the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 



Alum competes on ‘Race’ 
Thomas Wolfard, ‘02, faces challenges for chance at a million dollars 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
For Notre Dame alumnus Thomas Wolfard, this sea­son of CBS’ “The Amazing Race” is especially worth watching. 
Wolfard, a member of the Class of 2002, and his girl­friend, Jill Haney, are con­testants on the Emmy Award-winning show’s 17th season, which premiered Sunday night. 
“With our various travels, I really learned to keep an open mind at all times,” he said. “You don’t know where you’re going, so it’s really important that you stay open.” 
The Amazing Race is a reality game show that fol­lows teams of two around the world as they race against other teams in the hopes of winning $1 mil­lion. 
Wolfard and Haney, who met in Chicago four years ago through mutual friends, said they submitted a video explaining why they thought they would be per­fect and what made them qualified for the show. 
“We were definitely fans of ‘The Amazing Race’ before we were a part of it,” Wolfard said. “We were really lured by the overall experience and the chal­lenges that came with it.” 
The couple, who lives in California, ran several times a day — sometimes with backpacks — in prepa­ration for the physically demanding challenges, he said. 
They also knew that com­munication would be a big part of the competition. 
see RACE/page 5 



Astronaut alumni visits campus 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
Though they were just about to be launched into space, the flight crew sitting in the cockpit of the space shuttle Discovery was not too nervous just prior to their Aug. 28, 2009 launch, according to astronaut Kevin Ford. 
“Quite frankly, I don’t think anyone in our cockpit was nerv­ous. If you are nervous about anything, it’s about throwing the correct switch at the right time,” he said. “After being on the launch pad for three hours in a space suit, it is nice to be launched into space.” 
Ford, a 1982 graduate of Notre Dame with a degree in aerospace engineering, partici­pated in the flag presentation ceremony prior to this week­end’s football game between Notre Dame and Stanford. 
Ford said experiencing a new view of earth was one of the most memorable experiences of his 2009 trip to the International Space Station, which lasted almost fourteen days. 
“The coolest parts are that you have a view of the planet out of the window, and the zero gravi­ty,” he said. “Almost everything you do, gravity is somehow involved. Just doing little things involved a little forethought.” 
He said though zero gravity was an entertaining aspect of his time aboard the space staion, it did present its chal­lenges to the human body, espe­cially in terms of acclimating to the new conditions. 
see ASTRONAUT/page 6 





Notre Dame fans left seeing red 

By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
Though the Stanley Cup made its way onto the field Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium, its winning luck could not rub off on the Irish as Notre Dame fell to Stanford, 37-14. 
After two losses in a row that came down to the wire, Irish fans had tempered expectations prior to this weekend’s matchup. Sophomore Tylor Gauger said though he did not expect much before kickoff, the final score came as a bit of a shock. 
“I knew it was going to be a tough one to win but I did-n’t think we would lose that badly,” he said. “Stanford played smart but we also did not play up to par.” 
Stanford was able to post points largely on the strength of kicker Nate Whitaker, who transferred to Stanford from Notre Dame in 2008 nailed five field goals for the Cardinal Saturday. Stanford quarter­back Andrew Luck, who has been hyped as one of the top in the nation, threw two interceptions for his first turnovers of the year. 
Junior Melissa Guinan said it was difficult to watch the 
see GAME/page 6 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Wounded Warriors visit campus page 3  Papa Roach at Club Fever page 10  Men’s soccer wins page 16  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Monday, September 27, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Amanda Gray Molly Sammon Sam Stryker Matthew Robison Nicole Toczauer Andrew Owens 
Graphics Scene 
Melissa Kaduck Maija Gustin 
Photo Viewpoint 
Dan Jacobs Ren Brauweiler Sarah O’Connor 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

Question: Can you write a haiku about Notre Dame’s foot­ball team? Bobby: 
Irish games ‘010 We tailgate and watch the games I can’t find my friends 
Q: What is the best part of the beginning of fall? Bobby: Girls finally starting to wear sweatpants and sweatshirts to class again. God, I miss that. 
Q: 
What would you tell Brian Kelly if you could speak to him? Bobby: That his name is an anagram for llebiaknyr. 

Q: 
If you could suggest one change to The Observer, what would it be? Bobby: I don’t know. I usually just read the Irish Rover. 


Question: What is your favorite color and why? Bobby: Blue and gold, duh. And sometimes green. 

Bobby Sullivan 
junior 
Sorin 


SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer The Stanley Cup was displayed at Notre Dame Stadium Saturday during the Stanford game. Stanford went on to win 37-14. For more coverage see the Sports Section. 
OFFBEAT 

County hopes boring names stop sign theft 
DARIEN, Ga — A rural Georgia county is losing about 550 street signs a years to thieves and a commissioner says he has a solution: Make the names boring. 
McIntosh County Commissioner Mark Douglas serves a rural county about 60 miles south of Savannah. He says signs marking Green Acres, Boone’s Farm and Mary Jane Lane are fre­quently stolen. 
He suspects the thieves are targeting those signs because they share names with a popular TV series, a low-cost wine or, in the third case, a slang term for marijuana. 
Then there’s the stolen signs for Harmony Hill. Douglas figures the thieves just like the alliteration. 
It’s become a costly problem. County Manager Luther Smart says the area is paying $17,000 a year to replace the signs. 
Wyoming man doused in paint to avoid Taser 
CHEYENNE, Wyo. — A Cheyenne man who doused himself with white latex paint in hopes of avoiding a police Taser was hit with the stun gun anyway. 
The Taser chase hap­pened Sept. 16, when Cheyenne police went to Brian Mattert’s house on a domestic violence call. The Wyoming Tribune Eagle reports that when police arrived, Mattert thought they’d use a Taser on him, so he hastily covered him­self in paint and told offi­cers that if they shot him with the stun gun, he’d die. 
Officers told him the paint wouldn’t affect the Taser’s capability. According to police, Mattert scuffled with offi­cers and was hit with a Taser twice before officers handcuffed him. 
He faces several criminal charges. Police say the officers’ uniforms had to be cleaned. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 






Know someone chill for Monday’s Icebreaker? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
An International Summer Service Learning Program Information Session will be held today from 7 to 8 p.m. in the McNeill Library in Geddes Hall. All students are welcome to listen as past participants will discuss their experiences in the International Summer Service Learning Program (ISSLP). 
John Montgomery, CEO of Bridgeway Capital Management, will present the free lecture “Empowered Business Integrity” today from 7 to 9 p.m. in 129 DeBartolo Hall. The public is welcome to listen to this dis­cussion on business ethics. 
Get back on track with 
“Work Off Your Weekend” 
personal training packages” offered by RecSports. Every personal training package pur­chased by faculty, staff or stu­dents on any Monday until Nov. 29 will receive 10 percent off. 
Surya K. Mallapragada, the Stanley Professor in Interdisciplinary Engineering at Iowa State University, will present “Self-assembling Block Copolymers for Gene Delivery and Biomineralization” tomorrow at 3:30 p.m. Staff, students and faculty are welcome to lis­ten to her speak in Room 138 DeBartolo Hall. 
Tomorrow, the Snite Museum of Art will be show­ing a selection from the William McGraw Photography Collection. From 10 a.m. to 4 
p.m. the public is welcome to this free exhibition. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

THURSDAY FRIDAY 


Monday, September 27, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Wounded Warriors visit campus over weekend 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Chad Watson walked into the Oak Room above South Dining Hall last Friday evening as anyone else would. One foot after the other, each step as steady as the last. No one would guess that Watson lost his leg in Fallujah, Iraq, a few years ago when an explosive detonated under a Humvee he was driving. 
“I got involved with Wounded Warriors by origi­nally being a wounded warrior myself,” said Watson, now the area outreach coordinator for the Midwest for the Wounded Warrior Project. “I was a marine, and in 2006, I came back to a hospital and recov­ered there for 17 months. While I was there, I met the Wounded Warrior Project and they helped me out a lot.” 
Now, Watson works with the Wounded Warrior Project to help other soldiers transition to civilian life when they return home. 
“Not all service members have a lot of support. A lot of people help them in the hospi­tal, but they seem to forget what happens after,” he said. “The Wounded Warrior Project is here to honor and empower the veterans once they get back home.” 
The Wounded Warriors hold events where the veterans can simply enjoy themselves, as they have done by visiting Notre Dame. 
Patrick Concannon, presi­dent of the New York Fire Department Fire Family Transport Foundation and member of the Notre Dame class of 1977, said Wounded Warriors began visiting Notre Dame shortly after the terror­ist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Since then, they have made this trip annually for six years. 
These trips allow the veter­ans a break from the every­day, which often involves a dif­ficult transition back into soci­ety. Many times the most diffi-
South Bend Fire Department, the Elkhart Fire Department and the Notre Dame Fire Department. Working together, they brought, fed and housed every Wounded Warrior visit­ing campus over the weekend. On Friday, the Warriors cheered at the pep rally amidst a sea of green and enjoyed a banquet in the Oak Room above South Dining Hall. On Saturday they were escorted with lights and sirens to their tailgate party and then to the stadium for the game. The weekend closed with a 

c ult inj uries aren’t physical­ly noticeable. “A lot of these  “One of the things about soldiers is that they ask for nothing  par ty at C o n c a n n o n ’ s hom e in S o u th Bend.  
guys deal with post-traumatic stress disorder  but that they appreciate  Touring cam-pus, the W o u n d e d  
or  t r aum at ic  everything.”  Warriors Project  
he ad  in jury.  facilitators and  
What’s hap -p en ed is that they’re so close to these explo- Steve Grabowski lieutenant Chicago Fire Department  v eter ans said they have come to appreciate the stude n ts of  
sions that the  Notre  D ame.  
b ra in hits the  One specific case  

skull and bounces back,” showed itself when freshman Concannon said. “It’s a long Lauren Katen and the a cap-fight up to where they were pella group Halftime offered to before they went overseas.” perform for the warriors at 
Four months of work on this their banquet. specific event culminated this “I mean, it’s just unbeliev­weekend. Concannon said this able how the younger genera-event is particularly special tions are gathering to show because it is a giant venture their respect,” Cocannon said. between the Los Angeles Fire “We didn’t even have to ask. Department, the New York [Katen] and the choir offered City Fire Department, the to do it, which was really Chicago Fire Department, the great.” 
Concannon said he views actions like these gratefully, especially since he predicts that next year, there will be more Wounded Warriors from Afghanistan and Iraq coming home. He said with the way things are going, people will need to show respect to these soldiers more than ever. 
“Even when you display the American flag, they see that,” he said. “It’s little things like this that add up to a big impact.” 
To be even more proactive, he suggested checking out the Wounded Warrior website. Nick Hintz of the Elkhart Fire Department agreed with him, and encouraged everyone to come to events. 
“See if there’s something in the area. Just come out and thank them, support them and find out who they are,” Hintz said. “Ask if there’s anything you can do, which could be as simple as handing out water bottles or serving food.” 
The Wounded Warrior Project tries to not only help rehabilitate the men and women who return, but to also give them opportunities to enjoy a bit more of life, since they protect our freedom to do so. 
“The freedoms and things that we enjoy in this country have to be protected by some­body, and they really selflessly put themselves on the line for those freedoms,” said Steve Grabowski, lieutenant of the Chicago Fire Department. 
Watson said the time to show respect may occur at any time, even on campus. 
“They passed the post-9/11 GI Bill, so a lot of service members are coming back and going to universities. Make them fell welcome,” Watson said. “And every time you see a veteran, thank them, no matter what war. They’re the ones that allow us to do what we do — like go to college.” 
With the gift of freedom, which allows United States cit­izens to attend universities and enter careers of their choosing, Concannon suggest­ed Notre Dame students follow their hearts. Doing so, they can change the world for the better. 
“As a Notre Dame grad, I think that the Notre Dame stu­dents that go out into the world can all make the differ­ences, whether it’s me being in the fire department or working with the Haiti Relief Fund or anything,” he said. “Your degree, and eventually your life, can work toward that.” 
He said that every trip to Notre Dame includes a journey to the Grotto, where the veter­ans and firemen light candles and pray, having a chance to reflect. 
“One of the things about sol­diers is that they ask for noth­ing but that they appreciate everything,” Grabowski said. 

Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 27, 2010 



Saint Mary’s to host Senior Day 
By KRYSTINA HARCOURT 
News Writer 
High school seniors will get a taste of college life this year. 
Saint Mary’s College will be hosting Senior Preview Day, an event on campus for prospective students to attend with their families. This particular program is strictly for high school sen­iors to attend. 
Mona Carrandi de Bowe, Vice President for Enrollment Management, said there are four well-attended Senior Preview Days throughout the school year. 
“We have 50 students who have reserved spots for the program, some coming from as far away as Florida and Arizona,” Bowe said. “We have another program on Oct. 11, which is already full, and one more this semester on Nov. 15.” 
Invitations were sent to more than 20,000 high school seniors who were on Saint Mary’s mailing list at the end of August. 
“We also talk about the programs as we visit high schools and participate in college fairs, and promote the event in our website,” Bowe said. 
The seniors are matched with Saint Mary’s students, who serve as hostesses, eat­ing lunch with the high school students and showing them dorm life on campus. Since there were not volun­teers from every major, the College is taking a different approach to the way the event has been run in the past. 
“Visitors are matched with a current student, regardless of major, but faculty from their intended major or interest have opened their classrooms to our guests,” Bowe said. “This way, visi­tors can learn about their areas of interest from the students in the class and from the faculty, and learn about life at Saint Mary’s from her hostess.” 
Students will register and have some one-on-one time with admission counselors when they arrive on campus. Then they will meet their host students and attend a class that is aimed at their particular major. 
“Except for the class we schedule for them to attend, nothing in the morning is scripted,” Bowe said. “We want them to walk around and see a typical day in the life of a Saint Mary’s stu­dent.” 
Having them attend classes that interest them allows the seniors to ask questions of the students and teachers in those classes. 
While students are busy attending a class and walk­ing around with their host student, parents are busy with their own itinerary of events. 
Parents will learn all about the services and offices that encompass the Student Affairs division. 
“To help them understand the admission process at Saint Mary’s, we walk them through an interactive exer­cise, where they read appli­cations and in small groups, or ‘admission committees,’ they make admission deci­sions themselves,” Bowe said. 
They will also have an opportunity to learn informa­tion regarding admission cri­teria and financial aid infor­mation for their daughters. Staff members from the Career Crossings Office will provide data about gradu­ates, and they will receive a tour around campus from admission counselors. 
The seniors will rejoin their parents and host stu­dent for lunch at the Noble Family Dining Hall. 
After lunch, seniors will hear from the department of Academic Affairs and the Athletics department, and learn about study abroad programs offered through the College. 
Following this will be a Student Panel Question and Answer session in which stu­dents can raise any question concerning life on Saint Mary’s campus. This will allow the seniors to ask questions to students as opposed to faculty and staff. 
“The main purpose of Senior Preview Days is that visiting students learn about Saint Mary’s from our own students, not just from the Admission and Financial Aid staffs,” Bowe said. “At the end of the day, the hope is that these great women can see themselves as Belles, can put some of their anxiety about the college search process to rest, and decide to apply for admission for the Class of 2015.” 

Contact Krystina Harcourt at kharco1@saintmarys.edu 




Energy Week to raise awareness 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Students can grab free handouts and tips on energy awareness as they move through South Quad on the way to class Monday as part of Energy Week 2010. 
Energy Center student advi­sory board chair Jonathan Conway said the schedule for Energy Week will include lec­tures, movie screenings and tours of different campus buildings. 
“Honestly, the goal is just to make students aware about energy issues and sustainabili­ty on campus,” Conway said. “We try to have different events for different groups of students.” 
Barbara Villarosa, programs and research specialist at the University Energy Center, said the week of student-sponsored energy awareness will educate students on energy challenges. 
“What we like to do is plan a variety of events that will be attractive to all students,” Villarosa said. “Some students much prefer learning by lec­tures but others would rather enjoy a film.” 
The diverse range of events will center on a common theme of education. 
“We have kept the same mission [for Energy Week] each year,” Villarosa said. “We want to increase awareness across campus to provide edu­cational opportunities to learn about current energy issues and topics that are facing our nation today.” 
Energy Week 2010 began Friday on Irish Green with “Green is Gold” T-shirt sales and games to create aware­ness, Villarosa said. The Energy Expo on Saturday drew many science and engi­neering students despite the campus festivities for the foot­ball game day. 
Energy companies and organizations including General Electric (GE), Midwest ISO, Indiana Department of Environmental Management, Notre Dame’s Office of Sustainability and student environmental groups will dis­play their latest innovations on the quad Monday, according to the Energy Center website. 
“The quad display is proba­bly the most well attended because it is the most visible,” Villarosa said. “Last year over a thousand students stopped and talked to the different people outside.” 
Students can learn about making a different in the ener­gy field after graduation dur­ing the energy career lecture Tuesday with a representative from GE, Conway said. 
“The career lecture has always drawn quite a bit of interest,” Villarosa said. “The upperclassmen are interested to know what it takes to get out there in the energy field in their careers.” 
Wednesday night will fea­ture a lecture titled “The Future of Alternative Energy,” showcasing Notre Dame pro­fessors and their research conducted on campus, Villarosa said. 
“I think the lecture on Wednesday will be the most exciting event,” Conway said. “Notre Dame professors will be speaking about the future of energy.” 
Five professors from the College of Engineering and the College of Science will speak during the lecture on possible forms of alternative energy and their research here at Notre Dame. 
“We are providing opportu­nities to learn about energy awareness and highlighting the current energy research going on here at Notre Dame that is usually conducted behind-the-scenes,” Villarosa said. “Not everyone is aware of the outstanding develop­ments and innovations going on in this field.” 
The Energy Center will also screen “The 11th Hour” and “No Impact Man: The Documentary” during the week and sponsor tours of the campus power plant and Geddes Hall. 
“There are important prob­lems in the energy field that we need to work to find solu­tions for,” Conway said. “There are little things we can do every day in our dorm rooms and bigger things we can do as we move into the real world.” 
The week will close with Mass at 5 p.m. on Thursday in Holy Cross Chapel in Stinson-Remick Hall and a trivia night to test energy knowledge at Legend’s on Thursday evening, Conway said. 
A full schedule of events is available online at the Notre Dame Energy Center’s web­site. 
“This is a student-spon­sored event,” Villarosa said. “It is planned and organized and really executed by the Notre Dame Energy Center student advisory board with the support and help of all the students in GreeND.” 

Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 


Monday, September 27, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 


SMC-TV goes on the air, revamps office 
By CAROLYNN SMITH 
News Writer 
Withthenewschoolyear,Saint Mary’s students will see new content on channel two of their campus televisions, care of SMC­TV. 
“We are a station that wel­comes the creativity of all of Saint Mary’s students and facul­ty,” saidChristina Midgley gener­almanagerofSMC-TV. 
This fall SMC-TV was officially recognized as a club at Saint Mary’sforthefirsttime.Theclub has weekly meetings to plan shows, news and events that they will cover. There are many opportunities for Saint Mary’s students to get involved with SMC-TV, Midgley said. The offi­cial unveiling of the newly re­vamped station and its new con­tentwillbeOctober4. 
“You can be a reporter, writer, graphic design artist, producer, director, technician, make-up artist, fashion coordinator, event coordinator, photographer — the list goes on and on and on,” Midgley said. “If there is a job you want, we will make a place foryouatSMC-TV.” 
SMC-TVisastudentruntelevi­sionstation onSaint Mary’scam­pus. According to its website, The station was re-established in 2009. It previously broadcast contentfromclassesoncampus. 
Thisyearthestationhasadded contentandcommercials,aswell as lengthening their shows. This also means new programs, including weekly newscasts, interviews and coverage of both athletic and academic events. Lizzie Laughman was also named the station’s production manager. 
“She was the star of our show, ‘That’s Hot,’ last year. The show dove into celebrity gossip and news,” Midgley said. “Lizzie was greatonitandweareexcitedfor more.” 
SMC-TV has also updated its equipment and how it is used. The station, located in the base­ment of the library, has even been working with green screen technology. 
“The green screen will allow us to put our hosts on a different set for their shows and make them look like they are some­where other than our normal studio,” said Katelyn Grabarek, technical manager of SMC-TV. Grabarek is also a sports writer forTheObserver. 
Midgley said she is hoping the station can reach out to more clubs and organizations on cam­pus to help them get their mes­sageout. 
“There is a way for everyone on campus to be involved in this,” Midgley said. “I want SMC­TV to be everywhere and cover everything that the students and facultywanttosee.” 
Contact Carolynn Smith at csmith02@saintmarys.edu 


Race 
continued from page 1 
“We tend to get short-tempered with one another and we knew we were going to be on top of each other,” Wolfard said. “A lot of that has to do with the nature of the game though.” 
Wolfard and Haney also said they discovered through their travels that people who are less fortu­nate are often the happiest. 
“Just having this experi­ence on another level with your partner is awesome,” Haney said. 
Wolfard, a finance major who lived in Dillon Hall, said his study abroad expe­rience in Toledo, Spain, as well as his Notre Dame education prepared him for the show. 
“Notre Dame teaches you to be the best you can be and that’s something that has really stuck with me,” he said. “The large empha­sis on service and helping one another is definitely instilled in each student.” 
Based on his experience on the show, Wolfard said his biggest advice to stu­dents would be to take every opportunity that you have to see the world around you. 
“Travel the world with an open mind, knowing there are different cultures, and always give people the ben­efit of the doubt,” he said. 
Contact Emily Schrank at 
eschrank@nd.edu 


page 6 The Observer  NEWS Monday, September 27, 2010 


Game 
continued from page 1 
Junior Melissa Guinan said it was difficult to watch the Irish not capitalize on those chances. 
“It is a shame we weren’t able to turn the big turnovers into something,” she said. 
Sophomore Brian Morell said though a loss to such a prestigious opponent was dis­appointing, the defense looked sharp against Luck. 
“It was disappointing, but not completely unexpected. Stanford was the highest ranked team we have faced this season,” he said. “We did well against Luck, we just didn’t have any offense.” 
At 1-3, Notre Dame is off to its worst start since 2007. Sophomore Catherine Flatley said expectations going into the season may have been unrealistic and to evaluate the team on such a small sample would be misleading. 
“Obviously the loss was really disappointing, but everyone seemed to hope it would go a lot better than it did,” she said. “People just do not seem thrilled relative to our expectations this year. However, I don’t know if you can judge everything [first­year Irish] coach [Brian] Kelly has done in just a few games.” 
Senior David Riehm echoed Flatley’s statements, and said he believes Kelly will be able to turn the Irish around soon enough 
“I guess it would have been cool if we came out and won, but we have a long way to go largely because we’ve been down the last three years,” he said. “We played like a team that has a lot of work to do. Kelly has shown that he can bring us out of that.” 
Senior Alex Sajben said the loss was particularly tough for seniors because of the performance of the team over the last few years, but that Kelly represents hope for the future. 
“It is tough because since freshman year our particular class has had a lot more downs than ups,” she said. “I think honestly, Stanford is a very good team. I’d love to be here next year when coach Kelly settles in. He is a very good coach.” 
Stanford scored 18 points in the fourth quarter. As the gap in scoring between the Cardinal and the Irish widened, Notre Dame Stadium began to empty out early. 
“It was really sad to see Notre Dame Stadium empty out. Everyone seemed just quiet and disappointed,” Guinan said. “Thank good­ness we scored a touchdown in the fourth quarter. It was a nice reward for the people who stayed.” 
Sajben said the behavior of the fans was more disen­chanting to her than the play of Notre Dame on the field. 
“I didn’t come out disap­pointed in the team, I came out disappointed in the fans,” she said. “I’ve lived through all the disappointment but I stayed there the whole game because that is what you do as fans.” 
Despite three difficult losses in a row, Riehm said he was optimistic about this week­end’s matchup against Boston College. 
“Boston College got shut out this weekend, so I believe we can keep fighting because that is what we do.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 



Astronaut 
continued from page 1 
“Your inner ear is in tune with gravity. You are made for this planet, and when you leave it, it is confusing for your head and your eyes,” Ford said. 
Ford said it takes years to train to be certified as a flight-ready astronaut. Once he was assigned to his flight, he had a little over a year to train with his team. 
“A big part of training is astronaut candidate training, which lasts about a year and a half to two years. You get some hands on and leadership train­ing,” he said. “They also teach you some technical training that you will need to fly a space shuttle. After completing this you are assignable to a space flight.” 
Ford says it took him a while to be accepted into the astro­naut-training program, which he began in August of 2000. 
“I applied three times before I was accepted. I still have the rejection letters at home,” he said. 
Prior to his time at NASA, Ford was a member of the Air Force for 18 years — some­thing he said was a near life­long dream. 
“I knew I wanted to fly when I was 13 or 14. I wanted to be an Air Force pilot and maybe be an airline pilot down the road,” he said. “I took flight lessons when I was 16, and worked at a grocery store to pay for it, so that should tell you how much I wanted it.” 
While at Notre Dame, Ford was a member of the Air Force ROTC and lived in Morrissey Manor. He said that Notre Dame prepared him in ways for his career and training that no other school could. 
“It’s a special place to get a good feel for other people’s point of view. The fact that Notre Dame has this real diverse attitude provides well,” he said. “Patience is required in training, and you are essen­tially a student for something that has risk associated with it.” 
He also said Notre Dame’s course requirements helped make him a stronger student by forcing him to take classes he normally would not take, which has paid off in his career as an astronaut. 
“Being a small community and with a great liberal arts coordination, I was able to take a lot of social sciences that my colleagues weren’t able to take,” he said. 
Ford, who is scheduled to return to the International Space Station in October of 2012, said he believes the drive to succeed is what enabled him to achieve his dreams, and is the key to suc­cess for Notre Dame students. 
“Consider your life and edu­cational experiences. If you have a dream or goal, persist­ence is a virtue. Don’t be afraid to get out there,” he said. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
Abortion pill stirs debate 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Ten years ago, after long and bitter debate, the 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved use of the abortion pill by American women. It is hailed as safe and effective, but new turmoil may lie aheadasthepill’sproponentscon­siderusingtelemedicinetomakeit moreavailable. 
Already, a pioneering telemedi­cine program in Iowa has provid­ed the pill to about 1,900 women 
— with a doctor able to consult with a faraway patient in a video teleconference, then unlock a con­tainerbyremotecontroltorelease the pill. To the alarm of anti-abor­tion activists,abortionprovidersin other states are pondering whether similar programs would enable them to serve more women,especiallyinruralareas. 
“There are many affiliates that are carefully considering this option, within the confines of their state laws,” said Dr. Vanessa Cullins, vice president for medical affairs of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America, the nation’sleadingabortionprovider. 
Initially known as RU-486, the pill was introduced in France in 1988, and anti-abortion activists fought doggedly over 12 years to keep it out of the U.S. The FDA finally gave its OK on Sept. 28, 2000, and nearly 1.4 million American women have used the pillsincethen. 
Affording women more privacy than a surgical abortion, the pill marketed as Mifeprex now accounts for about one-quarter of 
U.S. abortions performed in the first nine weeks of pregnancy and about 15 percent of all U.S. abor­tions. In 2008, about 184,000 American women used the pill — up from 55,000 in 2001 even though the overall number of U.S. abortionswasn’trising. 


Monday, September 27, 2010 The Observer  NEWS page 7 
ISRAEL 

Israeli building slowdown ends 
Associated Press 
REVAVA, West Bank — Jewish settlers released balloons and broke ground on a kindergarten in celebration Sunday as a 10­month construction slowdown expired, while U.S. and Israeli leaders tried to figure out how to keep Palestinians from walking out of peace talks over the end of therestrictions. 
After the slowdown ran out at midnight, there was no Palestinian statement about the future of the talks. The Palestinians asked for an Oct. 4 meeting of an Arab League body to discuss the situation, possibly giving diplomats an extra week to workoutacompromise. 
Minutes after the expiration, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu called on the Palestinians not to walk away, but instead to maintain constant con­tact “to achieve a historic frame­work accord within a year.” In a statement, Netanyahu said his “intention to achieve peace is genuine.” 
Palestinians have questioned whether they can make peace with Netanyahu, known as a hard-liner. 
Israelisettlerswerenotwaiting, celebrating the end of the slow­down and planning to send bull­dozers into action in two places in theWestBankearlyMonday. 
In Revava, a settlement deep in the West Bank, about 2,000 activists released 2,000 balloons in the blue and white of the Israeli flag at sundown Sunday. The balloons were meant to sym­bolize the 2,000 apartments that settlers say are ready to be built immediately. 
“Today it’s over and we will do everything we can to make sure it never happens again,” settler leader Dani Dayan told the crowd. “We return with new energy and a new determination topopulatethisland.” 
It was unclear what how the official end of the slowdown would affect construction. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has already signaled future settlement construction will be kept to a minimum, in contrast to relatively unfettered housing activity of past Israeli governments. 


The Palestinians have said they will quit the negotiations if Israel resumes building, though President Mahmoud Abbas said in a published interview Sunday in the pan-Arabic daily al-Hayat that he would consult with Arab partners first to weigh his options. 
Speaking in Paris Sunday, Abbas said, “There is only one choice in front of Israel: either peaceorsettlements.” 
The settlers’ festivities went ahead despite Netanyahu’s call for them to show restraint as the curbs are lifted. Palestinians oppose all settlements built on territories they claim for a future state, and renewed building could endanger negotiations launched early this month by the Obama administration. 
The deadlock over settlements has created the first crisis in the negotiations, and U.S. mediators raced to bridge the gap between the Israelis and Palestinians. But adealwasfarfromcertain. 
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton spoke Sunday with Netanyahu and former British Prime Minister Tony Blair, the representative of the “Quartet” of Mideast peacemak­ers, State Department spokesman 
P.J. Crowley said. He also said 
U.S. special Mideast peace envoy George Mitchell and Jeffrey Feltman, the State Department’s chief Mideast official, conferred with Palestinian negotiator Saeb Erekat Sunday afternoon in New York. 
“We keep pushing for the talks tocontinue,” Crowleysaid. 
Abbas faces intense internal pressure from his supporters not to relax his conditions. Also, the rival Islamic Hamas, which con­trols Gaza, opposes peace talks withIsraelinprinciple. 
Israeli police said Palestinian gunmen shot and lightly wounded an Israeli motorist in Hebron, close to where a deadly shooting earlier this month killed four Israelisettlers. 
Netanyahu, under pressure from pro-settler hard-liners in his governingcoalition,said hewould not extend the slowdown on con­struction he imposed 10 months ago. The curbs, which expire at midnight, prevented new housing starts in the West Bank, though the government allowed thou­sands of units already under con­structiontobefinished. 
A similar, but undeclared, slow­down has also been in place in east Jerusalem, the area of the holy city claimed by the Palestinians. 
The deadline had not yet expired when several dozen set­tlers groundbreaking ceremony for a new kindergarten Sunday in theKiryatNetafimsettlement. 
“For 10 months, you have been treated as second-class citizens,” Danny Danon, a pro-settler law­maker in Netanyahu’s Likud Party, said at the ceremony. “Today, we return to build in all thelandofIsrael.” 
In nearby Revava, a settlement of about 130 Orthodox Jewish families in the rocky hills of the northern West Bank, the crowd included young activists, men wearing trademark knit skullcaps favored by religious settlers and foreign supporters from Norway andChina. 
Gunman at party kills five students 
Associated Press 
EAST ORANGE, N.J. — A Seton Hall University student who attended an off-campus house party at which five peo­ple were shot said the gunman stood on her back as she lay on the floor and didn’t appear to be targeting anyone during the chaos she describedas “hell.” 
“He was just shooting he had no intended target,” said a text message from the woman, whose friend was the only per­son killed. 
The woman spoke Sunday by BlackBerry instant messenger on condition of anonymity because she fearedfor her safe­ty while the shooter remained at large. She said she was too upset to talk over the phone. 
She described the Friday night party, which lasted into early Saturday, as a “typical fraternity party” with at least 100 people at the privately owned rowhouse. 
Students said the shooter was kicked out of the party when he refused to pay the cover charge. 
The woman said she heard a fight erupt before the man was thrown out. Seconds later, she said, he returned with a hand­gun and started shooting as chaos erupted. 
“Everyone was scrambling n stampeding. People were jump­ing out the two windows n all I cud smell was smoke n blood,” the woman wrote. “The next thing I knew I opened my eyes n saw hell..blood n justpanic.” 
The woman said was on the floor when the gunman stepped on her back and shot her friend Jessica Moore, a 19-year-old honors student majoring in psy­chology. Moore, who was from Disputanta, Va., died later at a hospital. 
Authorities had not released the names of the four wounded people, whose injuries weren’t considered life-threatening. 
Two of the injured are 19­year-old women who go to Seton Hall, and one is a 25­year-old man who attends the New Jersey Institute of Technology. The other is a 20­year-old man from New York who is not astudent. 
East Orange police were fol­lowing several leads but had not identified a suspect, spokesman Andrew Di Elmo said. 
On Sunday, police had set up an electronic sign, the kind usu­ally used to tell drivers of detours, to ask for help solving the house party shooting, which occurred just after midnight. The message advertised a $10,000 reward for information leading to anarrest. 
Long defends self to congregation 
Associated Press 
LITHONIA, Ga. — Casting himself as the Bible’s ultimate underdog, Bishop Eddie Long went before thousands of faith­ful supporters at his megachurch Sunday and prom­ised to fight accusations that he lured four young men into sex­ual relationships. 
“I feel like David against Goliath. But Igot five rocks, and I haven’t thrown one yet,” Long said in his first public remarks since his accusers filed lawsuits last week claiming he abused his “spiritual authority.” He stopped short of denying the allegations but implied he was wrongedby them. 
“I have never in my life por­trayed myself as a perfect man. But I am not the man that’s being portrayed on the televi­sion. That’s not me. That is not me,” he said. 
Long’s brief addresses to the congregation at New Birth Missionary Baptist Church were met with thunderous applause and an outpouring of support during services that were equal parts part rock concert and pep rally. The sanctuary was nearly filled to its 10,000-seat capacity for both the 8 a.m. and 11 a.m. services. Many lined up two hours before the doors of the church opened. 
Long became one of the coun­try’s most powerful independ­ent church leaders over the last 20 years, turning a suburban Atlanta congregation of 150 to a 25,000-member powerhouse with a $50 million cathedral and a roster of parishioners that includes athletes, enter­tainers and politicians. And there was almost no sign Sunday that his flock wanted to turnhimaway. 
Followers prayed, sang and embraced one another as they rallied around their senior pas­tor. Wearing a cream-colored suit as he strode into the church sanctuary hand-in-hand with his wife, Vanessa, Long paused to soakinthe adoration. 
During the second service, however, one young man in a blue shirt stood up and shout­ed: “We want to know the truth, man!” He was quickly escorted outand did not return. 
After the service, many expressed unwavering support for their leader. 
“We know and we love Bishop,” said Annie Cannon, a seven-year member of New Birth. “We love our place of worship. My son goes to school here. We doeverything here.” 
It is unclear whether Long faces any risk of being removed by his church’s board, but the allegations at the very least guarantee months of scrutiny as thelawsuits move forward. 
Long is a father of four who has been an outspoken oppo­nent of gay marriage and whose church has counseled gay members to become straight. Two young men say he groomed them for sexual rela­tionships when they were enrolled in the church’s LongFellows Youth Academy, a program that taught teens about sexual and financial dis­cipline. Two other young men ­one of whom attended a satel­lite church in Charlotte, N.C. ­have made similar claims. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Monday, September 27, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Caffeine culture 

If you’re anything like my friends and me, Starbucks downs your flex points just about as fast as you down its tall vanilla lattes. 
I don’t even drink coffee just to stay awake. There are so many other Sara Felsenstein great reasons to grab a cup: to fill News an awkward Production break between Editor classes, to catch up with friends, to procrastinate studying and to keep warm when the temperature goes subzero. 
We live in a caffeine culture, and the ridiculously long coffee lines between classes prove that. You can even tell a lot about a person based on their caf­feine preference. 
We have the Waddicks types, who linger at the coveted red booths, read­ing Chaucer or discussing philosophy, slowly sipping large pumpkin spice coffees. 
You know someone’s got a long day when their tumbler is filled to the brim with Grab and Go coffee and secured in the net pocket of a pro­truding backpack. 
And then there are those who are perpetually holding Starbucks — never straight coffee but always with an excess of adjectives like nonfat, extra whip, unsweetened, light ice and no foam. 
I may be stereotyping, but at Notre Dame getting coffee is a more social thing for girls than for guys. You are much more likely to see four PW girls in LaFun gossiping over coffee, than to see four Siegfried guys crowded around a Burger King table, chatting and sipping their nonfat lattes. 
On the other hand, unlike guys, girls don’t typically purchase energy drinks to have fun with their friends. Let’s take the case of Five-Hour Energy shots. Girls never brag about taking them. In fact, most girls will down them in the privacy of a Subway booth or in their own rooms. But when guys pop open that small bottle, they have to broadcast it to whoever they pass by. It’s always like, “Dude, I’m so ridiculously awake now, I just took a Five-Hour Energy. Love that stuff.” 
Addiction? Possibly. Problem? Not really. 
But the Five-Hour Energy shot poured into the coffee? Yes, I’ve seen it done. Now that’s a problem. 
At Notre Dame, we like to think that while we “play hard” on the week­ends, during the weekdays we are studious, diligent and in control. However, our coffee drinking habits are oddly reminiscent of our weekend drinking habits. Why else would we order a double shot of espresso on a Monday morning, or claim that “one more cup” of coffee won’t hurt us? Why else would we suffer through headaches at 11 a.m., just because we didn’t have that morning cup? 
Whether you’re a social coffee drinker, a caffeine addict, or, gasp, you “don’t like coffee,” there’s no denying that we live in a caffeine cul­ture. 
Of course, there are those out there who claim to survive without any caf­feine at all. On good, old-fashioned sleep, they say. I still think there has got to be some method to that mad­ness, but for now, more power to them. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 
To cheer or not to cheer? 
I arrived home from The Backer early Sunday morning, sat down in front of my computer, and knew that I had to break the only established rule I had for this column. I promised myself I would not write about 
Kevin Kimberly 
anything Notre Dame football 

Bursting the
until the end of 
Bubble

the season, but Saturday struck a chord that I had to vent about. You see, I have been one of those “do every cheer, sing every Victory March, yell during every defensive play” stu­dents the past three years. I love the glory in having an aisle seat that pro­vides me the ability to jump wildly when the Irish step up and make a play. Ask anyone who even vaguely knows me and they will confirm that my mood on Sundays and more than likely into the week is determined by the result on Saturday. But for the first time since the Georgia Tech-Notre Dame game on September 1, 2007, I became quiet. A silent observ­er, if you will. With the exception of the Victory March and Alma Mater, I said very few words, uttered no cheers, and attempted to lash out as little as possible at some horrible play calls, terrible officiating and poor per­formances. 
Why now, you might ask — I have endured brutal home losses to Syracuse and UConn, a 3-9 season, the Navy win streak end at home, another home loss to Navy on top of that and too many down-to-the-wire games turned sour. What could be worse? On Saturday, it all clicked. I watched a Notre Dame team take the field that had the potential and ability to right the ship and get back on track despite Stanford’s rank and offensive power. But what did I receive? I saw a 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
team that overall, for the first team this season, looked like it had no heart or will to win. The passion was missing, the desire to fight was gone and any semblance of playing hard was quite hard to find. All of this com­ing from a team and a head coach that promised the Irish would play four full quarters with every ounce of intensity that was possible. 
It is not the “L” on the record that upsets me most; it is the loss of sub­stance. I am a firm believer in the simple saying, “You get what you give.” The expectations set by this team for how they would play this year were quite different from those in the recent past. Though both the Michigan and Michigan State games left me devastated, they did not leave me ultimately disappointed and let­down because I saw a team fight to the very end. Mistakes will be made, but they are not always indicative of giving up. If Brian Kelly and the Irish are going to talk about battling each and every week, fighting and playing as hard as they can, and not backing down, I look forward to seeing it translate to the field. 
However, there is something to be said of the recent Viewpoints concern­ing the upperclassmen’s ability to sup­port our team. I have read them all carefully, and each side makes a good point. Though the underclassmen are very misguided in expressing what may seemingly look like the upper­classmen’s disinterest as an abuse, I must add a more fair criticism for everyone, especially upperclassmen. Do you come to the game to socialize and talk about your drunken antics of the night before all the while looking for more alcohol that you clearly do not need or do you come to the game to watch football? Drunk girl who kept falling on my friend and I the whole game asking what the score was, did you really feel the need to pay $200+ to attend the games? Tool who went up and down the aisle the whole game looking for alcohol, how about you stay home and drink freely? The list goes on. Cheering or not, at least watch the game! And to the underclassmen, I will give you respect for your cheering when you decide to cease doing the Florida State chop after every first down (and yes, this is the second time I mentioned that this year in a column.) 
Please understand I am not jumping off the Brian Kelly bandwagon; in fact, it took me a little more time than most to jump aboard. This upcoming Saturday will be the first game I can­not attend this season, but I will be there in front of my TV just as I usual­ly am while at the game. The only dif­ference is I am yelling, cheering and screaming at a piece of technology. Kyle Rudolph tweeted shortly after the game on Saturday, “Sorry Irish fans. Were gunna get this thing right. I have all the faith in my teammates and coaches.” Though Rudolph is not one of the guys I have seen lose any of the above qualities, I hope he’s right for some of his fellow players. All I am asking is that the “underated, better than 1-3, talent-filled” Notre Dame Fighting Irish play with the heart and passion to show why I truly believe those descriptors of this year’s team. The Class of 2007 and I deserve to get what we have given. 
Kevin Kimberly is a senior majoring in psychology and political science. He is eligible to run for President in 2024 and welcomes campaign slogans and ideas at kkimberl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“It seems the misfortune of one can plow a deeper furrow in the heartthan the misfortune of millions.” 
Kirby Larson 
U.S. author 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The only courage that matters isthe kind that gets you from onemoment to the next.” 
Mignon McLaughlin
U.S. journalist 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Monday, September 27, 2010 page 9 
Jersey pride: not an oxymoron 
I’m probably one of the only gradu­ate students at Notre Dame who studies the art and culture of New Jersey. (Seriously. I go to confer­ences and deliver papers on this stuff.) 
Given that, in Lawrence the past month, Rozanski The Observer has published three Guest articles on the Column Garden State — Chris Allen’s “A Shore Thing,” Natalia Tamzoke’s “Jersey Shore: I Love Hate You” and Maija Gustin’s “Jersey Explosion” — I thought I’d add my voice to the chorus of people who want your readers to know that there really is more to New Jersey than fist pumping, body shots and bail hearings. 
Here’s a fact: New Jersey is arguably one of the most important centers of regional imagination in the United States. Poetry-wise, Walt Whitman drafted most of “Leaves of Grass” in Camden; William Carlos Williams lived (and died) in Rutherford, but not before he wrote “Paterson” and took a young poet named Allen Ginsberg (also a Jersey boy) under his wing; Amiri Baraka, a Newark native, has served as Poet Laureate of New Jersey; Joe Ceravolo spent most of his lamenta­bly short life in Jersey; and Louise Gluck has rewritten Homer’s “Odyssey” by way of our infamous 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Catholics in Britain 
Monday, Sept. 20 I was afforded the the Church of England, was taken as a rare opportunity of a personalized tour sign of a reconciliation that began nearly of Westminster Abbey in London. Not a century ago as Roman Catholics try to only did I examine the grave sites of reconcile with their Anglican brethren. Mary Queen of Scots, Sir Isaac Newton Fundamental issues concerning the ordi­and Charles Darwin, but also something nation of women and the use of birth much more powerful. What made the control divide the faiths, but the Pope tour even more amazing was that the focused on the “deep friendship” current Pope, Benedict XVI, had been at between himself and the Archbishop and the Abbey just days before in his first the similarities between both Churches. visit to the United Kingdom, and first It was a powerful moment to kneel at papal visit to the UK since 1982. the prayer bench in front of the shrine of 
In the weeks leading up to the Pope’s Edward the Confessor at the very same visit, the British media was engulfed in a spot the Pope and the Archbishop political and religious firestorm as pun-prayed only a few days before. I got to dits raged back and forth criticizing and sit in the same seat the Pope sat in. Just defending the Pope, the Vatican and the gazed up at the ornate gothic pillars of Catholic faith. The current papacy has the Abbey and could only think in won-been tarnished by the recent priest sexu-der. I managed to steal yellow and white al abuse allegations that rocked the rose petals to keep as a momento, and I Vatican earlier this year. Pope Benedict pressed them in my planner. To be that XVI has been demonized and criticized close to both heads of the two largest in the British press for appearing to fail Churches in the world was to be close to to take sufficient action to address the God, and the ethereal splendor of the matter with some individuals calling for Abbey only heightened the sensation. It his arrest for crimes against humanity is an event that I may never see again in and others attacking the Pope’s conser-my lifetime, and it is one I will carry with vative approach to the allegations. me. 
Regardless of the swirling controversy, the Pope’s visit to Britain was history in Nick Weido the making. His meeting and prayer, junior both public and private, with the abroad Archbishop of Canterbury, the head of Sep. 25 

UWIRE 

The English language is full of com­mon phrases that just don’t go together. Jumbo shrimp. Boneless ribs. Almost exactly. I propose a new addition to the oxymoron list: Internet privacy. 
Every day, there are new articles Jade addressing the McDowell issue, and this week’s lineup The Daily includes quite a Universe variety. A South Carolina policeman was fired after pic­tures of bikini-clad girls draped over his patrol car surfaced on Facebook. A class action lawsuit has been filed over the use of “cookies” to monitor online shoppers’ choices. A 14-year-old girl posted her birthday party as a public Facebook “event” and invited 15 friends to join, only to receive more than 21,000 RSVPs, mostly from complete strangers twice her age. 
When Facebook changed their privacy settings earlier this year, they were condemned from every direction by people angry that they had misunder-Meadowlands. 
In terms of novelists, we can lay claim to Philip Roth’s searingly bril­liant (and dirty) mind, as well as Pultizer Prize winners like Richard Ford and Junot Diaz. 
Cinematically, New Jersey has inspired the likes of Kevin Smith and Zach Braff, as well as Todd Solondz and Hal Hartley, Jr. And let’s not for­get the visual arts: Man Ray clocked time in Ridgefield; Robert Smithson got his start exploring the state’s industrial wastelands and pre-fab diners; and Tony Smith, in a cele­brated piece for Artforum, compared driving on the NJ Turnpike to the end of art itself. 
Oh, and our music? Sure, there’s Springsteen and Bon Jovi — but don’t forget Patti Smith, the Feelies (who were a major influence on REM), Yo La Tengo (you probably heard them on The Gilmore Girls), and recent notables like Titus Andronicus, Real Estate and Memory Tapes. 
That’s not exhaustive list, but hopefully you readers get the point: the phrase “Jersey pride” is far from any oxymoron. 
Lawrence Rozanski is a graduate student. He can be reached at lrozansk@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Embrace the city 
Football weekends, dorm events, Urban Plunge offers us the ability to fall break, Halloween, Thanksgiving do something about urban poverty. and spending time with friends make Every year, 180 students choose to fall a special and exciting time at see the face of their city in a new Notre Dame. As we bring out winter light. They participate in a 48-hour coats for the 60 degree weather, we immersion in one of over 40 cities find ourselves dreading the imminent that offer an Urban Plunge around end of fall and start of winter. the country. In addition to the immer-However, winter is full of many won-sion, they attend four classes on derful opportunities as well, such as urban poverty, which complement the the first snowball fight on the quad, experiential component of the course. seasonal Starbucks drinks, the holi-The Urban Plunge application day spirit and the chance to partici-becomes available on the CSC website pate in the Center for Social Concerns this week. Take a minute away from (CSC) Urban Plunge. Facebook to check it out and consider 
In the middle of our preoccupation what it would be like to really with the changing weather, football, embrace the city this year: to police officers and impossible exams, embrace the poor, the marginalized the Urban Plunge offers a unique and the forgotten; to embrace the message to students: embrace the friendships, the awakening and the city. Last week, the Census Bureau solidarity; to embrace the potential announced that in 2009, 43.6 million for change. Take advantage of this people were living in poverty, up from meaningful and memorable experi­
39.8 million in 2008. The official ence, and make this winter break one poverty rate in 2009 (14.3%, up from that will leave a lasting impression. 13.2% in 2008) was the highest poverty rate since 1994. Heather Hyland 
It is difficult to comprehend the senior harsh reality experienced by millions off campus of people living in poverty around the Colleen King country when we live on such a beau-senior tiful campus. Our cities are hurting, Cavanaugh Hall yet they often go unnoticed. The Sep. 26 

Too much information 
stood the new settings and their cell phone numbers and wild party photos were suddenly available to the world. 
The same thing happened when Google released its social networking feature Buzz. People lashed out when they forgot to set their privacy settings and later realized their “buzzes” were available to their entire Gmail contact list. They were awarded part of an $8.5 million lawsuit settlement in court. 
I wasn’t worried. I came up with a genius plan to thwart those privacy-stealing social networks: I didn’t post anything on there I wasn’t OK with the rest of the world seeing. 
It’s called the World Wide Web for a reason. If you find yourself in trouble over something you posted on the Internet, I don’t care how good you thought your privacy settings were; you have only yourself to blame. 
I’m not saying this because I believe privacy isn’t important. I only let friends see my Facebook profile, includ­ing my information page, and I regular­ly reject friend requests from people I see more as acquaintances than friends. I don’t really want Joe from Nigeria to steal my identity or start stalking me. 
But even with these settings, I would never post anything to Facebook, my blog or any other Internet forum that I would be horrified if someone outside my group of friends saw. 
Maybe my potential boss can’t see my profile, but then again, what if one of my friends turns out to be his niece? If the anecdotal evidence is true, hun­dreds of smart college grads have lost a promising job opportunity because their profile picture included a can of beer or their status updates were an ode to the lameness of their former boss. 
When I was a resident assistant in the dorms I knew of more than one fresh­man that ended up in serious trouble because they friended their RA on Facebook and then posted videos of themselves jumping out of the second-story windows overlooking the lobby. 
Self control in posting applies to the little things, too. Discretion is a virtue when it comes to the Internet. 
Go ahead, use Facebook to share pho­tos of your vacation with your friends. Announce your engagement. Catch up with your kindergarten crush. But just because Facebook invented the Places app doesn’t mean your friends need a running update on where you are all day. We don’t need to know about every fight you have with your boyfriend, or see that really embarrassing video of you when you got your wisdom teeth out. You never know how people might use these pieces of information against you. 
It is time for us to stop blaming the Internet giants and start taking respon­sibility for our own privacy. A little restraint will go a long way. 
This article first appeared in the Sept. 23 edition of The Daily Universe, the daily publication serv­ing Brigham Young University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Monday, September 27, 2010 

Backstage Grill venue holds Thursdays” and “Funky Trapt, formed by high school By CLAIRE STEPHENS about three hundred people Fridays.” friends and fans of heavy rock, Scene Writer and is a quieter bar area. “You get to see a live national advanced from suburban gigs Students considering attending act,” Mann said in an interview in Southern California to open-This Wednesday, California the concert should try to buy with The Observer. “Usually ing for names like Papa Roach, rock will bring the heat wave them in advance since this par-bands like Papa Roach come Spike 1000 and Dredg. After 
o South Bend when Papa ticular band is popular in the through town only so often, high school, the band got Roach and Trapt perform at area — Mann said he would be around the area Morris has the together on weekends to Club Fever. Papa Roach surprised if the concert doesn’t shows or you don’t get to see rehearse and perform shows brings music from their new sell out. Mann said Club Fever bands you’d like to see.” while attending different col-album “Time for normally hosts hard rock acts Coming from punk and rap leges in California. Eventually, Annihilation,” released in like Saliva and Seven Dust and influences, Papa Roach’s musi-each member left school and August, and Trapt will be per-would like to bring in more cal style has developed more moved to Los Angeles. Trapt’s forming songs from their new country shows, as well as a few into hard rock, leaning towards albums include “Trapt” (2002), album “No Apologies,” which more comedy shows down the heavy metal. Active since 1993, “Someone in Control” (2005), comes out 
the band’s seven stu-“Only Through Pain” (2008) Oct. 12. Both 
dio albums include and their upcoming release bands origi­
“Old Friends From “No Apologies.” nated in 
Young Years” (1997), California, 
“Infest” (2000), 
Around the

“Lovehatetragedy” experience of 
have the (2002), “Getting Away 
Bend 

with Murder” (2004), albums 
multiple “The Paramour 
What:Papa Roach and 

Sessions” (2006), under their 
Trapt 

“Metamorphosis”belts and 
Where:Club Fever (222 S. 
(2009) and their new have new 
Michigan St.) at the
album “Time for music ahead 
Backstage Grill
Annihilation” (2010).
n their 
When:Wednesday Sept. 
The band’s local careers to 
29, 7 p.m.; doors open at 6 
success from their bring to the 
p.m.

first full-length album stage. 
How Much:$31 in
led to gigs with The con-
advance, $35 at the door 
Suicidal Tendencies, cert takes 
Learn More:574-232­

place at the Sevendust and Power 
0222, www.clubfever.biz 

Backstage Grill at Club Fever 5000 as well as rap acts later 
Wednesday night. in their career, such as According to Vick Mann, Club Ludacris and Xzibit on an tour Contact Claire Stephens at Fever’s manager, the with Eminem. cstephe4@nd.edu 

Observer Graphic | MELISSA KADUCK 

IRISH INSIDER 
THE 

Monday, September 27, 2010 observer Notre Dame 14, Stanford 37 
Completely Cardinal 
Stanford dominates Irish in all aspects of game for 37-14 victory 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
Following two weeks of last-minute heartbreak for Notre Dame, No. 9 Stanford eliminated any doubt about Saturday’s out­come long before the end of the game. 
Quarterback Andrew Luck wore down the Irish defense dur­ing the Cardinal’s 37-14 victory. The win, Stanford’s second straight against Notre Dame, left Irish coach Brian Kelly and his team searching for optimism in the wake of a 1-3 start. 
“Our defense battled,” Kelly said. “Not making any excuses for our kids, but we played three, four really good football teams, physical teams, and our kids have battled each and every week. We came up short this week. But they’re not going anywhere. They’re going to be back next week and they’re going to strap it back up and they’re going to fight and play as hard as they can. We’re going to build this program to where it needs to be.” 
The scoring opened early in the first quarter off an uncharacteris­tic fumble by Stanford punt returner Doug Baldwin, who muffed a punt near the 20-yard line and allowed Irish sophomore Zeke Motta to recover, giving the Irish great field position. 

The five-play drive included three plays in which senior run­ning back Armando Allen received the snap directly in the ‘Wildcat’ formation. Following zero coverage,” Harbaugh said. to capitalize on their second inter-pass on the first play of the ensu-dence in the atmosphere of our that, the drive stalled on the five-“[Luck] bought some time and ception of Luck, by senior corner-ing drive and returned it for a team and I can see the drive in yard line after junior tight end threw a heck of a ball to Fleener. back Darrin Walls off a deflection, touchdown to put the game out of my teammates eyes. It’s what will Kyle Rudolph fell one yard short Fleener looked to me like he had as they followed it with a three-reach at 34-6. Marecic became keep us going and eventually of the first down on a completion about a second and a half of hang and-out. Crist completed only the first player in the Division I we’ll come out on top.” from junior quarterback Dayne time up in the air and was able to three passes in the third quarter, Football Bowl Subdivision to The Irish were led defensively Crist. Rudolph struggled through-make a heck of a catch.” a small glimpse of a day in which score a touchdown on offense and by a career day from sophomore out the game, with only one Following the touchdown pass he struggled to find options down-defense in the same game since middle linebacker Manti Te’o, reception for one yard, after com-to Fleener, the expected battle of field while completing 25 of 44 Utah’s Eric Weddle did it in 2006. who posted 21 tackles against the ing into the game as the leading high-powered offenses settled passing attempts for 304 yards. “I’ve called him a lot of things,” Cardinal. Irish receiver. down into a field goal affair, as “They were dropping a lot of Harbaugh said of Marecic. “He’s a “He played with a will today. He 
“[We] really wanted to get pen-Stanford kicker Nate Whitaker guys. They had eight guys in cov-perfect football player. Just never had a look on his face, a tough­etration, do a good job up front posted three second-quarter field erage a whole bunch,” Crist said. been around a guy like this in 30 ness to him that he hasn’t dis-knocking them back, chipping the goals to Irish senior David “You don’t want to sit and make some years of playing college, pro played since he’s been a player tight end, Rudolph, trying to keep Ruffer’s one to close the first half excuses, but tip your hat to football and in coaching. He does here at Notre Dame,” Kelly said. him without the ability to get free with the score 16-6. Whitaker, Stanford. They had some good everything right.” “Today is one of those watershed access into our defense and our who played for the Irish from calls out there. We just got to find Following Marecic’s unlikely moments for a defensive player secondary,” Cardinal coach Jim 2006-2007 as a walk-on before answers and do a better job in feat, the Irish offense began to that we can model.” Harbaugh said. “I thought we did transferring, went 5-for-5 on field practice finding those answers.” click, as Notre Dame covered 80 Despite the best efforts of Te’o a good job containing him. He’s a goals on the day. Despite the Irish struggles yards in less than two minutes for and the rest of the Irish defense, heck of a player.” “I like to think I proved a little through three quarters, they a three-yard touchdown reception Stanford played better on 
Senior kicker David Ruffer con-something to the people out here stood within two touchdowns by sophomore receiver Theo Saturday, Kelly said. verted a 22-yard field goal to give today,” Whitaker said. “I felt like I going into the fourth when the Riddick, but it was not nearly “Stanford deserved today’s Notre Dame its only lead of the missed some opportunities when I game turned quickly on a note-enough to catch up with Stanford, win,” Kelly said. “That is a fine game. was out here at Notre Dame and worthy series of plays for and Kelly and his squad were left football team.” 
Luck then led the Cardinal (4-0) it was nice to come out here and Stanford’s senior two-way sensa-to deal with a defeat for the third The Irish will seek to end their down the field for 79 yards in 10 show people what I am capable tion Owen Marecic. Marecic, the straight week. losing streak as they travel to plays, ending with a touchdown of.” Cardinal starter at fullback and “We are still going to work Chestnut Hill, Mass. for a pass to tight end Coby Fleener in Both teams struggled to put inside linebacker, put Stanford up hard. Our goal hasn’t changed. matchup with Boston College the face of a strong Notre Dame points on the board in the third 27-6 with a one-yard run into the We still want to win games and Saturday. blitz. quarter, as an early Whitaker end zone with eight minutes to we will fight until the end. Our 
“They brought everybody, field goal provided the only scor-play, then took the field at line-hard work will pay off for us,” Contact Chris Allen at except for four. Zero blitz, played ing in the period. The Irish failed backer and intercepted Crist’s Riddick said. “There is a confi-callen10@nd.edu 

player of the game stat of the game play of the game quote of the game 
Owen Marecic 44 yards rushing Marecic’s 20-yard interception return 
“Obviously right now we’re very upset

Cardinal fullback/outside linebacker for a touchdown in the fourth quarter 
with where we’re at. It’s about having

The Irish only managed 44 yards short memories in this game.” Marecic recorded two touchdowns — rushing against the Cardinal, on Marecic’s second score in 13 seconds one a one-yard run and one a 20-only 23 attempts for a 1.9 yards put the score at 34-6 with less than Dayne Crist yard interception return. per carry average. eight minutes left in the game. Irish quarterback 



page 2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 27, 2010 
report card 
C+ B­B­C­B­C+ 
B+ C-

quarterbacks: Dayne Crist may have tal­lied more than 300 yards passing, but when you attempt 44 passes, the yards will be there, but the offense still fal­tered when it mattered. 
running backs: Armando Allen and Jonas Gray may have only managed 61 yards on 19 carries, but the fact that they only had 19 attempts is not their fault. Robert Hughes added 43 yards via screens. 
receivers: Kyle Rudolph was not a factor Saturday, which led to the offense’s stagna­tion, but Michael Floyd, Theo Riddick and John Goodman all played well, with 240 yards between the three of them. 
offensive line: Stanford sacked Crist three times, and hurried or rushed him out of the pocket far many more times than that. The Irish line also failed at creat­ing holes for the running game. 
defensive line: The Irish did not put any pressure on Cardinal quarterback Andrew Luck, but they did mostly keep the dual-threat in check on the ground, containing him in the pocket. 
linebackers: Manti Te’o made 21 tackles, a career high, but he was the lone bright spot among this group. The fault for Stanford’s ease in converting third downs lies with the second level of the defense. 
defensive backs: Notre Dame may have 
intercepted Luck twice, but otherwise 
the Irish secondary was far too passive 
in its defending. Luck’s targets rarely 
had to fight for contested balls. 
special teams: David Ruffer did as David 
Ruffer does, make field goals, extending 
his streak of perfection to 12. The Irish 
also forced a fumble on the first punt of 
the game, the best punt of the day. 
coaching: Kelly’s clock management at the end of the first half essentially gift­ed Stanford three points, and by aban­doning the running game, he allowed Stanford to focus soley on the pass. 
2.37 

overall: Across the board, Notre Dame was sloppy and inconsis­tent, and failed to show mch of a competitive spirit against the Cardinal. 
adding up the numbers 
Stanford kicker Nate Whitaker, a transfer from Notre Dame, outscored ND on his own with 
17 
17 points via five field goals and two PATs. 

21 
Manti Te’o recorded 21 tackles, eight of which were solo. The career high number accounted for nearly one-fourth of Notre Dame’s 86 tackles. 
Dayne Crist was sacked three times for a loss of 16 yards, including once that forced a fum­
16 
ble inside Stanford’s red zone. 

11 
Notre Dame has now lost its last 11 games against opponents ranked in the top-20. Stanford was ranked No. 16 Saturday. 
Notre Dame only converted 31 percent of its third downs (4-for-13). 
31 

12 
After converting his 40-yard field goal in overtime, David Ruffer has made all 12 of his career field goal attempts. 
Michael Floyd’s 110 yards receiving gave him his 10th career 100-yard game, third 
110 
in Notre Dame history. 

4:29 
In the second quarter, Notre Dame only held the ball for 4:29, while Stanford used its 10:31 to convert two field goals. 
After a pair of close losses to Michigan and Michigan State, I kept hearing two comments I didn’t buy at the time, one of which I mentioned in my pregame prediction in Friday’s Irish Insider. (I’d say “I told you so,” but I still picked a Notre Dame win, so that wouldn’t really be fair.) 
The first: Notre Dame was a play or two away from beating both the Wolverines and the Spartans, and with a lucky break and a for-

Matt Gamber 

tunate bounce, the Irish could 
Sports Writer 

have been 3-0. So, once Notre Dame got one of those opportunities, the team would show that it is, in fact, much improved over a year ago. 
Well, the Irish got a few of those breaks Saturday, as Stanford muffed a punt deep in its own territory and the Irish made two interceptions off tipped passes that could just as easily have fallen harmlessly to the ground. 
Of course, the circumstances of each game are different, and the Irish will always accept any fortune that comes their way. But after Saturday, it’s clear Notre Dame is more than just a lucky bounce away from beating, and being, one of that nation’s best teams. 
The second cliché we heard after three weeks: The Irish just need to learn how to win. 
I understand the point that a confi­dent attitude is an extremely impor­tant trait for a college football team to possess. I also understand that after going 3-9, 7-6 and 6-6 in consecutive years, Notre Dame needs to alter the program’s direction and redevelop a winning tradition. 
The Irish need to know how to win, but how the heck are they supposed to “learn?” I’ve thought about this ques­tion for hours over the past three weeks, and the only reasonable answer I’ve come up with is that to learn how to win, Notre Dame just needs to win. 
What else can the coaches or players do? There’s no “on” button. There’s no crash course, online tutorial or how-to guide that can teach these guys how to win. I know Kelly is doing his best (and I’m confident he’s doing a good job) of delivering his message and explaining what he believes his team needs to do to win. But the way fans use the term, you’d think this is something that’s just going to click, and we’ll immediately see the difference on the field. 
That’s not to say I don’t believe the Irish can get there — in fact, I do, and I think we’re in the early stages of that process. But it is a process, and devel­oping that attitude takes time. Knowing how to win is undoubtedly important, and I think it’s fairly clear that Notre Dame struggles with that to some degree. 
But let’s be honest: That’s not why the Irish have lost the last three Saturdays. There’s plenty of actual on-field evidence that suggests Notre Dame, while needing a few bounces and the knowledge of how to win, has plenty of other things to work on. 
Start with the turnover on downs at midfield early in the fourth quarter, which you could call the turning point, but that I would call a microcosm, of the game. You could question the play calls on third and fourth down, or even suggest the Irish should have punted. I won’t. 
The bottom line is that good teams convert in those high-pressure, short yardage situations. No. 1 Alabama did late in the game against Arkansas to secure a win Saturday. If you’re going to become one of those teams, you bet­ter be able to get a yard when you need it most. 
Notre Dame isn’t there yet. 
The same could be said for a num­ber of other specific plays and situa­tions in Saturday’s game. In short, the Irish were dismantled in all three facets of the game. The offense could-n’t run the ball or attack the middle of the field through the air, which Stanford did at will. The defense couldn’t get off the field on third downs and put no pressure on Cardinal quarterback Andrew Luck. The special teams didn’t generate a field position advantage with either punts or kick returns. 
I know this column sounds negative, but I want to end by reiterating my point that I think the Irish can get there. The foundation is being built by the current coaches and players, who believe success is coming. I believe it too, and for each negative I’ve pre­sented, I could name several things I’ve liked about this team’s play thus far. 
Admittedly, I was as guilty as anyone in expecting a complete 180-turn­around from the get-go. Despite a 1-2 start, several of those expectations remained intact because of what we had seen. 
If anything, the Stanford loss can serve as a reminder that this team isn’t there yet, and in truth, it’s not as close as we may have believed. But they’re coming. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 



Irish closer, but not close enough 
Monday, September 27, 2010 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Crist’s development shows in loss 

TOM YOUNG/The Observer 

Junior quarterback Dayne Crists turns to hand the ball off to senior running back Armando Allen during Notre Dame’s loss to Stanford Saturday. Irish offense struggled to gain yards consistently as Crist continues to develop as a starter. 
physical attributes needed to be a success-concern the offense looks to correct in 
By CHRIS MASOUD ful passer, he acknowledged that the men-practice this week. 
Sports Writer tal has yet to catch up to the physical. Rudolph’s absence did create an oppor­
“You have to have a greater sense of tunity for junior wide receiver John 
Following a 28-24 loss to Michigan two urgency, even if you just got to grind it out Goodman, who took full advantage, tally-weeks ago, Irish coach Brian Kelly said down the field,” Crist said. “You have to ing five catches for 59 yards. After only fans would be watching the development have a greater sense of urgency on third appearing as an emergency punt returner of junior quarterback Dayne Crist over the down, greater sense of urgency protecting against Michigan State, Kelly attributed course of an entire season. the ball, taking what they give you.” Goodman’s emergence to a strong week of 
Crist followed his coach’s statement by Kelly credited a number of defensive practice. throwing for 369 yards and 4 touchdowns schemes employed by the Cardinal to keep “Practicing better, catching the football, against Michigan State — a clear step for-his offense in check, including blitzes by holding on to it, finishing plays — got a lot ward in Kelly’s eyes. the outside linebackers and dropping eight of confidence when he was at Michigan 
Yet after Crist threw for 304 yards (170 defensive backs in coverage. Yet unwilling State, catching punts late in the game,” of which came in the final quarter) and a to make excuses, Kelly added that a num-Kelly said. “Confidence is about doing.” touchdown Saturday in a loss to Stanford, ber of poor blocks by the Irish running As the Irish prepare for Boston College Kelly reaffirmed that the development will backs and sloppy routes by the receivers this weekend, Crist said he looks forward be a progression, not a simple transforma-gave Crist additional problems to deal to utilizing Goodman as an additional tion. with. threat on offense. While he leaves the X’s 
“You know, every day he’s growing,” While much of the responsibility falls on and O’s to the coaching staff, he said he Kelly said. “There’s new things he’s con-Crirst to find the end zone, the Cardinal takes full responsibility for preparing the fronted with. He’s learning, but it is a also effectively shut down the Irish run-offense for another road game in a hostile process. This is the maturation of a quar-ning attack. Senior Armando Allen and environment — a task he said is easier terback right before your eyes. We’re junior Jonas Gray combined for 61 yards, than it looks. going to have some growing pains along an ineffective complement to a struggling “We have guys that want to win, guys the way.” passing game. that know we can win, and we have the 
Although Crist’s counterpart, Stanford “We have to give Stanford’s defense potential to win the rest of the games on junior quarterback Andrew Luck, threw credit for today,” Allen said. “They came our schedule,” Crist said. “There’s really for only 238 yards and one touchdown, the ready and played a physical game today.” that belief in the locker room — it goes all individual stat-line doesn’t tell the whole Junior tight end Kyle Rudolph was also the way through. There’s no guys in ques­story. The Cardinal captain led his team to not a factor, finishing with one catch for tion right now of where we’re going. 11 of 16 third down conversions and a one yard of total offense. Crist said that the That’s a great feeling.” perfect seven scores in seven red zone Cardinal defensive backs gave special opportunities. attention to Rudolph and did an effective Contact Chris Masoud at 
While Crist may have displayed the job of limiting his ability to get open — a cmasoud@nd.edu 
Te’o sets personal high with 21 tackles 
The 11 conversions from the key,” Irish senior cornerback “Stepfan Taylor, in particu-
By CHRIS ALLEN 

Cardinal were the most Darrin Walls said. lar. The running back 
Sports Writer 

allowed by the Irish defense seemed to get stronger as he this season, besting the pre-Luck running out went along. None of our 
Irish sophomore linebacker vious high of six conversions Cardinal quarterback backs had that many carries Manti Te’o set a career-high allowed against Purdue. Andrew Luck recorded four … that was kind of unchar­with 21 tackles in the loss. “Anytime you convert on a rushes totaling 23 yards on tered waters for our young Teo’s previous career-high third down, all of the kudos the day. The Irish have now backs.” was set Sept. 11 against goes to the offensive line,” surrendered 291 yards rush-Michigan with 13 tackles Stanford junior quarterback ing to opposing quarterbacks Legends Trophy stays in after recording 63 tackles Andrew Luck said. “Whether on the season. Stanford’s Palo Alto during the 2009 campaign. its third and short and leading rusher was sopho-Stanford’s victory puts the 
“We were in the right they’re pounding the ball or more running back Stepfan all-time series tally at 17-8, gaps,” Te’o said. “I don’t third and long and they’re Taylor, whose 28 carries and gives the Cardinal their count my tackles, I just do bringing the pressure, I were a career high. Taylor third win in 13 contests at the best I can. That is about think the credit goes to bore most of the rushing Notre Dame Stadium. The it. It doesn’t matter if I have them.” load after fellow sophomore winner of the rivalry game a hundred [tackles,] if we The 11 conversions regis-running back Tyler Gaffney receives the Legends Trophy, don’t win.” tered by Stanford on went down with an injury which was presented for the 
Saturday were the most by early in the game. first time in 1989. Notre Third-down woes an Irish opponent since “Well, I mean, we really Dame is 13-6 in games 
The Irish lost the battle on Michigan’s 12 in 2003. needed to grind some meat. I where the Legends Trophy is third down Saturday, as “We weren’t able to get thought [the running backs] awarded. Stanford finished 11-for-15 them off [the field] on third did a heck of a job,” Cardinal Contact Chris Allen at on third down conversions. downs, and that was the coach Jim Harbaugh said. callen10@nd.edu 
scoring summary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
N D  3  3  0  8  14  
STAN  10  6  3  18  37  

First quarter 
Notre Dame 3, Stanford 0 
David Ruffer 22-yd field goal with 8:11 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 16 yards, 2:39 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 3, Stanford 7 
Coby Fleener 16-yd pass from Andrew Luck (Nate Whitaker kick) with 3:37 remaining. Drive: 10 plays, 79 yards, 4:34 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 3, Stanford 10 
Whitaker 24-yd field goal with 2:08 remaining. Drive: 4 plays, 9 yards, 1:22 elapsed. 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 6, Stanford 10 
Ruffer 40-yd field goal with 13:22 remaining. Drive: 12 plays, 61 yards, 3:46 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 6, Stanford 13 
Whitaker 41-yd field goal with 4:54 remaining. Drive: 16 plays, 58 yards, 8:28 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 6, Stanford 16 
Whitaker 41-yd field goal with 4:54 remaining. Drive: 16 plays, 58 yards, 8:28 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 6, Stanford 19 
Whitaker 33-yd field goal with 10:44 remaining. Drive: 10 plays, 49 yards, 4:16 elapsed. 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 6, Stanford 27 
Owen Marecic 1-yd run (Zach Ertz pass from Luck) with 7:58 remaining. Drive: 11 plays, 49 yards, 5:37 elapsed 
Notre Dame 6, Stanford 34 
Marecic 20-yd interception return (Whitaker kick) with 7:45 remaining. 
Notre Dame 14, Stanford 34 
Theo Riddick 3-yd pass from Dayne Crist (Armando Allen rush) with 6:01 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 80 yards, 1:44 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 14, Stanford 37 
Whitaker 29-yd field goal with 4:14 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 21 yards, 1:47 elapsed. 
statistics 
rushing yards 

passing yards 

Time of Possession 


passing  
Crist  25-44-304  Luck  19-32-238  
rushing  
Allen  15-49  Taylor  28-114  
Gray  4-12  Luck  4-23  
Crist  4- -17  Amanam  6-19  
receiving  
Floyd  8-110  Fleener  4-57  
Riddick  7-71  Reuland  3-48  
Goodman  5-59  Whalen  3-37  
Hughes  2-43  Taylor  2-31  


page 4 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 27, 2010 



Completely out of hand 
After two games that came down to the wire, Notre Dame and Stanford steered away from late-game drama Saturday. The Cardinal took at 16-6 lead into halftime, and, carried by 
two touchdowns from Owen Marecic, prevailed by a final score of 37-14. Marecic, Stanford’s starting fullback and inside linebacker, 
rushed for a one-yard touchdown with 7:58 left in the game. On the next play from scrimmage, Marecic intercepted Dayne Crist’s pass and returned it 26 yards for another touchdown, broadening the Cardinal lead to 34-14. 
Crist ended the game with 304 passing yards, 110 of which were to junior receiver Michael Floyd, and one touchdown — a six-yard reception by Theo Riddick with 
6:01 left in the game. 





Clockwise from top: Robert Hughes, Armando Allen and Emeka Nwankwo sing the Alma Mater; Irish coach Brian Kelly argues a call with the Pac-10 officials; safety Jamoris Slaughter returns an interception as cornerback Robert Blanton clears a path; Michael Floyd tries to escape from a Stanford defender; David Ruffer converts one of his two field goals. 
The Observer 

Scene
Monday, September 27, 2010 page 11 

By COURTNEY COX 
Scene Writer 

Name: Shelley Chen Spotted: On South Quad 
Wearing a simple black tank top, a slate skirt with detailed beading on the hem and a sleek purse. 
She wanted to embrace the nice day and the sun by wearing askirt. 


Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 
MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Monday, September 27, 2010 
MLB 

Despite loss to Mets, Phillies clinch playoff spot 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — The going-nowhere New York Mets made sure the Philadelphia Phillies took their champagne on the road. 
The Phillies, however, are at least assured of going to the playoffs. 
Carlos Beltran hit a pair of homers, David Wright also connected and the Mets beat Philadelphia 7-3 on Sunday, preventing the Phillies from clinching their fourth straight NL East title at home. 
“The champagne was on ice and the fans here are very passionate. I’m glad we were able to get it done,” Mets man­ager Jerry Manuel said. 
The two-time defending NL champions came in needing a win and a loss by Atlanta to secure the division crown. The Braves lost 4-2 to Washington, dropping Philadelphia’s magic number to one. 
The Phillies later became the first NL to lock up a playoff spot this year when San Diego lost to Cincinnati 12-2. With 93 wins, they’re certain of at least a wild-card slot. 
Chase Utley hit a three-run homer for the Phillies, who will finish the season on the road with three games at Washington and three at Atlanta. 
“It would’ve been nice if our fans could’ve seen us,” Philadelphia manager Charlie Manuel said. 
The Mets roughed up Cole Hamels (12-11) again. Hamels allowed five runs and nine hits in four-plus innings, falling to 0-4 against New York this year. The lefty had been dominant recently. He gave up just four runs in his previous six starts, a span of 43 2-3 innings. 
“Just one of those days where I wasn’t able to locate and be consistent,” Hamels said. “Sometimes it happens. With the way I’ve been pitch­ing, I know I can correct it and get it back on track.” 
Manny Acosta (3-1) tossed 1 1-3 innings of scoreless relief to earn the win. Mets starter Pat Misch had a 5-0 lead going into the fifth, but couldn’t fin­ish the inning. He allowed three runs and seven hits in 4 2-3 innings to remain 0-4. 
The Phillies are 45-17 since July 21, when they trailed Atlanta by seven games. They are 19-5 in September and have a six-game lead over the Braves. 
The crowd of 45,302 marked the 123rd straight sellout at Citizens Bank Park. Fans came hoping to watch the Phillies win the division at home for the fourth straight year, but now they’ll have to wait for the playoffs to break out those “Fightin’ Phils” rally towels. 
“They’re going to celebrate sooner or later,” Beltran said. “We just wanted to win some games here.” 
Trailing 5-0 in the fifth, the Phillies got back in it when Utley went deep with two outs to cut the deficit to two runs. Ryan Howard followed with a double, chasing Misch. 
A pair of outstanding defen­sive plays by Mets outfielders saved two runs. Beltran made a diving grab on pinch-hitter Ross Gload’s drive to left-cen­ter to leave a runner on third in the sixth. Left fielder Nick Evans made a sliding catch on Howard’s shallow fly to strand a runner at second in the sev­enth. 
Jimmy Rollins, sidelined since Sept. 8 with a hamstring injury, got a standing ovation when he came up as a pinch hitter representing the tying run in the eighth. He grounded out against Elmer Dessens to end the inning. 
Wright gave New York a 1-0 lead, driving his 26th homer deep into the seats in left in the second. 
The Mets scored three in the fourth to take a 4-0 lead. Angel Pagan walked leading off and went to third on Ike Davis’ single. Joaquin Arias then hit a slow roller near the mound, but Pagan got caught in a rundown and was tagged out. 
With two outs and the bases loaded, Jose Reyes drove in a run with an infield single to make it 2-0. Evans followed with a two-run double for a 4­0 lead. Right fielder Jayson Werth slipped chasing Evans’ looper and the ball skipped past him. Reyes was thrown out trying to score on the hit to end the inning. 
Beltran connected leading off the fifth to make it 5-0, ending Hamels’ day. He hit a two-run shot off Ryan Madson in the ninth. 
The Phillies twice had a run­ner on third with less than two outs, but didn’t get a run. Raul Ibanez doubled and moved to third on a groundout in the sixth, but Wilson Valdez hit a tapper to the mound and Gload got robbed by Beltran. 

With runners on first and third and one out in the fourth, Carlos Ruiz trotted to first after ball three. He was called back to the plate and ground­ed into a double play. 
NFL 

Falcons top defending champion Saints in OT 
another thrilling victory in hand had a 72-yard punt return to set tossed it back to long-snapper Brees, who was 30 of 38 for 
Associated Press 

when Drew Brees drove New up Jeremy Shockey’s short TD Jason Kyle, who tapped toes on 365 yards and three TDs, drove 
Orleans to the Atlanta 11-yard catch on New Orleans’ first both feet down like a receiver the Saints into game-tying field 
NEW ORLEANS — A charmed line in overtime. Instead, drive. just inside the sideline. goal range late in regulation, in run by the defending champion Hartley hooked his 29-yard kick The game was a back-and-New Orleans converted the part by converting a fourth-and-Saints ended with a shanked to the left for his third miss this forth affair that one would turnover into Moore’s second 1 pass to Shockey for a 6-yard field goal by the same specialist season. expect from longtime rivals who TD on a 16-yard catch and run gain. Hartley made that kick, who went down in New Orleans Matt Ryan passed for 228 appear to be the best teams in to put New Orleans ahead 21-17 from 32 yards, with four sec-lore with clutch kicks last sea-yards and touchdowns of 13 the NFC South. There were late in the third quarter. onds left in the fourth quarter. son. yards to Tony Gonzalez and 22 bizarre blunders and big plays, Fortunately for Atlanta, Ryan Last season, Hartley sent the 
Garrett Hartley missed an yards to Roddy White to give the including an unusual turnover rarely made a mistake and rou-Saints to the franchise’s first overtime chip shot, then was Falcons (2-1) their second by Atlanta on a Saints punt in tinely exhibited uncanny Super Bowl with an overtime left to watch the Falcons rush straight win. Michael Turner the third quarter. instincts, decisiveness and accu-game-winner in the NFC title the field after his counterpart, added 30 carries for 114 yards Thomas Morstead’s punt hit racy in the clutch. game, made three field goals Matt Bryant, drilled a 46-yard and a 1-yard TD plunge. Atlanta’s Thomas DeCoud on On the Falcons’ 80-yard scor-during the Super Bowl, and also field goal with 1:55 left in the Lance Moore had a pair of TD the heel as it came down near ing drive to take the lead in the clinched the Saints’ Week 2 win extra period to lift the Atlanta catches for New Orleans (2-1), the sideline and bounced fourth quarter, Ryan converted at San Francisco last Monday Falcons to a 27-24 victory on including a career-long 80 straight up. Rookie tight end a third-and-10 with a pass to night with a 37-yard, partially Sunday. yarder. He finished with six Jimmy Graham grabbed it and, Gonzalez and his scoring strike blocked field goal at the end of 
The Saints appeared to have catches for 149 yards and also just before falling out of bounds, to White came on third-and-6. regulation. 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819  Bears. Beets. Battlestar Galactica.  Jim Halpert: Can I have a late  
FOR SALE  PERSONAL  or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND's website at:  Dwight Schrute: Bears do not. What is going on?! What are  check-out? Dwight Schrute: I'll have to talk to  Dwight Schrute: Eighty thousand dollars.  
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu  you doing?!  the manager.  
Math Tutoring Algebra, Calculus,  If you or someone you care about  ———————————————  ———————————————  Jim Halpert: You're not the manag­ ———————————————  
GRE 574-229-4657  has been sexually assaulted, we  Quotes from The Office:  Dwight Schrute: Welcome to the  er, even in your own fantasy?  Michael Scott: Toby is in HR, which  
———————————————  can help. For more information, visit  Jim Halpert: Question. What kind  Hotel Hell. Check-in time in now,  Dwight Schrute: I'm the owne the  technically means he works for cor- 
Notre Dame's website:  of bear is best?  check-out time is never.  co-owner. With Satan!  porate, so he's really not a part of  
FOR RENT  http://csap.nd.edu ———————————————  Dwight Schrute: That's a ridiculous question.  Jim Halpert: Does my room have cable?  Jim Halpert: Okay, just so I under­stand it. In your wildest fantasy, you  our family. Also, he's divorced, so he's really not a part of his family.  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't  Jim Halpert: False. Black bear.  Dwight Schrute: No. And the sheets  are in hell and you are co-running a  ———————————————  
Spacious Upper-Level Apartment  go it alone. Notre Dame has many  Dwight Schrute: That's debatable.  are made of fire.  bed and breakfast with the devil.  Dwight Schrute: Garbage can be  
Near Airport, on Busline 1 Bdr.  resources in place to assist you. If  There are basically two schools of  Jim Halpert: Can I change rooms?  Dwight Schrute: But I haven't told  very helpful. Okay? He's a useful  
$550, All Util Included Call Mike  you or someone you love needs  thought- Dwight Schrute: Sorry we're all  you my salary yet.  cat. He killed an entire family of  
574-250-0191  confidential support or assistance,  Jim Halpert: Fact. Bears eat beets.  booked up. Hell convention in town.  Jim Halpert: Go.  racoons. Look at him.  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Monday, September 27, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
NFL 

Rams snap losing streak; Colts corral Broncos 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS — Steven Jackson watched from the sideline as the St. Louis Rams ended a 14-game home losing streak. Somehow they did not seem to miss their offensive star. 
Backup running back Kenneth Darby scored the go-ahead touchdown in the third quarter and rookie quarterback Sam Bradford got his first NFL victory as the Rams overcame an injury to Jackson in a 30-16 win over the Washington Redskins on Sunday. 
The Rams (1-2) won for only the second time in 29 games overall behind a strong start and even stronger finish, with the biggest offensive showing under second-year coach Steve Spagnuolo. Bradford, the No. 1 overall pick in April, was 23 for 37 for 235 yards and one touch­down and one interception for the Rams, spreading the ball to nine receivers. 
St. Louis, which lost its first two games by a total of six points, topped its previous best of 23 points under Spagnuolo in a five-point loss to the Saints last November. 
The Rams led 14-0 after their first two scores in the first quar­ter this season, weathered a 13­point surge by the Redskins plus a blocked field goal at the end of the half, and played keep-away after the break. They stymied the Redskins defensively despite going with a pair of backup safeties much of the game, and got impressive work from the reserve running backs after Jackson was sidelined with a groin injury in the second quar­ter. 
Darby had 49 yards on 14 car­ries and Keith Toston had 22 yards on 11 carries. Jackson fin­ished with 58 yards on 10 car­ries including a 42-yard score for the game’s first touchdown. 
Santana Moss had six recep­tions for 124 yards and a score for Washington (1-2), but also lost a fumble in the first half that led to a touchdown for St. Louis. Donovan McNabb, who gets his homecoming game at Philadelphia next week, was 19 for 32 for 236 yards with one touchdown and an interception. 
The pick by Bradley Fletcher at the Washington 41 with 3:39 to play helped the Rams finish it off with Josh Brown’s third field goal of the second half. 
Safety Oshiomoghe Atogwe injured his thigh in the second quarter and the other safety, Craig Dahl, was inactive with a concussion. There was no letup with James Butler and Darian Stewart in the lineup. 
Darby, who entered the game with 2 yards on three carries, gave the Rams the lead for good at 21-16 on a 12-yard run mid­way through the third quarter. He gained 24 yards on four straight carries to open the fourth quarter, helping set up a field goal. 
The Redskins’ first turnover of the year, a fumble by Moss, helped the Rams go up 14-0 midway through the first quar­ter. St. Louis blew a shot to stretch that cushion when Dominique Curry blocked stand-in punter Graham Gano’s first career effort to give the Rams possession at the Washington 26, but Bradford’s overthrown pass was intercepted by Kareem Moore the next play. 
The Redskins were oppor­tunistic the rest of the half, with McNabb hitting Moss for a 21­yard touchdown the next play after Mardy Gilyard’s lost fumble on a kickoff return, and Phillip Daniels blocking Brown’s 21­yard field-goal attempt at the end of the half, keeping the Rams’ lead at 14-13. 
Gano’s third field goal of the game, a 21-yarder, put the Redskins in front for the first time early in the third quarter. 
Colts 27, Broncos 13 
There was no slowing down Peyton Manning, even without two of his favorite receivers. 
Manning threw for three touchdowns despite the absence of Anthony Gonzalez and Pierre Garcon, and the Indianapolis Colts beat the crestfallen Denver Broncos Sunday. 
The Broncos (1-2) were play­ing with heavy hearts following the death of teammate Kenny McKinley. 
Kyle Orton threw for a career-best 476 yards on 37-of-57 pass­ing and the Broncos outgained the Colts (2-1) by more than 100 yards. But they failed to get into the end zone on five trips inside the 20-yard line, settling for two field goals and turning over the ball on downs three times. 
Colts receiver Austin Collie caught 12 passes for 171 yards and two touchdowns in place of Garcon (hamstring), and Blair White, playing because Gonzalez has a high ankle sprain, caught a touchdown pass one day after being promoted from the prac­tice squad. 
Neither team ran the ball well, the Colts for 40 yards and the Broncos 47. 
Collie’s 28-yard grab on third-and 15 from the Colts 17 gave Manning some breathing room and they hooked up again for a 23-yard score with 4½ minutes left to cap the scoring. 

Broncos rookie Demaryius Thomas couldn’t hold on for a 20-yard TD and came down hard on his left arm and appeared to hurt either his shoulder or wrist. 
Orton’s 48-yard touchdown toss to Brandon Lloyd brought Denver to 13-10 in the third quarter, but Manning countered with a 9-yard TD to White, an undrafted rookie from Michigan State. 
Orton and Lloyd connected for 61 yards on their next posses­sion, but that drive stalled in the red zone and Matt Prater’s 33­yard field goal made it 20-13. 
Lloyd caught six passes for a career-high 169 yards and Jabar Gaffney hauled in 12 passes for 140 yards for the Broncos. Denver moved up and down the field but couldn’t do much in the red zone, where confusion and indecision by Orton and his receivers reigned. 
There was a moment of silence before kickoff in honor of McKinley, who died Monday at his home near team headquar­ters. Sheriff’s department inves­tigators believe McKinley killed himself with a .45-caliber pistol because he was depressed fol­lowing his second straight sea­son-ending knee surgery. 
The Broncos, who also wore No. 11 decals on their helmets, held a private memorial service with eight of McKinley’s family members Friday at their training facility. Several members of the organization and some players will fly to his funeral Monday in Georgia. 
The Colts led 13-3 at halftime after capitalizing on two rookie mistakes by the Broncos. 


MLB 
Cain takes no-hitter into eighth, Giants win 
Associated Press 
DENVER — Matt Cain car­ried a no-hitter into the eighth inning and finished the job himself, pitching the San Francisco Giants to a 4-2 vic­tory over the fading Colorado Rockies on Sunday. 
It was a timely performance for the stingy Giants, who began the day a half-game behind first-place San Diego in the NL West. The Rockies, who have dropped six of seven, lost ground in the divi­sion race but remained 3½ games back of Atlanta in the wild-card standings. 
Cain held the Rockies hit­less until speedy Jay Payton legged out an infield single with one out in the eighth. Giants shortstop Juan Uribe shuffled in and to his left to field Payton's slowly hit grounder but had trouble making the exchange, and the 37-year-old Payton beat the throw to first. 
Cain struck out Miguel Olivo, but pinch-hitter Melvin Mora homered to cut San Francisco's lead in half. The two-run shot ended Cain's scoreless streak at 20 innings and his chance for a third career one-hitter. 
Still, the right-hander went the distance on a three-hitter for his 12th career complete game and fourth this season. He won his fourth straight start and hasn't lost in seven outings since Aug. 18. 
Cain (13-10) retired his first 12 batters before making a throwing error on Troy Tulowitzki's bouncer to start the fifth. Cain also walked Ryan Spilborghs in the inning, but struck out three. 
San Francisco's pitching staff got back on track after a 10-9 loss in 10 innings Saturday night. That ended a stretch of 18 consecutive games in which the Giants didn't allow more than three runs, the longest streak in the majors since the Chicago White Sox set the record with 20 straight in 1917, accord­ing to the Elias Sports Bureau. 
San Francisco took two of three in the series at Coors Field. 
Freddy Sanchez gave Cain an early lead. After Jorge De La Rosa (8-6) began the game by walking Cody Ross on four pitches, Sanchez homered to left on De La Rosa's 0-2 pitch. 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, September 27, 2010 
NFL 

Seahawks run past Chargers; Cards win in OT 
of 32 for 220 yards and a 9-yard TD pass to John Carlson. 
Deion Branch appeared to score on a 42-yard TD in the second quarter, but only momentarily. As Branch was about to cross the goal line, Chargers safety Paul Oliver punched the ball loose from behind. The call was originally a touchdown but overturned on replay review. 
San Diego could have milked the rest of the half, but Rivers threw three straight incomple­tions and Seattle capitalized with Hasselbeck’s TD to Carlson with 53 seconds left in the half. 
Amazingly, Seattle had one more chance and wasted it. Darren Sproles fumbled on the ensuing kickoff return at the 24, recovered by rookie Dexter Davis. Hasselbeck got Seattle to the Chargers 2 and spiked on second down with Seattle out of timeouts. On third-and-1, Hasselbeck tried a sneak and got the first down. But unsure if he did, the Seahawks tried to rush the kicking unit onto the field and couldn’t get the kick off before the half ended. 
Arizona 24, Oakland 23 
Fittingly, Arizona’s victory over Oakland on Sunday ended with a big mistake. 
The game was littered with them. 
Sebastian Janikowski's errant 32-yard field goal as the game ended allowed the Cardinals to escape in their home opener, a game Oakland had repeated chances to win in the final min­utes. 
The kick, after a 39-yard pass interference call against Arizona’s Dominique Rodgers-Cromartie, was wide left. 
Janikowski missed two others in the game, a 41-yarder and a 58­yarder. Both were wide right. 
LaRod Stephens-Howling returned the opening kickoff 102 yards for a touchdown for Arizona (2-1) and Derek Anderson threw two touchdown passes, including an 8-yarder to Larry Fitzgerald with 1:01 left in the third quarter that proved to be the game winner. 
Oakland (1-2) committed 11 penalties for 123 yards, Arizona seven for 104. 
New Raiders starting quarter­back Bruce Gradkowski was 17 of 34 for 255 yards and a touch­down with one interception. He threw 12 yards to Darrius Heyward-Bey on fourth-and-10 from his own 36 to keep the final drive alive. But he also was the main culprit in a delay-of­game penalty after another pass interference call — this one against Arizona's Greg Toler — gave the Raiders the ball first-
Associated Press 
SEATTLE — With a metal rod in his right leg, Leon Washington was deemed expendable in New York. 
Sunday, he was invaluable in Seattle. 
Washington made up for a Seattle slew of mistakes and missed chances, returning sec­ond-half kickoffs 101 and 99 yards for touchdowns to tie an NFL record, and the Seahawks held off Philip Rivers and the San Diego Chargers 27-20 on Sunday. 
Pete Carroll’s crew is now a surprising 2-1 and tied at the top of the mediocre NFC West. And Washington looks like a colossal steal after Seattle grabbed the versatile back from the Jets for a fifth-round pick during April’s draft. 
Seattle led 10-0 at the half, but was still smarting from a time management failure at the end of the second quarter. Washington made that a forgot­ten meltdown. 
Washington caught the sec­ond-half kickoff 1-yard deep in the end zone, and other than a couple of flailing hands grasping at his shoes, went untouched for the longest kickoff return in Seahawks history. 
His dash midway through the fourth quarter was the clincher. Rivers had just pulled San Diego (1-2) even with a 12-yard pass to Antonio Gates and 2-point conversion to Legedu Naanee with 6:39 left. 
Fifteen seconds later, Seattle was back in front. Washington got lost in a pile, squirted free and raced 99 yards to give Seattle its final advantage. He is the 10th player to return two kickoffs in for a TD in a game. 
From there, Rivers tested Seattle’s maligned secondary that allowed the Chargers QB to throw for a career-high 455 yards. San Diego drove to the Seattle 14 before a pair of false starts backed up Rivers. On fourth-and-15 at the Seattle 19, his pass for Gates at the goal line was knocked away by Roy Lewis. 
Rivers got one more chance after San Diego’s defense held. Starting at his 45, Rivers com­pleted passes of 16 yards to Buster Davis and 25 yards to Malcom Floyd. Rivers final chance thrown to the goal line was intercepted by rookie safety Earl Thomas with 6 seconds left. 
Finally, the normally exuber­ant Carroll could smile and get a bear hug from defensive line coach Dan Quinn. 
Rivers completed 29 of 53 passes and had two touchdowns and two interceptions. Gates fin­ished with seven catches for 109 yards and a score, one of nine players to catch passes. 
San Diego played without rookie running back Ryan Mathews (injured ankle). The Chargers also lost star line­backer Shawne Merriman to a calf injury in the first quarter and starting right guard Louis Vasquez to a knee injury. Along with the injuries, San Diego turned over the ball five times and Rivers was sacked another four times. 
Seattle will feel fortunate to slip away with the victory con­sidering all its errors. 
Matt Hasselbeck made a poor throw that was intercepted at the goal line by Quentin Jammer in the first half, and finished 19 and-goal at the Arizona 1-yard line midway through the fourth quarter. 

The penalty pushed the ball back to the 6 and Arizona's defense held, forcing Oakland settle for Janikowski's 23-yard field goal that cut the lead to 24­23 with 7:59 to play. 
Later, Gradkowski’s 35-yard pass to Louis Murphy helped Oakland advance to the Arizona 35, where Janikowski — who has a career-long 61-yarder and had booted a 54-yarder earlier in the game — set up for a 53­yard try. But a false start against left tackle Mario Henderson pushed the ball back 5 yards for a much more diffi­cult 58-yarder attempt. Janikowski had the distance, but was just wide right. 
Two of Oakland's field goals came after Raiders' punts bounced off the legs of an Arizona player — first Matt Ware, then Rodgers-Cromartie. 
MLB 

Vizquel leads White Sox to victory with RBI 
Associated Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif. — Add another key hit to Omar Vizquel’s resume. 
Juan Pierre tripled home the tying run and scored on Vizquel’s single in the seventh inning, leading the Chicago White Sox over the Los Angeles Angels 4-3 Sunday. 
The White Sox have beaten the Angels seven straight times, their longest winning streak against them since a 10-game stretch in 1983-84. 
“Omar’s like fine wine. He just gets better with age,” Pierre said. “He’s fun to be around, he’s always profes­sional and he always comes to play every day. It’s great just to watch his demeanor and composure, even more than him talking about the game.” 
“I think he could play anoth­er five years if he wanted to. I think people take him for granted, but he’s gotten big hits all year for us,” he said. 
Vizquel, an 11-time Gold Glove winner at shortstop in his 22 seasons, has been used mostly at third base this sea­son due to the presence of shortstop Alexei Ramirez. Vizquel is hitting .323 over his last 60 games, raising his average from .237 to a more respectable .288 in 103 games. 
“For a guy that is 43 years old, it’s turned out to be a great season for me,” Vizquel said. “I’m pretty satisfied about the season I’ve had, especially after I saw that I wasn’t going to have the chance to play too much. I came here with the mindset that I was going to be the utili­ty guy and maybe play twice a week. But it turned out to be a big surprise for everybody — especially for myself. I’ve been given the chance to play a lot and things have gone good for me.” 
Angels starter Jered Weaver (13-12) struck out nine and took over the major league strikeout lead with 229, two more than Seattle’s Felix Hernandez. 
Weaver finished his home slate for 2010 with a 1.86 ERA in 16 starts, and was not charged with more than three earned runs in any of them. The fans remaining from the crowd of 42,686 gave him a standing ovation when he returned to the dugout for the final time this year. But under the circumstances, he chose not to tip his cap. 


Monday, September 27, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
Waldrum 
continued from page 20 
Friday’s game in Alumni Stadium was marked by offensive balance, as each goal was scored by a differ­ent player, including senior forward Rose Augustin’s team-leading fifth goal of the 2010 campaign, as well as the first career goals for freshman midfielder Mandy Laddish and freshman for­ward Adriana Leon. Senior defender Julie Schiedler scored the final goal, also her first of the season. The offen­sive explosion was accompa­nied by defensive dominance, as the Irish limited the Bearcats (6-3-1, 0-2 Big East) to six shots, and only two on goal. 
Sunday’s matchup was of high importance in the Big East race, as the Cardinals were poised to be the biggest conference challenger to Notre Dame. The stakes were high, and Waldrum was sure to impress that on his squad. 
“We told the players before the game to take it as a championship game, since the rest of the Big East has been beating up on itself,” he said.” 
The Irish took Waldrum’s advice to heart, getting on the board within the first ten minutes. 
The Irish were led by junior forward Melissa Henderson, who notched two goals and an assist, and in the process became the fifteenth Irish player to score 40 goals in her career. 
Notre Dame again dominat­ed the stat sheet, firing 16 shots on goal to the Cardinals’ three. When all was said and done, the Irish had completed the program’s largest-ever margin of victo­ry when visiting a ranked team. 
Waldrum credits his team’s offensive success to the increased distribution of attacking chances, as five dif­ferent players netted their first goals of the season this weekend. 
“We made it a point of emphasis to create more chances and be more effi­cient in the final third,” he said. “We got a couple other players to score goals, and that helped. You don’t want to rely on one or two people.” 
Despite the offensive fire­works of the weekend, Waldrum gave credit to the shutdown defense of his back line for providing a balanced team effort. 
“We got two shutouts this weekend — the defense has been great for us there,” he said. “We’ve got both sides of the ball working really well this weekend.” 
Most impressive to the Irish coach, however, was the com­posure his team showed on a crucial midseason weekend. 
“It was a key weekend,” Waldrum said. “Against a team that was full of confi­dence, the kids handled it tremendously. They were very, very composed.” 
The Irish look to continue their NCAA-record 69-game conference unbeaten streak next weekend with two home games. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 



NASCAR 
Johnson wins again in Dover 
Associated Press 
DOVER, Del. — Jimmie Johnson had it all. He won the pole, dominated again to win at Dover International Speedway, and even held his baby daughter in his arms in Victory Lane for the first time. 
He called it a dream weekend. 
Yet, it wasn’t enough for the four-time Cup champion. 
Not even close. 
Johnson let the field know his bid for a fifth straight title is alive and thriving by winning the second race of the Chase for the Sprint Cup championship on Sunday for his sixth victory of the season. He won’t be truly happy with the result until he’s hoisting the series trophy and celebrating another champi­onship after the finale. 
“Yes, today was a big victory and hopefully a step toward the championship,” Johnson said, “but it’s not the prize we want.” 
Johnson has owned Dover the last two years, winning for the third time in four races on the mile concrete oval. He shook off a rare poor finish in last week’s Chase opener at New Hampshire to turn the fastest qualifying lap, cruise to the checkered flag and shoot to sec­ond in the points standings. 
Johnson has few better tracks to jump-start his championship run than Dover with six career wins and 12 top-10 finishes in 18 races. He was sensational in the No. 48 Chevrolet here in May until a rare pit road mis­take put him in 16th place. 
“There’s a very unique rhythm to driving this track and it’s just suited my style,” Johnson said. 
Chase drivers filled five of the top-six spots. Jeff Burton was second, Kurt Busch was fourth, Carl Edwards fifth and Kyle Busch sixth. Joey Logano spoiled the sweep with a sec-ond-place finish. 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, September 27, 2010 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish capture win in Mary Fossum Invitational 
By MEGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish came back from second place to win Michigan State’s Mary Fossum Invitational in East Lansing, Mich. Sunday. 
Notre Dame’s final score of 890 (+26) was five under sec­ond place Kent State’s total and six under defending cham­pion Michigan State’s final tally. 
Irish freshman Nicole Zhang captured the individual title in a record-breaking performance with a three-round total of 207 
Clark 
continued from page 20 
that’s the thing. At a certain point, there’s no use in having shots — you have to get them into the net. It’s the only sta­tistic that really counts. You can get all the other statistics, but at the end of the day, they don’t mean anything if you’re not getting goals.” 
The score was set up by a shot by junior Dillon Powers, which was punched out of bounds by a diving Diaz. Junior Brendan King took the corner kick and placed it into the box, which opened the door for Perry to put it away. 
Clark said he was happy with his team’s intensity, something he said had been lacking recently. 
“It’s no question [that the (69, 67, 71), nine fewer strokes than the second finisher. Zhang bested the previous individual record by seven strokes. 
“[I’m] very pleased overall with the team’s performance,” Irish coach Susan Holt said. “It is a big boost of confidence to know that you can come from behind and beat two great pro­grams in Kent State and Michigan State on their home course and win.” 
The first day of the tourna­ment saw the Irish post a 593 (17-over par) to put them in second, two strokes behind Kent State after 36 holes. Notre Dame’s collective strokes 
team came out with intensi­ty],” Clark said. “I think they knew that. I don’t think they had to be reminded. I think that they felt that they let themselves down last week­end, and it’s just hard. I thought this game right from the start our players looked fresh and there was a lot of energy.” 
Irish junior goalkeeper Will Walsh earned his fourth shutout of the year, even though he was not forced to make a save. St. John’s was unable to put a shot on goal, something Clark said can be attributed to the Notre Dame defense. 
“I think the defense did well,” Clark said. “I think every goalkeeper will say that ‘I don’t need the saves,’ I think that we did a good job of not letting St. John’s get shots on time.” 
amounted to 298 in the first round and 295 in the second. 
Zhang led the scoring field from the start, but seniors So-Hyun Park and Katie Conway, junior Becca Huffer and fresh­man Kristina Nhim built on her performance. Park hit a 75 (+3) in each of the two rounds while Huffer carded a total 153 (+9). Nhim followed at 154 and Conway at 160 to close the 36­hole day. 
“Nicole set the pace on Saturday and she got more support from her teammates on Sunday with Becca Huffer shooting 73 and So-Hyun Park shooting 75,” Holt said. 
The Irish improved in the 18­hole round on the second day of the tournament, shooting a 297 to put them in front of Kent State and Michigan State for the victory. 
Park continued her solid play with a third round of 75 to fin­ish tied in eighth with a 225. Huffer followed suit, tying for tenth and shooting her best round of the weekend with a 73 and posting a 226 on the weekend. Nhim was not far behind with a final round of 78 to tie for 19th and put her total at 232, while Conway closed out the Notre Dame scorers with a 242 on the weekend, tying for 49th. 
Irish junior Kate Allare com­peted individually in the event, tying for 15th with a three-round finish of 230. 
The Irish will look to build off their successful weekend later this week when they host the William K. Warren Invitational at the Warren Golf Course October 2-3. 
“We are off to a great start and will work our way through a very competitive remaining fall schedule with a lot of posi­tive energy,” Holt said. 
Contact Meghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
The Raiders had one last chance as the Irish were called for a handball in the penalty box in the 85th minute. Fortunately for Notre Dame, St. John’s senior mid­fielder Tadeu Terra pushed his penalty kick wide left of the goal, sealing the Irish vic­tory. 
The Irish have a quick turn­around, as they will travel to Toyota Park, home of the Chicago Fire in Bridgeview, Ill. to take on Northwestern Wendesday at 8 p.m. 
“There’s no question that we have the potential to be a good team,” Clark said. “If we can play like that and come out with that intensity and with the ability that this team has, I would like to think that we can win a lot of games.” 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 


Belles 
continued from page 20 
goal of the game came late in the second half when sopho­more Maddie Meckes scored her first goal of the year off of an assist by Valencia. 
The Belles have altered their offensive attack to a more aggressive approach, which makes them defensively vulner­able, but Saint Mary’s coach Michael Joyce said he has con­fidence in his defenders to con­trol the pressure. 
“We pushed a lot of numbers forward,” Joyce said. “It leaves us a little exposed at the back but our defenders can usually handle it.” 
Stuss 
continued from page 20 
swing the momentum in the match. 
Junior Lindsey Stuss led the way for the Belles with 12 kills. Leitz once again paced the team with 28 assists. Bodien and seniors Meghann Rose and Ellen Huelsmann all 
The Belles also tallied their second straight home shutout thanks to a tremendous effort by the defense. They limited the Grizzlies (3-4) to four shots and only one shot on goal. 
Joyce said he thinks the recent success can be attrib­uted to their home field advan­tage. 
“We love to play at home,” Joyce said. “It is the surface we're used to, the dimensions we're used to; there's a little extra motivation I think at home.” 
The Belles will open up con­ference play Wednesday when they travel to play No. 15 ranked Calvin College. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
finished in double figures for digs. Bodien also had a team-high three aces on the day. 
The Belles sit seventh in the MIAA standings, with ten con­ference games remaining this season. 
The Belles’ next match is Wednesday when they travel to Trine University. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


Monday, September 27, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
PGA 

Furyk wins FedEx Cup in dramatic fashion 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA — One clutch shot gave Jim Furyk two big tro­phies Sunday. 
He sat between them Sunday afternoon after his dramatic victory in the rain at East Lake, the crystal trophy for the Tour Championship on his left and the sterling silver FedEx Cup trophy on his right. 
Which one meant more? 
Furyk reached out his right hand and gently tapped the sil­ver cup, which might be more valuable than the $10 million that comes with it. 
Clinging to a one-shot lead, in a bunker so deep he could only see the top of the lip, Furyk hit a clean shot and watched it head for the flag. It landed inches from the cup and spun to a stop 2½ feet away for an easy par and a one-shot victory over Luke Donald. 
He put his name on a trophy with Tiger Woods and Vijay Singh. He finally won the Tour Championship, giving him three victories in a season for the first time in his career. He stat­ed a strong case — three victo­ries and FedEx Cup champion 
— as PGA Tour player of the year. 
Maybe that explains why his stoic demeanor gave way to a celebration never before seen out of Furyk. 
“It just hit me,” said Furyk, who closed with an even-par 
70. “I was excited and dropped the putter and ... I don’t know. I guess at that moment, you’re not really responsible for what happens next.” 
He thrust his fist toward the grandstand with such force that it looked like he heaved his golf ball into the crowd. And he shared a hug with his wife, Tabitha, asking her, “Did I win the bonus?” 
Furyk had a pretty good idea when he walked off the 18th tee, and the cheer of the crowd when he tapped in only con­firmed it. 
It was the kind of finish the PGA Tour had in mind when it created the FedEx Cup four years ago. Six players had a chance to claim the $10 million prize over the final hour at East Lake, from Matt Kuchar as the top seed to Nick Watney all the way down at No. 28. 
Then came the final hole. 
Donald chipped in for birdie from 100 feet on the 17th hole to keep his hopes alive. Furyk, who had a three-shot lead with three holes to play, made bogey on the 16th and 17th holes and hit his hybrid into a bunker on the 18th. If he made bogey, Furyk and Donald would go back to the 230-yard 18th hole for a sudden-death playoff with $11.35 million riding on the outcome. 
Then came a bunker shot that defined a career worth of grit. He was in a bunker nine times at East Lake, and saved par every time. 
Donald didn’t bother going to the range. He waited in the scoring trailer. 
“I didn’t feel like going out in the rain and drowning myself even more,” Donald said. “So I was just watching the action, seeing if there was a chance I was going to get in a playoff. But Jim made a great up-and­down at the last and deserved the victory.” 
Furyk finished at 8-under 272 and earned $1.35 million, along with the $10 million bonus, the biggest payoff in golf. He moved to No. 5 in the world ranking. 
Furyk was the No. 3 seed when the playoffs began, but was disqualified from the open­er when he missed his pro-am time at The Barclays because the battery died in his cell phone, which he used for an alarm. He was No. 11 in the standings going into the Tour Championship, and became the first player out of the top 10 to win the cup. 
Turns out he joins Woods as the only FedEx Cup champions to miss the first playoff event — Woods in 2007 because he did-n’t want to play, Furyk this year because he couldn’t. 
He still ranks the U.S. Open as his biggest win, although this was a close second. 
“It’s only 4 years old,” he said of the FedEx Cup. “But 40 years from now, there should be a lot of history in this trophy. And to have ‘Tiger Woods, Vijay Singh, Tiger Woods, Jim Furyk’ ... I’m very proud of that, because those two can flat play 
— two of the most dominant players of my era, for sure.” 
This Sunday was so bizarre that Kuchar, who shot 71 and tied for 25th in a 30-man field, still had a chance to win the FedEx Cup. He wound up sec­ond for a $3 million bonus-. Donald moved up to third in the standings and picked up an extra $2 million. 
Retief Goosen also had a chance at both trophies until a bogey on the 17th. He shot a 71 and finished alone in third at the Tour Championship. Watney (67) and Casey (69) tied for fourth. 

The celebration was damp­ened by a two-hour rain delay that sent most of the fans home from East Lake. For those who stayed, it was tough to applaud with one hand on the umbrella as the rain pounded the players over the final hour of competi­tion. 
Even so, a FedEx Cup finale has never had so many possi­bilities, so much movement. 
Watney wasn’t even a remote candidate when he went into the weekend tied for 25th in the 30-man field, 13 shots out of the lead. Then came a 63 in the third round, and he kept right on going. Watney shot a 28 on the back nine Saturday, then had a 30 on the front nine Sunday to pull within one shot of the lead. 
Watney could have won the FedEx Cup with a victory at East Lake, provided Kuchar did not finish alone in 25th. Kuchar missed a 7-foot par putt on the final hole. 
That became irrelevant when Watney failed to birdie the par­5 15th and made his first bogey of the round on the 16th. 
Even when Furyk had a three-shot lead after his birdie on the 15th, the FedEx Cup remained in doubt. 
Casey, who has not won a tournament all year, could have claimed the $10 million bonus by finishing alone in second place. Casey was at 6 under — one shot behind Goosen in sec­ond — when he hit his approach toward the corporate tents on the 17th. After a free drop, he hit a wedge to just outside 5 feet and badly missed the putt. 


MLB 
Heisey leads Padres in dismantling of Reds 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO — Chris Heisey homeredandhitathree-rundou­ble,leadingtheCincinnatiRedsto a 12-2 romp over the San Diego Padres on Sunday that reduced their magic number to one for winningtheNLCentral. 
JoeyVottoandBrandonPhillips alsohomeredfortheReds,denied a chance to clinch the division title Sunday when the St. Louis Cardinals held on to win 8-7 at theChicagoCubs.Cincinnatiisoff Monday and then opens a three-game series at home Tuesday nightagainsttheHoustonAstros. 
SanDiego’slossensuredaplay­off spot for the Philadelphia Phillies, who need one win or an Atlanta defeat to wrap up the NL Eastcrown. 
The Padres dropped a half-game behind the first-place San Francisco Giants in the NL West race, and took a half-game lead over the Braves in the wild-card race. 
It’s the seventh time since Sept. 16 that the Giants and Padres have flip-flopped atop the divi­sion. The Giants won 4-2 at Colorado. The Padres and Giants will play a season-ending week­endseriesatSanFrancisco. 
The Reds snapped a three-game losing streak and won for justtheeighthtimein21games. 
Homer Bailey (4-3) combined with two relievers on a six-hitter. Bailey allowed two runs and five hits in seven innings. The Reds have won eight of Bailey’s nine starts since he came off the dis­abled list on Aug. 15. Still, this was only his third win in that stretch. 
Adrian Gonzalez hit his 30th homer for the Padres, a leadoff shot down the right-field line in the second, and finished with three hits. It is his fourth 30­homer season, extending his club record. He hit a career-high 40 last year. Yorvit Torrealba also homeredforSanDiegointhesec­ond,hisseventh. 
Votto hit a two-out, opposite-field shot to left field off lefty Clayton Richard in the first, his 37th. He added a two-run single inthesix-runeighth. 
SixPadrespitcherscombinedto walk nine, with five of those run­nersscoring. 
Heisey had the big blow in the fourth. Richard loaded the bases by walking Votto leading off the inning, allowing a one-out double by Jonny Gomes andintentionally walkingPhillips.Heiseythenhita hard grounderdownthelinepast third baseman Chase Headley to clear the bases and give the Reds a4-2lead. 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, September 27, 2010, 
nation today to not let that happen and there was good 
Silva 
continued from page 20 
fortable, she’s totally express­ing her personality, her play­ing style. I think the more we play, the more experienced the freshman get, the more comfortable they get, the bet­ter things will be. So it’s really exciting to see them get com­fortable and confident on the court.” 
Irish coach Brown said the experience of the team’s upperclassmen also shone over the weekend as they managed to keep the team motivated and focused, espe­cially when working to hold onto a lead. 
“I think in the past we’ve had situations where we’ve had big leads and we’ve let teams kind of get back in it, and there was just a determi­execution,” she said. 
Helping keep the win in sight at each match were jun­ior outside hitter Kristen Dealy, senior middle blocker Kellie Sciacca and Silva. Dealy closed the weekend with 14 kills and 31 digs, including two kills at the 26-26 mark Friday night to close out the third set against West Virginia. Sciacca had 14 kills and a few block assists and Silva had 21 digs while also leading her team vocally on the court. 
Sophomore Hilary Eppink had a strong Sunday perform­ance with 12 kills and a dig to lead the offense. 
The Irish will continue their Big East play next weekend at USF and Georgetown. 
Contact Meghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 


SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Belles claim school best over weekend 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s claimed their highest finish ever at an MIAA event at this weekend’s confer­ence jamboree at Olivet College. 
Two nationally ranked teams, No. 13 Calvin College and No. 10 Hope College took first and second place, respec­tively. 
The Belles finished with a team score of 104, trailing behind first place Calvin with 21 points and Hope with 34 points. Saint Mary’s bested fourth place finisher, Adrian, which finished with 131 points. 
Belles coach Jackie Bauters was pleased to see her team crack the top three at an MIAA event. 
“As a coach in many ways it was just like any other day… it's been possible before and was just great to see it hap­pen,” Bauters said. 
This historic finish for the Belles could not have come at a more opportune time. The Jamboree counts for one-third of the final conference stand­ings. With the strong showing this weekend, the Belles made great strides towards achiev­ing their goals for the season. 
“It has been our goal to fin­ish third in the conference so we are one step closer to achieving that goal,” Bauters said. “In order to be third overall we'll need to beat Adrian again in the champi­onship meet. We are in a good position to reach our goals heading into October.” 
Junior Joanne Almond set the pace for the Belles. She finished in 15th with a time of 23:42, breaking her own per­sonal record for the second consecutive weekend. Coach Bauters attributed Almond’s growing success to her posi­tive outlook and determina­tion. 
“[Almond] is a strong runner physically and mentally,” Bauters said. “She has a great attitude and is just a pleasure to coach. If you tell her she can do something she'll go do it, and that helps to keep her on top.” 
Sophomore Julia Kenney was the next Belle to cross the finish line, with a time of 24:01, earning 18th place. Sophomore Emma Baker (21st), and seniors Catie Salyer (23rd) and Sam Wassel (27th) rounded out the five scoring runners for Saint Mary’s. 
The Belles’ next competition is set for Saturday at the Sean Earl Invitational in Chicago. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 


Monday, September 27, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDV LLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Monday, September 27, 2010 page 20 
MEN’S SOCCER 
Irish start Big East play with win, set tone 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Associate Sports Editor 
In their first conference match and a game that could set the tone for their entire season, the Irish defeated No. 12 St. John’s 1-0 Saturday. 
“It was a really good game,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “We felt like we were where we wanted to be with our team.” 
Notre Dame (3-2-2, 1-0-0 Big East) outshot the Red Storm (5­2-0, 0-1-0 Big East) 18-7, and had nine shots on goal to St. John’s none. Senior forward Steven Perry was able to connect on one of those nine, scoring in the 70th minute to give his team the go-ahead goal. 
“You’ve got to hope that it will translate to more goals soon,” Clark said. “Their keeper [red-shirt freshman Rafael Diaz] made three excellent saves, and those could have been goals, but 
see CLARK/page 16 

Getting Big 

YUE WU/The Observer Notre Dame midfelder Greg Klazura tries to overpower a St. John’s opponent in a attempt to obtain possession Saturday in a 1-0 win over the No. 12 Red Storm at Alumni Stadium. 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles hit stride with 3-0 victory 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
St. Mary’s notched their sec­ond straight home victory Sunday afternoon with a 3-0 win over Franklin College. 
The Belles’ (2-8) offense finally kicked things into gear and scored as many goals Sunday as they had previously scored all year. They were dominant offensively, outshoot­ing the Grizzlies 34-4. 
After getting the rebound of her own shot, freshman Mollie Valencia scored the first goal for the Belles in the 34th minute. Minutes later, junior Katelyn Tondo-Steele scored the second goal of the day after receiving a pass from freshman Kerry Puckett in the penalty box, which she controlled and scored, giving the Belles a 2-0 advantage. The third and final 
see BELLES/page 16 


ND VOLLEYBALL 

Purcell packed as Irish dominate West Virginia, Pittsburgh 
Pittsburgh 3-0 (25-19, 25-19 our talent, and it’s great to be strong start, posting 16 kills blocks and a pair of aces in
By MEGHAN VESELIK 

and 25-14) on Sunday, to end 2-0 at this point.” and 13 digs Friday night and the two games.
Sports Writer 

a three-match losing streak The Irish (9-5), who were coming back with nine more Junior libero Frenchy Silva with the two wins. undefeated in the Big East kills and seven digs Sunday. said the stats aren’t the only 
Fans heard the phrase “Well it’s certainly a good regular season last year, are Seven of Friday’s kills came in evidence of the impact the “Point Irish” plenty of times at start, and we know that the working to repeat the trend the third set when Notre Dame freshmen have made on the Purcell Pavilion this weekend conference season is long and this year. Brown said the was down 24-20 and came team either. as Notre Dame took down both that there will be challenges weekend was a strong start, back to capture a 28-26 win. “I think it’s really fun to see Pittsburgh and West Virginia in front of us,” Irish coach especially for some of their Fellow freshman middle them come along and play in straight sets to close out Debbie Brown said. “But it’s a freshmen, whose performanc-blocker Sam Brown saw her their own game,” Silva said. their Big East opening week-great way to start and every es suggest an quick adjust-first collegiate action Friday “Like Sam Brown, it’s the first end. player on the roster had an ment to collegiate competition. and ended the weekend with time she started this weekend 
Notre Dame defeated the opportunity to get in at some Freshman outside hitter nine kills and five blocks. but she’s out there, she’s com-Mountaineers 3-0 (25-10, 25-point. So I think that’s good Andrea McHugh got her rookie Freshman Sammie Brown had 19, 28-26) on Friday and that we continue to develop conference season off to a 58 assists, 8 digs, 3 kills, 2 see SILVA/page 18 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Irish win easily in Big East openers 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
The Irish stayed unbeaten in Big East play after a domi­nating weekend in which the Irish easily handled two con­ference opponents in impres­sive fashion. 
The Irish shut out Cincinnati 4-0 at home on Friday night and No. 24/18 Louisville on the road by a record-setting count of 5-0 Sunday afternoon. 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum characterized this past week­end as a potentially season-defining one for his squad. If he is right, then there are great things in store for No. 5/9 Notre Dame (9-1, 3-0 Big East). 
see WALDRUM/page 15 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles go winless in two MIAA matchups 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
The Belles fell to confer­ence foes Alma and Adrian, 3-0 and 3-1, respectively, over the weekend to extend their losing streak to five matches. 
On Friday night, Saint Mary’s (3-11, 1-5 MIAA) traveled to conference oppo­nent Alma College. The Scots started off strong and never looked back, taking the match 3-0 (25-12, 25-7, 25­18). Alma (10-4, 5-1 MIAA) jumped out in front from the beginning and played consis­tently throughout. 
Belles freshman Hailee Leitz picked up ten assists while sophomore teammate Stephanie Bodien added five kills. 
The Belles did not have much time to prepare for their match Saturday against Adrian, with a turn­around time of less than 24 hours. 
Saint Mary’s dropped a tight match to the Bulldogs (5-7, 2-4 MIAA, falling 3-1 (22-25, 25-17, 26-24, 25-19) on Saturday afternoon. 
The Bulldogs dropped the first set before taking each of the last three to claim the win. Adrian pulled off a comeback in the third set to 
see STUSS/page 16 

IRISH INSIDER 
THE 

Monday, September 27, 2010 observer Notre Dame 14, Stanford 37 
Completely Cardinal 
Stanford dominates Irish in all aspects of game for 37-14 victory 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
Following two weeks of last-minute heartbreak for Notre Dame, No. 9 Stanford eliminated any doubt about Saturday’s out­come long before the end of the game. 
Quarterback Andrew Luck wore down the Irish defense dur­ing the Cardinal’s 37-14 victory. The win, Stanford’s second straight against Notre Dame, left Irish coach Brian Kelly and his team searching for optimism in the wake of a 1-3 start. 
“Our defense battled,” Kelly said. “Not making any excuses for our kids, but we played three, four really good football teams, physical teams, and our kids have battled each and every week. We came up short this week. But they’re not going anywhere. They’re going to be back next week and they’re going to strap it back up and they’re going to fight and play as hard as they can. We’re going to build this program to where it needs to be.” 
The scoring opened early in the first quarter off an uncharacteris­tic fumble by Stanford punt returner Doug Baldwin, who muffed a punt near the 20-yard line and allowed Irish sophomore Zeke Motta to recover, giving the Irish great field position. 

The five-play drive included three plays in which senior run­ning back Armando Allen received the snap directly in the ‘Wildcat’ formation. Following zero coverage,” Harbaugh said. to capitalize on their second inter-pass on the first play of the ensu-dence in the atmosphere of our that, the drive stalled on the five-“[Luck] bought some time and ception of Luck, by senior corner-ing drive and returned it for a team and I can see the drive in yard line after junior tight end threw a heck of a ball to Fleener. back Darrin Walls off a deflection, touchdown to put the game out of my teammates eyes. It’s what will Kyle Rudolph fell one yard short Fleener looked to me like he had as they followed it with a three-reach at 34-6. Marecic became keep us going and eventually of the first down on a completion about a second and a half of hang and-out. Crist completed only the first player in the Division I we’ll come out on top.” from junior quarterback Dayne time up in the air and was able to three passes in the third quarter, Football Bowl Subdivision to The Irish were led defensively Crist. Rudolph struggled through-make a heck of a catch.” a small glimpse of a day in which score a touchdown on offense and by a career day from sophomore out the game, with only one Following the touchdown pass he struggled to find options down-defense in the same game since middle linebacker Manti Te’o, reception for one yard, after com-to Fleener, the expected battle of field while completing 25 of 44 Utah’s Eric Weddle did it in 2006. who posted 21 tackles against the ing into the game as the leading high-powered offenses settled passing attempts for 304 yards. “I’ve called him a lot of things,” Cardinal. Irish receiver. down into a field goal affair, as “They were dropping a lot of Harbaugh said of Marecic. “He’s a “He played with a will today. He 
“[We] really wanted to get pen-Stanford kicker Nate Whitaker guys. They had eight guys in cov-perfect football player. Just never had a look on his face, a tough­etration, do a good job up front posted three second-quarter field erage a whole bunch,” Crist said. been around a guy like this in 30 ness to him that he hasn’t dis-knocking them back, chipping the goals to Irish senior David “You don’t want to sit and make some years of playing college, pro played since he’s been a player tight end, Rudolph, trying to keep Ruffer’s one to close the first half excuses, but tip your hat to football and in coaching. He does here at Notre Dame,” Kelly said. him without the ability to get free with the score 16-6. Whitaker, Stanford. They had some good everything right.” “Today is one of those watershed access into our defense and our who played for the Irish from calls out there. We just got to find Following Marecic’s unlikely moments for a defensive player secondary,” Cardinal coach Jim 2006-2007 as a walk-on before answers and do a better job in feat, the Irish offense began to that we can model.” Harbaugh said. “I thought we did transferring, went 5-for-5 on field practice finding those answers.” click, as Notre Dame covered 80 Despite the best efforts of Te’o a good job containing him. He’s a goals on the day. Despite the Irish struggles yards in less than two minutes for and the rest of the Irish defense, heck of a player.” “I like to think I proved a little through three quarters, they a three-yard touchdown reception Stanford played better on 
Senior kicker David Ruffer con-something to the people out here stood within two touchdowns by sophomore receiver Theo Saturday, Kelly said. verted a 22-yard field goal to give today,” Whitaker said. “I felt like I going into the fourth when the Riddick, but it was not nearly “Stanford deserved today’s Notre Dame its only lead of the missed some opportunities when I game turned quickly on a note-enough to catch up with Stanford, win,” Kelly said. “That is a fine game. was out here at Notre Dame and worthy series of plays for and Kelly and his squad were left football team.” 
Luck then led the Cardinal (4-0) it was nice to come out here and Stanford’s senior two-way sensa-to deal with a defeat for the third The Irish will seek to end their down the field for 79 yards in 10 show people what I am capable tion Owen Marecic. Marecic, the straight week. losing streak as they travel to plays, ending with a touchdown of.” Cardinal starter at fullback and “We are still going to work Chestnut Hill, Mass. for a pass to tight end Coby Fleener in Both teams struggled to put inside linebacker, put Stanford up hard. Our goal hasn’t changed. matchup with Boston College the face of a strong Notre Dame points on the board in the third 27-6 with a one-yard run into the We still want to win games and Saturday. blitz. quarter, as an early Whitaker end zone with eight minutes to we will fight until the end. Our 
“They brought everybody, field goal provided the only scor-play, then took the field at line-hard work will pay off for us,” Contact Chris Allen at except for four. Zero blitz, played ing in the period. The Irish failed backer and intercepted Crist’s Riddick said. “There is a confi-callen10@nd.edu 

player of the game stat of the game play of the game quote of the game 
Owen Marecic 44 yards rushing Marecic’s 20-yard interception return 
“Obviously right now we’re very upset

Cardinal fullback/outside linebacker for a touchdown in the fourth quarter 
with where we’re at. It’s about having

The Irish only managed 44 yards short memories in this game.” Marecic recorded two touchdowns — rushing against the Cardinal, on Marecic’s second score in 13 seconds one a one-yard run and one a 20-only 23 attempts for a 1.9 yards put the score at 34-6 with less than Dayne Crist yard interception return. per carry average. eight minutes left in the game. Irish quarterback 



page 2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 27, 2010 
report card 
C+ B­B­C­B­C+ 
B+ C-

quarterbacks: Dayne Crist may have tal­lied more than 300 yards passing, but when you attempt 44 passes, the yards will be there, but the offense still fal­tered when it mattered. 
running backs: Armando Allen and Jonas Gray may have only managed 61 yards on 19 carries, but the fact that they only had 19 attempts is not their fault. Robert Hughes added 43 yards via screens. 
receivers: Kyle Rudolph was not a factor Saturday, which led to the offense’s stagna­tion, but Michael Floyd, Theo Riddick and John Goodman all played well, with 240 yards between the three of them. 
offensive line: Stanford sacked Crist three times, and hurried or rushed him out of the pocket far many more times than that. The Irish line also failed at creat­ing holes for the running game. 
defensive line: The Irish did not put any pressure on Cardinal quarterback Andrew Luck, but they did mostly keep the dual-threat in check on the ground, containing him in the pocket. 
linebackers: Manti Te’o made 21 tackles, a career high, but he was the lone bright spot among this group. The fault for Stanford’s ease in converting third downs lies with the second level of the defense. 
defensive backs: Notre Dame may have 
intercepted Luck twice, but otherwise 
the Irish secondary was far too passive 
in its defending. Luck’s targets rarely 
had to fight for contested balls. 
special teams: David Ruffer did as David 
Ruffer does, make field goals, extending 
his streak of perfection to 12. The Irish 
also forced a fumble on the first punt of 
the game, the best punt of the day. 
coaching: Kelly’s clock management at the end of the first half essentially gift­ed Stanford three points, and by aban­doning the running game, he allowed Stanford to focus soley on the pass. 
2.37 

overall: Across the board, Notre Dame was sloppy and inconsis­tent, and failed to show mch of a competitive spirit against the Cardinal. 
adding up the numbers 
Stanford kicker Nate Whitaker, a transfer from Notre Dame, outscored ND on his own with 
17 
17 points via five field goals and two PATs. 

21 
Manti Te’o recorded 21 tackles, eight of which were solo. The career high number accounted for nearly one-fourth of Notre Dame’s 86 tackles. 
Dayne Crist was sacked three times for a loss of 16 yards, including once that forced a fum­
16 
ble inside Stanford’s red zone. 

11 
Notre Dame has now lost its last 11 games against opponents ranked in the top-20. Stanford was ranked No. 16 Saturday. 
Notre Dame only converted 31 percent of its third downs (4-for-13). 
31 

12 
After converting his 40-yard field goal in overtime, David Ruffer has made all 12 of his career field goal attempts. 
Michael Floyd’s 110 yards receiving gave him his 10th career 100-yard game, third 
110 
in Notre Dame history. 

4:29 
In the second quarter, Notre Dame only held the ball for 4:29, while Stanford used its 10:31 to convert two field goals. 
After a pair of close losses to Michigan and Michigan State, I kept hearing two comments I didn’t buy at the time, one of which I mentioned in my pregame prediction in Friday’s Irish Insider. (I’d say “I told you so,” but I still picked a Notre Dame win, so that wouldn’t really be fair.) 
The first: Notre Dame was a play or two away from beating both the Wolverines and the Spartans, and with a lucky break and a for-

Matt Gamber 

tunate bounce, the Irish could 
Sports Writer 

have been 3-0. So, once Notre Dame got one of those opportunities, the team would show that it is, in fact, much improved over a year ago. 
Well, the Irish got a few of those breaks Saturday, as Stanford muffed a punt deep in its own territory and the Irish made two interceptions off tipped passes that could just as easily have fallen harmlessly to the ground. 
Of course, the circumstances of each game are different, and the Irish will always accept any fortune that comes their way. But after Saturday, it’s clear Notre Dame is more than just a lucky bounce away from beating, and being, one of that nation’s best teams. 
The second cliché we heard after three weeks: The Irish just need to learn how to win. 
I understand the point that a confi­dent attitude is an extremely impor­tant trait for a college football team to possess. I also understand that after going 3-9, 7-6 and 6-6 in consecutive years, Notre Dame needs to alter the program’s direction and redevelop a winning tradition. 
The Irish need to know how to win, but how the heck are they supposed to “learn?” I’ve thought about this ques­tion for hours over the past three weeks, and the only reasonable answer I’ve come up with is that to learn how to win, Notre Dame just needs to win. 
What else can the coaches or players do? There’s no “on” button. There’s no crash course, online tutorial or how-to guide that can teach these guys how to win. I know Kelly is doing his best (and I’m confident he’s doing a good job) of delivering his message and explaining what he believes his team needs to do to win. But the way fans use the term, you’d think this is something that’s just going to click, and we’ll immediately see the difference on the field. 
That’s not to say I don’t believe the Irish can get there — in fact, I do, and I think we’re in the early stages of that process. But it is a process, and devel­oping that attitude takes time. Knowing how to win is undoubtedly important, and I think it’s fairly clear that Notre Dame struggles with that to some degree. 
But let’s be honest: That’s not why the Irish have lost the last three Saturdays. There’s plenty of actual on-field evidence that suggests Notre Dame, while needing a few bounces and the knowledge of how to win, has plenty of other things to work on. 
Start with the turnover on downs at midfield early in the fourth quarter, which you could call the turning point, but that I would call a microcosm, of the game. You could question the play calls on third and fourth down, or even suggest the Irish should have punted. I won’t. 
The bottom line is that good teams convert in those high-pressure, short yardage situations. No. 1 Alabama did late in the game against Arkansas to secure a win Saturday. If you’re going to become one of those teams, you bet­ter be able to get a yard when you need it most. 
Notre Dame isn’t there yet. 
The same could be said for a num­ber of other specific plays and situa­tions in Saturday’s game. In short, the Irish were dismantled in all three facets of the game. The offense could-n’t run the ball or attack the middle of the field through the air, which Stanford did at will. The defense couldn’t get off the field on third downs and put no pressure on Cardinal quarterback Andrew Luck. The special teams didn’t generate a field position advantage with either punts or kick returns. 
I know this column sounds negative, but I want to end by reiterating my point that I think the Irish can get there. The foundation is being built by the current coaches and players, who believe success is coming. I believe it too, and for each negative I’ve pre­sented, I could name several things I’ve liked about this team’s play thus far. 
Admittedly, I was as guilty as anyone in expecting a complete 180-turn­around from the get-go. Despite a 1-2 start, several of those expectations remained intact because of what we had seen. 
If anything, the Stanford loss can serve as a reminder that this team isn’t there yet, and in truth, it’s not as close as we may have believed. But they’re coming. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 



Irish closer, but not close enough 
Monday, September 27, 2010 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Crist’s development shows in loss 

TOM YOUNG/The Observer 

Junior quarterback Dayne Crists turns to hand the ball off to senior running back Armando Allen during Notre Dame’s loss to Stanford Saturday. Irish offense struggled to gain yards consistently as Crist continues to develop as a starter. 
physical attributes needed to be a success-concern the offense looks to correct in 
By CHRIS MASOUD ful passer, he acknowledged that the men-practice this week. 
Sports Writer tal has yet to catch up to the physical. Rudolph’s absence did create an oppor­
“You have to have a greater sense of tunity for junior wide receiver John 
Following a 28-24 loss to Michigan two urgency, even if you just got to grind it out Goodman, who took full advantage, tally-weeks ago, Irish coach Brian Kelly said down the field,” Crist said. “You have to ing five catches for 59 yards. After only fans would be watching the development have a greater sense of urgency on third appearing as an emergency punt returner of junior quarterback Dayne Crist over the down, greater sense of urgency protecting against Michigan State, Kelly attributed course of an entire season. the ball, taking what they give you.” Goodman’s emergence to a strong week of 
Crist followed his coach’s statement by Kelly credited a number of defensive practice. throwing for 369 yards and 4 touchdowns schemes employed by the Cardinal to keep “Practicing better, catching the football, against Michigan State — a clear step for-his offense in check, including blitzes by holding on to it, finishing plays — got a lot ward in Kelly’s eyes. the outside linebackers and dropping eight of confidence when he was at Michigan 
Yet after Crist threw for 304 yards (170 defensive backs in coverage. Yet unwilling State, catching punts late in the game,” of which came in the final quarter) and a to make excuses, Kelly added that a num-Kelly said. “Confidence is about doing.” touchdown Saturday in a loss to Stanford, ber of poor blocks by the Irish running As the Irish prepare for Boston College Kelly reaffirmed that the development will backs and sloppy routes by the receivers this weekend, Crist said he looks forward be a progression, not a simple transforma-gave Crist additional problems to deal to utilizing Goodman as an additional tion. with. threat on offense. While he leaves the X’s 
“You know, every day he’s growing,” While much of the responsibility falls on and O’s to the coaching staff, he said he Kelly said. “There’s new things he’s con-Crirst to find the end zone, the Cardinal takes full responsibility for preparing the fronted with. He’s learning, but it is a also effectively shut down the Irish run-offense for another road game in a hostile process. This is the maturation of a quar-ning attack. Senior Armando Allen and environment — a task he said is easier terback right before your eyes. We’re junior Jonas Gray combined for 61 yards, than it looks. going to have some growing pains along an ineffective complement to a struggling “We have guys that want to win, guys the way.” passing game. that know we can win, and we have the 
Although Crist’s counterpart, Stanford “We have to give Stanford’s defense potential to win the rest of the games on junior quarterback Andrew Luck, threw credit for today,” Allen said. “They came our schedule,” Crist said. “There’s really for only 238 yards and one touchdown, the ready and played a physical game today.” that belief in the locker room — it goes all individual stat-line doesn’t tell the whole Junior tight end Kyle Rudolph was also the way through. There’s no guys in ques­story. The Cardinal captain led his team to not a factor, finishing with one catch for tion right now of where we’re going. 11 of 16 third down conversions and a one yard of total offense. Crist said that the That’s a great feeling.” perfect seven scores in seven red zone Cardinal defensive backs gave special opportunities. attention to Rudolph and did an effective Contact Chris Masoud at 
While Crist may have displayed the job of limiting his ability to get open — a cmasoud@nd.edu 
Te’o sets personal high with 21 tackles 
The 11 conversions from the key,” Irish senior cornerback “Stepfan Taylor, in particu-
By CHRIS ALLEN 

Cardinal were the most Darrin Walls said. lar. The running back 
Sports Writer 

allowed by the Irish defense seemed to get stronger as he this season, besting the pre-Luck running out went along. None of our 
Irish sophomore linebacker vious high of six conversions Cardinal quarterback backs had that many carries Manti Te’o set a career-high allowed against Purdue. Andrew Luck recorded four … that was kind of unchar­with 21 tackles in the loss. “Anytime you convert on a rushes totaling 23 yards on tered waters for our young Teo’s previous career-high third down, all of the kudos the day. The Irish have now backs.” was set Sept. 11 against goes to the offensive line,” surrendered 291 yards rush-Michigan with 13 tackles Stanford junior quarterback ing to opposing quarterbacks Legends Trophy stays in after recording 63 tackles Andrew Luck said. “Whether on the season. Stanford’s Palo Alto during the 2009 campaign. its third and short and leading rusher was sopho-Stanford’s victory puts the 
“We were in the right they’re pounding the ball or more running back Stepfan all-time series tally at 17-8, gaps,” Te’o said. “I don’t third and long and they’re Taylor, whose 28 carries and gives the Cardinal their count my tackles, I just do bringing the pressure, I were a career high. Taylor third win in 13 contests at the best I can. That is about think the credit goes to bore most of the rushing Notre Dame Stadium. The it. It doesn’t matter if I have them.” load after fellow sophomore winner of the rivalry game a hundred [tackles,] if we The 11 conversions regis-running back Tyler Gaffney receives the Legends Trophy, don’t win.” tered by Stanford on went down with an injury which was presented for the 
Saturday were the most by early in the game. first time in 1989. Notre Third-down woes an Irish opponent since “Well, I mean, we really Dame is 13-6 in games 
The Irish lost the battle on Michigan’s 12 in 2003. needed to grind some meat. I where the Legends Trophy is third down Saturday, as “We weren’t able to get thought [the running backs] awarded. Stanford finished 11-for-15 them off [the field] on third did a heck of a job,” Cardinal Contact Chris Allen at on third down conversions. downs, and that was the coach Jim Harbaugh said. callen10@nd.edu 
scoring summary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
N D  3  3  0  8  14  
STAN  10  6  3  18  37  

First quarter 
Notre Dame 3, Stanford 0 
David Ruffer 22-yd field goal with 8:11 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 16 yards, 2:39 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 3, Stanford 7 
Coby Fleener 16-yd pass from Andrew Luck (Nate Whitaker kick) with 3:37 remaining. Drive: 10 plays, 79 yards, 4:34 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 3, Stanford 10 
Whitaker 24-yd field goal with 2:08 remaining. Drive: 4 plays, 9 yards, 1:22 elapsed. 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 6, Stanford 10 
Ruffer 40-yd field goal with 13:22 remaining. Drive: 12 plays, 61 yards, 3:46 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 6, Stanford 13 
Whitaker 41-yd field goal with 4:54 remaining. Drive: 16 plays, 58 yards, 8:28 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 6, Stanford 16 
Whitaker 41-yd field goal with 4:54 remaining. Drive: 16 plays, 58 yards, 8:28 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 6, Stanford 19 
Whitaker 33-yd field goal with 10:44 remaining. Drive: 10 plays, 49 yards, 4:16 elapsed. 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 6, Stanford 27 
Owen Marecic 1-yd run (Zach Ertz pass from Luck) with 7:58 remaining. Drive: 11 plays, 49 yards, 5:37 elapsed 
Notre Dame 6, Stanford 34 
Marecic 20-yd interception return (Whitaker kick) with 7:45 remaining. 
Notre Dame 14, Stanford 34 
Theo Riddick 3-yd pass from Dayne Crist (Armando Allen rush) with 6:01 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 80 yards, 1:44 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 14, Stanford 37 
Whitaker 29-yd field goal with 4:14 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 21 yards, 1:47 elapsed. 
statistics 
rushing yards 

passing yards 

Time of Possession 


passing  
Crist  25-44-304  Luck  19-32-238  
rushing  
Allen  15-49  Taylor  28-114  
Gray  4-12  Luck  4-23  
Crist  4- -17  Amanam  6-19  
receiving  
Floyd  8-110  Fleener  4-57  
Riddick  7-71  Reuland  3-48  
Goodman  5-59  Whalen  3-37  
Hughes  2-43  Taylor  2-31  


page 4 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 27, 2010 



Completely out of hand 
After two games that came down to the wire, Notre Dame and Stanford steered away from late-game drama Saturday. The Cardinal took at 16-6 lead into halftime, and, carried by 
two touchdowns from Owen Marecic, prevailed by a final score of 37-14. Marecic, Stanford’s starting fullback and inside linebacker, 
rushed for a one-yard touchdown with 7:58 left in the game. On the next play from scrimmage, Marecic intercepted Dayne Crist’s pass and returned it 26 yards for another touchdown, broadening the Cardinal lead to 34-14. 
Crist ended the game with 304 passing yards, 110 of which were to junior receiver Michael Floyd, and one touchdown — a six-yard reception by Theo Riddick with 
6:01 left in the game. 





Clockwise from top: Robert Hughes, Armando Allen and Emeka Nwankwo sing the Alma Mater; Irish coach Brian Kelly argues a call with the Pac-10 officials; safety Jamoris Slaughter returns an interception as cornerback Robert Blanton clears a path; Michael Floyd tries to escape from a Stanford defender; David Ruffer converts one of his two field goals. 




