the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Ready for round two 

By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
Editor’s note: This is the second installment of a three-part series about Terrence Rogers, a 1979 Notre Dame graduate who has returned as a graduate student with the goal of winning Bengal Bouts. 
Terrence Rogers plans to become the oldest boxer ever to compete in the Bengal Bouts, after three attempts to win the boxing tournament as an under­graduate in the 1970s — and he could not have come this far with­out the influence of a few key people. 
Rogers’ story begins as a 10­year-old with dreams of following his oldest brother to Notre Dame and being a boxing champion like his hero, Muhammad Ali. 
“Me and my best friend were pint-size, but we thought we were Muhammad Ali,” Rogers said with a laugh. “We would go 


Bookstore offers ‘RacetoNewYork’ 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
How can you get free Hacienda chips and salsa, a free T-shirt and backpack, and the chance to win roundtrip airfare, hotel accommodations and tickets to the Notre Dame vs. Army game at Yankee Stadium? 
By participating in the Race To New York, an “Amazing Race” style contest run by the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. Teams of two will travel around Notre Dame’s campus, competing to perform various tasks and solve clues. 
The race will take place on Oct. 2 at 8 a.m. The entry fee is $50 per team, or $25 per per­son. All money benefits the United Way Agency Partners, said Kristin Blitch, marketing manager at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
Blitch said if your team gets stumped during competition, all is not lost. 

Teams are permitted to carry up to $50, Blitch said, which can be used to buy $5, $10, and $20 clues. These clues will make where a team is headed more obvious. For example, a $20 clue might plainly state where the team is going, Blitch said. This extra money is also donated to the United Way. 
This year, Blitch said the race has added a new rule that should make the game even more exciting. 
“By paying $50, one team can hold another team back for a half hour,” she said. “The only way that team can get out of the hold is to find someone with a cell phone, and make calls to get [an outside source] to donate $20.” 
The Race To New York event, in partnership with Anthony Travel and the United Way, was created in 2009. Last year, the Bookstore held the Race to 
see RACE/page 7 
around the neighborhood beating up the other kids, and when we ran out of kids to beat up, we’d beat up each other.” 
Rogers kept that passion alive as an active athlete in high school. Rogers was a varsity wrestler at Chaminade High School, where he won the New York state championship for all private and Catholic schools in his senior year. 
When college time came, 
see ROGERS/page 7 


Professors discuss midterm elections 

By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
The 2010 midterm elections might not be the bloodbath for Democrats that many ana­lysts predict, American Studies professor Matthew Storin, said Tuesday. 
Storin, along with journal­ism professor and former South Bend Tribune reporter Jack Colwell and political sci­ence professor David Nickerson, offered insights on this year’s elections Tuesday night at the first lecture in a series titled “Pizza, Pop and Politics.” 
Storin said Americans hold five common assumptions about this year’s election: that the Democrats will suffer massive losses, there is a gap in enthusiasm between the Democrats and Republicans, this year’s election could be a defining one for political races in the future, that the Tea Party is a game changer and the Tea Party could also cause a “civil war” among 
see ELECTIONS/page 7 


Forum: market, morals discussed 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame staff attempted to answer difficult questions about moral development at the panel discussion “Morals and Markets: Being Catholic in a Global Economy,” one of the first large events for this year’s Notre Dame Forum. 
“Our theme for the Forum this year is the global marketplace and the common good,” University President Fr. John Jenkins said in his opening remarks. “I think that it is a spe­cific calling for Notre Dame to address these issues with expert­ise.” 
The panel featured Dr. Margaret Pfeil, assistant profes­sor of moral theology, Dr. Bill Evans, professor of economics and Dr. Douglass Cassel, profes­sor of law and director of the Center for Civil and Human Rights at the Notre Dame Law School. Mary Hirschfeld, a Ph.D. student in moral theology at the University, moderated the panel. 
“[Forum] issues are complex and demand a discussion on the interplay between morals and the market, using Pope Benedict XVI’s 2009 encyclical, “Caritas In Veritate” as a foundation for how the Catholic Church should respond to the issues raised by the financial crisis and their 

see FORUM/page 4 
morality from a variety of per­spectives,” Hirschfeld said. “In modern times, we tend to special­ize in our one form of knowledge and we may miss the other sides of the issue, which is why a dis­cussion like this is so important.” 
Each panelist was given 12 minutes to deliver their views on 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Mary Daly head of task force page 5  Esperanza Spalding page 10  Football press conference page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Wednesday, September 22, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Mike Gotimer Alicia Smith Matthew Robinson Melissa Flanagan Cory Bernard 

Graphics Scene 
Sofia Iturbe Alex Kilpatrick 

Photo Viewpoint 
Coleman Collins Patricia Fernandez 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK THE OUTCOME OF THIS W  K ND’S GAME IS GOING TO B ? 






Chelsea Crane  Christie Draddy  Megan Weinandy  Meghan Farina  Amanda Lester  
senior  junior  senior  junior  junior  
off campus  Regina  Le Mans  Regina  Holy Cross  
“Pshhh.”  “We are on a  “Well, about  “I love Notre  “Hopefully we  
losing streak at  that...”  Dame... but...”  will have the  
the moment.  luck of the Irish  
Hopefully, it  on our side this  
will change”  weekend!”  


GRACE KENESEY/The Observer Daniel Diaz serves Mexican food for the Hispanic Heritage Month dinner at Saint Mary’s Noble Family Dining Hall. During the meal there was live music, Latin candy and desserts. 


OFFBEAT 

Children’s pocket money falls to 7-year low 
LONDON — British chil­dren's weekly pocket money has fallen to a seven-year low, in a sign parents are still cutting back on non-essential spending even as the country emerges from recession, a survey showed Monday. 
Halifax, part of Lloyds Banking Group, said average pocket money fell to 5.89 pounds ($9.23) a week in 2010 from 6.24 pounds in 2009. The new figure is the lowest weekly sum since 2003 when parents paid an average of 5.79 pounds. 
Children's pocket money has fallen despite a small rise in their parents' wages over the past year. Average weekly pay in Britain in the three 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
The University Counseling Center will sponsor Peace of Mind: The Art of Mindful Relaxation today at 4:05 p.m. This program is designed to help you help you to manage stress and clear your mind. It will take place in the Saint Liam Hall Conference Room. 
In conjunction with National Hispanic Heritage Month, the MSPS Fine Arts Lecture Series will begin with American Politics in the 21st Century: The Latino Vote. This lecture will take place today at 7 p.m. in the McKenna Auditorium. Professors from var­ious schools will share their per­spectives of Latinos' roles and influences in American politics in the new century. 
The seminar "Engineering in 2030: How the Engineering Profession Is Changing" will take place tomorrow at 3:30 p.m. This is the next installment in the Fall 2010 Seminar Series — Challenges and Innovation in Civil and Environmental Engineering.It will take place in 138 DeBartolo Hall. 
The 2010 Rev. Bernie Clark, 
C.S.C. Lecture "Globally Engaging Charity in Truth" will take place tomorrow at 7:15 p.m. in Andrews Auditorium, Geddes Hall. The speaker will be Ken Hackett, President of Catholic Relief Services. 
The lunch session Fostering Global Citizenship Learning Community will take place Friday at noon in the Geddes Hall Coffee House. Subsequent Global Citizenship lunch sessions are scheduled for the second Friday of each month for the 2010–11 academic year. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Saturday Sunday 

months to July was 431 pounds excluding bonuses, 
1.8 percent more than a year earlier. 
Parents paid daughters less pocket money than sons, in a parallel to the gender gap in the earnings of grownups. 
Dresses, weddings and parties — it’s a dog’s life 
BERLIN — A German woman has come up with a novel idea to give dogs going to weddings or festivals a bit of style. 
Nicole-Juliana Schrei-Jakobi has discovered a new market: clothing for dogs. They can now look the part at the Oktoberfest in Lederhosen and dirndls --a traditional dress with a blouse, bodice and apron. 
The 36-year-old even has a dog buggy so her own Maltese dog does not get trampled in the crowds of people congregating at Bavaria's annual beer festi­val. 
For male dogs invited to a wedding she offers dinner jackets with ties, whilst females can don bridal dress­es replete with veils and trains or bridesmaid outfits. buyers. 
Her own dog, Emmily, who recently won first prize for the best-dressed dog in the contest "Germany's next dog model," will be wearing one of the bridesmaid dresses soon. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 


Today Tonight Thursday Friday 





CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
Wednesday, September 22, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 3 page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 22, 2010 

Daly accepts position to be head of task force 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editor 
The University announced earlier this week that 2010 Notre Dame alumnae Mary Daly has been appointed to the newly created position of coordinator for University Life Initiatives. 
Daly, a former president of the University’s Right to Life club, will be in charge of implement­ing the rec­
ommenda ­tions set forth by last year’s Task Force on Supporting the Choice of Life. 
“I am very pleased with the University’s decision to create this position and I’m grateful and honored to have been invited to work with the University on this,” Daly said. 
Daly will serve as a liaison between various University units to facilitate collabora­tion on life issues and will also work to deepen the sanc­tity for life within the Notre Dame community and beyond, according to the press release. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins created the pro-life task force a year ago to make recommendations on how the University can sup­port the sanctity of life. 
“I would like to thank the members of the task force for their exemplary service over the course of the last aca­demic year,” Fr. Jenkins said, “and I look forward to contin­ued progress in this impor­tant area as we work togeth­er in future years.” 
The task force was created partially in response to the controversy over President Obama’s 2009 Commencement Address. 
As an undergraduate, Daly was a leader of ND Response, a student group that held 


Race 
continued from page 1 
San Antonio, which raised $2,200 for the United Way, Blitch said. 
The course last year took stu­dents to the far reaches of cam­pus, including the Aquatic Center, DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, and various parking lots. 
“Last year’s race was very successful,” Blitch said. “Those who participated had a fun time.” 
Blitch said the Bookstore hopes to raise even more money for the United Way at the Race for New York. 
“It may not happen this year, but we’d like to see this event eventually raise $5,000 for United Way,” she said. 
This year, the course will bring participants to different parts of the Notre Dame cam­pus, including some areas they may have never visited before. 
“There is nothing people won’t be able to do physically,” Blitch said. “We have our staff run it, so we know it’s all possible.” 
Blitch said it has been difficult prayerful protests opposing the administration’s decision to invite Obama. The group also requested to meet with Jenkins regarding the issue, but was denied. 
Jenkins withdrew his invita­tion to meet with the group because “they issued a set of demands as a precondition to meeting,” University spokesman Dennis Brown said in an April 17, 2009, issue of The Observer. 
John Cavadini, the McGrath-Cavadini Director of the Institute of Church Life, will oversee Daly’s position and said the sanctity of life is more important than past disagreements. 
“We all must learn to dis­agree respectfully when nec­essary, yet work together on issues of profound impor ­tance. Mary and I share a deep commitment to the sanctity of life,” he said. “As a student, she was a respon­sible and energetic leader on campus, and now I am delighted to work with her … on current and new initia­tives related to life issues.” 
Daly said her previous con­flict with the administration would not affect her ability to perform in her new position. 
Daly said part of the task force’s recommendation was to create more permanent structures to coordinate pro-life efforts in the long term. One of her first initiatives will be to assist in the organiza­tion of a faculty advisory committee on life initiatives, which will be chaired by Cavadini. 
Daly also plans to strength­en the University’s supportive policies for pregnant and par­enting students and to create academic scholarship related to life issues across campus. 
Daly’s office will be in the Institute for Church Life. She will report to Cavadini and through him as well as reporting to Jenkins. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
keeping specific details of the race in complete secrecy. The planning team has been cau­tious not to reveal the names of the various campus partners. 
“We started mapping out the route on a campus map, but you have to be careful not to leave that map out anywhere or someone could have a cake­walk,” she said. 
Blitch encouraged students to participate, because for just a small fee you can have a great time, donate to a good cause, and get a shot at winning a $2,000 prize package. 
“[Students] are at an advan­tage,” Blitch said. “This is their campus. For 25 bucks a person you get to see if you can win a chance to go to New York.” 
For those concerned about Notre Dame’s football game against Boston College, Blitch said, “there’s no need to worry. The race will be over well in time for the BC game.” 
Students interested in partici­pating can contact Blitch at 
(574) 631-6469 by Sept. 24. or visit HammesRaceTo.com for more information. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens @nd.edu 
Forum 
continued from page 1 
effect on the developing world. 
“’Caritas In Veritate’ is about people-centered economics,” Pfeil said in her speech. “The encyclical tells us that social jus­tice is possible.” 
Pfeil said Pope Benedict relied heavily on the concept of the universal destination of created goods throughout “Caritas,” and this should be a guiding concept for all people when concerning the role of the marketplace in today’s economy. 
“God is the giver of all creation and humans respond to his gifts, primarily the gift of life,” she said. “He tells us that humans need to exercise responsibility in the world.” 
Pfeil said signs of the current times speak to a disregard for universal responsibility, which elicits the need for more than a change in perspective. 
“The ongoing crisis shows there is an urgent moral need for a new solidarity, especially between developing and indus­trial nations,” she said. 
While Pfeil focused on building a social conscious, Evans approached how the market sys­tem itself can be used to achieve the goals laid out in “Caritas.” 
see FORUM/page 5 


Wednesday, September 22, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
College holds accounting awards reception 
Anderson/KPMG Award. “It was an honor to win an personal and corporate tax. to succeed more because I have 
By ALICIA SMITH 

Dobihal said the award was award and be in the presence “It was a really nice ceremo-people behind me believing in 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 

given to the student with the of professors and their alumnae ny, and it was a great honor to me.” 
highest grade in both principles committed to academic success receive an award from the Though only a few students 
Five students received of financial accounting and and who have been successful accounting program,” Jones receive awards each year, the awards Sept. 14 during the principles of managerial in their accounting careers,” said. majority of the accounting stu­annual accounting awards accounting. Reed said. Senior Amanda Gajor was the dents attend the reception, reception held in Stapleton “I feel truly blessed that God In addition, senior Maureen recipient of the Ernst & Young Jones said. Lounge in Le Mans Hall at Saint has given me the intelligence Temchuk won the Deloitte award. “The Saint Mary’s accounting Mary’s College. necessary to succeed here at Award. Gajor said the award was for awards ceremony is a great 
The students were recognized Saint Mary’s, and I am honored Temchuk said the award was the student who was most like-tradition,” Temchuk said. “It for their 
that I was 
for the stu-
ly to succeed 
allows others achievements 
chosen to dent who had in public 

to recognize within the 
accounting. 

those stu­accounting 
receive the highest 

dents who department 
this average The student 
award,” grade in two who received 

have gone at the 
the award 

above and College. 
Dobih al semesters of beyond in 
The awards said. 
intermediate was the most 
Senior accounting. 
well rounded 

their time at were given to 
“It was a who per-

Saint Mary’s. one junior 
Betsy Reed 

The faculty and four Dobihal the Reed to receive Temchuk across the Jones is devoted to Gajor seniors to this award board in their stu­recognize outstanding achieve-PricewaterhouseCooper Award because it was a validation of accounting classes. dents and love giving outstand­ment in the principles of for accounting leadership. all the hard work I put into “It was exciting to know that ing student achievement the accounting, intermediate According to Reed, she both my major and the inter-all the hard work I put in was opportunity to shine. It’s that accounting, public accounting, received the award due to her mediate courses,” Temchuk recognized,” Gajor said. devotion that makes our school accounting leadership and per-involvement on campus, within said. She said the award pushes such a special place.” sonal and corporate tax. the Business and Economic Senior Marianne Jones was her to succeed. 
Junior Peggy Dobihal was the Department and her strong awarded the Crow Horwath “It gave me motivation,” Contact Alicia Smith at recipient of the Bridget grade point average (GPA). Award for the highest grades in Gajor said. “It makes me want asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
received great honor formed well 


Saint Mary’s to host ‘Tailgate’ 
By ALISON MEAGHER 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary’s Student Activites Board (SAB) will host a Twilight Tailgate on Library Green this Thursday at 9 p.m. 
“Twilight Tailgate has been a traditional event each year that has varied from outdoor movies to concerts,” SAB president Allie Courtney said. 
This year, SAB will be screen­ing “Toy Story 3” and serving caramel apples, apple cider, hot cocoa and popcorn. 
“Toy Story 3” was chosen because it was most readily available through Swank Motion Pictures Incorporated, the company through which SAB purchases movies, Courtney said. 
“We also picked ‘Toy Story 3’ because of its popularity this summer and it seems like a movie that fits perfectly with the culture on campus,” she said. 
The event is free to all Saint Mary’s, Notre Dame and Holy Cross students. 

The first 400 students to arrive will receive a free fleece blanket. 
SAB receives a certain allot­ment of money from the Student Government Association (SGA) a year in order to pay for student events, Courtney said. 
Courtney said the Board has been trying to create new events and enhance old ones, and that she wants SAB to establish a name on campus. 
“SAB’s goal is to increase par­ticipation, variety and volume at all of this year’s events,” Courtney said. 
SAB is currently planning an Oktoberfest on campus, a screening of the sixth Harry Potter film before the new Harry Potter movie release and arranging artists for Spring Tostal. 
“This is our second big event of the year,” Courtney said. “We are really excited and hope a lot of people come out.” 
Contact Alison Meagher at ameagh01@saintmarys.edu 
Officialsdiscusscampuswatersupply 
By CASEY KENNY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students might wonder why the water from dif­ferent campus drinking fountains may differ in taste. A drink of water from a drinking fountain in the Rock might taste quite dif­ferently than that from a foun­tain in DeBartolo or a residence hall. 
Mike McCauslin, assistant director of the Risk Management and Safety Department (RMSD), the entity responsible for moni­toring and sampling the University’s water supply, offered several explanations for the dis­parity in the taste of water from various drinking fountains. 
“The taste of drinking fountain water depends on a variety of components,” McCauslin said. “Taste depends on the location of the well, the age of the pipe and the amount of time the water sits in the pipe.” 
There are six wells serving the water system, all of which are located on the campus proper. The water is drawn from deep aquifers surrounded by substan­tial clay barriers that serve to protect the groundwater supply, according to the RMSD’s 2009 Annual Drinking Water Quality Report. 
“The wells are high in minerals and, depending on the well, the iron and manganese levels can fluctuate,” McCauslin said. “When water sits in a pipe for an extended period of time, these minerals can precipitate out and cause this different taste.” 
The change is taste may not please students, but McCauslin said it isn’t harmful. 
“While these minerals might create an objectionable aesthetic in the water, they present no health concern and have no effect on the water quality,” McCauslin said. 
RMSD carries out routine mon­itoring and sampling of water on campus for harmful contami­nants and, together with Notre Dame’s Department of Facility Operations, has added filters on several drinking fountains — all done just for aesthetic reasons. 
According to Paul Kempf, director of utilities for the Office of Business Operations, his office works closely with RMSD to ensure the safety of campus drinking water. 
“We don’t treat our water like most municipalities, which sim­ply add chlorine,” Kempf said. “A lot of the research done on cam­pus needs water without chlorine and we ensure quality by testing rather than adding chlorine.” 
Water taste varies from indi­vidual to individual, particularly those with sensitive taste buds. 
According to McCauslin, there is a step that students can take to improve the taste of water from the drinking fountains. 
“Taste often depends on the frequency of use: the more you use the fountain, the better the water will taste,” McCauslin said. “Let the water run for 15 to 20 seconds and this should improve the taste.” 
Sophomore Ryan Lynch has his preferences on where he gets his drinking water. 
“I am not a big fan of some of the water fountains on campus and usually stock up on water bottles, but the ones in the dorms are alright and taste good,” Lynch said. 
Others are not so willing to spend their money on bottled water. 
“I try not to buy bottles of water so if the taste of the water from some fountains bothers me, I just get it from the dining hall,” senior Shannon Coyne said. 
Contact Casey Kenny at ckenny@nd.edu 

Notre Dame alumnus Bishop appointed to VP position 
Special to The Observer 
Donald C. Bishop, a long-time admissions leader in higher education and a University of Notre Dame graduate, has been appointed associate vice presi­dent for undergraduate enroll­ment at Notre Dame, effective Dec. 1. He succeeds Daniel J. Saracino, who retired in June. 
In addition to directing the Office of Undergraduate Admissions, Bishop will oversee the Office of Student Financial Services, a new collaboration that will help Notre Dame attract and recruit highly tal­ented students whose interests and aspirations align with the University’s mission as a Catholic university. 
“Don Bishop brings broad experience, honed skills, and a deep understanding of Notre Dame to this position” said Thomas G. Burish, Notre Dame’s provost. “He has been highly effective in advancing the enrollment objectives at each university he has served, and doing so in a way consis­tent with the culture of the institution. He has used innova­tive marketing and financial aid strategies to help attract and recruit superb entering classes. 
“Don also understands, and is committed to, the special mis­sion of Notre Dame. I very much look forward to working with him as we build upon the momentum that Dan Saracino established during his 13-year tenure.” 
Rev. John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., Notre Dame’s president, added: “As an alumnus and the parent of a Notre Dame graduate, Don has a deep love for this institu­tion and appreciates the dis­tinctive educational opportuni­ties that Notre Dame offers as a premier Catholic research uni­versity. I am delighted to wel­come him back to his alma mater.” 
After earning a bachelor’s degree in economics from Notre Dame, Bishop began working in the University’s admissions office in 1977. 
Later, as associate director of the office, he initiated the University’s first comprehen­sive marketing research activi­ty for admissions and financial aid, which led to increased recruitment initiatives and improved results. During that time he also earned a master’s degree in economics from the University and served on the Alumni Association ’s Board of Directors. 
In 1985, Bishop was appoint­ed dean of enrollment manage­ment at Ohio Wesleyan University, where over the next decade he successfully recruit­ed more academically talented students who were drawn to the institution’s commitment to service. 
From 1996 to 2002, Bishop served as the associate dean of students and enrollment man­agement at the Cornell University School of Hotel Administration, the world’s leading school in the field. During these years, the aca­demic profile as well as the stu­dent’s leadership and entrepre­neurial abilities achieved record levels. 
Bishop was the associate vice president for enrollment man­agement at Creighton University from 2002 to 2009, helping the Catholic university reach historic highs in fresh­man enrollment and doubling the number of students of color. 

page 6 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, September 22, 2010 Wednesday, September 22, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 7 

“The influence of special 

Elections 
interest groups on congres­sional votes is huge, and the 
continued from page 1 
one group who is not repre­
sented is the ordinary peo-Republicans. ple,” Storin said. “The one 
Storin said the notion that group who comes close to Democrats could suffer mas-representing these people is sive losses may hold true, but the Tea Party.” a lot of political pundits are Colwell started his commen­biased by personal investment tary by overturning the mis-in the election. conception that political races 
“A lot of predictions and don’t gear up until after analysis is colored by what Labor Day, stating some races people want to happen,” he have been determined as said. early as Labor Day of last 
Storin also said this election year. is unique in that polls are He also said part of the showing that voters are GOP’s expected success increasingly dissatisfied with involves how women usually their own representatives in tend to vote Democrat. Congress. He said under nor-“The Republican tide start­mal circumstances Americans ed to become a tsunami. The don’t approve of Congress as enthusiasm gap involves the a whole but support their rep-gender gap,” he said. “Polls resentatives. now show females are less 
Despite the Democrat’s likely to get to the polls. They troubles, Storin said there is seem disillusioned.” some hope for the party. Colwell said the main ques­
“We live in a time of short tion for this election is the attention spans. Maybe by margin of victory Republicans November people might swing will ultimately enjoy. the other way,” he said. “It’s going to be a 
Storin mentioned enthusi-Republican year, there is no 
credits to graduate with two He instead graduated from the asm is off-pace for doubt about it,” he said. 
degrees – in electrical engineering University of St. Mary in San 
Rogers 

and psychology. Antonio in 2007. the probable decline in the size of their victory.” 
Democrats, mainly because of “What we’re talking about is 
continued from page 1 Between earning a dual degree “It was so hard to get back in. I turnout of young voters. Colwell said the local con-
and having to repeat his junior was competing with a pool of “There is going to be a huge gressional race between cur-
despite Rogers’ Notre Dame year, Rogers had no choice but to greater talent,” Rogers said. “I drop-off in younger voters,” rent congressman Joe Donelly 
dreams, his parents pushed him stay at the University for two and was accepted three times in the he said. “That is seen as one and challenger Jackie 
to attend West Point instead, he a half years. 1970s, then rejected 11 times. reason why Democrats are Walorski could be one that 
said. So Rogers joined the military “That was fine with me, Then I came back strong like a expected to suffer.” ultimately decides whether 
academy, where he continued to because it gave me an extra fighter and got in.” Storin added that one of the the House turns Republican 
wrestle — and finally tried out semester at Notre Dame and an Rogers is now a student in the reasons this election is viewed or remains Democrat, and 
boxing for the first time. extra year to fight in the Bengal Master of Laws (LL.M.) in as a defining election is that between $10 and $20 million 
“West Point has a full boxing Bouts,” Rogers said. International Human Rights. the majority party typically could be spent between the 
program, required for all first-After graduating, Rogers pur-That’s not the only change in his loses an average of 12 seats two campaigns. 
year cadets,” Rogers said. “Most sued a business career, but that life — Rogers married for the first in midterm elections. “The congressional race 
cadets wanted nothing to do with was not enough, he said. As early time in August 2009. “Americans like divided here is one of the premier 
it, but I got an ‘A’ in the class.” as 1987, he became interested in “I met Michelle at my 30-year government,” he said. “Right house races in the country,” 
Rogers didn’t join the West a law career. West Point reunion,” Rogers said. now, they don’t have divided he said. 
Point boxing team, but instead “I was doing it all for me, with “As a former Marine, she has the government.” Nickerson spoke on the 
continued with varsity wrestling. my corporate career and as a spirit to back me in this some-Despite this, he said the importance of campaigns and 
Although he loved West Point, bachelor for all those years,” what unusual endeavor. She’s a long-term impact of the elec-turnout, saying ultimately it is 
Rogers’ dream of attending Notre Rogers said. He kept thinking of part of my story now.” tion, especially in terms of not what the candidates do 
Dame refused to die — but trans-his father, an FBI agent, who Muhammed Ali, West Point how it might impact the presi-that matters as much as the 
ferring schools was much harder worked to protect civil rights in classmates and Rogers’ dad all dent, is being overstated. state of the nation. 
than it sounds. the 1960s South. influenced his quest to win the “Even though Obama is get-“The campaign stuff doesn’t 
“I had family pressures keeping “As an FBI agent, my dad was Bengal Bouts tournament — but ting criticized a lot, he still is matter,” he said. “What does 
me at West Point, and the military the enemy in some of those today, his wife is his biggest sup-at a 46 percent approval rat-matter is the state of the 
had invested in me so they want-Southern states,” Rogers said. port, Rogers said. ing in tough times,” Storin economy and how happy peo­
ed me to stay,” Rogers said. “Most “He investigated kidnappings, dis-“She believes in me,” Rogers said. “It is hard to predict that ple are.” 
of all, West Point is paid for by a appearances and burnings of said. “She believes that I’m going a strong Republican result Part of the reason that cam-
government scholarship. Who black people.” to achieve what I want to could impact him down the paigning is difficult is the very 
was going to pay for Notre Rogers’ dad helped keep the achieve.” line in two years.” nature of convincing people to 
Dame?” peace during the Little Rock, Ark., After the influence that others Storin closed his commen-change personal or political 
Despite the pressures, Rogers school integration, Rogers said, have had on his quest, Rogers tary with some discussion of views. 
finally transferred after his junior and in 1952 he was in a gunfight says it is his turn to inspire others. the Tea Party. He said the “Persuasion is super hard. 
year at West Point, but main-on the streets of Manhattan with “I will be fighting on behalf of political group has had some People are pretty set as 
tained close connections to his a criminal on the 10 Most Wanted the missions, on behalf of myself slip ups, but could make some Democrats or Republicans,” 
West Point classmates. list. and on behalf of every 40-plus­strong gains this November, Nickerson said. 
“The West Point community has “My dad had a very colorful year-old guy that wants to get a doing more good for the Nickerson’s closing state-
been very supportive, giving me career,” Rogers said. “This was vicarious thrill out of this,” Rogers Republicans than bad. ments related the nature of 
advice on how to box, and espe-dangerous work. It was about said. “Life doesn’t end at 40 or “You could make a point campaigns to go after specific 
cially on how to box at my age,” fighting abuse of authority and 50.” that there is harm [to the voters to the enthusiasm gap 
Rogers said. “I have some distinct protecting human rights. So as a Republicans], but they are Democrats are suffering from. 
advantages and I intend to use law student, civil rights became The third and final installment creating a great deal of “When they target their 
them.” my focus.” of this series will examine Rogers’ excitement in some states messages, they are very nar-
Rogers paid for his entire Notre Rogers’ dad inspired him to go current life as a Notre Dame with more conventional can-rowly targeted,” he said. 
Dame education out of his own to law school and to use his box-graduate student and his goal of didates,” he said. “This makes the enthusiasm 
pocket. Although he had earned ing skill to help the Holy Cross winning Bengal Bouts in 2011. It 

He said the reason the Tea gap very important.” 
116.5 class credits at West Point, Missions in Bangladesh, Rogers will run in tomorrow’s Observer. Party has enjoyed recent suc-
Notre Dame’s rules required said. But after several rejections, cess is that it embodies apa-Contact Sam Stryker at 
Rogers to enter Notre Dame as a Rogers gave up on Notre Dame Contact Tess Civantos at thy. sstryke1@nd.edu 
junior, so he used those extra Law School. tcivanto@nd.edu 

Forum 
continued from page 4 
“’Caritas In Veritate’ picks up on the importance of trade after the ferocious development we’ve seen over the past 40 years,” Evans said. “Much of this trade is coming from the developing world.” 
While “Caritas” may be viewed as an attack on markets, Evans said Benedict actually expounded on the benefits of globalization and how it brought a new level of awareness to the world’s poor that had not previously been seen. 
The rapid development of trade combined with more global awareness of world poverty brought about an opportunity where economic development and globalization can be used to actually improve the lives of those living in poverty, Evans said. 
“In a lot of circles, the phrase ‘economic growth’ is considered to have a dirty connotation,” he said. “But for others in the devel­oping world, it can mean the dif­ference between going hungry or not, or watching your child reach his first birthday.” 
Evans told the students that it was their job to think about what effect their “everyday decisions” have on the developing world, but he also addressed the nega­tive aspects that inevitably come as a result of globalization. However, he said there is no easy answer to these problems and the simplest solution may lie in the development itself. 
Cassel said he believed the greatest way for students to address these issue was to be truly informed about the global economy and to understand the relationship the Catholic Church has with the market. 
“There has always been a bal­ance between the Church and the market,” he said. “The Church has never worshiped the market as a cure-all to the world’s prob­lems, but they have also never declared it to be an instrument of pure evil either.” 
Cassel said he thinks “Caritas In Veritate” stated that the mar­ket is subjective to communica­tive justice. 
“We admit the market can be a negative force bus only because a certain ideology can make it so,” he said. 
Cassel focused his talk on real-world examples and how specific marketplaces hurt global devel­opment when they try and fur­ther their own country’s interests by unethical and even illegal means. 
“You should not for a single second believe China is the suc­cess of the free-market system, because it is not free,” he said. “China purposely keeps its cur­rency weak, thereby creating a false trade market. When coun­tries do this, they prevent other countries from access to markets that they desperately need.” 
Knowing the truth about China’s market system is one example of several instances where Cassel believes students need to be educated in order to succeed at understanding morali­ty’s role in the global market­place. 
“Part of the answer to these problems is what you’re doing tonight,” he said in his closing remarks. “You need to be informed. You need to use your faith so that you care. And most importantly, you need to act.” 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Wednesday, September 22, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Musical time capsule 
A strange phenomenon in popular music is its ability to capture and become eternally correlated with periods in our life. Without our con­scious control, certain songs become forever linked 
to periods in Matthew Robison our lives 
Sports
because of their 
Production 
inherently over­played and finite Editor nature. 

One of my fondest memories of my first semester freshman year was the inevitable blaring of the Miley Cyrus classic “Party in the USA” at one point (or several) during a dorm party. Other songs, such as the Black Eyed Peas’ “I Gotta Feeling,” Jay Sean’s “Down,” Jason DeRulo’s “Whatcha Say” and Ke$ha’s “Tik Tok” will also forever conjure up dorm party memories from freshman year for me. 
Maybe I just have not realized it yet, but that song has not been pres­ent yet this year. There have been songs with serious potential, such as Katy Perry’s “Teenage Dream” and Taio’s Cruz’s “Dynamite” but we have no definitive musical time capsules. 
There are several reasons why this could be. Primarily, now that I am a big, bad sophomore, I do not attend nearly as many dorm parties as I did my first few weeks as a freshman. Secondly, it is only a month into school and no song has really had time to catch enough traction to become party-viral. The one other possibility is that no musician has been able to put out a song that has the immediate dance party appeal combined with the perfect amount of staying power. The correct mixture of an infectious beat, autotune and lyrics that could be memorized by an amnesiac has not been reached. 
In order to solve this situation, we can wait for an artist to put out that song, or we can decide amongst our­selves to create it. The latter is my suggestion. 
Be that guy who causes his room­mate to roll his eyes every time he walks in the room because you are playing the same song over and over as loud as your MacBook Pro will allow. Be the person who puts the same song once every seven songs on your “Dance Party” playlist on iTunes. Be the slightly drunk girl or group of girls who hijacks a carefully prepared playlist to play your favorite song. That’s right. Risk being annoying to your roommate, maligned by party hosts and generally overbearing with your dedication to one awful song. 
A few possibilities: “F*** You” by Cee Lo Green and a song that has been around but one that I feel never got the play it deserved, “Like a G6” by the Far East Movement. But be sure to check out those songs if you have not — they have potential. 
Maybe the song of Fall Semester 2010 will present itself organically, and maybe that’s the way it should be. Forcing the issue may be against the true nature of these songs. However, I’m afraid that if we do not act soon, this semester will be swept away in time, forever lost in our musical memory. That I cannot bear to accept. To modify one of Maximus Decimus Meridius’ famous lines in Gladiator, “What songs we listen to repetitively in life echo in eternity.” 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
Counterculture 

I’ve had many discussions with friends about Notre Dame’s lack of ‘counterculture’ or ‘alternative lifestyles’ or whatever you want to call it. But recently I had an epiphany: Notre Dame does indeed Brooks Smith have a counter-
Intellectual 

culture, in the sense that many of the core beliefs shared by this culture go very much against prevailing trends outside “the Notre Dame bubble.” I would single out the Irish Rover as one of the premier exponents of this counterculture — the voice thereof, if you will. 
The Irish Rover is quite possibly the only “alternative” publication at Notre Dame. 
The only other potential “alterna­tive” publication was mass e-mailed anonymously to Notre Dame kids sometime starting in fall 2009, and stopped production at the end of spring 2010, when the would-be Jonathan Swift apparently graduated. The Prodigal Son was an all-out attack on Notre Dame, the liberal version of the Irish Rover. Where the Irish Rover desperately strove to overcome its low readership, The Prodigal Son reveled in its pseudo-underground trappings, even featur­ing a masked man holding up a big sack of marijuana at the end of its first issue. Shocking and edgy, amirite? 
The most interesting thing is that these two publications were much more similar than they were differ-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
ent, even if the Irish Rover’s inspira­tions were Rush Limbaugh, FOX News and St. Augustine, where the Prodigal Son’s were Maddox, Christopher Hitchens and the Internet. The com­mon element is tone: self-congratula­tion for ‘getting it.’ The best evidence of this tone in the Rover is in the masthead, which states with no hint of irony, “It behooves a watchdog to bark. Good, Rover.” The best evidence of this in the Prodigal Son is the extended story about a business major experiencing romantic rejec­tion in Club Fever. (Fever-bashing is a fresh and relevant form of humor.) 
In both cases, the critiques of the larger culture seemed more rooted in personal disappointment than responsive to actual social need; and sadly enough, in neither case were the critiques funny. Obviously the sec­ond point is more important than the first. 
What initially tripped me up in con­sidering Notre Dame’s ‘countercultur­al elements’ was the innate assump­tion that counterculture equals hip, cool and interesting. As often as not, ‘counterculture’ is more or less an elaborate structure of inside jokes, signs and countersigns, which is unintelligible to outsiders; and “cool­ness” is merely a measure of how badly those outsiders want to get “on the inside” and understand. Smug self-congratulation can actually be an asset to “cool” “scenes” in terms of making “outsiders” feel like “huge losers.” 
Unfortunately, where outsiders experience no discernible attraction from the outside, these scenes tend to remain the same size. The Prodigal Son, where the size of the scene was one person, forms an extreme version of this. The Irish Rover’s scene is of course bigger (to be extremely gener­ous, say one in 40 undergraduates) but still not on its way to any sort of growth. And that’s probably the way both scenes like; it preserves the aura of exclusivity, even if the number of applicants is zero. 
So why aren’t there any other “alternative” publications, given the profusion of smart, driven Notre Dame students? I think the answer is that most of the smart, driven stu­dents are looking for jobs that will make them millions of dollars, to be completely reductive and overgener­al. Many students may not be like that, but it seems like people are busy enough here that they don’t have the time or energy to put one more con­straint on their lives — starting and running a consistently entertaining, interesting and useful indie student publication. In any case, that’s my theory for why we don’t have one of those things. As for why everyone at Notre Dame dresses basically the same and why everyone’s social life revolves around football Saturdays … that’s a topic for another editorial. 
Brooks Smith is a senior. He can be contacted at bsmith26@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Man’s mind, once stretched by anew idea, never regains its originaldimensions.” 
Oliver Wendell Holmes American author 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Life is a risk.” 
Diane Von FurstenbergBelgian-American fashion designer 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, September 22, 2010 page 9 
The Latino vote 
Tonight Multicultural Student Programs and Services (MSPS), the Institute for Latino Studies, the Rooney Center for the Study of American Democracy and the Center for Social Concerns will host a panel discussion Maxx Paez titled, “American 
Guest
Politics in the 21st 

Colum ist
Century: The Latino Vote.” The event is open to the public and it is scheduled to begin at 7 p.m. in McKenna Hall Auditorium with a recep­tion to follow at the conclusion of the event. 
Dianne Pinderhughes, the President’s Distinguished Professor in the Departments of Political Science and African Studies, will moderate the four person panel which includes: Michael Jones-Correa, Matt Barreto, Maria Torres and Ricardo Ramirez. Michael Jones-Correa is Professor of Government at Cornell University. He is the co-author of Latino Lives in America: Making It Home (Temple 2010), the author of “Between Two Nations: The Political Predicament of Latinos in New York City” (Cornell, 1998) and the editor of “Governing American Cities: Interethnic Coalitions, Competition, and Conflict” (Russell Sage Foundation, 2001), as well as the author of more than two dozen articles and chapters on immigration, race, eth­nicity and citizenship in the United States. Matt A. Barreto is an Associate Professor of political science at the University of Washington in Seattle, and he is currently the Director of the Washington Institute for the Study of Ethnicity and Race. Matt specializes in Latino and immigrant voting behavior, and teaches courses on Racial and Ethnic Politics, Latino Politics, Voting and Elections and American Politics at UW. Maria Torres is the Director and Professor of Latin American and Latino Studies at the University of Illinois in Chicago. She is author of two books, “The Lost Apple: Operation Pedro Pan, Cuban Children in the U.S. and the Promise of a Better Future.” Currently she is a co-Principal Investigator for another book on Youth Politics in the Age of Globalization, funded by Chapin Hall and the Kellogg Foundation and was Co-PI for a National Science Research Foundation Project: Civic Engagement in Three Latino Neighborhoods. Ricardo Ramirez is a Visiting Associate Professor at Notre Dame’s political science department. He studies diversity in politics by analyzing differences among Latino voters and 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Cheer for Old Notre Dame 
The class of 1964 holds the current record for most losses at 25. The class of 2011 has witnessed 23, and we are only three games into our fourth year. 
Don’t tell me it’s been a tough season. We’ve been giving our players, our school, and our tradition their due for three years straight. We’ve been rewarded with heartbreaking losses, a bowl game in Hawaii that no students could reasonably travel to and an overall ransacking of tradition. We’ve lost 23 football games, the Dillon pep rally (the real one), and pep rallies in the JACC (which students actually attend­ed). 
I will continue to support our team as fervently as possibly. I personally believe everyone should be cheering their hearts out for the entire three to four hours of the game on a football Saturday. But don’t tell me that you can’t understand why a senior might be less enthusiastic after these last three years. 
Mike Carter 
senior off campus Sept. 21 

Gingrich Visit to ND 
Notre Dame policies and Notre Dame double stan­dards never cease to amaze and appall those of us who work here: just two days after we faculty and staff received a letter reminding us of the policy that prohibits using university funds to sponsor partisan speakers to campus, Notre Dame received the Republican poster-boy Newt Gingrich, who was in town to “Stump for Walorski” according to today's South Bend Tribune. 
Great use of university subsidies, to pay for Newt's trip to town. Great way to reveal the double stan­dard operating on this campus and its non-partisan politics. 
Julia Douthwaite 

faculty Romance Languages and Literature Sept. 21 
patterns of political mobilization by nat­uralized Latinos. His work is part of a larger effort by the political science department of the College of Letters, Arts and Sciences to understand the nuances of the state’s diverse electorate by watching how African Americans, Asians and Latinos cast their political opinions. 
Ricardo Ramirez notes that, after studying the data from the 2008 general election, it is evident that the number of Latinos voting soared to historic levels. There was a large influx of young Latino voters, along with many natural­ized Latinos submitting their votes for the first time. Since 2006, these two fac­tors have heavily influenced the tremen­dous growth in the number of Latinos eligible to vote in elections. As for the 2010 midterm elections, Ramirez states that he expects this trend to continue. Although it is difficult to predict which party most Latinos will align with for the 2010 midterm election, Ramirez’s research reveals that Latino voting pat­terns are heavily influenced by the level of interaction they experience with political candidates. He also details, “Given that it will be an interesting race between a Republican, a Democrat and an Independent candidate, the Latino vote could heavily influence the out­come of the election.” Based on data Ramirez has collected from previous elections, Ramirez believes that the overall number of Latinos participating in the 2010 midterm election will large­ly reflect the participation rates of the general population. Ramirez elaborates, “Similar to the general population, in states that are very competitive, you will have more Latinos coming out to vote, while in states that are not com­petitive, you will have less Latinos vot­ing.” In the next 15-20 years, the Latino voting landscape should mirror the cur­rent growth trends, both in the number of Latinos eligible to vote and the num­ber of Latinos participating in elections. However, Ramirez admits that it is very difficult to forecast which party the majority of Latinos will choose to align with down the road. 
The discussion, “American Politics in the 21st Century: The Latino Vote,” will further explore these topics, in addition to others, as Ricardo Ramirez and the other panelists share more of their research. 
Maxx Paez is a junior. He can be con­tacted at mpaez@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The point of the gospel of life 
We would like to tactfully contest some points Mr. Mullen brought up in the discussion of Mr. Williams’ editorial (“Gingrich is not Obama” Sept 20). Regarding the death penalty, Mr. Mullen’s quotation of Church teaching is correct, but he makes a very common mis­interpretation. While it is true that the Church believes the death penalty to be defensible in some cases, in which it is “the only possible way of defending human lives against the unjust aggressor,” that should not be a concern in the United States today. 
In Biblical times, and in many developing countries, there was/is no other way to protect people from the potential of repeat offenses, but in the U.S. today, we have the sentence of life without parole in a maximum security facility. Also, Mr. Mullen’s connection of the death penalty with self defense is illogical because self defense is a defense used in criminal court for a crime committed in order to protect oneself from serious bodily harm, while the death penalty is a criminal pun­ishment used in the most serious (or politically charged) murder trials. 
Certainly abortion is a much more salient political issue, but the morality of an issue is not tied to the number of lives lost ... Mr. Mullen seems to be trivializ­ing the legal homicide of 1,200 people. In addition, Mr. Mullen puts words in the mouth of Mr. Williams when he suggests Mr. Williams implied that abortion, capital punishment, waterboarding and health care access all lie in the same moral field. Rather, it seems to us that Mr. Williams is simply curious to see if Mr. Gingrich’s visit would go completely unnoticed, considering the constant scrutiny on Notre Dame about upholding Catholic tradition. If putting an end to abortion is the only issue that Catholics are willing to stand up and fight for, we are missing the point of the gospel of life. 
Michael O’Brien 
sophomore Knott Hall Sept. 20 

Give me a reason to shake up the thunder 
I am writing in response to Todd Velianski’s letter to The Observer (“Shake up the thunder,” Sept. 21). In the letter, Todd expresses his “dismay” over the “abuses” by majority of the upperclassmen not cheering on the foot­ball team enough for his liking. 
Although some may agree with Todd’s desire for more enthusiasm and zeal from the juniors and seniors, I do not believe it is a sentiment shared by many of the upperclassmen. What Todd seems to not understand is how awful the football seasons have been for these upper classmen. This senior class will graduate with the worst four year record in Notre Dame history. We have seen one win against Michigan, zero wins against USC and zero home wins against Navy. That’s right, Navy. Excuse us, Todd, if we no are longer cheering our hearts out for a team that has shown us nothing but disappointment for four years. 
The truth is, tailgating and socializing with your friends is too much fun to let something like the football game ruin it. So, Todd, my friends and I will continue to enjoy ourselves on football Saturdays, throw out the occasional cheer and not get too down when the team loses another game in the last minute. You keep cheering your heart out and see where that gets you. Oh, and you don’t know what a “rough season” is until you’ve experienced 3-9. 
John Harig 
senior off-campus Sept. 21 


The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Wednesday, September 22, 2010 

By MAC HENDRICKSON 
Scene Writer 

Being strange is a tricky business. It’s tough to tell if putting an unmodified profile shot of a character from a recent TV series on your album cover will be well received. Weezer is about to find out. 
Weezer’s new album, following last year’s belly flop “Raditude,” is titled “Hurley” after one of the characters from the recently concluded television series “Lost.” The assumption would be that the allusion to this contemporary character was meant to reveal some­thing about the approach of the songs. 
So who was Hurley? He was an over­weight Cali dude. He was the comic relief for the show. He was probably a Weezer fan. In fact, Jorge Garcia, the actor who played Hurley in “Lost,” admitted that it was more than an honor to have been placed on the album’s cover. 
Suffice it to say, the album appears to be a salute to the lovable dudes in the world in all their average glory. Sound like a Weezer album yet? That’s exactly what it is. 

Front man Rivers Cuomo is at his best in writing catchy neo-punk anthems. The album explodes with the dynamite track “Memories.” The song is a retro­spect of the 90’s, but not in the revisionist-VH1 t e n d e n c y. Weezer was there, making great music and hanging out with the weirdoes — the guys who thought they were Buddy Holly. 
“Trainwrecks” and “Unspoken” are almost as strong as “Memories .” “Unspoken” rises from acoustic punches to a punk rock plea. “Trainwrecks” is a classic Cuomo song about being young and kind of a loser, and how that’s OK. 
The remainder of the tracks taper off into the zone of the likable but forget­table. The few songs that you don’t for­get will be the ones you skip over the second time through. “Where’s My Sex” consists of several statements about sex that appear to actually be about socks. Don’t look for meaning — you might get nauseous. 
“Smart Girls” is a song about, well, smart girls, who are everywhere, like zombies. Cuomo asks, “Where did all these smart girls come from?” If he’s going to make songs about attending 


Harvard, he shouldn’t ask such dumb questions. 
The album’s weakest point is Cuomo’s lyrics. On earlier albums, he was able to pull off his weirdo-conversationalist anthems. Here, the words spit off awk­wardly as garage band lyricism from a teenage front man. Lyrics like “In the rain / in the sun / Everybody / Needs 
someone” almost sound tongue-in-check, and Cuomo’s intentionality is in question. Critically acclaimed neo-folk artist Joe Henry said of his 2007 album “Civilians” that the sound and feel of the music had been structured around a certain black and white photograph, which eventually became the album’s cover. Henry presented his strat­egy as unique. Though most don’t work from cover to music, the idea of matching the album artwork with the over­all feel of the music is actu­ally almost as common as albums them­
selves. 
In this aspect, 
“Hurley” shines. 
The 10 tracks, 
more or less, are 
the soundtrack for 
the life of a 21st-cen­
tury dude, lovable and 
unsophisticated. It’s a 
catchy mix of idiosyncrasy and 
pop. It’s weird and light hearted. It will never change your life, or even your mind. It’s good Thursday night music. Good for, after winning the lottery, riding around with your buddy and savoring the remaining hours of the simple life. It’s Hurley’s music. 
Contact Mac Hendrickson at mhendri1@nd.edu 
SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Wednesday, September 22, 2010 page 11 

Is it Camp Hope, or Camp Hell? Therein lies the central question behind the 1995 fat camp movie “Heavyweights.” 
Most will remember this classic piece of American cinema, billed as “a comedy of gigantic proportions,” from countless reruns on the Disney channel back in the ‘90s. Some may also recognize it as that mo vie at Blockb uster with the kids and the guy in Maija Gustin the giant 

A ssociate Scene 
cheeseburger 

on the co ver. Editor For those unlucky enough to have missed it, you should probably fix that. Like right now. 
“Heavyweights” takes place at the idyllic Camp Hope, a summer camp for overweight boys. Amongst these por tly protagonists are Kenan Thompson (of “Kenan and Kel” and “SNL”), Shaun Weiss (Goldberg from another ‘90s favorite, “The Mighty Ducks”) and Aaron Schwartz (also of “Mighty Ducks” fame, and recently seen on “Gossip Girl”). 
There’s this kind-of famous guy named Ben Stiller you might have heard of, but back in the day, when “Zoolander” wasn’t even a glimmer in someone’s creative lobe, Ben Stiller took on the meaty role of Tony Perkis, new owner of Camp Hope. He “eat[s] success for break­fast ... with skim milk,” but is, per­haps, a little crazy. 
Camp Hope, once a place to spend a fun-filled summer with Go-Karts and the Blob, turns into a living night mare for the boys when Perkis takes the camp in attempt weigh t videos. 



Some would argue that Tony Perkis is the true embodi ­ment of Though could be sidere d the top, ” 
to monkey ” 
The Go ­are the Bl ob stabb (learning 
is as good son as 
out) and 
in fav or Pe rkisizing. 
the glory my steriously eign Lars 
“body” system, discover the lesson “don ’t put Twinkies on your pizza,” find out the real meaning of watch a good vs. evil showdown of epic propor­
tions. 
For those in the know, “lunch has been cancelled due 
to lack of hustle. Deal with it.” Ultimately, “Heavyweights” 
harkens back to a nostalgia 
of days gone by, when Kenan 
was funny, fat camp could be 
more than just a subject for 
“True Life” and the Dis ney 
on quality televi­sion. In those days, a movie didn’t have to be directed by Michael Bay or center on a vampire love story to be deemed quality entertainment. No, all it took was a classic story of 
vs. evil and the fight for the right to eat whatever you want. most importantly of all, “Heavyweights” really does have 
importan t lessons about health, body image and doing your personal best to share with even a modern, sophisticated audience. 
“Heavyweights” can be found on Ebay for a mere 99 cents. You’ve got to lose. So take off your correctness caps for an or so and sit back and enjoy 
the ‘90s were all about: absolutely hilarious, though ridicu­lous, movies that go straight for the funny bone. Oh, and Jeffrey Tambor from “Arrested Development” also makes a few brief appearances. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Maija Gustin 
at 


SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, September 22, 2010 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Status of Cardinal’s Whalen remains mystery 
Associated Press 
STANFORD, Calif. — Stanford coach Jim Harbaugh would not reveal any information Tuesday about the injury that knocked star receiver Ryan Whalen out of last week’s game against Wake Forest. 
“I’m not going to tell you anything,” Harbaugh said when asked about Whalen’s status at his weekly news con­ference. “As soon as we tell you, you tell Notre Dame. There’s no advantage to doing that.” 
Harbaugh has taken a tightlipped approach to injuries this season, revealing as little information as possible in interviews. 
That’s the same approach he is taking with Whalen, who appeared to hurt his left arm while being tackled following a short catch in last Saturday’s 68-24 victory over Wake Forest. 
Whalen was not listed on the three-deep depth chart for the 16th-ranked Cardinal (3-0). But Harbaugh wouldn’t say anything about his status for Saturday’s game at Notre Dame, saying it would give the Fighting Irish a competitive advantage. 
“I would want to know that about the status of every play­er on their team, whether they’re going to play, what per­cent they are, how many plays they’re going to play, how they’re going to be used,” Harbaugh said. “That’s valu­able information.” 
Whalen had 10 catches for 113 yards and one touchdown before being sidelined. Whalen led the team with 57 catches for 926 yards last year and has 109 career receptions for 1,558 yards and six touch­downs. 
He provides even more intan­gible help to an offense that is averaging 51.7 points and 
475.3 yards per game this sea­son. 
“Whales is the leader on offense for us. He’s our cap­tain,” quarterback Andrew Luck said. “He’s been there and done it all at Stanford. It will be a serious blow if he’s out for a while. We have guys who can step in and fill that role. He knows he’s going to have to be out there coaching the guys up. Whatever happens I think we’ll be fine.” 
Cushioning any blow that Whalen’s absence would pres­ent was last week’s healthy return of big-play receiver Chris Owusu, who missed the first two games with a reported knee injury. 
Owusu caught touchdown passes on his first two drives of the season last week against Wake Forest. He turned his first reception into an 8-yard score and also made a leaping 35-yard touchdown catch later in the first quarter. 
Owusu added a diving 22­yard catch over the middle as his speed brings an added dimension to an already high-powered offense. 
“It was great to get him into the mix early, get him a touch­down, get him in the end zone,” Harbaugh said. “It was really good to have him back. He’s just one of our best play­ers. You try to put him in as many situations as you can for him to have success.” 
Owusu had five touchdown catches last year and also returned three kicks for scores. He did not return kicks in his first game back but Harbaugh said that could come soon as Stanford looks to get him even more involved heading into the toughest stretch of the season. 
“He has a lot of speed and explosiveness that adds a lot to the offense,” Luck said. “I don’ think the wide receiver corps was lacking with him out, but he definitely brings the level of play up.” 

After visiting Notre Dame on Saturday, the Cardinal travel to No. 5 Oregon next week and host No. 20 Southern California the following week. 
PGA 

Finchem expects Tour to go without some title sponsors 
tour, noting its cumulative TV Associated Press audience — number of view-ATLANTA — PGA Tour com­ers who tune in to a PGA Tour m i s s i o n e r Ti m F i n c h e m at any point during a tourna­expects three or four tourna­ment — was down only 2 per­ments to be without a title cent despite Tiger Woods not sponsor going into the 2011 playing the first three months season, although he said the of the season. And despite a tour has no plans to subsidize weakened economy, the tour them. has signed or renewed some Finchem painted an opti-18 title sponsors since 2009. mistic picture Tuesday of the But when asked about being  “happy” with how well every­thing appears to be going, Finchem added some context to the situation. “We’re pleased that we’re competing. We’re not falling backward when we’re in a d i f f i c u l t e n v i r o n m e n t , ” Finchem said. “On the other hand, you would much prefer to grow. We’d much prefer the growth levels that we had  were two scores of 59 within a m o n t h o f e a c h o t h e r, b y P a u l G o y d o s a n d S t u a r t Appleby. And while Woods is enduring a miserable season on and off the course with his personal travails, a younger c l a s s o f c o m p e t i t i o n h a s e m e r g e d t h r o u g h D u s t i n J o h n s o n , R o r y M c I l r o y, H u n t e r M a h a n , J a s o n D a y and Rickie Fowler, the first  cast,” he said. “Tiger doesn’t generate the core audience t h a t w e h a v e w e e k i n a n d w e e k o u t . I ’ l l s a y t h i s f o r maybe the 50th time — we have 47 tournaments, Tiger plays in 16. ... The economy is the problem, not Tiger. “ H a v i n g s a i d t h a t , t h e r e isn’t any question that when you have not just the No. 1 player on this tour but the  
for charitable contributions in  PGA Tour rookie to make the  most dominating player in  a  
the three years before 2008  Ryder Cup team.  sport in history, you want him  
than bumping along with very  Most noticeable was Woods,  playing because it makes a lot  
slight growth. And the  same  who has failed to win  a  PGA  of things work  a  lot better,”  
thing with financial benefits  Tour stop for the first time in  Finchem said. “And  we  want  
to players.  his career.  h i m p l a y i n g ,  w e  w a n t  h i m  
“ B u t  g i v e n  t h e  c i r c u m - H i s d o w n f a l l  — f r o m th e  playing well. And given his  
stances, given the difficulties,  extramarital affairs that led  intensity,  we  assume  that’ll  
given the cutbacks we’ve seen  to his divorce to finishing in  be the case.”  
in other sports and given the  the top 10 at only two tourna- The  tournaments  without  
fact that we’re headed into  m e n t s  — c o m e s  a t  a  t i m e  t i t l e s p on s o rs  a r e  th e B o b  
television negotiations,  we  w h e n  t h e  t o u r  i s  a b o u t  t o  Hope Classic, Hilton Head,  
are cautiously optimistic. And  start negotiations on the next  the St. Jude Championship in  
we  have to be pleased about  TV contract.  Memphis, and the World Golf  
that.”  F i n c h e m  s a i d  h e  d o e s n ’t  C h a m p i o n s h i p  a t  D o r a l .  
Finchem described the 2010  t h i n k  t h e  p e r f o r m a n c e  o f  Finchem said he expected  a  
s e a s o n  a s  “ e v e n t f u l ”  a n d  golf ’s  m o s t  popul ar pla ye r  title sponsor for Doral.  
AP  “interesting,” which takes in  will have much bearing.  As for the others, he said  
PGA Commisioner Tim Finchem remains optimistic ratings will hold  a lot.  “I think Tiger brings a lot of  they have enough funding to  
steady despite the struggles of Tiger Woods so far this season.  On the golf course,  there  unique viewers  to  the tele­ get by another year.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

age the majority of the job func-confidential support or assistance, Random Stranger: world that hated tions. Pay is $10/ hr. Please send please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 Have you been to the JerseyWANTED your resume to hr@betterworld-or Ann Firth at 1-2685. FOR RENT Shore?!?!?! and that dared to drag him down. 
books.com for consideration! Better World Books, Mishawaka, ——————————————— For more information, visit ND's Spacious Upper-Level Apartment Nick: Her little boy courageous IN, is looking for an enthusiastic website at: http://pregnancysup-Near Airport, on Busline 1 Bdr. That’s like saying, “oh, you’re from college student with excellent inter-port@nd.edu. $550, All Util Included Call Mike the Chicago suburbs, have you who chose his words from mouths personal, communication skills, PERSONAL ——————————————— 574-250-0191 ever seen the Sears Tower?” organizational and multi-tasking If you or someone you care about ——————————————— ——————————————— of babes got lost in the wood. skills and a strong work ethic to join UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? has been sexually assaulted, we Hey Jack Kerouac, I think of your our team as a PT (20 hrs/wk) Don't go it alone. can help. Random Stranger: mother Hip flask slinging madman, steam Outbound Telesales Rep. This posi-Notre Dame has many resources in Hey where are you from? ing cafe flirts, tion requires heavy phone usage place to assist you. and the tears she cried, she cried they all spoke through you. and consistently utilizes For more information, visit Notre Nick: for none other - 10,000 Maniacs, “Hey Jack Salesforce.com (CRM tool) to man If you or someone you love needs Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu. New Joy - see than her little boy lost in our little Kerouac” ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Wednesday. September 22, 2010 The Observer u SPORTS page 13 
NFL 

Texans lineman Brown suspended four games 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON — Houston left tack­le Duane Brown was suspended Tuesday for four games without pay for violating the NFL’s policy on performance enhancing drugs, joining linebacker Brian Cushing on the sideline for the same infraction. 
Brown, the Texans’ first-round draft choice and the 26th overall pick in 2008, said he wouldn’t appeal the suspension, meaning his next game will be Nov. 1 at Indianapolis. He will miss the undefeated Texans’ home show­down Sunday with the Dallas Cowboys and the next three games. 
Brown apologized to the team’s owners, coaches, fans and his teammates. 
“I take full responsibility for putting myself in this situation,” he said. “I unknowingly took a supplement tainted with a banned substance and now have to deal with the consequences. After reviewing the appeal process and speaking with legal counsel, I have decided not to appeal my suspension. I under­stand the rules and accept my punishment.” 
The team didn’t identify the supplement. 
General manager Rick Smith said the team was disappointed and called the suspension “a sig­nificant blow.” 
“Our players have to under­stand that they are responsible for what goes into their bodies and that they take risks anytime they use a supplement not approved by the NFL,” he said in a statement released by the Texans. “Our head athletic train­er, head strength and condition­ing coach as well as our team nutritionist have had many meet­ings and presentations constantly reminding our players about the dangers of the supplement indus­try and risks associated with tak­ing non-approved products.” 
Right tackle Eric Winston said the Texans have raised aware­ness among the players about the risks of using supplements since Cushing was punished. 
“We talk about it, there are signs up in the locker room,” Winston said. “There are all kinds of things, but it’s an indus-
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Purdue quarterback Marve plans to start 
Associated Press 
WEST LAFAYETTE, Ind. — Robert Marve’s latest knee issue was just a scare. 
The Purdue quarterback expects to play Saturday against Toledo after bruising his left knee last week against Ball State. He was hurt on a quarterback sneak in the sec­ond quarter against the Cardinals, and he played a limited role in the second half. 
It was the same knee he had ACL surgery on last year, so he’s relieved it wasn’t a bigger deal. 
“It was the weirdest situa­tion,” he said. “My foot got stuck in the ground. Somebody just rolled into me. I feel fine now. All the doctors looked at it and said I’m going to be fine to play on Saturday.” 
Marve has helped the Boilermakers to a 2-1 start. He has completed 69 percent of his passes for 502 yards and three touchdowns. The Boilermakers are dealing with numerous injuries to offensive players, so Marve’s status is a positive for a team that already has lost top receiver Keith Smith for the season with a knee injury. 
Purdue coach Danny Hope said he will be careful with Marve this week. 
“I think he’ll be a little limit­ed in practice,” Hope said. “A bad bruise. And bruises take a couple of days to go away, so he’ll be maybe somewhat lim­ited a little bit early in the week. But I anticipate him full speed and ready to go this weekend.” 
Rob Henry stepped in against Ball State and passed for 89 yards and a touchdown and ran for 65 yards to help the Boilermakers in a 24-13 win. Hope was pleased to see the redshirt freshman perform well in Marve’s place. 
“He’s a great talent,” Hope said. “You know, a guy on the team that the other players believe in as well. So when he’s in there, that’s a good thing. It helps us offensively because he’s going to have to play some, and the more he plays now, the better off we’re going to be.” 
Hope has expressed concern that Marve’s style of play puts him at risk. He runs often, but doesn’t slide and tends to avoid the sideline. He has gained 87 yards rushing, including a 23-yard touchdown run against Notre Dame, but he has taken 43 yards in loss­es. 
Hope said he will continue to emphasize self preservation in conversations with Marve. 
“There is a lot of different areas from the quarterback standpoint that, you love to see them take those steps and the light to come on,” Hope said. “You know, getting the ball out of your hand in a hurry. If you never get your quarterback to take a sack, you’re taking a huge step as a quarterback. Then, obviously, teaching the quarterback to protect himself. 
Hope said he wants Marve to be smart, but remain aggres­sive. 
“I like the way he goes out playing a game,” Hope said. “He plays to win. He’s a physi­cal player. He finishes runs. He’s an emotional player. He plays that way, and that’s good for our football team. So I cer­tainly trust him. We’ll continue to school him up a little bit as far as taking care of himself. But I love the way he plays.” 
try problem, too. They can put whatever they want in there. There’s no regulation to it. Until there is something done about that, these things are going to happen.” 
Team owner Bob McNair had no comment on the suspension. Brown had started all 34 games since he was drafted, and the timing of his punishment could hardly be worse. 
The Texans are aiming for their first 3-0 start and a validat­ing victory over the high-profile Cowboys, who still get most of the attention in the state. 
“You never want to have to deal with this too much,” Winston said. “But that’s the adversity we’re dealt right now, and we’re just going to have to keep moving forward as a team. Everyone is going to have to play better and just pick up the left­overs.” 
The Texans reacquired tackle Ephraim Salaam after announc­ing Brown’s punishment, accord­ing to Salaam’s agent, Joby Branyon. The 34-year-old Salaam played for Houston in 2006-08. 

NFL 
Edwards admits to charges 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — New York Jets star wide receiver Braylon Edwards told a police officer he’d been partying and drink­ing before being pulled over in his luxury SUV, but he suggest­ed letting him leave the car and go home, prosecutors said as he was arraigned Tuesday on drunken-driving charges. 
A solemn Edwards was released without bail in a case that could compound his legal troubles while he’s on proba­tion after a fracas in Cleveland last year. He declined to discuss the drunken-driving arrest as he left a Manhattan courthouse, thronged by reporters. 
“There will be plenty of time to talk. I’ll address everybody,” said Edwards, wearing a black T-shirt and fashionably torn gray jeans. 
Defense lawyer Peter M. Frankel said Edwards was exhausted and focused on get­ting back to his team. 
“Obviously, this is very diffi­cult for him,” Frankel said. “Without question, absolutely, he understands the seriousness of the situation, and he is com­mitted to getting back on the football field and doing what he does best for the Jets.” 
A breath test showed Edwards had a blood-alcohol level twice the legal limit after he was stopped on Manhattan’s West Side around 5 a.m. Tuesday, prosecutors said. Chief police spokesman Paul Browne said officers on the lookout for such violations as overly tinted windows stopped Edwards because his Land Rover’s windows were too dark and then noticed a strong smell of alcohol. 
Authorities said there were four other people in the SUV, and the Jets confirmed Tuesday that starting left tackle D’Brickashaw Ferguson and defensive end Vernon Gholston were among them. Neither of those players was charged. 
Edwards told an officer he’d had “a couple of drinks,” the last about an hour before, assistant district attorney Alyssa Gunther said. 
“We were coming from a party. How about if I just leave the car and take a cab and go home?” he asked, according to Gunther. 
Edwards also quizzed the officer about why he wasn’t first given a field sobriety test, saying “they do it in Michigan,” where he was a college stand­out, and questioned the basis for his arrest, Gunther said. 
“Why was I stopped for hav­ing tints if my driving didn’t lead you to believe I was drunk driving?” Edwards asked, according to prosecutors. 
It’s unclear where Edwards was coming from or going. Teammate Jerricho Cotchery told WFAN-AM Tuesday morn­ing that Edwards and other Jets had attended a Manhattan event Monday night for Cotchery’s nonprofit foundation benefiting underprivileged youths. 
Edwards was charged with driving while intoxicated, a misdemeanor, and driving while impaired, a violation. He’s due back in court Nov. 9. If convicted, he could face up to a year in jail. 
While awaiting the outcome of the New York case, Edwards may have to return Cleveland to face a possible probation vio­lation, which could carry jail time. The Cleveland Municipal Court judge handling his case has been notified of his New York arrest, court spokesman Ed Ferenc said. 
In January, Edwards was placed on probation for 18 months after pleading no con­test to misdemeanor aggravat­ed disorderly conduct; he’d been accused of punching a friend of NBA star LeBron James outside a Cleveland nightclub. The Cleveland Browns traded Edwards to the Jets two days after the October nightclub encounter. 
Edwards also could be in line for an NFL suspension for vio­lations of league policies on alcohol and player conduct. 
The NFL had no comment, but Jets general manager Mike Tannenbaum said Edwards had shown poor judgment. 


page 14 The Observer uSPORTS Wednesday, September 22, 2010 
NBA 

Mark Cuban faces SEC in case revival 
Associated Press 
DALLAS — A federal appeals court revived the Securities and Exchange Commission’s insider-trading lawsuit against Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban on Tuesday, saying it was “plausible” he had agreed not to sell company stock to avoid a loss after receiving confidential information. 
The case was sent back to a lower court in Dallas for further discovery and, if necessary, a trial. The appeals court declined to rule on whether Cuban was wrong in selling the stock, saying that was a ques­tion for the Dallas court. 
The SEC’s civil lawsuit accus­es the Dallas billionaire of sell­ing shares in the Internet search engine company Mamma.com Inc. in 2004, avoiding a $750,000 loss after learning the company was going to offer stock to private investment companies at a dis­counted rate. 
U.S. District Judge Sidney A. Fitzwater dismissed the lawsuit in July 2009, ruling there was no agreement binding Cuban to not act on this confidential information. 
The 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans, how­ever, said in its ruling Tuesday that it was “plausible” Cuban knew he was not to sell his shares until after the announcement of the offering. The court also acknowledged that under the law, it had to view the government’s appeal in a manner most favorable to the SEC — in other words, accepting the agency’s version of events. 
“Under Cuban’s reading, he was allowed to trade on the information but prohibited from telling others — in effect pro­viding him an exclusive license to trade on” his confidential knowledge of the stock offering, the appeals court wrote. 
“We are pleased with the court’s decision and look for­ward to presenting our case,” SEC spokesman John Nester said in a statement. 
Hours after the appeals court ruling, Fitzwater denied Cuban’s motion to have the SEC pay his attorney fees and expenses. Cuban’s motion accuses the agency of miscon­duct and alleges he is a victim of wrongful prosecution because the SEC wanted to tar­get high-profile individuals. 
Fitzwater dismissed the motion without prejudice, meaning Cuban can refile it later if the SEC lawsuit proves to be without merit. 



Wednesday, September 22, 2010 The Observer u SPORTS page 15 
NCAA 

Turner Sports and NCAA agree to 14-year deal 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Turner Sports and the NCAA announced a 14-year digital rights deal Tuesday that includes management of NCAA.com, the primary web site for all 88 NCAA tourna­ments and other services. 
“We’re doing this for a couple of reasons, and we would never do a stupid economic deal,” said Lenny Daniels, executive vice president and chief operat­ing officer of Turner Sports. “The long-term television world is going to change, and we think everything is, eventually, going to be interconnected.” 
Financial terms were not immediately disclosed. 
If Daniels is right, Turner Sports’ second major coup with the NCAA in five months may put the network in a stronger position to land future con­tracts. 
In April, Turner and CBS announced they were teaming up as broadcast partners for the NCAA’s marquee event, the men’s basketball tournament, winning a bidding war with a 14-year, $10.8 billion deal that means each game will be broadcast live for the first time in the 73-year history of the event. The NCAA will get an additional $740 million per year, on average, from that deal — money it says will go back to individual schools and conferences. 
But Turner Sports could be the big winner. 


Beginning this season, Turner will carry games on three of its cable channels (TBS, TNT and truTV), will begin alternating title game broadcasts with CBS in 2016 and now holds digital rights to all NCAA champi­onships across all three divi­sions. 
“I think people won’t under­stand until March how promi­nent their (Turner’s) role is going to be in this agreement,” said Greg Shaheen, the NCAA’s interim executive vice presi­dent of championships and business strategies. “The tour­nament is going to have a dif­ferent look and a different feel and how it is covered will be a much better experience for the viewer. They (Turner) are the ones who did a lot of the home­work on this and they’re formi­dable.” 
Turner already has opera­tional oversight of March Madness On Demand, which drew 3 million viewers on the first Thursday of last season’s NCAA tourney, as part of its tel­evision deal with CBS. 
While the governing body’s primary web site, NCAA.org, will continue to be run by the national office, Turner Sports wants to add the other NCAA digital platforms to its long list of successful web sites. Among those already being managed or operated by Turner are NASCAR.com, PGATOUR.com 
and PGA.com and NBA.com and WNBA.com. 
Turner Sports is a division of Time Warner Inc.’s Turner Broadcasting System Inc., based in Atlanta. It also over­sees the operation of SI.com. 
What will change on the NCAA sites is not exactly clear yet. 
Daniels said Turner Sports is still researching what Internet surfers want to see. He’s already committed to adding more live coverage and more highlights from championship events. 
Shaheen hopes to see more coverage of “The Road to the Final Four,” though it is unlike­ly to include open coverage of the currently closed-door selec­tion process. 
“We’re going to see if some­thing is missing,” Daniels said. “If you look across the whole college sports world, you’ll see it (Internet coverage) is pretty fragmented. We want this to become the place you go to for college sports.” 
The free streaming, on-demand services could also get a facelift. 
“We would expect March Madness on Demand to take the next step forward,” Shaheen said, though he didn’t explain what that would be. “I’ll defer to the experts, but they know we want to explore what provides the best possible experience for the viewer.” 


NCAA FOOTBALL 
Ferentz says Hampton likely out for season 
more, hurt his left knee in the 
Associated Press 
second half of Saturday’s 34-27 
IOWA CITY, Iowa — Iowa loss at Arizona. coach Kirk Ferentz said Hampton, who missed all of Tuesday that running back last season after tearing the Jewel Hampton will have knee ACL in his right knee, had been surgery and is likely gone for splitting carries with starter the rest of the season. Adam Robinson, rushing for 
Hampton, a redshirt sopho-114 yards on 27 carries this season. 
Ferentz wouldn’t say whether Hampton had suffered another ACL injury, but stressed that his surgery will require ample recovery time. 
“He’s very disappointed. He’s invested a lot. He’s one of the competitive guys on our foot­ball team,” Ferentz said. “It’s not the end of football life, nec­essarily, but it just feels that way and it’s going to feel that way for a couple of days I’m sure.” 
No. 18 Iowa (2-1) opened fall practice with three experienced sophomore backs — Hampton, Brandon Wegher and Robinson 
— and only so many carries to go around. Now nearly all of them will go to Robinson. 
Wegher left camp because of personal issues and isn’t expected to return this season. Robinson assumed the starting job after Hampton was sus­pended for the opener, but the two began rotating every series in a 35-7 win over Iowa State. 
Robinson broke Iowa’s fresh­man record with 834 yards rushing in 2009, and he had a team-high 270 yards rushing and four touchdowns this sea­son. 

page 16 The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, September 22, 2010 
NFL 

Broncos say McKinley showed no warning signs 
Associated Press 
ENGLEWOOD, Colo. — Denver Broncos wide receiver Kenny McKinley, who is thought to have killed himself with a gunshot to the head, had made previous statements about committing sui­cide, according to a sheriff’s investigative report released Tuesday. 
The Arapahoe County Sheriff’s report quoted one investigator as saying McKinley had been depressed over a knee surgery he had a month ago. 
“He had made statements while playing dominoes shortly after the surgery that he should just kill himself,” the officer reported. “No one believed he was serious.” 
The report provided no expla­nation for the source of the inves­tigator’s information. 
The report also said McKinley had made statements about not knowing what he would do with­out football. It said McKinley had flown to South Carolina 10 days earlier to see his young son and had brought him back with him to Denver on Sunday night. 
Two female friends who were taking care of his son discovered McKinley’s body Monday and called 911. Detectives who responded to his home a few miles from the Broncos head­quarters found McKinley’s body with a pillow over his head and a semiautomatic pistol on top of the pillow. They also noted a strong odor of freshly burned marijua­na, according to the report. 
Arapahoe County Coroner Michael Dobersen said Tuesday that McKinley died of a gunshot wound to the head. He said a preliminary investigation “sug­gests the wound to be self-inflict­ed.” 
McKinley’s teammates and coaches said Tuesday that they didn’t see any hint the gregarious 23-year-old wide receiver was suicidal. Neither did the players at his alma mater, South Carolina, when he visited them earlier this month. 
“I actually saw Kenny a week and a half ago. He was over here picking up some stuff out of his locker,” Broncos linebacker Wesley Woodyard said. “He was always a guy that used to love to joke with me and I would joke back and forth with him. But he had a big smile on his face. He just walked out of the building. 
“And that’s the last thing we remember, that huge smile. Like coach said, he always showed every tooth in his mouth, just smiling and being happy.” 
This is the third time in four years the Broncos have had to deal with the death of a team­mate under stunning circum­stances. Cornerback Darrent Williams, 24, was slain in a drive-by shooting on New Year’s Day 2007, and three months later running back Damien Nash, 24, collapsed and died after a charity basketball game in St. Louis. 
Broncos coach Josh McDaniels said in a tearful news conference Tuesday that nobody with the Broncos sensed any warning signs from McKinley about his state of mind. 
“We’ve all seen him recently. He’s been the same person every time we see him. Liked junk food and chips and things like that,” McDaniels said. “He was in the cafeteria, or in the training room, when we were seeing him the last so many weeks here. Nothing that would alarm us to anything like this.” 
Woodyard said McKinley was his usual joking and jovial self in recent weeks even as he was recovering from his second knee operation this year. 
“Every memory that we have of Kenny is a joke and a big smile,” Woodyard said. 
Woodyard said despite what it might look like to fans, NFL play­ers have lots of pressures in their lives even though they’re living the dream. 
“Well, you know, football’s a stressful job,” he said, adding that players have to reach out for help. “It’s the same thing with people in everyday life, you’ve got to talk to somebody in your life, so just to help you work out those problems.” 
McKinley was a fifth-round draft choice out of South Carolina in 2009. He remains South Carolina’s all-time leading receiv­er with 207 catches for 2,781 yards. He returned to the school earlier this month, watching the Gamecocks beat Georgia 17-6 and visiting with his college coach, Steve Spurrier. 
None of his old friends in Columbia, S.C., sensed anything was wrong. 
“No, all of our players said the same thing. When he was here, he was happy, smiling, the usual Kenny,” Spurrier said. “In fact, I think he watched the Georgia game from up in my office there (in Williams-Brice Stadium) because he was on crutches from his knee surgery. I saw him up there right after the game. He was his usual self. It’s hard to comprehend how that can hap­pen.” 
People who are dealing with depression or suicidal thoughts aren’t always outwardly despon­dent, said Dr. Michael Allen, director of research at the University of Colorado Denver Depression Center. He said suici­dal individuals don’t always reach out for help, even to those closest to them. 
“Warning signs depend on the run up,” Allen said, adding that suicidal people who have been depressed and thinking about killing themselves for weeks may sometimes reach out, or have trouble keeping a happy face to cover up their feelings. 
“For many people in the mild to moderate range you wouldn’t know they’re depressed. They’re able to put up a good front of joviality,” Allen said. 
Allen, who wasn’t addressing McKinley’s death specifically, said reaching out can be difficult for those in the military or on sports teams: “In any group of men where toughness is valued, talk­ing about anything that may be viewed as weakness goes against the grain,” Allen said. 

NFL 

Vick to start for Eagles Sunday against Jags 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — Michael Vick earned himself a starting job by being — of all things — a pocket passer. 
Vick will take over as the Philadelphia Eagles’ No. 1 quar­terback, coach Andy Reid said Tuesday, a day after he announced he would go back to Kevin Kolb. 
“When someone is playing at the level Michael Vick is playing, you have to give him an opportu­nity,” Reid said. “This isn’t about Kevin Kolb’s play. You’re talking about Michael Vick as one of the best quarterbacks in the NFL right now.” 
Vick is considered the greatest scrambling quarterback in NFL history, but he won the job over Kolb by demonstrating he no longer has a run-first mentality. 
Kolb missed the last six quar­ters because of a concussion, and Vick played well in his absence. Kolb was cleared to practice and was expected to run the first-team offense on Wednesday. 
“Kevin is fine. It’s not an injury-related issue,” Reid said. “It’s not about judging him. He’s going to be a championship-caliber quar­terback.” 
Vick threw for 175 yards and one touchdown and ran for 103 yards in a 27-20 season-opening loss to Green Bay. He had 284 yards passing and two TDs in a 35-32 win at Detroit on Sunday. 
Kolb started two games in his first three seasons before he became the team’s No. 1 quarter­back after Donovan McNabb was traded to Washington. Kolb strug­gled in the first half against the Packers in the season opener, but he became the first QB in league history to throw for 300 yards in his first two career starts last year. 
Though the Eagles have been grooming Kolb to be the starter since drafting him in the second round in 2007, Vick forced Reid to make a difficult decision by play­ing better than he did when he was a superstar in Atlanta. 
“Michael did an exceptional job and my job is to evaluate the play­ers,” Reid said. “It’s my obligation to make the proper decision.” 
Vick’s start against the Lions was his first in nearly four years. A three-time Pro Bowl pick dur­ing six seasons with the Falcons, Vick missed two seasons while serving an 18-month sentence in federal prison for his role in a dogfighting operation. He signed a two-year contract with the Eagles before last season, then played sparingly behind McNabb and Kolb. 


Wednesday, September 22, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles fall to Manchester College in 2-0 battle 
Irish 
continued from page 18 
John’s. The Irish host Connecticut on Jan. 4 and travel to Storrs, Conn., on March 5. They host Marquette on Jan. 22 and travel to Milwaukee, Wis., on Jan. 10, and host St. John’s on Jan. 8 before traveling to New York on Jan. 16. 
The men’s Big East Championship will be March 8-12 in New York City while the women’s Championship will be March 4-8 in Hartford, Conn. 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s could not maintain their winning ways as they fell to Manchester College Tuesday night by a score of 2-0. 
The game was much closer than the score would indicate. The Belles (1-8) had possession in the offensive zone for the majority of the night but could not capitalize on their scoring chances. The game remained tied deep into the second half when Manchester sophomore Laura Jenkins found the back of the net from 35 yards out in the 79th minute to draw first blood. The Spartans would then tack on another goal when fresh­man Olivia Gomez scored in the final minute of play to eliminate any chance of a Saint Mary’s win or draw. 
Tuesday’s game against the struggling Spartans (2-6) was a reprieve from the brutal schedule the Belles’ have faced up to this point, but they could not take advantage of the weaker competi­tion. 
It was not all bad news for the Belles, however, in the loss. Although they did not light up the scoreboard, their offense, which has been stagnant all year, showed a marked improvement as Saint Mary’s fired 18 shots as opposed to 
Belles 
continued from page 20 
25), won the second game decisively (25-16), went down hard in the third game (12­25), and almost took the fourth and final game, losing by just two points in a com­petitive 29-31 battle. 
“We came out flat in the first set. We passed and hit 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — Clayton Richard has a short memory for losing, and he’s needed it lately. 
San Diego lost each of his four previous starts, but Richard forgot all about that and pitched a memorable game to eliminate the Manchester’s 13. Unfortunately, the Belles could not get a ball past Spartans freshman goalkeeper Abby Williams. The Belles’ defense also performed well. Sophomore goalkeeper Caitlin Walsh recorded six saves in the losing effort. 
The Belles will come home to face Franklin College Sunday afternoon at 2:00 p.m. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 


really well in the second and fourth sets and passed the ball really well in the second set,” Kuschel said. “In the third set we were just incon­sistent and had way too many ball -handling errors. The unforced errors really hurt us. In the fourth set we went point for point with Kalamazoo.” 
Senior Ellen Huelsmann did a lot in the match, bringing in a block assist, an ace, 14 digs, three assists, six kills and a team-high attack percentage of .294. Senior Meghann Rose had a match-high 28 digs, while freshman Hailee Leitz came up with a match-high 32 assists. 
“We’re a young team and are working on how to play together, said Kuschel. “We showed a lot of heart.” 
Contact Katharine Mack at kmack1@nd.edu 
MLB 
Padres take down Dodgers in LA 
Dodgers from playoff con­tention, officially ending Los Angeles manager Joe Torre’s streak of postseason appear­ances. 
Richard earned his first nine-inning shutout and com­plete game, Ryan Ludwick drove in four runs and the Padres won 6-0 on Tuesday night to remain a half-game behind the NL West-leading San Francisco Giants. 
Richard (13-8) allowed eight hits, struck out six and walked two in his 65th career start. 
“We’ve talked about some­one having a grand perform­ance. Clayton said, ‘Today’s my day.’ It was great to see,” Padres manager Bud Black said. “The players know that’s in there in Clayton. He doesn’t wear down. He has a nice presence during the entire game. He does a great job of turning the page, he doesn’t dwell.” 
The left-hander went 3-0 with a 4.76 ERA in his four previous starts. His shutout was the 19th by the Padres this season. 
“It was a long five, six days (until this start). Those are the type of starts where you wish you got on the mound the next day,” Richard said. “It always feels good to get wins. Last year, we were wishing we were at where we are now.” 
Colorado fell 2½ games behind the Giants in the divi­sion with a 3-1 loss at Arizona. 
The Padres moved within a game of Atlanta in the wild­card race. They’ve won eight of the last 10 games with the Dodgers, and five in a row. 
“We’re all acutely aware of what’s going on,” Black said. “It’s a great race.” 
The Giants’ 1-0 victory over the Chicago Cubs knocked out the Dodgers, ending Torre’s streak of 14 consecutive play­off appearances that tied him with Atlanta manager Bobby Cox, who is retiring at sea­son’s end. 
“If you had told me when I was offered the Yankee job back at the end of ‘95 that that was going to be the case, I’d have you checked for your sanity,” said Torre, who won’t manage the Dodgers next sea­son. “But it’s been a great run and it’s been a lot of fun. This year was very trying and it was frustrating, but again, you knew that is going to have to come to an end at some point. Unfortunately, it was this year.” 
Los Angeles has lost six of its last eight games. 
“We didn’t play well enough to be in a pennant race,” Torre said. “We thought the first half that we were going to be able to contend. Unfortunately, the second half started off badly and we never really recovered from it.” 
Ludwick gave San Diego a 2-0 lead on his two-out single to left field in the third inning. 
“The first hit was a big one,” he said. “I battled and got Clayton some runs early. He was the story. His pitching effort was unbelievable.” 
Ludwick drove in the Padres’ sixth run on a field­er’s choice grounder in the ninth. He has five multi-hit games during the road trip that began on Monday. 
“Things are starting to roll a little bit,” he said. 
The Padres got to Chad Billingsley (11-11) for three runs in the fifth. After Will Venable singled to lead off, David Eckstein walked. 
Miguel Tejada hit a line drive off Billingsley, who scrambled behind the mound to retrieve the ball and throw him out. Billingsley intention­ally walked Adrian Gonzalez to load the bases, then grazed Ludwick to force in a run. 
Yorvit Torrealba’s sacrifice fly added another run before Chase Headley’s RBI single scored Gonzalez to make it 5­0. 
Torre said Billingsley lacked command and couldn’t locate his pitches. 


page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, September 22, 2010 

“This group, [losing] hurts,” he 

played in the NCAA days before the women, open-said. “They want to win, and 
Tournament last season, as ing with an exhibition game 
Kelly 
Bears 
that’s why for me we just kind of 

beneficial for the Irish in the against Marian University on continued from page 20 stick with what we’ve been talk-
continued from page 20 long run. Nov. 1 before their season ing about since day one, and 
“I think when you talk about opener on Nov. 12 against don’t fumble the ball or turn it that’s stay together.” 
never played. The Bears won the schedules we’ve had Georgia Southern. over in the red zone like we did 
the National Championship in through the years, this has to Georgia Southern opens a twice.” Jamoris Slaughter update 
2005, and advanced to the rank right up there as one of four-game homestand for the In the two losses, the Irish have Junior safety Jamoris 
Final Four last year, only to the most challenging ones Irish, which then head to the given up four scores of 29 yards Slaughter sprained his ankle 
lose to eventual champion we’ve put together,” McGraw Old Spice Classic in Orlando, or longer, and turned the ball during the season-opener against 
Connecticut. said in a press release Monday. Fla. At the Old Spice Classic, over three times in each game. Purdue. Slaughter missed the 
The Irish will face “Our philosophy has always Notre Dame will play Georgia “We’ve got to make those second half of that game, all of 
Connecticut twice this season, been to test ourselves during on Thanksgiving night, and plays,” Kelly said. “But you ask the game against Michigan and 
on Jan. 8 and at Connecticut the non-conference season in then either California or me why you see there’s light at only played two plays against 
on Feb. 19. Irish coach Muffet order to prepare for the Temple on Nov. 25. The Irish the end of the tunnel, it’s those Michigan State. 
McGraw said she sees the demands of playing in the Big will play one more game on things we know that we can cor-But, this week’s depth chart 
match-ups with teams like East, which is the toughest Nov. 28 against either Boston rect … They’re very correctable, has Slaughter listed as a starting 
Connecticut and Baylor, or any conference in the country.” College, Texas A&M, Wisconsin but those are areas that we have safety, and Kelly said he would 
of the other nine teams on the The Irish men will take the to do a better job with, and those stand by that expectation. 
Notre Dame schedule that court at Purcell Pavilion two see IRISH/page 17 are the things that you can look “[Slaughter] moved around a back and go, hey, there’s some lot better,” Kelly said after prac­points that you left out there that tice Tuesday. “I’m very confident, would have made it a different after watching him move around game.” today, that we’re going to have 
Aside from the mistakes that him ready for Saturday.” led to those four long scores, While Slaughter was sidelined Kelly said he has been pleased — along with fellow junior safety with the defense’s play, especially Dan McCarthy — Notre Dame the effort shown going up against only had two healthy safeties. a Michigan State team that relies When sophomore Zeke Motta’s on the run. helmet was damaged Saturday, 
“What I liked about our Slaughter was Notre Dame’s only defense that will carry the day is option, Kelly said. they played tough when tough “Zeke had an equipment prob-was required, and that’s what lem. Jamoris ran in the game we’ve been preaching,” he said. without anybody putting him in “Be tough gentlemen.” the game,” Kelly said. “So he’s 
Those “tough gentlemen” took anxious to get back out there.” Saturday’s loss personally, Kelly said, and that fact encouraged Contact Douglas Farmer at him. dfarmer1@nd.edu 
where it was when I started freshman year. We have a
Conway 

chance this year to play in some continued from page 20 really great events and to put 
ourselves in a good position for 

Building upon their successes postseason play. I know we can during their sophomore season, do it if we stay confident both Conway and Park began to throughout the season. It would step up and assumed leadership be a perfect ending to my time roles on the Irish squad in the here. “ 2009-2010 season with the help “I think we have a great of last year’s co-captains Annie chance to achieve these goals Brophy and Kristin Wetzel. this year and our teamwork has Conway played in all 11 events never been better especially as a junior, up from playing in with the two new freshmen, only eight events her sopho-Nicole [Zhang] and Kristina more year, while Park took part [Nhim], who are exceptionally in 10. Both players closed the good and talented golfers,” Park conference season by tying for said. “We can't wait for our sea­25th at the Big East son to start.” Championships with a three-The Irish will begin their sea-round score of 246 (Conway 87-son this weekend at Michigan 82-77 and Park 81-81-84) and State’s Mary Fossum their third consecutive trip to Invitational. the NCAA Regional Tournament. Contact Meghan Veselik at 
“They have been part of the mvesel01@saintmarys.edu most successful three years the program has had with three consecutive trips to the NCAA regional tournament,” Holt said. “They know what it takes to get there and we need their experi­ence to get us past the regional tournament and into the finals.” 
But Conway and Park’s suc­cess isn’t limited to the golf course. Both are exceptional students with GPAs over 3.7 in the Mendoza College of Business and have made the All-Scholar golf team each year. 
“They are solid role models for their teammates both athlet­ically and academically,” Holt said. “They are the full package of what a student-athlete should be. Both have outstanding work ethic.” 
As part of that work ethic, Conway and Park are working towards leaving a legacy they’ll be proud to have been a part of, which includes winning the Big East championships and com­peting in the NCAA finals, a first for the Irish women’s team. 
“My goal for this year is to be able to hang up my clubs at the end of the year with no regrets,” Conway said. “I want to leave it all out there on the course and know that at the end of the year, my four years here elevated the program from 


Wednesday, September 22, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK

TUESDAY VARIETY SHOW LAURA McGINN 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Wednesday, September 22, 2010 page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Cleaning it up 
Kelly speaks of need 

to avoid turnovers  
By DOUGLAS FARMER  
Sports Editor  
After suffering a second last- 
minute loss, the Irish do not need  
to learn how to win. Notre Dame  
simply needs to play “cleaner,”  
Irish coach Brian Kelly said in a  
press conference Tuesday.  
“We’re all frustrated. We want  
to win football games,” Kelly  
said. “We need to play cleaner …  
They play hard. They played  
with great physical toughness.  
We played tough. We’ve got to  
play cleaner.”  
By cleaner, Kelly was referring  
to Notre Dame’s three turnovers  
on Saturday, two inside the red  
zone, and defensive lapses that  
led to big plays for both Michigan  
and Michigan State in the past  
two weeks.  
“It’s not not knowing how to  
win,” Kelly said. “It’s playing the  
game at a level that you don’t  
give up a 56-yard run or you see KELLY/page 18  PAT COVENEY/The Observer Irish wide receiver Michael Floyd drops a pass against Michigan State Saturday. Irish coach Brian Kelly said the Irish need to clean up such issues as dropped passes, fumbles and interceptions.  

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles drop tough one in four sets 
By KATHARINE MACK 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s (3-9) lost a tough one to MIAA conference foe Kalamazoo (7-5) last night by a score of 1-3 (10-25, 25-16, 12­25, 29-31), dropping the Belles to 1-3 in conference action. 
The Belles’ offensive consisten­cy didn’t quite match that of the Hornets, as Kalamazoo held a slight edge over with 23 errors to Saint Mary’s 27. 
“We just needed to be more consistent,” Belles head coach Toni Kuschel said. “We had real­ly high highs and really low lows. Our team did a lot of things right, we just came out a little short in the end.” 
There were key momentum shifts throughout the entire match, as the Belles came out slowly in the first game (10-25), won the second game decisively 
see BELLES/page 17 
MEN’S GOLF 

Freshman Platt adapts well to Division I competition 
“I’ve never really been on a Ocean Course, one of the toughest performance, and the talented With a full season still ahead,
By CORY BERNARD 

good golf team; the team environ-in the nation, never affected his freshman said he does not take Platt acknowledged that the Irish
Sports Writer 

ment was a first for me,” Platt play. The rookie did not shy away the Kubinski’s trust for granted. roster is laden with talented said. from the spotlight, admitting that “It means a lot to me, to know upperclassmen and he had a lot to 
While Niall Platt admits there’s a As it turned out, Platt did quite a he was comfortable at the highly he has such confidence in me,” learn from his teammates. learning curve as he transitions bit of the heavy lifting for the Irish, competitive Invitational. Platt said. “They have all played really well from tiny Laguna Blanca School in rather than the other way around. “I wasn’t thinking as much Platt said the confidence of both in their careers. I’m trying to learn Santa Barbara, Calif., to Division I For his opening act, the freshman about my individual scores, which the coach and player is largely a from them as much as I can,” Platt golf at Notre Dame, it’s tough to fired a one-over-par 217 to finish takes the pressure off, knowing result of the team’s excellent said find evidence of one. in a tie for second place overall in the team’s going to pick you up,” chemistry and the Irish coaching Given Platt’s impressive per-
After playing most tournaments Notre Dame’s runner-up finish at Platt said. “It was the most fun I’ve staff. formance so far, it’s also possible solo throughout his high school the College of Charleston had in a golf tournament.” “The guys on the team are great the other golfers could learn a career, Platt was excited by the Invitational at Kiawah Island, S.C. Irish head coach James characters, very welcoming, and opportunity to play with a group of The pressure of playing his first Kubinski was one of many who the coaches are helpful too in get-Contact Corey Bernard at teammates who share his talents. tournament for the Irish on The came away impressed after Platt’s ting me adjusted,” Platt said. cbernard@nd.edu 
ND BASKETBALL 

Irish release 2010-11 schedules 
Observer Staff Report 
As hard as it may be to believe, the 2010 Irish basket­ball opener is less than six weeks away. Notre Dame released both the men’s and women’s 2010-2011 regular season schedules this week, and both schedules hold many challenges for the Irish. 
The women open their season on Nov. 3 with an exhibition game against Michigan Tech at Purcell Pavilion. Their regular season opener is on Nov. 12 against New Hampshire, and their first road game is at Kentucky on Nov. 21. Less than two weeks later, the Irish will travel to Waco, Tex., to face Baylor — the only former NCAA champion Notre Dame has 
see BEARS/page 18 


ND WOMEN’S GOLF 
Conway, Park look to lead in tournament 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Leading the Irish as they prepare to step back onto the course this weekend are two familiar faces who are no stranger to the success the Irish have achieved in the last few years. Seniors Katie Conway and So-Hyun Park hope to use their experience to lead the Notre Dame team to a higher level of play this year, and they are just the people to do so. 
“So-Hyun and Katie bring a wealth of experience to the team,” Irish coach Susan Holt said. “So-Hyun has played in 31 of 32 events in her career and Katie has played in 30 of 32 events in her career. Both players are ranked in the top seven in career stroke average in program history.” 
Conway and Park have been challenging the Irish stan­dards since joining the team in the fall of 2007. Conway ranked third on the team with a 76.75 average while Park became the program’s first All-American and set the Notre Dame record for a sin-gle-season stroke average at 
73.63 in their rookie season. Winning the Big East that year topped off a stellar inaugural campaign for both Conway and Park. 
see CONWAY/page 18 







