the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Ushers relish Stadium experience 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
“Welcome to Notre Dame,” they say, with bright yellow jackets and infectious smiles. “It’s good that you’re here.” 
There are 850 of them at Notre Dame Stadium, rain or shine, on See Also game days, working up

“Inside the Echoes” 
to 12 or 13 
pages 12-13 hours, 
arriving from 24 different states and representing a wide range of professions. 
Who are they? They are the Notre Dame ushers. 
Veteran usher Richard Scheibelhut started his usher­ing career in the student sec­tion 57 years ago, when he was 17 years old. 
“I started out one game in the student section, I told them I quit and I’ve been in Section 23 ever since,” he said. 
Scheibelhut said one of the best parts about being an usher is interacting with the fans that return game after game. He has seen three generations of fami­lies come through his section. 
Scheibulhut has not taken a penny in 57 years for his work in the Stadium on Saturdays. 
Cappy Gagnon, coordinator of stadium personnel and the head of the ushers, said the majority of the Stadium ushers are volunteers. 


“I’d say the primary motiva­tion for people to be ushers is that they want to be part of the game day experience repre­senting Notre Dame,” Gagnon said. “It’s not as comfortable as being a guest — on the other hand, it’s hard to compete with the feeling you have when you’re there early. You open the Stadium and welcome people and take a lot of pride in being part of the Notre Dame experi­ence.” 
The usher program dates back to famed football coach Knute Rockne’s day. 
see USHERS/page 6 




ND biology professors collaborate on malaria 


By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Notre Dame’s research on malaria is a “web of interaction,” involving multidisciplinary research and collaboration, biolo­gy professor Dr. Michael Ferdig said. 
Currently, there are multiple faculty members researching malaria and the mosquito vector that carries it. 
Biology professor Dr. Nora Besansky researches the African mosquitoes that carry human malignant malaria. Her current 
see MALARIA/page 5 


By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 

After completing Notre Dame’s first iPad-based e-read­er pilot class in October, Corey Angst and his Project Management students found that the device lived up to its widespread media hype. 
“My students felt that the iPad would be useful before they even began using it, and there was hardly any change in that belief over the course of the class,” said Angst, assistant pro­fessor of management at the Mendoza College of Business. 
Angst administered four sur­veys to his students throughout the course: one before the stu­dents received their loaned iPads, one three weeks into the course, one at the end of the course and one a few weeks after returning the devices to the University. He said these surveys provided him with valu­able feedback as to whether or not iPads play a significant role 

Stud. gov’t listens to “whining” 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
Students had the opportunity this week to air their com­plaints to student government representatives during the first Whine Week. 
Student government posted student leaders around campus to field questions and take sug­gestions for improving the Notre Dame experience. 
“We have been in the dining halls, LaFortune, and we’ve had a member of student govern­ment go to almost all the Hall Council meetings, and we’ve also had suggestion boxes in the office,” student body presi­dent Catherine Soler said. “Right now we’re in the compil­ing process.” 
Soler said Whine Week, a new event this year, was a result of discussion in Student Senate about the need for improving dialogue between student gov­ernment and the student body. 
“Actually the idea came out of Senate, just conversations about how people don’t know what student government does, or don’t know how to communi­
see WHINE/page 6 


iPad receives rave reviews 

in an individual student’s learn­ing experience in relation to a specific course. 
“One of the goals of this pilot was to monitor the usefulness of the iPad in a classroom setting, and the survey results showed that the students’ opinions on this remained relatively con­stant,” Angst said. “This seven-week class showed that there is tremendous value in the device, 
see IPAD/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER ROTC honors veterans page 3  Viewpoint page 10  Women’s soccer NCAA tournament preview page 24 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Molly Madden Mike Gotimer Megan Doyle Allan Joseph Caitlin Housley Katie Heit 
Graphics Scene 
Gaspar Garcia de Courtney Cox Paredes Viewpoint Photo Madeline Roe Suzanna Pratt 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU AFRA D OF? 








Allison Jeter  Anthony Pavlov  Chiamaka Esomonu  Jack Heinrich  Josh Foster  Thomas Heitker  
sophomore  junior  sophomore  junior  junior  junior  
Pangborn  Fisher  Pangborn  Duncan  Fisher  Fisher  
“Hopping  “Snakes and  “Syrup”  “Skiing into a  “Fear is for the  “Dementors”  
spiders”  being  tree”  weak.”  
murdered”  


TOM YOUNG/The Observer Students from all four branches of the ROTC program stand guard in front of the Clarke Memorial Fountain Thursday to honor members of the armed forces on Veteran’s Day. 
OFFBEAT 

Woman harasses drivers by repeatedly braking 
ABERDEEN, N.J. — Authorities accused a New Jersey woman of repeatedly harassing driv­ers on the Garden State Parkway by braking repeatedly, causing other motorists to tailgate. Karen Born, 52, was free on $27,500 bail, charged with harassment, falsely incriminating others and filing false reports to law enforcement. 
State Police Sgt. Brian Polite told the Asbury Park Press that state troopers issued a warrant for Born's arrest after 22 incidents of alleged harassment over the sum­mer. 
Polite said Born would call police after the other driver pulled over and claim the other driver was harassing and stalking her. 
It was not clear whether Born had retained an attorney. 
Gunshot victim eats before going to hospital 
NEW HAVEN, Conn. — Police say a 25-year-old Connecticut man who was shot twice after buying a sandwich at a New Haven deli went home and ate his lunch before going to the hospital. Miguel Soto said he was leaving the deli Tuesday when he heard three gunshots. One bullet hit him in the left leg, another in the groin. Police said he went home and ate the sand­wich before asking his father to take him to a hospital. 
Police did not say whether Soto realized immediately that he had been shot, or if he decid­ed the injuries were not serious enough to require an immediate hospital trip. 
Officers say his injuries were not life-threatening. A message was left Thursday for a New Haven police spokesman, and no arrests were immediately reported. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Game day sunday 






Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
Alumna Danielle Rose,a Catholic Christian music artist will perform tonight at 8 p.m. in the Keenan Hall Keenan Stanford Chapel. Suggested donation is $3. 
Student Activities Office is sponsoring Fortnight Productions: A Night of One Acts from 10-11 p.m. tonight in LaFortune Ballroom. The event is free and open to all students. Seating is limited. 
Student Union Board will be showing the film “Despicable Me” in DeBartolo Hall at 8 and 
10:30 p.m. tonight. Cost is $3. 
The College of Science will continue its Saturday Scholars Series this Saturday with the lecture “Your Shrimp Dinner: Overseas Aquaculture and its consequences for Utah’s Great Salt Lake.” The lecture, given by Professor Gary Belovshy, will take place at 11 a.m. in room 101 of the Jordan Hall of Science. 
The College of Arts and Letters will host the Saturday Scholar series this Saturday at 12 p.m in the Snite Museum’s Annenberg Auditorium. Agustin Fuentes of the department of anthropology will lecture on “What Race Is, and What It is Not: Why This Is Important.” 
The 2010 Breen Phillips Breast Cancer Run will take place this Sunday at 2 p.m. at the Fieldhouse Mall. Cost (including T-shirt) is $15. 
The film “Fantasia” will be shown Sunday at 3 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Cost is $3 for students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

monday tuesday 





ROTC honors Veteran’s Day 
By NORA KENNEY 
News Writer 
As the sun set on an unusually warm November evening at Notre Dame, members of the Notre Dame ROTC unit joined several distinguished guests Thursday at the Clarke Memorial Fountain, popularly known as Stonehenge, in honor of Veteran’s Day. 
The event was the culmination of a 24-hour period, beginning Wednesday at 5 p.m., during which members of the ROTC were placed for non-stop vigi­lance at the fountain in honor of those who have served the coun­try, especially POWs and MIAs. 
The ceremony began at 5:15 
p.m. Thursday evening with a moment of silence, the singing of the National Anthem and an invocation by Fr. Sean McGraw, an assistant professor of political science at Notre Dame. 
“The Veteran’s Day ceremony went very well today,” Midshipman Matthew Zak, the trimilitary commander for ROTC, said. “It is always amaz­ing to see all three units together in one place.” 
The ceremony’s guest speaker was Lt. Col. Charles E. Rice, pro­fessor emeritus at Notre Dame’s Law School. 
Addressing the four branches of the ROTC, who stood through­out the ceremony, Rice talked about the special relationship between ROTC and the University. 
“The ROTC have earned the respect of the people here at Notre Dame. We are proud of what you have done and we know you will carry into your service what you have learned here at Notre Dame.” 
University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh was also present for the ceremony. He addressed the crowd and spoke about the tradition of defending the nation as one that is deeply rooted in Notre Dame’s history. 
“There is no group here at Notre Dame that I am more proud to honor than the group standing before me,” he said. “This is a tradition that Fr. Sorin would uphold, as he started the Continental Cadets here at Notre Dame.” 


Congressman Joe Donnelly, a Notre Dame alumnus, also spoke at the event. He thanked the students for their service, as well as Fr. Hesburgh. 
“It should be noted that the strength of the ROTC at Notre Dame would not be so without Fr. Hesburgh. On behalf of the United States, Fr. Hesburgh, we thank you.” 
Donnelly spoke of men and women in the armed forces from Northwestern Indiana who had lost their lives in Iraq and Afghanistan, and of their courage and patriotism. 
“I have met some of our ROTC members in the toughest neigh­borhoods of Baghdad and they have said to me, ‘Sir, I have used the skills here that I learned at Notre Dame.’” 
Following Donnelly’s address, all members of the armed forces stood to be recognized, and the lone sound in the quiet dusk air was the melody of “Taps,” being played by junior Midshipmen Steve Prendergast. 
The ceremony concluded with a final prayer from Fr. McGraw, who said he was proud to be part of the event. 
“As a teacher of many ROTC students, I was just proud to be with them” McGraw said. “It just hits home how commitment and dedication these students put forward.” 
Zak said the ceremony is much more than a celebration of the armed forces and that it is a tribute to the relationship between the local community and the men and women fight­ing for the country. 
“This ceremony is always very meaningful to anyone who wears a uniform to honor the men and women that have come before us, and those serving today. Also having Fr. Hesburgh come and speak there always is a connection to the Notre Dame students who came before us and served in the military,” he said. “This event gives all of us a great appreciation of the support from the University and the South Bend community for the men and women in the armed forces.” 
Contact Nora Kenney at hkenney@nd.edu 



SMC hears “Top Ten” rules for life from CEO 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Vince Caponi, CEO of St. Vincent Health in Indianapolis and former trustee of Saint Mary’s College, spoke to Saint Mary’s students in a self-described “true David Letterman fashion” talk called “The Top 10 Rules to Live By.” 
The College’s “Cross Currents” program sponsored this talk as part of its ongoing Collegiate Speaker Series. 
Using anecdotal framework from his experiences with his daughters, Caponi addressed 
students with advice on how to approach the business world after graduation. Introducing his “top 10,” He told students that they should con­sider three things as they go through college and enter the business world. 
“In order to be a good student, person, employ­ee, there are three things we all want from our experiences: you want to be in on the things that affect you, you want recog­nition for a job well done, you want to know what you do makes a differ­
ence in people’s lives and have a very clear sight of what role you play,” Caponi said. 
He followed with his top 10 rules to live by. 
Caponi said his first two rules, humility and gratitude, were underrated traits of real leaders. Going into the busi­ness world, he said, someone would take a chance on you because you have no experi­ence, and it is important to demonstrate your thanks for the opportunities you are given. 
His third rule was about ethics. 
“The ethical part is your handshake; it is your honor,” Caponi said. “It’s something only you have and you are the only one who can make that positive of negative.” 
The fourth rule was to have a sense of humor, which is important because you have to learn to laugh at yourself. Caponi said laughter can help relieve tensions in a lot of diffi­cult situations. 
Caponi also said that every­one should have a “can-do, positive attitude.” He told stu­dents to remain positive, espe­
“In order to be a good student, person, employee, there are three things we all want from our experiences: You want to be in on the things that affect you, you want recognition for a job well done, you want to know what you do makes a difference in people’s lives and have a very clear insight of what role you play.” 
Vince Caponi CEO St. Vincent Health 
cially when first entering the career world. 
“There are people that walk around with a cloud over their heads, but that will get you nowhere,” Caponi said. “When you apply for jobs, there are going to be a lot of people who are going to tell you that you can’t do it, but you have to remember that you are a gift from God and that you have a unique talent.” 
Sixth on Caponi’s list 
was to love where you are. He said that if one does not receive their ideal position in the com­pany, take advantage of the opportunity because situations tend to work out in the end. 
As a seventh rule, Caponi said he would advise everyone to try and learn something new everyday. Learning new things, especially details about people, can break down the walls that divide us and allow us to start building relationships. His advice was to learn from out­lets that you don’t necessarily agree with. 
The eighth rule was to com­municate often and clearly. Caponi stressed the importance of communication, both verbal and physical communication. 
“In terms of jobs, communi­cation is very important,” Caponi said. “It’s really impor­tant that you do it clearly, understandably and often.” 
The ninth rule to live by, according to Caponi, was to remember that there are two sides to every story. Keeping this in mind, Caponi said to not rush to judgment and give peo­ple the benefit of the doubt. 
He also said that it is impor­tant to explore, probe and to find out the truth in these situ­ations. 
Caponi’s culminated his top 10 list with a rule that he said was probably the most impor­tant of the 10 — volunteer. 
He said location isn’t an excuse, because there is always an opportunity to spend time giving of yourself to oth­ers. 
“My advice to you is do what you do, and love what it is that you do,” Caponi said. 

Contact Megan Loney at mloney@nd.edu 


Crutchfield, the most widely Two focus groups met to dis-classes in the future should have ducing the devices at an earlier 
observed drawback to the iPad cuss the role of the iPad in the an understanding of apps that point in students’ college careers 

iPad 

was its e-reader capabilities, Notre Dame classroom after the are available, as well as provide would help facilitate further inte­continued from page 1 which contrasted with their ini-Project Management class students with some guidelines as gration of the device into regular 
tial prediction of the device’s via-ended. Student members of these to the device’s capabilities in learning. but not necessarily in the way we bility as an alternative to tradi-groups were able to provide relation to their specific class. “When students were asked anticipated.” tional textbooks. Crutchfield feedback about how they adapt-“Professors can set themselves how the devices would have 
Both Angst and Jon noted that most students had dif-ed to using the devices daily. up for failure if they allow stu-affected their learning if they Crutchfield, academic technolo-ficulty annotating and highlight-“Some older students told us dent use of the device to be had been given to them as fresh­gies consultant, emphasized the ing text in the electronic version that they had learned how to entirely organic,” Angst said. men, most agreed that they fact that high expectations usual-of their textbook and that mak-study successfully over the “Some students will embrace the would have learned to study ly go hand in hand with brand-ing the transition from a tradi-course of their time at Notre freedom, but others won’t bother using the tools provided,” new technologies, but these tional textbook proved challeng-Dame, so asking to figure out Crutchfield said. expectations usual-ing. them to switch to a how to use it if Angst said the ultimate goals of ly give way to “We thought different style of they are these pilot classes are centered 
“When studens were
marked decreases the e-book learning was a focused on around the student and his or 
“One thing that
in user satisfaction. aspect would c h a l l e n g e , ” asked how the more important her individual needs. However, that struck me was my be the Crutchfield said. things in terms “It all comes back to the stu­
devices would have
trend was not strongest deter-“Some of the stu-of academics.” dent choosing a device that 
students’ responses affected their
observed in this minant of value dents were more In terms of allows them to do the things they 
to whether they
initial test run at for students,” successful than learning if they had the ways stu-personally need to do, whether Notre Dame. thought they could Angst said. others at taking dents used the it’s the iPad or another device,” 
been given them as
“As people begin “Instead, stu-what they know iPad to fit their Angst said. 
learn more in any freshmen, most 
to use new tech-dents felt there and using it differ-n e e d s , Overall, Angst and Crutchfield 
class, not just Project
nologies, their sat-were limita-ently.” agreed that they Crutchfield said said the pilot achieved the goal of isfaction usually Management, using tions to reading The focus groups would have learned he was sur-providing more information goes way down books on the also compiled a list prised that a about the use of e-readers in the 
the iPad. Fifteen of to study using the
once they start to device, but they of the pros and few students classroom, and it will continue as 
them felt that they
find the limitations were willing to cons of using iPads tools provided.” typed all their the more data is gathered from of a device,” would learn more just give up optimal in the classroom. class notes on the current round of classes Crutchfield said. by having the device book reading However, the sur-the iPad’s key-using the iPad, including First 
Jon Crutchfeld 
“In this case, the for the iPad’s veys Angst admin-board. Year of Studies Dean Hugh 
available.” consultant
satisfaction level of other advan-istered to his stu-“It’s not the Page’s Contemplation and the students on the tages.” dents provided academic technologies greatest key-First Year Experience class, final survey was Corey Angst Angst and his more specific stu-board in the librarian Cheri Smith’s Library almost identical to professor students cited dent responses to world, so we Research course and Professor the expectations the device’s their individual use of the iPads. expected that to be a challenge,” Erin Ponisciak’s Law School 101 
Project Management
expressed in the portability, con-“One thing that struck me was Crutchfield said. class. The devices will be used in first survey.” solidation of my students’ responses to Despite the device’s draw-a Law School course and at least 
In response to information in whether they thought they could backs, Crutchfield said only two one foreign language course next the survey question, “Which one place, easy access to content, learn more in any class, not just students had technical problems semester, Crutchfield said. statement best sums up your functional versatility and con-Project Management, using the with their iPads, both of which “We weren’t looking to see if general feelings about using the nectedness as the iPad’s advan-iPad,” Angst said. “Fifteen of he said were easily resolved. the iPad was the perfect e-reader iPad in the Project Management tages. Angst also said many of them felt that they would learn Additionally, the device’s moni-or classroom support technolo­course?” only two of Angst’s 36 the applications available on the more just by having the device tored security settings prevented gy,” Crutchfield said. “But it gives students chose the answer “I did-iPad have significantly improved available.” one student from losing all his us a baseline to compare similar n’t like it,” as opposed to 12 stu-since the beginning of the class, Although students were data when his iPad was stolen devices in the future, which we dents who answered that they and he predicts the iPad and encouraged to use the iPads as from his car. still intend to do.” loved using the device during the other e-readers will function bet-they wished without being exten-Both Angst and Crutchfield class. ter as textbook alternatives in sively trained, Angst said that said that the pilot was valuable Contact Kristen Durbin at 
According to Angst and the future. professors who teach iPad-based in highlighting the fact that intro-kdurbin@nd.edu 



SMC alumna speaks aboutArmy experience 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s alumna Sarah Rykowski said she found the same sense of community in the United States Army that she felt during her time at Saint Mary’s College. 
“The same sort of sisterhood I had at Saint Mary’s I found in the Army,” she said. 
Rykowski returned to the College to speak in honor of Veterans’ Day Thursday in Carroll Auditorium. Rykowski shared her story with students, faculty, staff and community members. 
“Policy is about what’s happen­ing now, and we’re talking about what happened in 2007, but it’s relevant because it is about veter­ans in more than just myself,” she said. “Finally, it also takes time for many veterans to come for­ward about what happened and what their experiences were in their deployment.” 
After graduating from the College in 2002, Rykowski attend­ed law school before she decided to become a member of the Army. 
“I come from a family that has military service in my mom’s side which goes back to the Revolutionary War,” she said. 
Rykowski said she was commis­sioned into the Army on Sept. 11, 2005. 
In April 2007, she was deployed to Iraq to act as an additional attorney and as a foreign claims attorney, each for half of her deployment. 
Rykowski recounted her experi­ence on May 17, 2007, where she was wounded when the humvee she was riding in drove over an improvised explosive device. 
Rykowski said she and one other person survived the explo­sion, while three others did not. 
Rykowski sustained injuries to her arm and was treated by Army medics on the scene before being taken to the hospital. 
“You are kind of caught in a time warp … time has stopped but time is still moving and you don’t really know what is going on,” she said. 
Though Rykowski was wound­ed in Iraq, she remained opti­mistic and stressed the impor­tance of keeping a sense of humor. She explained how she joked around even when she was wounded. 
“We combat the somewhat scary, sad things with a sense of humor,” she said. 
After she was released from the hospital, Rykowski said Saint Mary’s alumna Shanna Conner Cronin, one of her close friends from the College, met her and kept her company. 
“We flew over to Camp Victory, and the first person to meet me off the aircraft was a Saint Mary’s girl,” she said. “She is one of my best friends. I talk with her every­day.” 
After her injury healed, Rykowski said she returned to her deployment and completed it. 
Rykowski was awarded with a Purple Heart for her service in Iraq, but she said it wasn’t the most important thing she drew from her deployment. 
“I felt more proud of finishing that deployment and kind of get­ting through it than I did actually getting the Purple Heart,” she said. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 


Malaria 
continued from page 1 

research examines evolutionary changes of the mosquito Anopheles Gambiae. 
Ferdig focuses on the vector, studying the parasite itself. His research looks at the malaria par­asite and its resistance to drugs. 
Together, with other researchers and scientists at Notre Dame, these biologists have been able to comprehensively look at the cause, the mosquito vector and the effect of malaria. 
“Malaria is a parasitic disease that is characteristic of poorer parts of the world, especially the tropics,” Besansky said. 
There are four types of malaria and while all cause harm, only one, malignant malaria, is always fatal, Besansky said. 
What makes malaria different than other vector-carried diseases is the complex life cycle of the parasite. 
“It would take me about 2 1/2 hours to tell you malaria’s lifecy­cle,” Ferdig said. 
Besansky said when a mosquito bites a human, the parasite first enters from the bite and then travels to the liver. After it leaves and the mosquito vector. While the human genome has already been mapped, the genomic research going on at Notre Dame is highly specialized and impor­tant to understanding infectious 
the liver, the para­site attacks the red blood cells. The red blood cells than burst and the para­site can re-enter the blood stream or attack another part of the body. 
What makes malaria a unique parasite is that both humans and mos­quitoes carry it. 
“The mosquito can transmit the parasite to a human, but if the 
“Malaria is a parasitic disease that is characteristic of poorer parts of the world, especially the tropics” 
Dr. Nora Besanky professor Biological Sciences 
disease in gen­eral. 
“Once we know all the genes of the vector, the par­asite and the human and know how they interact, we can under­stand how drugs would work to stop the parasite,” Ferdig said. “This is why the genome 
mosquito bites again, it can take the parasite back into its system in the blood meal,” Besansky said. 
One of the cutting edge research projects that is unique to Notre Dame is the genomic map­ping of both the malaria parasite stuff is so powerful. If you can break the cycle somewhere in the malaria life cycle, you can end the disease.” 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 



Ushers 
continued from page 1 
“When Rockne first had try­outs for ushers, 1,000 people came out to audition,” he said. 
The distinctive caps the ush­ers wear also started with Rockne. Ushers in the white caps are called captains — they are first level supervisors. Ushers in gold caps are the top supervisors. 
Gagnon, a 1966 Notre Dame alumnus, had a background in security and law enforcement before returning to campus 15 years ago to take a job as an usher, because he said he missed being at Notre Dame. Gagnon said his love for the University is a sentiment that many other ushers share and cite as a reason they join the pro­gram. In fact, 500 of the 850 ushers 

“The No. 1
work for free. ious back-Gagnon said the qualifcation is that grounds and usher application places all over 
the person has to be
process is very the country, but
willing to work a long
competitive. they all share “The No. 1 day, and be an one thing in qualification is common —
ambassador to Notre 
that the person their love for 
Dame. They have to 
has to be willing Notre Dame. to work a long be hospitible.” “I love my day, and be an job, just like all ambassador for the ushers — 
Cappy Gagnon 
Notre Dame,” he every one of 
head of ushers 
said. “They have to be hospitable. They have to look out for the safety of our guests in the Stadium, and occasionally have to enforce Stadium rules.” 
The ushers come from a vari­ety of backgrounds. 
“I have a former ND football player who has a national championship ring, I have an MIT graduate, I have a Yale graduate … I have a range of professions represented [including] a psychologist, architect, lawyers and college professors,” Gagnon said. 
Fifteen to 20 of the ushers are parents of former Notre Dame students, and only about eight are Notre Dame alums. 
A job as an usher is extremely rewarding, Gagnon said, but there are challenges that come with the job as well. 
“The most difficult thing is when you have to remove somebody from the Stadium because of a serious issue, when somebody’s fighting or heavily intoxicated,” he said. “[Another] difficult thing is when you have injuries or ill­nesses. We’ve had people fall or have heart attacks, or have heat-related issues, those kinds of issues that require a lot of care and concern.” 
Gagnon said the student sec­tion is the one place in the Stadium where he does not arbitrarily assign an usher. Every usher that works in the student section has volunteered to work there. 
“When I ask people ‘why did you sign up to work the student section,’ they all give the same answer, ‘We like the energy of being there with the students.’” 
Supervisor Shirley Cox also found that one of the best aspects of ushering is meeting new people. 
Cox started as an usher in the mid-90s when Notre Dame first opened up usher positions for women. At the time, Cox’s daughter was a student at Notre Dame. 
“[My daughter] got me involved to be an usher … I was visiting with her one day, and she said, ‘Mom, they’re going to be opening up ushers for women, would you be interest­ed?’ I said, ‘I love Notre Dame, I loved it from day one, I would love to do it.’” 
Cox said becoming an usher was a way for her to “give back to Notre Dame.” 
“I went for an interview ... I received the letter that I was one of the ushers, and I was thrilled,” she said. 
Cox’s daughter graduated in 1998, but Cox never gave up ushering. In fact, she has moved up the ranks since then. She started in section 108 as volunteer usher, then moved to section 125/126 and became a supervisor, and finally was moved to the tunnel and made a top supervisor.  
“I love the tunnel, to see the players come in, the band come in, the visiting teams, press conferences,” she said. “I’m there, I’m down by the field, and I have to pinch myself to 
say, ‘This is 
real, Shirley.’” 
Ushers may 
come from var-
them will tell 
you [that].” 
Gagnon said. “I 
loved [Notre Dame] from day one as a stu­dent when I came here 48 years ago, and my feelings haven’t changed in 48 years.” 
Cox recently broke her leg. She said she’s like a football player — “out for the season.” 
The broken leg, however, does not mean her time as an usher is over. 
“I’m going to be one of the usher statues — I’m going to be there a long, long time. I just love it too much,” Cox said. “I’m going to do it until I can’t do it anymore.” 
Scheibelhut shared similar sentiments. For him, 57 years as an usher simply isn’t long enough. 
“I figure I have another five, six years — as long as my legs hold out, I’m going to keep coming,” he said. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsen@nd.edu 


Whine 
continued from page 1 

cate with us, we figured it would be our responsibility to reach out to them, to kind of open up the channel of com­munication between students and student government,” she said. 
Student body vice president Andrew Bell said student feed­back is essential to having effective student leadership. 
“I think we can sit in here and try to think of ideas to change student government all day, but it wouldn’t be as effec­tive as going out and listening to students directly,” he said. 
Soler said that the most fre­quent suggestions involved din­ing halls, campus venue hours and campus safety. 
“We’ve got-
get a “Red Box” movie rental fixed now and what long term location in LaFun, and I got a problems we should address 
lot of responses about keeping different hours for venues at LaFun.” 
While most of the suggestions pertained to the more daily aspects of cam­pus life, Bell said there were also some more bizarre com­plaints. 
“I think the best one I got was I think from Zahm,” he said. “Someone com­plained their 

ten a lot of dining hall suggestions,” she said. “A  “We’ve gotten a lot of dining hall suggestions.”  thing like that.” Regardless of how outlandish the suggestion, he  
lot  of  other  said student gov- 
things  too.  Catherine Soler  ernment would be  
Some safety things, there’s  student body president  looking into every one of them.  
not  enough  “Even  though  
lighting  at  we’ve seen some  
certain parts  farfetched ones,  

of campus, and there were a we’re going to look through lot of calls to open up the tun-every complaint and consider nels. There was a suggestion to which are the ones that can be 
“I think we can sit in here and try to think of ideas to change student government all day, but it wouldn’t be as effective as going out and listening to students directly.” 
Andrew Bell student body vice president 
and go from there,” he said. 
Soler said col­lecting feedback highlighted the need for greater commu­nication between stu­dents and stu­dent leaders. 
“It’s been interesting for us because there’s a lot of things we’re hearing that we have answers to or have been addressed in the past,” she 
roommate was abducted by 
aliens but the administration wouldn’t believe them and come to their aid or some-said. “I think it’s just a sign that we’re not communicating well enough with them with information they should be privy to.” 
Soler and Bell encouraged students to bring questions, suggestions and complaints to student government at any time. 
“We’re always available in our office to come up and talk to us, and we’re available per­sonally by e-mail or on our stu­dent government e-mail,” Soler said. 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 



DNA test casts doubt on executed man’s guilt 
Associated Press 
DALLAS — A DNA test on a single hair has cast doubt on the guilt of a Texas man who was put to death 10 years ago for a liquor-store mur­der — an execution that went forward after then-Gov. George W. Bush's staff failed to tell him the condemned man was asking for genetic analysis of the strand. 
The hair had been the only piece of physical evidence linking Claude Jones to the crime scene. But the recently completed DNA analysis found it did not belong to Jones and instead may have come from the murder vic­tim. 
Barry Scheck, co-founder of the Innocence Project, a New York legal center that uses DNA to exonerate inmates and worked on Jones' case, acknowledged that the hair doesn't prove an innocent man was put to death. But he said the find­ings mean the evidence was insufficient under Texas law to convict Jones. 
Jones, a career criminal who steadfastly denied killing the liquor store 
owner, was executed by injection on Dec. 7, 2000, in the closing weeks of Bush’s term as governor and in mid­dle of the turbulent recount dispute in Florida that ended with Bush elected president. 
As the execution drew near, Jones was pressing the governor’s office for permis­sion to do a DNA test on the hair. But the briefing papers Bush was given by his staff didn't include the request for the testing, and Bush denied a reprieve, according to state documents obtained by the Innocence Project. 
Scheck said he believes “to a moral certainty” that Bush would have granted a 30-day reprieve had he known Jones was seeking DNA testing. 
“It is absolutely outrageous that no one told him that Claude Jones was asking for a DNA test,” Scheck said. “If you can’t rely on the gover­nor' s staff to inform him, something is really wrong with the system.” 
Bush had previously shown a willingness to test DNA evidence that could prove guilt or innocence in death penalty cases. Earlier in 2000, he had granted a reprieve to a death row inmate so that Scheck and other attorneys could have evidence tested. The test confirmed the man's guilt and he was executed. 
A spokesman for Bush, who is on a book tour, declined to comment Thursday. 
The other primary evi ­dence against Jones came from one of two alleged accomplices: Timothy Jordan, who did not enter the liquor store but was believed to have planned the robbery and provided the gun. Jordan testified that Jones told him he was the triggerman. However, under Texas law, accomplice testi­mony isn't enough to convict someone and must be sup­ported by other evidence. That other evidence was the hair. 
“There was not enough evi­dence to convict, and he shouldn't have been execut­ed,” Scheck said. 
Scheck, a death -penalty 
opponent, said the case shows that the risk of a trag­ic mistake by the legal sys­tem is just too high. “Reasonable people can dis­agree about the moral appropriateness of the death penalty. The issue that has arisen is the risk of execut­ing the wrong person,” he said. 
San Jacinto County District Attorney Bill Burnett, who prosecuted the case, died earlier this year. 
“I still think he was guilty,” Joe Hilzendager, the murder victim 's brother, said Thursday. “I think they exe­cuted the right man.” 
Former San Jacinto County Sheriff Lacy Rogers also said he is convinced Jones com­mitted the crime — “without a doubt in my mind.” 
In the nearly 35 years since capital punishment was reinstated in the U.S., there has never been a case in which someone was defin­itively proven innocent after being executed. That would be an explosive finding, since it would corroborate what opponents of the death penalty have long argued: that the legal system is flawed and that capital pun­ishment could result in a grave and irreversible error. 
Jones was condemned to die for the 1989 killing of liquor store owner Allen Hilzendager, who was shot three times outside the town of Point Blank, population 
559. Authorities said his get­away driver was Danny Dixon, previously convicted of shooting a girl between the eyes and burying her in a cemetery. 
During the trial, a forensic expert testified that he examined the hair under a microscope and concluded that it could have come from Jones but not from Dixon or the store owner. No DNA test was performed for the trial. 
Prosecutors also ham ­mered on Jones’ brutal past. While serving a 21 -year prison sentence in Kansas, he poured a flammable liq­uid on his cellmate and set him on fire, killing him. 
Jones was executed at age 60, the last person put to death during Bush’s time as governor. In his final state­ment, Jones did not acknowl­edge guilt but told the Hilzendager family he hoped his death “can bring some closure to y’all. I am sorry for your loss and hey, I love all y'all. Let's go.” 
More than three years after the execution, Jordan recanted his claim that Jones admitted to being the trig­german. In an affidavit, Jordan said he was scared, and “I testified to what they told me to say.” 
Texas is far and away the No. 1 death penalty state, having executed 464 people over the past three decades. 
The Jones case is second time this year that the guilt of an executed Texas inmate was thrown into doubt. Cameron Todd Willingham was put to death in 2004 after being convicted of set­ting the 1991 fire that killed his three daughters. But sev­eral renowned experts said earlier this year that the investigation of the fire was so flawed that the arson finding can't be supported. 
The hair in the Jones case was tested 10 years after the execution at the request of his son Duane, along with the Innocence Project, other groups and The Texas Observer magazine. Prosecutors agreed to the testing. 
“At the very least, if they had tested his DNA before he was executed, he could have gotten a new trial or his sen­tence overturned or changed,” Duane Jones said Thursday. He said his father “told me that he had robbed banks, that he was a thief. But he wasn't a person who would go out and murder someone on the street.” 


Travelers disembark nightmare cruise ship 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO — They can call it a nightmare. A cruise from hell. Even a Spamcation. Whatever they label it, the gru­eling three-day journey of the crippled Carnival Splendor is over, and the nearly 4,500 pas­sengers and crew members can forget about the backed-up toi­lets, the darkened, stuffy cab­ins and the canned meat. 
“I love being back on land,” said passenger Ken King, 42, of Los Angeles. 
As the ship docked on Thursday, people who had gathered on the decks and about 100 waiting onshore cheered loudly. Along the har­bor, tourists, joggers and fish­ermen stopped to snap photos. 
Passengers snapped up $20 T-shirts being sold on land with the phrase: “I survived the 2010 Carnival cruise Spamcation.” 
An engine fire aboard the 952-foot cruise liner on Monday morning knocked out power early in its seven-day trip to the Mexican Riviera, set­ting the ship adrift about 200 miles outside San Diego and 44 miles off the coast of Mexico. 
No one was hurt, but passen­gers said they were jolted awake by the fire. Few of them panicked. 
Smoke filled hallways toward the back of the ship, and a smoky odor reached the front cabins. Carnival said a crankcase split on one of the ship’s six diesel engines, caus­ing the fire. 
“It felt like an earthquake and sounded like a jackham­mer,” said Amber Haslerud, 27, of Chula Vista. 
The captain immediately announced that there would be no need to abandon ship, said Amy Watts, 25, of Seattle. “You think about the Titanic,” she said. 
The fire left the ship without air conditioning, hot water or hot food. The casino was closed and, for a time, so were the bars. The swimming pool was off-limits because the pumps wouldn’t work. 
Navy helicopters flew in Spam, Pop Tarts and canned crab meat and other goods. 
Passengers on lower decks had to climb as many as nine flights of stairs to get to the cafeteria only to meet long lines that stretched on for hours. By the time those at the end got to the food, they were left with tomatoes and lettuce, Haslerud said. 
Some passengers carried food to those who used walkers and canes and couldn’t climb stairs to reach the food lines. 
“We have not had a hot cup of coffee in four days,” said passenger Fahizah Alim, 26, of Sacramento, who ate at night by flashlight. “This was my first cruise and it was no luxury, no fun.” 
Passengers ended up getting by on a diet with lots of bread, vegetables and, sometimes, sandwich meat. 
“If you could see the things they put on sandwiches, seri­ously,” said Peg Fisher of Las Vegas, who was on her first cruise with her husband. “This could be the only cruise ever where people lost weight instead of gaining weight.” 
For her, getting by without working toilets on the first day was the biggest challenge. 
After 15 hours, she couldn’t wait any longer and hoped for the best as she flushed her cabin toilet. 
“I ran out in the halls, ‘The toilets flush!’ People were like, ‘Are you kidding?’ They went running into their cabins,” she said. 
Life gradually improved as the hours ticked by, with pas­sengers trying to pass time the low-tech way. 
Children played miniature golf and board games — before sunset. Kiara Arteaga, 11, from Visalia, Calif., said the crew taught the children how to the dance to Michael Jackson’s “Thriller.” 
“It was fun,” she said. 
Passengers sat on the deck and watched the sailors aboard the nearby aircraft carrier, USS Ronald Reagan. At night, they sang in the dark or resigned themselves to early bedtimes. 
About 250 magicians who were on the cruise for an industry convention enter­tained guests for hours. Live bands played, including one that drew chuckles by breaking into a song from the movie “Titanic.” 
By the second day there was free beer, wine and soda at the bars. 
“There were a lot of people getting smashed off warm beer,” said Chris Harlen, a Buena Park dental technician who was on board with his wife and two children. 
Gerry Cahill, chief executive of Carnival Corp.’s Carnival Cruise Lines, said he doubted other ships in the Miami-based company’s fleet were at risk. 
The National Transportation Safety Board said late Thursday that the probe into the fire’s cause would be con­ducted by Panama. Panama agreed to let the U.S. Coast Guard join the investigation because most of the passengers were U.S. citizens and two NTSB experts would assist, the NTSB said. 
The incident will be costly for Carnival, but it won’t have to repay the Navy for delivering food from the USS Ronald Reagan, which costs about $1 million a day to operate. The carrier was nearby on a train­ing mission, and responding to the ship was nothing more than a “minor distraction,” said Chief Petty Officer Terry Feeney. 
Passengers will get a refund, including airfare, and a free cruise. Those holding reserva­tions on the next Splendor cruise, which was scheduled to depart Sunday but was can­celed, will be offered full refunds and a 25 percent dis­count on a future cruise. 
Several passengers said they would take Carnival’s offer for a free cruise. 
“I’m a math person. What are the chances this would happen twice to the same person? I’m going with the odds. We’re from Vegas. We’re coming back,” Fisher said. 
About 75 buses took passen­gers to locations including Long Beach, where the Splendor is based. Passengers also were given the option of staying overnight at San Diego hotels. 
Magician Gary Grabel said he was looking forward to spend­ing the next few days in the city. 
“To kind of catch up on my vacation,” he said. 

Artisans reincarnate tree 
Associated Press 

YARMOUTH, Maine — In life, New England’s champi­
on 
elm tree, nicknamed Herbie, stretched more than 100 feet skyward, towering 

over 
its neighbors and becoming a local landmark. 


Nearly 10 months after being dismantled by chain saw, the majestic tree has been reincarnated by arti­sans into a variety of items including a stunning electric items include a bench that incorporates pitch forks and another with pick axes for legs. 
But perhaps the most striking of all is the guitar that looks almost too nice to play, created by Andrew Olson, who makes guitars and mandolins in Freeport. 
“When I first heard the story that the tree was com­ing down, just being a gui­tar builder and wood maker, I wanted to get my hands on 

guitar. The custom guitar, some of that along with baseball bats, wood,” Olson upscale furniture and other said. keepsakes, will be auc -His finished tioned off Saturday to bene-product is a fit the Yarmouth tree trust. solid body 
“It ’s mindboggling how guitar with much has been done with Herbie’s it,” said Jan Ames Santerre, wood in the senior planner with the body and the Maine Forest Service, one of neck, along the sponsors in The Herbie with an Project. ebony finger-
One of the tallest board, suit ­American elms in the coun-able for rock try, the 110-foot-tree sur-and blues. vived 14 bouts of Dutch elm Bidding disease, thanks to the starts at town’s longtime tree war-$3,500. 
Over five decades, Knight oversaw selective pruning of Herbie’s diseased limbs, and applications of insecticides and fungicides. The pair became well known, both in Yarmouth and beyond. Eventually, however, the tree succumbed to Dutch elm disease and was cut down on Jan. 19. 
Herbie was 217 years old, meaning it was a seedling in 1793, the year President George Washington began 
“When I first heard the story that the tree was coming down, just being a guitar builder and wood maker, I wanted to get my hands on some of that wood.” 
Andrew Olson Wood worker 
his second term and Eli Whitney cre­ated his cot­ton gin. 
Knight already has a couple of keepsakes from Herbie. A night stand that ’s 100 percent Herbie is in the dining room of his house. He also has a 
walking stick made from Herbie. 
Joined Thursday by his friend Deb Hopkins, the town’s current tree warden, Knight said he still marvels at all the interest generated by Herbie, described by Knight as an “old friend.” He said many people told him they shed tears over his loss, but Knight said he’s doing just fine. 
“Sad about Herbie? No, there ’s a time for every ­thing. There’s no question about it,” he said. “It’s way beyond my time now. Nothing is forever. Nothing is forever.” 

den, Frank Knight, who’s now 102. 
But Herbie had to be cut down in January after suc­cumbing to the fungal dis­ease. 
Seeking a silver lining, the town divvied up the 15-ton trunk and massive limbs among various artisans, who found unique ways to give Herbie new life. 
Those include a mantle clock, lamps, walking sticks, a music stand, baseball bats, tables, benches, bowls, platters, a desk, step stools, bottle stops and jew­elry boxes. A few whimsical 
Olson said he hopes the buyer isn’t afraid to play it. 
“As far as I’m concerned, every musical instrument should be played. I like the idea of it being a piece of art that’s being used to cre­ate music at the same time,” he said. 
Another unusual piece is an intricately carved por­trait of Knight. 
Knight, Yarmouth’s volun­teer tree warden, realized he couldn’t save the town’s elms as they succumbed to Dutch elm disease. So he focused his efforts on Herbie. 


Experts fear suicide copycats 
Associated Press 

PHILADELPHIA — The experts call it “contagion” when a suicide or rash of sui­cides inspires others to follow in an attempt at martyrdom or solidarity in death. 
Most people would call them copycat suicides. Whatever the name, it appears to have been at play in at least one suicide since Rutgers University fresh­man Tyler Clementi’s highly publicized jump off the George Washington Bridge. And experts fear that other recent suicides might fit the mold or that more are ahead. 
That creates a conundrum for advocates who want to stop teenage bullying and their related suicides, as well as for the media outlets that cover them: how to spread the word without romanticizing the problem or unwittingly encour­aging vulnerable teenagers to choose death. 
“They may see this as a somewhat glamorous ending — that the youth got lots of atten­tion, lots of sympathy, lots of national concern that they never got in life,” said Anara Guard, a senior adviser at the Boston-based Suicide Prevention Resource Center. “The second possible factor is that vulnerable youth may feel like, ‘If they couldn’t cut it, nei­ther can I.’” 
Someone who’s mentally ill may learn about a suicide and consider it a reasonable option, said Madelyn Gould, professor of psychiatry and public health at Columbia University in New York: “A vulnerable person might say, ‘That stopped the pain,’” she said. 
Experts say that while conta­gion is a real issue, it’s getting more difficult to identify. 
Ann Haas, director of pre­vention programs at the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, said that before the Internet, it was rela­tively easy to track the phe­nomenon. When several hap­pened within the circulation area of a newspaper, contagion was likely a factor. 
But when news knows no geographical boundaries, she said, it’s hard to tell whether the suicides are linked. And Clementi’s death reached far­ther than most suicide stories do. 
Authorities say the 18-year­old killed himself after learning that his Rutgers roommate and another student peeked via webcam as he had an intimate encounter with a man. His death followed a string of sui­cides by teens nationwide believed to have been bullied for their perceived sexual ori­entation and quickly became a cause celebre. 
A pair of issues long known to gay rights advocates and suicide prevention experts soon became more widely known: Gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgender youth are more likely to attempt suicide than their straight counterparts. And bullied youths are more likely to try suicide than those who aren’t. 
“There was no way that Tyler Clementi’s death was not going to be covered,” said Columbia University’s Gould. “He jumped from the George Washington Bridge, and he mobilized the need for a lot of prevention efforts. It’s a good aftermath of a horribly tragic event.” 
President Barack Obama and talk show host Ellen DeGeneres posted videos online calling for an end to bullying. One day last month became “Wear Purple Day” to protest bullying. New Jersey lawmakers touted anti-bullying legislation that took on more urgency after Clementi’s death. 
Then, last week, a Pennsylvania teenager stepped in front of a tractor-trailer, leaving behind a note saying that he was tired of being called “faggot” and “sissy” — and that he wanted to draw more attention to the problem of bullying. 
By the count of the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention, it was at least the sixth suicide of a young person in the U.S. who was gay or tor­mented for being gay since Clementi’s death. Experts won­der whether the latest cases are at least partly reactions to the Rutgers case — and the only people who know for sure are the victims. 
Scholars can’t say whether either problem is getting more severe or just more widely reported because no data show what percentage of gay youths or bullying victims are suicidal. Most of the nation’s 34,000 sui­cides a year don’t get coverage. 
Or, perhaps, the suicides are like those that have been hap­pening all along, but these are attracting media attention because of the new focus on the previously neglected prob­lem of bullying-related suicide. 
Laura McGinnis, spokes­woman for The Trevor Project, which runs crisis intervention and suicide prevention pro­grams aimed at gay youths, said that since Clementi’s death her group’s crisis hot line has handled about 75 percent more calls than usual. Requests from schools and community leaders for “survival kits” have spiked even more, she said. 
It’s important for people who are feeling suicidal to know where to turn to for help, whether it’s a hot line, a friend or a hospital, she said. 
“There are people out there who can help you, who are willing to listen, to help you be the person you feel inside that you are,” she said. 
To reduce the chance of con­tagion, media outlets should be careful not to conclude that suicides are the result of just one factor — and they should show the pain the suicides cause for families, said Roy Peter Clark, a senior scholar at the Poynter Institute, a journal­ism think tank in St. Petersburg, Fla. 
“It’s not whether you cover these, but how you cover them,” Clark said. 
It’s not usually a single event that triggers a suicide, Haas said, and most people who kill themselves are depressed or dealing with other mental ill­ness. 

ICEandjails’relationship concerns immigrants 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Luis Guerra swore he had nothing to do with any murder, that whoever picked him out of a lineup was wrong. Still, he was held at the Rikers Island jail for more than a year before the charges were dropped. 
It didn’t end there. Federal immigration officials stepped in because Guerra was in the country illegally, brought over from Mexico as a child. He ended up in federal immigration detention in Texas before being allowed to return to Manhattan; he’s now waiting to find out whether he’ll be shipped to a country he hasn’t seen since he was 9. 
Merely being at Rikers put him on the radar of the federal Immigration and Customs Enforcement bureau, said Guerra, 21, who’s trying to get a college degree while awaiting word on his future. City authori­ties made “a mistake, and now I’m paying for their mistake,” he said. “I was living a normal life before.” 
Removing illegal immigrants who come in contact with the criminal justice system is a sig­nificant part of ICE’s nationwide enforcement efforts, but it needs the cooperation of local law enforcement to do so. The rela­tionships that make it work are causing concern not just in New York, but also in places like Arlington County, Va.; Washington, D.C.; Santa Clara County, Calif.; and San Francisco. 
Immigrant advocates and some politicians find it disturb­ing that local officials work with ICE on identifying illegal immi­grants. In New York, they say, it puts a city that owes its exis­tence to immigrants in the deportation business and breeds fear among immigrants that any contact with authorities — even reporting crimes — could have severe consequences. 
“It is really not a good idea to have large segments of your community be afraid of law enforcement,” said Nancy Morawetz, a professor at the New York University School of Law and part of its Immigrant Rights Clinic. 
Guerra, testifying at a City Council hearing on the issue Wednesday, said he saw that firsthand after his 2007 arrest on a second-degree murder charge. 
“There were people who wit­nessed the murder, people who could have cleared my name,” he said, “but they were afraid to go to the police after they heard what was happening to me with immigration.” 
ICE has had a presence at New York’s main jail complex for at least 15 years. The city Department of Correction says federal regulations require it to comply with things like detain­ers that ICE puts on inmates it wants custody of. 
In the 2010 fiscal year, 3,155 out of 13,386 foreign-born inmates had ICE detainers, and 2,552 of them were released directly into federal custody when they were discharged from Rikers, the department said. Nationwide, about half of the nearly 393,000 people removed from the country in the past year were criminals, according to Homeland Security Department statistics. 
“Our top priority is to identify and remove criminal convicted aliens who post a threat to the community and to national security," said ICE spokesman Ivan Ortiz-Delgado. 
ICE says the city is obligated to hold anyone the agency has put a detainer on, and Department of Correction spokeswoman Sharman Stein echoed that. 
If anything, ICE should be tak­ing more people into the deten­tion and deportation system, said Mark Krikorian, executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies, which sup­ports tighter controls on immi­gration. 
He argued that every illegal immigrant is deportable at any time, and that as it is, ICE exer­cises discretion in terms of whom it detains. Advocates’ fears of a dragnet dragging are overblown, he said. 
“I’d be ecstatic if this program worked the way immigrant rights groups fear it does,” he said. 
The federal agency often comes under fire for its prac­tices, with critics citing issues like transfers of detainees far away from family and friends, and people in the system having limited access to legal resources that could allow them to stay in the country. 
The city is going along with that by not exercising more care in who gets turned over to ICE, critics say. It’s one thing for peo­ple convicted of violent felonies to be turned over, they say; it’s another for someone convicted of a misdemeanor or of nothing at all. 
That would include Jose Reyes, a legal resident from the Dominican Republic. Arrested in May 2009 after an argument with his ex’s new boyfriend, an immigration detainer was put on him because of a misde­meanor drug arrest from 1997. He was able to avoid deporta­tion after that case was reopened and the charge taken down to disorderly conduct. 
“They say they’re trying to arrest only criminals,” he said through a translator at Wednesday’s hearing. "It is not fair that people who have these small convictions are deported." 
Critics also worry what the future holds as the Secure Communities program, a more extensive immigration enforce­ment effort not yet in use in New York City, continues to be implemented around the coun­try as part of a national rollout planned by 2013. 
There is confusion over whether localities can opt out of the program, under which the fingerprints of anyone arrested for anything from a traffic viola­tion to a violent crime are auto­matically checked against feder­al immigration records. 
Arlington County, Washington and Santa Clara County voted recently to opt out the program, saying it could lead to racial profiling, and San Francisco officials tried — with no luck — to drop it. 
“I understand that the goal of the relationship between ICE and the Department of Correction is one that is based on the goal of public safety, and keeping New York City residents safe from individuals who are criminals and could do harm,” Council Speaker Christine Quinn, among New York’s most powerful politicians, said Wednesday. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 10 Friday, November 12, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Dining hall disaster 
It’s 12:35 p.m., Monday afternoon. South Quad is bustling, I’ve been in class since 8 a.m., and there’s noth­ing I want more than to get a quick lunch before heading back to Keough, probably for an excessive-John Cameron ly-long nap my roommates will News judge me for tak-Production 
Editor 

ing. One thing stands between me and that lunch-nap combo: a massive crowd. 
I guess then it’s more like two thousand things. After waiting two minutes to get swiped in, things are looking even worse: This truly is a feeding frenzy. 
It seems like a million people are going in all directions, with no dis­cernible flow or organization, while employees look flustered and push giant carts of food or dishes around, pausing occasionally to awkwardly wedge between students to drop off a pile of plates. Add to this the fact that more than half of the student body seems to get extremely con­fused with the moving and stopping process once they step inside, and it adds up to a frustrating mess. Don’t even get me started on the corner 
between the vegetables and grill. 
What seems like a full 20 minutes later (minutes of napping I’ll never get back), I walk into the dining area and do the usual pause, look around ... look around ... look around ... “There they are.” I sit down, probably sweating a little at this point. My friends are at all dif­ferent stages in the dining process: One has just started eating, another is wrapping up, one just got fro-yo while another is paging through The Observer, (probably skipping the Inside Column) obviously ready to leave. The whole situation is less than ideal. 
Sure, I could go downstairs and get grab-n-go, but some days seven points just doesn’t cut it. Maybe (but probably not) North Dining Hall will be less congested, but honestly, who in their right mind wants NDH food when there’s South? 
I don’t know what the possible solutions are. Maybe it’s a change in layout to loosen up traffic, maybe an improvement to grab-n-go, maybe they can tell the freshmen there’s a dorm party on North Quad. What I do know is that there’s got to be something that can be done to make the dining hall rush hour a little less awful. 
As it’s been 57 years since the last was built, maybe it’s time for the University to think about adding another dining hall location. While I appreciate the community-based experience of meeting up with peo­ple at a single location, there’s something to be said for the state school, “I get dinner on the first floor of my dorm” lifestyle. Notre Dame’s been expanding and building up anyway, maybe one of the next projects can be a new dining hall. It would probably benefit the stress level and sanity of the entire student body. 
P.S. Freshmen — there’s a dorm party on North Quad tomorrow at 
12:35 p.m. 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
Super sad Senior Day 

The class of 2011 has gotten to see the story happen, as painful and frustrating as it’s been. We have some ownership over it — and maybe in 50 years, if Notre Dame hits a slump again, we too, will be able to write to The Observer and com­plain about how ungrateful the student body is for the gift they’ve been given. 
But for now, we are students. If only for a few more months. And we’ve seen how teams still feel that beating Notre Dame is the greatest victory in their program’s history (see statements by the coaches of Tulsa, Connecticut and Syracuse). We watched the hiring and firing of Notre Dame coaches take over ESPN last fall, and we’ve even seen our losses 
make headlines. 

Why? Because it’s still Notre Dame. 
In 2007, the lows were the lowest in Notre Dame history — the first loss to Navy in nearly half a century, not to mention 38-0 beatings from USC and Michigan. But an upset win over UCLA, a senior day victory (the last one Notre Dame 
Stadium has seen) against Duke and a season-ending romp ver­sus Stanford kept our spirits alive. 
The next fall, a riotous victory in the rain over the Wolverines was balanced out by a snowball-laden loss versus Syracuse on Senior Day. 
Yet the Hawaii Bowl that Christmas and the shut-out win over Nevada to start the 2009 season were enough to sustain us through a string of last-minute wins (over Purdue, Washington and Michigan State). 
We started calling ourselves the “Cardiac Catholics” and, despite a down-to-the-wire loss to Michigan, Notre Dame entered USC week on a high unmatched since then. Campus that week was electric. Signs were hung from dorm windows, bumper stickers prosephying Irish victory were slapped on light posts and a brigade of students scrawled slogans on sidewalks with chalk. Students and visitors alike crowded at the entrance to the Notre Dame Stadium to “greet” the Trojans for their walk-through. Even the desktop wallpapers in the computer clusters proclaimed “Go Irish, Beat Trojans.” The game itself was outrageously exciting, neck and neck until the very end — when Notre Dame lost. 
We can’t really assess the highs and lows of this season, since we still have three games to go. For seniors, it’s been yet anoth­er year of excitement and hope reined in by disappointment and frustration. 
But if Notre Dame football is like that bad movie you still love to watch, then some of the moments from this year seem like outtakes, those scenes too ridiculous to make the final cut. 
The fake field goal at Michigan State. Losing in the final min­
utes to Michigan. Getting stomped by Navy — again. 
An interception in the end zone when an easy field goal by a perfect kicker would have been made a sure win over Tulsa. 
Notre Dame football is supposed to be about tra­dition and honor and winning — that’s what we think when coming in as hopeful, spirited freshmen. The final moments against Tulsa encapsulated the 
last four years of Notre Dame football — what seems like a sure thing ends up falling apart. 
Yet even when it does, we still stick around. We still buy sea­son tickets, we still buy The Shirt, we still go to tailgates, and try as we might to keep it cool, we still get worked up over Notre Dame football precisely because it is more than a game. 
Though so many times over the past four years we have wished the season had ended sooner, we are heartbroken that this is the true finale. 
And wherever seniors are next fall, we will have our Irish gear with us. We will brag about our status as the class with the most losses in Notre Dame history, but we will still tune in every Saturday and support our team to the point of being obnoxious. 
Notre Dame still matters to college football coaches and play­ers, to television viewers and to journalists and bloggers across the country. But it matters even more to the seniors who will stand for their last Alma Mater Saturday. 
And it always will. 



EDITORIAL CARTOON 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The habit of giving only enhancesthe desire to give.” 
Walt Whitman 
U.S. poet 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“God does not ask us to be successful. He asks us to be faithful.” 
Mother Theresa Indian humanitarian 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Friday, November 12, 2010 page 11 
The meaning of freedom 
Freedom is “the absence of necessity, coercion or constraint in choice or action” (legal definition). The word freedom dom­inates the U.S. political discourse. While the nature of the word is expansive, its use in U.S. politics has been deduced to a concrete and tightly bound definition of personal choice without the interfer­ence of government. This interpretation of the word and its portrayal as the founder’s sole 

Chris Rhodenbaugh 
intention defined the rhetoric of the 

In Pursuit of 
wave of conserva-

Social Justice 
tive victories in 2010. 

What was left out of 2010 debate is that there is a spectrum of freedom that spans from government intruding on individual freedom by requiring certain behavior from its citizens, to an economic structure that chains people to economic necessity in their decision making. The debate of what it means to be free is not as simplis­tic as conservatives like to believe. A per­son who must choose to turn down treat­ment for a disease because her family can­not afford it, is equally relevant to the dis­cussion of freedom as someone who is forced to buy health insurance to prevent free-riding and bring costs down for everyone. Let the citizens choose whether they want to prevent government from protecting citizens from medical tragedies due to economic constraints, but it is unjust to claim that more government involvement in health care unequivocally means less freedom. 
Before further argument, it must be exposed how far the lines have been moved on the definition of freedom. The 
4.6 percent tax increase President Obama is seeking on the wealthiest two percent to a rate of 39.6 percent, the highest tax rate under Clinton when the budget was bal­anced and more than 22 million jobs were created, has been compared to socialism and a government takeover of the econo­my. These claims become increasingly hyperbolic the more history is examined. The new tax rate under President Obama on the highest earners would be consider­ably lower for that tax bracket than the rates of three Republican presidents in their third year in office, prior to being reelected. Under the Eisenhower adminis­tration the U.S. had a top marginal income tax rate of 91 percent, under Nixon it was 
71.75 percent and finally under Reagan it was 50 percent. 
While it is always a temptation to create growth as fast as possible by dismantling what appear to be irrational limitations, the temptations must occasionally be refused. A new political class has been elected that believe the U.S. needs to dras­tically reduce restraints on business designed to protect society. The core belief is that taking away the freedom of business to act in its best interest is what is preventing our economy from a full recovery. Democrats do not want to stop business, President Obama and the vast majority of Democrats are ardent capital­ists who believe a system of competition and markets drives ingenuity and efficien­cy, but they also believe speed limits must be set that ensure the long term health of society. 
It is a natural impulse to want to get somewhere as fast as possible or to have it as cheap as possible, but without con­straint that urge has likely created prob­lems for every American. The same will occur across society when regulations are removed, and programs designed to keep the financially vulnerable above water while they recover their health, work to find employment or get an education will be cut in order to reduce taxes on busi­nesses and the wealthiest two percent. 
The United States will never represent anything but the strength and opportunity of capitalism despite the worst fears of the right. Setting limits to ensure the health of civil society is not an infringement on the founding values of this country or the free­doms of individual citizens. It is not anti-business to disagree with business some of the time. In reality, business functions bet­ter in the long term if there is some basis of equality to drive aggregate demand. The United States is at risk to succumbing to a systemic risk of democratic gover­nance, that short term need or pleasure, will replace sound and balanced long term economic growth and societal health. 
It is important to have a social infra­structure in society designed to promote freedom from making choices based on economic need. Are seniors more free when cost cutting results in the retirement age on social security being pushed to 70? Should the poor have the freedom to know they can temporarily feed their families with food stamps in order to buy other necessities for their family? Or should their success in the free market determine the family’s survival? Should Americans have the freedom to pollute the environ­ment or the freedom to live with clean air, clean water, and a stable climate? Should companies have the freedom to mislead people into debt they cannot afford, or should people be protected against exploitative contracts written by the nation’s wealthiest lawyers? Do people have the freedom of using their voice in democracy? Or is it more important that the government not regulate campaign donations letting corporate money take over elections? These are debates on free­dom that should not have clear partisan lines. Unfortunately, these issues are robbed of a fair hearing when one party monopolizes the definition of freedom. 
A real discussion of freedom in America does not leave out the millions of Americans who work hard and play by the rules only to remain in poverty. No one is less free in the United States than the 43.6 million people that live in poverty accord­ing to the Census Bureau. In 2010, one in five U.S. families admit to struggling to put food on the table and 20 percent of chil­dren are growing up in poverty. Should we put freedom from government influence ahead of the success of the next genera­tion? It is fair to debate the level of which government should be involved to ensure opportunity and a safe and just society, but it is dishonest to claim that the only domestic force threatening the freedom of 
U.S. citizens is the U.S. government. 
Chris Rhodenbaugh is a senior political science major and editor of www.LeftysLastCry.com, Notre Dame's Progressive Headquarters. He can be contacted at crhodenb@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

One last chance 
This weekend our senior class will stand in the Notre Dame student section one last time as members of the student body: one more chance to pack into the stands with your closest friends, and one more chance to fill Notre Dame Stadium with the proud voice of its students. This is a class that has experienced four of the toughest years any Notre Dame fan has had to endure, yet has faith­fully arrived at each new game with their chins held high. 
As you file in through Gate E this weekend, take a look around you and soak it all in. This is something special that so few people ever get to experience. The spirit, tradition and loyalty of Notre Dame’s student body are unsurpassed by any other university. 
So I write to you now as a fellow student and a senior contemplating my last chance to cheer on our football team at home this weekend. Throughout the last four years our loyalty has never wavered — don’t allow it to falter now. Come out and support your team at home one last time this weekend, beginning at the pep rally Friday night. There will be a parade and walk over from Main Circle at 
6:00 p.m. to Irish Green, a senior tribute during the pep rally and fireworks afterwards, so it will definitely be a good show. Our football team needs us now, more than ever, to show up and prove to them that we still believe. 
Go Irish! Beat Utah! 

David Zimmer 
senior Notre Dame Leprechaun Nov. 11 
Thank you Security Hut 
Call me warmhearted, but upon reading the SMCurity (Nov. 9) of a fellow Saint Mary’s student I felt compelled to stop by the Security Hut at Saint Mary’s and personally deliver hugs and Christmas grams to everyone present. Perhaps Ms. Hagopian’s claim wherein SMC Security preys on parked cars is true, but the reference made in regards to their appetites and “indelible marks” left by their navy uniform pants is fallacious, irrelevant and abusive. She certainly has every right to freedom of speech and expression, but allow me to say her views are not representative of the entire Saint Mary’s community. On behalf of my friends and I, please know that we are grateful for all Security has done to ensure the safety and “SMCurity” of their Belles. 
Christina Grasso 
senior Saint Mary’s Nov. 11 
Response to Annex SMC  
As a senior at Saint Mary’s I’ve had the pleasure of enjoying four years of the “draconian, single-sex education” referenced in Annex SMC (Nov. 10). Your first incorrect assumption is that the women of Saint Mary’s share your perspective that having no male, computer science majors (sorry Mark) in their midst is somehow oppressive or relegates them to lives of medi­ocrity, but I digress. 
Notre Dame is a storied institution with a national footprint/brand, impeccable resources, quality faculty members, a strong, supportive alumni organization, and impeccable adherence to its mission. I have the greatest respect for the history and reputation of Notre Dame. With that said, Saint Mary’s needs to give no ground to Notre Dame or to defend its academic excel­lence versus any other institution. Saint Mary’s has an equally commendable history of fulfill­ing its unique mission as a highly respected liberal arts college. 
You thoughtfully pointed out many benefits to Notre Dame merging with Saint Mary’s, but did I miss the part about gains to Saint Mary’s? Having us available to help with football recruiting is the least we could do if you would allow us to join the Notre Dame family. And the addition of funds to the Sisters of Holy Cross coffers from the Notre Dame endowment ... eure­ka! 
Of course, our lives would be forever changed by gaining the prestige of a Notre Dame degree, even though the addition of Saint Mary’s would no doubt meaningfully degrade the value of the Notre Dame brand. Dealing with the gender imbalance would, as you suggest, be a huge hurdle, but one that you could overcome with time. The women of Saint Mary’s would not think for a minute that you view Notre Dame students as being superior to the “chicks” at Saint Mary’s. From your article, it sounds like you have done your due diligence and have become intimately familiar with all the dimensions of life at Saint Mary’s. Your bio says you are a computer science major and therefore must be highly intelligent (especially compared to Saint Mary’s women) so I would not question your thought leadership on the annexation pro­posal. 
At the same time, I do wonder about a couple things. Currently, I enjoy the best of both worlds. Notre Dame is gracious enough to provide access to academic disciplines not offered at Saint Mary’s, is willing to share a variety of resources, provides access to football and bas­ketball tickets, and allows me to share their zip code. Our social lives at Saint Mary’s can be as intertwined as we want them to be with the Notre Dame students (you didn’t reference that but I’m sure you have been an active participant, unless you have been consumed with preparing your thoughtful presentation on the merger of Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame?). All of these points make me reflect on why it would be beneficial to be bought by Notre Dame (even though, as you point out, it is a far superior school), when I already enjoy many of its offerings. It is also hard to ignore that Saint Mary’s offers the liberal arts degree that I CHOSE to obtain, a challenging academic environment, non-need based academic scholarships, very strong alumni connections, a beautiful campus, great facilities, humility and other admirable values and the list goes on. 
You do make a compelling case for annexing Saint Mary’s, Mark, and I am so thankful that you are working hard to make a difference for the less fortunate and to help enrich my life. For your efforts to help me avoid a life of quiet desperation, the opportunity to tend to my six children, and the freedom to do all I can to make life easier for my husband when he comes home from the third shift at the coal mine, I will be eternally grateful. As you already know, “ignorance is bliss.” 
With respect and gratitude, 
Elizabeth Cress 
senior Saint Mary’s Nov. 11 

Scene
page 12 Friday, November 12, 2010 


The Irish locker room used to hold only 70 players, forcing walk-ons to suit up across the street before pregame warm-ups. A room was expanded and more lockers added in the 1997 renovation. 

After the thrill of the game has passed ushers begin to clean the Stadium. They start at the top row (there are 
81 in all), using leafblowers to send trash down toward the field. This is all finished by Monday afternoon, but
in the meantime, sometime flocks of birds like this one sometimes descend to pick up some scraps. 

Stadium ushers inspect benches after each game to check for splits or breaks. The benches are made from California redwood, an expensive material, but one that can withstand football fans. There’s a good chance some of the planks date back to Stadium’s first season in 1930. 
The Observer 

Scene
Friday, November 12, 2010 page 13 

DAN JACOBS/The Observer DAN JACOBS/The Observer 
Cappy Gagnon, right, the head usher, points out the NBC cameras that capture One of the remnants of the original 1930 Stadium are the restrooms in the pregame rituals like hitting the “Go Irish Go” sign at the top of the stairs leading Irish locker room, complete with exposed pipes and a stall door that never from the locker room to the tunnel. stays closed. 


The press conference room, shown on the left, also doubles as a lounge for players past (alumni) and future (recruits). The University level of the press box, shown right, also hosts various dinners, even residence hall dances, when it’s not full during football weekends. 



PAT COVENEY/The Observer 

In the above photo, more than 100 journalists sit on the third level of the press box to watch and report on the games. At left is the University president’s pri­vate box. It comes with two great views: one of the whole field and another of the back cross campus. 
The “Play Like a Champion Today” sign first went up during the Lou Holtz era, but now it’s so much a part of tradition that a replica comes along for away games. 

NFL 

Colorado fres Dan Hawkins after tough loss to Kansas 
Associated Press 
Dan Hawkins was fired as football coach at Colorado three days after the biggest meltdown in school history put a cap on his five failed seasons with the Buffaloes. 
Athletic director Mike Bohn promoted longtime assistant Brian Cabral to interim coach for the final three games of the season, beginning Saturday against Iowa State at Folsom Field. 
Bohn said search for a new coach would begin immediately. 
The final loss came Saturday. Colorado blew a 28-point lead at Kansas when the Jayhawks scored 35 points over the final 11 minutes for a stunning 52-45 win. It was the biggest collapse in the 121-year-old program’s history. 
Hawkins stepped up to the podium at a news conference Tuesday, thanking former coaches, players and team per­sonnel as he spoke for nearly 13 minutes, ending his speech with “Go Buffs.” 
“I know it’s been a tough time for every Buff faithful. Hopefully, we can get those things remedied,” said Hawkins, who addressed the team and informed them of his removal first thing Tuesday morning. “I really hope the neg­ativity that might surround me doesn’t surround them. They don’t deserve that. It’s my responsibility and I take full responsibility for that.” 
Quarterback Cody Hawkins, the son of Dan Hawkins, was among the seniors who addressed the media, saying he found out Sunday night. 
“I had a little time to deal with it,” Cody Hawkins said. “College football is a business. There are a lot of great guys in this business who kind of get put out on the street.” 
Dan Hawkins was one of the hottest coaches in the nation when he was brought to Boulder to replace Gary Barnett, whose tenure was marred by scandal and a 70-3 loss to Texas in the Big 12 title game after the 2005 season. 
This season, the Buffs started 3-1 but have lost five in a row in the Big 12, increasing the call for Hawkins’ ouster, especially after Saturday’s loss when he walked out on his postgame radio interview. 
“While we recognize the progress that we have made in several areas during nearly five years under Dan, the negativity and divisiveness that is associ­ated with the current leader­ship has become detrimental and is beyond repair to our cur­rent enterprise and it’s time to make a change.” 
As for future plans, Dan Hawkins said those remain unknown. 
“Life’s an adventure: I’ve always sort of looked at it like that,” he said. “I’m sure I’ll coach again at some point, at some place. ... I’m going to be a passionate spectator here for the next three, hopefully four games.” 
Over the weekend, it appeared that Hawkins may retain his job. Bohn issued a statement Saturday night after flying back from Lawrence, Kan., that did not mention Hawkins’ job status. 
However, Hawkins continued to take heat for having his quarterback son throwing the ball in the fourth quarter instead of running out the clock with a big lead. Some argued Dan Hawkins was more focused about getting his son the school’s all-time passing record 

than he was about securing the sidered for the opening. “My win. role again is very much like last “Here we go again,” smiled time I sat here. ... My role is to Cabral, who’s hoping to be con-calm the storm.” 
NFL 

Players’ union rejects NFL’s health care proposal 
Associated Press  “Let’s not have a select few covered,” she said. “It is our  ers and their spouses if the spouse chooses to purchase the  the union, Yaras-Davis said. “If you are, say, 59 years old,  John Mackey, who suffers from dementia, and Mike Haynes,  
The players union has reject- belief the company will reject  same  coverage  you know you  who has battled prostate can­ 
ed a proposal from the NFL on  them  ...  and a significant num­ given to the play- have general  cer, would not qualify for the  
long-term care for former play­ers, saying the supplemental  ber of seemingly healthy play­ers will not be covered.”  er.” George Martin,  “With our group of  health issues: high blood  coverage. But the league noted that  
policy would exclude too many of them. Miki Yara-Davis, senior director of bene­fits for the NFLPA, said Thursday that the union sent a  “We expect, as does the insurer, that 80 percent or more of retired players in this group would qualify.”  The NFL said the policy would be available to 2,500 of 3,200 eligible players and their spouses. “We expect, as does the  executive director of NFL Alumni, supports the poli­cy, calling it a first starting point toward ensuring former players have necessary health care cover­age.  players, we know they have some concussion-related mental health issues.” Miki Yaras-Davis Senior director of NFLPA  p r e s s u r e , high choles-terol. It could be prostate cancer in that age group,” she said. “With our group of play­ers, we know  there are other policies to cover those medical issues. “Any retiree disqualified due to dementia, ALS or another cognitive disorder will have access to the benefits of The 88 Plan,” McCarthy said. The 88 Plan, named after Mackey, provides funding from the NFL and the union to help  
letter to the l e a g u e W e d n e s d a y  Brian McCarthy NFL Spokesman  insurer, that 80 percent or more of retired  “I am very dis­appointed,” said Martin, the former defensive  sion-related  they have some concus­mental health  with the care of players afflicted with dementia or related brain problems.  
rebuffing  the  players in this  end of the New York Giants.  issues, brain trauma issues,  Martin, whose independent  
proposal  that  group  would  “There’s  a  cadre of former  heart-related problems. That’s  group is charged with  con- 
was  presented  qualify,” NFL  ballplayers who would have  to say nothing of the players  fronting  a  variety of issues  
during negotiations for a new  spokesman Brian McCarthy  passed it with flying colors.”  already permanently afflicted  involving former players, hopes  
collective bargaining agree- said. “This means that 2,500  Martin even sent a letter last  with arthritis.  the union reconsiders.  
ment. Yara-Davis said too many  retired players would qualify  month to NFL Commissioner  “We are looking at a group  “Why are you criticizing the  
former  players aged  50-75  for hundreds of thousands of  Roger Goodell and NFLPA exec- that can easily be disqualified  source if at the end of day that  
would not pass a screening by  dollars in long-term care bene­ utive director  from coverage for many things,  source will provide an unprece- 
TransAmerica, the insurance  fits that they do not receive  The plan would cover institu­ some  of which  are  football- dented benefit for a large group  
company that would underwrite  today.  tional  care  and home health  related and some of which are  of players,” he said. “It’s not the  
the plan, because those players  “The policy has many desir­ care  for up to four years, at  not.”  wise approach; look at what  
have pre-existing conditions  able features, including a 30-40  $150  a  day.  The  premium  Yaras-Davis stressed  that  that benefit will provide for the  
from playing football.  percent discount for both play- would be split by the league and  such Hall of Fame players as  larger audience.”  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Chess Lessons: USCF and FIDE UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't Glee quotes: (International Chess Federation) go it alone. Notre Dame has many
FOR SALE FOR RENT PERSONAL resources in place to assist you. Kurt: You can't punch the gay out of Master, 2010 Indiana State Chess me any more than I can punch the Champion and coach of 1997/8 K-8 ignoramus out of you. 
House for sale on Angela. 2.5K sq Housing available for next school National Championship team If you or someone you love needs ft home. year. 2 to 5 bedroom homes. If you or someone you care about confidential support or assistance, has been sexually assaulted, we Dennis Monokroussos is offering please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 Sue: Know what kind of disgusting 4BR 3.5BA. can help. lessons to players of all ages and or Ann Firth at 1-2685. images I'm gonna need to stare at 
Close to campus. Good rates and levels (local &amp;amp;amp; now to get that out of my head? Furniture ?, fully redone. $365K good landlord. online). 574-232-2211 For more information, visit Notre For more information, visit ND's Gonna have to go to the wound 
Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu. Please contact historicchess@com-website at: http://pregnancysup-care center. Gonna have to stare at On web at 610.sbrp.us L easing now. 574-276-2333 cast.net for rates and information. port@nd.edu. some wounds. 
——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
NBA 

Heat fall to Celtics again 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — New roster, same problem for the Miami Heat. 
They just can’t find a way to beat the Boston Celtics. 
Ray Allen hit his first seven 3­point tries and finished with 35 points, Paul Pierce added 25 and the Celtics led wire-to-wire in a 112-107 win over Miami on Thursday night, beating the Heat for the second time this season and handing them a second straight home loss. 
Boston has won 13 of the last 14 regular-season meetings in addition to eliminating Miami in the opening round of last sea­son’s playoffs. Then, the Celtics ended the LeBron James era in Cleveland a couple of weeks later, setting the wheels in motion for James, Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh to team up in Miami. 
Rajon Rondo finished with 16 assists and Kevin Garnett had 16 points and 13 rebounds for Boston, which led by as many as 20. 
James finished with 35 points, 10 rebounds and nine assists, narrowly missing his second straight triple-double. Wade was held to eight points on 2-for-12 shooting. The Heat got within 110-107 on Udonis Haslem’s free throws with 13.3 seconds left, but Allen hit a pair of free throws to seal it. 
The Celtics topped the Heat 88­80 in the season opener Oct. 26, and Miami insisted it had gotten better since then. 
So, apparently, had Boston. 
Allen hit seven 3-pointers for the 22nd time in his regular-sea­son career, and there was noth­ing sneaky about the way he got open, either. It was as simple as Allen running to the open spot, and waiting to see if the Celtics could get the ball to him. 
When they did, he made the Heat pay. His last 3 might have been the biggest — it put Boston up 102-89 midway through the fourth quarter, and the Celtics held on from there in a frantic finish. 
Haslem had 21 points and 10 rebounds for Miami, which got 13 points from Eddie House. Nate Robinson added 12 for the Celtics, who moved to 7-2. 
The Celtics wasted no time tak­ing control, making nine of their first 15 shots. Some were down­right spectacular: Glen Davis set a pick on House, giving Rondo a full head of steam to blow past Bosh for a highlight-caliber dunk and a 22-10 lead. 
Even the breaks went Boston’s way. 
Midway through the second, Rondo tried a bullet pass down the center of the court in transi­tion, only to have Wade get a hand on the ball and tip it off the backboard. Didn’t matter — Davis, remarkably agile for someone listed at 289 pounds, was running at full steam, reached back and managed to get just enough of his paw on the ball to tip it in for a 39-29 Boston edge. 
By halftime, it was 61-46, and a defensive debacle that started Tuesday hadn’t yet ended. 
In a 53-minute stretch of bas­ketball at home, counting the overtime against Utah, the Heat’s defensive numbers were just plain offensive. They gave up 145 points on 62 percent shoot­ing over roughly the equivalent of a full game, which wouldn’t be good enough to beat any NBA club. 
And certainly not the defend­ing Eastern Conference champi­ons. 
Not the way Allen was shoot­ing. 
At times, Boston appeared to be putting on a clinic. Using only a touch pass, Rondo swung the ball crosscourt to Allen for an open 3 from the right wing. Garnett worked the two-man game with Davis to perfection. Shaquille O’Neal merely stood his ground on a drive by Wade, swatting the ball away while barely moving. 
The Heat tried just about any­thing to get a spark. Zydrunas Ilgauskas started at center in the second half over Joel Anthony. Jerry Stackhouse and Mario Chalmers were in the rotation, as the Heat went 11-deep — some­thing that hardly ever happens. 
Nothing worked. 
Even when Miami made a little run, Boston had an answer. When the Heat got within 32-28 in the second quarter, the Celtics held them to two field goals in the ensuing 5½ minutes. When Wade got his first field goal of the night early in the third, Allen scored five points in about 90 seconds to push the Boston lead to 20. And when Haslem got Miami within 97-89 with 8:17 remaining, Robinson hit a run­ner in the lane, followed quickly by Allen’s seventh 3-pointer of the night. 
Miami had one more run left, and when Wade tried a 3 with 
3:33 left, the Heat nearly got within four. But the shot rattled out, Pierce made a fadeaway on the ensuing possession to push Boston’s lead back to nine, and Miami’s standing-room-only crowd soon began heading for the exits. 
NHL 
Rangers end home woes against Sabres 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Martin Biron had no intention of subbing for top Rangers goalie Henrik Lundqvist. That doesn’t mean he wasn’t ready to go once he got the late call. 
Biron made 29 saves on the shortest of notice and earned his second win of the season when Artem Anisimov scored his second goal of the game 
1:32 into overtime to lift New York to a 3-2 victory over the Buffalo Sabres on Thursday night. 
All signs pointed to this being a day off for the veteran goalie, but Biron was pressed into action when Lundqvist showed up sick. 
“He said he wasn’t feeling that great. I didn’t know what that meant,” said Biron, who played for the second time in three games. “It was about a quarter after five, a few min­utes after our meeting. 
“I was already in game mode. That is part of the job. If you are going to go or not, you have to be ready to go at any time.” 
Anisimov netted the winner after he found a loose puck in the slot for a shot past backup goalie Jhonas Enroth. 
Ruslan Fedotenko had a goal and assist for the Rangers, whose offense got a big boost when top scorer Marian Gaborik rejoined the lineup after missing 12 games due to a separated shoulder. He did-n’t get onto the score sheet, but Gaborik recorded three shots in nearly 19 minutes of ice time. 
“We’ve been struggling in our building, so it’s a huge win,” he said. “I haven’t played for three weeks, but I feel pretty good.” 
Tyler Ennis and Mike Grier scored for Buffalo, which lost to New York for the second time this season. 
The Sabres went to overtime for the third straight game after winning the previous two in shootouts. The Sabres pulled out a 5-4 win at New Jersey on Wednesday night with Enroth in net when Devils forward Ilya Kovalchuk lost the puck off his stick without getting off a shot on the final attempt. 
Enroth made 25 saves in his fourth appearance in five games in place of reigning Vezina Trophy winner Ryan Miller, who is sidelined because of a lower body injury. 
Buffalo earned five of six points on its three-game road trip. The Sabres are 5-3-2 on the road, but winless at home (0-6-1). 
“It’s something to build off of,” Enroth said. “Hopefully we can take how we play on the road back home.” 
The Rangers had lost two straight at home and four of five at Madison Square Garden. They appeared to be on a similar path in the third period when Fedotenko had a goal waved off because offi­cials said the whistle was blown before the puck went into the net. Buffalo also earned its second power play with 6:06 left in regulation. 


MLB 

Jeter’s negotiations with Yankees going well 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Derek Jeter’s grandmother has been joking that he doesn’t have a job. 
“Really it doesn’t feel like there’s anything different,” the New York Yankees captain said Thursday about becoming a free agent for the first time. “I under­stand there’s negotiations that are going to come and those sorts of things, but for me per­sonally I don’t feel any different.” 
Jeter and his agent, Casey Close, met with general manager Brian Cashman, managing gen­eral partner Hal Steinbrenner and team president Randy Levine on Monday in Tampa, Fla. Jeter said the meeting “set the framework” for contract negotia­tions and went well. 
“It really wasn’t that big of a deal,” he said. “It wasn’t like meeting people for the first time. It really wasn’t that complicat­ed.” 
Cashman, Jeter and fellow free agent Mariano Rivera were all together in New York on Thursday night, but not for negotiations. Before attending former manager Joe Torre’s Safe At Home Foundation benefit, they couldn’t avoid contract talk. 
“It’d be nice to get it over with so you don’t have to answer any more questions,” Jeter said. “It’s not just reporters. You walk down the street and people want to know, ‘Come play for this team. Come play for that team.’” 
Cashman described the negoti­ations with Jeter as in their “infancy stages.” 
“He wants us as much as we want him,” Cashman said. 
Rivera said of his contract negotiations: “I don’t know any­thing.” 
Cashman’s busy week also included sitting down with free-agent target Cliff Lee and his wife in Little Rock, Ark., on Wednesday. It was the first time Cashman had met the ace left-hander. 
“Just seemed like a great guy that’s not very excitable, excel­lent at what he does, knows what he wants to do,” Cashman said. “Wants to put his family in the best position possible. Wants to be happy. Wants to be suc­cessful. Wants to be part of a winner.” 
The Yankees’ competition probably will include the Texas Rangers, who acquired Lee in July and rode him to their first World Series appearance. 
“This is a place that intrigues them a great deal,” Cashman said of the Lees coming to New York. “But unfortunately there’s other places I’m sure intrigue them as well.” 
Cashman also met with Jorge Posada on Monday. The 39-year­old catcher had arthroscopic surgery to repair a small tear in the meniscus of his left knee Wednesday. 
“We had a good, honest, direct conversation,” Cashman said. “He was professional. All he wants to do is win, and he wants to play. If things go the way we’re drawing it up, he’ll be in the lineup as the DH. But I told him he needs to prepare as a catcher at the same time, because it doesn’t mean things will go the way you expect.” 
Posada was limited to 120 games last season, including 83 at catcher, as he shared time with Francisco Cervelli. Jesus Montero, a Triple-A All-Star at Scranton/Wilkes-Barre, is expected to be brought up some­time next season. The Yankees also have another promising prospect in Double-A catcher Austin Romine. 
“I’m sure he’s going to want to prove that he has more games in him to catch,” Cashman said. “I’m sure Montero’s going to want to prove it’s time for him to catch. I’m sure Romine’s going through that, ‘Hey, why is Montero getting all the ink? They should be writing about me.’ I’m sure Cervelli is in the middle of this thing saying, ‘Hey, this is a bunch of (junk). I should be the guy they’re talking about being the everyday guy.’ 
“It creates great competition. That’s what I want.” 
Cashman is also searching for a pitching coach after Dave Eiland was fired following the season. The GM started inter­views Thursday, talking to bullpen coach Mike Harkey and Oakland Athletics roving pitching instructor Gil Patterson. 
Cashman said that once the Yankees re-sign their free-agent stars, “I don’t think there’s a lot more work to be done” this off­season other than adding a start­ing pitcher. He’s still waiting to hear from Andy Pettitte, who hasn’t decided whether to play next season or retire. 
But first those free agents have to be re-signed. The Yankees must decide just how valuable Jeter is on and off the field as he comes off a season in which he hit a career-low .270 and turned 36. 
“I’m glad I’m not Brian Cashman that has to put a dollar sign on it,” Torre said. 
Asked if other teams would pursue Jeter and Rivera, Cashman said, “Hope not. I’m sure we’ll wind up paying them as if they are.” 


SMC CROSS COUNTRY 

Conference fnish propels Belles to NCAA Championships 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Sports Writer 
The Belles secured their high­est-ever conference finish at the MIAA Championships and are ready to carry that momentum into the NCAA Division III Regionals. 
Led by sophomore Julia Kenney, Saint Mary’s followed Calvin and Hope in the MIAA Championships for a third-place finish. 
“Securing third place in the conference was huge for us as a team,” Belles coach Jackie Bauters said. “It was a big confi­dence booster and allowed the team to see what their true poten­tial is individually and collective­ly.” 
Though Bauters says the team has had “positive feelings and success” all year, she believes the MIAA finish will help propel them forward going into regionals. 
“I believe it has given them more drive to push themselves,” Bauters said. “Everyone learned something different coming out of Championships that needs to be applied to the regional meet, so they have been working on their area of improvement. The team is really working on just putting all the pieces together to run the best race possible. They have all of the tools and work in place, so it’s really about applying the race strategy to get them to the finish line knowing it was a smart race, and they don’t have anything left.” 
The Belles have several stand­out leaders and runners to thank for their recent success. 
“I think what really distinguish­es this year form other years is the cohesiveness of the team and their shared vision,” Bauters said. “Our captains, [senior] Catie Salyer, [senior] Lauren Easton and [junior] Joanne Almond have really helped to keep the team focused on our goals and disci­plined throughout the season.” 
She added, “That being said, this team is unique because everyone plays an active role in our success.” 
Bauters noted several top per­formances from the Belles at the championships and predicts improvement going into regionals. 
“Julia [Kenney] is looking to make a run at qualifying for nationals,” Bauters said. “Everything in practice says she has what it takes to compete for a position, but it is going to be tough, so we’re looking to see her shine whether she makes the cut or not.” 
“Joanne is ready to have a standout race,” Bauters said. “We haven’t even seen the tip of her potential yet, and I feel confident the mental preparation she’s been doing will lead to a great race.” 
The final five should combine with Kenney and Almond for a tremendous race. 
“[Sophomore] Emma [Baker], Catie [Salyer], [senior] Sam [Wassel], [sophomore] Angela [Nebesny] and [senior] Clare [McVey] all look primed to have season best so I’m hoping they work together like they do in practice and we’ll have a success­ful day,” Bauters said. 
Bauters looks to continue build­ing records for the Belles at regionals. 
“As a team our highest finish at regionals was 15th,” she said. “Our goal is to be better that and my prediction is we will.” 
The Belles head to Hope College Saturday to take on the NCAA Division III Regionals. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
FENCING 
NFL 
Ryan leads Falcons to 

Two of nation’s best to clash 
State are the national champi-
By MATT ROBISON 

ons. But I believe we will make 
Sports Writer 

some finals.” 
But, it is early in the year and This weekend, the No. 1 Irish most fencers are just trying to will face defending national get their form down to prepare champion Penn State in a for the midseason grind. matchup that will pin two of the “The fall semester is mostly for best programs in the country individual tournaments where head to head. In the NCAA fencers are getting their rank by 
Championships  positioning the  
last  season,  competition,”  
Notre Dame fin- B e d n a r k s k i  
ished third behind the Nittany Lions and St. John’s.  “It will be tough because it is a lion cage.”  said. On top of the matchup being and  
The matchup  early season  
with the Nittany Lions has proved  Janusz Bednarski Irish coach  debut for many fencers,  

to be a tough one in the past and looks to be that way again this season. Last year, the Irish earned two gold medals in the matchups, and 13 other Irish performers turned in top­10 finishes. 
“Our goal is to make a couple of finals, somebody should be close to the final or medal in the top four,” Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. “It will be tough because it is a lion’s cage. Penn Notre Dame’s 
top perform­

ers will not even be present. Sophomore Courtney Hurley and junior Ewa Nelip are in Paris this weekend for the World Championships. 
That, however, should not slow the Irish down too much, according to Bednarski. 
“We have a lot of good fencers that did not qualify for the national team, but they will com­pete well,” Bednarski said. 
To prepare for such a formida­
home win over Ravens 

ble foe, the Irish have been working on their form and con­ditioning. 
“We have had some individual sparring, simulating bouting,” Bednarski said. “There have been some fierce bouts. All of [the fencers] are trying to get starting positions, to get to the tournaments, to be able to be on the team. 
Bednarski credited the efforts of his coaching staff, Jim Seacord, Gia Kvaratskhelia, and Marek Stepien, in preparing the Notre Dame squad. 
“We have a lot of preseason conditioning programs,” Bednarski said. “Coach Jim Seacord did a great job, prepar­ing them very well. We are try­ing to bring them to good speed, good tactical solutions, so we will see how it will be.” 
The matchup gets underway this weekend Nov. 13 and 14 in University Park, Pa. The women’s squad will compete Saturday, with the men following Sunday. 
Contact Matt Robison at 
mrobison@nd.edu 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA — Having a squan­dered a 13-point lead, Matty Ice and his favorite receiver looked at each on the sideline and knew what they had to do. 
Take it to the end zone. 
Roddy White hauled in a 33­yard touchdown pass from Matt Ryan with 20 seconds remaining and the Atlanta Falcons bounced back after blowing a fourth-quar­ter lead, rallying past the Baltimore Ravens 26-21 Thursday in a prime-time matchup between two of the NFL’s top teams. 
If this was a Super Bowl pre­view, it’s going to be quite a game in Big D. 
“That might have been the most the intense game I’ve ever been involved with at any level of football,” said Falcons coach Mike Smith, a former Ravens assistant. 
Baltimore appeared to be on its way to the victory when Joe Flacco threw a 9-yard touch­down pass to Todd Heap with 
1:05 left. “You think it’s your game,” 
Flacco said. “You think it’s over.” 
Not so fast. 
Not with 65 seconds left for Ryan and White to work their magic. 
“After they scored, we were on the sideline. We just looked at each other and smiled, man,” White said. “We just relish moments like this. We knew we were going to go down there and get what we needed to win this game.” 
Ryan needed less than a minute to pull off an 80-yard drive, hooking up with Michael Jenkins on a huge third-down pass along the sideline before going back to his favorite receiv­er for the winner. 
Ryan rolled to his left to get away from the pressure, and White shoved off Josh Wilson with his right hand to get free, sending the cornerback tumbling to the turf. Ryan delivered the ball perfectly, White caught it with no one around and cruised into the end zone. 
Wilson hopped up, screaming for a penalty. But the official kept the yellow flag in his back pocket and held up both arms. Touchdown. 
White knew he got away with one. 
“Yeah, you’ve got to do whatev­er you’ve got to do to win,” he said. “It was one-on-one cover­age with one guy. But he was kind of flat-footed, and he tried to grab me, so I just pushed him down.” 
White was listed as question­able for the game after hurting his right knee in last Sunday’s win over Tampa Bay and practic­ing only once during the short week. But he had a big smile when he danced out of the tunnel during the pregame introduc­tions and clearly wasn’t both­ered. 
He finished with 12 catches for 138 yards, giving him a stagger­ing 70 catches for the season. Ryan threw a career-high 50 passes, completing 32 of them for 316 yards and three touchdowns. 
“We’ve been in these situations before,” said Ryan, who improved to 18-1 when starting at home. “We were confident. Nobody blinked. We just went out there and executed. We only needed three, but we got six.” 


ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Runners to wrap up season 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish head into the final leg of their season running high after fifth-and sixth-place fin­ishes at the Big East Championships. 
Two weeks ago, the Irish men finished fifth out of 14 teams while the women ranked sixth out of 16. 
Senior Dan Jackson led the No. 30 Irish men, finishing 12th overall with a time of 25:32. Freshman Martin Grady fol­lowed, finishing 20th overall in 
25:59 with sophomore Jeremy Rae and junior Jonathan Shawel finishing close behind in 26th and 27th place. Junior Jordan Carlson came in 44th place and senior Mat Abernathy finished in 53rd. 
Syracuse won the men’s race and was followed up by Louisville, Providence and Villanova. 
For the women, freshman Meg Ryan led the pack, finish­ing 30th. Senior Erica Watson followed in 33rd, trailed by sophomore Rebecca Tracy in 38th. Junior Rachel Velarde and freshman were Kelly Curan 42nd and 47th, respectively. 
Villanova won the women’s gold. Georgetown finished sec­ond while Syracuse came in third. The top five was rounded out by Providence and West Virginia. 
This weekend, the Irish head to Oakland University for the NCAA Great Lakes Regional. They will face a slate that includes Butler, Cincinnati, Dayton, Eastern Michigan, Indiana State, Indiana, Marquette, Miami (Ohio), Michigan, Michigan State, Oakland, Ohio State, Purdue, Toledo, Valparaiso and Wisconsin. 


Wisconsin is currently ranked No. 5 in the nation on the men’s side while Indiana is No. 12. For the women, Michigan State is No. 16 while Michigan is No. 
18. Toledo is No. 30. In the 2009 Regionals, the men finished seventh overall out of 30 teams. The women won the 32-team women’s race. 
Velarde, Watson and Tracy all contributed to the Irish win in 2009. Velarde automatically qualified for the NCAA Championships because of this race. 
Jackson, Carlson and Shawel ran in the top five for the Irish men. The men’s top five in 2009 consisted of Wisconsin, Michigan State, Ohio State, Indiana and Butler. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
NBA 
Chicago routs road-weary Golden State 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — Derrick Rose and the Chicago Bulls knew exactly how to take advantage of a tired opponent. 
Luol Deng scored 26 points, Rose had 22 and Chicago raced to a 30-point lead in the first half en route to a 120-90 romp over the weary Golden State Warriors on Thursday night. 
“When you see a team come in on a back-to-back you’ve got to get up on offense and get down the court and push the ball,” Rose said. “It starts with the defense getting a lot of deflections, guys rebound the ball good and push it. That’s when we’re dangerous.” 
Rose added 13 assists for his third double-double of the sea­son. He finished one assist shy of his career best, which he’s increased twice already this season. Rose is handing out 9.6 assists per game, 3.3 better than he averaged in either of his first two NBA seasons. 
Monta Ellis had 24 points to lead the Warriors, who pulled out a 122-117 victory in New York on Wednesday night. Stephen Curry added 17 points for Golden State, which played without ailing forward David Lee. 
“We were short-handed with­out David,” Curry said. “But there’s no excuse for playing that bad.” 
Bulls guard Keith Bogans had his best game of the season, with 14 points and six steals. He also did a nice job defensive­ly of keeping Ellis under con­trol. 
“Monta is one of the best scorers in the league,” Bogans said. “At practice they were killing me today, saying he might have 50 tonight. 
“I went home and got ready to play. I wanted to come in and make everything tough for him. He’s a great player. And they did a great job of helping me out also.” 
Rose and Deng combined for 39 points in a first half that Chicago dominated in every facet of the game. The Bulls outrebounded Golden State 26­20 and forced 11 turnovers (leading to 21 points) while committing only four. They out-shot the Warriors 53.1 percent to 39.1 percent. 
Still, Bulls coach Tom Thibodeau said he was never really satisfied with the big lead. 
“You never feel comfortable with them,” Thibodeau said. “They can score quickly. I thought it was important for us to get off to a lead and play from a lead. The way they score points, you can never relax.” 


MEN’S SWIMMING 

Irish hope to rebound from loss to Purdue 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a loss to Purdue last weekend, Notre Dame will compete against the University of Utah Friday. 
The Utes lost their last meet two weeks ago against Denver. 
Junior Eric Bonicelli and sophomore Garret Beamen will lead the Utes at the meet after victories in their previous meet. Bonicelli won the 200-yard but­terfly, while Beamen came in first in the 100-yard freestyle. The Irish will counter the Utes’ attack in those races with Tylor Gauger in the 200 butterfly and Frank Dyer in the 100 freestyle. 
Senior captain Mike Sullivan said that he wants this next meet against Utah as a spring­board for the rest of the sea­son. 
“The team really just needs to keep doing what we’re doing,” Sullivan said. “We have gotten faster every meet up to this point. If we can continue that trend, we’re not only going to be in a good position for the Utah meet, but for the rest of the season including the Big East and NCAA meets.” 

The meet against the Utes will mark the fifth meet for the Irish. Irish coach Tim Welsh said that he looks for gradual improvement in the meets early in the season. 
“We are putting all of our eggs in the improvement bas­ket,” Welsh said. “This is the last home meet this semester, so we are very excited.” 
The Utes have not faced the Irish since the 2005 Notre Dame Invitational and Welsh said facing an unfamiliar team is a big challenge. 
“They are an unknown team from a good conference,” Welsh said. “They are from altitude, so that means some­thing.” 
The meet will start tomorrow at 5 p.m. at the Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Squad travels for fnal games 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
The Irish hope for a successful weekend in the Garden State, as they wrap up their regular season with conference matches on the road at Rutgers and Seton Hall. 
As their season comes to a close, Irish coach Debbie Brown reflected on how her team as grown over the season. 
“We made tremendous strides this year, with definite progress from week to week,” Brown said. 
With the Big East tournament looming and a possible NCAA Tournament berth on the line, Notre Dame’s play this weekend of play will be critical to its post­season future. 
“Every time we play we want to stay in a good rhythm,” Brown said. “This weekend is important because [with the Big East tour­nament next weekend] we want to be in a position where we are going to feel good about our play.” 
Importantly, the Irish are peak­ing at just the right time in the season, according to Brown. 
“We are playing our best volley­ball of the season right now,” Brown said. “Despite the losses, we played a really good brand of volleyball recently. We still have Big East tournament which will be an opportunity to maybe secure NCAA tournament bid which has been primary goal from onset.” 
The first test for the Irish (15­11, 8-4 Big East) this weekend is Saturday against Rutgers (10-16, 2-10). Brown said the Scarlet Knights will produce a unique set of challenges for the Irish. 

“Although Rutgers hasn’t done as well in conference as other teams, they are a really good serving team,” Brown said. “We will need to really emphasize passing and being able to get into our system of play, even on a tough serve.” 
Notre Dame next travels to Seton Hall (12-16, 6-6 Big East) for a contest with the Pirates. Brown said Seton Hall’s consis­tency makes them a difficult team to beat. 
“Seton Hall is a really balanced team with great ball control ball,” she said. “They typically have long rallies and don’t beat them­selves.” 
The Irish begin play at 10 a.m. Saturday against Rutgers and 2 
p.m. Sunday at Seton Hall. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Season-opening tilt fnally arrives 

By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
A week and a half is a long time to go between games. No. 12 Notre Dame won’t have that problem again for a while, though. 
The Irish will face New Hampshire in their season-opener today, nine days after beginning their 2010 cam­paign with a 102-30 exhibi­tion win over Michigan Tech on Nov. 3. 
“We got our first exhibition game out of the way, and we had a scrimmage so it’s kind of nice that it’s real and we’re starting to get into the season when we have a couple games back to back and not a week and a cou­ple days to wait, ” senior 


captain Brittany M a l l o r y s a i d .  “I think every one of the starting fve will  S k y l D i g g i n s  a r a n d  
“ We ’re e xci t ed  set the tone for the  s e n i o r  f o r - 
and antsy to get out there.”  whole team.”  w a r d D e v e r e a u x  
T h e  c o n t e s t  Peters  as  the  
a g a i n s t  t h e  Brittany Mallory  s t a r t e r s  
Wildcats will be the first of four  Irish senior captain  e n t e r i n g t h e season.  
games  over  the  W  h  i  l  e  
n e x t  1 0  d a y s .  D i g g i n s  a n d  
Notre Dame will  B r u s z e w s k i  

take on Morehead State were starters for most of the Sunday before games against year in 2009-10, Novosel and No. 16 UCLA and No. 9 Mallory were strong contribu-Kentucky next weekend. That tors from the bench. Their doesn’t leave a lot of room for promotions don’t mean a lack fine-tuning before the Irish of depth for Notre Dame, face the ranked teams. though. 
“It’s hard because you want “I think every one of the to have the players have a lit-starting five will set the tone tle rest but the schedule’s for the whole team,” Mallory tight,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “It’s very diffi­cult because you want to watch film and work on things but you have to pre­pare for the next one.” 
The game is also the first of the season for New Hampshire, which fell 78-51 in an exhibition to Division-II Bentley Monday. 
“We’re definitely going to be able to outrun them in transition, and I think we’re just a little bit more disci­plined than they are,” senior captain Becca Bruszewski said. 
Bruszewski, a forward, and Mallory, a guard, took over as captains this season after all three of last year’s captains graduated . They join jun­ior guards Natalie Novosel and 
said. 
“We’ve got a couple fresh­men on the bench who are going to come in, we have [sophomore guard] Kaila Turner who’s been working her butt off in practice. It’s a whole team effort.” 
Against Michigan Tech, freshman guard Kayla McBride finished with 14 points and eight rebounds, while freshman forward Natalie Achonwa led the team with nine rebounds. McGraw said the two would be a sig­nificant part of the team. 
“I was counting on them to be able to contribute right away,” McGraw said. “We lost a lot from last year’s team and we needed someone to come in at both the guard spot and the post. From what I’ve seen so far, I’m really pleased with them.” 
Despite the lopsided score against Michigan Tech, Notre Dame had plenty to work on, including zone offense and man-to-man defense, McGraw said. 
“We felt there’s some things we could do fundamentally,” she said. 
That may be all the time they have to go through the basics for a while, which McGraw said is fine with her team. 
“From the players’ perspec­tive, generally there’s too much practice and not enough games,” McGraw said. “They ’re definitely ready to get to the games.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

WOMEN’S ROWING 

Fall season concludes withOhioSt.scrimmage 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will conclude their fall season Sunday against Big Ten competitors Michigan State, Ohio State and Indiana in a scrimmage hosted by the Buckeyes in Columbus. 
Coming off a scrimmage last weekend against the Hoosiers, Notre Dame will face a tougher lineup this weekend, according to Irish coach Martin Stone. 
“We’re scrimmaging against two teams who were in the NCAAs last year — Michigan State and Ohio State,” he said. “We’re excited to face some very, very fine pro ­grams.” 
The scrimmage format allows the Irish to test vari­
ous crew combinations in true racing format against tough competition without any of the results actually counting. Stone said his squad is eager to improve upon last week’s showing. 
“We’re excited. We’re look­ing to row a little faster than last weekend and move along,” Stone said. 
Stone also praised the efforts of his rowers in prac­tice this week as they pre­pared for the final event before the winter offseason. 
“I like the way people are rowing,” he said. “All week long the kids have been row­ing very nicely. It’s been going well.” 
Stone has another reason to be confident this week. Amanda Polk, a former rower of Stone’s and a 2008 Notre Dame graduate, won a gold medal with the United States eight at the 2010 World Championships on Lake Karapiro in New Zealand Saturday. 
Polk now has four interna­tional medals to her credit, including three golds. 
“It’s really great for the program to have a graduate as a world champion,” Stone said. “We’re all very proud of her.” 
Races for the current ver­sion of Irish women’s rowing begin Sunday at 12 p.m. in Columbus, Ohio. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
Irish to face Utah in the pool Friday in dual 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
Before Notre Dame battles Utah on the gridiron Saturday, the two schools will meet Friday at the Rolfs Aquatic Center for a showdown 
well as parent’s weekend. 
“Utah should be exceptional competition for us,” Maxwell said. “They have some very talented swimmers on their squad that are coming to race for a win. It should be a fun meet to compete in and our team 

in the pool. “U tah should be is excited to Notre Dame host them on 
exceptional 
will be looking our parents’ to rebound from com petition for us.” weekend.” a narrow defeat The team last weekend focused on team 
Samantha Maxwell 
against Purdue, unity this week 
Irish senior
in which the meet was decid­ed in the final relay. Senior leader Samantha Maxwell hopes the team can make an important mental adjustment coming off the loss to the Boilermakers for the Utah meet. 
“When we swam Purdue last week, they came at us from the very start,” Maxwell said. “Going into Utah we need to make sure that as a team we are engaged in every race, whether we are physi­cally swimming the race, or cheering on a teammate.” 
Maxwell and the Irish are looking forward to a chal­lenging meet against the Utes, which will be the final dual meet for Notre Dame as in practice. 
Maxwell 
stressed that 
team cohesion will help the Irish as a unit during meets. 
“Our focus this week has been on training hard and backing each other up in workouts,” Maxwell said. “If we are able to invest in each other’s training, we will be invested in each other’s swims at our meets. It is important for everybody to be involved in their teammate’s swims, helping them through challenges and celebrating their successes.” 
The meet begins Friday at 5 
p.m. at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 
Waldrum 
continued from page 24 

have been really good for us.” 
In order to encourage atten­dance, admission to Friday’s contest will be free for all Notre Dame students. Attendance for the matchup with the Huskies was just 416, and Waldrum said that home-field advantage was simply not a factor in the game. 
Waldrum did, however, men­tion that the early exit from the conference tournament did give the coaching staff an opportunity to evaluate per­sonnel decisions, hinting that a couple of lineup changes could be in effect for Friday’s tilt. 
“We looked at some of the personnel we were using,” Waldrum said. “While we were a little reluctant to make changes because we were win­ning, I think sometimes when you lose like we did, and then a few weeks where you haven’t been great, it makes it easier to make those changes.” 
No. 4 seeded Notre Dame (15-2-2, 9-0-2 Big East) has never faced New Mexico (12-2­5, 5-0-2 Mountain West), but the Irish have won their previ­ous two NCAA opening-round matchups against first-time opponents Toledo and IUPUI. 
“You don’t really know how [the Lobos] are going to come out, because it’s their first time in,” Waldrum said, “but I think you expect them to come out just flying and just happy to be here. One thing we’ve seen in watching game tape is they’re a very well organized team defensively.” 
Led by sophomore Kelli Cornell between the pipes, the Lobos have maintained a 0.39 goals against average and a .913 save percentage, giving them the second-ranked defense in the nation. 

NICOLE TOCZAUER/The Observer Senior goalkeeper Nikki Weiss goes up for a save during Notre Dame’s 2-0 loss to Connecticut Oct. 31. 
While the past two weeks has given the squad a chance to refocus and prepare for New Mexico, Notre Dame’s greatest advantage may be a healthier Courtney Barg. The junior midfielder missed the majority of the regular season due to injury, but showed signs of regaining her form in limit­ed minutes during the final stretch of the season. 
“She’s getting closer,” Waldrum said. “I think we were a little worried with the number of minutes she played on previous weekends, but I think she’s getting closer to being able to play 90 minutes in every game. She’s getting awful close to being where she needs to be for the rest of the way.” 
A victory on Friday sends the Irish into a second-round match against the winner of the contest between Illinois and Southern California earlier in the day. 
While North Carolina will be competing in the same region, Waldrum is confident in his team’s ability to compete and win on the road, especially in Chapel Hill, N.C. The Irish have won three of the last four contests at North Carolina, including a victory in the third-round of the NCAA Championships in 2007. 
“If you’re going to win a national championship, you have to beat them [the Tar Heels] somewhere along the way, whether it’s going to be in the third round or the champi­onship game,” Waldrum said. “I hate that cliché about one game at a time, but really at this time of the year you better just focus on that next game or you could be in trouble.” 
The Irish take the field Friday at 7:30 p.m. at Alumni Stadium. Sunday’s second-round matchup will be at 1 p.m. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 





Brey 
continued from page 24 

at one level and they proba­bly should be because they’ve been in our program for three or four years, and they’ve all been in college four or five years and certainly that’s a great advantage. 
“I think the first thing is Scott Martin has learned to play well with them and they’ve learned to bring Scott Martin along because they know how much we need him,” Brey continued. “That was the first order of busi­ness as we got into practice 
— getting him comfortable, getting him confident.” 
The Irish are also looking for freshman guard Eric Atkins to contribute while running Notre Dame’s offen­sive attack. 
“I’m really thrilled with where [Atkins is] at — he’s done everything we’ve asked him to do,” Brey said. 
Georgia Southern, who plays in the aptly named Southern Conference, has never faced Notre Dame, but the Irish are 19-1 all-time against Southern Conference foes. The team’s only confer­ence loss was a 54-51 loss to Davidson in the 1982-83 sea­son. 
The Eagles won their lone exhibition game 59-55 against Fort Valley State last Friday. In that game, they started three freshmen along top with junior Ben Drayton III and senior Rory Spencer, Georgia Southern’s second and third ranked returning scorers. Top scorer Willie Hanson didn’t play in the con­test. 
On Sunday, Notre Dame will face Liberty for their second matchup in as many years, with the Irish winning 91-72 last season. The Flames return a young squad that features just five upperclass­men. Their top returning player is junior captain Jesse Sanders, who started all 31 games for the Flames a year ago, and sophomore guard Evan Gordon, Liberty’s top returning scorer with 12 points per game and brother of former Indiana standout Eric Gordon. 

The Irish will tipoff against the Eagles at 8:30 p.m. Friday and Sunday at 2 p.m. against Liberty at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 


table,” Jackson said. “I think them to play very good and currently rank first and second if you make bad plays with the Michigan has got the best very fast hockey,” Ridderwall at the top of the CCHA, and puck, they’re going to burn 
Jackson 
continued from page 24 
play to a higher level. 
“It’s always a challenge play­ing at Yost, because it is an intimidating place,” he said. “I’ve always thought our team relished playing there.” 
More importantly, however, will be the Wolverine (5-2-3, 4­1-1-0 CCHA) on-ice challenge, as Michigan is one of the deep­est, most well-rounded teams the Irish will face all season. 
“Obviously the crowd’s against you, but you have to be more concerned about the tal­ent Michigan brings to the 



Sutton 
continued from page 24 
The No. 11 Irish (10-4-4, 6­2-1 Big East) are seeded No. 2 in the Blue Division of the tournament, just behind the undefeated No. 1 Cardinals (15-0-2, 9-0), who are at the top of the conference rank­ings. 
“Playing a team like Louisville could do good things for our confidence and do good things going down the stretch,” Sutton said. “So going through the whole sea­son winning the Big East Tournament would mean a lot to us going into the national tournament.” 
This is the fourth year in a row that the Irish make a semifinal appearance in the conference tournament, and their eighth trip overall to the semifinals. 
Notre Dame and Louisville have played each other for the last two years in the confer­ence semifinals. Last year, the Irish won 4-3 on penalty kicks, and in 2008 the Irish won 1-0. 
The Cardinals and the Irish met once earlier in the season in Louisville, Ky., where the Irish fell 2-0. Though the teams were tied 0-0 in the first half, Louisville notched both of their goals in the sec­ond half to win the game. 
“The game has kind of been built up since we played Louisville last,” Sutton said. “They took it to us a little bit. We’ve been looking forward to this game to get our second chance that them. Hopefully we take advantage of it.” 
Though Louisville will be a challenging competitor, the Cardinals have the task of depth up front, on the back said. “We try to practice at a end they’re a very fast pace, great defensive and that’s the team.” “We want to go at main thing we’re 

The Wolverines doing to pre­
them. We don’t 
play a fast-paced, pare.” 
want to sit back.” 
up-tempo game Jackson wants that has given his team to Notre Dame some counter speed 
Jeff Jackson 
problems earlier with speed. 
Irish coach
this season. The “We want to go Irish got off to at them. We don’t poor starts want to sit back,” against similar attacking he said. “I think our team is a philosophies from Boston little more capable of playing College and Boston University that up-tempo style against a earlier this year. team like that than maybe 
“I know they’re very skilled we’ve been in the past.” and very fast. I just expect The Irish and Wolverines though it’s early in the season, the game could have major implications later on during what is shaping up to be a wide-open season. 
“In the CCHA it seems like anyone can beat anyone,” Ridderwall said. “All the points are important, especially against the teams that are contending for the top four spots.” 
The key for the Irish will be limiting costly mistakes that turn into odd-man situations. 
“We’re going to have to play extremely well to have any type of success,” Jackson said. “They thrive on transition and you, so you have to be really responsive and intelligent, making sure that you minimize the number of turnovers that you make.” 
The Irish will be cognizant of the meaning of this weekend’s series. 
“It’s always different, you know, Notre Dame and Michigan — in any sport,” Ridderwall said. 
Notre Dame and Michigan clash Friday and Saturday in Ann Arbor at 7:35 p.m each night. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
breaking Notre Dame’s cur­rent five-game win streak. 
If the Irish win, they will take on the either No. 1-seed­ed Cincinnati or No. 5-seeded Providence. 
The match will be aired live on CBS College Sports at 7:30 p.m. 
“We had our training session today. Everyone practiced. Everyone was looking great. It’s all up to us now,” Sutton said. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 


CROSSWORD 
42Green 44Reply to a pushy person 45Think worthy of
doing 46Change, at times 47Turned down 48What big
projects are usually done in 49Tough row to hoe? 
Down 
1 One way to go to a party 2 Lead-in to bath or powder 3 Join 4 Massive, in Marne 
5 Country standard that begins “Love is a burning thing” 
6 Quail flock 7 Words of 
clarification 8 Strip teaser? 9 Toughened 
10Seemingly 11 Workers may be drawn to them 13What can give 
you a heads-up? 14Big shot 16Some pilgrims 21Lake Chapala's 
state 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  
12  13  14  
15  16  17  
18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  
25  26  
27  28  29  30  
31  32  
33  34  35  36  
37  38  39  
40  41  42  43  
44  45  
46  47  
48  49  

Puzzle by Brendan Emmett Quigley 
24Ordered 30Toughened programming 31Big name in
26Bleached 

home theaters 27Like an owl's eyes 34___ Energy (bignatural gas 
28Set of cursive 
utility)
Japanesesymbols 

35Elegantly 29 Fix, as a bow groomed 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

WILL SHORTZ 
36It's worth a couple of bucksin Canada 
38Acoustics measures 
39Soft, now 

41His vet is Liz Wilson 
43Rolls out for sale at a nursery 

Across 
1 Use a joystick 6 Biblical figurewho received the curse of Ham 12Somewhat astringent, as wine 14What a yo-yomight make 15City where A.A. was founded 17Like collision 
avoidance systems 
18“Driving MissDaisy” setting 
19Conservative pundit with a daily morningradio show 
20Popular barsince 1946 
22“I never ___ moor”: EmilyDickinson 
23 Delivery that may floor you 
24 One doing laundry, often 
25 Wrap in sheets 
26 They're on the books 
27 The great Pretender? 
31 Things to come to grips with? 

32 Sound made while working on a mop 
33 Basketball shooting game 
34 Maximally intense 
37 “Alice ___ It Again” (Noel Coward song) 
38 Pantry 

40 What a compact often lacks 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

S  S  T  H  A  N  T  H  E  F  A  R  S  
I  L  O  V  E  L  A  H  I  B  A  C  H  I  
D  E  V  I  C  E  S  R  E  B  A  T  E  D  
E  W  A  L  K  S  A  L  E  E  O  E  
S  H  E  L  H  E  A  V  Y  
S  E  R  T  A  S  T  A  T  E  S  
S  E  C  T  O  H  S  K  E  N  O  B  I  
I  R  R  H  E  X  A  G  O  N  G  O  D  
D  O  O  W  O  P  A  P  U  M  A  N  E  
E  S  W  I  P  E  P  A  T  T  I  
T  I  R  E  S  I  D  D  O  
S  K  A  M  O  U  N  T  A  I  N  S  
I  N  S  P  I  R  E  S  A  L  I  E  R  I  
D  E  T  E  N  T  E  E  M  E  R  G  E  D  
E  W  I  N  D  E  R  D  E  S  O  D  E  

PLEASANDVILLE 

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 


JEFF KNUREK
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek Unscramble these four Jumbles,one letter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 

VILIC  

 
 
 
 
 

©2010 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
SYKAH  

 
 
 
 
 

CRAFTO  

 
 
 
 
 
 

NEW BIBLE Jumble Books Go To: http://www.tyndale.com/jumble/ 
BAFLLE  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Print your answer here: 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: GAVEL FUNNY POPLIN HEIFER Yesterday’s 
Answer: When the comedian gained weight, he tried to — LAUGH IT OFF 

 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Friday, November 12, 2010 page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Two quarterback recruits to visit campus this weekend 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
One game removed from losing its starting quarterback for the season, Notre Dame now has two four-star quarterback recruits vis­iting for the weekend. 
North Carolina verbal commit­ment Everett Golson announced his plans to visit earlier in the sea­son, but Florida native Jacoby Brissett only announced his plans Thursday, after this week’s “Irish Insider” had gone to print. 
“[Brisset] is another four-star, big-time quarterback,” said Mike Frank, an Irish recruiting analyst who runs the ESPN-affiliated irish­sportsdailycom. “He can run, but he also comes from more of a pro-style offense in high school. 
“He just came back from watch­ing the LSU vs. Alabama game, and has an LSU offer, so this is a big-time player,” Frank said. “I think he just wants to check [Notre Dame] out. He is a good student, and let’s be honest, this is a very good opportunity for a quarter­back. With [Irish junior quarter­back] Dayne [Crist] out, a quarter­back could come in and have a chance to play right away, and every quarterback is looking for that opportunity.” 
Joining the quarterbacks in visit­ing this weekend is an offensive tackle who could someday be pro­tecting them. Frank said Jay Whitmire could fit in well with the type of recruiting class Irish coach Brian Kelly and his staff are put­ting together. 
“He’s a guy who’s a pretty big kid and plays physical at the point of attack,” Frank said. “Notre Dame has kind of struggled in the run game, so they need to get that nasty disposition on the offensive line, and I think that is what they see in Whitmire.” 
Whitmire, Golson and Brissett could join a recruiting class that includes numerous four-star recruits such as running back Justice Hayes and defensive end Stephon Tuitt. 
“There are a lot of fantastic play-
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Road to the Cup 
Irish host New Mexico in NCAA frst round 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
While the aftermath of a loss can follow a team into its next matchup, the Irish take the pitch on Friday with a simple motivating factor — one more loss and the season is over. Notre Dame will take on New Mexico in the first round of the NCAA Championships, the first time the team has laced up its cleats since a 2-0 loss to Connecticut in the quarterfinals of the Big East Championships on Oct. 31. 
“The two weeks have been really good — probably our two best weeks of training,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. “I’ve never been a big believer in losing is a good thing. I would rather have won and have gone on and won the con­ference tournament. But since we didn’t, I think the two weeks 
see WALDRUM/page 20 


MEN’S SOCCER 
Conference semifinals loom large 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will play Friday in the Big East Championship Semifinal game against the top team in the country, the Louisville Cardinals, at Red Bull Arena in Harrison, N.J., home of the New York Red Bulls. A win would send the Irish to the conference finals for the 14th time in program history. 
“Tomorrow’s game is going to be huge, the biggest game of our season so far,” junior midfielder Chris Sutton said. “Louisville is a team we want to play and we want to beat. Louisville has been growing as a program, they’re getting better everyday. We’ll be ready to play, they’ll be ready to play. It’ll be one of the most exiting games in the country.” 
see SUTTON/page 22 
HOCKEY 

Notre Dame to face Michigan 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
No. 11 Notre Dame renews its oldest hockey rivalry this weekend when it travels to Ann Arbor to take on CCHA rival No. 8/9 Michigan. 
The trip will take the Irish (6-2-1/4-1-1-1 CCHA) to one of college hockey’s most inhos­pitable venues, Yost Arena. 
“The fans are right over you, so it’s a great experience,” Irish senior alternate captain Calle Ridderwall said. “You know what you’re getting yourself into. I think it’s very motivating going into Yost.” 
Notre Dame coach Jeff Jackson agreed with Ridderwall, and said the hos­tile atmosphere helps his team 
see JACKSON/page 22 


ers in this class,” Frank said. “But more importantly, what exists in this class that I don’t think has pre­viously, it is a class full of tough kids, that are very physical and can run. I think the one thing Brian Kelly is really trying to fix is the tough mentality you need to have to win games at this level. From that standpoint, he couldn’t do a better job of getting that kind of player who will turn this around.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Georgia Southern first up in regular season 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame kicks off its regular season against Georgia Southern Friday in its first Division I game of the post-Harangody era. 
Although the Irish will be without one of the greatest players in program history, Irish coach Mike Brey knows that his team is up to the challenge of playing without Harangody. 
“One of my themes for this group has been, ‘We did it for six games in 2009-10 without Luke, now can we do it for six months?’” Brey said before the season to und.com. “I am excited and feel good about what this group can accomplish this year.” 
In order for the Irish to be successful this season, they will look to a number of newcomers to fill in produc­tion voids left by the depar­tures of Harangody and for­mer point guard Tory Jackson. Entering the sea­son, Brey said getting senior guard Scott Martin up to speed with Notre Dame’s returning starters was a top priority. 
“Our five guys that start are pretty good together,” Brey said. “They’re kind of 
see BREY/page 21 


Graphic Illustration by Blair Chemidlin 

COMMENTARY 

A chance to make a Senior Day count 
When these seniors signed their letters of intent to play for Notre Dame in February 2007, the Irish were coming off back-to-back BCS bowl appearances and had gone 19-6 over the past two seasons. 
Four seasons later, it seems that nothing has gone according to plan. 
Despite their strug­gles on the field, 15 of those 18 seniors that signed on 3 ½ years ago are still on the Irish roster today. Going through the worst season in Notre Dame history and a tumultuous coaching change would have made it easy for players to transfer elsewhere. Frankly, who could have blamed them? 
Transfers are usually a staple of coaching changes and, espe­cially given the poor perform­ance on the field it would have been easy for players to look at other schools. Two players transferred when Brian Kelly took over 


After everything this
for Charlie lines on what Weis as Irish class has been through, is supposed to coach — one be the most
though, a win over a 
for reasons emotional
ranked team is
unrelated to game on the football. While something to celebrate, schedule. Kelly himself Maybe it will
regardless of the logo on
probably help that
its helmet.
played some role in that high retention rate, this sen­ior class banded together through the adversity. That atti­tude permeated throughout the rest of the team and, hopefully, laid the foundation for stability and success down the road. 
This senior class proves the axiom on which Notre Dame most prides itself — that it’s dif­ferent from all other football programs. When things aren’t going well on the field, there’s somewhere else to turn here. If football were all that mattered, most of these players would have hit the road years ago. More importantly, they would-n’t reflect glowingly when asked about their experience at Notre Dame. Talking to players over the past week, the most common theme is how they’re going to miss this place when they leave. 
“[What made Notre Dame special] was just the things [it] offered to better myself as a human being, better myself as a student, to challenge myself,” senior running back Robert Hughes said. 
Even though these past four years haven’t been what any of us — players, students and fans included — had hoped for, there’s still the possibility to end it on the highest note possi­ble. It would be poetic, almost, if these seniors earned their first win over a ranked team on Senior Day, a day that has recently become an embodi­ment of Notre Dame’s strug­gles. 
No, I don’t think it’s likely that the Irish will beat Utah on Saturday, but both teams will still have to take the field for 60 minutes, and — if we have learned anything over the past four years — anything can hap­pen. If the Irish do manage to pull off the upset Saturday, it would become a vindication for everything this class has worked for over the past four years and lay the groundwork for future victories, a common theme in recent interviews with both coaches and seniors alike. 
As important as the future is, though, it’s even more essential that these seniors take owner­ship of their Senior Day Saturday. The most disappoint­ing part of previous Senior Days wasn’t even the losses to mediocre Big East teams, but 
the lackluster 
demeanor on 
the Irish side-
Notre Dame 
will be playing 
a top-25 team, 
but these sen­iors, and the team as a whole, need to play like Senior Day means something to them. If they can harness that emotion, maybe, just maybe, this class will finally experience an elu­sive “Notre Dame moment.” 
No, a win over Utah wouldn’t be the same as beating a top-ranked USC team, but you can only play the games in front of you. After everything this class has been through, though, a win over a ranked team is something to celebrate, regard­less of the logo on its helmet. 
The Class of 2011 won’t win a national championship at Notre Dame. The seniors won’t even graduate with anything close to a winning record, but that doesn’t mean they can’t go out with a bang. 
It’s hard to say they don’t deserve it. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Decommitments open up slots 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 

After two losses on the field, Irish coach Brian Kelly and his staff suffered three more losses in their first attempt at a full recruiting class while at Notre Dame. 
Three four-star recruits, offensive tackle Jordan Prestwood, linebacker Clay Burton and defensive end Aaron Lynch, opted out of their verbal commitments to the Irish in the past two weeks. 
“I think there are a lot of things players are looking for when they make that commit­ment,” said Mike Frank, an Irish recruiting analyst who runs the ESPN-affiliated site irishsportsdaily.com. “One is a good education, and anoth­er is they want to play for a big-time football program that gives you a chance to play for a national champi­onship. And obviously, third, like any college student you want to have fun. I think for Notre Dame to get to that point, they are going to have to start winning some games.” 
While Frank said the string of bad luck Kelly and the Irish have undergone is unlike any he has ever seen — from injuries to fake field goals to more injuries — he thinks recruits are failing to see the effects of that ill fortune. 
“Kids are looking at it and saying that ‘I want to go to a program that can win a national championship,’” he said. “They just aren’t looking at the big picture and seeing why Notre Dame is losing.” 
The decommitments from the three heralded recruits, all given a four-star ranking by ESPN’s recruiting analysts, likely eliminates any chance of them coming to Notre Dame, Frank said. 
“Once these guys decide to take visits, almost always the original school is out,” he said. “All three of them have confirmed to us that Notre Dame is out of the running.” 
The decommitments also opened up three more slots for other recruits. Fittingly, three recruits, two of which are four-star recruits as well, will visit campus this week­end and take in the Utah game from the sidelines. 
Defensive end Brennan Scarlett, an Oregon native, could fill the spot left by Lynch. Scarlett, heavily recruited by most of the schools in the Pac 10, has long shown an interest in Notre Dame, Frank said. 
“He’s a big-time player,” Frank said. “He’s been inter­ested in Notre Dame for quite some time, and I think Notre Dame has a real good shot at him too. It’s his first time out here, and we’ll have to see what he thinks, but he is the kind of kid who I think will fit in well with the type of per­sonalities already on the team.” 
Four-star quarterback, and North Carolina committee, Everett Golson will also be in town over the weekend. With the recent season-ending injury to Irish junior quarter­back Dayne Crist, Golson could take advantage of an uncertain Notre Dame quar­terback situation, Frank said. 
“With the situation with Dayne being out, and they aren’t exactly sure if he’ll be back or not for the spring, this is an ideal situation for a quarterback,” Frank said. “And [Golson] wants to enroll early, so he would be here for spring football. 
“The thing that Golson brings that a Tommy Rees doesn’t, is that Golson is a tremendous athlete. He can run, and that has been one of the biggest problems of Notre Dame’s offense this year 
— you have to have a quar­terback that can run.” 
Also visiting campus this weekend are three-star recruit, and offensive line­man, Jay Whitmire and four-star recruit, and Irish com­mittee, offensive lineman Matt Hegarty. 
“[Hegarty] is obviously huge to this class. His talent is immense,” Frank said. “He is a perfect left tackle with a nasty disposition … I person­ally think he is one of the top two or three players in this class.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com. 
E-mail Mike at mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 



IAN WILLIAMS 

Williams leads D-line until suffering MCL sprain 
By SAM WERNER 
Sports Writer 
Editor’s note: This article first appeared in the Sept. 24 edition of The Observer. 
Ask any football coach what the most important position is in a 3-4 defense is, and the response is almost unanimous. 
No matter how talented the other players are, a defense will likely struggle without an effective nose guard to clog the middle of the line. 
For the Irish, that responsi­bility falls on senior Ian Williams. 
“We’ve given him an opportu­nity to play something that he’s good at,” defensive line coach Mike Elston said. “He’s on the center, whipping him. He’s using really good technique. He’s clued into indicators. He’s just doing a really nice job, and it’s important to him.” 
New system, new position 
Williams entered Notre Dame out of Altamonte Springs, Fla., in 2007 as one of ESPN’s top 150 high school players. Recruited to play nose tackle in then-defensive coordinator Corwin Brown’s 3-4 system, Williams played in all 12 games his freshman year, starting two. He totaled 45 tackles on the year and was named a Freshman All-American. 
Since that first year, though, the Irish defense has switched defensive coordinators twice, and moved to defensive coordi­nator Jon Tenuta’s 4-3 scheme in 2009. The switch meant that Williams had to move to defen­sive tackle, and away from his natural position. 
When new Irish coach Brian Kelly hired defensive coordina­tor Bob Diaco this off-season, it meant that Notre Dame was switching back to the 3-4, and Williams was moving back to the middle. 
While much has been made about the schematic changes, Williams said he was more excited about the new attitude the coaching staff brought. 
“I knew a little bit about them, just watching Cincinnati and some of their games last year. I kind of read up on Coach Kelly, Coach Diaco, Coach Elston when they got hired,” Williams said. “I was really excited for the opportu­nity to have a new coaching staff and just try something new, start fresh.” 
Williams said the technical changes on the Notre Dame defense weren’t as big a deal to him. 
“It doesn’t make that much of a difference to me,” he said. “I’ll play what I need to play. Defense is defense. I know I’ve said that plen­ty of times, but Heggie, who lives about a half-hour away in Florida, over to his house to show Heggie some workouts. 
“I had him come down where I lived and just worked on some things this summer,” Williams said. “He just came down, I showed him some things to work on, and he just really worked on them by him­self.” 
Williams added that he mod­eled his leadership after the advice he got from seniors dur­ing his freshman year. 
“I mean when I was a fresh­man, I had Trevor Laws, Justin Brown and [Pat] Kuntz who were the older guys,” he said. 


I’m just trying  “I’m the old guy in the  “They showed  
to go out there and have fun on every play.” In addition to  group now. So I just feel like I have to be a role model for the younger  me how to play.” The new-found leader- 
Diaco, also  Kelly hired  guys.”  ship role became official  
strength and c o n d i t i o n i n g  Ian Williams  a g a i n s t Michigan State  
coach  Paul  senior defensive tackle  on  Sept.  18,  
Longo,  who  when Williams  
Williams said  was  named  a  

has been invaluable to his game-day captain, along with development. junior tight end Kyle Rudolph. 
“It’s all paying off,” Williams Williams said he was caught a said before Notre Dame met bit off guard when Kelly called Stanford on Sept. 25. “I mean, his name out at the Friday we’re 1-2 right now, but I think team meeting, but knew that it’s paying off and we’re getting someone back home would be better.” very happy. 
“I was very surprised and I Old man on the line was very thankful,” he said. 
In addition to Williams’ “My mom’s been asking for responsibilities on the field, four years, ‘Ian when are you he’s also the senior man on the going to be a captain?’ ‘Ian Irish defensive line this season. when are you going to be a 
“I’m the old guy in the group captain?’ So I talked to her on now,” Williams said. “So I just Saturday and said, ‘Mom, I’m a feel like I have to be a role captain,’ so she was really model for the younger guys.” proud of me.” 
Elston said that Williams has been taking charge by his atti-‘Clog the middle’ tude in practice, as well. Against the Spartans, Kelly 
“He’s been a leader, he’s been singled out Williams for his working hard,” Elston said. outstanding play. “Not a day goes by that I think “Yeah, he’s a man,” Kelly he’s wasting his time, wasting said. “I mean, he was dominant our time. He’s been doing a for us. He controlled the line of nice job. He’s locked in and scrimmage from his position. having fun too.” Now, he’s got to have help at 
Williams said that over the certain areas, but he was off-season, he had freshman clearly a dominating player for defensive lineman Bruce us on the defensive side of the ball.” 
While Kelly may have been pleased, Williams said he still has plenty to improve. 
“I personally think I didn’t play that good, so I’ve still got a lot of work to do,” Williams said. “I really appreciate him calling me out and giving me a little pub, but I just feel person­ally that I still have a lot of things to work on.” 
While the generic job description of a nose guard in a 3-4 defense is to “clog the mid­dle,” Williams said it was more specific than that. 
“[My job is to] make sure the ball bounces outside,” he said. “Make sure the ball doesn’t come in any of my gaps.” 
Once it gets out there, Williams relies on junior defen­sive ends Kapron Lewis-Moore and Ethan Johnson to make plays. He called Lewis-Moore and Johnson “two of [his] best friends.” 
“It helps with chemistry, talk­ing on the field,” Williams said. “We can joke around about lit­tle things, keep everything level on the field.” 
Despite Williams’ difficult job description, he didn’t miss a game for more than three sea­sons, until suffering a season-ending MCL sprain against Navy on Oct. 23. 
Due to that injury, only line­backer Kerry Neal played in every game of the last four years. 
“Me and Kerry, we’ve worked hard since we got here as freshmen,” Williams said. “We made a pact before we got here that we would just try and make plays in every game that we play in.” 
One aspect of the game that is not part of Williams’ job description is pass defense, but in two of Notre Dame’s last five wins — this year against Purdue and last year against Washington State — Williams has recorded interceptions. 
“It’s crazy because D-linemen never get interceptions so it’s exciting I got two,” he said. 
Against Purdue, Williams caught the ball after senior cornerback Gary Gray tipped it to him. 
Williams said he owes Gray a night out to dinner for helping him get the pick. 
Williams is currently tied for the team lead with one inter­ception, and has his sights set on more. 
“I’m trying to go for more,” Williams said jokingly. “I’m try­ing to lead the team.” 
Notre Dame’s defense cur­rently ranks 79th in the coun­try in run defense, but throughout the season Kelly said he’s seen improvement in the defense. 
“Being a defensive player, you don’t want the opposing offense to get any points, gain any yards or anything like that,” Williams said. “So, I mean, that’s a negative right there. But I can see a differ­ence in us from last year.” 
Elston said that while Williams’ strong play didn’t surprise him, he foresaw even more improvement during his senior year. 
“I expected him to play the way he is playing right now, so it is not really a shock,” Elston said before the Stanford game. “He is not yet, but he can be a dominant, dominant nose guard.” 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 


BARRY GALLUP, JR. 

Gallup relishes both returning a kick and playing the piano 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
A concert pianist sits alone on stage, showcasing his skills for an attentive audience. 
Fifth-year Barry Gallup, Jr. played piano from kindergarten to high school. At Notre Dame, he turned to a different medi­um: returning kicks. 
“All eyes are on you in the Stadium. You’re pretty much alone back there when they kick the ball to you,” Gallup said. “It’s something I felt real com­fortable doing.” 
After missing the last four games of his junior season with an ankle injury, Gallup returned to the field in 2009 against Michigan. He returned two kicks for 77 yards, including a third-quarter return for 52 yards. 
“It was the culmination of all my hard work getting back and all the people that supported me, and my family and all my friends staying positive,” he said. “I didn’t know if I was ever going to play again, because I had a pretty bad ankle injury. 
“That was a job I didn’t want to give up.” 
In nine returns in 2009, Gallup totaled 163 yards. He competed for the job again this season, but fell on the depth chart. 
“All the guys give me a hard time, they say the fifth-years are old, so maybe I’m a step slow from what I used to be,” he said. 
However, he has still played a significant role on special teams this year, and has made three tackles on the season, including one for loss. 
“A lot of people said I proba­bly hadn’t made a tackle since high school, but I don’t think I even made too many tackles in high school,” said Gallup, who is listed at 5-foot-11 and 190 pounds. 
After the 2009 season, Gallup did not know whether he would come back for a fifth year. When the coaches offered, Gallup answered quickly. 
“It wasn’t really a decision for me. It wasn’t a predicament,” he said. “The opportunity to play at Notre Dame one more time, I didn’t have any indecision on my part. Just to be around the guys and to have the opportuni­ty to run out of the tunnel, and to play another season was something I was looking for.” 
Because he didn’t know his situation, last season’s Senior Day loss to Connecticut could have been Gallup’s last game. However, he said the seniors are determined to make this year different. 
“I think the main difference this year is we want to finish with a win,” he said. “It’s not the same feeling when you lose and your family’s on the field after the game and you give them a fake smile. It’s just not the same.” 
The fifth year gave Gallup a chance to explore his interests outside of football, as well. He graduated with a degree in finance after just three years, and has spent the last two years taking graduate-level classes in other subjects that interest him 
— including piano. 
“I don’t think many of my teammates know that about me,” he said. “You don’t see a lot of football players and pianists walking around. … I kind of got away from it with football and my finance classes, but I’ve been able to get back into it.” 


However, he might not have time much longer. Gallup accepted a job with CitiGroup, an investment banking firm in New York City, in October. 
The job came after many applications and interviews, Gallup said. His academic record probably helped him out, too; he was recently named to ESPN’s academic all-district thanks to his studies in graduate classes. 
“That’s something my mom was proud of,” he said. “She was happy to hear that. I’ve got to keep my mom happy. She’s the best.” 
In fact, part of the deal for Gallup to attend Notre Dame, which is far from his home in Wellesley, Mass., was that his mom would attend every one of his games. 
“I’m really close with my fami­ly. My mom, my dad, my sister. They’re all my best friends,” Gallup said. “My mom’s actually never missed one of my games, all five years. She comes to every game. … I’m forever grateful to her for everything she’s done for me. And my dad, he’s my biggest supporter. And my sister, she’s my best friend.” 
After five tumultuous years at Notre Dame, Gallup said he is ready to face the real world. 
“It’s been crazy all the stuff that’s happened,” he said. “I think my experiences here have prepared me for life after foot­ball and everything I’ll have to go through.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
BOBBY BURGER 

Burger leaves starting spot at Dayton for ND 
By CHRIS MASOUD Sports Writer  end into a fullback and a tight end. Burger excelled in his new position on the scout team, earn- get the flow of the game down.’” But after winning the toss, Nevada deferred the return.  
ing a scholarship before the start  “I get down in my stance, and  
Dayton scout team defensive  of the regular season.  it’s kickoff return,” Burger said.  
player of the year as a redshirt  “I’m proud of that fact, the  “All of a sudden, I’ll never forget,  
freshman in 2006, a team-high  whole  year  — earning  your  I  started  smiling  and  I  told  
eight sacks the following year,  respect as a football player, and I  myself, ‘Let’s just do this. This is  
and a Division I FCS Mid Major  think I did that through scout  awesome. This is cool. This is  
National Football Championship  team. I won scout team player of  what you worked so hard for.’”  
in 2007  — that would be at the  the week several times, and it  Burger’s biggest play for the  
top of senior Bobby Burger’s col- was just a matter of getting my  Irish came later in the season in a  
lege football resume.  respect that first year.”  24-21 victory against Purdue on  
So why drop a starting spot at a  While Burger’s role changed  Sept. 26. Burger caught a pass  
respected collegiate program and  from starter to scout team player,  and broke a tackle for a nine- 
transfer to Notre Dame?  the senior has embraced his role  yard gain, good enough for an  
“It’s been a lifelong dream ever  as  working  to  improve  the  Irish first down on a critical  
since I was a little kid,” Burger  starters on the defense while  third-and-long situation in the  
said. “When I was at Dayton, I  ensuring that the practice offense  third quarter.  
gave everything I had to the  mimics the style of each week’s  While the senior has relished  
Dayton Flyers. But my grades  opposition.  his moments as a member of the  
were finally good enough, and  “To see the [opposing] offense  football program, he said he has  
academically I transferred and  run the same plays you ran dur­ been especially grateful for his  
was accepted. It’s been a dream  SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer  ing the week and seeing the  experiences with professors and  
come true.” Senior tight end Bobby Burger b egan his career at Dayton before  defense stop them  — that’s defi­ friends off the field. For Burger,  
Burger’s dream developed at a  transferring to Notre Dame once h is grades were high enough.  nitely satisfying knowing that you  just attending Notre Dame is a  
young age, when he came to  helped the defense by doing your  dream fulfilled.  
South Bend to watch football  Burger’s transfer from Dayton  a.m. workouts. Just a half-an­ part,” he said.  “While Dayton was just a won- 
games  with  his  father  Bob  stemmed from putting in the  hour, nonstop, no-water, throw  In addition to his scout team  derful experience, there’s only  
Burger, an offensive guard for the  work in the classroom. But once  up a couple times, that’s okay  role, Burger made 183 appear- one Notre Dame,” Burger said.  
Irish from 1977-80. While his  accepted at Notre Dame, Burger  workouts. At practice, instead of  ances on special teams for the  “When you’re young, running  
father played on the national  knew he could earn a spot on the  practicing, we did conditioning  Irish in 2009, including his first  around South Quad throwing a  
championship team of 1977,  team  as  a  walk-on.  After  a  drills because we ‘weren’t ready  play in Notre Dame Stadium.  football,  looking  up  at  the  
Burger has never been pressured  demanding workout process,  to play yet.’”  Burger started on kickoff return  Stadium and seeing all those guys  
to follow in his footsteps.  Burger and his fellow walk-ons  After emerging as a member of  for the first game of the 2009  run out there. Sometimes if you  
“He really doesn’t say any- forged a relationship known as  the team, Burger focused his  season against Nevada.  put your mind to a goal, even  
thing,” Burger said. “He’s been so  the  WOPU  — the  Walk-On  attentions on showcasing his  “I’m thinking to myself, ‘Okay,  your wildest dreams can come  
supportive of me throughout the  Players Union.  skills that brought a national title  this is the first time I ever ran out  true if you really work hard at it.”  
whole entire walk-on process,  “We joined the team, and we  to Dayton  — on the other side of  of the tunnel, first time I ever put  
earning a scholarship, playing  — had three days a week, while  the ball. The coaching staff con- pads on, game jersey on. Just let  Contact Chris Masoud at  
he’s just been very supportive.”  we’re having practice, of 5:30  verted Burger from a defensive  this one be kickoff so I can kind of  cmasoud@nd.edu  

ROBERT HUGHES 

Moments of glory break through years of strife 
and pushed the pile and we 
By SAM WERNER 
were just fighting our way for 
Sports Writer 
that goal.” 
Coming to Notre Dame out of 

Before Notre Dame Stadium Chicago’s Hubbard High public address announcer School in the fall of 2007, Mike Collins even announces Hughes made an immediate the play, everyone in the push for playing time. He building knows who just got made special teams appear-the carry. No, the student sec-ances in the first three games tion isn’t booing. They’re of his Irish career, and screaming “Huuuuuuughes!” received his first carries in the 
Senior running back Robert fourth. Against Michigan Hughes has become familiar State, he ran the ball six with that sound from the times, mostly in short-yardage northwest corner of the situations, for 33 yards and Stadium. scored his first touchdown. 
“[The cheer] means a lot,” Just over a month later, Hughes said. “When I hear it, though, tragedy struck. On it just kind of Oct. 30, 2007, gives me that Hughes’ broth-extra motiva-er was shot 
“The whole Notre Dame 
tion to say, and killed in ‘Hey, the fans community was Chicago. are loving this, excellent in a hard time Despite the so keep doing tremendous 
— my teammates
it and keep emotional tur­
especially. ... A lot of
going.’ So moil, Hughes when I hear it, things were going on, said the tight it just makes connections he 
but my teammates were
me want to run forged at 
there to pick me up and
harder and Notre Dame give that much give me a little bit of were invalu-until he got it in the end more.” able through-zone.” 
encouragement and
Perhaps the out the griev-“He gave me the opportuni­
peace of mind.” 
one play that ing process. ty, and like any other chance, I e x e m p l i f i e s “The whole wanted to score touchdowns Hughes’ extra Robert Hughes Notre Dame and help the team win. I got effort came community the ball and was able to get in 
senior running back 
last season was excellent there,” Hughes said. “I didn’t a g a i n s t in ahard time play the rest of the game Washington . — my team-because I was a little too emo-With 1:20 left on the clock, the mates especially,” he said. tional on the sideline, but it Irish scored a touchdown to go “When hard times come, you definitely felt great. That defi­ahead 28-27. Hughes plowed know, a lot of things go nitely would tie as one of my up the middle on the two-point through people’s heads, espe-greatest moments [at Notre conversion attempt and was cially after the tragic loss of Dame].” stuffed at the line of scrim-my brother. A lot of things Later in the season, Hughes mage. But then, the pile just were going on, but my team-would see the field even more, started moving slowly towards mates were there to pick me and make some history in the the goal line. The mass of up and give me a little bit of process. In the final two players creeped in the direc-encouragement and peace of games of the 2007 campaign tion of the goal line until the mind.” against Duke and Stanford, he ball crossed the plane to give In that weekend’s game carried the ball 35 times for Notre Dame a key 30-27 lead. against Navy, the Irish drove 246 yards and two touch ­
“I wanted to make sure that the ball down to the downs, becoming the first my brothers had a good time Midshipmen’s 3-yard line on Irish freshman to rush for 100 partying in the end zone, so their opening drive. Hughes yards in back-to-back games once I got stopped initially I came in and powered the ball since Allen Pinkett in 1982. was just like, ‘Don’t give in. into the end zone to put the In his sophomore season, You’re a fighter, so fight,’” Irish on the board. After the Hughes more than doubled his Hughes said. “Guys jumped on game, then-Irish coach Charlie rushing attempts from his the pile, jumped on the pile. A Weis said Hughes was “going freshman campaign. He was couple of my guys came up to get [the ball] every play most in his element in Notre 

Hughes, pictured running a play fake in April’s Blue-Gold Game, has accounted for 13 touchdowns and more than 1,100 rushing yards in his career. 

Dame’s rain-soaked win over Michigan in the second game of the season, with his punish­ing downhill style translating into 19 carries, 79 yards and two touchdowns. Hughes, though, hesitates to pinpoint one moment or game as his favorite of the past four years. 
“It’s just been a great four years,” he said. “In the course of one year, so many things happen — so many great things happen. To sit here and say there’s one special great moment would just not really shed light on all the time that I had here.” 
A year later, Hughes saw his role on the team change slightly. When then-senior James Aldridge went down with an injury, Hughes was forced into duty at the fullback position. 
“It just adds versatility to your résumé,” he said of the position switch. “It’s just like any other profession, going and getting experience in dif­ferent things. Whatever I can do to help the team win, I’ll definitely try my hardest at it and do it because I love the guys on this team.” 
When he did get the ball during the junior season, though, Hughes made the most of it. Even though his total carries decreased from 112 to 88, his rushing yards rose from 382 to 416 to go along with five touchdowns. In his first start of the season against Washington State, the junior had a career-high 24 carries for 131 yards and a score. 
So far this season, Hughes has been used primarily as a blocking back in Irish coach Brian Kelly’s spread offense, but showed his effectiveness three weeks ago against Western Michigan, when he rushed the ball eight times for 63 yards. Hughes said he has also assumed a lead-by-exam­ple role in the Irish backfield this season. 
“The leadership role that I play isn’t really using words or being a rah-rah guy,” he said. “It’s really just continu­ing to fight. I think knowing what I’ve been through and having other guys look at me and see I’m still fighting, still standing strong, hopefully that inspires a lot of guys to keep doing this.” 
Hughes said the most memo­rable part of his Notre Dame experience has been the strong bonds formed in the Irish locker room, through both wins and losses. 
“It’s much different than just having regular friends because you’re going through the same things, you’re going through the same struggles,” he said. “It’s good to look over at the guy next to you and know that he’s bearing the same problem’s you’re bear­ing. You’re patting him on the back and he’ll pat you on the back.” 
He did note, however, that the reasons he came to Notre Dame in the first place encom­passed more than the football program. Though he consid­ered numerous Big Ten schools during the recruiting process, he said the decision was “hands-down” Notre Dame. 
“I could’ve gone to any other school and got though just fine, but I wanted to come here and challenge myself academically,” he said. “I knew it was going to be diffi­cult so I pretty much took a leap of faith, and I knew at the end of the day I’d be better for it.” 
Has that challenge paid off? 
“I’m much wiser, much smarter than when I came in here,” Hughes said with a smile. 
As for this week’s game against Utah, Hughes said the enormity of Senior Day hadn’t even hit him yet. 
“It’s amazing how it came up so fast,” he said. “It sort of crept up on me. Feels like yes­terday I was running out of the tunnel for the first time.” 
Whether or not he realizes it, Hughes’ senior year is winding down, but at the end of the long practices and after disappointing losses, though, there’s always one thing Hughes said he could count on when he goes home — his 1 ½-year-old Dogo Argentino, Raycu, will be there to greet him. 
“He doesn’t care whether the day’s bad or good,” Hughes said. “He’s happy to see me and I come home happy to see him.” 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

BRANDON WALKER 

One of Walker’s first kicks counts as his favorite 
of talented freshmen was expect-ous back injury. The injury was a
By MICHAEL TODISCO 

ed to lead Notre Dame back to particularly difficult time for 
Sports Writer 

national prominence. Walker, as he could not kick at all 
Walker earned the starting for the entire year. While Walker 
Many athletes chose Notre kicker role his freshman year, a contemplated ending his football Dame at the end of their recruit-season in which the Irish went 3-career, the unity from his team­ing process because of the 9. Walker said that his tumul-mates drove him to return to the University’s unique blend of ath-tuous freshman season was a dif-squad. letic tradition and academic ficult adjustment from high “There was a time when I excellence. For senior kicker school. thought I would have to hang it Brandon Walker, it was fate. “It was tough to be thrown in up for good because of the 
While kicking for his Midget there as a freshman and start injury,” Walker said. “It just was-football team in fifth grade, losing because all of us who had n’t allowing me to do what I do Walker’s talents were identified been recruited came from win-best or perform at the level that I by his hometown Findlay, Ohio, ning programs,” he said. needed to, but no matter what high school football coach. The Although the season was a dis-the guys and coaches were coach called Walker over and appointing one for the Irish, always there for me. My desire to told him that if he kept kicking, Walker’s favorite memory from just be part of the team again is one day he could end up playing his time as a Notre Dame player what motivated me to get back in for Notre Dame. came during that 2007 season. shape.” 
The young Walker shrugged off In the game at UCLA, Walker Walker’s greatest challenge at the coach’s prediction as a long kicked a crucial 48-yard field Notre Dame came not from his shot. During his senior season at goal in the third quarter to lead opponents, but rather from some Findlay High School, it seemed the Irish to victory. Walker said of the fervent Irish fans. As a that Walker’s skepticism was well he would always remember his highly touted recruit, Walker cer­founded. He had committed to big game at the Rose Bowl. tainly had high expectations from play for Louisville under coach “The game at UCLA was defi-the Irish faithful. After struggles Bobby Petrino. nitely my defining moment on the in his freshman and sophomore 
When Petrino fled Louisville for field,” Walker said. year and his injury junior year, a job in the NFL, Walker’s deci-Walker said he remembers his some of the criticism from the ing me to watch their form if the man for the job. sion-making process was strong performance that day with fans became hard for Walker to something wasn’t feeling right,” “Coach Kelly and his staff are reopened. Notre Dame was the a special souvenir he acquired on handle. Walker said. “Definitely being perfect for this institution. What first school to call. Thinking back the trip to Los Angeles. “I know that the fans are really here to help them was important you guys see on the field may not to the words of his high school “Coach Weis gave me the game passionate, but it was really hard not only for the football aspect be exactly what you want to see football coach, Walker knew that ball that day, and it says ‘Rose to hear some of their criticism,” but also with life. With Tausch at the moment but everyone here it was meant to be. Bowl’ right on it,” Walker said Walker said. “We have really coming in as a freshman, he had is behind him and the changes 
“When Notre Dame made me with a blend of reminiscence and great fans, but at the same time I a few issues where he wanted to are for the best.” an offer, I took it as a sign that I pride. “I gave that to my parents have heard plenty of really tough talk with me and I would always In a final assessment of his needed to come here,” Walker as a Christmas gift to thank them comments.” be available for him.” time at Notre Dame, one filled said. “When I took my visit, the for everything that they’ve done After returning from injury, Looking to the future, Walker with highs and lows, praise and school was everything that I for me.” Walker faced stiff competition to predicted success for his own criticism, Walker said that he had thought it would be and more. It Despite a slow start to his regain his job. Nate Tausch and career and the Notre Dame foot-not a single regret. just worked out perfectly.” sophomore campaign, Walker David Ruffer had two of the most ball program. “Even though my career didn’t 
Walker’s time at Notre Dame finished the season strong, con-successful seasons for kickers in “I was happy when Mendoza work out how I imagined, it is was immediately met with necting on 13 of his last 17 Notre Dame history. After it became the No. 1 business school absolutely fate that I should be immense pressure and mam-attempts, including six field goals became evident that he would just in time for me to graduate here all the way from Midget moth expectations. As one of the from beyond 40 yards. He even not win the starting job for his with my finance degree,” Walker football, and I would not change nation’s top kicking prospects, led the team in scoring despite junior or senior season, Walker said. “I am looking into the whole a thing or one moment of my Walker was part of the illustrious missing the Boston College game. began mentoring and teaching job process and I have a really career.” recruiting class that included Walker’s bright career took a the young kickers. good lead out in California.” quarterback Jimmy Clausen and back seat to his health in his jun-“Many times they would come As for the Irish, Walker Contact Michael Todisco at receiver Golden Tate. The group ior year, when he suffered a seri-to me and ask for advice or ask-believes that coach Brian Kelly is mtodisco@nd.edu 

DERRY HERLIHY 

Former rugby player grasps chance as a walk-on 
[grown] man to play rugby. Another Notre Dame subcul-
By SAM WERNER 

“It definitely toughened me ture of which Herlihy is a proud 
Sports Writer 

up a little bit. Hitting someone member is the Walk-On Players with pads on is a piece of cake Union, more commonly known New jersey number, new skill after you do it without any as WOPU Nation. An unofficial set, new persona — just anoth-pads.” club formed by the walk-on er week for senior Derry Herlihy returned to football members of the team, Herlihy Herlihy. full-time in 2009, and said that called WOPU “one of the As a member of Notre Dame’s the main feeling when he made coolest things [he’s] been a part scout team, it’s Herlihy’s job to the team was “relief.” After two of at Notre Dame.” He said the mimic opposing players that rounds of tryouts, the 10 or so walk-ons hang out together the first team defense needs to remaining walk-ons had to sur-outside of practice and keep in prepare for. vive five weeks of 5:30 a.m. touch through a “pretty hilari­
“They’ll give us a jersey num-“workouts from hell,” accord-ous” e-mail thread. ber of someone on the other ing to Herlihy. While WOPU was created in team, and we’re that person for “I was really excited when I good fun, Herlihy said that it a week,” he said. “I’ve played made the first cut in tryouts,” has forged an important bond H-back, running back, wide he said. “Then after that it was between the non-scholarship receiver. But it’s a lot of fun a constant worry of how did I players. because you’re doing some-do today? Who was watching “When [a member of WOPU thing a little different every me? Am I going to get cut? It Nation gets] on the field, every week.” was relief [when I made the single guy rallies around those 
That ability to play multiple team], because by that time all guys because they’re represent-positions gives Herlihy a unique my friends thought I was on the ing us,” Herlihy said. “They role. team, so I didn’t want to have represent all the hard work we 
“I’m kind of a hybrid, like an to tell everybody, ‘Oh, I got do; we go through everything X-factor,” he joked. cut.’” together. When those guys get 
Herlihy made his first attempt It’s those friends, though, that on the field and get a chance to at walking on to the team his helped define Herlihy’s four make an impact for Notre freshman year, but didn’t sur-years at Notre Dame. He said Dame football, it means some-Notre Dame Stadium is a spe-Dame football player. vive the final cut. Instead of the connections he made dur-thing to every single guy in cial thing — something that I’ll “There’s a million people that giving up, the Houston native ing his first year in St. WOPU.” carry with me for the rest of my would give a ton to be in our returned a year later to fulfill Edward’s Hall have held strong Herlihy has only seen action life.” place, putting on the gold hel­his goal. up to this day. in the Blue-Gold Game, but that Upon graduation in May, met and representing Notre 
During the interim, Herlihy “Most of my friends are guys alone, he said, was a once-in-a-Herlihy — an economics and Dame,” Herlihy said. “So if you took his talents to the rugby that I lived with freshman year, lifetime experience. political science double major have the chance to do that, pitch, joining Notre Dame’s guys that I lived down the hall “I think I got three carries for — said he will begin working in you’ve got to take advantage of club rugby team in its first sea-from freshman year,” Herlihy about one yard in the spring sales and trading for Deutsche it.” son returning to Division I. said. “You always feel like game,” he said. “But … just lin-Bank in New York. For now, 
“Rugby is a man’s game,” you’re a part of something ing up on the field wearing the though, he said he’s just trying Contact Sam Werner at Herlihy said. “You have to be a greater than yourself.” Notre Dame uniform playing in to enjoy his time as a Notre swerner@nd.edu 


DAVID RUFFER 

Walk-on, now a starter, shatters Irish records 
After a tryout, Ruffer walked-By making kick after kick, 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 

on to the Tribe football team. Ruffer has raised the Notre 
Sports Editor 

“I walked on there kicking,” Dame standard for place kick-he said. “and it’s worked out ers. His 18 consecutive made Editor’s note: This article ever since.” field goals bested Tausch’s first appeared in the Oct. 15 school record of 14, as well as edition of The Observer. A field goal and a tryout the previous record for most Once he transferred to Notre consecutive made field goals to 
When David Ruffer walked Dame, Ruffer joined the open a career, which was pre­off the practice fields Tuesday Siegfried interhall football viously 13. afternoon, two loyal autograph team, and after two games, in “I try not to think about [the seekers quickly approached which he kicked one field goal streak],” he said. “Right now him and asked for his signa-and a couple of extra points, I’m zero-for-zero with Western ture. Unsurprisingly, the senior attempted to walk on with the Michigan coming up, and that walk-on kicker signed away — Irish. is how I approach every something he never thought he “It was more of when I would game.” would be in a position to do. go out and practice [that I Ruffer’s 50-yard kick against 
“It’s cool I guess,” Ruffer said impressed people],” Ruffer Pittsburgh tied the sixth-a few seconds after putting the said. longest field goal in Notre cap back on the provided The tryout process was Dame history. The longest in Sharpie. “I never really threefold — one night with school history was kicked in thought of myself as somebody only tees and the then-special 1976 by Dave Reeve, a 53­one day who would be signing teams coach Brian Polian, one yarder. Reeve should not count autographs, but I’ll take what I night with a snapper and hold-his record safe as long as can get. It’s neat to be in that er and Polian, and a final night Ruffer is kicking, according to position.” in front of then-Irish coach special teams coach Mike 
Then again, Ruffer never Charlie Weis. Elston. really thought of himself as “I was really nervous. These “I see the kid kick 52 or 53 somebody who would be Notre guys were going to see me for yarders every day,” Elston said. Dame’s starting place kicker, about 15 or 20 minutes, and if “We were well in front of his having never missed a compet-I don’t do really well, they will threshold [on the 50-yard field itive field goal, even splitting probably not want to see me goal] which is really about the the uprights from 50 yards again,” he said. “I just hoped I 35-yard line.” away. In fact, the only aspect of would perform to the best of Ruffer’s current life he could my ability. I would have obvi-‘Kickers are head-cases’ have anticipated is the one ously been upset with myself if After the Pittsburgh game, in aspect that initially had been I came out here and didn’t do which Ruffer also connected on denied him — being a student the best that I know I could 32-and 31-yard field goals, he at Notre Dame. have.” attributed much of his success 
Impress them he surely did, to junior holder Ryan Denial serves its purpose as Ruffer does not remember Kavanagh, also a walk-on. 
Ruffer’s father and grandfa-missing a single kick in the “Ryan Kavanagh is one of my ther graduated from Notre three tryout sessions. best friends and he will say Dame, as did a few of his something to keep me calm,” uncles and his older sister, but The rest is history Ruffer said. “But then from when Ruffer received a Ruffer only took one kick in a when the ball is snapped to response to his application, it game in 2008, a point-after when I kick it I don’t know was not the response anybody attempt that clanked off the what happens.” in the family had hoped for. upright. In 2009, Ruffer took Tuesday Kavanagh said he “head-case” in kickers that Ruffer qickly dismisses those 
“I grew up loving Notre over place kicking duties after knows he needs to keep a close Kavanagh refers to, but in thoughts. Dame. I just wanted to be a incumbent Nick Tausch injured eye on Ruffer, if for no other Ruffer it is more of an even “I don’t plan on playing foot-student first of all,” Ruffer his foot, and Ruffer connected reason than the position he demeanor that Elston sees. ball forever,” he said. “It’s said. “I didn’t get in as a fresh-on nine of his 10 point-after plays. “The kickers that I’ve been probably going to end after this man, and that was probably attempts, and all five field goal “Kickers are head-cases,” around that are good athletes, season and I’ll need to get the best thing that ever hap-attempts. Kavanagh said. “You have to that have a good demeanor, started on the next chapter of pened to me. It made me real-After nine games this season, make sure they’re honed in on that aren’t just specialists as my life. ize you have to work really he has made all 13 of his field the ball. kickers and have done other “NFL stands for Not For hard for the things you want.” goal attempts, bringing his “I just give him a couple things in their athletic career, Long, right? I would give it a 
Ruffer then turned his eyes to Notre Dame career total to 19-reminders, take it easy, make they typically tend to be more shot, but if there is something William & Mary for a year, of-19. Including his one field sure he takes a deep breath ... competitive and more even-else that gives me more of a where, after four years of play-goal as a Rambler, Ruffer has I just make sure he’s just keeled when they take the field sense of fulfillment, I’ll do that ing varsity golf in high school, never missed a field goal focused on the kick.” in pressure situations,” Elston instead.” he took up kicking field goals. attempt in competition. Elston said he has seen the said. “Because they are used to Amid all of his success on the 
being in it.” field, the primary reason 
Whatever reasoning Ruffer is at Notre Dame hasn’t Kavanagh and Elston have for changed — the same reason he his success this season, Ruffer wanted to come to the thinks he has found a groove University in the first place. simply because he has relaxed, “It’s been difficult, but I still in all areas of his life. think of myself as a student 
“I still work really hard [in first,” he said. “That’s why I’m school], but before I was really going through the interview a perfectionist. Now I have process right now, and just try-grown up to a point where I ing to get that Notre Dame realize things won’t always go degree.” your way,” Ruffer said. “That Ruffer, an Economics major, little bit of a laid-back attitude interned in the accounting has helped my focus a little department of Gurley Leep bit.” over the summer, and has not 
At some point, things on the decided what he will do after football field won’t necessarily graduation, nor has he ruled go Ruffer’s way. He may miss a much out. field goal — believe it or not, “I could go and be a house he does miss them in practice. husband,” he said. “If my wife When the Saturday afternoon is the bread winner, maybe I’ll comes that one goes awry, just take care of the kids.” Ruffer said he is ready to deal He may not know what the with that setback. future holds, but Ruffer did not 
“You can only learn from expect any of what the present mistakes,” he said. “You can’t holds either, as he continues to make every single one, so it move past his wildest dreams, will happen eventually. The field goal after field goal. trick will be how I bounce back “I never thought this was from that. It will happen, but I going to happen. Obviously I feel like I have a pretty strong thought it’d be something cool, head, so I’ll be okay.” but never to this magnitude. I 
can’t say it’s a dream come ‘Not For Long’ true, because I never really 
If Ruffer keeps making each dreamed of this much.” and every one of his field goals, questions concerning the NFL Contact Douglas Farmer at are bound to come his way. dfarmer1@nd.edu 



RYAN SHEEHAN 

Two-sport star leaves track behind to walk on 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
For many high school stu­dents, picking a college is a simple decision — just choose the one that has the best bal­ance of academic and athletic prestige. For senior corner­back Ryan Sheehan, the deci­sion was a little more compli­cated. 
An eight-time varsity-letter winner at Loudon Valley High School in Purcellville, Va., Sheehan starred in both track and football. In track, he won conference and state titles while setting school records. 
In football, his list of accomplishments was no less stellar, earning all-district honors and ranking at the top of his team in both rushing 
But during his freshman year, Sheehan partially tore his Achilles tendon, ending his season and leaving him 
out of action for eight months. The lengthy healing process gave Sheehan a chance to evaluate his priori­ties, during which he made the decision to drop track and follow his true passion — football. 
“When I made that decision, I was unsure of how my fami­ly would react to me quitting track, ” Sheehan said. “It turned out that I had my fam­ily’s full support.” 
As Sheehan learned, it would be no small task to switch sports. During his sophomore year, tryouts were held at 4:30 a.m. for the entire semester. During such 
a difficult time, Sheehan 

y a r d s t a c k l e s .  a n d H i s  “I was the frst from my  reflected that it would have  
s e n i o r y e a r, S h e e h a n w a s named Loudon Va l l e y ’s M o s t O u t s t a n d i n g  family to come here, and I rave about this place all the time when I go home. I have no  been easy to s i m p l y g i v e u p , b u t t h a t he always had the support of  
Male Athlete. S h e e h a n faced the deci­sion of fulfill- doubt that I am a better person now than when I frst started here.”  his family. “My parents and my broth­ers helped me  
ing his dream  g e t  t h r o u g h  
of becoming a college football p l a y e r a t a  Ryan Sheehan senior cornerback  i t , ” S h e e h a n s a i d . “ T h e y c o m e t o t h e  
s m a l l  s c h o o l ,  g a m e s  e v e n  
o r  c o m i n g  t o  though I have  

Notre Dame under scholar-not gotten much playing time. ship as a track athlete. Unlike They make the drive from his four brothers who made Virginia every weekend to see the decision to play college me on the sidelines.” football, Sheehan decided to Despite making the squad, go in a different direction and the nature of being a student-accept Notre Dame’s scholar-athlete prevented life from ship offer. getting any easier. He now had to juggle the life of a var­sity athlete with the academic workload of a Notre Dame student — without a full scholarship this time. Nevertheless, Sheehan believes that having such a busy schedule ending up helping, not hindering, his academic life. 

“I’ve actually gotten better grades since joining the foot­ball team even though I have had more difficult classes as I have gotten older,” Sheehan said. “I had to put in the time to make sure I did well. I had no choice but to work hard or fail.” 
Sheehan added that a typi­cal day in his life includes classes, practice, and then heading straight to the library to do homework. 
All of the experiences Sheehan has encountered during his time at Notre Dame have prepared him to excel once he graduates in the spring. As an accounting major, he plans on pursuing a master’s degree, but is still unsure of where that will be. This summer, he will be working in the field of public accounting in Washington, D.C. 
Despite the struggles, set­backs and hardships he has faced, Sheehan looks back on his time at Notre Dame with a positive attitude. 
“I’m very happy with my experience,” he said. “Coming here and meeting all the peo­ple, especially the other walk-ons, has exposed me to some­thing unique. I was the first from my family to come here, and I rave about this place all the time when I go home. I have no doubt that I am a better person now than when I first started here.” 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 

By ANDREW GASTELUM Sports Writer  while captaining the football and baseball teams at Norwin High School in Pittsburgh, Pa.  Even with a schedule filled with medical school interviews, keeping up with friends, and  undersized makes you realize how important the intangibles are in football because you  he made the team to his family during spring of his freshman year, Redshaw waited until  
“Academics and sports have  football practice in the after­ can’t teach that,” Redshaw  Easter break,  a  week before  
The priorities of the student  always been a big part of my  noon,  Redshaw’s  pre-med  said. “It serves as inspiration  the annual Blue-Gold exhibition  
come before the priorities of  life, since I was little,” Redshaw  major still makes academics his  that shows you how important  game.  
the athlete, and according to  said.  “My  parents  always  No. 1 priority. The senior has  every rep is in practice and  “My dad practically fell out of  
senior cornerback James “J.T.”  taught  me  that grades  come  maintained  a  4.0 GPA while  where it can get you.”  the booth while my mom just  
Redshaw,  that’s  the  way  it  first, but I never really got good  transferring his drive and dedi- While Redshaw draws inspi­ started crying,” Redshaw said.  
should be.  grades for anybody else but  cation to the football field.  ration in those around him on  “It just shows how much that  
Redshaw graduated  as  his  myself, because that was what I  “Coming  out  [to practice]  the football field, he finds moti­ meant to them, knowing how  
high  school’s  valedictorian  wanted to do.”  against this caliber of athletes  vation in his family, trying to  important football is to  me.  
always keeps you driven and  return their sacrifices with his  They really had no idea that I  
motivated to do whatever you  success.  was trying out for the team.”  
can  to help the team for the  “I see all of my family’s hard  In fact, the only person close  
upcoming Saturday,” Redshaw  work to get me to a place like  to Redshaw who knew that he  
said. “I love  ND,  so  it’s  was trying out for the team was  
waking  up  the  least  I  his roommate, and that  was  
every day and coming  “You wouldn’t want to tell  can do to just give my best  simply a result of Redshaw waking up at 4:30 a.m. to work  
here to be a part of this team, know­ing that I  anybody about the tryouts because at any moment you could get cut.”  effort when I am given this w o n d e r f u l opportunity,”  out with the squad. “You wouldn’t want to tell anybody about the tryouts because at any moment you  
contribute to  R e d s h a w  could get cut,” Redshaw said. “I  
s o m e t h i n g  James Redshaw  said.  didn’t want to get anyone’s  
great.” Without his  senior cornerback  F o o t b a l l and family  hopes up, and especially not mine.”  
football pads,  seem  to  Despite the early practices  
the 5-foot-9  mesh well in  and  the  grueling  process,  
cornerback is hardly recog­ the Redshaw family, especially  Redshaw quickly adds that he  
nized on campus, often having  living in  a  football town  in  would do it all over again in a  
to prove his position on the ros­ western Pennsylvania.  heartbeat.  
ter.  “Growing up in Pittsburgh,  “Putting on the gold helmet is  
But Redshaw finds inspiration  football is  a way of life,” the  truly special and I will cherish  
in former walk-on, and 2009  senior said. “My dad was one of  it forever,” Redshaw said.  “It is  
graduate, Mike Anello, who  those dads that make sure they  something that has epitomized  
became a special teams expert  show up for every practice and  my time here and my whole  
and fan-favorite despite his  game, and for him to see me  college experience.”  
Courtesy of Lighthouse Imaging  small stature.  play for Notre Dame is some- 
Senior offensive guard Chris St ewart found playing under the  “Seeing  everything  that  thing special.”  Contact Andrew Gastelum at  
Dome a different atmosphere than the one he came from.  [Anello] went through being  When breaking the news that  agastel1@nd.edu  

JAMES REDSHAW 

4.0 GPA not all that defines cornerback’s Notre Dame career 
DARRIN WALLS 

Calvin Johnson, BCS berth highlight Walls’career 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
Many times life does not go as planned, even for a highly recruited football player. Irish senior Darrin Walls has con­stantly faced adversity over the past several years, but he has overcome it and con­tributed with four years of playing time, three as a starter. 
In fact, Walls’ football career nearly came to an abrupt end before he even had visions of running out of the tunnel at Notre Dame Stadium. 
“My sophomore year in high school I had shoulder surgery and I thought my career was done,” he said. 
Walls fought through the pain and rehabilitation to return to the team his junior year. While things were start­ing to return to normal on the football field, he experienced as a freshman, he did so as one of the top 30 players in the nation from the previous recruiting class, according to most websites. The expecta­tions were high, and Walls was pressed into action from the get-go. He earned playing time during his freshman sea­son in the secondary for the Irish, who entered the 2006 season ranked No. 2 in the country. 
In his collegiate debut, Walls had the difficult task of covering All-American wide receiver Calvin Johnson of Georgia Tech. The Irish fresh­man held the future second overall pick in the NFL Draft to two catches and 16 yards in the second half. The shut­down of Johnson was crucial in helping Notre Dame earn a hard-fought 14-10 victory in Atlanta. 
Walls immediately had to perform at a high level not only on the field, but also in the classroom. As a double major in psy ­

t r a g e d y i n his personal life. Two of his cousins,  “I’d say the support and the caring of everyone including the students at  c h o l o gy a n d s o c i o l o g y, h e quickly learned how to balance  
a g e s  se ve n  Notre Dame has been  academics and  
and 30, died w it h i n a  great.”  athletics. “ I m e a n  i t ’s  
year of each other. Once  Darrin Walls  b e e n t ou g h , e s pec i a l l y my  
again Walls  senior cornerback  fi r s t  c o u p l e  
experienced  years, because  
h a r d s h i p  i t  w a s  a n  
and needed  adjustment  to  

support and mental toughness academics and having to jug-to fight through it. gle football at the same time,” 
His senior year, as a five-Walls said. “It was difficult star cornerback and prized coming out of high school. recruit, he needed shoulder Here you have so many things surgery again. Despite the that demand time, but it’s setback, he received offers been good. Notre Dame has so from Florida, Michigan and many academic services for in-state schools Pittsburgh student-athletes to help with and Penn State, before even-the transition.” tually deciding that Notre One of Walls’ most memo-Dame was the institution best rable moments occurred in suited for him. his fourth game at Notre 
When he stepped on campus Dame. The Irish, fresh off a 47 -21 loss at home to Michigan, were in East Lansing and trailing Michigan State 37-21 in the fourth quarter under extreme weath­er conditions. Walls and the Irish pulled off a dramatic comeback to win the game, 40-37, and save the season. Had Notre Dame lost that game, they would have fallen to 2-2 on the season and would have had to win their final eight games to earn a BCS berth. 
While Notre Dame finished the regular season 10-2 and reached the Sugar Bowl, the fortunes of the Irish would soon change. The team endured a nightmarish 3-9 season in 2007 after the grad­uation of several stars, includ­ing quarterback Brady Quinn and wide receiver Jeff Samardzija. 
Despite the team’s struggles in the 2007 campaign, Walls’ top memory from his time at Notre Dame occurred in the second week of the season. As the starting cornerback in a difficult environment at Penn State, he recorded his first interception on a pass from Anthony Morelli and returned it for a touchdown, the only time the Irish would reach the end zone that evening. 
“It was a special moment for me,” Walls said. “I was able to record my first interception and touchdown in my home state. My entire family was at the game and was able to see it.” 
When the Irish players returned to campus in the fall of 2008, their starting corner­back from the previous season remained home. Walls remained in Pittsburgh for the entire semester and sat out the football season due to per­sonal reasons. 
“I was at home for a semes­ter,” he said. “Basically I took some time off and tried to bounce back. I learned a lot from that experience. I learned to avoid taking any­thing for granted. It’s impor­tant to appreciate what you have in life and I learned that Notre Dame is a special place and that I’m fortunate to be here.” 



But adversity was nothing new for Walls. He had been through it before and, once again, overcame it. 
He returned to campus for the spring semester and regained control of the start­ing cornerback position. With much of the squad returning and what many considered to be a favorable schedule, the Irish headed into the 2009 season with high expecta ­tions, despite the many ques­tions surrounding the pro­gram following a 7-6 season. 
Walls started eight games and played in all 12 as an important member of the defense. Once again, hope turned into despair once the Irish finished the season 6-6 and fired coach Charlie Weis. It was another turning point for both the program and Walls. 
Shortly after terminating Weis’ contract, Notre Dame hired Brian Kelly to take over the football program. The change at the top also meant a completely new defensive staff, meaning Walls would play under his second head coach and fourth different defensive coordinator in his four seasons. Rather than use the experience as an excuse, he turned it into motivation for his final season with the Irish. 
“I feel like sometimes it’s good to have a new start and new beginnings,” Walls said. “Every coach I’ve had has been a great coach and I’ve learned a lot. Good things are going to happen with this pro­gram.” 
He entered the season as the most experienced member of the secondary, having start­ed 21 of 32 games for the Irish. His 16 pass breakups ranked ninth in Notre Dame history at the start of the 2010 campaign. 
Once the final snap takes place Saturday evening and the seniors sing the Alma Mater for the final time as players in Notre Dame Stadium, reality will sink in and they will realize that their collegiate careers will quickly come to a close. Walls, howev­er, is intent on making the most out of the lessons he has learned and making a bright future for himself. 
“I’m not really sure where the future will take me,” he said. “We’ll see what happens after the season and how everything turns out. I’d like to try to go to the NFL. If my football career is over I’d like to work with kids somehow and coach football at the high school level.” 
During the difficulties he has faced over the past sever­al years, Walls has received the full support of others to help him overcome the set­backs. 
“I’d say the support and the caring of everyone including the students and professors at Notre Dame has been great,” he said. “Everyone cares about each other and it is a loving place. They tell you that when they’re recruiting you, but it’s true.” 
Not only has the Notre Dame community enabled Walls to fight through difficult times, but so has his family. 
“I’d say my brother and sis­ter don’t know this, but they are my greatest inspiration for playing well and playing hard,” he said. “They don’t know, but I play for them and I just want to be a good role model for my family.” 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 

BRIAN CASTELLO 

Calling in plays earns back-up quarterback airtime 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame’s backup quar­terbacks signal plays with dynamic and often humorous gestures. But Bryan Castello’s favorite sign is more subdued. 
“The victory kneel, ” the senior walk -on said. He demonstrated the sign by raising his right hand with his middle and ring fingers in the air, thumb and index finger together and pinkie folded. 
“It’s the signal of the Red Army, which is what we call the quarterbacks. And we won, so we get to do the vic­tory kneel.” 
Castello nearly always stands to the direct left of Irish coach Brian Kelly when Notre Dame is on offense, and is caught on TV often when the cameras look to the side­lines for Kelly. 
“We move it around, but more often than not I am next to Coach,” Castello said. “Gives me a lot of TV time. … I’ll take whatever publicity I can get.” 
Castello tried out to be a walk-on in the spring of his freshman year with friend Chris Bathon, who graduated in 2010. Both made the team 
— Bathon as a defensive back and Castello as a quarter­back. 
“The worst thing that hap­pens is you don’t make it,” Castello said. “But I worked hard enough, and I got on the team and have been for three years.” 
In those three years, the Pittsburgh native has prac­ticed with many other quar­terbacks, including several from California. 


“Our quarterback room is very California versus Midwest, with Dayne [Crist], Nate [Montana] and [Matt] Mulvey being from California and then myself, [Andrew] Hendrix, Luke [Massa] and Tommy [Rees] being from the Midwest,” he said. “We send some jokes their way, they send some jokes our way. It’s all in good fun though.” 
Castello has also gotten close with the rest of the walk-on players, in what they have termed the Walk -On Players Union. 
“Everyone knows the trials and tribulations of walk-ons, and that brings us all togeth­er,” he said. “We all have a common characteristic: a lot of walk-ons are really good guys and that’s who you want to surround yourselves with. So yeah, WOPU Nation.” 
The walk-ons have a formal every spring and make plenty of T-shirts. Castello said the saying on this year’s shirt is especially meaningful. 
“This year’s is ‘Going pro in something other than sports,’” he said. “Because it’s true for almost everyone.” 
“Going pro ” means law school for Castello, an aero­space engineering major. He is in the process of applying, and listed Georgetown, Duke and Michigan as his top three choices. 
“I know that’s not your con­ventional path,” he said. “Coming out of high school I knew engineering was the right choice for me. I don’t know how I decided but I decided on aerospace. In the last year and a half or so, I started seriously considering law school to the point where now I’m 100 percent commit­ted to law school.” 
While his technical expert­ise would help in practicing patent law, Castello said he would like to branch out and work in intellectual property law. 
“It’s a lot like the ‘Social Network’ movie, like copy­rights and trademarks and licensing,” he said. “That’s what I see myself doing. 
“I’d be the one getting the people that deserve the money the money.” 
Castello’s father, a Notre Dame alumnus, is also a lawyer. Castello said he talked to his dad, director of athletics Jack Swarbrick and several other attorneys in choosing to pursue law. 
Castello acknowledged the help of Notre Dame’s alumni network as he “moves closer to the real world,” but his time at school is not over just yet, and he said the time spent with friends makes up his favorite memories. 
“Different events you have with your friends, whether it be a certain social event you go to, or event you put together with your friends and teammates,” he said. “I think those define your col­lege career.” 
And if the seniors from WOPU Nation form a Bookstore Basketball team this spring, Castello will be on it. 
“Basketball was really my first love from a sports stand­point, ” he said. “But you know what, football’s really a great time. Especially at Notre Dame, you experience the tradition of Notre Dame football and it’s something truly special.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
PAT COUGHLIN 

‘Turtle’ emerges as special teams contributor 
return practice, and [Irish special tackles in Notre Dame’s loss to the 
By MATT GAMBER 

teams coach Mike] Elston was just Wolverines, and he also made 
Sports Writer 

like, ‘Who’s that kid running down open-field solo tackles against 
on scout team? You need to be Western Michigan and Navy. But 
Patrick Coughlin’s 11 carries for running with the two-deeps,’” said that game against Michigan still 80 yards in last year’s Blue-Gold Coughlin, who saw an opportunity stands out, Coughlin said. Game didn’t catapult him into that might someday lead to play-“That was the most exciting competition for time in a crowded ing time. “That five-minute period game for me on the field because Irish backfield. But the walk-on’s of kickoff, I had a game-day we started down early in the first surprising performance in his first Saturday mentality running down half, came back with two touch-live reps at running back since every play. Eventually, the coaches downs, and I got to run down the eighth grade helped lay the foun-noticed that and got me in.” field while the place was just dation for meaningful time on Coughlin, whose friends call him erupting,” he said. “That was the kickoff and kick return as a senior. “Turtle,” made his Irish debut coolest feeling of my football 
“Playing in that game was the when, during the opener against career.” beginning of me thinking that I Purdue, an injury to a starter on A career that nearly ended after can really play with these guys kickoff gave him an opportunity to a shoulder injury cut short his and contribute to this team. It was run with the first team. The move senior season at Chicago’s Brother definitely the first time I thought seemed temporary, however, as Rice High School. Hoping to play a that,” said Coughlin, who played Coughlin remained in a backup college sport, Coughlin dedicated receiver under the previous role until the following Thursday himself to track, winning the coaching staff. “The transition to morning leading up to the Catholic League’s high hurdles running back through the whole Michigan game. title and qualifying for the state spring — being in the trenches, “I got a text from [fellow walk-meet. After Coughlin decided to carrying the ball, getting more on Nick] Lezynski that said, ‘the attend Notre Dame, his high involved in everything — all new depth charts are up, and school coach convinced him to join helped make me a lot more confi-you’re starting on kickoff,’” the Irish track team. Injuries hin­dent.” Coughlin said. “I couldn’t really dered his freshman track season 
Fast forward to fall camp when, believe it, so I got in my car 15 at Notre Dame, and once sopho-until that trip that I really realized “I owe a lot to Brian. He was as a member of the scout kickoff minutes earlier than I normally do more year rolled around, it had how much I missed playing foot-always there, as a guy who had team, Coughlin proved too much and went to the locker room become clear to Coughlin that he ball,” said Coughlin, an accounting been there before, telling me for the first Irish return unit to myself before class to check it out. missed his athletic passion: foot-major who hopes to follow in his throughout that I could compete handle in practice. During those Once I saw I was up there, the ball. brother’s footsteps once again and with anyone. I was just like yeah, valuable reps, Coughlin was con-next 48 hours were just a blur — The turning point came at the achieve a Master of Accountancy whatever, but he kept it in the sistently winning the race down calling people, watching a lot of 2008 Hawaii Bowl, where from Notre Dame next season. “I back of my mind that I could real-the field, going unblocked and film and just making sure I was Coughlin traveled to watch his saw the camaraderie of those ly play and not just be a scout making the tackle — the three 100 percent prepared to succeed older brother Brian, then a walk-guys, and especially of the WOPU team guy. And now I’m playing.” keys to successful kick coverage. and not let it just be a one-time on who graduated last May. [Walk-On Players Union] Nation, 
“Finally, one day, we’re watch-thing.” “Walking on had always been in and that convinced me to give it a Contact Matt Gamber at ing film of the prior day’s kick Coughlin was credited with two the back of my mind, but it wasn’t shot. mgamber@nd.edu 


HARRISON SMITH 

Amid years of change, safety adapts in form 
bringing it up to him as a topic 
By BLAIR CHEMIDLIN 
of conversation. Smith specifi-
Sports Writer 
cally cited his “mom and 
grandmom” as giving him a 

When asked how he feels hard time about his long hair about this weekend’s game more than anyone else. against Utah being his last Although Smith admitted football game in Notre Dame some disappointing games and Stadium, senior safety seasons during his time at Harrison Smith replied quick-Notre Dame, he hopes to use ly, “That question doesn’t his last year to turn things apply to me.” around. 
According to Smith and “Since I’ve been here, we defensive backs coach Chuck haven’t really had a strong Martin, Smith, who red-shirt-team. That is something I real-ed his freshman year, will ly want to have. When people most likely be coming back for see us on their schedule, I the 2011 season. want them to say ‘Oh, no, this 
The 6-foot -2-inch, 214 -week is Notre Dame,’” Smith pound Knoxville, Tenn., native said. “That is something I has played both safety and want to bring Notre Dame linebacker during his college back to — that when people career. It wasn’t until this sea-think about us, they think son that Smith found stability about us as being a tough on the field, when Irish coach team — guys who aren’t going Brian Kelly declared early on to stop, guys who are disci-Smith would have only one plined, and just guys you real-position on the gridiron. ly don’t want to go up against 
“He never would be an out-for four quarters.” side linebacker in our system,” Smith said he feels bitter-Kelly said during spring prac-sweet about coming back next tices. “He’s always been a year. He is certainly excited, safety. If he can’t play safety, and has high hopes for the fall Hendersonville, in their timid freshman to the leader area. he can’t play. It was pretty season, but many of his fellow shared home state. of our defense and a guy who “Obviously we haven’t won easy for that one.” teammates from the class of In addition to trips home everyone respects and wants as many games as we thought 
Just as Smith’s position on 2011 will not be returning. with the boys, Smith recalled to be around,” Gallup said. we would,” he said. “But at the football field has flip -He reflected on how he has memories from summers spent “For a guy who is so violent on least for me, there’s always flopped back and forth become close at Notre the field, he is the opposite off next year.” between safety and linebacker, with all of his Dame. To the field. He likes golf, cars, Smith’s football career and finally settled this season, teammates escape the playing Madden with friends, began 13 years ago when he his hairstyle has changed dra-by spending “[Harrison Smith has] heat and investing and anything was in third grade. He went on matically over the years as so much time always been a safety. If he s u m m e r Tennessee-related. a hiatus the following year in well. After keeping his hair together on school, Smith “He’s my best friend so I order to play competitive soc­
can’t play safety, he can’t 
short and tidy in high school, and off the and team-know a lot about him, and he’s cer instead. It was during this 
play. It was pretty easy
Smith decided to grow it out in field over the mates often definitely the most loyal and time that Smith’s passion for college. years. for that one.” enjoyed trips trustworthy person I know.” football became apparent. 
By fall of his sophomore Smith par-to nearby Beyond football, Smith looks “My mom loves to tell the year, his eyes were hardly visi-ticularly said lakes. toward other future opportu-story,” he says. “During that 
Brian Kelly 
ble beneath his bangs. The fol-he cherishes “One sum-nities he would like to pursue. football season I would wear 
Irish coach
lowing year, this problem was m e m o r i e s mer a bunch A management entrepreneur-my helmet and all my pads, remedied when his hair was from the two of us went to ship major in the Mendoza even though I wasn’t playing. I long enough to part down the times he Six Flags in School of Business, he hopes used to dress up in all the gear middle, no longer impairing brought back teammates with Chicago,” he said. “It was me, to someday own his own busi-because I missed it. I’d go out his vision. His long hair him to his home in Tennessee Barry [Gallup], Sergio ness. in the yard and pretend I was became a favorite subject during breaks. [Brown], Raeshon [McNeil] “I’ve always wanted to own playing in a game, playing among friends and media Smith had the opportunity to and Darrin Walls.” a bar and grill with my broth-against the trees. I would hit alike, until Smith decided to introduce his classmates, Many of the Notre Dame er, Garrett,” he said. the trees and run around them cut it during the winter of his including then-quarterback players consider Smith among Smith recognized the out-as if they were players. When junior year. Jimmy Clausen, running back their closest friends, even out-standing academic opportuni-the next season came around, 
These days, Smith sports a Armando Allen, linebacker side of football. ties Notre Dame offers as one I had to play.” buzz cut. Brian Smith and receiver “He’s my best friend,” senior of the many factors that con-He’s played ever since, and 
“I just got sick of it,” Smith Duval Kamara, to his home as tight end Mike Ragone said of tributed to his decision to plans to continue, in a fifth said. “It was too long, took too well as friends of his at the his defensive counterpart. “He leave Tennessee for Indiana. season at Notre Dame next long to dry.” University of Tennessee. He loves me.” The University of Tennessee, fall. 
Perhaps, however, he just has also spent time with Ragone and Smith both look along with other SEC schools These past four years Smith became tired of everyone Golden Tate, of back fondly on memories of competed for Harrison’s has experienced a variety of 
Halloween during their sopho-enrollment in their football changes — changes in field 
more year at Notre Dame in program when he was in high position, hairstyles and coach-
which they dressed up in cos-school. ing staff. 
tumes together — Smith as But then he visited Notre Next year, Smith hopes to 
“Shaggy,” complete with the Dame. witness even more changes, as 
appropriate hair-do, and “I just felt at home. he is determined to play a 
Ragone as “Scooby-Doo.” Everything about the school, strong role in raising the 
Close friend and roommate the way the team acted togeth-Notre Dame football team to a 
Barry Gallup, a fifth-year sen-er, how close they all were more formidable status in the 
ior wide receiver, has much to with one another; all of this 2011 season. 
say about Smith. helped me decide,” he said. 
“He is the classic story of a Has it lived up to his expec-Contact Blair Chemidlin at 
kid who’s transformed from a tations? Yes — except in one bchemidl@nd.edu 



CHRIS STEWART 

Law school simply another challenge for Stewart 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Article 2.6.4 of the Notre Dame Law School’s academic code strongly discourages first-year students from any employment, due to the “aca­demic rigor 
of the required cur-in the fall prior to his sopho­more year. 
He played in just six games before cementing himself as a starter. He has started 31 of his 37 career games, includ­ing every game he has played in the last three seasons, and has started more games than 
any other 
off ensive player. 

riculum,” but it doesn’t say a n y t h i n g  “I’m defnitely invested. I’m not giving up on my  B e i n g t h e most experi­enced mem- 
a b o u t  f i r s t - football career. Law  b e r  o f  t h e  
year students starting for a D i v i s i o n I  school is second to football in my mind,  offense is not w i t h o u t i t s d u t i e s ,  
football pro- because I’ve been at this  Stewart said.  
gram. O f f e n s i v e l i n e m a n  longer and it’s the more imminent thing.”  “It brings a l o t m o r e responsibili- 
Chris Stewart  ty, culpabili­ 
could be set- Chris Stewart  ty, everything  
t i n g a n e w precedent.  senior offensive tackle  like that,” he s a i d .  
S t e w a r t ,  a  “Whether it’s  
f i f t h -y e a r  s p o k e n  o r  
p l a y e r  w h o  n o t ,  p e o p l e  

graduated from Notre Dame look up to you, guys look up in three and a half years, is to you, coaches expect you to the first Irish player and the be there for guys after hours Football Bowl Series’ only or on the field, all kinds of active player enrolled in law stuff. You really have to school. focus. And with so much 
But school has far from dis-going on in your own life, be tracted him from his final able to focus on people too, year at Notre Dame. because at the end of the day 
“I’m definitely invested. I’m that’s what it’s about.” not giving up on my football Of course, Stewart does career,” he said. “Law school have a good amount to focus is second to football in my on. mind, because I’ve been at He is enrolled in 12 credit this longer and it’s the more hours, which he said is the imminent thing. equivalent to 18 or 21 under­
“It’s easy to stay focused graduate hours. because this is my last time He wakes up at 7 a.m. most around.” mornings for homework or a 
Stewart, by far the biggest workout. From there, he’s in member of the team at six-class until one. Preparation foot -five and 351 pounds, for football practice starts at came to Notre Dame as a two, and players are usually defensive tackle but did not done between 6 and 7 p.m. play as a freshman. He After three or four hours of switched to the offensive line studying, Stewart heads to bed, where he aims for seven hours of sleep a night. 
“Then I get up and do it all over again,” he said. 
Neither his football friends nor his law school buddies can grasp his lifestyle, he said. 
“Everybody thinks I’ m crazy,” Stewart said. “I’ve definitely gotten that. It’s cool, though. It’ll pay off in the long run.” 
In fact, it already has. Stewart graduated in 2009 with an honors degree in his­tory, with a self-designed con­centration in Caribbean Studies. He was an ESPN First -Team Academic All ­District honoree in 2009, and is an academic all-district selection again this year. Additionally, the National Football Foundation chose him as a National Scholar-Athlete — a designation that comes with an $18,000 schol­arship and puts him in the running for the William V. Campbell Trophy, which hon­ors the best scholar-athlete in the country. 
Fifth -year senior Barry Gallup, Jr., also an academic all-district selection, said the two joke about one day start­ing a business together. 
“We’re supposed to keep it a secret but he and I are talking about going into business sometime,” Gallup said. “I’ll run the business side and he’ll handle the legal part. He’s obviously an unbeliev­able kid, and a kid that every­one should look up to.” 
The name of the business would reference their size dif­ference — Gallup is listed at 5-foot -11 and 190 pounds 
— but the two have yet to dis­cuss what it would do. “Make money somehow,” 
Gallup said. But aside from jokes, Stewart tries to keep his foot-and one other special studies ball and law school lives sep-law course, he took the LSAT. arate as much as possible. “Anyone who’s in law school 



“I’ve evolved this rule that I would tell you, unless they’re don’t study a genius, that Friday or that test [is 
Saturday,” he s a i d . “ T h a t ’s t i m e s t r i c t l y d e v o t e d f o r  “Law school is a great career, you can always come back to it. The pro  terrible],” he said. “It’s one of the tough­est tests I’ve  
f o o t b a l l , f o r final prepara­t i o n s f o r t h e  aspect, you really can’t come back to it.”  ever taken.” D u r i n g t h e a d m i s s i o n s  
g a m e .  S o  I  p r o c e s s ,  h e  
tak e  a  hi atus  Chris Stewart  w a s  a s k e d  
f r o m t h a t Friday after I  senior offensive tackle  about his next s t e p , a n d h e  
leave the law  a n s w e r e d  
school to that  h o n e s t l y :  

Sunday. It’s better to have Football would come before 100 percent focus on football law school. for 48 hours.” “Law school is a great 
That much of a break could career, you can always come leave him at a disadvantage, back to it,” he said. “The pro so he has to work even harder aspect, you really can’t come after each game weekend. back to it.” 
“Sunday and Monday, the With nearly one year of law days when we don’t have as school done, Stewart will much going on here, I really focus on his goal of getting to have to buckle down and the NFL — after this season is study and catch up,” he said. over. “So I’m kind of playing catch “Right now I’m going to up the whole time, but that focus on ending the season in works way better than bring-a good way,” he said. “… I ing it on the road, trying to want to be here as long as figure out complex ideas on a possible as a Notre Dame bus or on a plane. That’s not football player.” smart.” However, he made sure his 
And while Stewart carried a intention of leaving school to 
3.536 grade point average as go to the pros would not hurt an undergrad, including a his law school application. 
3.834 in his final semester, he “I made it very obvious that won’t have any idea about his it’s my goal to come back here law school grades until the and finish,” he said. “Law end of the semester. school is only three years and 
“[There are] no midterms. I kind of have a year under We have take-home practice my belt anyway. So it’s not exams, and the whole grade that big of a deal to come is based on a test at the end back and spend two more 
of the semester, ” he said. years to get a degree. That’s “One four-hour test basically not bad at all. I’ve been in determines your whole school for like 10 years grade.” straight, even summers, so a 
After graduation, Stewart break will be needed. took a year of graduate class-“And I’ll have a chance to es, including a few law class-focus on football.” es, before deciding to apply to law school. In spring 2009, Contact Laura Myers at while enrolled in a torts class lmyers2@nd.edu 

CHRISTOPHER GURRIES 

Two snaps last season highlight engineer’s career 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
On a campus filled with indi­viduals chasing career goals while performing community service and living active social lives, there may be no person on campus more well-rounded than senior receiver Chris Gurries. 
Gurries’ journey as a college football player began four years ago, when he turned down offers from several Division III and FCS schools, including Harvard and Wesleyan, to accept a partial academic schol­arship to Notre Dame. 
“My family was extremely supportive. They were actually the ones who really prodded me to walk on,” Gurries said. “My dad put some of my film togeth­er, and we sent it in the summer before I got here. They set up a tryout for me, and I was able to make the team.” 
While Gurries has seen limited game action in his four years, he has had some memorable moments. 
“Last year, I played two snaps in the home opener against Nevada, with my family and about half of my hometown looking on,” said Gurries, who attended Bishop Manogue High School in Reno, Nev. 
Memories of playing in Notre Dame Stadium may be lasting, but more important to Gurries are the strong relationships and lifelong friendships that he has developed along the way. 
“The best part of being on the team is just being around the guys,” Gurries said. “There’s a real sense of family.” 
In particular, Gurries believes that he and his fellow walk-ons share a unique bond. 
“The life of a walk-on is a unique experience. It’s good to have other people in the same boat as you,” he said. “We call ourselves the Walk-on Players Union, the WOPU Nation. We keep each other motivated, keep each other’s spirits high, and we’re really tight on and off the field.” 
Another special part of that relationship, according to Gurries, is the older walk-ons helping out the younger players who may have the same issues. One player who really influ­enced him was fellow walk-on and fan favorite Mike Anello, a 2009 graduate. 
“I really looked up to Anello when he was here,” Gurries said. “We were both in Keough Hall, and he would give me advice all the time.” 
Off the field, Gurries is just as dynamic as he is on it, due to graduate in May with a degree in chemical engineering. 
“Chemical engineering proba­bly wasn’t the easiest route to go, especially with the time commitment football requires and the workload of chemical engineering,” he said. “As you could imagine, football and studies led to a lot of late nights. The key was to stay on top of my work and not procrastinate too much.” 


With that degree Gurries plans to start dental school in July, and aspires to be an oral surgeon. 
“Hopefully I’ll be going to the University of the Pacific. They can’t tell me officially yet, but I’ve been told that I’m pretty much in,” he said. “I want to become a dentist because I enjoy working with people and helping people, and it allows me to provide for a family.” 
Gurries looks forward to that family most of all, and his upcoming marriage to fiancée Sarah in July will be the first part of it. 
“I love her to death and I think she is the most beautiful girl. We met in high school, and we just had our five-year anniversary on Nov. 5. She is in nursing school in Salt Lake City and we plan to get married shortly after she graduates in June in Carmel, Calif., at the Carmel Mission,” he said. “We both cannot wait for the four-year long-distance relationship to finally run its course.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 

By KELSEY MANNING Sports Writer  goals. A Connecticut native and a third generation Domer, Smith  once he got into Notre Dame, there was no looking back. “The first time I was ever at  started seriously considering the Navy during his junior year of high school.  he is entering the Navy after graduation. Smith was recently selected to one of the Navy’s  
dreamed about going to Notre  the Stadium I was four years  “I looked at Annapolis and I  more elite programs, Explosive  
As  a  business  marketing  Dame since his youth. And with  old. … There is a picture of me  really liked it, but I ultimately  Ordinance Disposal (EOD), and  
major, a Naval officer in train- a  mom  that  swam  at  Notre  and my sister in the old stadi­ decided Notre Dame was where  will be training for that.  
ing and a  safety  on  the Irish  Dame and a grandfather who  um before they redid it,” Smith  I wanted to be,” Smith said. “I  “As long  as  I  can  continue  
defense,  the  life  of  senior  walked onto the football team,  said. “I remember my first  figured I could get the best of  along this training pipeline,  
Tommy Smith is  a  balancing  Irish athletics are in his blood.  game here when I was in fifth  both  worlds  and successful- 
act. Smith does not view his  Smith’s first love is hockey, and  grade we beat Arizona State,  being able to  ly  make  it  
busy schedule as a burden, however, but rather as the ful­fillment of several lifetime  several Division III schools in the New England area recruit­ed him for both sports. But  and even since before then I’ve always wanted to come here. And I always knew if I got in  go to Notre Dame and be a part of the  “Ever since I thought about the idea to walk  through the next two years of training and  
and came here I would want to try to play football, and just check my goals off one by one if I could.”  Navy, so was able get what wanted  I to I in  on, I thought about how much of an honor it would be to be part of the  school, then I would like to stay in the Navy for longer  
That he did. As a freshman Smith started out on the Stanford interhall football, which went undefeated and  both areas.” F o o t b a l l and ROTC have all but  tradition, to line up against these guys in practice every day.”  than the initial four-year com­mitment, possi­bly 10 to 15  
won the championship game in  d o m i n a t e d  years,” Smith  
the Stadium. From there he walked onto the Notre Dame football team the spring of his  Smith’s time at Notre Dame, yet he  Tommy Smith senior safety  said. Even if Smith does success- 
sophomore year, fulfilling a life- has managed  fully complete  
long dream of being a part of  to  strike  a  EOD training,  
the Irish.  comfortable balance between  studying business law at Notre  
“Football has been great,”  the two.  Dame has also made him con- 
Smith  said.  “Ever  since  I  “It’s definitely not easy to bal­ sider the possibility of attend- 
thought about the idea to walk  ance  the  two,  but  I  really  ing law school after his time in  
on, I thought about how much  appreciate everything  that  the Navy. Another option is a  
of an honor it would be to be  Navy ROTC has done for me to  post-military  career  in the  
part of the tradition, to line up  play football and vice versa,”  United States Secret Service.  
against these guys in practice  Smith said. “I have to do a lot  Whatever Smith decides, he is  
every day, see how hard they  of the legwork but together we  grateful for his entire Notre  
work and see if I could pick up  get things done. I have to miss  Dame experience.  
on their work ethic. It’s really  a lot of things for ROTC and I  “Everything has been worth  
helped me, not only in terms of  really appreciate them letting  it,” he said. “I don’t get a lot of  
work ethic, but I’ve gotten in  me  do that, especially since  sleep some nights but I’m ready  
much better shape physically,  they’re paying for my scholar- to go the next morning. I have  
and it has made me a mentally  ship.  …  I wouldn’t be where I  no regrets at all because both  
stronger person.”  am  right  now  without either  [ROTC and football] have been  
Along with the tremendous  one of them.”  great for me.”  
DAN JACOBS/The Observer  commitment Smith has made to  Smith said he has no regrets  
Senior safety Tommy Smith not  only walked onto the football  football, Navy ROTC takes up a  about taking on so much during  Contact Kelsey Manning at  
team, but also has been involved  with Navy ROTC for four years.  great deal of his time. Smith  his time here, especially since  kmannin3@nd.edu  

TOMMY SMITH 

Football experience complemented by time in ROTC 

Utes, coming off ugly loss, pose tough test for ND 
By DOUGLAS FARMER Sports Editor  to move forward and not let a ha n g o v e r af f e c t us , ” W h i t tin g h a m s a i d . “ T h a t  
would be the most disappoint- 
Two weeks ago Notre Dame  ing thing, if this affects two  
may have been upset 28-27 by  games.”  
Tulsa, but the argument could  Even after suffering the 40­ 
be made that No. 14 Utah’s  point loss, Utah enters Notre  
loss last week was even more  Dame Stadium as the favorites  
devastating for the Utes.  — a role Kelly does not seem  
Utah (8-1), then ranked No.  to mind the Utes having.  
5 , h o s t e d N o . 3 T C U f o r a  “What a great opportunity  
Mountain West Conference  for seniors and everybody in  
showdown, only to be blown  our program to get back on  
o u t  b y  t h e  t h e  win n i n g  
H o r n e d  F r o g s  ways by beat­ 
47-7. Whether t h e U t e s a r e  “What a great  i n g a g r e a t football team,”  
r e e l i n g f r om t h a t r e s u l t o r not, Irish coach Brian Kelly said  opportunity for seniors and everybody in our program to get back to  h e said . “ I really haven’t b een b i g on trying to draw  
h e e x p e c t s t o s e e t he sa m e h i g h -p o w e r e d Utah team fans  the winning ways by beating a great football team.”  t h os e D a v i d versus Goliath k i n d of matchups, and  
are  accustomed  I  c e rt a i n l y  
to. “Generally my experience has  Brian Kelly Irish coach  don’t see that in this game. I se e a v e ry  
b e e n  a  t e a m  good foot ball  
that has a lot of  team in Utah,  
confidence coming in, is not  and one that needs to play up  
all of the sudden going to lose  to those standards.” AP  
all of their confidence,” Kelly  Utah’s standards include a Utah quarterback Jordan Wynn unloads a pass during No. 3 TCU’s 47-7 victory over the then-No. 5  
said during  a  press confer­ 3 1 -4  r e c o rd  o v e r  t h e  l a s t Utes Saturday. The sophomore has accounted for 14 touchdowns through the air this season.  
ence Tuesday. “They are going  three seasons, including  an  
to chalk it up to, hey, we had  undefeated slate and Sugar  scores  that they have had,”  o v er l o o k i n g  N o t r e  D a m e .  just what you expect out of  
a  b a d  d a y,  l e t ’s  p u t  t ha t  Bowl victory in 2008. This  K ell y  s a i d .  “ T hey  r e a l l y  Whittingham cited both Notre  Notre Dame.  
behind us, maybe  we  don’t  s ea s on  U ta h  t o p pe d  believe in what they do offen- D a m e ’s  p r e se n t  t e a m  a n d  “When you think of Notre  
even look at the film. Let’s get  Pittsburgh 27-24 in  an  over­ sively. It’s  a  physical pres- individuals and its tradition  Dame, you think of the Four  
going on Notre Dame.”  time battle to open the  sea­ ence.  a n d  h i s t o r y  as  fo r mid a b l e  Ho r s e m e n ,  K n ut e  R o c k n e ,  
A c c o rd i ng  t o  w ha t  U t e s  son, and hardly looked back  “So I think what I take away  opponents this weekend.  ‘Rudy’ the movie.  …  The tra­ 
coach Kyle Whittingham said  b e f or e  f a c i n g  T C U .  I n  t h e  from Utah is  a  personality.  “They have  a  tremendous  d i t i o n ,  t h e  g u y s  t h e y  h a d  
i n  a  p r es s c o n f e re n c e  t w o  s ev e n  g a me s  b e t w e e n  They clearly have a personali­ receiver in [junior] Michael  t h e r e  — J o e M o nt a n a , J o e  
days after the defeat, Utah  Pittsburgh and TCU, the Utes  ty  on  the football field. Very  Floyd. … They have good size  Theismann. That’s everything  
planned  to  do just  as  Kelly  scored 56 or more points four  confident about what they can  u p  f r o nt a n d  g o o d  si z e  on  t h at  e mb o d i e s  w h a t  N o t r e  
expected.  times, only scoring less than  do, and they have exhibited  defense,” Whittingham said.  Dame is.”  
“By this afternoon  we  will  30 points once.  t h a t  o n  a  v e r y  c on s i s te n t  “ [ S o ph o m o r e  l i n e ba c k e r ]  
h a ve  t he  f ilm  [ o f  t h e  TCU  “It’s  a  confident group,  cer­ basis.”  Manti Te’o is  a  big, physical  Contact Douglas Farmer at  
game] watched, and it’s time  tainly. You look at some of the  Yet that personality is not  presence in the middle. It’s  dfarmer1@nd.edu  




Helmets held high 
The senior class of 2011 has experienced a trying four 
years of football at Notre Dame. A 3-9 freshman year, los­ing three out of four games against Navy and numerous last-second, heartbreaking losses are just the tip of the iceberg when describing the gridiron hardships that this 
senior class has gone through. Despite the losses and a coaching change before their final year at Notre Dame, the members of the original class have held strong and seem intent on finishing their career on a positive note. No matter the result against Utah, the seniors will stand tall with the rest of their graduating class and proclaim words that have kept them going strong through it all: 
“And our hearts forever, praise thee Notre Dame. And our hearts forever, love thee Notre Dame.” 



Clockwise from top: Senior nose tackle Ian Williams lines up against a Navy team which defeated the Irish for the first time since 1963 on Nov. 3, 2007; Senior wide receiver Duval Kamara catches his fourth touchdown pass of the season against Duke on Nov. 17, 2007; Senior linebacker Kerry Neal looks for a tackle in Notre Dame’s Sept. 13, 2008, victory over the Wolverines; Senior running back Armando Allen looks for daylight in a Nov. 21, 2009,loss to UConn; Senior running back Robert Hughes tackled in Notre Dame’s Oct. 17,2009,loss to USC. 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 
HEAD T
Record: 4-5 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
First season at 
Irish Offense vs. Utes Defense 
Notre Dame 



career record: 
175-62-2 
record at ND: 
4-5 
against Utah: 
0-0 





Douglas 
Farmer 
Sports Editor 

At this point, Notre Dame’s back is very much against the wall. At 4-5, the Irish need, absolutely need, two wins to qualify for a bowl game. 
Unfortunately, one of those wins will not come this week. There is simply no conceivable way a freshman quarter­back throwing to a cast of replacements can lead a stumbling Notre Dame team past the high-powered Utes. 
Sure, Utah is coming off an ugly loss. Sure, Notre Dame is at home. So the Irish have some things going for them, but those things don’t usually add up to a saving value. That takes time, which against the wall, the Irish don’t have. 
FINAL SCORE: Utah 35, Notre Dame 14 

Matt Gamber 
Sports Writer 
How can you predict a 4-5 Notre Dame team to beat a Utah squad that was an outside contender to play for the national title less than a week ago? How can you think the Irish, led by a freshman quar­terback making his first start, can over­come the absence of three of their most explosive offensive threats? How can you rationalize that a Notre Dame team that just lost to Navy and Tulsa can win its first Senior Day game since 2007? 
I don’t have an answer to those ques­tions, but I have to believe that for one day, the Irish at least have a chance to put it together and send their seniors out with a win. Just once. Just maybe. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 23, Utah 17 Eric Prister 

Associate Sports Editor 
Once again, on paper this game seems quite cut and dry. Utah is the superior team in almost every facet of the game, and that advantage is exponentially increased by the amount of injuries suffered by Notre Dame starters. With Crist, Allen, Riddick, Rudolph, Williams and Calabrese out, Notre Dame should have trouble moving and stopping the ball. 
But this Irish senior class has been through a lot. I think the losingest class in Notre Dame history has one game left in them. Why shouldn’t it come on their Senior Day? 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 24, Utah 23 



Utes

O HEAD Utah 
Record: 8-1 AP: 15 Coaches: 15 
Sixth season at Utah 

Utes Offense vs. Irish Defense 



career record: 
48-17 
record at Utah: 
48-17 
against ND: 








Sam Werner 
Sports Writer 

Utah may have been exposed as a top-
After a painful, painful loss to five team against TCU last week, but the 
No. 5 TCU last weekend, Utah will Utes are still a legitimate top-25 squad. 
come in to Notre Dame Stadium Even worse for the Irish, they're a talented 
with something to prove. Not only team with a chip on its shoulder after get-
will the Utes win over this desper­ting embarrassed a week ago. Given Notre 
ately depleted Irish squad, they Dame's injury woes and the fact that fresh-
will run up the score just to show man quarterback Tommy Rees will be 
they can. making his first career start it would be 
I hope I’m wrong, and the senior 
easy to see the Irish fold early. Call it a gut class plays with the emotion of a 
feeling,butIcan'tshakethenotionthatthis team that has been battered for 
class will draw more from the emotions of way too long. 
SeniorDaythanpreviousclasses. Itmaybe But really, the only difference 
wishful thinking, but Rees did look impres-between this game and the past 
siveinhisfirststart.TheIrishmightnotwin two senior days is that we're 
this one, but they'll be in it until the end. expecting it this time. 
FINAL SCORE: Utah 34, Notre Dame 27. FINAL SCORE: Utah 44, Notre Dame 27 





A season of streaks 
The Irish Class of 2011 opened its final season with a convincing 23-12 victory over Purdue before spiralling into a three-game losing streak which included last-minute losses to both Michigan and Michigan State. With a 1-3 record, the Irish faced the prospect of a loss season before a three-game winning streak raised their record to 4-3. The winning streak included a 44-20 rout of Western Michigan on Oct. 16. Notre Dame barely had time to enjoy that rout before facing Navy at the New Meadowlands Stadium in East Rutherford, N.J. Navy took control of the game early, and for the third time in four years beat Notre Dame. The following week, the Irish fell to Tulsa at home. 
With possibly only three games left in their careers at Notre Dame, the seniors will need two wins to reach a bowl game. 


Counter-clockwise from top: Seniors Robert Hughes, Armando Allen and Emeka Nwankwo, from left, sing the Alma Mater; senior cornerback Gary Gray prepares for a play during Notre Dame’s 37-14 loss to Stanford on Sept. 25; seniors Ethan Johnson and Brian Smith, from right, leap in an attempt to block a Pittsburgh field goal; senior running back Robert Hughes gains an extra yard during Notre Dame’s 44-20 victory over Western Michigan on Oct. 16; senior safety Harrison Smith attempts a tackle against Michigan State. 
ARMANDO ALLEN 

Running back helps Irish in every possible way 
fracture in his hand. 
By LAURA MYERS 
But Irish head coach Brian 
Sports Writer 
Kelly admitted before Notre Dame played Michigan that he 

Editor’s note: This article wasn’t sold on Allen coming first appeared in the Sept. 17 into the season. edition of The Observer. “The way college football is 
set up we can’t have contact 

“You got my hat!” Armando with him all summer long, so Allen exclaimed as he entered you have a two-month period the Loftus Center for a photo where you don’t even talk to shoot with The Observer him much,” running backs Tuesday. The senior running coach Tim Hinton said. “It back grabbed the small green takes a little bit to bring out hat and placed it, at a slight the real personalities when angle, on his head, ready for you just don’t know each his close-up. other very well.” 
Allen donned the lep -Especially with sophomore rechaun hat in celebration Cierre Wood coming up quick-
a f t e r  N o t r e  ly behind him,  
Dame’s win in  A l l e n  h a d  t o  
t h e H a w a i i Bowl on Dec. 26, 2008, and turned it into  “I know that I owe Notre Dame so much, for allowing me to come  prove himself all over again. “It was just p r a c t i c i n g  
a p o s t -g a m e ritual in 2009. “ We a l l  here and take part in something special, so I  h a r d d a y, ” s a i d .  e v e r y A l l e n “ T h a t  
laughed, since  really want to go out on  was one of the  
h e’s a b o u t 5’5” on a good  a good note.”  c o n c e r n s w e had, and I just  
d a y, ” s a i d s o p h o m o r e wide receiver  Armando Allen senior running back  took it under m y i n i t i a t i v e to go out there  
Theo Riddick,  a n d  w o r k  
a  former part  hard and give  

of the running back corps it all I had every day in prac­with Allen, who is actually tice.” listed at 5-foot-10. “He’d get The competition only helped us all laughing and cracking both of them, Allen said. up. It was a good joke.” “That’s always positive,” 
But two games into his sen-Allen said. “When you look at ior year, Allen isn’t kidding our group, from me to Cierre around anymore. to Robert Hughes to Jonas 
“Some people joke about me Gray, we all know that we being short, the size of a lep-have a great amount of talent rechaun,” he said. “But I do it and we all push each other. in respect to Notre Dame. We use it as motivation. We That’s my way to say I respect all know we’ve got great Notre Dame. I tip my hat to backs here.” it.” But through his work ethic, 
the coaches got to know Allen Going to work and made the decision to keep 
That is not to say that Allen him in the starting spot. hasn’t been taking his role at “He really does a good job Notre Dame seriously up to of understanding and learn-now. He was the leading rush-ing, taking notes in the meet­er for Notre Dame in 2008 ing room, and understanding and 2009, with 585 and 697 the game plan when he gets yards, respectively. His mark on the field,” Hinton said. of 697 last season came in “And he’s practiced hard. The just eight games, as he missed young guy has practiced two games with a sprained tremendously hard. ankle and another two with a “He really has played the game with a passion and physicality and he’s done a nice job in practice of doing the same thing,” Hinton said. “He’s a very consistent per­former. He brings his lunch pail with him every day and goes to work.” 
Racking up yardage 
Through the season’s first two games, Allen had a heavy workload. He ran the ball 33 times for 182 yards and a touchdown, caught two pass­es for nine yards and returned two punts for 47 yards. 
Allen has shown the same versatility throughout his career. His 119 career recep­tions eclipsed Darius Walker’s record of 107 career receptions by a running back. 
“I think it’s really just being in the right place at the right time,” Allen said. “Gaining that trust from the coaches.” 
Hinton said there’s only one way for Notre Dame to take advantage of Allen’s many abilities. 
“Keep giving him the ball,” Hinton said. “That would be the best thing we can do is keep giving him the ball, get him in space as much as we can. He’s been an elusive guy. He’s been making guys miss. We’re certainly going to work very, very hard to get as many touches as he can have. And his job is to hang onto the ball and perform every time he gets that opportunity. 
“I think he will.” 
Allen would like to get another opportunity like the one he had in Notre Dame’s 2009 win over Michigan State, when he took the snap in the wildcat formation and con­nected with former Irish receiver Robby Parris for a five-yard touchdown pass. 
“I wouldn’t mind,” he said. “That’s definitely something that’s always been in the back of my head. I’d like to get a chance to do it.” 
In fact, Allen has just one feat left to accomplish: a long, breakaway run. Though he runs for a dependable aver-age of 4.6 yards per carry, his career long is 30 yards, a mark he set on Oct. 2 against Boston College. 


“It’s always good to have a great breakaway run,” he said. “I think growing up, being a senior, you take everything for what it’s worth, but it always felt good.” 
That 2010 is his last time through adds a sense of urgency to his season. 
“I do feel like I’m running out of time,” Allen said. “I know that I owe Notre Dame so much, for allowing me to come here and take part in something special, so I really want to go out on a good note.” 
Leading by example 
Allen’s seniority has its upside, though, in an increased leadership role on the team. The coaches select­ed him to be a captain for Saturday’s game against Michigan. 
“It was a great honor to go out there and be a captain and lead this team against Michigan,” Allen said. “It says a lot about what I’ve been doing here and to me it was a great honor to go out there and show that I can do this and I can be in the right place for my teammates.” 
Despite his penchant for wearing leprechaun hats, Allen is usually not showy, Hinton said. 
“He’s a quiet, unassuming personality,” Hinton said. “Some guys are real flashy, with flamboyant personalities. Armando really doesn’t come across that way. He’s quiet with leadership behind the scenes.” 

His early struggles to prove himself made the role even more special, Allen said. 
“I’m a more lead by exam­ple type guy,” he said. “I started off shaky coming in with the new coaches but right now I understand that I’m here to do whatever I can and just lead by example.” 
Hinton assessed Allen’s leadership in the same way. 
“Leadership comes in many styles,” Hinton said. “His work ethic and his on-the­field toughness have been the things he’s really displayed.” 
Being a leader is even more vital this week, Allen said, as the team tries to shake off a heartbreaking loss and move on to its first road game. 
“I think it’s very, very important,” Allen said. “The biggest thing is just to go out there and make sure that everybody has forgotten about last week and is moving on to this week, that we’ve got a new challenge in front of us.” 
At this point, Allen is seri­ous about continuing in the same way he has started the season, being an example for his teammates with hard work in practice and perform­ance when it counts. 
“We’ve been very pleased with what he’s doing,” Hinton said. “Obviously his challenge right now is to do it consis­tently for the next ten weeks. That right now is the biggest challenge that Armando has ahead of him. He can’t be self-satisfied. He’s got to be hungry to be better tomorrow, the next day and the next day until the season ends.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

BRIAN SMITH 

Emotions, two TDs define linebacker’s four years 
Michigan and Boston College, 
By ERIC PRISTER 
doing anything I can to help my 
Associate Sports Editor 
team win. It’s just a special feel­ing.” 

In his player bio on UND.com, That first score came in the first word used to describe Smith’s freshman year against senior linebacker Brian Smith is Boston College. He intercepted emotional, and it is that emo-Boston College quarterback tion that has enabled Smith to Matt Ryan — now with the become the active leader in Atlanta Falcons — and returned games played for Notre Dame. it 25 yards for the score. 
“When I’m out on the field, I “One thing I’ll always remem­embrace the emotion, the ener-ber is seeing [former Irish gy from the crowd,” Smith said. coach Charlie Weis] put his arm “I’m very passionate about what around me, because me and I do, and so to be described as coach Weis, we had conversa­emotional lets people know, tions, but you never really saw ‘Yeah, that’s real me on the real emotion from him,” Smith field.’ You just have to have the said. “But when I scored that emotional advantage, that even first touchdown, you saw that if you aren’t, that you play like real emotion from him on the you are the baddest on the field sidelines, and that’s the one and nobody can stop you. thing that stuck out to me.” Having the kind of attitude The beginning of Smith’s makes you a better player and career at Notre Dame was a so that gives you that edge tenuous one, as he had already 
against  the  committed  to  
p e r s o n you’re going  “The best advice I got was  Iowa when he was offered a  
against.”  ‘What can Notre Dame do  s c h o l a r s h i p  
Smith has played in all but three  for you? That was a dream school which can  from the Irish, just two weeks before signing  
g  a  m  e  s  do  day. For Smith,  
th rou gh o ut his Irish career, and  something for you which Iowa can’t.’ Hearing that  that was when the real deci­sion process  
has not missed a game since his sopho­ from my father, I had to make the choice to come here.”  began. “The decision process was kind of a rocky  
more season.  one  because I  
He leads all  Brian Smith  was committed  
active play­ers in tackles  senior linebacker  to go to Iowa for about eight  
with 180 and  months during  
has  added  my senior year  

two touchdowns to his résumé of high school, and then all of a throughout his career. sudden, two weeks before sign­
“I can’t even explain [the feel-ing day, Notre Dame offers me,” ing of scoring a defensive touch-he said. “It kind of put me at a down],” Smith said. “My first crossroads because it was like, touchdown, I didn’t know what ‘If Notre Dame didn’t want me was happening. I told everyone then, why do they want me that I felt like I was in someone now?’ And I kind of had a mind else’s body watching it through block about it. But then the best their eyes, because it was such advice I got was, ‘What can an adrenaline high, being out Notre Dame do for you? That there. It was just crazy, being was a dream school which can able to get into the endzone and do something for you which get points for the team, espe-Iowa can’t.’ Hearing that from cially against teams like my father, I had to make the 
YUE WU/The Observer 

Senior linebacker Brian Smith attempts a diving tackle of Michigan quarterback Denard Robinson 
during Notre Dame’s 28-24 loss on Sept. 11. 
choice to come here.”  attitude was not easy for Smith.  
Smith’s career did not get any  He  was  moved from outside  
easier when he arrived on cam- linebacker in a 3-4 defense to  
pus. The Irish went 3-9 during  inside  linebacker  in  a  4-3  
his freshman season, and have  defense during his sophomore  
not recorded a winning season  and junior years. Smith said  
in his four years as a member of  that changing positions was dif­ 
the football program, but Smith  ficult, but in the end gave him a  
said he has not been disheart­ greater understanding of the  
ened by the ups and downs that  game.  
Notre Dame has endured.  “The process changing from  
“Coming to Notre Dame is  outside to inside was very hard,  
expecting to be a part of excel- because as a middle linebacker,  
lence,” he said. “Even though  you  have  to  
our  football  seasons  haven’t  know  what  

been what everyone has wanted everyone is lessons he 
“Because we’re Notre

them to be, I still feel like I’ve doing on the needs both on 
Dame, even though we

been a part of excellence, being field,” he said. “I the field and around these guys and these give a lot of haven’t done as well, off. coaches. Living a first-class credit to [former “There have 
we’re still in the 

championship lifestyle will Irish defensive just been a lot 
national spotlight.” 

bring championship results. In c o o r d i n a t o r of guys who years to come, everyone in the John Tenuta], have played the world will be able to see that.” because he Brian Smith game here and Keeping that championship taught me a lot are still 
senior linebacker 


about football and that, with my coaches now, [defensive coordinator Bob] Diaco and [Irish coach Brian] Kelly, I feel like there’s nothing on the football field that I don’t know. So now, transitioning, I feel like I can play anywhere on the field now that I’ve played middle linebacker, because that’s the captain of the defense, making calls, adjust­ments and checks. So I feel like I can play anywhere. Wherever they stick me, I feel like I’m going to do a very good job at it.” 
Position on the field is not the only change Smith has experi­enced during his time at Notre Dame. He has played under two head coaches and three defen­sive coordinators, which can make finding a comfort zone difficult. Smith said he has used the coaching changes as a learning experience, as well. 
“It makes you not only a bet­ter player but also a better man, because in the real world you’re going to face changes, day in and day out,” he said. “Having a new staff was differ­ent, but you have to adjust. When I’m in the working world, my boss is going to change and I have to adjust to what he’s going to do. My position 
changed — one day your posi­tion in the office is going to change, and you have to make adjustments. It keeps you on your toes and keeps your edge razor-sharp, because you have to always keep a razor-sharp edge to be competitive, not only on the football field, but in life.” Smith said many people have made an impact on his life since being at Notre Dame, but coaches and former players in particular have taught him the 
around,” he 
said. “Guys like 
[former Irish players] Reggie Brooks and Chris Zorich, coach Tenuta and [former defensive coordinator] Corwin Brown, that have played the system and have taught me since I was a young pup in the system — those are guys who I always look to and try to keep in touch with because they are the roots of the man I want to become in the real world.” Despite a career full of changes, successes and failures on the field, Smith said he still believes that he made the right choice in coming to Notre Dame. 
“[Our class] has seen it all,” he said. “Living a first-class, championship lifestyle is always number one for me, and I feel like, even through all these wins and losses, the loss column especially, that I’ve still been a part of excellence. Because we’re Notre Dame, even though we haven’t done as well, we’re still in the national spotlight. Because we are Notre Dame, we are known for our excel­lence, and so I feel like being a part of this establishment has been the biggest blessing for me.” 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 

MATT ROMINE 

Notre Dame fulfills two dreams for lineman 

By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
When many scholarship foot­ball players step on campus for the first time as a freshman, they have dreams of someday playing on Sundays. Irish sen­ior Matt Romine has realized since the start that marketing department if the NFL doesn’t work out.” 
While Romine has excelled in marketing while at Notre Dame, the football end of things has not always been so easy. In his freshman year, he played in each of the first two games before getting injured during the third. He missed the rest of his first season 

there is life after football. D e s p i t e being one of  “I fnally got the chance to get on the feld and run out of the tunnel as a  on the team. That injury, however, has opened the  
the most h i g h l y r e c r u i t e d prospects in  starter. It was great to help lead the team to a win because Pittsburgh is  door for Romine to play another season if he  
the nation coming out of Union High  one of our biggest wins this season.”  so chooses. “I medically r e d s h i r t e d  
School  in  after getting  
Tulsa, Okla.,  Matt Romine  injured after  
the 6-foot-5, 2 9 2 -p o u n d  senior offensive tackle  the game  third of my  
offensive line- f r e s h m a n  
man  said he  season,  so  I  

is always focused on academ-have the opportunity for a fifth ics. He chose Notre Dame to year,” he said. “The decision of give himself the best chance to whether I return or not will be fulfill his two dreams. made after the season is over.” 
“The main reason I came If Romine chooses to return, here was to be a business he would be one of several major and I picked marketing returning linemen on a very because I really like the shoe experienced unit, which could industry,” Romine said. “I’d be the key to an improvement like to work for Nike someday in wins and losses. and either market their shoes Injuries are not the only or work in the Nike football roadblock that Romine has department. It’s always been faced during his time at Notre my dream to work in the Nike Dame. This year, he has played under the third different offen­sive line coach the Irish have employed in four seasons. John Latina led the unit in 2007 and 2008, Frank Verducci in 2009 and Mike Elston is currently coaching the linemen. 
Romine has not used the experience as an excuse, but rather as a challenge to get better and as a valuable lesson for his future. 
“It’s taught me to adapt to anything,” Romine said. “I’ve had three offensive line coach­es in four years and they’ve all had a different style and sys­tem and want something dif­ferent. Going through all that has taught me to adapt and be ready to change for any situa­tions that arise.” 
Through it all, he has always been able to depend on the support of his family. 
“My parents have been so influential in my life,” Romine said. “I’ve been injured a lot during my four years here so relying on the support of my parents has been huge for me. They come to a lot of home games and are here for me a lot.” 
After battling through injuries and coaching changes for three years, Romine earned his first career start earlier this season against Pittsburgh. He considers it his most mem­orable moment at Notre Dame. 
“I finally got the chance to get on the field and run out of the tunnel as a starter. It was great to help lead the team to a win because Pittsburgh is one of our biggest wins this season.” 
Even if Romine opts to depart from Notre Dame fol­lowing his graduation this spring, he will leave with a very favorable outlook of his time here. 
“I didn’t realize coming in how tightly knit the Notre Dame family is,” he said. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


EMEKA NWANKWO 

Waiting only yields benefits for Florida native 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
“Good things come to those who wait” may be an overused cliché, but overused clichés are often overused for a reason: they are true. 
Senior defensive end Emeka Nwankwo can certainly argue for the validity of that phrase, after waiting in the wings several times in his career before stepping into the spotlight, with success. 
Nwankwo was a four-star recruit out of Miami Beach, Fla., who was named all-state twice at offensive line at Chaminade-Madonna Prep. But when it came time to commit to a college, he faced a difficult decision. 
“At the end of the whole process, it was either going to be Notre Dame or Florida,” Nwankwo said. “I felt that I need­ed to get out of Florida, so I thought Notre Dame was my best option.” 
Once he arrived on campus, Nwankwo had to accept several important changes in his life. While he transitioned from life at home to more independence on campus, he also had to transition from offensive line to defensive tackle on the football field. 
“Going away from home for the first time and being on your own was different, almost surreal. It was a lot of fun though, too,” Nwankwo said. “As far as football goes, the transition to defense wasn’t too difficult. I played defen­sive line in high school, so I was able to step right in day one.” 
He was also helped in this tran­sition by some older players with whom he developed a close rela­tionship early in his Notre Dame career. 
“Older guys like [defensive line­man] Trevor Laws, [linebacker] Maurice Crum, and [tight end] John Carlson really showed me the way things were done, and how to go about your business,” Nwankwo said. 
After mostly working with the scout team and slowly climbing the depth chart in his freshman year, Nwankwo was able to bust into the gameday rotation his sophomore year. 
“It was nice to start to get noticed, and the coaches start to get at you a bit more,” he said. 
That year was Nwankwo’s breakout year of sorts, as he played in seven games, and had two tackles. More promising, though was that he saw action in five of the final six games, and his stock seemed to be rising. But during his junior season last year, Nwankwo seemed to get lost in the depth chart, and did not play a snap during the season. Once again, Nwankwo was forced to lie in wait, and the experience was frustrating. 
“That was by far my worst year here,” Nwankwo said. 
Nwankwo persevered, though, and now is playing the biggest role of his career in what has become a redemptive season for him. 
“This year has been my best year here. I’ve really enjoyed it,” said Nwankwo, who has played in five games and has three tackles on the season. 
Part of the reason that this year has been so enjoyable for him is all of the fun he has off the field, especially with his friends on the team, Nwankwo said. 
“A lot of the guys on the team are really close … [Senior running back] Armando Allen, he’s my lit­tle brother,” Nwankwo said. “And [junior nose tackle] Brandon Newman, he’s the clown of the whole team. No doubt I’ll be friends with those guys for life.” 
Nwankwo and his teammates are always up for some friendly competition, as well. 
“I’m the current Notre Dame Madden king, I’m pretty much unstoppable,” he said. “I’ve got the best car on campus, too.” 
Now that his senior year is com­ing to a close, Nwankwo has begun to look back and reflect on his time here. 
“I’ll take a lot from these four years: family, brotherhood, and some good memories. Now that I think about it, I’m really going to miss this place.” 
But while it may seem to be the end of Nwankwo’s Notre Dame career, he has not yet ruled out returning for a fifth season of eli­gibility. 
“I might come back next season, but there’s a whole lot of other options,” he said. “It’s really up in the air right now.” 
Regardless of his plans for next year, Nwankwo will graduate this spring with a degree in Psychology, although he has plans in a different field. 
“My family has been really sup­portive, but football doesn’t mean that much to my parents, since they grew up in Nigeria. To them, the most important thing is get­ting that degree, and I got it,” he said. “I really want to go back for grad school, though, and get my MBA. Eventually, I plan to be in the business world.” 

Like so many other things for Nwankwo, future success is just a matter of time. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 
KERRY NEAL 

Linebacker credits family for helping him succeed 
doing everything to help give 

By ANDREW GASTELUM Sports Writer  them a better life,” Neal said. “I feel like I owe my life to  
them.”  
He began the journey  as  a  In his first three years at  
boy, and the road turned him  Notre Dame, Neal totaled 70  
into a man.  tackles and five and  a  half  
S e n i or  l i n e b a c k er  K e rr y  sacks, with most of them com- 
Neal vowed that Notre Dame  ing as a defensive end during  
has changed him into the per- his  s oph o m o re  a nd  ju nior  
son he is today,  years. But this  
admitting that  year, under the  
he  came  here  new  3-4 defen­ 
as a boy out of  “This four-year run has  s i ve  s ch e me,  
high school — albeit a 6-foot­2, 220 -po un d boy.  been great. I have really grown as a man with everything that I have  Neal made the t r a n siti on t o o uts i d e l i ne-backer almost  
“ Th i s f ou r-y e ar ru n h as been gr e at, ” N ea l sa i d . “ I  accomplished and Notre Dame has really opened my eyes up to a lot of  seamlessly. He h a s s i n ce r e c or d e d a career-high 32  
h av e g r ow n  r e a lly as a  things.”  tackles through nine games this  
m a n w ith everything that I have accom- Kerry Neal senior linebacker  s e as on , eigh t more than his p r e vio u s p e r-PAT COVENEY/The Observer  
pli sh e d  an d  sonal record of Senior linebacker Kerry Neal chases after a fumble during the season opener against Purdue on  
N o t re  D am e  2 4  t a c kle s  i n Sept. 4. He did not recover the fumble, but did record one tackle for loss in the Irish victory.  
has really opened my eyes up  his sophomore year.  
to a lot of things.”  “At first, I  was  really  nerv- But football isn’t the only  with  a  degree in sociology,  he will remember most about  
T h e  lin e b acke r  c a me  t o  ous at making the switch, but  matter that Neal has striven  from which he hopes to give  his college experience Neal  
ca mp u s  as  a  h ighl y-toute d  I worked out in the  summer  to improve in. Off the field,  back to the community if he  didn’t mention his perform- 
re cruit from Bu nn, N.C.,  a  a n d  i mpr o v ed  m y  a g i l i t y, ”  the lineback er tak es gre at  doesn’t play in the NFL.  ance on the field or putting on  
small, rural city from which  Neal said. “Now I  am  much  p r i d e  in  hi s  s t udi e s  a nd  “I’m  never  going to put  a  a  go ld  hel m e t .  R a t h e r,  h e  
Neal finds inspiration.  more  comfortable being able  asserts that the quality educa­ stop to my dreams [of playing  spoke of the friends he made  
“I pla y for my hom et o wn  to  run  in open space and  use  ti o n  w as  a  ma jor f act o r i n  in the NFL], but if that doesn’t  while playing football.  
and for all the people there  my athleticism to the team’s  coming to Notre Dame.  work out I’ll have  a  degree,”  “I  w ou ld n ’t  b e  t he  sam e  
that  are  able  to  see  me  do  advantage.”  “At Notre Dame, you can get  he said. “I love working with  without the bonds that I have  
something I love,” he said.  Th e  m o v e  t o  l i n e b a c ker  the best of both words,” said  kids and would love to give  made with all of my friends  
Of those people, Neal finds a  made Neal realize the impor- Neal, who committed to Notre  back to the youth, knowing  and my roommate [senior run- 
special place in his heart for  tance of offseason work and  Dame before taking an official  h o w  m uch  I  h a ve  b e e n  ning back Robert Hughes],”  
his mother, who worked two  t a ki n g adv a n t a g e  o f  ev e ry  visit. “In order to play foot- through in my life.”  the senior said. “We  are  all  
jobs to support the family, and  opportunity to get better.  ball, you have to have good  In addition to leaving with a  brothers and it’s like being in  
his grandmother, who cared  “There are no days off in the  grad es and it’ll all pay off  degree, Neal could graduate  a  giant family with moments  
f or  N e al  w hen  he  w a s  offseason,” Neal said. “You  once you get that degree from  being the only senior in the  that I will never forget.”  
younger.  have to come with [the effort]  one of the best schools in the  class of 2011 to play in every  
“They  mean  everything in  every day and work harder  country.”  ga m e  of  h is  No t r e  D a me  Contact Andrew Gastelum at  
th e  w o rld  t o  m e  a nd  I  a m  than the other man.”  Neal plans  on  graduating  career.  But when asked what  agastel1@nd.edu  

MICHAEL GARCIA 

Waiting game may be safety’s primary specialty 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
If at first you don’t succeed, become friends with senior safety Michael Garcia, and try, try again. 
Garcia’s journey toward suc­cess began during his senior year of high school, when he received an envelope in the mail from the Notre Dame Admissions Office. 
“I was one of those waitlist guys,” Garcia said. “When you’re on the waitlist it’s almost like you have to want it more because you didn’t get in to begin with. That was probably the most stressful thing.” 
Garcia proved, however, that he wanted it more than anyone. 
“I did everything I could. I became good friends with [Director of Admissions] Bob Mundy, and I put on the full court press on the admissions office,” Garcia said. “Then I got a call May 14, 2007, and that’s when I got into Notre Dame.” 
Coming from a family of Notre Dame graduates, Garcia always dreamed of being accepted into his father’s alma mater and walk­ing on to the basketball team. 
“My two brothers were already at Notre Dame, and my dad went here. They never played any Division I sports, but that’s what I always wanted to do,” Garcia said. “I love football, and I love basketball. As a kid, I always had a goal of walking on the basket­ball team, [but] I remember my freshman year they didn’t have basketball tryouts.” 
Once again, Garcia was not going to stop there. 
“I said, ‘Hey, I might as well try football.’ I was pretty good at football in high school, so I walked on,” Garcia said. “[I] did-n’t think in a million years that I would make it and got called back.” 
The early mornings and strenu­ous workload ultimately brought all of the walk-ons together. 
“The process was excruciating getting up around 4:15 for 4:30 workouts in the freezing cold of January and really not talking to anybody at the time because the other walk-ons are your competi­tion,” Garcia said. “You had to really want it, and I think that’s how we came really close. We were all competitors at the begin­ning, especially the walk-ons. We were all competing for the same spots, and then that grew into friendship because we were in this together once we all made it.” 
Since those strenuous early workouts, the walk-ons have banded together and formed 
WOPU  Nation,  the  Walk-On  
Players Union.  
“WOPU  Nation  is  Walk-On  

Players Union, an elite group of people,” Garcia said. “It’s awe­some, it’s a brotherhood. We have each other’s back. That’s part of the WOPU Nation, and we take pride in that.” 
Garcia has been ready to enter a game since day one. Two weeks ago against Tulsa, however, he went the extra step to make sure he would be ready if his number was called. 
“You share a number with another walk-on, and it’s hilari­ous. I share a number with [senior tailback] Pat Coughlin,” Garcia said. “They pulled a switcheroo on me last game because Coughlin was on kickoff, and I was going to be on kickoff. I was on the two-deep, so I was like, ‘Okay, there’s a slight chance that I might get into the game.’ I actually showed up to the game, and my number was 29. I knew I couldn’t be number 29, so I asked for a new number. So I came back, and I wore number 34.” 
Garcia swapped jerseys and texted his mom about the number change just in time for her to see his debut on national television. 
“It was my first time getting in and playing for ND. It was awe­some,” Garcia said. “As a walk-on, that’s what you work for, to consistently help the team out, and that’s how everyone thinks, and everyone wants their shot to compete for ND, compete for Our Lady. I feel like I was finally ready. 
“It was awesome getting in, running down the field in the house that Rock built. I had chills coming down my back, it’s some­thing that I’ll remember forever.” 
Playing football for Notre Dame taught Garcia life lessons. 
“I learned a lot about people, I learned a lot about leadership, I learned a lot about courage. You learn so much. With whatever circumstances you’re given, you just have to take it and roll, and you have to do the best that you can,” he said. “Being a walk-on, we’re prepared for any situation.” 
Garcia is grateful for all of his supporters who helped him get the opportunity to play at Notre Dame. 
“I have to thank my parents, my family, my two brothers, my friends and all who’ve supported me. I have to thank the coaches for giving me the opportunity,” he said. “It’s just been an amazing journey, an amazing experience.” 

Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
STEVE BOTSFORD 

After initial denial, walk-on chases, and fulflls, dreams 
playing football for the Irish, transfer,” Botsford said. “And hall team. In the spring, “If I’m not studying or play-
By JOSEPH MONARDO 

but he had to wait. He was not then once I got in, I knew I Botsford decided to take the ing football, I’m probably 
Sports Writer 

recruited by Notre Dame, so was going to take the next next step and pursue his goal either watching movies or he enrolled at the University step and see what I could do of joining the varsity squad. playing the NCAA [football] 
As a lifelong Notre Dame fan of Indiana before transferring to with this football thing.” “[Tryouts were] rough,” video game,” Botsford said. from Chicago, senior line-to Notre Dame after his fresh-As a sophomore, Botsford Botsford said. “We started out The movies Botsford may be backer Steve Botsford consid-man year. became a resident of Fisher three days a week, and then watching, however, might sur­ers himself lucky to have “When I got rejected from Hall and began his Notre we went to five days a week prise the average Notre Dame played for the Irish. Notre Dame after high school, Dame football career immedi-at, like, 5:30 in the morning. student. While the movie buff 
Botsford always dreamed of I knew I wanted to try to ately as a member of his inter-It’s funny looking back on it likes movies like “The Matrix,” now, but during it was horri-“Remember the Titans” and ble.” “Rudy,” his favorite is the 
Most people would not be 1942 classic “Casablanca.” able to recount 5:30 a.m. “It throws people off practices with a hearty laugh, because it’s old, but I love it,” but he managed to do just that Botsford said. managed to do just that. As he prepares for his final Botsford, who describes him-home game, Botsford said he self as “fun -loving” and has come to appreciate his “goofy,” makes sure that time at Notre Dame. everyone knows how happy he “The team has been great is to be part of the Notre and everything I hoped it Dame football team. would be,” Botsford said. 
“I’ve always got a smile on “Growing up a Notre Dame my face, I’m always goofing fan, obviously you want to be around,” Botsford said. on the team, but you hope it’s 
While Botsford said he cher-a whole bunch of good guys ishes the fact that he has a out there who really work role on the team, he harbors hard. And you get here, and other passions as well. everyone does. Everyone Although the economics major works hard, and everyone is already has one job offer, he really nice and open.” hopes to work on Wall Street Botsford said he has learned in the future. a lot during his time at Notre 
“I like economics a lot,” Dame. Botsford said. “It’s tough, but “It’s taught me a lot about it’s fun, and it’s helping me get time management, and just a job. It’s something that’s working for a team,” Botsford really easy to talk about when said. “In high school, you get a you get in an interview.” little more credit, and as a 
Botsford said his biggest walk on, you don’t really get surprise at Notre Dame has that. But you still work hard been managing both football and you get success from see-and academics. Although ing the team succeed.” those two areas require a huge time commitment, he Contact Joseph Monardo at still finds time to relax. jmonardo@nd.edu 


DUVAL KAMARA 

After setting freshman records, Kamara settles in 
with his teammates began that 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
freshman season, when his 
Sports Writer 
older teammates aided him in taking his game to the next 

Growing up in Jersey City, level as he prepared to wear N.J., Duval Kamara was never his No. 18 Irish jersey. interested in playing football “Coming in as a freshman, I at Notre Dame, but once he thought it was a pretty smooth arrived on campus, he knew transition. You know you have he’d found everything. older guys like [graduated 
“It [Notre Dame] actually players] David Grimes, D.J. wasn’t my first choice. I was Hord, they helped us out, the actually interested in young guys, myself and Golden University of Miami but that [Tate], the freshmen coming didn’t go too well with the par-in,” he said. “They helped us ents,” Kamara said. “They and prepared us for the 
weren’t too sure  off ens e  and  
about Miami, a big party school  “Just knowing I’m  basically college ball.”  
a nd a ll that. They thought I nee ded to be  doing it for someone, and another thing is  The le ad er-ship that Grimes an d Hord  
focused.  the program. Just  showed became  
“Then I actu­ally came here f o r a visit o u t  doing it for years to come, and eventually  i n st il le d i n K ama r a, w h o tries to emulate  
here, and I liked  a National  hi s  f ormer  
it . Th e guys w ere cool, t he coa ch es were great, I thought  Championship, and I can say I was part of building that.”  t e a m m a t e s around his new, younger team-mat es a n d set  
it  was  a  perfect  an example that  
fit.” F indi n g pe r fe ct  tha t fit  Duval Kamara senior receiver  they too can fol­l o w. H e fe el s that a large part  
enabled Kamara  of  t his  comes  
to set freshman  w it h  be ing  a  

records for receptions and senior on the team. receiving yards, allowed a “It feels good to actually be a smooth transition to college senior, you know, to be at the life and find a family he top of the locker room. The wouldn’t have found anywhere guys look up to you, and you else. have to play that role,” 
“I think that’s one of the Kamara said. “I think that things about Notre Dame’s comes with the territory of football team — the guys in being a senior. And just ways the locker room,” he said. that you can lead the team, “These are the guys that you’ll ways that you probably don’t talk to for the rest of your life, think about it but you are your brothers, your family. leading the team just because That’s just another reason I you are a senior.” came to Notre Dame, just the Kamara leads with his guys around me. I’m going to approach to practice every day keep in touch with these guys and an attitude that he knows for years and years to come. will lead to better results. It’s a pretty special thing.” “Just going out there and 
Kamara’s close relationship working every day, and show-ing the guys that you have to work every day, every day that you’re supposed to and if you do little things, it’ll all work out,” Kamara said. 


Another important lesson that Kamara works to instill in his underclassmen teammates is that the team surrounding them is everything, and that’s what makes Notre Dame more special than any other univer­sity. 
“I think the guys in that locker room know it’s all about the players around you,” he said. “Those are the guys that you see every day, those are the guys who, when you’re going through your worst times, those are the guys that are going to be around you. I mean it’s four years and four years is a long time.” 
Kamara also said he believes the team’s family atmosphere makes the players more will­ing to help each other improve. 
“You don’t really get sick of them,” he said. “These are guys who are going to tell you that if you’re doing something wrong, they’re going to tell you it’s wrong. Those are the type of guys you need around you. You don’t need someone who’s just going to kiss up to you. That’s just what you need, a brother, a family mem­ber, who’s going to tell you what you’re doing right and what you’re doing wrong.” 
Kamara said his classmates have made his college experi­ence what it is. 
“I think we’re a close group of guys, I think we’ve been close since we came in fresh­man year, and that’s what makes it special,” he said pointing to the group of sen­iors around him. “It’s like everyone’s from all over the globe and we just have one thing, football, to bring us together. I mean it’s special. We all know what we want in life, we all want to achieve the highest level of this sport, and we just knew that coming in, and that’s one of the things that brought us together.” 
For Kamara, the past four years seem to have flown by, and he tries not to focus on that as he approaches senior day and his final game in Notre Dame Stadium. 
“It’s reality but I try not to think about it, so it’s unreal. It seems like yesterday we just came in as freshmen,” he said. “It all went by so fast. But I really don’t think about it, it’s just another chapter of life. It’s in the past right now, that’s how I think about it. I try to stay level headed.” 
Although he tries to stay level headed, Kamara said he can’t help but recall the feel­ing of stepping into Notre Dame Stadium and wearing his No. 18 jersey for his first game with the Irish, a feeling he knows he won’t be able to find anywhere else. 
“My freshman year, I can remember it like it was yester­day,” Kamara said, “I mean I was just struck, shocked about how many people were out there [in the Stadium]. That’s just part of going to Notre Dame, it’s something special, it’s a special place.” 
He’s able to laugh and smile about it now, but Kamara said he wasn’t so relaxed when he first was called in to play. 
“My first game — oh man, I was nervous. My first play of freshman year, I went out there and my legs are shaking, my arms are shaking, and I’m like, ‘Oh man, I don’t want to mess up, I don’t want to mess up.’ And I actually caught my first pass on my first play,” he recalled. 
That first play led to a standout freshman season in 2007 in which Kamara sur­passed legendary Irish receiv­er Tim Brown’s rookie record for catches with 32, including four touchdown catches, and he recorded 357 receiving yards in 11 games. 
Kamara continued to be a contributor for Notre Dame in his sophomore and junior sea­sons, playing in a combined 25 games with 14 starts. So far this season, he has played in six games, notching 68 receiv­ing yards. 
“It’s something special,” Kamara said. 
“It’s kind of like you’re going to war with your guys. You walk down the hall, tap the walls, tap the ‘Play Like A Champion Today’ sign. It’s something special, you can’t explain it unless you’re part of it. It’s something hard to understand, but it’s something special. Walking out and just looking around at 80,000 peo­ple.” 
Although he’s no longer a freshman, Kamara said he still feels the same nervous excite­ment that he felt as a first year player whenever he emerges from the tunnel with his Irish teammates. 
“I always have butterflies, that’s just who I am. But as a senior, you go out there with the confidence, a different swagger about yourself, you just want to perfect everything you do,” Kamara said. 
Driving that swagger and desire for perfection for Kamara are both his family and teammates. 
“Just knowing I’m doing it for someone, and another thing is the program. Just doing it for years to come, and eventually a National Championship, and I can say I was part of building that.” 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 

GARY GRAY 

Outgoing safety gives Irish a shot of athleticism 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
In Gary Gray’s first game in an Irish uniform, he returned an interception for 41 yards. A little more than a year later, in the senior corner­back’s first start, he led the team with six tackles and returned a 30-yard intercep­tion. 
Now, he is a steady pres­ence in Notre Dame’s back­field. 
In Notre Dame’s first game 
of 2010, a 23 -12 win over Purdue on Sept. 4, Gray led the team with eight solo tack­les, and tallied Richland Northeast High School in Columbia, S.C., Gray chose Notre Dame over offers from Florida, Florida State and Michigan, among others. After finishing his high school career with a trip to the U.S. Army All-American Bowl, he enrolled in January 2007 to be available for spring prac­tice with the Irish. 
But injuries kept Gray out of much of the spring and all of the 2007 season. He had sur­gery on his shoulder prior to the start of that season. 
“It was tough, not being able to play,” he said. “I hurt my arm in spring practice, then my recurring shoulder 

nine in total. H e f o l l o w e d that with five tackles against  “I mean, going into the season we didn’t think we’d be 4-5 right now,  i n j u r y w a s b a d [ i n t h e f a l l ] . B u t i t g a v e m e a  
M i ch i g a n a n d  but we’ve been close in  c h a n c e  t o  
P i t t s b u r g h , e i g h t a g a i n s t W e s t e r n M i ch i g a n a n d  all our games except two. It’s tough, but there’s still season  adjust to col­lege.” H e p l a y e d his first game  
n i n e Tulsa.  a g a i n s t  left.”  i n N o t r e Dame’s 35-17  
“I think I’ve  w i n  o v e r  
developed  as  a  Gary Gray  M i c h i g a n  o n  
player, having  senior cornerback  S e p t .  1 3 ,  
more urgency,”  2 0 0 8 .  I n  t h e  
G r a y  s a i d .  f o u r t h  q u a r - 
“Watching film  t e r,  h e  

more, learning your oppo-grabbed the interception off a nent. In high school, you did-pass from Wolverine quarter-n’t watch film, but here you back Nick Sheridan. He ran have to, to be ready.” the ball from Notre Dame’s 42 
Gray said he became more yard line to Michigan’s 17 of a leader as a senior, and before being tackled. his performance in games “That was great. I read the defined his leadership style. coverage right, picked it and 
“I’m not much of a talker, ran as far as I could,” he said. but I talk about plays on the Gray’s mother was in the field, and what I do,” he said. stands to see him make the “Guys see that, and they want interception, which made it to make plays too.” even better, he said. But he 
At every new step Gray has noted a playful grudge had a fast start — but it took against defensive tackle Ian a while for him to get there. Williams, one of his best 
A four-star recruit out of friends on the team. 

“I could have scored, but Ian didn’t block for me,” he said. “... He didn’t block, that’s why I got tackled.” 
Gray played in nine games as a sophomore, but then took a leave from the team for per­sonal reasons. He returned as a junior for the 2009 football season and soon became a fixture in the defense. He played in 11 games and start­ed the last seven. 
In his first career start, against Southern California on Oct. 17, 2009, he recorded six tackles and intercepted a pass from Matt Barkley. He ran the pass to the USC 13 yard-line, setting the Irish up for a touchdown three plays later. 
In his career Gray has inter­cepted four passes and helped to break up many more. His position in pass coverage led him to get a tattoo on his back, of a hawk carrying a football. The tattoo reads “Ball Hawk.” 
“It just means I’m always around the ball when it’s in the air,” Gray said. “When it’s in my vicinity, I’m going to be around it.” 
Gray had the tattoo done as a junior. 
“My godfather always talked about getting to the ball,” he said. “We always joked about me getting a tattoo, like squeezing the air out of a ball, but I already got it. It has meaning behind it.” 
Outside of practice, Gray is just like any other student — he listens to music, does homework and plays video games with friends. He has grown close with most of the football team’s seniors, he said, and spends most of his time with them. 
Defensive end Emeka Nwankwo is the one to beat when playing Madden NFL, Gray said, but he is “great at FIFA,” a soccer video game. 
His favorite place on cam­pus is related to football as well: the Guglielmino Complex, where players lift weights, study, have meetings and eat dinner. 
“We spend half our time here,” he said. 
Gray will graduate in May with a degree in sociology and a minor in computer applications. He said he could continue with the computer applications major if he comes back to the team for a fifth year — something he would like to do. 
“Hopefully I can do that,” he said. “We’ll see how things work out this year.” 
Through three years of action, Gray’s time at Notre Dame has included plenty of upheaval, as the defense changed schemes in each year he played. 
“It hasn’t affected me that much. I think I’m a quick learner,” he said. “I think I adjusted okay.” 
He said the coaching change worked out well. 
“It’s been tough with the coaching changes,” he said. “But the transition was good. [Irish coach Charlie Weis] is doing great with the Chiefs, and I really like what [Irish coach Brian Kelly] brings to the table, and I like our defensive staff.” 
Gray said the problems the team has faced since his freshman year have given the Irish a fighting character. 
“Through the turmoil, us losing, us being 3-9 that year and having mediocre years the next two years after that has been tough, but you just have to keep fighting,” he said. “That’s what we always do.” 
That character has been evident in this season as well, he said. 
“I mean, going into the sea­son we didn’t think we’d be 4­5 right now, but we’ve been close in all our games except for two,” he said. “It’s tough, but there’s still season left.” 
But there is still a lot to accomplish in 2010. Gray said talk among the seniors is focused on avoiding a senior day loss. 
“Just get the win for the seniors,” he said. “They don’t want to leave their last game in Notre Dame Stadium with a loss. It was tough last year, seeing my friends leave with a loss in the Stadium. We don’t want that to happen again.” 
With coming back for a fifth year as a possibility, Gray’s view of that senior game may be a little different than that of most; but his reflection on his four years at Notre Dame summed up the experience of this year’s senior class. 
“It didn’t start well with the records,” he said. “But we’ve always fought in every game this year. We had our ups and downs, but we keep fighting. We’re the Fighting Irish.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 


MARTIN QUINTANA 

Time at ND teaches Quintana the ‘right manner’ 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
This Saturday, senior outside linebacker Martin Quintana will take his last steps onto the field he has worked so hard to find. Then he will trade in his helmet for a briefcase and swap his jer­sey for a suit, venturing into corporate America in December. 
But heading into his last game, the fifth-year senior said he plans nothing different to highlight the significance of his situation. 
“As always, I am just going to soak it all in, but this time it’ll be for the last time,” he said. “I always had a dream to play col­lege football and it is definitely something that has defined my time here.” 
The walk-on senior graduated last year with a degree in finance, but came back for one more year to earn a degree in Spanish, and, of course, to play football. 
“It was very important to me and my heritage to receive this degree,” Quintana said. “I also had one more year of eligibility and I was lucky enough for [Irish coach Brian] Kelly to let me return and be a part of his team.” 
Concerning the first-year coach, Quintana had nothing but good things to say, express­ing praise and even foresight into where he sees the team going in the future. 
“I have no doubt that [Kelly] is going to do big things here with the program,” Quintana said. “I am just glad to say that I am a part of the start of something special.” 
But returning to a team with a new coach meant changing positions from defensive end to outside linebacker, something that could have been very intim­idating for a walk-on who has not received much playing time. 
“My job is to make sure I make the guys out there better and prepare them for Saturday,” Quintana said. “I may not play too much in the game on Saturday, but my games are Monday through Thursday out on the practice field. If you can’t get pumped about that, then you must not love football.” 
The fifth-year senior said that the field is where he belongs, especially because of the broth­erhood he has formed with the other walk-ons. 
“Later on down the road, I am going to remember the relation­ships that I have formed with all of these guys out here,” he said. “All of us walk-ons love the challenges we face and it’s almost like it is a competition between us during practice.” 
Reinforcing one of Kelly’s favorite mottos, Quintana also insists that he owes Notre Dame for what he has accomplished, not the other way around. 
“I have grown so much since coming here,” he said. “Playing here is about doing things the right way and conducting your­self in the right manner, all for Notre Dame, our mother.” 


Quintana said he would grad­uate with values that will help him in the future. 
” Because of everything that I have been through, there is nothing that someone can put me through that I haven’t expe­rienced before,” Quintana said. “The values that I developed here are what I will carry with me for the rest of my life.” 
With his bright future coming fast, Quintana had only one thing to say. “I love this university, but it’s time for me to move on to other things,” he said. 
Those other things will result in a gold-plated name on his desk, four years after first see­ing his name scribbled onto tape stuck to a gold helmet. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
DAN WENGER 

With another year possible, Wenger not done yet 
the teaching he received in his 

By ERIC PRISTER Associate Sports Editor  first few years on the team. “I would just say that my first  
offensive  line  coach,  John  
Fifth-year offensive lineman  Latina, recruited me from the  
Dan Wenger has dealt with  start and was really always in  
position changes, coaching  my corner for everything,” he  
changes and battled injuries  said.  “He  molded  me  and  
throughout his time at Notre  shaped me and taught me foot- 
Dame. Through it all, Wenger  ball like I  never  knew it was  
said he felt that  supposed to be  
he  had  some- played.  He  
thing to prove, and is confident that he was able  “It’s just one of those things where you’re  showed me what the game’s really about and tran­ 
to  accomplish  looking for the real end  sitioned me from  
that goal. “It’s just one of those things where you’re  goal — to be successful every year and to keep getting better and  a good high school player to a real college player who real- 
looking for the real end goal — to be successful  hopefully play at the next level.”  ly understood the game and gave me a grasp  
every year and  on  what we’re  
to keep getting  Dan Wenger  trying to do. Not  
better and hope- senior center  only  coach  
fully play at the  Latina, but also COLEMAN COLLINS/The Observer  
next  level,”  [former  Irish Senior center Dan Wenger, pictured at guard, 51, has switched positions along the offensive line  
Wenger said. “In life, in foot- center] John Sullivan reached throughout his career at Notre Dame, filling in wherever was needed to help  the Irish.  
ball, in school or really in any  out to me a lot, and luckily I  
aspect there’s always going to  had two years with John. Those  greatest feeling of it all, just  be able to adapt in pretty much  couldn’t  change  one  thing  
be something that  comes  up  two definitely helped me and  knowing that the other four  a split second, because with my  about it. I met great guys, great  
and brings you down to your  worked with me and made me  guys could trust me and knew  position changes and coaching  people, great coaches. I got a  
knees, and then the question is  football smart.”  that I was going to get my job  changes, there  was  a  lot of  great education, and this place  
are you going to get up or are  Wenger’s most successful sea- done and had faith and confi­ back-and-forth,” he said. “So  is something special. Whoever  
you going to sit there and lay  son  was  his junior year. He  dence in  me.  That’s the best  it’s just a matter of being able  gets the opportunity to  come  
down  and  not  do  anything  started every game for the Irish  feeling, being able to give your  to be coached in certain situa­ through here, not only going to  
about it?  at center in 2008, a team that  all on every snap of every play  tions at certain positions and  school but if you’re given the  
“And I just kept fighting and  finished 7-6 after their Hawaii  of every game, and being that  roll with the punches. You’ve  blessing of playing here, you  
getting up and was stronger for  Bowl victory.  reliable to a team. It’s some- got a situation that’s out of your  really have to treasure it. It  
it  and  bounced  back  and  “[Being a starter is] obviously  thing special that you don’t find  hand, out of your control, and  took  me  a  while  to  really  
proved myself  as  one  of the  one of the greatest feelings in  very often with many players.”  you have to make the best of  understand that and really  
toughest  and  smartest  and  the world,” he said. “I started  Wenger played center in high  it.”  realize where I was. You can’t  
most reliable players that have  at center, and all the calls were  school, but has been moved  Despite the many setbacks,  take it for granted at all. But  
come through this program.”  on me. I had control of the line,  back and forth between center  Wenger  said  he  would  not  don’t rule me out. I might be  
Wenger’s 19 starts places him  and that’s what I really live and  and guard, a process that he  change a thing about his time  back next year.”  
third among active offensive  die for in playing this game,  said he believes has taught him  at Notre Dame, which, he hint- 
players in that category. He  because I have control, I’m the  to adapt.  ed, might not be quite done.  Contact Eric Prister at  
attributes part of his success to  anchor of the line. That was the  “It gave me the ability to just  “It’s been great,” he said. “I  eprister@nd.edu  

NICK LEZYNSKI 

WOPU Nation president relishes chances to lead 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
For some kids, it’s a dream to one day play football for Notre Dame. For senior walk-on cor­nerback Nick Lezynski, it was much more than that. 
“I would come home in first grade with a 100 on my spelling test and I would ask my mom ‘Is this good enough to get into Notre Dame? Will I be able to play football there?’” Lezynski said. 
The Newton, Pa., native hails from a family draped in Notre Dame tradition. Lezynski’s par­ents, sister and uncles all attended Notre Dame. He even attended Notre Dame High School in his hometown. 
An Irish fan growing up, Lezynski walked on during the spring of his freshman year and now is part of the very select WOPU Nation — the Walk-On Players Union, described as a brotherhood between the walk-ons. 
“We have parties. We have formals. We have e-mail chains. We have video skits,” Lezynski said. “Basically, we rip on each other the whole time.” 
Members of the WOPU Nation don’t take themselves too seri­ous, either. 
“I’m the president and they’re thinking about impeachment,” Lezynski said. “It’s not going to happen. It’s turned into a bit of a dictator­ship.” 
The leader of the WOPU Nation off the field, Lezynski got onto the field this season for a play in the fourth quarter of Notre Dame’s 23-16 win over Pittsburgh. 
“The guy in front of me gets hurt and I find myself running onto the field in a six-point game, in the fourth quarter, playing kickoff return, which is easily the hardest thing to do in a game. It’s like running into a train wreck,” Lezynski said. 
“It was refreshing to have some of the walk-ons get some playing time this year. I was fortunate enough to have played in a legitimately tight game.” 
The converted quarterback 
— 
who, at 5-foot-9, calls him­self a shade under six feet tall 

— 
also made the travel roster and has traveled to each game this year. 


“I went from being the little puny quarterback to senior year, going on kickoff return and traveling with the team,” Lezynski said. “That whole route, I’ve had people support­ing me and I appreciate the work ethic my parents instilled in me.” 
Lezynski mentioned fellow senior walk-ons Michael Garcia, Dan Franco, Martin Quintana and Chris Gurries as among those who have sup­ported him throughout this process. 
“The bottom line is that we want Notre Dame football to win,” Lezynski said. “These past few years have been tough knowing that, being a player, I can influence the outcome. It’s been frustrating. I owe a lot to the previous coaching staff and this coaching staff for giving me a shot.” 


Lezynski, a marketing major, envisions the WOPU Nation bonds to continue for the rest of his life, including in a possi­ble business venture. 
“Maybe a couple of the WOPU Nation guys and I will go into an entrepreneurship,” Lezynski said. “Maybe start a business, make some money and start a scholarship fund for the future WOPU Nation guys.” 
While the business world is an option, Lezynski does not rule out a coaching career. Even without a coaching career, he believes football has prepared him for whatever challenge awaits him. 
“There’s so many skills, not just physically, but mentally also,” Lezynski said. “Now that I’ve accomplished this goal, I feel like anything in the future, I’ll be able to tackle. 
“Even though we have these down seasons and personally, I’m not a star, I wouldn’t trade this for anything. There’s noth­ing like being a Notre Dame football player.” 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
CHRIS SKUBIS 

Lineman spends time with linemates on, off field 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
Rarely is a man who is six­foot-two and weighs in at 232 pounds considered small. 
One of the few exceptions is when he is a defensive end for Notre Dame. 
While the thought of facing men nearly 100 pounds bigger might intimidate some people, Christopher Skubis relishes the opportunity of going up against Notre Dame’s offensive line every day in practice. 
“It was a tough adjustment at first going against offensive tackles who are 310 [pounds] or 320,” Skubis said. “It was a challenge every day to come out here, but I’ve been getting bet­ter and I’ve had a blast doing it. It’s nice to get in there and try to throw my weight around a lit­tle bit.” 


Skubis, a walk-on, came to Notre Dame as a typical stu­dent. He did not play for the team as a freshman, and didn’t try out until his sophomore year, after a season of interhall foot­ball, when he felt the urge to attempt something bigger and better. 
“My freshman year, I played really beat the crap out of us, and they had us in here five days a week at five in the morn­ing. They worked us to the bone.” 
Skubis stuck it out, though, and became one of about 10 players out of the 50 from his class who tried out to make the squad. Though he was a walk-on, the scholarship players instantly embraced him as a member of the team. 
“All those guys took me under their wing,” he said. “They showed me what was expected and taught me the plays.” 
Not only were the other defen­sive linemen helpful to him on 
interhall, but something was missing,” he said. “It wasn’t as competitive as I had hoped. I loved inter-hall, but I thought I could do something more.” 
While he has to fight on the field now to make up for his size 

“My freshman year, I played interhall, but something was missing. It wasn’t as competitive as I had hoped. I loved interhall, but I thought I could do something more.” 
Chris Skubis senior defensive end 
the field, but he became friends with them off the field, as well. 
“I never thought I’d be running around with [senior nose guard] Ian Williams and [junior defen­sive ends] Ethan [Johnson] and Kapron [Lewis­
disadvantage, he had to battle even harder just to make the team. Tryouts took place in the spring and were an agonizing process, filled with many demanding workouts. 
“It was a brutal process back under [former Irish] coach [Charlie] Weis,” he said. “They Moore], and we’ve actually become really great friends,” he said. “Last spring break, I was down in Florida with those guys. It’s just opened a lot of doors for me, and I’ve met a lot of great people that I probably wouldn’t have had a chance to.” 
Though Skubis has not made a huge impact for the Irish on the field, he and the rest of the senior walk-ons have helped to make their own large contribu­tion to the program, through the Walk-On Players Union (WOPU), a group that unites all the walk-ons and brings them closer. 
“WOPU has grown in strength,” he said. “Back in the day, no one really heard of it and part of our senior class goal was to get the word out there and make it one of those power­ful groups on campus. It’s on the rise. We already got a hold of those new guys, teaching them our ways, showing them what’s expected, and they’re going to keep the tradition going.” 
A double major in accounting and economics, Skubis plans to head south to Atlanta after graduation to work in auditing 
— and to escape the cold. 
“I’m from Buffalo, and then coming to South Bend, I’ve got­ten my fair share of snow,” he said. “So I figure I’ll go down there with nice, warm weather and enjoy the heat for a while down in SEC country and repre­sent Notre Dame.” 
But before he does that, there is still some more football to be played and memories to reflect on. 
“I’ve gotten to experience so much by running out of that tunnel and being out there on the field for warm-ups,” he said. “It’s just incredible, and wouldn’t trade it for anything.” 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 

JOHN BELCHER 

Wyoming walk-on excels most with track team 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
What do you get when you combine a one pound burger, some jalepeño sauce and a Notre Dame lineman? That would be the Man Challenge, presented by senior walk-on long snapper and defensive lineman John Belcher. 
“It’s pretty fun but one of my roommates, he’s a little guy at about 160 pounds, he can eat,” Belcher said. “But we keep it a tight race.” 
The 5-11, 235 pound native of Cheyenne, Wyo., makes more than just monstrous burgers in his spare time. 
“I’m a huge fan of grilling stuff. I love making chicken, steak, pork, fish,” Belcher said. “I love to eat. So anything that sounds good, I’ll try to make it sometime.” 
A new addition to the team this year, Belcher’s talents have been simmering on the track and field team, where he competes in both the shot put and hammer throw. The Irish men’s track team has won four of the past six Big East titles in both indoor and outdoor track. 
“For track, [my goal is] to win two more Big East champi­onships,” Belcher said. “I know our throwing squad is a good one. This year should be fun. I’m excited.” 
Belcher, an All-Big East selection as a thrower, has the unique situation of balancing track and football. 
“Whenever football ends, I’ll be able to go back to track. Right now, my commitment is to football and when it’s over, I’ll be back to track.” 
In May’s Big East champi­onships, Belcher placed third and fourthin the shot put and hammer throw events, respec­tively. Belcher wants the rust to come off easily after not throwing for a while. 
“Hopefully, I’ll be able to get back in the groove pretty quickly,” he said. 
As a rare varsity athlete to walk onto the football team, Belcher had always wanted to play for the Irish. 
“This was a great opportuni­ty. I’m happy I did it, I’m happy I made it on the team,” Belcher said. “In my senior year of high school, I thought my football career was over. It’s nice to be able to play again.” 
Belcher’s highlight of the year came in the Irish’s first game when he got to run out of the tunnel at Notre Dame Stadium. 
“Running out of the tunnel is a really cool experience,” Belcher said. “It’s the first time I’ve run out to see 80,000 peo­ple from the field.” 
Notre Dame’s great academ­ics, athletics and overall atmosphere drew Belcher to Notre Dame out of high school, as did its with its proximity — or lack thereof — to his home in Wyoming. But those factors did not have the greatest influ­ence on him during his three-plus years. 


“I could name off coaches. I could name off friends. I could name off teachers. But it’s really been the Notre Dame community that has had a huge impact on me,” Belcher said. 
As a pre-med student who has opted to not attend med­ical school, Belcher would like to work in medical device sales for a company like Stryker or Johnson & Johnson. An ideal situation would be in the oper­ating room with surgeons instructing them on how to use the instruments, he said. 
“I was very fortunate to have this opportunity and lucky to be on this team,” Belcher said. “I can’t believe I’m already senior. I’ve just really enjoyed my time here.” 
Contact Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
ANDREW NUSS 

Nuss switches sides of ball early in ND career 
wanted to give every school a fair 

By CHRIS ALLEN Sports Writer  chance,” Nuss said. “When I was offered by Notre Dame, I was like,  
well, this is what every kid grows  
When offensive lineman Andrew  up wanting. When I visited in the  
Nuss first stepped onto the field of  summer, it was basically, ‘I’m  
Notre Dame Stadium during his  done, I’ve found everything I  
freshman year, he envisioned  wanted.’”  
some of his greatest moments in  When Nuss arrived on campus,  
an Irish uniform happening when  the coaching staff, led by former  
he chased after opposing quarter- Irish coach Charlie Weis and  
backs.  offensive line coach John Latina,  
Little did he know then that his  convinced Nuss to switch to the  
career  would  offensive line to  
center  around  help  him  best  
protecting quar­terbacks on the other side of the ball.  “My freshman summer, when I got here in training camp I was on  realize his poten­tial. “Coach Weis asked me what I  
Before  the  the defensive side of the  wanted to be. I  
change could be made, the six-foot-five senior  ball. It was a lot of fun, but I realized I’m not  told him I want­ed to be a play-maker. Turned  
from Virginia had to experi­ence a moment of self-realiza­ really athletic. I realized I should try offense instead.”  out to be the opposite,” Nuss said. “I made the switch after the JULIE HERDER/The Observer  
tion.  Michigan game Senior guard Andrew Nuss originally came to Notre Dame planning on chasing quarterbacks, but  
“My freshman  Andrew Nuss  my  freshman after switching sides of the ball, he spent his Irish career protecting them instead.  
summer, when I got here in train- senior guard  year. who  [Latina] was the  great trip.”  2009, ranking sixth on the team in  Once the football schedule  
ing camp I was  offensive  line  With another year of practice  special teams appearances, seeing  comes to a close, Nuss plans to  
on the defensive side of the ball,”  coach back then basically told me  under his belt, Nuss found himself  significant time as an offensive  pursue  a  job in the financial  
Nuss said. “It was a lot of fun, but  that my future here at Notre  playing a big role in the 2009  guard and flourishing under the  industry, a path that began with a  
I realized I’m not really athletic. I  Dame was on the offensive line.  opener against Nevada, where he  coaching of new offensive line  position change in the business  
realized I should try offense  When I made the switch, a bunch  had one of his favorite moments of  coach Frank Verducci. After the  school similar to the one he made  
instead.”  of guys helped me out along the  his career.  coaching change in the off-season,  on the field.  
Long before he considered his  way, namely [former center] Eric  “There was a screen, and I was  Nuss has maintained his role as a  “All of my friends were doing  
prospects on the offensive line,  Olsen and [offensive lineman] Dan  just running downfield as fast as I  strong special-teams contributor  marketing,” he said. “I said, ‘Oh, I  
Nuss was a four-star recruit who  Wenger. I loved it.”  could. I thought I was running  while seeing duty along the offen­ don’t want to do marketing, I want  
started his college search looking  Eventually, Nuss worked his  really fast, but I wasn’t,” Nuss  sive line.  to be different.’ I chose finance,  
for a school that could provide  way into the rotation along the  said. “All of  a  sudden out of  As he approaches the end of his  and sometimes I regret being a  
him with the perfect mix of aca­ line, making his way into two  nowhere I saw a corner coming at  senior season, he said he believes  finance major because it’s so hard.  
demics and athletic accommoda­ games during the 2008 season  me and I just cut him really bad  attending Notre Dame was the  I really do enjoy stocks and mutu­ 
tions. Though a dozen schools  and impacting special teams.  and sprung Michael Floyd on a  right decision.  al bonds and all that stuff, though.  
offered him spots, when Notre  “Sophomore year was great,” he  40-yard play. After that I was so  “It’s definitely a lot harder than I  I find it very interesting.”  
Dame came calling, he couldn’t  said. “I got to play a little bit, got to  pumped, but I was extremely tired  thought it was going to be,” Nuss  
resist.  play in the Navy game, and then  at the end of it.”  said. “But overall, I think I would  Contact Chris Allen at  
“I visited every school because I  obviously the Hawaii Bowl was a  Nuss played in 13 games in  do it again if I could.”  callen10@nd.edu  

BILL FLAVIN 

Long snapper exceeds even his own expectations 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
A well-rounded Notre Dame experience is all Bill Flavin wanted when he stepped on campus four years ago as a stu­dent, but as he moved his belongings into the fourth floor of Keough Hall, Flavin never expected he’d one day be the starting long snapper for the Irish. 
It’s a story that began his freshman year in the same dorm hallway where he still lives today, and one that ended two weeks ago when his ankle broke in the first quarter. Although it ended prematurely, Flavin said he’ll never forget experiencing a walk-on’s dream. 
“I walked on in the spring of my freshman year,” he said. “It’s been a dream to come to Notre Dame since I was a little kid. My dad came here and I’ve been coming to football games my whole life. I didn’t really think about [walking on] com­ing out of high school, I just thought I’d be done. 
“But then [graduated Irish player] Mike Anello, he was a walk-on and was a junior when I was a freshman, and he was in Keough and lived in my sec­tion, and he said, ‘Did you ever think about walking on?’ And I said, ‘Well, kind of, I mean I can long snap alright, so might as well try.’” 
Another hallmate and friend, Dan Brennan, also pushed Flavin to try out and seconded Anello’s encouragement. 
“I was on the fence but [Brennan] was like, ‘just do it, you got nothing to lose. Even if you don’t make it, you’ll just be back here, where you are now,’” Flavin said. “So I took his advice to heart, and I gave it a shot and here I am now.” 
Some things Flavin didn’t think about when he took that advice: early morning practices walking through snow, tough workouts that are expected to fit in around hours working in the summer, astrict weight training regimen, and the hours necessary to put in outside of class and a social life. But standing on the field and play­ing in front of thousands of cheering fans makes it all worth it for Flavin. Especially since he was not a recruit but rather a respected member of the WOPU Nation. 
“The WOPU Nation is the Walk-On Players Union,” he said. “It’s just the group of walk-on players — like we have each other’s backs all the time and we all went through the same things to make it. We’re all dedicated people off the field and on the field. It’s a really cool group of people to be a part of and they’ve been my best friends for three years.” 
Being part of the WOPU Nation and growing to have a leadership position on the team in his senior season has added to Flavin’s experience. Working up to the top is nothing new for him, however, as he has held leadership positions before. This time, he said the drive to lead came from his desire of once more achieving his own goals and to help Notre Dame do well. 
“I’ve been a Notre Dame fan my entire life, and obviously, no one enjoys seeing Notre Dame lose or not play a complete game to teams that [it] should beat, so the overall desire is to help the team win and to get the team back to where it should be” he said. “I think the difference between a leadership role on the football team at Notre Dame to a role in student government or whatever else I’ve been involved in, is that with this, the group of people you’re with, it’s an incredibly motivated group. It doesn’t take much to catalyze that effort. It’s kind of leadership by example; working hard and doing things right every day, everybody gets caught along for the ride.” 
Flavin leads by example in the campus science labs as well, where he has been studying biochemistry in hopes of attend­ing a MD/PhD program next fall to pursue a career that com­bines a love for research with patient care. Where he will end up is yet to be determined, but Flavin has submitted applica­tions to schools such as Northwestern and Stanford. 
How Flavin handles it all is something that would have been a mystery to even himself when he stepped onto campus, but now, he wouldn’t have pre­ferred it any other way. 
“Whenever I’m busier, I’m able to accomplish more. If you would have told me I’d be doing all the things I’ve been doing, I would have told you, when I first started, I would have said that’s nuts, I wouldn’t have been able to do it,” he said. 

MIKE RAGONE 

Torn ACL helps tight end realize priorities in life 
By MEGAN GOLDEN 
Sports Writer 
A torn ACL, a taste of Notre Dame academics and a coach­ing change were not going to stop senior tight end Mike Ragone from becoming the athlete, student and, most importantly, friend that he is today. 
Ragone saw action in 11 games as a freshman, and he quickly learned the difference between his high school’s game day atmosphere and the crowd of 80,000 in Notre Dame Stadium. 
“My freshmen year against Georgia Tech [was] the great­est game in the world,” he said. “I come from a school with like 800 people, and the stands hold 1,000 to 2,000. It was mind blowing, crazy. I was nervous like a little girl.” 
During training camp of his sophomore year, Ragone tore his ACL and underwent sea­son-ending surgery. 
“Sophomore year I was ready to play, and I tore my ACL. I had to play through it in training camp, and my knee couldn’t take it anymore, so I had surgery and couldn’t play that year,” he said. “Just over­all, it definitely sets you back. At the same time, it also devel­oped me into the person I am today because I’ve worked so hard to just come back and come back.” 
With the injury, Ragone learned that there is more to life than football. 
“You also have the school end because when [I] have a Notre Dame degree, I will be happy that I went through it. Having a degree at the end, plus football, I mean there’s nothing really better than that.” 
The highlight of Ragone’s athletic career came early in the Washington State game during his junior season. The Cougars blocked an Irish extra point and attempted to return the ball, until Ragone sprinted 
here, and it’s not an easy school. So I had to work harder and harder, which really matured me in a lot of ways,” he said. “Before, I would just be messing around and not taking any­thing seriously. I was just wor­ried about football, and football’s only a game. When I hurt my knee, I real­ized that 

“Before, I would just be messing around and not taking anything seriously. I was just worried about football, and football’s only a game. When I hurt my knee, I realized that there’s a life out there. Just enjoy everything.” 
Mike Ragone senior tight end 
95 yards and came out of nowhere to make the tackle. 
“Washington State, I caught a guy from behind. It was a 95-yard run down the field,” he said. “It was named the play of the game.” 
Prior to Ragone’s sen­ior year, one of the biggest reasons he had chosen Notre Dame — Irish coach And that’s what it came down to. He’s a great coach, com­petitor, and he’s there to help you,” he said. “At first I didn’t know what to think. I wasn’t mad or anything. Coach Kelly’s won everywhere he’s been.” 
Although his athletic career might have been rocky with the injury and coaching change, Ragone has made friendships and memories that he will cherish forever. 
“So many friendships, like in high school, there are so many guys from my state who have come here. [Receiver] Duval Kamara, one of my best friends, [safety] Harrison Smith, [linebacker] Steve Paskorz,” he said. “We’ve just bonded since day one. Hopefully it’ll stay that way the rest of my life.” 
One particular memory stands out from his sophomore year. 
“On Halloween Harrison and I went out after the game, and I dressed up as Scooby-Doo, and he was Shaggy. That was when he had the long hair,” Ragone said. “No one thought that we’d pull it off, and they were the best costumes ever.” 
Ragone said he would never forget about his teammates, even after his career at Notre Dame. 
“I want my teammates to know that I’ll always have their back. No matter what, I’m going to keep riding with them ‘til the day we die.” 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 


there’s a life out there. Just Charlie Weis — was fired, and enjoy everything.” Notre Dame announced Brian That means Ragone enjoys Kelly’s hiring as head coach. the academics, for what they “Weis was always there for are worth. me, and he recruited me. He’s 
“It’s so tough, but it’s awe-like a friend, someone who’s some. My advisors and men-always there, who’s going to tors have really helped me, be at your wedding. It was just standing over [me],” he tough. We all had the same said. “It really pays off in the goal, we all wanted to win. 
“But I think I’m able to do more when I’m involved with more. It’s cool to be able to go from a football practice at the Gug to a lab in Jordan or things like that. I think I’ve seen a broad piece of Notre Dame over the last four years and it’s been great.” 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 

DAN FRANCO 

Notre Dame obvious choice for South Bend WR 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
When senior wide receiver Dan Franco was looking at colleges, he knew he wanted to play football at the Division I level. But for the Granger, Ind., native, playing at Notre Dame was always the ultimate goal. 
“I was looking at a lot of dif­ferent kinds of schools,” Franco said. “I had a lot of offers from smaller schools, Division III schools, but I also had it in my head that I want­ed to go to a Division I school because I want to see what I’m capable of and how I can compare against the best. And even if I’m not the best, I want to know if I could com­pete with the best.” 
In his first season with the Irish, Franco turned in a fine play in practice that proved he could compete with some of the nation’s elite talent when he beat former Irish defensive back Raeshon McNeil for a touchdown in one-on-one drills at practice. 
“Raeshon McNeil was our top cover corner at the time, and he came up expecting David Grimes and instead I show up,” Franco said. “I look over and I’m like ‘I’m ready to go coach, what do you want?’ and he looks at him, looks at me and says ‘[expletive] him, go run a go route.’ So I get to the line, [Irish quarterback] Dayne [Crist] throws the ball, throws it deep, 40-yard touch­down pass. I caught it right at the end. The entire offense swarmed me.” 
A graduate of South Bend’s Clay High School, Franco and his friends dreamed of one day suiting up for the Irish at Notre Dame Stadium while growing up in Michiana. He also has family ties to the school, as his mother graduat­ed from the University with an engineering degree and his father is a psychologist on staff. 
“I’ve been raised on Notre Dame ever since I was young,” Franco said. “Me and all my friends had dreamt about putting on a gold hel­met and the opportunity was there. I’ve really been work­ing my entire life for this opportunity, and I’ve been for­tunate enough to be a part of it.” 


Franco walked on for the Irish in the winter of 2008 after transferring from Indiana University South Bend, and he hasn’t looked back since making the cut under former Irish coach Charlie Weis. 
“I never doubted my deci­sion,” Franco said. “I knew from when I was younger if I could get myself an opportu­nity to go to Notre Dame and actually walk on the team that I was [going to] do everything I could.” 
Since arriving on campus, Franco has become close with his fellow walk-ons, and he says that he’ll miss spending time with his fellow WOPU Nation colleagues once their playing days are over. 
“We have a thing called WOPU Nation, which is what the walk-ons call ourselves — the Walk-On Players Union,” Franco said. “These are the guys who when we first walked on, we’re waking up at like 4:15 in the morning, going through this process five days a week. It was hell, and it was painful, and it was only for guys that really, real­ly wanted it.” 
Franco, a psychology major, plans to graduate after this semester and will look to con­tinue his studies in graduate school and work for a Ph.D. in psychology. He’s mainly focused on social psychology and ultimately hopes to get into sports psychology. 
“It’s really something I’ve been interested in since I was like 10 years old, and I’m planning on going to grad school,” Franco said. “I’m hoping to get into a Ph.D. pro­gram after the semester. It’s always been a passion of mine.” 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 



TAYLOR DEVER 

Competition brings three-year back-up to starter 
By SAM GANS 
Sports Writer 
There is an old saying that competition brings out the best in people. 
Senior offensive tackle Taylor Dever might be the embodiment of that claim. 
After backing up former Irish right tackle Sam Young for three years, Dever began spring practice in a competi­tion for 2010 graduate Young’s vacated spot. Following a tough battle with fellow senior tackle Andrew Nuss, Dever emerged from fall camp as the starter. 
The competition not only was a challenge that made the 6-foot-5-inch, 297-pound Dever better, but was an enjoyable experience for him, as well. 
“The competition was good,” Dever said. “I was at right tackle with Andrew. He’s a great football player. Competition is what football is. It’s so much fun. It makes playing the game worth it. It makes coming to work every day worth it.” 
Since that time, Dever has cemented his position as the starter when healthy, playing an important role in all of the Irish’s contests in which he’s been available. One game in particular that he noticed his play really come together was Sept. 18 in East Lansing. 
“One of my best games was probably at Michigan State,” Dever said. “When we played up there, I just had a good game, as far as assignments and execution goes.” 
On the field is just one area in which Dever has enjoyed Notre Dame. Off the field life has also contributed to his love for the University. 
“There’s definitely a drive and a focus everywhere you go in the classrooms and in the dorms,” Dever said. “There are good people here. They like to have fun and they also like to work hard. That’s something I told myself that I was looking for in college when I was trying to figure out where to go. Away from foot­ball here, it’s been a lot of fun.” 
Dever has thought about his future, but has not made any definitive plans at this point. As he did not play in his fresh­man year, Dever has a fifth year of eligibility remaining, and is likely to use it. He plans to graduate with a degree in marketing, but is unsure of exactly what type of career he’d like to pursue after his playing days and education at Notre Dame are over. Of course, there’s one that is a possibility: the NFL. 
“If that opportunity presents itself and it works out, I’ll go into it with the mindset that I’m going to do the best I can and make everything work to the best of my ability,” Dever said. “There are some things that are out of your control, but I do feel that’s an opportu­nity I have and I’ll take it head on.” 


But to his fans, Dever’s foot­ball experience, social life, education and future career fall well short in importance when matched up with this question: What’s up with the long, luscious locks of hair? 
“I am from California and people often give me grief because of that and I just decided to start growing it out,” he said. “It’s been two years. In 2008, right before the Hawaii Bowl at the end of the season, was when I decid­ed (to grow it out) and just kind of stuck with it since.” 
While Dever’s hair length may be all in fun, results on the football field aren’t as much of a laughing matter. 
“Obviously playing football at Notre Dame, there’s always going to be the eyes (watch­ing), the pressures and expec­tations,” he said. “This is my senior year and I’ve been here for four years now and I’ve been through a lot of ups and downs. I’ve had experiences that are good and bad. But we’ve always continued to fight, which I think is some­thing you’ve got to do in foot­ball and in life.” 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu 

By MICHAEL TODISCO Sports Writer  Notre Dame is outstanding,” Paskorz said. Paskorz entered Notre Dame  both of them,” he said. “I enjoyed talking to them when they came through here [during  wouldn’t have an impact on the field for this season, Paskorz said he decided to try to make a  but he also just talks to me and tells me his story which is really interesting.”  
Notre Dame football is defined by tradition — the gleaming golden helmets of the Fighting Irish carry with them decades of pride and success. For senior linebacker Steve Paskorz, this is what lured him to the University. “The name and tradition that comes along with playing for  as a highly touted prospect, in a group with the likes of Jimmy Clausen and Golden Tate, and he said he looks back fondly on the relationships formed with his fellow recruits. “Not only were those guys leaders on the field but they were great people off the field, and I was real good friends with  their bye week] for games this year and catching up and having fun with them.” A highlight of Paskorz’s career came during his sophomore year, in which he established himself as a strong special teams player. “I would say the defining moment was the Hawaii Bowl,”  positive impact on the team in other ways. Paskorz has tried to take the underclassmen under his wing and share his experi­ences with them. “I stay around and talk to the younger guys and try to help them out, and mentor them, with what I know and what I’ve been through,” Paskorz said. “I  Paskorz has embraced the coaching change from Charlie Weis to Brian Kelly. He laments his injury that precluded him from fully competing under and learning from the new coach. “When I was still good I had the opportunity to play but it was just a shame that I got hurt,” Paskorz said. “I really  
he said.  “We  do what I can  enjoy his coaching style and the  
really  had  off the field to  type of coach that he is.”  
fun,  plus  it  help the guys  But Paskorz hopes that he  
was a unique experience to get out there  “It’s been really frustrating only being able  on the field.” P a s k o r z said he has  may have one more year left under Coach Kelly. Since he did not play in his freshman season  
and see Hawaii.” P a s k o r z c o n t i n u e d  to watch my senior season. Possibly the last time I have the chance to  met influen­tial people at Notre Dame who helped  and was injured for his senior year, Paskorz still has NCAA eli­gibility. If things don’t work out playing football though, Paskorz  
playing spe­cial teams during his  go out on the field might slip away.”  shape his f o o t b a l l career. While  said he may take some time to enjoy his other passion. “Hopefully I can come back  
junior season, and seemed  Steve Paskorz  he stressed that he  and play for a fifth year,” he said. “If I don’t get a fifth year  
prime to take  senior linebacker  e  n  j  o y  e  d  then take some time off. I’m a  
on  a  bigger  learning from  big outdoorsman, and I’d love to  
role as a sen- the coaching  travel and go hunting and fish­ 
ior under the  staff,  espe­ ing, just relax a bit.”  
new coaching regime. However,  cially  strength  coach  Paul  Whatever the future holds for  
after tearing his ACL, Paskorz  Luongo, Paskorz’s time at Notre  Paskorz, he will always remem­ 
has spent his senior season on  Dame afforded him the opportu­ ber the unique experience of  
the sideline, which was aggra­ nity  to work with  a  legend:  being  a Notre Dame football  
vating for the Allison Park, Pa.  Former Notre Dame standout  player.  
native.  and  a  member of the Super  “When people come up and  
“It’s been really frustrating  Bowl I champion Green Bay  talk to you and ask, ‘You look  
only being able to watch my  Packers team Red Mack has  like you play football player,  
senior  season,”  he  said.  taken an interest in Paskorz.  where do you play?’ Being able  
“Possibly the last time I have the  “Red Mack actually graduated  to  say  that  I  play  at  the  
chance to go out on the field  from my high school, and when  University of Notre Dame is truly  
might slip away without even  he comes to a game or attends  special.”  
Courtesy of Lighthouse Imaging  having a chance to play; it’s kind  practices he always gives me  
Senior linebacker Steve Paskorz may come back for one more  of depressing.”  advice,” Paskorz said. “He lets  Contact Michael Todisco at  
season with the Irish after tearing his ACL this season.  Once  he  realized  that  he  me know what I’m doing wrong,  mtodisco@nd.edu  

STEVE PASKORZ 

TornACLleaves Paskorz on sideline for senior year 

Graphic Illustration by Blair Chemidlin 


Season’s front-runners meet for title shot 
By MATT DEFRANKS 
Sports Writer 
A year after the bottom two seeds battled for the men’s inter-hall football championship, No. 1 Dillon will take on No. 2 Sorin in Notre Dame Stadium as heavy­weights meet with the title on the line. 
Almost mirror images of each other, both Dillon (6-0) and Sorin (5-1) won the closest games of their respective seasons last week in the semifinals. Dillon came from behind to drop two-time defending cham­pion Siegfried while Sorin capi­season. 
“They are great players, always the first ones to practice working on routes,” Smith said. “[Fink’s] accuracy is great and [Salvi] runs the best routes I’ve seen and he gets the ball at the highest point.” 
On the ground, sophomore run­ning back Terry Howard — com­ing off a 122-yard performance against Siegfried — leads the charge. 
“He always runs hard, the first guy can never bring him down,” Smith said. “The success on the ground is because of the great 
play by the 
offensive line. 
They come off 
the ball really 
well.” 

talized on a failed two-point conver­sion to triumph  “We have a game plan ready for this week.”  While the offense aver­ages nearly 20  
over Alumni.  points  per  
Not only was it  Michael Browder  game,  the  
the closest game of the season, but  Sorin senior captain  Dillon defense is also solid.  
also  the  lowest  Last  week’s  
scoring output of  lone  touch- 
the year for the  down  by  
Big  Red,  who  Siegfried were  

turned the ball over twice in a the first points given up by the game the first time all year. Big Red defense since Oct. 10 
“We’re not worried [about last against Stanford. game], our offense clicked,” “Our defense is underrated. Dillon senior captain Jordan We’ve given up four touchdowns Smith said. “We had a lot of all year,” Smith said. penalties and two turnovers.” The Big Red will have their 
On offense, the Big Red feature hands full with a Sorin offense freshman quarterback Kevin Fink averaging over 16 points a game and sophomore wide receiver during their five-game winning Will Salvi as part of an aerial streak. attack that propelled Dillon all “I’ve watched a few Sorin games and they have some play-makers on offense,” Smith said. 
Senior running back and cap­tain Michael Browder, along with junior fullback Matthew Pepe, sophomore quarterback Ted Spinelli and sophomore wide receiver Ryan Robinson, lead the Otters’ attack. 
“[Robinson] has been great all year, he’s quite the player,” Browder said. “Although I think he’s slightly overhyped.” 
Before being cooled off by Alumni last week, the Sorin offense had been on fire, racking up 60 points over their previous three games. 
“We’re not particularly worried about our performance last game,” Browder said. “We have a game plan ready for this week.” 
After managing only 25 totals yards in the second half last week, Sorin now faces a defense that has not given up more than eight points in a single game this year while holding two teams scoreless. 
The Otters’ defense, having also recorded two shutouts this year, held Alumni to six points — and even that was surprising. 
The Dawg touchdown was the first one scored on the Sorin defense since Sept. 26 against Fisher. The Sorin defense also features nine of their offensive starters, making their dominance even more impressive. 
Electrifying offenses and stingy defenses, however, aren’t the only similarities with these two squads. Both teams struggled early, hit their strides midseason, and played in semifinal thrillers last week. Both teams have young quarterbacks with young go-to receivers. Both teams have defenses that are averaging less than five points allowed per game. Both teams will be playing in Notre Dame Stadium Sunday. 

But only one will be crowned champion. 
The Otters and the Big Red square off at 1 p.m. 
Contact Matt DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 

Three Robinson siblings make Stadium a family affair 
hood games, all three Robinsons fighting for 5-1 No. 2 Sorin age. said. 
By SAM GANS 

echoed two words simultaneously, against No. 1 Dillon. They have all “We played driveway basketball As for the matchups themselves, 
Sports Writer 

as if rehearsed: “very competi-played key roles and numerous until we just got too old and too Ryan is respectful of Dillon, but tive.” positions, filling any spot neces-physical for that,” Kaitlin said. confident. 
When sitting down with Kaitlin, That drive has carried on to sary in the pursuit of victories. “Then it got banned.” “They have a pretty good team, Ryan and Clare Robinson, three their time at Notre Dame, as all Clare, a freshman, has played The memories of the intensity of but we do, too,” he said. “It should siblings all vying for an interhall three will be playing in the inter-safety, and even moved to the those games stay with the be a good game.” championship, the must-win hall championships in Notre offensive line last game. Kaitlin, a Robinsons, though, in the form of The women’s side is not as nature they share is evident from Dame Stadium this Sunday. senior, plays several positions, but physical reminders. friendly, after a bitter champi­the very first question. Kaitlin and Clare will be battling primarily lines up at wide receiver “Ryan has scars and I have onship game last year between 
When asked how serious they for No. 1 Howard against No. 2 and linebacker. Ryan, a sopho-chipped teeth,” Kaitlin said. Howard and Pasquerilla West, were as kids playing neighbor-Pasquerilla West and Ryan will be more, plays wide receiver, tight But don’t ask them any specific which Howard won. end, defensive end and linebacker. tales — what happens in the “There’s animosity,” Clare said. “We pretty much go wherever backyard stays in the backyard. “It’ll be pretty physical.” the team needs us,” Kaitlin said. “[There are no stories] that we Kaitlin added: “There are some 
Each sibling made key plays in can say,” Ryan said. “That’s deep, personal stories between Howard the semifinals. Against Pangborn, dark family secrets.” and PW. They are a good team, Kaitlin was the spy on the Phoxes’ The Robinsons are a true Notre but we’re just excited to go back playmaker, Gabby Tate, limiting Dame family. The three currently to the Stadium and win again.” her impact, and Clare had an enrolled have a younger sister, Ultimately, Sunday’s games will important sack on a fourth-and-Molly, a high school student who be a contest not just against the goal, helping lead a Duck (6-0) hopes to attend Notre Dame. They opponent, but against each other. romp. Ryan had a catch for also have a little brother, Jack, a “I think it’s still a competition,” Sorin’s only touchdown in the second grader who is a big Irish Clare said. “If he wins and we Otters’ 7-6 win over Alumni. fan. The family love for Notre don’t, then we’re number two.” 
Because of those efforts, they’re Dame was spurred in large part In the end, Kaitlin and Clare all playing in the Stadium Sunday. by their father, who attended the wish no ill will towards their 
The Robinsons’ passion for ath-University. brother. letics did not begin at Notre “We grew up with Notre Dame,” “We still want Sorin to win,” Dame. Rather, it started in a back-Kaitlin said. “Some people got Kaitlin said. yard. sung lullabies, and we got sung Ryan doesn’t share those feel­
“We’re really close in age, so we the Notre Dame fight song.” ings. had a lot of overlapped friend Family members will be watch-“I don’t really care [how they groups playing backyard sports,” ing the games in Notre Dame do] as long as we win,” he said. Ryan said. “Touch football got Stadium this weekend. Typical siblings. pretty intense.” “We’ve got a big family in 
One sport, in particular, was Chicago and a lot of them are Contact Sam Gans at heated, especially as they grew in coming for the games,” Kaitlin sgans@nd.edu 


Allan Joseph 
Interhall Editor 

Dillon and Sorin have been the clear front-runners all sea-
If there’s one thing I’ve learned about interhall football in the son long, so it doesn’t surprise me that they’re meeting this 
two years I’ve been involved with it, it is that the men’s game is weekend in the Stadium with the big shiny trophy on the line. 
usually decided by big plays. The defenses usually are able to It’s really difficult to pick between these two teams. Terry 
keep offenses from putting together sustained drives, and the Howard has been fantastic on the ground for Dillon, while Ted 
lack of a kicking game means teams usually find themselves Spinelli has led a high-flying Otter attack. Both squads field 
playing for a touchdown. This will be a huge factor in this game, stout defenses as well. 
as both teams have big-play passing games. The outcome will probably come down to a crucial break 
Kevin Fink and Ted Spinelli have been running these offenses for one team, and Sorin’s reliance on the aerial attack could 
all season, and they’ll get a chance to face off against each other come back to haunt them if an errant pass turns into a on Sunday. The game will almost certainly come down to one turnover. As last year’s championship showed, the Stadium big pass play on either side. I think the combination of Spinelli to game is usually won on the ground, and I think the Big Red the vertical receiving threat Ryan Robinson will be enough to edge Sorin in a championship game for the ages. give Sorin the victory, but Fink and Dillon won’t make it easy. 

Chris Allen 
Interhall Editor 
FINAL SCORE: Dillon 20, Sorin 17 FINAL SCORE: Sorin 13, Dillon 7 
Purple Weasels, Ducks fight for title again 
By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer 
Two teams with a history will meet again Sunday when No. 1 Howard takes on No. 2 Pasquerilla West in Notre Dame Stadium with another interhall championship on the line. 
In last year’s championship game, the Ducks (6-0) were able to outlast the Purple Weasels (6­
0) 13-7 in a tension-filled contest. Howard grabbed a first-half 13-0 lead, and was able to hold the explosive Purple Weasel offense to just one touchdown the rest of the way. Howard senior captain and quarterback Kayla Bishop remembers it well. 
“It was very close and really hard fought on both sides. Our defense helped us hold on in the second half, and we were able to win the game,” Bishop said. 
Pasquerilla West senior captain Libby Koerbel, on the other hand, said she hopes to learn from what went wrong last year. 
“We came out super hyped up. We were really confident, and expected to score right away,” Koerbel said. “That didn’t hap­pen, and we got really down. It was hard to come back after that.” 
This year, the Ducks are unde­feated once again, and once again hold the top seed after dominating Blue League play. In fact, Howard has won 15 straight games, with its last loss coming over two years ago at the hands of, of course, Pasquerilla West. 
Howard advanced to this point by easily besting a tough Pangborn squad last week, 31-0. Bishop believes that win was her team’s best effort yet. 
“Last week showed us how good we can be at picking apart a defense and finding holes in their zone,” Bishop said. “And our defense stepped up as always, especially in the red zone.” 
The Purple Weasels, on the other hand, have prevailed in close contests in their first two rounds, defeating Lewis and McGlinn by a combined seven points. While these margins may have been slim, Koerbel believes that her team is continuing to improve its play. 
“Against Lewis, we played ter­rible. Our defense was slow, and our offense was pretty much ane­mic,” Koerbel said. “I feel really good about our defense after last week, though. Our defense was on the field for about 80 percent of the game, but we got some big stops, and our defensive linemen played great, especially [sopho­more defensive lineman] Meghan Schmitt. She played unbeliev­able.” 
Pasquerilla West will need that defense to step up again against the wide-open spread offense of Howard, which is averaging over 21 points a game. 
On the other side of the ball, the Purple Weasels will attempt to move the ball using their mis­directing triple-option scheme that has carried them thus far. That offense is led by senior quarterback Simone Bigi, who must read the defense and deter­mine how to attack it on each play. 
“The triple option really gives us a lot more versatility, and real­ly forces the defense to stay on their toes and stay home,” Bigi said. “The reason it’s been so successful so far is our coach, Tim Bossidy. He helped to imple­ment the offense and is really responsible for developing me as a quarterback.” 
The outcome of the game may very well rest on the Ducks’ abili­ty to stop the triple option, which is unlike anything they have seen this year. But while the Purple Weasels’ scheme may be new to Howard, Bishop believes that her Ducks will be able to stop it. 
“We’re really going to rely on our defensive linemen and line­backers to follow the ball and make plays. Flag pulling will be key,” Bishop said. “We’re expect­ing a lot out of junior defensive lineman Jenny Gassner and jun­ior safety Caroline Walsh. Bigi has got a great arm for them, and we need Caroline to keep them from going deep.” 
At the end of the day, both teams said they believe that their team unity will carry them to vic­tory. 

“Even though our dorm may be large, we’re really close on and off the field. Everything is so close to clicking for us, and I think it will all come together on Sunday,” Koerbel said. 
Bishop echoed a similar senti­ment. 
“Last year, we proved that we are capable of winning a champi­onship, even from a dorm as small as Howard. I think that gave our girls confidence in themselves,” Bishop said. “For us seniors it’s been a great four years, and it’s kind of surreal that it’s coming to a close. There’s no better way to go out though, then in another championship game in the Stadium.” 
Kickoff will be 11 a.m. Sunday. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at 
wheffero@nd.edu 


Talented quarterbacks and friends face off one last time 
ed, trophy in hand, tears in her back, said. winging it in the huddle,” the San leticism. 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 

eyes, wondering if she had ever It’s not the walk through the Antonio native said. “We look for “We take what natural talent we 
Sports Writer 

felt anything like it. The other left same tunnel that Lou Holtz and matchups that we can take advan-are given and use it to our advan­dejected, grit in hand, tears in her Joe Montana once trekked tage of during the game and take tage,” the captain said. “Being in a 
Darkness engulfed the two eyes, wondering if she had left it through or the view of Notre Dame whatever the defense gives us.” small dorm, we naturally have friends, greeted by silence and all on the field. Stadium from the field that Bigi Growing up in Texas, football great chemistry that translates to anxiety, with a single light at the One year later, the two friends recalls from 2009. She remembers served as just another facet of life the football field.” end of the banner-filled tunnel. meet again, with the same stakes losing in the championship game to Bishop, who insists that she Even with the intense rivalry The closer they came to the light, on the line but with another twist to Howard and watching them knew how to call penalties before growing larger each year, the two the farther the darkness went, to the story. walk off the field with her trophy, she could speak in sentences. friends hold each other in high before treading onto the most hal-Simone Bigi remembers last sea-something that she said drives her “I always wanted to play football esteem, knowing that just reaching lowed grounds ever known to col-son’s women’s interhall champi-to finish what she started this since I was a little girl,” Bishop the finals is an accomplishment. lege football. onship game vividly, summing it Sunday against Howard. said. “My sister would want to play “Kayla is nearly perfect under 
A mere hour later, it was all up in one word: “losing.” “I will do whatever I can to not dolls while I preferred to throw the pressure and I really admire the over. “Something was off,” Bigi, No. 2 feel like that again,” she said. “I football around in the yard.” way she plays the game,” Bigi 
One left through the tunnel elat-Pasquerilla West’s senior quarter-am going to give everything that I Bigi, who didn’t become the said. have to win this game, at any Purple Weasels’ quarterback until Bishop echoed those sentiments, cost.” last year, also grew up enamored when asked about her former 
For the second straight year, Bigi with playing football. teammate. will match up with No. 1 Howard “I would always go to sports “[Simone] plays with such inten­quarterback Kayla Bishop, a for-camps and love throwing the foot-sity that she isn’t afraid of any-mer co-rec teammate, who has a ball,” she said. “I also grew up thing, which is something that we different memory of last year’s with two brothers who made sure respect entirely,” Bishop said. finale. I didn’t throw like a girl.” “And we expect [Pasquerilla West] 
“I remember running out of that Nevertheless, the time spent to come out with a lot of passion tunnel and playing in an incredibly practicing as a youth has turned and enthusiasm.” hard-fought game,” the senior Bigi into a premier quarterback On Sunday, the two quarter-said. who has taken Pasquerilla West backs will experience their own 
Bishop has taken the Ducks to (6-0) to two straight championship individual sense of déjà vu. the playoffs in each of the past four games, utilizing the deceptive Walking out of the tunnel just as years, winning the championship triple-option as the Purple they did last year, one will hope to last year for the first time. Bishop Weasels’ weapon of choice. start a dynasty while the other will captains the Howard aerial attack, “[The triple-option] keeps the hope to exact her revenge in “Bigi which scored all 31 of its points defense honest because they don’t vs. Bishop II;” but no matter what, through the air on a talented know whether we are going to both say they will remain friends, Pangborn defense last week in the pass or run,” Bigi said. “When with memories of this day that will semifinals to punch their return things click on offense, we are last a lifetime. ticket to the Stadium. unstoppable.” 
“Our offense is very flexible, to Meanwhile, Bishop attributes Contact Andrew Gastelum at the point where we are almost her offense’s success to pure ath-agastel1@nd.edu 


Allan Joseph 
Interhall Editor 


The rematch storyline is too good to ignore, but last year’s 
This game has all the makings of an epic showdown. First of game won’t have much effect on this year’s contest. If any-
all, you have the rematch aspect. No matter who you talk to from thing, it should only make the game that much closer, as both 
either dorm, the players all agree that there is some bad blood teams have experienced the thrill of walking down the tunnel 
between these two teams that dates back to last year. Second, before. I certainly expect nothing less than a contest that goes 
these were clearly the best two teams in women’s interhall all down to the wire. 
season. Howard breezed through the playoffs, while Pasquerilla Pasquerilla West’s triple option is extremely well-executed, 
West has demonstrated a penchant for late-game defensive and as every Notre Dame fan knows all too well, that can 
stands against upstart teams like Lewis and McGlinn. make for an offensive explosion. On the other side, Kayla 
The one thing that sticks in my mind from last year is the way Bishop is a dynamo for the Duck attack. If the Purple Weasels that the Pasquerilla West players reacted with such devastation can contain her, they’ll be well on their way to exacting after they lost in the Stadium last year. I just can’t imagine that revenge for last year. As I see it, though, she’s just too evasive Bigi and the rest of the Weasels’ senior leaders will let it happen for that to happen. Different season, same result. again. Pasquerilla West wins in a classic. 
FINAL SCORE: Howard 27, Pasquerilla West 21 FINAL SCORE: Pasquerilla West 21, Howard 20 






