the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Campus pleased with Kelly’s Irish 
Momentum of spread offense, sharper defense highlight first game of season, new era 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
Assistant News Editor 
As the final seconds counted down Saturday in Notre Dame Stadium signaling a 23-12 vic­tory for the Irish over the Purdue Boilermakers, students were cheering for more than the first win of the season. 
They were cheering for a reenergized team, a possible return to glory and, more than all else, hope for the Brian Kelly era at Notre Dame. 
Although the Irish did not deliver the blowout debut many fans were hoping for, Notre Dame’s first game under the coaching of Brian Kelly left many students pleased with the improvement and opti­mistic about the upcoming sea­son. 
“I was very impressed with Brian Kelly’s coaching,” junior Mike Cole said. “He definitely focused on the fundamentals that were lacking beforehand and it was obvious the team had improved.” 
Statistically, the Fighting Irish did well. Junior quarter­back Dayne Crist threw for 205 yards and one touchdown, while senior running back Armando Allen ran for 93 yards and a touchdown under Kelly’s newly installed spread offense. The new offensive style had many students wor­ried that the team would not be able to adapt to a no-huddle approach, but after Saturday’s game, many of those doubts have been eliminated. 
“The spread offense was very effective in opening up the field for the run, and it really allowed Armando Allen to be effective,” junior Maurice Baynard said. 
Sophomore Natalie Baumann said she was “concerned” about the spread offense going into the season, but now she thinks it is working out well for the team if they continue to play to their potential. 
“The no-huddle really keeps all the players on their toes and keeps the momentum going,” she said. “I think it also allowed a lot of the new play­ers to step up and be instru­mental to the plays on the field.” 
The Irish defense, an area that has famously plagued the team for years, appeared solid. The Irish had four sacks and two interceptions against Purdue’s quarterback Robert Marve. Students said they were thrilled with the strength pre­sented by the defensive line­men. 
“Kelly knows we’re going to have a good offense because of the spread and the talent we have on that line,” junior Jack Heinrich said. “It’s clear he’s been working with the defense because we’ve always had good defensive players, but he’s working with them and improving the talent we have on that line.” 
On the whole, Irish fans were pleased with the results of Saturday’s game and expressed hope that the victory is a signal of something momentous about the rest of 
see GAME/page 3 

DAN JACOBS/The Observer Leprechaun Dave Zimmer fips in the air at Notre Dame Stadium Saturday. 


Between the Buns recognized by ESPN 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
While many students may be more familiar with places like The Linebacker Lounge, Club Fever or Corby’s Irish Pub, it was another local bar that recently gained national atten­tion in ESPN’s Search for North America’s Best Sports Bar. 
Although Between the Buns, a South Bend hotspot on Notre Dame home football Saturdays, was not voted as the No. 1 sports bar on the continent, ESPN did select the 25-year­old establishment to be a part of the top eight finalists. 
“We do a lot of stuff a good sports bar should do and we do it right,” Dave Pestrak, cor­porate representative for Between the Buns, said. 
Pestrak, who was responsi­ble for entering the bar into the ESPN contest, said he sub­mitted a one-page essay explaining why he thought Between the Buns should be crowned the best sports bar in North America. 
“We have TVs in every booth, so you can tune in and listen to your game of choice,” he said. “For being a local sports bar, we do have a quite a bit to 
see BUNS/page 4 



Students robbed at gunpoint 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Editor 
Three Notre Dame students were robbed at gunpoint in their off-campus home Thursday night and, accord­ing to one of the students, lost $3,000 worth of posses­sions. 
All three residents were in the home on the 1100 Block of East Sorin Street at the time, but only one was down­stairs when two men rang the doorbell and entered the home. One of them had a rifle. 
One of the victims, a sec-ond-year law student, said he had gone upstairs for a moment when he heard the doorbell ring. The Observer will not name the three stu­dents because they are vic­tims of a crime. 
“When I came down I saw a man with a rifle on my couch looking through things,” he said. “I asked the guy what he was doing there. He told me to get on the ground immediately … so I got down on the ground.” 
Another student, a Notre Dame junior, was already on the ground in the kitchen, he said, while the other, a senior, was not on the ground floor and was unaware of the inva­sion. The two burglars repeatedly asked where the money was and went upstairs to take several possessions before leaving the house, the student said. 
According to South Bend Police logs, the robbery was a home invasion and robbery by suspects armed with a rifle. 
The police log lists a cell phone, wallet, backpack, two iPods and three computers among the stolen items. 
Two of the residents also lived at the home during the 2009-10 school year. One of them said neighbors say there have been numerous robberies on their street, but they always felt comfortable living there. 
“I’d never felt unsafe in my own house,” he said. “I’ve talked to neighbors and it just seems like … they say this is the worst that it’s ever been.” 
Police arrived at the house 
see ROBBERY/page 4 

Three incidences of sexual assault reported 
Observer Staff Report 
Two sexual assaults were 
r e p o rted  to  N o t re D a me  
S e c ur i t y  P o l i c e  ( N DSP )  
Sunday.  

The first report was of a possible sexual assault com­mitted in a campus residence hall Saturday morning between 12:30 a.m. and 2 
a.m. The student body was alerted in an e-mail Sunday morning. 
The second report, which was unrelated to the first, was reported Sunday night. The alleged sexual assault was said to have occurred in a parking area on the east side of campus Saturday around 3 p.m. 
These reports were the third this week. NDSP previously sent a campus-wide e-mail about a sexual assault that was committed by an acquain­tance in a campus residence hall Aug. 31. 
To report a crime in progress, suspicious activity, fire or medical emergency, dial 574-631-5555 from a cell phone or dial 911 from any campus phone. 
For information about sexu­al assault prevention and resources for survivors of sex­ual assault, go to NDSP’s web­site at ndsp.nd.edu or the Office of Student Affairs’ web­site at csap.nd.edu 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Students teach local children page 3  Career fair fashion guide page 8  Men’s soccer ties California page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, September 6, 2010 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 djacobs1@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Amanda Gray Chris Masoud Sam Stryker Matthew Robison Sara Felsenstein Joe Wirth 

Graphics Scene 
Melissa Kaduck Maija Gustin 

Photo Viewpoint 
Pat Coveney Ren Brauweiler 


CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD YOU SAY TO BRIAN KELLY? 






Quinn Cully  Tyler Andersen  Eric Keppeler  Claire Bourbonnais  Maria Tringali  Johnny Romano  
sophom ore  sophom ore  junior  sophom ore  junior  freshm an  
K eough  K eough  K eough  M cG linn  H oly Cross  D illon  
“G o Irish!Beat  “PutRudy in!”  “The defense  “Good gam e!I  “Sw eetVictory!  “Ilike your new  
W olfpack!”  should tackle  hope the w inning  Excited for  tradition ofthe  
m ore baby  continues.”  som e m ore  players w alking  
rhinos.”  w ins.”  through the  
stands.”  


PAT COVENEY/The Observer University President Fr. John Jenkins, Athletic Director Jack Swarbrick and Irish quarterback Dayne Crist join the celebration on the field after the Irish victory over Purdue Saturday. 


OFFBEAT 
Painted horses improve Russian road safety 
MOSCOW — Traffic police in Moscow offered rides on horses and ponies painted as zebras Friday in an attempt to improve road safety and raise awareness among Russia’s notoriously careless drivers. 
The police dispatched the fake zebras to several dif­ferent locations in the Russian capital, where offi­cials in orange vests walked them over zebra crossings and handed out flyers to passing drivers. 
Some held up rainbow­coloured umbrellas over the painted animals to pro­tect them from the rain, footage aired on television showed. 
Russian roads are notori­ously dangerous and driv­ers still rarely give way to pedestrians. 
French balloonists to repeat flight 100 years later 
NANCY, France — Three hot air balloonists will set off from Nancy in eastern France on Sunday in a bid to reach England, and retrace a route only ever travelled by a French woman adventurer a cen­tury ago. 
“I told myself one day I had to do it again,” said Benoit Pelard, one of the balloonists, about the 1909 ballon trip by Marie Marvingt, a woman the Chicago Tribune once dubbed “the most extraor­dinary lady since Joan of Arc”. 
For the 21st-century trip, hotel manager Pelard will be joined by two experi­enced balloonists, Laurent Lajoye and world gas bal­loon champion Sebastien Rolland. 
They are keeping a close eye on the weather fore­cast, as the team need a southeasterly wind, rare in the Lorraine region, to carry them on a journey that should take between 24 and 36 hours.no set destination in mind. 
at night and nearly 2000 metres in the day, with the sea as the main danger since the trio are equipped with a radio and GPS sys­tem, but no lifeboat. 
Today Tonight Tuesday wednesday 




Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
Eliezer Kit, professor of mechanical engineering at Tel Aviv University, will present the next installment in the Environmental Fluid Dynamics Seminar Series Tuesday at 11 
a.m. in Fitzpatrick Hall room 258. 
A blood drive sponsored by Notre Dame’s ROTC and the American Red Cross will take place in the LaFortune Ballroom Wednesday from 12 

p.m. to 6 p.m. 
Shakespeare at Notre Dame presents Actors From The London Stage — a self-directed ensemble of five professional British actors — as they stage “A Midsummer Night’s Dream,” this Wednesday at 7:30 p.m. at Washington Hall. Tickets are available at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center ticket office or by calling 574-631­2800 or visiting performin­garts.nd.edu. 
Steve Hayman, Apple national consulting engineer, will discuss and demonstrate how individu­als and institutions are building innovative mobile applications for the iPhone and iPod Touch in his seminar Thursday at 3 p.m. in room 105 of the Jordan Hall of Science 
John Matthias will perform his poem-drama, “Ballet Mécanique,” with the voices of Joyelle McSweeney and Stephen Fredman, and image and sound by Chris Jara, at 5 p.m. Thursday in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. The poem was originally published online and eventually in Matthias’ book, Working Progress/Working Title. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

thursday friday 

Monday, September 6, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 






Students teach fifth graders 
By CAITLYN KALSCHEUR 
News Writer 
As an outreach project to get more involved with local South Bend youth, the College of Engineering first-year students held a techno­logical discovery day called “I2D2 —Imagi nati on, Innovation, Discovery and Design at Notre Dame.” 
The event was held Friday at Stepan Center and wel­comed nearly 350 students from the South Bend Community School Corporation to campus. The afternoon aimed at answer­ing two questions engineers deal with most: “Why do things work the way they do?” and “How do we make them work better?” 
“The kids like anything where they get to make something or work with something,” Karen Hunter, a South Bend teacher, said. “It’s exciting for them to see projects from start to finish.” 
For part of the afternoon, the engineers and fifth ­graders broke into small groups to work with LEGOs and to give the youth a 

Game 
continued from page 1 
the season. 
“It was a good start to a hopefully good season,” Heinrich said. “Obviously the players are happy and want to work harder and play harder, but I think everyone needs to take it one game at a chance to talk with the older students about anything from building a LEGO coconut to what it’s like to go to college. 
“This is a day in class for us right now, just sitting her playing LEGOs with you,” freshman Erik Jenson said to students. 
The older students were able to act as mentors to the youth, who learned about energy and motion as well as how scientists and engineers design, build and test their experiments. 
“Today is really fun, but playing with the LEGOs is the best part,” fifth grader Taylor Pangallo said. 
The students participated in the Irish Pet Project and the 2010 Domer Freewheeling Derby. The activities had students brain­storming ideas for robotic pets and building and racing LEGO vehicles. 
“My favorite part of today was building and racing a car,” fifth grader Martha Alsip said. “It was really cool.” 
Hunter said her students were excited for the field trip, but they relaxed once 
time.” 
Baumann said she is going to continue to be optimistic, but also realistic about what we can and cannot do. 
“We have a big game with Michigan this week and I think that’s going to be more of a test,” she said. 
Regardless of students try­ing to not get their hopes up about the rest of the season, many say it is apparent Kelly they were placed in smaller groups with the engineering students. 
“It’s important for the kids to be able to visualize what they’re learning,” she said. “They very much look up to them.” 
John Enszer, an instructor in the First Year Engineering Department, said he hopes I2D2 becomes an annual event. 
“It’s exciting to have fifth graders talking to college kids,” he said. “It’s a chance for them to meet role models and it’s a chance for Notre Dame students to interact with the community.” 
Hunter said it is more than an educational field trip to the students. 
“It’s an ongoing incentive to go to college,” she said. 
After experiencing a day like this, students like Pangallo think college must be cool and it gets that thought in the back of their mind. 
“I can’t wait until I get to go to school here,” said Pangallo. 
Contact Caitlyn Kalscheur at ckalsche@nd.edu 
and the revitalized team have awoken something within the student body. 
“Brian Kelly has brought a new spirit to this team and to this campus,” sophomore Christina Mezes said. “The energy from the team has fed into the student body and everyone is excited.” 

Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 


STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 


SMC government sets goals for coming year 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
“The sky is the limit” is the new motto for this year’s Saint Mary’s Student Government Association (SGA). 
President Rachael Chesley and vice president Laura Smith, both seniors, said their main goals for this year are to establish transparent and effective communication between student clubs and SGA and to be a strong advo­cate for the students. 
“I think one of the biggest things is that SGA is kind of the umbrella organization for clubs on campus,” Smith said. “Our big point is to really communicate effectively with them so that they know they can come to us, or if they have any questions or need resources, we have commis­sioners to represent the stu­dents of the college.” 
SGA is focusing on commu­nication between clubs. There will be a club social event where club presidents and vice presidents will be able to interact. This way they will be able to have a basis to collab­orate on events and meetings, Smith said. 
In regard to the communica­tion between student govern­ment and clubs, Chesley and Smith have developed a 
f i na nce  co mm i t t e e ,  a  new  
s u b-com m i t t e e  of  t h e  SG A  
board.  

In the past, clubs presented their cases to the big board at the weekly meetings for fund­ing from SGA, but the finance committee will now review these cases. 
“We kind of realized that [the old system] was wasting time, because the big board wasn’t able to really focus on the needs of the student body,” Smith said. “They were just handing out money every week.” 
Chesley and Smith said they hope this will allow the big board to focus on other press­ing issues of the student body. 
“We want SGA to become known for sponsoring clubs, but also really being an advo­cate for the student body on issues such as [the co-exchange meal program],” Smith said. 
The finance committee will consist of the executive presi­dent, vice president, treasurer and secretary, the chief of staff and the campus clubs commissioner. The committee meets once a week. 
New bylaws were estab­lished with the creation of the new committee. If students believe they deserve more than the committee has allot­ted, there is an appeals process in which the clubs can appeal to the SGA board at the weekly SGA meetings. 
“We are trying to make everything really fluid and fair,” Chesley said. 
Meg Griffin, the treasurer of the committee, will be hosting a financial seminar for the first time where all of the clubs treasurers and one other executive member are required to attend. They will go over how to fill out allot­ment fund forms, require ­ments for asking for funds and fundraising ideas. 
“Overall, we have on estab­lished goal: to take action,” Chesley said. 
Currently, SGA is doing its part with the co-ex issue. The co-exchange program, which used to give 75 meal tickets daily on a first-come, first-serve basis to Saint Mary’s students to dine on Notre Dame’s campus, changed at the beginning of the school year, placing more restrictions on who could get the passes. 
“We have met twice with Karen Johnson [vice president of Student Affairs] since we found out about the situation the Saturday before classes began,” Chesley said. “We have also contacted Notre Dame Food Services but are waiting to hear back from them to set up a meeting to further discuss the issue.” 
There will be an open forum Tuesday at 6:30 p.m. where Johnson and Barry Bowles, director of dining services. will be able to address stu­dents’ questions. 
“I know how aggravating of a situation it is, but I hope that people come [to the forum] in the most mature, respectful manner possible,” Chesley said. We are hoping that students will come; we know they are angry and upset.” 
Smith agreed and said stu­dents should present their thoughts in a collective man­ner so they can be heard. 
One new addition to SGA is the international commission­er, who will act as a liaison between SGA and the interna­tional and transfer students. 
Chesley and Smith have optimism for SGA’s role in the current school year. 
“We are having a blast so far,” Chesley said. “It’s been challenging, but fun. We are excited to see what we can accomplish this year.” 
The co-ex situation was not the smoothest of starts, but it has provided an opportunity for SGA to demonstrate their support for the student body, she said. 
Chesley and Smith said they believe all of their initiatives this early in the semester will provide a foundation for this year. 
“Once we get the clubs their budgets for the year, and the financial board going, we can really hit the ground run ­ning,” Chesley said. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloney01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer  NEWS Monday, September 6, 2010 
Robbery 
continued from page 1 
four to five minutes after they were called, another one of the victims said. Several police officers responded, looked for fingerprints and took pictures. He said he found the police to be very helpful after the rob­bery, but would like to see more police presence in his neighborhood. 
“Overall I think they might need maybe one or two more squad cars to patrol the streets where students live,” he said. 
The Office of Student Affairs contacted all three students and offered aid in finding alternative housing options, but they said will continue to live on East Sorin Street. 
The residents have taken new security precautions, however. One of them said they are changing the locks on their doors and adding an extra security code to their security system so the police are called immediately. 
Their possessions have not yet been recovered. South Bend Police took serial num­bers of the electronic devices, one of the students said. If the burglars take the computers to a pawnshop, the serial num­bers will be checked and police will be notified. Two of the students own the home, but homeowner’s insurance only has a $2,000 deductible; he said they would not likely recover all $3,000 worth of stolen items. 
As a result of the incident, one of the victims said he would advise all students who live off campus to take extra security measures, such as keeping doors locked — even while at home — and not walking alone at night. 
“Those are little things that we sometimes ignore but can make a big difference if there are people out there willing to hurt Notre Dame students,” he said. “I would just say don’t take anything for granted. South Bend has a lot to offer but at the same time it’s not the most safe area.” 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 

Government seeks to expand wolf killings 
Associated Press 
BILLINGS, Montana — Government agencies are seeking broad new authority to ramp up killings and removals of gray wolves in the Northern Rockies and Great Lakes, despite two recent court actions that restored the animal’s endangered status in every state except Alaska and Minnesota. 
Various proposals would gas pups in their dens, surgically sterilize adult wolves and allow “conservation” or “research” hunts to drive down the preda­tors’ numbers. 
Once poisoned to near-extermi­nation in the lower 48 states, wolves made a remarkable comeback over the last two decades under protection of the Endangered Species Act. But as packs continue to multiply their taste for livestock and big game herds coveted by hunters has stoked a rising backlash. 
Wildlife officials say that with­out public wolf hunting, they need greater latitude to eliminate problem packs. Montana and Idaho held inaugural hunts last year but an August court ruling scuttled their plans for 2010. 
“As the wolf populations increase, the depredations increase and the number of wolf removals will increase. It’s very logical,” said Mark Collinge, Idaho director for Wildlife Services, the U.S. Department of Agriculture branch that removes problem wolves, typically by shooting them from aircraft. 
“You just have to accept that part of having wolves is having to kill wolves,” he said. 
But wildlife advocates and ani­mal rights groups contend the response to depredating wolves has become too heavy-handed. They say a string of court deci­sions in their favor underscores that the species remains at risk. 
“The draconian lengths they are poised to take really are a throwback, to when the same agency was gassing wolf pups in their dens almost a century ago and setting poisoned baits and trapping them,” said Michael Robinson with the Center for Biological Diversity. 
At least 1,700 wolves now roam Idaho, Montana and Wyoming. There are more than 4,000 in Michigan, Wisconsin and Minnesota. New populations are taking hold in Oregon and Washington, and wolves have been sighted in Colorado, Utah and New England. 
Some of the most remote wilderness habitats are becoming saturated with the animals. As a result, packs are pushing into agricultural and residential areas where domestic animals offer an easy meal. 
One of the more extreme pro­posals — burying wolf pups in their dens and then poisoning them with carbon monoxide gas 
— would be used only infre­quently, in cases where the rest of the pack had been killed for preying on livestock, officials said. 
Buns 
continued from page 1 
offer.” 
Notre Dame has students from all over the country and at Between the Buns they can come and support their local teams from back home, Pestrak said. 
“If you’re from New Jersey you can easily come down and tune in to the Giants game,” he said. “We have a full NFL package, so you’re guaran­teed to see any game you want to at our bar.” 
When March Madness comes, Between the Buns will have every game along the way, Pestrak said. 
Between the Buns is also famous for its build-your-own Bloody Mary bar, which starts at 8 a.m. on home football Saturdays. 
“The bartenders pour the vodka and the customer does the rest,” Pestrak said. “The place is one hundred percent packed when we do this.” 
The ESPN contest has led to a noticeable increase in sales, especially during the first football game this weekend, he said. 
“We’ve gotten a lot of local, and even some national, pub­licity,” Pestrak said. “This past week Between the Buns was featured on WNDU’s morning show and WSBT did an evening news piece on us.” 
According to Pestrak, Between the Buns is also very family friendly. 
“There’s a specialized kids menu,” he said. “We also have a seating section for families that’s separate from the rowdiness of the bar.” 
He said the sports bar is grateful for the community. 
“If you were to look up sports bar in the dictionary, there would most definitely be a picture of Between the Buns,” Pestrak said. 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 
JetBlue attendant resigns 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — A flight attendant who captured America’s attention when he told off a plane full of passen­gers and then slid down an emergency chute resigned from his job last week and wasn’t fired, his lawyer said Sunday. 
Steven Slater left the job at JetBlue Airways Corp. on Wednesday, after he had been suspended following the on-board antics he was charged with committing last month, attorney Daniel J. Horwitz said. JetBlue had said Saturday that Slater was no longer an employee but didn’t give any details, which prompted online speculation he had been fired. 
Horwitz said he and Slater were still working out some details with the Queens-based airline but wouldn’t elabo­rate. 
“He was not fired,” Horwitz said bluntly. 
Slater, 38, worked for JetBlue for about three years, though he has spent nearly 20 years in the airline industry. 
He was working Flight 1052 from Pittsburgh to John F. Kennedy International Airport on Aug. 9 when, he said, an argument took place with a rude passenger. After landing at JFK, he went on the public address system, swore at a passenger who he claimed had treated him rudely, grabbed a beer and exited via an emergency chute, prosecu­tors said. 

Monday, September 6, 2010 The Observer  NEWS page 5 
PAKISTAN 
Death toll rises in Taliban attack 
Associated Press 
QUETTA, Pakistan — The death toll from a Pakistani Taliban suicide attack on a Shiite Muslim procession rose to 65 as critically wounded people died in hos­pitals, while a suspected U.S. missile strike killed seven insurgents in a restive tribal area. 
About 150 people were wounded and some remained in critical condition after the bombing Friday in the south­western city of Quetta, police official Mohammed Sultan said Saturday. 
The attack was the second in a week against Shiites for which the Pakistani Taliban claimed responsibility. A triple suicide bombing Wednesday killed 35 people at a Shiite ceremony in the eastern city of Lahore. 
“Our war is against American and Pakistani security forces, but Shiites are also our target because they, too, are our enemies,” Pakistani Taliban command­er Qari Hussain Mehsud told The Associated Press. 
He said he was proud the 
U.S. had added the Pakistani Taliban to its international terrorism blacklist and threatened attacks in coming days in the U.S. and Europe. 
“We will prove that we have ability to strike right in their countries, ” Mehsud said. 
Shiite leaders blamed the government for failing to protect them and called a general strike in Quetta, where all schools were closed for a day of mourning. Shiites make up an estimat­ed 20 percent of the popula­tion in the mostly Sunni Muslim country, although figures are imprecise and disputed. 
Long-standing sectarian violence in Pakistan, particu­larly against Shiites, has been exacerbated by the rise 
of the Sunni extremist Taliban and al-Qaida move­ments. 
Interior Minister Rehman Malik said the Taliban, al-Qaida and the outlawed Lashkar-e-Jhangvi militant group were working together to destabilize Pakistan. “They are infidels,” he told reporters in Islamabad. 
Meanwhile, two U.S. mis­siles fired from unmanned aircraft hit a house and a vehicle Saturday evening in a village near Miran Shah, the main town in the North Waziristan tribal region, offi­cials said. The attack killed seven militants, four of them foreigners, they added. 
The two intelligence offi­cials spoke on condition of anonymity because they were not authorized to release the information to the media. 
Two airstrikes in the region Friday killed seven people, two believed to be foreign militants, they said. 
Pakistan’s weak civilian government is struggling to deal with massive flooding and the incessant militant violence aimed at overthrow­ing the Western -backed administration. 
White House press secre­tary Robert Gibbs said the timing of the recent attacks 
— during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan and as Pakistan recovers from the flooding — made them “even more reprehensible.” 
The U.N. humanitarian affairs office reported new flooding around the town of Dadu near the Indus River in Sindh province, about 200 miles (330 kilometers) from the Arabian Sea. 
Flood-related health prob­lems continued to increase despite receding waters in many parts of the country. The World Health Organization reported a spike in suspected malaria cases in Sindh and Baluchistan provinces, while diarrhea and acute respira­tory diseases such as pneu­monia continue to plague the disaster zone. More than 4.5 million people have received medical help since the flood­ing began in late July. 
Between 600,000 and 800,000 people have been displaced over the past four days and three towns were under water. About 150,000 people were waiting on a road for assistance, accord­ing to what the U.N. described as rough estimates from staff and local officials in the area. 
At least 3.5 million people in Sindh and 6.5 million nationwide have been dis­placed. “The monsoon sea­son has ended, fresh flooding has not,” U.N. spokesman Maurizio Giuliano said. 
The flooding began with unusually heavy rains in the country’s northern moun­tains and killed more than 1,600 people. Millions have been driven from their homes and the waters are still swamping rich agricul­tural land in the southern provinces of Sindh and Punjab. 

Obama supports research tax credits 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Seeking ways to spur economic growth ahead of the November elec­tions, President Barack Obama will ask Congress to increase and permanently extend research and develop­ment tax credits for business­es, a White House official said Sunday. 
Obama will outline the $100 billion proposal during a speech on the economy Wednesday in Cleveland, the official said. The announce­ment is expected to be the first in a series of new meas­ures Obama will propose this fall as the administration looks to jump-start an econo­my that the president himself has said isn’t growing fast enough. 
In addition to making the research credits permanent, Obama will also ask Congress to extend one of the credit options available to business­es from 14 to 17 percent, according to the official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity because the pro­posal has not been formally announced. 
Obama has proposed mak­ing the research and develop­ment tax credit permanent before, as part of the budget he submitted to Congress ear­lier this year. 
“That’s where U.S. competi­tiveness lies in high-technolo­gy industries,” Laura Tyson, a member of Obama’s Economic Recovery Advisory Board, said Sunday on “Face the Nation” on CBS. 
“I don’t think this is some­thing that has ... as immediate a job impact as, say, move­ment on the current tax cred­its for the unemployed or extending a payroll tax holi­day of some sort. But I think it’s very important in terms of job creation over the longer term,” Tyson said. 
While the idea is popular in Congress, coming up with off­setting tax increases or spend­ing cuts has been a stumbling block. Obama will ask law­makers to close corporate tax breaks for multinational cor­porations and oil and gas companies. 
Congress has previously passed research tax credits on a temporary basis. The credits expired last year and a pro­posal for renewal is pending in the Senate. 
While research credits gen­erally have bipartisan sup­port, Washington’s con ­tentious political atmosphere means the White House isn’t taking anything for granted. Officials have watched other proposals they deem neces­sary to economic growth, including a bill to extend credit and cut taxes for small businesses, languish on Capitol Hill. 
The proposal for research and development tax credits was first reported by The New York Times. 
Amid an uptick in the job­less rate to 9.6 percent, the president promised to announce a series of new measures on the economy. The package could include infrastructure bonds for municipalities and extensions for other tax breaks for busi­nesses and individuals that expired at the end of 2009. 
The administration is also considering extending a law passed in March that exempts companies that hire unem­ployed workers from paying Social Security taxes on those workers through December. Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., has proposed extending the exemption an additional six months. 
Obama is continuing to prod the Senate to pass the small business bill that calls for about $12 billion in tax breaks and a $30 billion fund to help unfreeze lending. Republicans have likened the bill to the unpopular bailout of the financial industry. And the president wants to make per­manent the portion of George 
W. Bush’s tax cuts affecting the middle class. 
The House has already passed many of the provisions, but they have stalled in the Senate because Republicans and Democrats cannot agree on how to pay for them. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
page 6 Monday, September 6, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Dreaming of Dumbledore 
For the first time ever in my life, I am reading the Harry Potter series. As a child, my parents were against the books, so I never had the opportunity to read them. Now that I’m back at school, a good friend has loaned me all seven books, and I am working through them one by one. 
I have seen all of the movies thus far, but I am trying to read the books before the newest movie is released Alicia Smith in November. The movies were fan-A ssociate tastic, and sparked SaintM ary’s my interest to read Editor the novels. 

I must admit that I am enjoying reading the books as well; they are well written and enter­taining. I love living vicariously through Harry, Ron and Hermione. However, while reading the novels, I’ve found that I’ve had the most magical dreams. 
Friday night, I was leisurely flying on a broomstick. I was wearing a dark robe, and I was speeding through the sky, faster and faster. I flew over Hogwarts. I swooped and glided all over campus. 
A few days ago, I dreamt that a drag­on was chasing me. It blew fire at me as I swerved on my broomstick, trying as hard as I could to get away. It was just about to capture me when I woke up. 
On another occasion, I was wearing my invisibility cloak and wandering around Hogwarts. I snuck around for hours, wandering the hallways. 
I typically read the books right before I fall asleep, and almost every night since I began reading the novels, I have had a Harry Potter-esque dream. 
Sometimes the dreams are peaceful. I am studying in the library or mixing a potion. I’ve also dreamt that I was receiving letters from owls and talking to ghosts. 
Other dreams are more like night­mares. One night I was facing Voldemort. Incidentally, I woke up with a splitting headache that morning, which, according to my dream, was from the scar on my forehead. 
In another dream Dementors were chasing me. Their black cloaks swooshed around me. Slowly, they were sucking the life out of me. I woke up with a jolt, panicked by my darkened room. Luckily, I was only dreaming about Dementors, and I didn’t find any in my room. 
The scariest dream I had involved Snape. While watching the movies, I really liked Snape. However, while read­ing the books I have formed a different opinion. In my dream, Snape was trying to kill me. I was flying on my broomstick and Snape was trying to make me fall off. When I managed to stay on, he tried a variety of spells to disable me. He glared at me and continuously spouted out spells, trying to harm me. 
I’ve also dreamt about Quidditch. I’ve had several dreams where I’m chasing the Snitch. In many of them, I success­fully retrieve the Snitch and win the game. 
I look forward to finishing the series, and I can’t wait to see the newest movie. I have really grown to love the Harry Potter series. Even though some of my dreams are scary, I am still excited to see what magical adventure I’ll be on each night as soon as I fall asleep. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@stmarys.edu 
Planters of peace 
“The best time to plant a tree was twenty years ago. The second best time is now.” 
– African Proverb 
Why, in a world in which violence is a part of mod­ern culture and 
Alex Coccia 
in which coun­tries go to war over natural Shard ofG lass 
resources, would one want to be a proponent of peace, a pacifist? The question is the answer. Being a pacifist is like planting a tree. The seed is planted, but the tree does not grow immediately. It takes tens and hundreds of years. Some trees, like the Sequoias, are thousands of years old. Likewise, pacifism guarantees no immediate results. However, violence offers the immediate results of death and chaos. Pacifism is a lengthy process and it begins with each indi­vidual: at home, with how we treat each other, our family members, with how we understand other cultures, religions and belief systems. Peace is a necessity, not a dream. It is a neces­sity in the most urgent sense, for a tree cannot begin to grow until the seed is planted. 
Pacifism is not an assured method of existence; neither is violence. However, one can be sure that the natural state of man is not violence. Paul Rusesabagina describes this as a “sick aberration,” that the natural state of man is not hacking his neigh­bors to pieces but saying “hello” as he walks to his car each morning. The violence that is shown in the media every day is not a true reflection of mankind. The true nature of man is the planter, the one who plants trees 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
— 
for himself, although he will not see the effect of his labor; for his chil­dren, although not even they will nec­essarily see the effect; for generations to come, the Sequoias. 

In an essay by Aldous Huxley enti­tled “Nonviolence and Moral Courage,” he sums up the mission of the pacifist: “Nonviolence does not mean doing nothing. It means making the enormous effort required to over­come evil with good” — planting a tree. “It relies,” he writes, “on moral courage, self–control and the knowl­edge, unswervingly acted upon, that there is in every human being, how­ever brutal, however personally hos­tile, a fund of kindness, a love of jus­tice, a respect for goodness and truth which can be reached by anyone who uses the right means.” History has shown that this is true. Large move­ments and individuals have shown that this is true. Paul Rusesabagina, the same man who saved more than 1,000 Rwandans from the slaughter outside his hotel doors, has a positive view for humanity. He knows the power of nonviolence. He says in his autobiography An Ordinary Man that he firmly believes words were the only thing that saved him, his family and those taking refuge in the hotel 

— 
not guns, not grenades, not hateful words, not harmful actions but per­suasive, clever, forceful and some­times flattering language: a form of nonviolence. 


Many forms of nonviolence — Rusesabagina’s words, the Danish resistance to the Nazis — have occurred during genocides. PBS called genocide “worse than war.” It is necessary to understand the nature of genocide and the nonviolent move­ments that come out of such atroci­ties, because genocide is the nadir of humanity. From an objective view­point, we have seen how horrifying the human race can be, and it is from this view that we can build up. But it should not take a genocide to spark growth in the nonviolent movement. Planting the seeds of the movement at home is the key to peace. Peace grows outward, from person to person, com­munity to community, nation to nation and nations to the world. So for the individual, recognizing violence at home and responding nonviolently for change is the means to an end that is not in sight. “World peace starts right here,” Barbara Choo wrote. “I will not raise my child to kill your child.” 
Joan Baez once said, “Nonviolence offers no guarantees. But the curious thing is that people who do violence don’t receive guarantees either. Statistics show that you have a better chance of coming out alive in a nonvi­olent battle.” Violence will always exist, just as there will always be insects that destroy trees. Pacifists are not naïve idealists as they are often portrayed. Pacifism is realism. It is based upon the understanding that man is naturally averted from evil and violence. It is rooted in the understanding that the world will change, slowly, and perhaps not in our lifetimes. However, it is rooted with the faith and trust that the for every tree to come down, two must be planted. 
Alex Coccia is a freshman. He can be contacted at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Joy is not in things; it is in us.” 
W. Richard Wagner German composer 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Love is not blind — it sees more, not less. But because it sees more, it is willing to see less.” 
Julius Gordon Rabbi 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
Monday, September 6, 2010 page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The party patrol 
In Tuesday’s issue of The Observer there was a Letter to the Editor about a party that was busted Friday night (“Underage drinking worse than armed robber?” Aug. 
31) I was lucky not to be there, but most of the 23 who were arrested are my friends. I think I represent many Notre Dame stu­dents when I express a feeling of disbelief at what is happening off campus. 
Let’s be honest here. What we have on our hands is a party patrol; a brigade whose sole purpose is to cruise around try­ing to find a couple dozen kids to take to jail for the night. What good is the elite Notre Dame diploma going to be in the job hunt when so many have one or more mis­demeanors on their records simply for doing what every other college campus does and gets away with? How is it fair that our athletes are making headlines for doing what most other college athletes do and don’t get arrested for? 
Taking measures to protect us from being taken advantage of by the police does not mean the university must condone under­age drinking. It means they have to care enough about their students not to want the kids, who they all thought were clearly out­standing citizens in the application process, to walk out of here with criminal records. 
I’m not saying that it’s reasonable to let students do whatever they want off campus. I am saying that the majority of college campuses around the country have found ways to control parties without ticketing, much less arresting their students. Colorado State University recently worked with their police forces to implement a pro­gram where CSU students were able to reg­ister their Friday or Saturday night parties at CSU’s Off-Campus Student Services. Should a noise complaint be received by Police Services, the registered party host is contacted by phone and is given a verbal warning to breakup their party in a 20­minute time frame. This may not be the answer for Notre Dame, but it is signifi­cantly better than the insanity that’s going on here. 
Colleen Reidy 
sophomore McGlinn Hall Sep. 2 
Kirk’s firing 
Lou Holtz once said, “You don’t go to Notre Dame to learn how to do something, you go to learn how to be someone.” Over my three years at Notre Dame this sentiment has proved true. For the first 18 years of my life my parents served as the most prominent influence, but as I embarked on my journey to college, I left my parents convinced that at Our Lady’s University I would be in good hands. I was right. Here, I have had the pleasure of not only learning from the most brilliant minds in America, but also getting to know these men and women on a more personal level. My involvement in ND Response and Right to Life has given me the oppor­tunity to meet and become friends with the Kirk family. 
Mr. and Mrs. Kirk are people I came to Notre Dame to learn to be like. The courage they displayed in standing up for what was right, no matter the consequences, is something I aspire to have. With the only details of the events surrounding Mr. Kirk’s firing being, it was part (or perhaps the only part) of Fr. Doyle’s new restructuring of the Residence Life Office, I can’t help but think it was Mr. Kirk’s courage that caused his firing. Thomas More was once in a similar position. When asked if he would dis­obey his conscience he replied, “When we die, and you are sent to heaven for doing your conscience, and I am sent to hell for not doing mine, will you come with me, for fellowship?” Mr. Kirk, I can’t help but think you are in good company, and the students of Notre Dame whose lives you have changed through your example will miss you. 
Mary Forr 
senior 
Pasquerilla West Hall 
Sep. 3 
UWIRE 
Planned ‘Quran Burning Day’ incites hatred 
By now, I’m sure almost everyone knows about the controversy sur­rounding the construction of a mosque near Ground Zero, but how many peo­ple know about the “International 
Burn a Koran 
Mariah 
Day” that will Najmuddin take place Sept. 11? It is within 
The O klahom a 
our first 
D aily 
amendment 
rights to express when, how and what we believe. However, it’s mind boggling to see that the bigotry of yesteryear still plagues our society and our views. 
From Japanese prison camps during the 40s to Jim Crow laws of the 60s to the Quran burning that will take place in just a few days — we can see that America is still as narrow minded as it was when our grandparents were children. 
If a group of Muslims were to pub­licly plan to burn Bibles, it would be blasphemy and surely a sign of under­ground terrorism. The media would be spending hours covering the story. But this little church in Gainesville, Fla., is getting nothing short of a pat on the back and open support. They haven’t received any angry media cov­erage in defense of Islamic communi­ties, nor have they received any back­lash from other Christian organiza­tions. Instead, they have received more than 7,000 fans on Facebook and a book preaching the evils of Islam. 
Let me remind you, freedom of and from religion are also provided in our First Amendment. 
It’s ridiculous that we have heard next to nothing about this Quran burn­ing. Just last year, the nation was in an uproar over the University of Texas in San Antonio’s campaign, “Smut for Smut,” a program where one could exchange religious texts for porn. 
The media won’t eat up Quran burn­ing because bashing Islam has become socially acceptable. According to an August 10 CBS poll, 45 percent of Americans said they have an “unfa­vorable” view toward Muslims. And according to an Aug. 19 TIME poll, 62% of Americans said they don’t per­sonally know someone who is Muslim. 
It’s easy to target someone and something we don’t know a thing about. In fact, Muslims make up less than 2 percent of our population. We are afraid of something we are com­pletely oblivious to. 
But this goes beyond religion no matter what faith you belong to. Not only has anti-Islamic sentiment spread since 2001, but also stereotyping has become a commonality among all faiths. More and more Christians are viewed as intolerant and unloving, Muslims as radical and violent and Mormons as cultic and creepy. 
Yes, it was Islamic extremists that attacked the U.S. on Sept. 11, but let us not forget the Mormon compound in Texas that held 400 children prison­er or the more than 200 abortion clin­ics that have been bombed by different Protestant organizations. 
I’m not trying to undermine the sig­nificance of Islamic extremism, and I’m not saying we should ridicule Quran burners, but before we strike the match, we should be a little more open-minded to the people we’re affecting, not just the people who have affected us. 
There is ignorance among us all, some more than others, but we shouldn’t let the foolish acts of few define the character of many. 
This column first appeared in the Sept. 3 edition of The Oklahoma Daily, the daily publication serving the University of Oklahoma. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Beck preaches the wrong sermon 
Last month, I did something that, according to Nielsen ratings, about 2.3 million people do every weekday. I watched “Glenn Beck,” an early evening show on the Fox News Channel — mostly to see with my own eyes the man who was now, according to The New York Times, “one of the most powerful media voices for the nation’s conservative populist anger.” 
I can’t remember exactly what Glenn Beck was harping on the day I tuned in. I remember, 
instead, what he did. He paced the stage uneasily. He pounded at a 
Peter Fulham blackboard. He crept toward the camera, imploring his audience with 
a weepy eagerness to take his polemics at face value. The new leader 
The H oya 
of the nation’s conservative populist movement reminded me, mostly, of my high school math teacher. Beck’s on-air disposition — a high wire act between near-sanity and full-fledged fanaticism 
— is enough to turn off any average viewer. But his actual positions are even more unsettling. Beck argued earlier this year, for instance, that President Obama “has exposed himself, I think, as a guy, over and over and over again, who has a deep-seated hatred for white peo­ple.” On the 9/11 victims’ families, he said without hesitation: “When I see a 9/11 victim fami­ly on television, or whatever, I’m just like, ‘Oh, shut up.’ I’m so sick of them because they’re always complaining.” 
Beck’s politics represent a kind of warped libertarianism, which views all government intervention — from regulating freewheeling investment banks to providing poor Americans with affordable health care — as a threat to the nation’s survival. The president, according to Mr. Beck, is leading the country down a path to “socialism” and “dictatorship.” Beck has little interest in facts. He is concerned, instead, with incendiary rhetoric and apocalyptic fear-mon­gering. 
So the news last weekend that Beck was hosting a rally on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial — on the 47-year anniversary of Martin Luther King’s speech on those same steps, no less — was disconcerting. Although Beck assured everyone that his choice of date was merely a scheduling coincidence — and that he would be speaking a full two steps down from where King gave his famous address — the event could not shake the air of presump­tion. 
It was impossible, in the aftermath of this event, to miss the irony of a mostly white, mid­dle-aged crowd aspiring to take up the mantle of the civil rights movement. The Tea Party, of which Beck has long been the de facto leader, has also been marred by a laundry list of racially tinged incidents — starting in 2009 with the homemade sign of Dale Robertson, the founder of TeaParty.org, comparing Congress to a “slave owner” and taxpayers to the N word. Incidents like this one — including the alleged racial and homophobic slurs that were hurled by Tea Party protesters at members of Congress during the vote on the health care bill this year — raise more than a few questions. 
Glenn Beck is not a legitimate leader of a movement. He is a self-acknowledged business­man with a TV show. “I could give a flying crap about the political process,” Beck told Forbes this year. Mercury Radio Arts, his production company, he explained, is “an entertainment company.” During his time away from preaching his far-out views on his Fox News show and radio program, Beck serves as a pitchman for Goldline International, hawking risky invest­ment advice to daytime television audiences. 
Beck’s meteoric rise has generated unease among Democrats who see his new popularity as a threat to their chances of survival in the midterm elections this year. But Beck’s newly anointed position as the head of disaffected American conservatives belies a deficit of true Republican leadership. That Beck has enjoyed so much influence in a midterm election year is a testament only to the failure of conservatives to find a leader who can articulate their dis­sent without the hysterical pontification that Beck has made his trademark. 
This column first appeared in the Sept. 3 edition of The Hoya, the daily publication serv­ing Georgetown University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 
Scene
page 8 Monday, September 6, 2010 

By COURTNEY COX 
Scene Writer 
With the fall career fair coming up Wednesday, students are so busy worrying about their résumés and inter­viewing skills that they barely have time to think about what to wear. It may even seem frivolous to spend time thinking about clothing when there is so little time as it is. Are clothes really that important for a career fair? 
A good first impression is essential to future employers and should not be taken lightly. Kim Weisenberger from the Notre Dame Career Center said first impres­sions are important. 
“It’s often the only face to face time you have with a recruiter, unless they ask you back for an interview, so you want to convey a positive image 
the first time you  meet  
them,” she said.  
C l o t h i n g  c h o i c e  h a p  - 

pens to be a large part of that first impression. Students should allow clothing to be a part of 

that positive first impression. 
Appropriate attire for the career fair, accord­ing to Weisenberger, is to dress as if you are going to an inter­view. For men this means wearing a suit and tie. For women this means a skirt and blouse combination, a pantsuit, a skirt suit or possibly even a dress. It’s also encouraged that women wear high-heeled shoes, or some other form 
of 
nice dress 

shoes. The numerous 

options 
available for women make deciding on an out­fit that much more difficult. When try­ing to find an outfit to wear to the career fair it is best to edit as much as possible. The less busy an outfit is, the 


easier it is for a recruiter to focus on a student’s abilities and 
p  e  r  s  o n  a  l  i  t  y  .  
Weisenberger  
s a i d  i t  i s  
okay for  stu- 
d e n t s  t o  
s h o w c a s e  a  
little creativi­ 
t y  i n  t h e i r  
outfits, but it  
i s  i m p o r t a n t  
n o t  t o  g o  
crazy.  
We a r  a  
m o r e  u ni q u e  
shirt under  a  
c l a s s i c  s u i t  
f o r  a  l o o k  
t h a t  s t a n d s  
out in  a  good  
w a y.  I t  i s  
i m p o r t a n t ,  
h o w e v e r,  t o  
m a k e  s u r e  
that the  out- 
fit still looks  
s l e e k ,  p o l - 
i s h e d  a n d  
professional.  
A n o t h e r  
g o o d  w a y  t o  
m a k e  a  s u i t  
less boring is  to  add  a  
few well-chosen  acces - 

sories. A necklace or a watch can add interest to an all black suit with­out making the wearer appear over­dressed or, worse, unprofession­al. It is im por tant, 
once again, to take time to edit the outfit that is going to be seen by countless employers . Don’t simply throw on a piece of jew­elry because a suit seems boring. Think about the options avail­able and pick somethi ng that is classic and modern 
without being stuffy and boring. 

Draw inspiration from movies and TV, but do it with caution. Elle Woods may be your style icon, but Weisenberger warns, “a pink suit isn’t a great idea. ” Look instead to people who have por ­

trayed upper level pro­fessionals in movies and 
on 
TV. Rashida Jones ’ character on “The Office,” Karen Filippelli, is a good example of a stylish yet professional woman. John Krasinski’s portrayal of Jim Halpert is a good example of how to dress for men. 

Inspiration can also be drawn from the way suits are styled in retail catalogues. J. Crew has 

one 
of the best selec ­tions of women’s suits and they are often styled in an effortless manner that doesn ’t distract from the person wearing the suit. 


Makeup and hair can often be just as impor­tant as the outfit itself towards creating a posi­tive first impression. Make sure to style hair in a manner that isn ’t distracting or crazy. A sleek ponytail can often be the best option when trying to appear profes­sional and ready to 
work. Makeup should always be kept sim ­ple, it is important that the recruiters are able to see who they are talking to instead of trying to look past layers of 
overdone makeup. A light blush and mas ­cara always serve as a good way to appear enthusias ­tic and awake without 
being too dramatic. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 
The Observer 
Scene
Monday, September 6, 2010 page 9 



By MARISSA FROBES 
Scene Writer 
“Tonight is going down in rap history,” Eminem declared Thursday at Comerica Park in Detroit. He was not exaggerating. 
Eminem paired up with rap mogul Jay-Z for a “Home And Home” tour that is comprised of two shows in Eminem’s abode, Detroit, which took place Thursday and 
Friday night, and two Yankee Stadium in New York City, Jay-Z’s home, 13 and 14. 
The two rap legends announced their tour appropriately at Detroit Tigers vs. New York Yankees game in May and there was an incredible response from fans, causing the duo to increase the number of shows from two to four. 
It was a smart move on their part — over 42,000 fans filled up Comerica Park Thursday to see what the two had planned. Rumors had been stirring in Detroit about who would show up in addi­tion to Eminem and Jay-Z — many of which turned out to be true. 
Most people were still shuf­fling in as opener B.o.B. per­formed, but the stadium was full by the time Jay-Z took the floor. The crowd was roaring as he rose up from beneath the stage with his “Dynasty” intro. Madness ensued when he continued with “Run This Town.” 
As the opener for Eminem, a role that will be reversed when the pair head to New York, Jay-Z performed for well over an hour. He played everything the crowd wanted to hear: “99 Problems,” “Big Pimpin’” and even “Empire State of Mind.” Detroit wel­comed the homage to New York as Jay-Z assured the crowd “he knew where he was.” 
A few of the cameos began during his set. Young Jeezy and Memphis Bleek joined Jay-Z, but the real surprises came during Eminem’s part of the show. 
After a 30-minute intermis­sion, a video chronicling Eminem’s journey towards “Recovery” started to roll. The Detroit native came onstage to thunderous applause, sport­ing a plain T-shirt and a hood­ed Detroit sweatshirt. 
Eminem began with, “Won’t Back Down,” from his latest album, “Recovery.” That got him riled up for his 100­
minute set. He pro-
A.M.,” a lesser-known single from “Relapse,” a shock to the audience because he is bla­tantly critical of his last album. 
B.o.B. returned to sing “Airplanes Pt. II” with Eminem, and Trick Trick came on stage to help Eminem rap “Welcome 2 Detroit.” Jay-Z came back out to perform “Renegade” with Eminem. 
But there were also some newcomers. Drake made an appearance to help Eminem with “Forever,” and 50 Cent came out with Lloyd Banks for his own mini concert. Eminem even left the stage as he rapped hits “In Da Club” and “Patiently Waiting.” 
All of D12 showed up to play “Purple Pills” and “My Band,” during which Eminem had the crowd rap the verse that originally belonged to his best friend, Proof, who was killed in Detroit in 2006. 
One of the most exciting cameos occurred as Eminem rapped, “Dr. Dre said…” and the man himself walked out. The concert was too good to be true. Detroit received per­formances by about eight huge stars, when they would have been overjoyed seeing only the two they paid for. 
That’s not to say Eminem 
didn’t hold his own when he performed alone. Every audi­ence member screamed along to cult hits like “Cleanin’ Out My Closet” and “The Way I Am.” And Eminem “took it back” to rap “My Name Is,” with the legendary music video playing on the screens in the back­ground. 
He wrapped up the show with an emotional “Not Afraid,” but appeased the audience and came out for an encore of “Lose Yourself” as they chanted for more. 
As everyone who took part in the show came back on stage to say farewell to the first crowd in Detroit, all acknowledged that it was an epic evening for hip-hop. The two artists head to New York next week— it’s safe to say they have a lot in store for the Big Apple. 

MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 
page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Monday, September 6, 2010 
MLB 
Twins survive Rangers after controversial call 
Hernandez strikes out nine as Mariners blank Indians; Tejada hits first major league homer as Mets destroy Cubs 
difficult stretch for them. Over Texas tied it in the second 
Associated Press 
the past five weeks, Minnesota with a two-run single. 
MINNEAPOLIS — In a played 17 games against con-bizarre ending, Texas third tenders Tampa Bay, Texas and Mariners 3, Indians 0 base coach Dave Anderson the White Sox. was called for interfering with Beginning with Monday’s Felix Hernandez scattered runner Michael Young for the game against Kansas City, the four hits over eight innings final out Sunday, giving the Twins play 18 of their final 25 and the Seattle Mariners Minnesota Twins a 6-5 win games against teams that are scored just enough runs for over the Rangers. currently under .500. him in a victory over the 
Down 6-2 in a matchup for Nick Blackburn (9-9) went Cleveland Indians on Sunday. AL division leaders, the seven innings in his third con-Hernandez (11-10) gave up Rangers scored twice in the secutive quality start since four singles in his 111-pitch ninth inning and had the bases being recalled from the effort. He walked one and loaded with two outs. minors. C.J. Wilson (14 -6) struck out nine. David 
Vladimir Guerrero grounded struggled for 5 1-3 innings and Aardsma worked the ninth to an RBI single up the middle has his seven-game winning pick up his 28th save in 33 that Twins second baseman streak come to an end. opportunities. Orlando Hudson fielded Denard Span and Michael Russell Branyan drove in a behind the bag. Young, who Cuddyer each drove in two pair of runs with a solo home had been on second, came runs and J.J. Hardy scored run in the sixth, his 23rd, and running around third and twice for the Twins. a RBI double in the eighth. appeared to tap hands with Leading 3-2, Minnesota Jeanmar Gomez (3-3) took Anderson before stopping and scored three times in the sixth. the loss for the Indians, allow-scrambling back to the bag. After Jason Kubel and Delmon ing seven hits and two runs in In the seventh, Hernandez went six-plus innings, giving 
Young made a dive back into Young opened the inning with six innings. He struck out hit Jayson Nix to start the up five runs after allowing a third and appeared to beat singles, Hardy hit an RBI sin-three and didn’t walk anyone. inning. Jordan Brown then combined 15 in his previous Hudson’s throw to third base-gle. Walks to Jason Repko and Runs have been a problem singled. Matt LaPorta lined out two starts, but helped himself man Matt Tolbert. But third Span forced home a run and for the Mariners lately. They to second. Valbuena flied out with a big day at the plate. base umpire Alfonso Marquez Hudson added a sacrifice fly. have scored three runs or to left and Gimenez struck out. A .133 hitter entering the pointed and made the interfer-Wilson, who entered the fewer over the past 10 games Hafner hit into a line-out game, he chased Ryan ence call for the third out. game with a 1.99 ERA since for the second longest such double play to ease Hernandez Dempster (12-10) with an RBI 
Rangers manager Ron the All -Star break, didn’t streak in club history. They out of a two-on, one-out jam in single that capped a five-run Washington argued the call, make it out of the inning. The went 12 games from June 10-the eighth. fifth and turned a 4-2 deficit but the game was ruled over. six runs were the most 22, 1988. Indians manager Manny into a 7-4 lead. 
Texas’ comeback in the allowed by Wilson since May For Hernandez, his 3.32 run Acta was ejected in the fifth Aramis Ramirez hit a two-ninth against Jon Rauch and 18 and his 5 1-3 innings support average is second low-inning by second base umpire run homer for Chicago and Matt Capps fell short. The equaled his shortest outing est in the league behind Hunter Wendelstedt. He was drove in three runs. Geovany interference call was the only since July 11. Baltimore’s Kevin Millwood at arguing a close play at second. Soto homered, but the Cubs out Capps got while posting After giving up a pair of runs 3.26. When Wendelstedt finally lost for the fourth time in 12 his ninth save in 11 tries with in the second, Blackburn did-In his 10 losses, the warned him to return to the games under interim manager Minnesota. Capps has 35 saves n’t allow another run. Mariners have scored a com-dugout but Acta persisted, he Mike Quade. overall with Washington and Minnesota took a 2-0 lead in bined 10 runs for Hernandez was sent off. Touched for seven runs in a the Twins. the first when Hudson singled, while he was on the mound. season-low three innings 
The Twins remained 3½ Joe Mauer was hit by a pitch That’s one reason why he’s on Mets 18, Cubs 5 against Pittsburgh last week, games ahead of Chicago in the and Michael Cuddyer doubled the fringe of the Cy Young Dempster was no better this AL Central and completed a them home. Award discussion despite Ruben Tejada hit his first time. He lasted just 4 2-3 
impressive numbers. major league homer and drove innings and allowed nine hits 
Hernandez is first in the in five runs, Ike Davis also and seven runs, three of them majors in strikeouts (209), connected and the New York earned. first in league in innings (219), Mets erupted for 21 hits and He couldn’t protect a 4-2 second in the league in ERA pounded the Chicago Cubs lead. (2.30), but tied for 41st in Sunday to avoid a weekend Angel Pagan led off the Mets wins. sweep. fifth by reaching on a two-
Hernandez also has pitched The Mets’ bats perked up for base error, when Tyler Colvin into the seventh inning for 21 season highs in runs and hits dropped his liner to deep right straight starts. That matches even though David Wright got after a long run, and the Mets Randy Johnson’s club record. a day off and Jose Reyes was wound up sending up 10 bat-Johnson did his over two sea-still nursing a strained right ters. sons, his final 11 starts in oblique. They scored five runs Carlos Beltran and Davis fol­1992 and first 10 in 1993. in the fifth, eighth and ninth lowed with RBI singles that 
During that stretch, innings while winning for just tied it at 4. After Mike Hernandez is 9-7 with a 1.72 the second time in seven Hessman walked to load the earned run average. games. bases, Dempster struck out 
The Mariners scored their Tejada, who had never Lucas Duda and Josh Thole, first run in the second inning. knocked in more than a run, but the Mets weren’t finished. Casey Kotchman singled then had a two-run single in the Tejada hit a two-run single went to second on Ryan fifth and homered leading off and Niese, who had singled in Langerhans’ right -side the seventh. a run in the second, chased groundout. Kotchman moved Davis had four hits and Dempster with another one. to third on Adam Moore’s sin-drove in three runs while scor-While Dempster struggled, it gle to right. ing three. He drove a two-run was also a rough afternoon for 
Michael Saunders then hit a shot in the eighth for his 17th Starlin Castro. potential double play grounder homer and second in as many He went 0 for 4 after becom­to second baseman Luis games. ing the first Cubs rookie in 66 Valbuena. He threw to second Jonathon Niese (9-7) deliv-years with six straight multihit for the force but Saunders ered a pair of RBI singles and games with two double plays beat the relay, allowed more than made up for his and what amounted to a third Kotchman to score. struggles on the mound. He in the eighth. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
with delightful children (reading If you or someone you care about My friend asked me if I wanted a stories, playing games, building has been sexually assaulted, we frozen banana, I said "No, but I
WANTED with blocks) and is an excellent FOR RENT PERSONAL can help. For more information, visit want a regular banana later, so ... addition to your resume. Volunteers Notre Dame’s website: yeah". are needed during any of the follow-http://csap.nd.edu 
The Early Childhood Development ing hours: 8:00 am - 1:30 pm & Clean 3-4 BR home for rent within Chess Lessons: USCF and FIDE ——————————————— I'm against picketing, but I don't Center at Notre Dame (ECDC-ND) amp; 2:30 - 5:30 pm. A minimum of walking distance of UP Mall and (International Chess Federation) UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t know how to show it. is seeking college students to vol-2 hours per week, on the same day ND. Cape Cod 2 BR on the 1st floor Master, 2010 Indiana State Chess got it alone. Notre Dame has many unteer in the preschool and kinder-each week, is required. A brief ori-and 1-2 BR on 2nd. Major appli-Champion and coach of the 1997/8 resources in place to assist you. If I was walking down the street with garten classrooms. ECDC-ND is entation is provided. ances included. Freshly painted K-8 National Championship team you or someone you love needs my friend and he said, "I hear located on the ND campus on Bulla If you are interested in volunteering and very clean inside and out. Full Dennis Monokroussos is offering confidential support or assistance, music", as if there is any other way Road, across from O’Hara Grace at ECDC-ND, call 631-3344 or basement, 2 car garage and plenty lessons to players of all ages and please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-2685. you can take it in. You're not spe-Residences at the corner of Leahy email Nikki at of storage. Large fenced in back-levels (local &amp; online). Please For more information, visit ND’s cial, that's how I receive it too. I and Bulla. Volunteering at ECDC is nzavadaec@yahoo.com to sched-yard. Small pets with pet deposit. contact historicchess@comcast.net website at: http://pregnancysup-tried to taste it but it did not work. a wonderful opportunity to interact ule your volunteer time. Call 574-993-6637 for rates and information. port@nd.edu. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Monday, September 6, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
ECU ‘Hail Mary’ beats Tulsa 
Associated Press 
GREENVILLE, N.C. — Dominique Davis heaved a 33­yard touchdown pass to a leap­ing Justin Jones as time expired to give East Carolina a wild 51-49 win against Tulsa on Sunday in coach Ruffin McNeill’s debut with the Pirates. 
Davis was 27 of 46 for 383 yards with five touchdown passes — two to Lance Lewis, two to Dwayne Harris — and one rushing TD in his first start for East Carolina (1-0, 1-0 Conference USA). 
G.J. Kinne finished 28 of 43 for 399 yards for Tulsa (0-1, 0­1). His fifth touchdown pass — a 3-yard toss to Charles Clay with 1:22 left — appeared to Pirates downfield in nine plays. On the final snap, he launched the ball high toward a handful of players in the end zone. Jones outjumped everyone for it, setting off a massive cele­bration. 
have  been  enough  for  the  
Golden Hurricane.  
But  Davis  whisked  the  


A brief review upheld the call and the Pirates, who were flagged for an excessive cele­bration, skipped the extra point and instead took a knee. 
The teams combined for 1,117 total yards and the lead changed hands 12 times during a wacky, back-and-forth C-USA shootout in which defense seemed optional. Harris caught seven passes for 121 yards while Lewis finished with six grabs for 105 yards. 
Those two were the biggest beneficiaries of Davis’ big day. The Boston College transfer led the Eagles to the 2008 Atlantic Coast Conference champi­onship game, but left the pro­gram and transferred to a jun­ior college. He signed with East Carolina to play for Skip Holtz, but he faced an uncertain future when Holtz left for South Florida in January and McNeill replaced him. 
Nobody knew who East Carolina would start at quar­terback until Davis trotted off the sideline for the first play from scrimmage. McNeill maintained all week that he was waffling between Davis and sophomore walk-on Brad Wornick. 
WNBA 
Seattle Storm advance to fnals on Bird shot 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX— Sue Bird made a tiebreaking 3-pointer with 
2.8 seconds left Sunday and the Seattle Storm advanced to the WNBA finals with a 91 -88 victory over the defending champion Phoenix Mercury, closing the game with a 15-0 run. 
Diana Taurasi, who fin­ished with 28 points, missed a contested 3-pointer at the buzzer for Phoenix. 
Swin Cash had 23 points and eight rebounds, helping Seattle erase an 88 -76 deficit in the second game of the best-of-three conference finals. League MVP Lauren Jackson added 20 points and eight boards. 
Phoenix missed shots on three consecutive posses­sions in the final 1:35, the last being Tameka Johnson’s short layup against Bird. Bird grabbed the rebound and called timeout. 
Johnson had 15 points and 12 assists for Phoenix, which had won two of the last three WNBA titles. 
The Storm earned their seventh consecutive win and advanced to the finals for the first time since 2004. They will meet the winner of the Eastern Conference finals between Atlanta and New York, which was sched­uled to start Sunday night. 
Cash sparked Seattle’s big rally with a three-point play with 3 minutes left and Jackson, who had been held relatively quiet, had five points in the final 2:33. Cash converted a tying layup with 36 seconds left after a Jackson offensive rebound. 
Phoenix out together a 20­1 run in the second quarter, holding Seattle without a field goal for more than seven minutes. But the Storm scored the last seven points of the half to cut the lead to 48-40 at the break. 
Taurasi, the league’s lead­ing scorer during the regu­lar season, scored 10 points in an impressive stretch during the run after being held to nine points total in the first game of the series. 
Jackson had 10 points and six rebounds in the first half, but also picked up her third foul with 2:09 left in the second quarter. 
Phoenix increased its lead to 67-48 lead with 5:24 left in the third and Seattle responded again, finishing period with a 13-4 surge to trim the deficit to 71 -61 entering the fourth. 
SOCCER 
Despite rumors, Rooney to stay with English national team 
Associated Press  in 2008, have cultivated their fa me t o b e co me one of  since the South A f rica let-down, with Rooney booed at  
WAT FORD ,  Engl an d  — Britain’s leading celebrity cou­ times during Friday’s match.  
England striker Wayne Rooney  ples. Coleen has her  own  TV  “It’s important  we  go  out  
will travel to Switzerland  as  series and magazine column  and win football matches and  
pl ann ed  for  the  team ’s  and is considered  a  fashion  control ourselves  on the field  
European Championship qual­ icon.  and off the field  as  best  we  
ifier, despite allegations of  a  There  was  no  comment  on  can,” Milner said. “Things are  
sex  scandal splashed  across  the latest allegations from the  always said in the paper, good  
Sunday’s British tabloids.  F o o t ba ll  Ass o c ia tion  or  things, bad things about the  
Rooney trained  as  normal  Manchester United, but the  England team when results  
with his England teammates  Premier League club is willing  a re  g o in g  we ll  an d  when  
on  Sunday morning  — hours  to provide support to Rooney.  they’re not going well.”  
after the News of the World  The FA insisted that it is  However, Milner fears pro- 
and Sunday Mirror alleged  “business  as  usual” and that  longed  n ega t iv e  c o ve r age  
that the Manchester United  Rooney would remain at the  could prompt some players to  
player cheated repeatedly  on  team hotel, before flying with  quit the international scene.  
his then-pregnant wife last  t he  re s t  of  th e  s q uad  to  “S om e people might  turn  
year with a prostitute.  Switzerland  on  Monday for  round and say, ‘I have had  
Accordi ng  t o  t h e  S unda y  Tuesday night’s qualifier.  enough, I don’t need that,’” AP  
Mirror, the affair with 21- “He did the full session (on  the Manchester City player England striker Wayne Rooney fres a shot at the Bulgarian goal dur­ 
y ea r-old  Jenny  T hom ps o n  Su n d ay m o r ni n g),” w in g er  said. “Obviously thousands of ing a 2012 Euro Cup qualifying match Friday.  
began last June and their last  James Milner told reporters at  people  come  every week and  
meeting in Manchester was in  the team hotel  near  London.  there are kids with your name  want if you want to stay with  used to go out to nightclubs  
O ctobe r,  a  m onth  be fore  “We had our full training ses­ on the back of their shirt.  me.”  but it is very rare that I would  
Roon ey ’s wife C ol ee n ga ve  sion and back to football is  “They obviously look up to  The 24-year-old Rooney has  go out to  a  nightclub now,”  
birth to their first son Kai.  what we’re here to do.”  you so you try to set standards  re gul arly  f e at ure d  in  t he  Ro o n e y  s ai d  in  Ma r c h .  “ I t  
This is the second time this  Rooney played  a  part in all  on  and off the field. We  are  papers for the wrong reasons.  changes with age, of course,  
year that England coach Fabio  four goals  on  Friday night  as  very privileged to be repre- In 2004, he admitted to pay- b u t  I  ma d e  t h at  de c ision  
Capello has had to deal with  England began its Euro 2012  senting this country and what­ ing for  sex  following  a previ­ myself. I got into a few things  
the fallout of lurid allegations  qualification campaign with  a  ever  job you do there will be  ous tabloid expose into his vis- that I shouldn’t have and I  
against one of his players.  4-0 victory  over  Bulgaria at  things you like and things you  its to massage parlors in his  tried to change that. I am set- 
Capello stripped John Terry  Wembley.  don’t.”  na t ive  L iv er poo l.  A nd  la s t  tled at home now.”  
of the captaincy in February  “He’s  a  top, top player and  Af ter  t h e  Te r ry  sc anda l,  mo n t h ,  Ca p ell o  wa rne d  Rooney accepted his respon­ 
after newspaper allegations  we  wa n t  to  p u t  out  t h e  Capello warned the players  Rooney about his off-field con­ s ibi lit ies  a s  t h e  E ngl and  
tha t  the  d ef en der  ha d  a n  st r ongest  t ea m  poss ibl e,”  tha t th eir E n g land fu tu r es  duct after he was pictured uri­ team’s biggest current star.  
affair with England teammate  Milner said.  would be in jeopardy if their  na t ing an d sm o ki ng in t he  “It is difficult as a footballer  
Wayne Bridge’s former part- Roone y hasn’t score d f o r  conduct off the pitch landed  street at the end of  a  night  because you know people look  
ner.  England since last September  them in the media spotlight.  out.  up to you  — you are role mod- 
C ap e ll o  com p la in ed  th at  and  endured  a  lack lu s ter  Ask e d  at  th e  t im e  wh at  J u st  a ft er  t ha t  wa r ni n g,  els whether you like it or not,”  
Te rry  wa s  n o t  se t ting  “a n  World Cup  as  England  was  would happen to players who  Rooney insisted that he had  Rooney said. “You need to try  
example for the young people  eli mi n ate d  i n  the  s econd  stepped out of line after he  curbed his previous  excesses  and be aware of that, try and  
— for the children and the  round.  drew up  a  new  code of  con- since becoming a father.  do your best on the pitch, and  
fans.”  England fans have turned on  duct, Capello said: “The play­ “When  I  fi r st  joi ne d  try to do things well for kids to  
The Rooneys, who married  the underperforming players  ers have to understand what I  Manchester United (in 2004) I  see.”  

page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, September 6, 2010 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Texas Tech tops SMU 35-27 
Associated Press 
LUBBOCK, Texas — Tommy Tuberville made good on his promise to keep Texas Tech's passing offense in tact. 
But he saw difficulties even though Taylor Potts threw for 359 yards and four touchdowns to lead the Red Raiders over SMU and give Tuberville a victo­ry Sunday in his first game as coach. 
"We showed it's going to be some ups and downs this year," Tuberville said. "We're going to have a lot of growing pains. But when you win with growing pains, that means you're doing something right." 
Tuberville took over after the popular and successful Mike Leach was fired in December amid allegations he mistreated an injured player. 
Potts was 34 for 53 with no interceptions and connected with Lyle Leong for three scores and Detron Lewis for the other. 
The pace of the offense is much quicker — lots of no-hud­dles — this season, and Potts likes it. 
"There's no lollygagging around and playing backyard football out there," he said. "Everything's got a purpose, everything's detailed." 
Texas Tech ran its winning streak against SMU to 14 games, dating to 1989. 
Eric Stephens rushed for a 3­yard TD to put Texas Tech up 35-14 midway through the third quarter. 
The Mustangs had a chance late and were driving when they failed to convert a fourth-and-21 from the 50 on their final drive. 
Texas Tech intercepted SMU quarterback Kyle Padron three times. He threw for 218 yards. 
SMU coach June Jones said he was "a little disappointed" in Padron, who he said got rattled. 
"You can't turn the ball over," Jones said. "He's got to play through those things." 
The Mustangs rallied behind their special teams. Darryl Fields returned a kickoff 92 yards to set up a 24-yard field to pull SMU to 35-17. Early in the fourth, Matt Szymanski booted a 61-yard field goal, his longest ever. 
The Mustangs also blocked two field goals. 
SMU pulled to 35-27 midway through the fourth quarter after taking over on downs on the Tech 32. 
On fourth-and-six from the 13, Padron threw into the end zone and it looked like safety Cody Davis had broken it up. But the ball stayed up in the air and Cole Beasley caught it for a score. 
Texas Tech's defense had the task of trying to stop Padron, who threw for a school-record 460 yards and two touchdowns running coach June Jones' run­n-shoot in a 45-10 win over Nevada in the Hawaii Bowl. 
"The biggest question we had is our youth in the secondary, but I think they came out and responded," defensive coordina­tor James Willis said. "They did-n't take this team lightly." 
For Leong it was a career day in receptions and yardage, grab­bing 11 passes for 142 yards. 
"He's a great receiver," said Potts, who played with Leong since the two were in grade school. "He's great with his hands. He doesn't drop many." 
Stephens' touchdown came late in the third quarter when he juked back and forth in the backfield before getting around defenders on the right side and skipping untouched into the end zone. 
Tech's special teams and defense set up the first two Red Raiders scores. Cornelius Douglas forced a fumble as Kenneth Acker fielded a punt deep in SMU's own territory late in the first quarter and Franklin Mitchell recovered it at the 18. 
Tech ran the ball four consec­utive times — something Leach rarely did — before Potts found Leong in the corner of the end zone for a 2-yard touchdown to give Tech a 7-0 lead. 
On the second play of SMU's next possession, redshirt fresh­man Jarvis Phillips stepped in front of a pass from Padron to set up Potts's second TD pass. The 6-yard score went over the middle to Leong, who was wide open near the back of the end zone. 
PGA 
Day leads going into fnal round in Boston 
Associated Press 
NORTON, Mass. — The final hole gave Jason Day a one-shot lead in the Deutsche Bank Championship. The final hour gave him a good idea of what he might expect for the Labor Day finish. 
Day walked off the 15th green with a three-shot lead Sunday, feeling good about separating himself from the field. 
It was gone in two holes. 
Then came the par-5 18th, where Day stood just off the back of the green in two as he watched Brandt Snedeker make a mess of the easiest hole on the TPC Boston by hit­ting his approach into the haz­ard and his fourth shot in deep grass short of the green. 
“I was thinking that he was going to just get up-and-down and make bogey, and I was going to make an eagle or birdie,” Day said. “That would have given me a nice little cushion going into tomorrow.” 
It just didn’t work out that way. 
Day capped off an exciting day with a routine birdie for a 5-under 66. In another strange twist Sunday, the largest cheer was for the guy who made par. Snedeker chipped in and shot 67, leav­ing him one shot behind. 
“It would have been a tough way to end the day as well as I played coming in,” Snedeker said. 
Just like so many other times at this tournament, the Deutsche Bank Championship could be up for grabs. 
And so could the No. 1 rank­ing. 
Tiger Woods could only manage one birdie over the last 11 holes and shot a 2­under 69, leaving him tied for 23rd and 10 shots out of the lead. That set the stage for Phil Mickelson or Steve Stricker to end his five-year run atop the world ranking. 
Stricker is closer to the lead. Mickelson has better odds. 
Both of them might have a tough time catching up to Day, the 22-year-old Australian who won the Byron Nelson Championship in May and is starting to play his best golf during the FedEx Cup play­offs. 
Day was at 17-under 196, matching the 54-hole record at the TPC Boston set by Mike Weir two years ago. 
Luke Donald, winless on the PGA Tour in more than four years, was steady again in his first tournament since being picked for Europe’s Ryder Cup team. He birdied the last hole for a 66 and was two shots behind. 

Monday, September 6, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
TENNIS 
Querry keeps U.S. in Open 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Sam Querrey wants to put the “U.S.” back in the U.S. Open. 
It’s been seven years since a man from the United States won the country’s most impor­tant tennis tournament. Indeed, it’s been that long since an American man won any Grand Slam singles title. 
Querrey is all-too-aware of such statistics — and the chat­ter about such droughts. Cheered on by a boisterous, partisan crowd, the 20th-seed­ed Querrey beat 14th-seeded Nicolas Almagro of Spain 6-3, 6-4, 6-4 Sunday to reach the fourth round at Flushing Meadows for the second time in three years. 
“The average sports fan watches the Grand Slams, and they watch on Saturday and Sunday and the semis and the finals,” said the 22-year-old Querrey, the youngest man left in the field. “That’s what we need to do. We need to get some guys there.” 
At the 2009 U.S. Open, zero 
U.S. men reached the quarterfi­nals for the first time in the his­tory of an event that began in 1881. Querrey never has been to the quarterfinals at a major tournament, nor has his next opponent, No. 25-seeded Stanislas Wawrinka of Switzerland. 
Wawrinka upset No. 4 Andy Murray of Britain 6-7 (3), 7-6 (4), 6-3, 6-3 in the only signifi­cant surprise on a day that saw No. 1 Rafael Nadal and four other Spaniards advance: No. 8 Fernando Verdasco, No. 10 David Ferrer, No. 23 Feliciano Lopez, and unseeded Tommy Robredo. 
“Probably the most difficult tournament for us, no?” Nadal said after beating Gilles Simon of France 6-4, 6-4, 6-2. “So that is very important news for Spanish tennis.” 
Murray alone bears the bur­den of Britain’s hopes for its first male Grand Slam champi­on since 1936. He was a popu­lar pick to go far at Flushing Meadows; he was the runner-up at the 2008 U.S. Open and at this year’s Australian Open, also on hard courts. 
“I have no idea whether I’ll win a Grand Slam or not. I want to. But if I never win one, then what? If I give 100 percent, try my best, physically work as hard as I can, practice as much as I can, then that’s all I can do,” said the 23-year-old Murray, who was treated by a trainer for leg and elbow issues. “It’s something I would love to do. It’s a very difficult thing. I don’t know if I’ll win a Grand Slam or not. But I’ll give it my best shot.” 
He served poorly against Wawrinka, putting only half of his first serves in and getting broken eight times. Now Wawrinka will attempt to solve the serve of Querrey, who hit 19 aces at up to 137 mph and never was broken by Almagro. 
“He’s very dangerous on this surface,” Almagro said. “He’s in top form right now.” 
Another American, No. 19 Mardy Fish, won Saturday to earn a spot in the fourth round, where he will take on No. 3 Novak Djokovic of Serbia. And a third, No. 18 John Isner, hoped to join Querrey and Fish in the final 16; Isner was to face No. 12 Mikhail Youzhny of Russia on Sunday night in the last men’s third-round match in Querrey’s section of the draw. 
“We’ve jokingly talked about meeting in the quarters,” Querrey said, looking ahead. “That would be ideal.” 
Depending on how the rest of this tournament goes, Isner, Querrey and Fish could join Andy Roddick — the American who won the 2003 U.S. Open — inside the top 20 in the rank­ings; there haven’t been four 
U.S. men that high in four years. 
On the other hand, when Roddick briefly dropped to 11th in August, it was the first time since the rankings began in 1973 that there were no U.S. men in the top 10. That alone was enough to cue a new cho­rus of questions about the state of the game in a nation that produced Pete Sampras and Andre Agassi, Jimmy Connors and John McEnroe. 
“I mean, you always hear that,” said Querrey, who grew up in California but now lives in Las Vegas. “It’s kind of like any sport. You’ve got waves where you’ll have a group of Americans in the top 10; you might have a couple years where we don’t. It’s like with the Lakers: They’ll win some championships, and (then) they won’t make the playoffs. It’s just like that.” 
With Sunday’s five Spaniards joining No. 21 Albert Montanes, who won Saturday, that country has six members of the last 16 
— tying the record for a country other than the United States at the U.S. Open. 
Dealy 
continued from page 16 
ning conversion in five-set matches this season. Dealy added 14 kills and eight digs, while McHugh started the weekend off strong with 15 kills, two aces, five digs and five blocks. 
The Irish are back on the road next weekend as they head to Denver to compete in the Pioneer Classic, where they will take on Gonzaga, Jacksonville State and Denver. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
SMC SOCCER 
Wisconsin-Oshkosh hands Belles defeat 
Yet the Belles were simply
Observer Staff Report 
overpowered in the second, 
Despite playing a strong allowing goals in the 60th, first half, the Belles fell to 68th, and 69th minutes to 0-3 on the season following give the Titans a 4-1 advan­a 4-2 loss at the hands of tage. Wisconsin-Oshkosh. Saint Mary’s would cut the 
After the Titans (2-1) took lead to two, as junior an early lead in the 18th Katelyn Tondo-Steele netted minute, freshman Mollie a shot in the 80th minute. Valencia brought the Belles Junior goalkeeper Kristen even with her first colle-Nelson notched seven saves giate goal on a free kick for the Belles, who next with less than three minutes take the pitch Wednesday left in the first half. against Illinois Wesleyan. 
MLB 
Yankees cruise past Jays with A-Rod back 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Alex Rodriguez had a pair of hits and drove in a run in his return from the disabled list Sunday, but it wasn’t enough to help the New York Yankees avoid a 7-3 loss to the Toronto Blue Jays that snapped their eight-game winning streak. 
Rodriguez grounded out his first two times up before two singles, including a groundball in which he beat out the throw to first. He struck out looking to end the game. 
“It felt pretty good, definitely a sigh of relief,” Rodriguez said. “You always have a little hesitation. You really don’t want to bust it 100 percent until you get the games under you.” 
Rodriguez hadn’t played since Aug. 20, though his left calf was bothering him before that. 
The All-Star slugger walked through the clubhouse nearly four hours before the first pitch and took batting practice in the indoor cage. Manager Joe Girardi didn’t post the lineup with A-Rod’s name on it until about 90 minutes before the game. 
“We just felt he was ready,” Girardi said. “We feel he’s healed and he’s ready to go.” 
Still missing from the starting lineup was outfielder Nick Swisher, who’s been dealing with a stiff left knee since leav­ing Thursday’s game against Oakland after one inning. He had an MRI exam before the game that came back negative, and Swisher pinch-hit in the eighth inning. 
“There was a deep pocket in the knee where there’s inflam­mation,” Swisher said. “There’s nothing torn or bro­ken, so as far as we’re con­cerned, it’s let’s get it on. I may not be comfortable with it, there may be pain for a few days, but there’s nothing seri­ous.” 
A-Rod has struggled much of the season, at least by his stan­dards, hitting .266 with 21 home runs. But many of his hits have come with runners in scoring position and other clutch situations, and he’s still second on the team with 98 RBIs in only 113 games. 
Eduardo Nunez and Ramiro Pena had been filling in at third base for A-Rod, and while neither of them provides the kind of offense that the three-time AL MVP can produce, the Yankees didn’t miss a beat with them in the lineup. They went 11-3 with Rodriguez on the disabled list, and are 22-3 overall when the 13-time All-Star is out of the lineup. 
“A lot of these guys have done a really, really good job,” said Girardi, who toyed with the idea of giving Rodriguez another day off until his per­formance in a simulated game Saturday. 
“The simulated game gave him a comfort level that he was ready to go.” 
Andy Pettitte was also in the clubhouse before the game and reported no problems after pitching to Rodriguez during the simulated game. He’s hop­ing to have a bullpen session Monday and a minor league rehab start Wednesday, though it’s unclear where that will be. 
“I’m waiting to see,” Pettitte said. “Our minor leagues are all over the place with road games and such. I’d like to do something Wednesday. That’s the plan.” 
Pettitte felt a little sore after his 50-pitch outing but said it was nothing out of the ordi­nary. He’s been out with a strained left groin since July 19, and is still holding out hope that he could rejoin the Yankees during a road trip next week to Tampa Bay and Baltimore. 
page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, September 6, 2010 
Brovsky 
continued from page 16 
Chris Sutton each had qual­ity attempts in the first half, though none materialized into an Irish goal. The Irish out­performed the Golden Bears (1-0-1) on offensive in the first half with 12 shots taken to California’s four. 
However, the Irish offensive took a blow 10 minutes into the contest when Brovsky injured his foot and sat out the rest of the game. 
“We were connecting our passes really well, and we have been getting better since the preseason,” Mena said. “But I can’t stress enough that tonight we just couldn’t finish.” 
Sophomore midfielder Dillon Powers said: “[The Golden Bears] were really disciplined, and they’re organized on defense. They’re tough to play against, they’re very compact and they looked 
Wheaton 
continued from page 16 
loss. 
“Even though we lost three out of our four games, we still succeeded in getting bet­ter each game,” Brink said. “We were able to out-work the opposing teams during rallies.” 
Saint Mary’s split its two matches Saturday, defeating Western New England 3-0 and losing to Elmhurst 3-0. 
Waldrum 
continued from page 16 
The thing I’m still disap­pointed in is we’re still giv­ing up too many shot oppor­tunities. I don’t remember too many actual shots that troubled Nikki too much, and I think we minimized that. You’re going to win games if you keep doing that.” 
Senior forward Rose Augustin played a critical role in both victories. The hard-hitting striker put the Irish (4-0) on the board in just the fourth minute, send­ing a laser from the top of the box that proved to be the to transition very fast.” 
The Irish lost some of their momentum in the second half of the game, as the Bears turned the game around and outshot the Irish 6-5. 
“I think in the second half, as a team, we lost a little belief that we could win,” Powers said. “We found it towards the end, and had a good overtime.” 
Though the Irish performed well in the preseason with three wins and no losses, they lost their first game of the year against No. 5 UCLA Friday during the first game of this weekend’s tournament in Bloomington, Ind. Despite ending their winning streak, the Irish have only allowed three goals through five con­tests. 
“Defensively, we have a lot of new guys out there playing, and I think it’s working to our benefit,” Powers said. “We’re pretty fast in the back, as far as organization, and we have not changed much since last year, only the personalities 
Brink was the key per­former for the Belles in their win over Western New England. The junior setter picked up 10 kills to go along with 26 assists. She added 29 assists to her season total against Elmhurst. Senior libero Meghann Rose and senior defensive specialist Ellen Hueslmann picked up three service aces each. Rose also led the way for the defense with 12 digs. 
As the Belles prepare to face Albion in their first con­ference match of the season 
difference against the No. 8/9 Broncos (3 -1-1). Augustin would show off her leg the following match, launching a 35-yard strike to provide some insurance in Saturday’s victory. 
“She’s one of the players that can smack the ball just like a guy,” Waldrum said. “When you look at it, the ball has a lot of movement. If you were to stand out there behind it and see it, the ball moves a lot.” 
Heading into the season, Augustin was slated to return to her usual position of midfielder, where she has been a staple in the Irish lineup for the past two sea­sons. But after a number of injuries to key players in the have changed.” 
The main goal for the Irish this week will be to focus on following through on offense to put points on the board. 
“I thought we created a lot of chances this game, and eventually some of those chances are going to turn into goals,” Powers said. “That’s what we can take from this game.” 
The Irish will search for their first win of the regular season in the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament Friday, where the Irish welcome Indiana, Drake and California Polytechnic to Alumni Stadium. 
“We’ll need to get stronger all around and become more confident with the ball,” Mena said. “It’s just a fact of repeating it, defending, attacking, and finishing. We’re going to work on all aspects of the game this week.” 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
on Friday, they have some positives to take from this past weekend. They will also be making adjustments so that come out ready to play and begin the MIAA stretch on a positive note. 
“We need to work on keep­ing the same tempo through­out the match, during both the highs and lows,” Brink said. “We will also be work­ing on the execution of each part of the game.” 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
lineup, Waldrum said he needed somebody who “could handle the ball and have some composure up there for us.” 
The veteran has respond­ed, resuming her duties as Waldrum’s No. 1 option to take free kicks, corners and set pieces, while excelling in her new role as a striker on the pitch. Augustin leads the Irish with four goals and has been an excellent compli­ment to junior forward Melissa Henderson. 
“I work on it,” Augustin said. “When I was younger, I worked on just shooting and stuff, and I love shooting. The defense has been doing great. Nikki’s been playing excellent in the back, and all four defenders have been playing great. Without a goal scored on, it’s a big deal.” 
Henderson provided Notre Dame’s first goal less than a minute before Augustin’s score against the Red Raiders (6-1), netting a 12­yard shot following a solid run. Heading into the final two games before Big East play begins, Waldrum is pleased with his team’s con­ditioning and the focus his players bring to every match. 
“The intensity level was very high,” he said. “Overall, the team fitness is good. We didn’t go real, real deep tonight [Friday], that means a lot of players played 90 minutes or close to it. But I think that fitness level is coming along for most of them. I think we’re getting it to where we need to be, and that’s such a big key to come in ready to play fit.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
over the next two weeks for their first home meet of the 
Freshmen 
continued from page 16 
and19:36.01. Patrick Smith crossed the line in eighth place at 20:12.08. 
Both squads wait anxiously season, the National Catholic Invitational, which will be held on September 17 at the Notre Dame Golf Course. 
Contact Robert Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles put up strong showing at invitational 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s finished in third place this weekend with a score of 26 at the Wabash Hokum Karem, an open invi­tational. DePauw University finished first in the event with a score of 12, beating 
out the University of Indianapolis, which took sec­ond place with a score of 17. 
Saint Mary’s coach Jackie Bauters was pleased with her team’s finish in an event fea­turing six competing schools. 
“DePauw is currently ranked 10th in the nation and Indianapolis is a Division II school, so it was great to fin­ish near some of their [run­ners],” Bauters said. “The girls really laid it out there.” 
In its 49th year, the Wabash Hokum Karem is a unique competition. Unlike standard cross country races, runners compete in teams of two, alternating between running successive miles with a string of six miles. 
Team scoring is determined by the aggregate finishing places of the top three pairs of runners from each team. The team with the lowest score wins the event. 
Paired finishes of third, 10th, and 13th led to the composite score of 26. 
The twosome of sophomore Julia Kenney and junior Joanne Almond led the way for Saint Mary's, finishing third overall in the event with a time of 23:27. Seniors Clare McVey and Catie Salyer fol­lowed with a 10th-place fin­ish of 24:45. Sophomore Emma Baker and senior Lauren Easton were the final duo that factored into the scoring for the Belles, cross­ing the line with a time of 24:57, good enough for 13th. 
Bauters said she believes that the format at Wabash provided an important learn­ing opportunity for her team. 
“I think it's a great way to assess the fitness of the team and what we have to work with going forward,” she said. “It's a fun atmosphere and a race that the team really looks forward to.” 
The Belles have two weeks before they take on their next opponent, Calvin, on Sept. 18. Bauters said she hopes the team will be able to develop a sense of cohesion as a team before its next event. 
“Right now, we're trying to get a feel for how we will compete as a team,” she said. “We’re excited to get a few more weeks under our belt before heading up to Calvin, which should be a great place to be tested.” 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 


Monday, September 6, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 
Monday, September 6, 2010 page 16 
MEN’S SOCCER 
Irish blanked by Cal, UCLA to open season 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
After battling for 110 min­utes of playing time, including two overtimes, neither No. 18 Notre Dame nor California was able to score, concluding this weekend’s Adidas/IU Credit Union Classic at Alumni Stadium with a 0-0 tie Sunday. 
“It’s disappointing that we tied. We were the better team for sure,” junior midfielder Adam Mena said. “There were spells in the game where we were really good, but we couldn’t finish. It’s disappoint­ing when you play well and you can’t get a win.” 
The Irish (0-1-1) seemed to be the more dominant team offensively from the beginning of the first home match of the regular season, as senior for­wards Steven Perry and Jeb Brovsky and junior midfielder 
see BROVSKY/page 14 
Held in check 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Sophomore midfielder Dillon Powers fights off a defender during Notre Dame’s 0-0 draw with California Sunday. 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles fall in three of four games 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s dropped to 1-4 on the season after losing three of four games at the Elmhurst College Volleyball Invitational over the weekend. 
The Belles dropped both matches Friday, falling to the University of Chicago 3-0 and Wheaton 3-2. Junior setter Danie Brink led the offense against the Maroons with 30 assists and a service ace. Sophomore middle hitter Allison Zandarski picked up seven digs, three kills and a block in the loss. 
The match against Wheaton went the full five sets, but the Belles lost in heartbreaking fashion after winning the sec­ond and third sets. Zandarski picked up 11 digs, three blocks and nine kills in the 
see WHEATON/page 14 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
Squad earns two wins before falling to Nevada at tourney 
Andrea McHugh were both 25-17). The Irish limited the digs and three blocks, while State to marks of -.038, .000 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
named to the all-tournament Wolf Pack to just 11 points in sophomore outside hitter and .094. 
Sports Writer 
team. Sciacca hit .338 with a the third period, yet were Marie Roof had two aces. On The Irish out-blocked Weber 
2.46 kills per set average and unable to take the final set the defensive side, junior State 15 to two, with sopho-
The Irish took part in their 1.31 block per set while after two lead changes and libero Frenchy Silva had 12 more middle blocker Hilary own battle this weekend at McHugh had 3.31 kills per multiple errors. digs, and freshman setter Eppink earning eight blocks the Nevada Invitational and set, 2 digs per set and a team-Notre Dame posted a hitting Sammie Brown had 47 of the and Roof chipping in six. came out with two wins and a high 52 points across the average of .205 to Nevada’s team’s 54 assists. Notre Dame outlasted loss, defeating Belmont three matches. .188 in the match, but was Earlier in the day, the Irish Belmont 3-2 (25-18, 21-25, Friday and Weber State Notre Dame (4-2) led host out-blocked 18.5 to 13. swept Weber State in three 21-25, 25-17, 15-9) Friday Saturday morning, before Nevada 2-1 early in its final Despite the loss, several straight sets (25-14, 25-15, with help from Dealy, whose falling to Nevada l that night. match, but was unable to fol-Irish players posted impres-25-17), their first sweep of match-point conversion won 
Senior middle blocker and low through like its earlier sive numbers from the match. the season. Notre Dame hit the contest, her second win-outside hitter Kellie Sciacca victories, ultimately losing 3-2 Junior outside hitter Kristen .323, .429 and .357 respec­and freshman outside hitter (23-25, 25-22, 11-25, 25-15, Dealy contributed 19 kills, 15 tively, while holding Weber see DEALY/page 13 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
ND takes two over weekend 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Another two games, anoth­er two shutouts. 
No. 3/4 Notre Dame took down West Coast power Santa Clara 1-0 Friday, before dismantling Texas Tech 2-0 Sunday to extend its winning streak to four games to open the season. 
Senior goalkeeper Nikki Weiss and the Irish defense have yet to allow a goal in four contests, a trend Irish coach Randy Waldrum attrib­utes to a strong work ethic in practice and natural talent between the pipes. 
“It ’s a pattern I’d like,” Waldrum said. “It’s great. 
see WALDRUM/page 14 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Team eager to begin conference season 
By ROBERT GRAHAM 
Sports Writer 
As the Irish got their sea­son underway last week, coach Tim Connelly said that while his squad was in good shape, nobody was quite “race ready.” 
But the women edged out Western Michigan by a score of 26-27 Friday at the Crusader Open at Valparaiso. 
The Irish benefited from strong performances by their upperclassmen. Junior Susanna Sullivan led the Irish with a time of 
18:17.50. Freshman Molly Hirt and junior Kari 
Johnson finished close 
b e h i n d  w i t h  t i m e s  o f  
1 8 : 3 5 . 1 0  a n d  1 8 : 5 6 . 6 1 ,  
respectively.  
The  men  also  won  at the  

Crusader Open, and in more convincing fashion, claiming five of the top six finishes in the race, including places 
one through four. Senior Paul Springer had the top individual finish with a time of 19:34.50. 
The squad also benefitted from strong running on the part of freshmen. Darryl Varney and Kevin Jacobs finished in third and fourth place respectively with times of 19:35.45 
see FRESHMEN/page 14 
IRISH INSIDER 
THE 
Monday, September 6, 2010 observer Notre Dame 23, Purdue 12 
Kelly’s first 
Balanced offense and aggressive defense lead Irish to 23-12 victory 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
Let the Kelly era begin. 
After jumping out to a 17­point lead in the third quar­ter, Notre Dame held on for a 23 -12 win over Purdue Saturday, giving Irish coach Brian Kelly his first win at Notre Dame. 
“[It was a] good way to start the season, obviously,” Kelly said. “There’s a lot of firsts here today: first walk from the Basilica, first pep rally. There’s a lot going on. At times I wasn’t certain if we were going to get lined up for stretching today the right way.” 
There were also a lot of firsts for Notre Dame’s fans, who got a first look at more than just Kelly’s new spread offense. On the field, junior quarterback Dayne Crist made his first career start for the Irish, which was high­lighted by a touchdown pass to freshman wide receiver TJ Jones in the third quarter. Crist finished his first full game 19-for-26 for 205 yards with one touchdown and zero interceptions. 
Off the field, Kelly left his 
own mark on the team by having the Irish enter the field through the student sec­tion before pre-game warm-ups. 
The first quarter started out relatively slowly for both sides, contrasting with Kelly’s quick -strike offense at his previous post at Cincinnati. However, the Irish made the first impact play of the game late in the opening quarter when senior cornerback Darrin Walls made a leaping interception at the Notre Dame 16-yard line. On the ensuing possession, Notre Dame marched down the field with long runs from sopho­more running back Cierre Wood and senior running back Armando Allen, who capped off the drive with a 22-yard touchdown run with 
2:01 remaining in the first quarter. Allen finished the day with 93 yards on the ground and added an electri­fying 38-yard punt return in the third quarter. 
“Without a doubt we push each other, ” Allen said of himself and his back -up, Wood. “We both know we have the capability of going 
out there and making big 
plays.” After a field goal from jun-ior kicker David Ruffer early in the second quarter, Purdue got on the board with a 25­yard field goal from junior Carson Wiggs, capping off a 15-play, 7:19 scoring drive. Ruffer answered right back and gave the Irish a 10-point cushion at halftime, hitting a career-long 46-yard field goal with less than a minute to go in the second quarter. 

The Irish defense came out firing in the second half, reg­istering three sacks in the first five minutes of the third quarter. After Allen’s long punt return following Purdue’s three-and-out on the 
opening drive of the half, Crist connected with Jones for the score, ending a five-play drive that lasted just 
2:12. Jones finished the day with three catches for 41 yards. 
“It’s like nothing I’ve ever felt before,” Jones said of his first career touchdown. “It’s definitely a memory I’ll have for the rest of my life and one I’ll cherish.” 
For a moment it looked as if the Irish had increased their lead to 23 points during Purdue’s next possession when junior defensive end Kapron Lewis-Moore scooped up a fumble from Boilermakers quarterback Robert Marve and raced towards the end zone for an apparent touchdown. However, video replays showed that Marve’s knee was down when the ball came out, overturning the play. 
Following a Purdue punt, Notre Dame drove deep into Boilermakers territory, before junior wide receiver Michael Floyd fumbled on the two-yard line and Purdue recov­ered. 
On the Boilermakers’ next possession, Marve appeared to be driving Purdue in for their first touchdown of the year, but defensive tackle Ian Williams intercepted a tipped ball on the Notre Dame three-yard line on the first play of the fourth quarter to end the Boilermakers’ threat. 
The turnover backfired for Notre Dame on the next play when Purdue’s Ryan Kerrigan and Charlton Williams stopped Allen in the end zone for a Boilermakers safety. 
Following the safety, Marve capped off a 55-yard scoring drive with a 23-yard touch­down run that narrowed the Notre Dame lead to single digits. The Irish defense kept the lead safe the rest of the way, and Ruffer added his third field goal of the game to increase the Irish lead to its final tally of 23-12. 
The win improved Notre Dame’s record in openers against Purdue to 7-1 and ended a five -game losing streak with a first-time start­ing quarterback under center. 
Kelly became the third straight Notre Dame coach to win his debut; the last to lose his first game was Lou Holtz. 
Notre Dame’s players offered high praise for their new boss after the game. 
“We are so proud of [coach Kelly],” Crist said. “That’s our leader and that’s the guy that anybody would run through a wall for.” 
Sophomore linebacker Carlo Calabrese, who led the team with nine tackles, echoed Crist. 
“He is a great coach,” Calabrese said. “He expects a lot out of us and makes us go all out all of the time on every play, and I really respect him.” 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 
player of the game stat of the game play of the game quote of the game 
David Ruffer 24:55 Armando Allen’s 22-yard touchdown 
“I’m trying to lead the team. It’s not
Irish kicker run with 2:01 left in the first quarter 
something I work on. I’m made to put 
Notre Dame held the ball for less pressure on the quarterback.” Ruffer converted two extra point than 25 minutes, compared to Allen put the Irish on the board with attempts and three field goals — Purdue’s 35:05, including only the assistance of receiver Michael Ian Williams 
including a 46-yarder. 3:44 in the third quarter. Floyd’s crucial downfield block. Irish defensive tackle on his interception 


page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 6, 2010 
report card 
B 
A 
B­
B 
A+ B B+ A+ 
B+ 
quarterbacks: Dayne Crist certainly didn’t do anything wrong, completing 19 of his 26 attempts for 205 yards and one touchdown. Neither did he do anything great, missing multiple open targets. 
running backs: Armando Allen and Cierre Wood combined for 151 yards on 25 car­ries and one touchdown. Allen was tack­led for a safety in the fourth quarter, but that was mostly his blockers’ fault. 
receivers: TJ Jones did pull in his first career touchdown, but outside of that, the deep receiving corps largely disappointed. Floyd fumbled on the two-yard line, and Theo Riddick dropped a few passes. 
offensive line: The two sacks allowed were at least partly because Crist held the ball too long. The safety Purdue earned in the fourth quarter 
was due to o-line miscommunication. 
defensive line: The starting three line­
men recorded 3.5 sacks of a mobile quarterback, and defensive tackle Ian Williams even managed a red zone interception. 
linebackers: Manti Te’o missed a few sure tackles, and Brian Smith was caught completely out of position on Marve’s 
touchdown run. Carlo Calabrese led the 
Irish with nine tackles. 
defensive backs: Darrin Walls’ interception in the first quarter on the ND 16 shifted momentum toward the Irish. Gary Gray led the Irish with eight solo tackles, and no Purdue receivers were left unchecked. 
special teams: David Ruffer converted 
three field goals. Both Cierre Wood and 
Armando Allen helped the Irish field 
position with long returns, and Bennett 
Jackson showed a knack for tackling. 
coaching: The Irish played conservative 
on the offensive side of the ball, and that was part of the reason the game 
was close at the end. The new 3-4 defense outperformed expectations. 
overall: A convincing yet sloppy 
season-opening win. With new schemes on both side of the ball, 
3.44 
some sloppiness should have been expected. 
adding up the numbers 
The number of Irish players making their first game appearances against Purdue, including 
14 
six freshmen. 
19 
Consecutive regular-season wins by a team coached by Brian Kelly, dating back to Oct. 25, 2008. 
Dayne Crist’s 205 passing yards were the third-most by an Irish quarterback in 
205 
his starting debut since 1985. 
The Irish defensive line quickly set the tone 3 for the second half by recording three of the team’s four sacks within the first seven minutes of the half. 
Notre Dame’s first touchdown drive went for 84 yards, longer than all but four touchdown 
84
drives in 2009. 
4 
By winning his debut, Crist snapped a four-
game losing streak by Notre Dame quarterbacks in their debuts. 
Yards per carry for Armando Allen and Cierre Wood in their 25 carries, including 
6.04 
longs of 22 and 16 yards, respectively. 
Dayne Crist completed passes to seven differ­7 ent targets, including five each to Michael Floyd and Kyle Rudolph. 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Irish coach Brian Kelly leads the Irish onto the field Saturday before his first game as Irish coach. Among the many changes Kelly has instituted in the football program, the team entered via the student section instead of the tunnel when it took the field for warm-ups prior to the game. 
Success is not simply one win 
Well done, Brian Kelly. Well done, student section. Well done, Notre Dame fans. Well done, Armando Allen. Well 
done, Cierre Wood. Well done, Jack Swarbrick? Well, not quite 
yet on that one. 
Coach Kelly led the Irish to a well-rounded 23-12 victory Saturday over Purdue, and the student section’s “BRI-AN KEL­LY” chant after Douglas Farmer the game served notice the first-year coach has Sports Editor the full support of the greenest corner of the Stadium. 

Running backs Armando Allen and Cierre Wood gashed the Boilermakers defense for 151 yards on only 25 carries. 
And the Irish fans, for the first time in recent memory, stuck around en masse after the game to give their team its due credit. In fact, by the time the band had con­cluded the Alma Mater, only seven sections in Notre Dame Stadium had emptied — the sections former­ly filled with Purdue fans in the upper echelons of the south end-zone. 
Now what about director of ath­letics Swarbrick, the man in charge of hiring Kelly? The man who, after the game, made a point to shake the hand of every member of the Irish coaching staff? The man who, ultimately, is as responsible for Kelly’s legacy as Kelly is? 
Swarbrick’s decision to hire Kelly can’t be lauded just yet, after only one game. That’s not to say that Kelly should be doubted, but the victory over Purdue is just that: a victory over Purdue, not exactly a traditional powerhouse by any means. 
There were many positive signs both on and off the field. As previ­ously mentioned, the running game clicked throughout the game. By no means did the Irish offense depend solely on wide receiver Michael Floyd, as so often happened last year when the team relied too heav­ily on Golden Tate. 
The Notre Dame defense actually tackled in the open field, a funda­mental accomplishment that for the majority of last year went unseen, and the Irish managed four sacks throughout the game, compared to a total of 19 in 12 games last sea­son. The sacks factor is even more surprising when one realizes the Notre Dame defense did not rely on blitz after blitz after blitz to pro­duce pressure on the quarterback. 
Beyond those tangible changes involved in the game, less notice­able changes fuel even more opti­mism among Irish faithful. 
Kelly and his coaching staff looked decently professional as they sported dress pants and gold fleece pullovers on the sideline, especially when compared to the previous norm of bulky hooded sweatshirts. Furthermore, the Irish played as a team, supporting one another and celebrating in unison. There were no individual accomplishments or failures on the field Saturday. Allen only scampered 22 yards for a touchdown because Floyd managed to hold his block upfield through the end of the play. Similarly, Allen was stuffed for a safety in the fourth quarter not because of his failure, but because the offensive line whiffed on three blocks. 
These are all encouraging signs, but that is all they are: encourag­ing. 
Notre Dame fans need to remem­ber Saturday was only one day. ESPN is already gearing up to pro­nounce Notre Dame “back.” It was not by accident that ESPN placed the Irish on the front page of its website on the same day that No. 4 Florida tried to hand a game to Miami (OH) and No. 18 North Carolina staged a furious, albeit not furious enough, last-minute rally against No. 21 LSU. 
ESPN, and the rest of the media 
— The Observer included — want Notre Dame to be “back,” if for no other reason than it helps ratings and subscriptions. 
But Irish fans need to caution their excitement for at least a few more weeks. If Michigan gains an early lead Saturday, who knows if Floyd will hold that block, or if the defense will opt for the risky play rather than the sure-tackle. If the Irish need to come from behind, there is no proof as of now that jun­ior quarterback Dayne Crist can lead that rally. 
So I’m sorry, Mr. Swarbrick, but it will be at least a few more weeks before I can congratulate you on a job well done. 
Although, I look forward to having that opportunity. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily of The Observer. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 

Monday, September 6, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Changes evident in defensive play 

JULIE HERDER/The Observer 
Irish linebackers Manti Te’o, Darius Fleming and Carlo Calabrese, from left, celebrate with senior cornerback Darrin Walls after he intercepted Purdue quarterback Robert Marve deep in Notre Dame territory in the first quarter. 
defense come up big when the game with the defensive effort, but there 
By SAM WERNER 
was on the line in the fourth quarter. were definitely areas for improve-
Sports Writer 
“It’s a testament to conditioning ment. 
coach [Paul] Longo,” Williams said. “We really want our guys to play 
If the theme of Notre Dame’s 23-12 “We actually had a rotation this year fast and I thought they played fast win over Purdue Saturday was the and it kept us fresh.” today,” Kelly said. “I thought they change that new coach Brian Kelly Another difference on defense for were aggressive. We can get better. had brought to the Irish, there was the Irish was the We missed a lot of no place where that change was switch to defensive tackles today and more apparent than the top of the coordinator Bob there’s some key play­
“We really want our guys 
defensive stat sheet. Diaco’s “gap con-ers on our team that 
While senior cornerback Gary Gray trol” scheme, as to play fast and I thought missed a lot of tackles led the team with nine tackles, he opposed to former they played fast today. I today.” was tied with sophomore linebackers coordinator Jon Kelly was likely refer-
thought they were
Carlo Calabrese and Manti Te’o. In Tenuta’s blitz-ring to Te’o, who, all, four of Notre Dame’s top six tack-heavy system. aggressive. We can get despite tying for the lers Saturday were linebackers. “They blitzed better.” team lead in tackles, This marks a stark change from last almost every down missed several more. year, when safeties Kyle McCarthy last year and I “He swung and 
Brian Kelly 
and Harrison Smith routinely led the thought that creat-missed a lot out of the team in tackles. More tackles from ed some huge holes Irish coach strike zone, which was linebackers means less times that that we were able uncharacteristic for Purdue’s running backs and receivers to take advantage him,” Kelly said in a were able to get to the second level. of,” Purdue coach Danny Hope said. teleconference Sunday. “He was in 
Senior nose tackle Ian Williams said “And they did not blitz as much, and great position so many times. I just the defensive change starts at the top. so the holes were smaller.” think in the first game, maybe a little 
“[Defensive line] coach [Mike] Perhaps the most welcome defen-bit too excited. He’s got to slow down Elston is one of the best coaches I’ve sive difference for Irish fans was the a step. He was in great position, got ever had and he really puts pressure amount of open-field tackles made by our checks down very well. He just on us to produce and have fun out Notre Dame players. Saturday, Irish missed uncharacteristically some there unlike in the past,” Williams players limited Purdue’s ability to tackles that I’m very confident he’s said. “We also have fresh rotations gain yards after contact. Most going to make in the future.” too.” notably, Gray finished with a career-
Williams added that the increased high eight solo tackles. Contact Sam Werner at player rotations helped the Irish In all, Kelly said he was pleased swerner@nd.edu 
Win extends Kelly’s 19-game streak 
By DOUGLAS FARMER Sports Editor  1934. The season-opening victo­ry is Notre Dame’s fifth in  and Danny Spond. Special teams  and the shield trying to get straight through the block­ing.”  
A new era Irish coach Brian Kelly extended his regular-season w i n n i n g s t r e a k t o 1 9 g a m e s . O n l y o n e a c t i v e Football Bowl Subdivision coach has won more con­s e c u t i v e r e g u l a r-s e a s o n games. Chris Peterson of B o i s e S t a t e h a s w o n 2 5 straight. B y w i n n i n g h i s d e b u t , Kelly fit in with the vast  the past six years. More on debuts Kelly was not the only one making his debut for Notre Dame. Six freshmen, and a total o f 1 4 p l a y e r s , s a w t h e i r f i r s t a c t i o n S a t u r d a y. Sophomore running back Cierre Wood took the first seven carries of his career for 58 yards, while sopho­m o r e l i n e b a c k e r C a r l o  After making three field goals, of 22-, 46-and 37­yards, respectively, senior kicker David Ruffer is now a perfect eight-for-eight in h i s c a r e e r. T h e 4 6 -y a r d ki c k i s a ca re e r-l ong f or Ruffer. F r e s h m a n r e c e i v e r Bennett Jackson may not have gotten in on any offen­sive snaps, but he made an impact on the stats sheet with four tackles on kickoff  Interceptions Senior cornerback Darrin Wal ls’ last two interc ep -t i o n s h a v e b o t h c o m e against Purdue. Walls inter­cepted Purdue quarterback Robert Marve in the first quarter Saturday, his first interception since meeting Purdue last season. S e n i o r n o s e t a c k l e I a n Williams has two intercep­tions in his career, one in  
majority of Irish football c o a c h e s . N o t r e D a m e coaches are 26-3 in their debuts since 1896. Only one coach — Lou Holtz, the last  Calabrese led the Irish with nine tackles. Freshmen making their Irish debuts were corner­back Lo Wood, receivers TJ  returns. “ I f o c u s e d o n g e t t i n g down the field and getting off a few blocks and making the tackle,” Jackson said.  the fourth quarter Saturday and one last season against Was h i ng t o n S t a t e in S an Antonio. Both came in Irish victories.  
I r i s h  c o a c h  t o  w i n  a  Jones, Bennett Jackson and  “We worked it all week  so  
National Championship — Austin Collinsworth, and h a s l o s t h i s d e b u t s i n c e linebackers Prince Shembo  we knew what to do. I was pretty much like the sword  Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu  

scoring summary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
N otre D am e  7  6  7  3  23  
Purdue  0  3  0  9  12  

First quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Purdue 0 
Armando Allen 22-yd run (David Ruffer kick) with 2:01 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 84 yards, 2:26 elapsed. 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 10, Purdue 0 
David Ruffer 22-yd field goal with 11:09 remaining. Drive: 8 plays, 50 yards, 2:53 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 10, Purdue 3 
Carson Wiggs 25-yd field goal with 3:50 remaining. Drive: 15 plays, 79 yards, 7:19 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 13, Purdue 3 
David Ruffer 46-yd field goal with 0:43 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 45 yards, 3:07 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 20, Purdue 3 
TJ Jones 5-yd pass from Dayne Crist (Ruffer kick) with 10:20 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 30 yards, 2:12 elapsed. 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 20, Purdue 5 
Team safety with 14:48 remaining 
Notre Dame 20, Purdue 12 
Robert Marve 23-yd run (Wiggs kick) with 
11:55 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 55 yards, 2:53 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 23, Purdue 12 
David Ruffer 37-yd field goal with 4:30 remaining Drive: 10 plays, 39 yards, 3:47 elapsed. 
statistics 
total yards 

rushing yards 

passing yards 

Time of Possession 

passing  
Crist  19-26-205  Marve  31-42-220  
rushing  
Allen  18-93  Dierking  9-56  
Wood  7-58  Marve  10-44  
Crist  9-6  Edison  4-17  
Henry  3-16  
Crank  2-5  
receiving  
Floyd  5-82  Smith, K.  12-80  
Rudolph  5-43  Siller  4-34  
Jones  3-41  Dierking  5-28  
Wood  2-14  Smith, C.  3-23  
Riddick  2-13  Adams  3-21  
Kamara  1-12  Edison  2-11  
Allen  1-0  Crank  1-14  

page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 6, 2010 


A promising start 
More than eight months after he was hired, Irish coach 
Brian Kelly led Notre Dame to a season-opening victory. A balanced offense, led by Dayne Crist’s 205 passing yards and Armando Allen’s 93 rushing yards, scored two touchdowns. The defense, returning to a 3-4 format after spending last season in the 4-3, was just as convincing, holding Purdue to only 4.4 yards per play. Carlo Calabrese started alongside Manti Te’o and recorded nine tackles in his first action for the Irish, while both Darrin Walls and Ian Williams intercepted Purdue quarterback Robert Marve. 



Clockwise from top: Linebacker Kerry Neal pursues a fumble — replays later showed the runner was down before he lost the ball; receiver Michael Floyd turns upfield after pulling in a pass; defensive end Ethan Johnson celebrates a tackle for a loss; quarterback Dayne Crist lets loose a pass over a Purdue defender; and cornerback Darrin Walls breaks up a pass. 




