
the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


ND community eager to aid in Haiti relief 
University students, faculty respond to Tuesday’s earthquake that devastated the already impoversished nation 


By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
After the 7.0 -magnitude earthquake struck Haiti Tuesday, students poured into the student government office in LaFortune Student Center and asked student body president Grant Schmidt, “What’s our plan?” 
“A lot of students have been asking how to give money, ” Schmidt said. “I know a lot of people want to help.” 
The New York Times is reporting the death toll could be up to 50,000. 
Student government has been working with leaders of clubs and organizations on campus to organize a relief effort for the people of Haiti. 
“I think we’ve got a pretty good plan in place,” he said. 
Cash boxes will be set up throughout campus this weekend in places such as LaFortune Student Center, the dining halls and the dorms for students to donate money, which will then be transferred to an account set up by student government and the University. The funds will be donated to American Red Cross, Catholic Relief Services, fundraising efforts of Friends of the Orphans, Congregation of Holy Cross and the Notre Dame Haiti Program. 
Students can also bring money to the student govern­ment office in the Student Center from 10 p.m. to 12 a.m. 
“The best way we can help right now is by collecting donations,” Schmidt said. 
He said student govern ­ment and the other campus groups, however, have start­ed brainstorming additional creative ways to raise money. 
Junior Michael Daly is a founder of Friends of the Orphans (FOTO), an on-cam­pus club that raises money to support nine orphanages in 
L a t i n  A m e r i c a  a n d  t h e  
C a r i b b e a n .  O n e  o f  t h e  
orphanages is in Haiti.  

Daly spent two weeks in Haiti over the summer shad­owing a priest and doctor, Fr. Rick Frechette, who is 
see HAITI/page 6 


ACEworks to increase enrollment 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
A University of Notre Dame task force recently announced its plan to provide educational opportuni­ties for Latino children by doubling the enrollment of Latino children in Catholic schools over the next decade. 
The Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) and the Institute for Latino Studies has recently announced its new national cam­paign “The Catholic School Advantage” which seeks to enroll one million Latino students in Catholic elementary schools and high schools by 2020. 
The task force was established over a year ago and the group’s report, “To Nurture the Soul of a Nation: Latino Families, Catholic Schools, and Educational Opportunity,” was released this year on the Feast of Our Lady of Guadalupe. Both ACE and the Institute for Latino Studies are col­laborating with more than 50 groups to try and both provide educational opportunities to the Latino community in the United States, as well as striving to keep American Catholic schools open. 
“One of the reasons ACE is focused on strengthening and sus­taining Catholic schools is because Catholic education has been proven to be an advantage to minorities,” said Fr. Timothy Scully, the chairman of ACE and a mem­
see ACE/page 4 


Class of 2014 predicted to be strong 
By JOSEPH McMAHON 
Associate News Editor 
The 1,801 students admitted early to Notre Dame might be one of the most talented classes as well as the most ethnically diverse in the history of the University, director of under­graduate admissions Dan Saracino said. 
Because he still doesn’t know who will commit to Notre Dame, however, Saracino said it is still impossible to determine what the class will really look like. 
“It’s safe to say the 2014 class will be every bit as talented and possibly more so than previous classes,” he said. “Based on pro­jections, [the Class of 2014 could be] the most talented and ethni­cally diverse class in our histo­ry.” 
Saracino said the Office of Undergraduate Admission received 4,200 applications, rep­resenting a 10 percent increase from last year. Of those admit­ted, Saracino said he believed around 60 percent would com­mit to Notre Dame. 
“You have a higher yield on the students who you admit early because they’re interested enough that they are applying early,” he said. 
Saracino cautioned against declaring the Class of 2014 the 
see EARLY/page 4 





Crowley speaks at film’s advance screening 
‘Extraordinary Measures’ tells inspirational story of ‘92 ND Law alum and family 
MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer John Crowley, Notre Dame Law ‘92, introduces Thursday evening’s early screening of ‘Extraordinary Measures.’ 
By JENN METZ 
News Writer 
John Crowley and Dr. Kasturi Haldar introduced Thursday night ’s advance screening of “Extraordinary Measures ” with words of hope about the fight against rare and under-researched diseases. 
Crowley, a 1992 Notre Dame Law School alumnus, and his family are the inspi­ration of the film starring Brendan Fraser and Harrison Ford. The two youngest Crowley children, Megan, 13, and Patrick, 11, suffer from Pompe disease, a rare neuromuscular disor­der. 
Haldar, the director of Notre Dame ’s Center for Rare and Neglected Diseases, described the film as “the amazing story of the amazing success they ’ve had at fighting back this disease and keeping their children alive.” 
Crowley ’s wife Aileen accompanied him to the screening. Haldar praised the couple for their “remarkable value of life.” 
“In comparison, the rest 
of us have a very poor understanding of it because 
see CROWLEY/page 6 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Money saving tips page 3  A review of ‘Extraordinary Measures’ page 12  Women’s basketball takes on UConn page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Friday, January 15, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Snowy transition 
Getting back in the swing of things is never easy. 

This is a concept that is hitting home for all of us right now more than ever. Second semester always poses its own unique challenges that the fall does not. One of the more frustrating of these issues is without a doubt, the South Bend winter. 
It’s funny because by how I Ashley Charnley approach winter and the shock I Saint Mary’s get every season 

Editor 

at the cold and snow here, you would think I came from the South. Sadly no though, I come from about an hour east. With the exception of a little less lake-effect snow, I have had the exact same winters my entire life. 
My roommate is from Georgia, and she always complains that she is colder and I should be used to it. I have found that a human simply cannot adjust to below freezing temperatures. Possibly we have been spoiled by the heaters and cozy fireplaces of our youth. It’s hard to tell. 
What puzzles me most is that I used to love the snow. 
It was magical to see the white snow fall and know that I would be able to get out of school and play all day long. I wouldn’t have to worry about responsibility or going anywhere. All I had to do was play. 
I am not sure the exact day I stopped loving snow. Probably right around the time that I had to start warming up the car to go to work and school was about the time. Now, worst of all, a class day will not be cancelled because we can simply throw on our big boots and trudge through salty, previous­ly ice-covered sidewalks to get there. 
So, here we are in the vacation drought between Christmas and Spring Break, trying to wade our way through the perils of South Bend’s winter weather. I have a proposition. How about we try and make the most of it. How about we take a little time out to play in the snow again? I realize that will also be challenged in this endeavor. I curse the fluffy stuff just as much as the next person. 
However, I think it is about time to be a little more optimistic. I will admit, if it was plausible to move the whole of Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame to the Caribbean or somewhere in Hawaii, I would make that proposition first. I’ll try to look into that actually. 
In the meantime though, how about we try to adopt a more posi­tive attitude as the flakes fall and the wind adds a little rosiness to our cheeks. I mean, most of us used to love this time of year. Why don’t we all try to channel those feelings again? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS THE BEST ICE CREAM AT THE DINING HALL? 





Gabe McDonald  Laura McCarty  Josh Zielinski  Allie Hawkins  Sam Wilhite  
sophomore Duncan  junior McGlinn  sophomore Dillon  freshman Breen-Phillips  freshman Morrissey  
“Rainbow  “Mint chocolate  “Butter pecan,  “Vanilla froyo,  “Mint froyo  
sherbert.”  chip is God’s  because butter  in a cup, with  with a TON of  
gift to ice  makes  Reese’s and  sprinkles.”  
cream.”  everything  sometimes  
better.”  sprinkles.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

TOM YOUNG/The Observer Many students plan to relax this weekend at Tyler Hilton’s concert Saturday at 10 p.m. after the first week of classes. 
OFFBEAT 
Unhappy meal: woman charged in McD’s rampage 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. – A woman has been charged with trashing a McDonald’s restaurant in Missouri because she was unhappy with her cheeseburger. Police said they received many tips after releasing video of the Dec. 27 inci­dent. 
In the video, which has been viewed hundreds of thousands of times online, a customer is seen throwing a sign and a water dispenser over a counter and pushing three cash registers to the floor. 
On Tuesday, the Jackson County prosecutor’s office charged 19-year-old Alesha McMullen of Kansas City with Class D felony property damage. It wasn’t immedi­ately known if McMullen has an attorney. A phone listing for her could not be found. 
NC officers find underground pot garden in buried bus 
KINSTON, N.C. – An undercover drug buy led North Carolina detectives to an underground mari­juana garden in a buried school bus. 
Multiple media outlets reported Thursday the Lenoir County Sheriff’s Office had been looking for the source of the marijua­na for three years and had been flying over the area with a helicopter. 
Then sheriff’s narcotics officers bought several pounds of pot in a recent undercover buy. Sgt. Eddie Eubanks says officers traced the pot to a rural residence. 
A search dog fell through a camouflaged trap door leading down to a full-length school bus buried 8 feet under a backyard tool shed. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Saturday Sunday 

IN BRIEF 
The film “A Ripple of Hope” will be shown at the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center tonight at 7 p.m. Tickets can be pur­chased at the box office or online at performingarts.nd.edu 
“Try It, You’ll Like It” week continues across campus at recreation centers. Attend fit­ness classes for free today through January 17. 
Night of Relaxation will take place Saturday from 9 p.m. to 12 a.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom, featuring free chair massages. The event is free. 
An anti-racism workshop, part of the Martin Luther King Jr. Diversity Series, will take place Friday from 6 p.m. to 9 p.m., Saturday from 8:30 a.m. to 6 p.m. and Sunday from 
8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. in the Oak Room on the second floor of LaFortune. Notre Dame fac­ulty, staff and students are welcome to attend with required registration. Contact Toby Blake at tblake@nd.edu for more information or to reg­ister. 
There will be a student skate night Saturday from 7 
p.m. to 9 p.m. at the Joyce Center Hockey Rink. There will be a $2 skate rental fee. 
Student Union Board will show a movie, “The Box,” Thursday at 10 p.m., Friday at 8 p.m. and 10:30 p.m. and Saturday at 8 p.m. and 10:30 
p.m. at 101 DeBartolo Hall. The cost is $3. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Monday Tuesday 

Atlanta 59 / 36 Boston 45 / 26 Chicago 33 / 24 Denver 48 / 33 Houston 57 / 48 Los Angeles 73 / 48 Minneapolis 33 / 19 New York 45 / 30 Philadelphia 47 / 31 Phoenix 73 / 48 Seattle 51 / 43 St. Louis 40 / 33 Tampa 73 / 59 Washington 51 / 35 

Friday, January 15, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


SMC seniors offer money tips 
and like to eat off campus but store or at a department store, 
By ALICIA SMITH that can get expensive really if I find something that I want 
News Writer quickly. So it’s a good idea to to buy I try to take five minutes 
set aside a certain amount and walk around and decide if I 
With the cost of admission, every month of what you are really actually want to buy it room and board, books and a willing to spend off campus,” and if it’s actually a good variety of other school supplies, she said. enough deal,” Niemann said. college students can be finan-Budgeting can be one helpful “If in 10 minutes you feel that it cially strapped at the beginning way to avoid wouldn’t be a of each new semester. Saint overspending good purchase Mary’s seniors Sara Niemann and overdraft “If in 10 minutes you then you can and Aimee Cunniff, both busi-charges from feel that it wouldn’t kind of walk ness administration and eco-the bank. away from it 
be a good purchase 

nomics majors, have, however, Another help-easier.“ devised several tips students ful trick, Cunniff then you can kind of Another way can follow to spend less and said, is to be walk away from it students can save their hard-earned cash. mindful of what save money, 
easier.” 

“I would say the first thing is being pur-she said, is by that I do when I’m trying to chased. If stu-using coupons save money is have something dents only buy Sara Niemann and watching that I’m trying to save for, some things that are Saint Mary’s senior for discounts sort of goal,” Niemann said. truly necessary, locally. By “Like when I was a sophomore they will not be checking sales I knew I was going to be study-wasteful with their money. in local stores, students can ing abroad so I knew that if I “A lot of people don’t realize spend less on things that they wanted to have more money to how much just a morning cof-need to buy. spend over fee can add up “I’d say one of the biggest there I should as opposed to ways is to try and check out be more thrifty “Budget how much buying a coffee some more low priced things in here.” machine and your area. It sounds kind of 
you want to spend off
According to making coffee in silly but even getting the 
campus every
Cunniff, anoth-the morning,” Sunday paper and clipping er way to start semester.” she said. “Take coupons for things that you building up a some time to do know that you’re going to have bank account is research and to buy — shampoo or tooth-
Aimee Cunniff
to set a budget. shop around if paste and that stuff can kind of 
Saint Mary’s senior 
Having a budg-it’s a standard-add up if you save a few dollars et can prepare ized product. If here or there,” she said. “And students in it’s clothes or then also checking out places advance for what expenditures books or music, really think like Salvation Army and they may have each month. about if you really truly need Goodwill not just for things like Students can also plan ahead it.” clothing but if you need a new for leisure spending, she said. Niemann agreed it is impor-lamp in your room or some­
“Budget how much you want tant to determine the value of thing like that.” to spend off campus every an item before buying it. semester. I know a lot of stu-“When I go shopping, Contact Alicia Smith at dents get sick of the dining hall whether it’s at the grocery asmith01@nd.edu 
Speaker stirs mixed reviews 
“The choice is not some-interesting experiences, and 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 

one I’m thrilled about, but if he can do a good job 
News Writer 

it ’s a lot better than I transferring that into a 
expected,” Hackner said. “I speech then I think he ’d 
The announcement that thought the University make a really good speak-NBC Nightly News anchor would pick someone com-er.” Brian Williams will be the pletely obscure after all the Other seniors, such as principal speaker at Notre controversy last year.” Allegra Gassman, are frus­Dame’s Commencement was Hackner also said this trated with this year ’s met with a variety of reac-year’s speaker choice. tions from this year’s senior has not gener-“I get that 
“The choice is not 

class. ated as much people who Although the choice has debate among someone I’m thrilled are interest-not garnered such explosive students as last about, but it’s a lot ed in political backlash and criticism as year’s selection science or 
better than I

last year’s choice, President did. j o u r n a l i s m Barack Obama, some stu-“The reaction expected.” will be inter-dents are still not in favor of isn’t as strong ested in what the selection, while others this time, ” Mr. Williams 
Michelle Hackner 

are waiting to hear Hackner said. has to say, 
senior

Williams’ speech before they “There are few but I bet a lot make up their minds. Senior people who of students Adam Woodruff falls into could generate more contro-probably don’t really know the latter category. versy at Notre Dame than who he is or don’t really 
“I don ’t really have a Obama.” watch NBC Mews,” Gassman strong opinion either way,” Senior Michelle Perone is said. “They could have Woodruff said. “Hopefully optimistic that Williams will picked a CEO or someone [Brian Williams] will have be able to deliver a relevant else who has led an inter-some worthwhile advice for and interesting message to esting life but is more us.” the class of 2010, especially accessible to a wider range 
Michelle Hackner because of his diverse expe-of students.” expressed a similar opinion, riences as a reporter. Gassman also expressed and said she Among other disappointment that stu ­did not have t o p i c s , dents did not have any input high hopes Williams has into choosing the speaker. for the speak-“Hopefully [Brian covered the “I don’t know if it’s only a er in the first Williams] will have collapse of the select group of students that place, espe -Berlin Wall get to help choose, but I did-
some worthwhile
cially after and has spent n’t receive any information last year ’s advice for us.” time with mili-about that and neither did controversy, tary units in any of my friends,” Gassman w h i c h f e a -Iraq. said. “It’s our graduation, so 
Adam Woodruff 
tured on-and “He’s a really I feel like every senior 
senior
o f f -c a m p u s respected jour-should get to make a sug­protests and a nalist so he ’s gestion or somehow influ­large amount definitely well-ence the selection process.” of criticism from religious informed about what’s going groups as well as Notre on in the world, ” Perone Contact Irena Zajickova at  Dame students and alumni. said. “He ’s had a lot of izajicko@nd.edu 
Phase Two of Library renovation continues 
meeting, my role is to [bring 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
up] the basic needs — coffee, 
News Writer 
more study spaces and out­
lets,” she said. 
The Campus Committee of The other undergraduate the Hesburgh Library student representative on the Renovation Team continues to committee is JoAnna Roman, plan Phase Two of the library and the graduate student rep-renovation, which will involve resentative is Lauren restructuring of the first and Whitnah. second floors. Weber said she does not 
“We want to make [the believe the library renovation library] a better environment is a huge talking point yet for our users, we want to among students because the make the building work bet-schematics have not yet been ter,” Denise Shorey, chair of finalized. the Library Services and “By March the Campus Programs Committee, said. Committee will begin looking “We want the library to be at schematics, ” she said. able to respond more effi-“Right now we’re looking at ciently and effectively to the programming — identifying needs of the campus.” what technology, what 
Shorey said the pre-plan-resources are needed.” ning for the second phase of Weber said she hopes the the renovation began during renovation will encourage the 2007 -2008 academic more student and faculty year. The library announced interaction within the library. plans for the renovation last Phase Two of the renovation spring, and construction is will be done in two parts. targeted to begin during the Each part will last from 10­summer of 2011. 12 months, Weber said. The 
The total anticipated cost of library will still remain com-the construction will be pletely functional. $26.55 million, according to “You can’t have a renova­the Hesburgh Libraries Web tion without a degree of dis-site. Phase Two of the reno-ruption, but we will certainly vation includes the space make every attempt to make north of the it as undisrup­central con -tive as possi ­course and the “We want to make ble,” Shorey 
Faculty Lounge [the library] a better said. 
on the first Shorey said 
environment for our
floor, as well as one of the chal­the entire sec-users, we want to lenges of the ond floor. make the building renovation is 
The architec-addressing the 
work better. We want 
tural firm different needs Shepley the library to be able of students, Bulfinch to respond more staff and facul-Richardson & ty. 
effciently and
Abbott created “We’re look ­a master plan effectively to the ing at a grand for the library needs of the campus.” reading room, renovation for instance. back in 2000 We’ ve heard 
Denise Shorey 
before Phase repeatedly from One of the ren-chair faculty mem ­
ovation, the Library Services and bers that they lower level, Programs Committee want their pri­had been com-mary texts close pleted. Shorey to an area said this master plan was a where they can work,” she starting point for Phase Two, said. but is outdated in many Shorey said it is important aspects. Shepley was hired for the library to be both a again to design the floor plan place to study and to social-for Phase Two, she said. ize. She said the renovation 
“The vision is still the same will bring the scattered staff that we will have a chance to offices together in one loca­improve and increase our col-tion and will include the lections [and that] the library addition of more group con-will be a place for social and sultation rooms, classrooms intellectual interaction, ” and training rooms. Shorey said. “There simply is not enough 
One of the biggest goals of appropriate space on campus the renovation, Shorey said, for students to use for study-is to improve the overall ing and collaboration,” he appearance of the library — said. “One of the roles that to make it a more comfort-the library has always had is able, inclusive space where to be an intellectual environ-people can spend hours at a ment. It’s also been a place time. where people came to meet 
“The architects have said … it’s convenient and it’s a [the library is] like a super-central point for undergradu­market, like a warehouse … ates.” now when you come in One of the most difficult there’s horrible fluorescent challenges those on the com-light. You turn the wrong cor-mittee face, Shorey said, is ner and you have no idea creating a social and academ­where you are. Very little on ic space that embodies the [the first] two floors is actual-traditional ideals of a library ly structural,” Shorey said. but also looks towards the 
Study body vice president future. Cynthia Weber is an under-“Yes, this is a library. Yes, it graduate representative on has traditions, but it’s also a the Campus Committee, place that has to be accom­which leads the planning of modating for the now — [the the library renovation. Weber challenge is] how you blend communicates the needs and that,” she said. concerns of the student body to the committee. Contact Sara Felsenstein at 
“In the actual committee sfelsens@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 15, 2010 
ACE 
continued from page 1 
ber of the task force. “One way of addressing inequality in this coun­try is by strengthening Catholic schools.” 
According to the report, Latinos in Catholic schools are 42 percent more likely to graduate high school and are 2.5 times more likely to graduate college. The task force has also found 
that nearly 70 

“Notre Dame’s mission 
percent of all some Latino practi cing is about helping the touches that are Catholics under specific to the dif­
community and making
the age of 35 are ferent groups 
everybody’s life better.” 
Latinos, but only that are attend­3 percent of ing the school. Latinos send Juan Carlos Guzman “These actions their children to may seem small 
director of research 
Catholic schools. but they can 
Institute for Latino Studies
The campaign officials believe more Latinos are not enrolled in Catholic education because schools currently aren’t meeting the needs of the Latino community. 
“Our Catholic schools right now are not what you would call cultur­ally responsive,” Fr. Joseph Corpora, the director of the cam­paign said. “The schools just aren’t prepared for these Latino students because the educational model doesn’t work for the Latinos.” 
Juan Carlos Guzman, the direc­tor of research for the Institute for Latino Studies and a member of the task force said that the present schools aren’t meeting the needs of the Latino students because the structure of education in the United States is made for a homogeneous population, something that is not true with Latinos. 
“Different groups of Latinos are different from each other,” Guzman said. “What is key for increasing their access to educa-
Early 
continued from page 1 
most accomplished in University history because it is still too early to know which students will actu­ally choose to attend next fall. 
“We don’t know what the class is going to be yet,” he said. “We don’t know who’s going to say ‘yes’ yet.” 
The students admitted early had an average class rank in the top 3.3 percent, an average SAT score of 1460 (composite of the math and verbal scores) and an average ACT score of 33.1. 
“The profile of the students that we admitted from that group have the highest test scores and the strongest classroom perform­ance in terms of GPA and rank in class,” Saracino said. 
In addition, Saracino said this year’s early admits were 24 per­cent ethnic minority and had 75 international students, both of which are increases from last year. 
“We’ve seen a healthy increase in applications and we’ve also admitted the largest number of ethnic minority students and international students that we’ve ever admitted in early action,” he said. “We surely can hit our goals of increasing both domestic eth­nic diversity as well as interna­tional diversity.” 
Saracino said those admitted are not only ethnically diverse, but also demonstrate strong leadership based on their high school backgrounds. 
“This is a group of students with more ethnic and interna­tional diversity, and at the same time a group of students that were just as involved in commu­nity service and extracurriculars as before,” he said. 
Saracino said while increasing the admission rates for ethnic tion is to see what they need. The whole structure of Catholic schools in the United States have to recog­nize the importance of reaching out to Latinos; the Latinos have to feel invited.” 
Doing little things to make the schools seem more accessible and welcoming to the Latino population can extend this invitation. Such things that were suggested as baby steps included having a Spanish-speaking secretary, translating texts into Spanish and changing the décor of the school to include 
make a big dif­
ference by pro­viding a greater sense of owner­ship for the Latinos,” Scully said. “If we want to provide greater access to the Latino children then we are going to have to provide a sense of ownership of the Catholic schools.” 
Scully said they task force feels that the whole campaign is an issue of social justice and the University of Notre Dame is the most capable Catholic school in the country to carry out the campaign and succeed. 
“Notre Dame’s mission is about helping the community and mak­ing everybody’s life better,” Guzman said. “The Latino commu­nity is a group that is in great need in this area.” 
Corpora said he views the task force as a great combination between social justice and service to the Church. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 
minorities bodes well for the future, the real key to boosting diversity on campus is increasing the yield, or the number of ethni­cally diverse student who commit to Notre Dame. 
“The key is increasing the yield on ethnic and minority students,” he said. “We want to increase the number of admits and the per­centage of students that say ‘yes’ to us.” 
One of the most important fac­tors for minority students, Saracino said, is financial aid, which much of the incoming class will require. 
“With the adequate financial aid, we’ll be able to increase the overall enrollment number,” he said. “Given the economy, the likelihood is that we will have another class where half of the students will need financial aid.” 
Nonetheless, Saracino said the University will continue to be need-blind in admissions and meet the needs of all those admitted. 
“We expect that the incoming class will be as financially needy as previous classes, so it is important for the University to continue to be need blind and meet 100 percent of the need, which we are,” he said. 
Saracino said he expects the test scores of the regular action applicants to be lower, but he does expect them to be equally strong in areas of leadership and involvement. 
“If in fact this year plays out as previous years have, you’ll find that the profile of the regular action students will be not quite as high in terms of GPA and test scores but will be equally impressive in terms of communi­ty service, leadership in their high schools and athletics,” he said. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
Over-exercising remains a concern 
ND officials identify extreme working out as issue of control, competition 
By KATIE PERALTA 
Assistant News Editor 
As students return to cam­pus filled with ambitious New Year’s resolutions and goals for getting fit for Spring Break, Notre Dame recreation facilities see an influx of students and faculty eager to work out, especially in light of the recent regis­tration for fitness classes. 
Some, however, take their exercise to the extreme. 
Over-exercising, also called compulsive exercising, is when an individual engages in strenuous physical activity to a point that is no longer safe nor healthy, according to the University of Pennsylvania’s Office of Health Education Web site. 
Jennifer Phillips, assistant director of RecSports, said posters warning about the dangers of over-exercising were recently submitted by a group of design students for exhibition in Rolf’s Sports Recreation Center. 
“The posters were not necessarily in response to anything in particular,” Phillips said, but added that compulsive exercising never­theless is a problem on cam­pus. 
“It’s hard to quantify,” she said. “But you can tell it exists by casual observation. People need to know that there are resources available [on campus.] 
“When there is cause for concern about an individual in one of our programs or facilities, we seek the expert­ise of specialists on campus to provide guidance.” 
Such resources are provid-While over-exercising is ed by the University not itself identified as an Counseling Center (UCC) in eating disorder, Staples said, St. Liam’s Hall. it often comes hand-in-hand 
“[Over-exercising] is a with disorders like anorexia much bigger problem than and bulimia. we are aware of here, ” In the 2007-08 academic Valerie Staples, a counselor year, 12 percent of student and eating disorder special-cases at the UCC were identi­ist at the UCC said. “At any fied as eating concerns, time of day, you can look Staples said. This number 
around and  f e l l  t o  1 0 . 6  
s e e s o m e -one running o n c a m - “When people start plan­ning their lives around  percent t he f o l l o w i n g a c a d e m i c  
pus.” S t a p l e s said identi­ exercise, ... it becomes a problem.”  year. T h k i n d s  e  s e o f  
f y i n g  c o m - b o d y i m a g e  
p u l s i v e e x e r c i s i n g a s a p r o b - Valerie Staples counselor University Counseling Center  i s s u e s , s h e s a i d , o f t e n a r i s e a t  

lem is diffi­cult. 
“Exercise is such an asset in our culture,” Staples said. “It’s really hard to see it as a bad thing. When people start planning their lives around exercise, however, it becomes a problem.” 
Compulsive exercising, Staples said, for many can be a control issue as well that aligns with the high achiev­ing mentality commonplace at an institution like Notre Dame. 
“[People think] ‘you can always do more,’” she said, and added that the differ­ence between stress manage­ment and maintenance of a healthy lifestyle ought to be examined critically with the issue of compulsive exercise. 
Staples identified Notre Dame as an institution ram­pant in competition in areas from academics to appear­ance, further fostering envi­ronments of extremism. 
points of 
stressful transition in a person’s life, often between the ages of 17-25 and also during mid­dle age years. 
Staples said is not uncom­mon for universities to limit the amount of time or the frequency with which stu­dents utilize fitness facilities, but Notre Dame, Phillips said, has no such limitations in place. 
“We do not have any poli­cies limiting the frequency of use by an individual,” Phillips said, although Rolf’s and the Rockne Memorial both have time limitations on certain exercise machines. 
Students who have con ­cerns about compulsive exer­cising are encouraged to contact the UCC by visiting their St. Liam’s Hall office or by calling 631-7336. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 


World & Nation 
Friday, January 15, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Beijing hosts Mr. Gay China pageant 
BEIJING — The Mr. Gay China pageant is coming up and contestant David Wu is a bit worried. 
It’s not the underwear competition that’s making him jittery — he’s been working out harder than usual to get ready. And he’s look­ing forward to the opportunity to meet other “comrades,” as gay men in China are called. 
Just one thing troubles the handsome 30­year-old: His parents don’t know he’s gay. 
“Most Chinese media won’t cover it (the pageant), so I think it’s unlikely that my par­ents will find out about me because of this event,” said Wu, from the southwestern city of Chengdu. “On the other hand, if they did ... maybe it’s a good opportunity to tell them.” 
Italy funds Somalian government 
NAIROBI, Kenya — Italy will fund the opera­tions of key ministries of the fragile Somali gov­ernment battling a long-running Islamic insur­gency, the Italian foreign minister said on Thursday. 
Italy, a former colonial ruler of Somalia, also will train an anti-terrorism police unit and a coast guard, and pay the salaries of police offi­cers, Italian Foreign Minister Franco Frattini told journalists, announcing what represents a major boost for Somali President Sheik Sharif Sheik Ahmed’s government. 
Italy is doing this because Ahmed’s govern­ment “is the best option. We have no alternative but to support this government,” Frattini said after daylong meetings in Nairobi with Ahmed and Kenyan leaders that centered on Somalia. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Cocaine found in NASA hangar 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. — NASA is investi­gating how a bag of cocaine got into the hangar that houses space shuttle Discovery at the Kennedy Space Center in Florida. 
NASA spokesman Allard Beutel said Thursday that the bag contained a tiny amount of the illegal substance. It was found by a worker in a secure part of the hangar that is accessible by about 200 NASA employees and contractors. 
NASA is drug testing and interviewing workers, as well as using drug-sniffing dogs. 
Beutel says there is no problem with any of Discovery’s hardware, nor is there any indi­cation that any employees were under the influence while working in the facility. 
Discovery is being prepared for a mission in March. 
Man freed after 23 years in prison 
CHICAGO — A man who contends Chicago police tortured him into confessing to a mur­der he did not commit walked out of a court­room a free man Thursday after more than 23 years behind bars. 
Assistant Special State’s Attorney Andrew Levine said prosecutors agreed to drop the charges against Michael Tillman after con­cluding that without the coerced confession there was not enough evidence to convict him. 
“I’m just glad justice finally prevailed,” said 43-year-old Tillman who was convicted of tak­ing part in the 1986 rape and murder of Betty Howard who lived in a building where he had worked as a handyman. The Chicago woman’s attackers tied her to a radiator in her apartment building, sexually assaulted her then shot her to death. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Airline moves to Indianapolis 
MINNEAPOLIS — Republic Airways Holdings Inc., which bought Frontier Airlines and Midwest Airlines last year, says it will move all of its executives to its base in Indianapolis as it further consolidates its two new airlines. 
When they were independent carriers, Frontier was based in Denver and Midwest was based in Milwaukee. 
Republic spokesman Carlos Bertolini said roughly 3,000 workers will continue to be based in Denver, mostly flight crews and reservations workers. About 1,200 work in Indianapolis and roughly 1,500 will work in Milwaukee, once all the transitions are done, he said. 
HAITI 
Desperate Haitians find relief 
Aid starts to arrive to area destroyed by Tuesday’s 7.0-magnitude earthquake 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE — Desperately needed aid from around the world slowly made its way Thursday into Haiti, where supply bottlenecks and a leadership vacuum left res­cuers scrambling on their own to save the trapped and injured and get relief supplies into the capital. 
The international Red Cross estimated that 45,000 to 50,000 people were killed in Tuesday’s magnitude-7.0 earthquake. 
President Barack Obama announced that “one of the largest relief efforts in our recent history” is moving toward Haiti, with thou­sands of troops and a broad array of civilian rescue workers flying or sailing in to aid the stricken country 
— backed by more than $100 million in relief funds. 
To the Haitians, Obama promised: “You will not be forsaken.” 
The nascent flow of res­cue workers showed some results: A newly arrived search team pulled U.N. security worker Tarmo Joveer alive from the orga­nization’s collapsed head­quarters, where about 100 people are still trapped. He stood, held up a fist in cele­bration, and was helped to badly injured victims await-Thursday because there In Geneva, Red Cross a hospital. ed a doctor from the neigh-was no room on the ground spokesman Jean-Luc 
There are easily hun-boring hospital. for more planes and not Martinage said the Haitian dreds, and perhaps thou-Planes from China, enough jet fuel for planes to Red Cross estimated 45,000 sands, of people trapped, France, Spain and the go back, an official at the to 50,000 people were living or dead, in collapsed United States landed at FAA said, speaking on con-killed, based on reports buildings. No one knows for Port-au-Prince’s airport, dition of anonymity because from its volunteers in Port-certain. Friends and rela-carrying searchers and tons he was not authorized to au-Prince. tives have had to claw at of water, food, medicine and talk publicly. Civilian relief There seemed to be little the wreckage, often with other supplies — with more flights were later allowed to official Haitian presence in bare hands, to try to free promised the Western resume. much of the capital — or at them. Hemisphere’s poorest It took six hours to unload the airport, where the U.S. 
Many dead bodies that nation. The Red Cross has a Chinese plane due to a Southern Command was were recovered still lay in estimated 3 million people lack of equipment — a hint controlling flights from a the street, often covered by — a third of the population of possible bottlenecks fenced-off building at the a white cloth, in 81-degree — may need emergency ahead. end of the runway. The heat. relief. “We don’t have enough facility’s usual tower had 
Some people dragged the The flow into the capital’s handling equipment or the collapsed. dust-covered dead along the damaged airport was so people to run it,” said U.S. McMullin said about 60 roads toward the morgue, great that the Federal Air Force Col. Ben planes carrying 2,000 peo­where people came to hunt Aviation Administration McMullin, part of the team ple had landed between for relatives in a macabre halted all civilian flights handling traffic at the air-Wednesday, when the air-sea of hundreds of bodies from the United States to port. “We’re trying to con-port reopened, and noon just a few feet from where Port-au-Prince for a time trol the flow of aircraft.” Thursday. 

IRAQ 
Prime Minister warns against intimidation 
Associated Press 
BAGHDAD — Iraq’s former prime minister said Thursday that a rec­ommendation to bar some political parties from March elections because of suspected ties to Saddam Hussein’s outlawed Baath party amounts to intimidation. 
Ayad Allawi, who served as Iraq’s first postwar prime minister from mid-2004 to April 2005, said in an interview with The Associated Press that the de-Baathification process designed to root out sup­porters of Saddam’s ousted regime is being used for political gain in the run-up to the March 7 parlia­mentary election. 
“This is a process of severe intimidation and threats,” Allawi said. “It’s clear that they want to get rid of their opponents.” 
A parliamentary committee tasked with vetting political candi­dates for ties to the former Baath party regime recommended last week to Iraq’s electoral commis­sion that 14 political parties and one individual be barred from the vote because of alleged Baathist ties. 
Among those named was promi­nent Sunni leader Saleh al-Mutlaq, a political ally of Allawi’s in the Iraqi National Movement, a coali­tion challenging Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki in the vote. 
The recommendation to bar the parties — most of which are Sunni 
— potentially threatens the coun­try’s fragile security because it risks leaving Sunni voters feeling targeted and disenfranchised. 
The de-Baathification policy was created under the U.S. -run Coalition Provisional Authority, which ran the country after the 2003 invasion and stripped senior Baathists of their jobs. In 2008, the policy was relaxed and thousands of former Baathists who were not involved in past crimes were allowed to take government jobs. 

page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 15, 2010 
Haiti 
continued from page 1 
the director of the orphan­age. FOTO supports and runs several hospitals and clinics in the slums of Haiti. 
“Just thinking about the poverty I saw there when it was ‘normal,’ I can’t even fathom the problems now with all the destruction,” Daly said. 
FOTO is working with the fundraising efforts of stu­dent government and is hop­ing to hold a benefit concert featuring campus groups such as The Undertones and the student contemporary brass band M.O.B.B. 
“We’re trying to raise as much money as possible for these people, ” he said. “When I was there, there were no resources. Now they have no way of getting those resources shipped in. There’s going to be no way to get necessities of life to these people.” 
Daly said gang violence, poor health care and large-scale unemployment plagued the country when he shad­owed Frechette this summer. Now, those problems are magnified. 
“It’s going to be hell,” he said. 
When Daly worked in the Haitian hospitals, he said the resources were scarce and people could not afford basic health care. 
“There was a woman dying 
of breast cancer, and the cancer was eating away at her chest so you could see inside her chest,” he said. “But there was nothing they could do but put a bandage on it.” 
Clean water is generally unavailable, but Daly said a water truck would drive through the streets daily playing a song similar to that of an ice cream truck. 
“Naked children would lit­erally run out into the streets to try to get clean water,” he said. 
Daly said he is hoping to schedule the benefit concert to raise money for the relief effort in the next two weeks. 
The University released a statement Wednesday assur­ing the Notre Dame commu­nity that faculty members who are working with the Notre Dame Haiti Program in the country are all safe. 
Faculty member Sarah Craig, program manager, Logan Anderson, assistant program manager, MarieDenise Milord, a post­doctoral student and Fr. Thomas Streit, the program director, were in Haiti at the time. 
A Notre Dame student par­ticipating in a service pro­gram in Haiti is also safe, the release said. 
The University’s program in Haiti focuses on research and elimination of lymphatic filariasis, also known as Elephantiasis, a disease that afflicts more than 26 percent of the Haitian population. 
The program is based in in Léogâne, about 30 kilome­ters west of the Port -au ­Prince, and there is no infor­mation yet about the damage to the facilities. 
The University is organiz­ing a Mass and a relief fund. The details have not yet been released. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
chasing miracles. “For us, chasing miracles 
Crowley 
has a double meaning, ” Crowley said. “Yeah, it ’s 
continued from page 1 
about chasing the miracle we take it so much for and the cure and the treat-responds. 
The Crowleys’ lessons in strength, hope and joy came mostly from their three children. 
“We’ve learned more from 
granted,” she said. ments to 
Crowley talked about extend and valuing life in his remarks, enhance peo­sharing vignettes from his ple ’s lives, soon-to-be-released mem-but it’s more 
oir titled “Chasing than that, Miracles: The Crowley and this took Family Journey of Strength, a while for Hope and Joy,” that he co-us, it took authored with Aileen. while for me, 
“Ours is not a sad and to realize that the kids are heavy life,” Crowley said, a miracle, that life is a mir­noting the film captures the acle.” spirit of the family “incred-He said he hopes the ibly well.” audience takes away from 
He said if there was any-the film that life is not thing the family learned about what happens but from the film, it was about how one lives and how one 
“Ours is not a sad and heavy life.” 
John Crowley ‘92 ND Law Alum 
them than we ’ve ever taught them, ” Crowley said. 
The three vignettes reflected those themes and described the c h i l d r e n ’s 
ND to sponsor events honoring MLK 
Special to the Observer 
Martin Luther King Jr. Day will officially be 
observed 
nationwide Monday, and Notre Dame will present a number of events to mark the occa ­sion. 

An ecumenical prayer service will be held Monday at 4 p.m. in the rotunda of the University’s Main Building. University President Fr. John Jenkins and Rev. Hugh R. Page, dean of the First Year of Studies and associate pro­fessor of theology and Africana studies, will 

offer 
prayers in memory of Dr. King. The Voices of Faith Gospel Choir will provide sacred music for the event, and a reception will follow. 


The Martin Luther King Jr. Series, sponsored by Notre Dame ’s Office of Multicultural Student Programs and Services (MSPS), also will honor the memory of the nation ’s foremost civil rights leader with two events. 

A weekend workshop for Notre Dame students, fac­ulty and staff on “Crossroads Anti -Racism Organizing and Training” will be held today from 6 to 9 p.m., Saturday from 
8:30 a.m. to 6 p.m. and Sunday from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the Oak Room of South Dining Hall. 
“While the workshop involves a serious time commitment, it provides a great opportunity for understanding and analy­sis of institutionalized racisms in America, and to provide professional resilience and determina­tion and how the battle against rare and untreat­able disease is bigger than any one person. 
The largest section in the book, however, is about joy, Crowley said. 
strategies for eliminating them, ” Tobias Blake, assistant director of MSPS, said . Blake said MSPS will waive the work­shop registration fee for students, faculty and staff who wished to attend. 
Interested participants may sign up by contacting Blake at 574-631-8503 or tblake@nd.edu. 
Tim Wise, activist and 
“We learn to live life every day,” he said, and the family has come to value spending time with each other and not feeling sorry for themselves. 
Both speakers addressed the devastation in Haiti fol­lowing this week’s earth ­quake, and Haldar asked for a moment of reflection and prayer for the country and for the Notre Dame Haiti program in its battle with disease there. 
The two Thursday evening screenings of “Extraordinary Measures” at the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center were sold out. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
author of four books on racism, including, most recently, “Between Barack and a Hard Place: Racism and White Denial in the Age of Obama,” will give a 
lecture  Jan.  26  (Tuesday)  
at  7:30  p.m.  in  the  Carey  
A u d i t o r i u m  o f  t h e  

Hesburgh Library. Wise’s lecture, which will draw 
on his book, is free and open to the public. 

The Observer 
Business

Friday, January 15, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

World’s cheapest car comes to U.S. 
DETROIT — The world’s cheapest car is being readied for sale in the U.S., but by the time India’s Tata Nano is retrofitted to meet emis­sions and safety standards, it won’t be that cheap. 
Tata Technologies Ltd., the global engineering arm of the Tata group conglomerate, brought the tiny car to Detroit as a publicity stunt for the engineering group. 
Tata officials, while maintaining that they couldn’t speak for Tata Motors, maker of the $2,500 Nano, said they were involved with the Nano from concept until it launched last July in Mumbai. 
They wouldn’t say when the Nano might arrive in the U.S. or how much it might cost here, although Ratan Tata, chairman of the group of Tata companies, has said it should be ready for U.S. distribution in about three years. 
Tata Motors already has made a European version of the four-seat car that will cost about $8,000 when it debuts in 2011, and a Tata Technologies official said privately that the U.S. version is expected to have a comparable price. The official did not want to be identified because the price has not been made public. 
Warren Harris, Tata Technologies president, would only say that the price would be more than the roughly $2,500 charged in India. 
Wisconson plans to clean up Chrysler 
MADISON, Wis. — Wisconsin lawmakers have approved plans to clean up pollution at the site of the Chrysler engine plant in Kenosha. 
Supporters said the plan could help transform the 100-acre site of the plant that is closing into a viable location for future economic develop­ment. 
The plan calls for cleaning up a dozen areas on the site contaminated by leaking under­ground tanks that stored petroleum and other chemicals. 
The Legislature’s budget committee on Thursday voted 11-3 to authorize the Department of Natural Resources to work with the city of Kenosha to begin the cleanup. The plan relies on $1 million in federal stimulus funds. 
Opponents said the state should first try to get the money for cleanup from Chrysler during its bankruptcy proceedings. 
Google threatens to leave China 
Co-founders of popular search engine break ties with China in defense of free speech 
Associated Press  
SAN FRANCISCO —  
Google Inc. co-founders  
Sergey Brin and Larry Page  
have always said they put  
their principles before prof­ 
it, even to the point of using  
their control of the company  
to take a stand.  
The billionaires’ idealism  
underlies a potentially  
expensive decision disclosed  
this week: Google’s threat to  
leave China’s rapidly grow­ 
ing Internet market in  
defense of free speech and  
its users’ privacy rights.  
It’s a bold move unlikely to  
be made without the explicit  
support of Page and Brin,  
given the possible fallout.  
Departing the world’s most  
populous country could slow  
Google’s earnings growth  
and weigh on its stock.  
Although Google has thou­ 
sands of shareholders, it has  
two classes of stock, giving  
Page and Brin veto power  
over everyone else, includ­ 
ing the company’s chief  
executive, Eric Schmidt.  
Combined, Page and Brin  
hold 58 percent of the vot­ 
ing power among share­ 
holders while Schmidt has  
less than 10 percent,  
according to the company’s AP  
disclosures. Google co-founders Sergey Brin, left, and Larry Page, shown in September 2008 at Google  
Google said this week’s Inc. headquarters in California, have always said they put their principles before profit.  
China bombshell was the  
result of an “incredibly  Chinese version of its search  Brin, though, has never  family and other Russian  
hard” decision, but the com- engine, at Google.cn, to be  been completely comfort- Jews have helped shape his  
pany declined to elaborate  in a better position to profit  able with Google playing by  thinking on political and  
on the internal debate.  from China’s booming econ- the Chinese government’s  social issues.  
Google declined requests to  omy. To gain the toehold,  rules.  Page, born in Michigan,  
interview Page, Brin and  Google complied with the  In each of the last two  voted against the sharehold- 
Schmidt.  Chinese government’s  years, Brin abstained from  er proposals that tried to get  
Page and Brin, both 36,  demands for censorship of  voting on shareholder pro- Google to change its ways in  
pledged to strive to do the  Internet search results  posals demanding that  China.  
right thing in a manifesto  about political dissent and  Google defy China’s censor- But those votes occurred  
that they distributed just a  other hot-button issues.  ship policies. The symbolic  before Google became a tar- 
few months before Google  Human rights groups and  act was designed to show he  get of computer attacks  
took its stock public in 2004.  even some Google share- shared some of the concerns  originating in China.  
“Don’t be evil,” they  holders have been urging  outlined in the measures,  In a blog posting about the  
wrote, evoking the phrase  Google to pull out of China  according to Brin.  assault, Google said hackers  
that has become Google’s  for the past four years, only  Some of Brin’s misgivings  broke into the e-mail  
motto. “We believe strongly  to have Schmidt diplomati­ can be traced to family’s  accounts of human rights  
that in the long term, we  cally reject the idea. He has  own experience under  activists who challenge  
will be better served — as  maintained that Google  Communism. He was born  China. The chicanery led  
shareholders and in all  needs to be in China to pro- in Moscow in 1973. He and  Google to conclude “we are  
other ways — by a company  tect its franchise as Chinese  his family fled the Soviet  no longer willing to continue  
that does good things for the  becomes the Internet’s pre- Union when he was 6 years  censoring our results on  
world.”  dominant language — a  old, but he has said the  Google.cn.” That act of defi- 
Critics contended Brin and  transition that Schmidt  oppressive policies of the  ance might be the first step  
Page broke that promise in  thinks could occur within  government and the anti- toward leaving the country  
2006 when Google created a  five years.  Semitism directed at his  completely.  

Gay marriage ban costs San Francisco 
has a negative material impact on the seen higher mental health costs 
Associated Press 
city of San Francisco,” he said. “These because of discrimination against gays 
are impacts that are hard to quantify, and now spends $2.5 million a year on 
SAN FRANCISCO — A state ban on but over the long term they can be specialized services for them. gay marriage is costing the city of San powerful.” “I believe that the prohibition of Francisco millions of dollars a year in Egan testified during the fourth day marriage of same-sex couples is a lost revenue and increased services, of a federal trial on a lawsuit challeng-form of discrimination, and it’s reason-an economist testified Thursday in a ing Proposition 8, the ballot measure able to assume that if that prohibition lawsuit aimed at overturning the pro-approved by statewide voters in 2008. were removed there would be over hibition. The city was allowed to join the suit time a lessening of the discrimination 
Chief city economist Edmund Egan to demonstrate that governments bear those individuals see in their daily said married people accumulate more some of the costs of the ban. lives,” he said. wealth and have more to spend on Peter Patterson, a lawyer for Egan acknowledged he could not property and consumer goods, which Proposition 8 sponsors, challenged quantify many of the potential revenue bolsters tax revenue. Egan’s methodology and had him and savings benefits San Francisco 
He also said the city must spend acknowledge during cross-examina-would realize if same-sex couples more on health care for uninsured tion that he based many of his esti-could marry. The most solid estimate workers because same-sex couples mates on assumptions drawn from the he cited was $2.6 million the city was are not always covered under their spending habits of opposite-sex cou-losing in hotel and sales tax revenue partner’s employee health care plans. ples. every year from weddings that can’t 
“It’s clear to me that Proposition 8 Egan also said San Francisco has take place. 

page 8 The Observer  NEWS Friday, January 15, 2010 
U.S., U.N. officials hope for agreement 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS — The nonbinding Copenhagen Accord is at a critical moment that will decide whether it becomes a mandatory treaty for cutting greenhouse gases, the top U.S. climate official said Thursday. 
It will only happen, Todd Stern told a gathering of Wall Street leaders and investors, if the “major players” provide the United Nations by the end of January with their promised plans for reducing carbon emis­sions by 2020. 
“We have an accord that’s kind of lumbering down the runway, and we need it to get enough speed so it can take off,” Stern said. “The best way to make progress toward a legal agreement is to get the 
Copenhagen  Accord imple - 
mented.”  
Stern,  the  U.S.  State  

Department’s special envoy for climate change, struck a hope­ful note about the uncertain outcome of the U.N. climate conference in the Danish capi­tal in December, in his first public remarks since returning from Copenhagen. 
The Copenhagen agreement fell short on specific steps to cool the planet, but urged deep­er cuts in emissions of carbon dioxide and other gases blamed for warming the globe. It also set up the first significant pro­gram of climate aid to poorer nations and adopted a goal of holding the rise in global tem­peratures below 2 degrees Celsius. A $30 billion fund over the next three years, scaling up to $100 billion a year by 2020, was a key element. 
But a U.N. draft document showed emissions cuts pledged at U.N. climate talks would put the world on “an unsustainable pathway” toward average glob­al warming 50 percent higher than industrial countries want. The document forecast the average global temperature would rise in coming decades by 3 degrees Celsius compared to pre-industrial levels. The world has already warmed a bit, so that would mean an additional 2.3 degrees Celsius warming from the present day. 
The last-minute deal emerged principally from President Barack Obama’s meeting with Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao and the leaders of India, Brazil and South Africa. Afterward, it was put to the entire 193­nation meeting for adoption, but the accord was merely “noted” in the end by most of the world’s nations. 
“We now need to have coun­tries step forward and say, ‘I want to be part of it,’ “ Stern told the high-profile business crowd, which collectively con­trols some $13 trillion in assets. “The best way to make progress toward an ultimate legal agreement is to get this Copenhagen Accord imple­mented.” 
The focus of the U.N. gather­ing Thursday was on using investors’ financial assets to encourage the use of cleaner energy sources and fuels. 
Stern said no one should underestimate the importance of what he called “a breach in the firewall between developed and developing countries. What happened here was that, for the first time, major developing countries ... have agreed to list the specific actions that they’re going to take to mitigate, to reduce their emissions.” 
Robert Orr, a U.N. assistant secretary-general for policy, said many investors asked him at a dinner Wednesday night about the jumbled result of an exhausting negotiating marathon to end the Copenhagen conference. 
PAKISTAN 

Taliban chief believed alive after U.S. strike 
Associated Press 
ISLAMABAD — The leader of the Pakistani Taliban was apparently targeted in a U.S. missile strike on a meeting of militant commanders close to the Afghan border Thursday, but he escaped unhurt, Pakistani officials and militants said. Twelve insurgents were believed killed. 
The death of Hakimullah Mehsud would be a major vic­tory for both for Washington and Islamabad in their fight against Islamist militants. Mehsud appeared on a video released last week sitting next to the Jordanian militant who killed seven CIA employees in a suicide attack in December in Afghanistan. 
Mehsud’s Tehrik-e-Taliban movement, which is linked to al-Qaida and the Taliban across the border in Afghanistan, has also claimed responsibility for scores of bloody suicide bombings in Pakistan in recent months against military, civilian and government targets. 
The U.S. missile strike was the eighth such attack in two weeks in Pakistan’s North Waziristan tribal region, an unprecedented volley of drone attacks since the CIA-led pro­gram began in earnest two years ago. The surge signals the Obama administration’s reliance on the tactic despite official protest from Islamabad. 
One or more unmanned U.S spy planes fired at least two missiles into a large complex that had been used as a reli­gious school in the past in the Pasalkot area close to the bor­der with South Waziristan soon after dawn broke, Pakistani intelligence officials said. 
The dead militants included two foreigners, while at least eight others were wounded, said the officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because they are not author­ized to speak to the media on the record. 
Scientists warned Haiti in 2008 

Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Scientists who detected worrisome signs of growing stresses in the fault that unleashed this week’s dev­astating earthquake in Haiti said Thursday they warned offi­cials there two years ago that their country was ripe for a major earthquake. 
Their sobering findings, pre­sented during a geological con­ference in March 2008 and at meetings two months later, showed that the fault was capa­ble of causing a 7.2-magnitude earthquake — slightly stronger than Tuesday’s 7.0 quake that rocked the impoverished coun­try. 
Though Haitian officials lis­tened intently to the research, the nearly two years between the presentation and the devas­tating quake was not enough time for Haiti to have done much to have prevented the massive destruction. 
“It’s too short of a timeframe to really do something, particu­larly for a country like Haiti, but even in a developed country it’s very difficult to start very big operations in two years,” said Eric Calais, a professor of geophysics at Purdue University. 
Their conclusions also lacked a specific timeframe that could have prodded quick action to shore up the hospitals, schools and other buildings that col­lapsed and crumbled Tuesday, said Paul Mann, a senior research scientist at the University of Texas’ Institute for Geophysics. 
At the time of the earth­quake, which the international Red Cross estimates killed 45,000 to 50,000 people, Haiti was still trying to recover from a string catastrophes. In 2008 alone, it was hit four times by tropical storms and hurricanes. The country also suffers from a string of social ills including poverty, unstable governments and poor building standards that make buildings vulnerable in earthquakes. 
“Haiti’s government has so many other problems that when you give sort of an unspe­cific prediction about an earth­quake threat they just don’t have the resources to deal with that sort of thing,” Mann said. 
In March 2008, Calais and Mann were among a group of scientists who presented find­ings on the major quake risk along the Enriquillo fault dur­ing the conference in the Dominican Republic, which shares the island of Hispaniola with Haiti. Their conclusions were based both on geologic work Mann conducted along the same fault and recent find­ings by Calais. 
Calais had detected rising stresses along the fault using global positioning system meas­urements that showed that the Earth’s crust in the area where the fault traverses southern Haiti was slowly deforming as pressure grew within the fault. 
That pressure, paired with Mann’s work and the fact that the last major quake in the area was in 1770, led to the prediction that the fault could produce a 7.2-magnitude tem­blor. 
Calais said he also presented the findings to officials in Haiti during a series of meetings in May 2008 that included the country’s prime minister and other high-ranking officials. He said he stressed to the officials that if they did nothing else they should at least begin rein­forcing hospitals, schools and key government buildings to weather a strong quake. 
“We were taken very serious­ly but unfortunately it didn’t translate into action,” he said. “The reality is that it was too short of a timeframe to really do something, particularly for a country like Haiti struggling with so many problems.” 
Calais said Haiti has no seis­mic stations for monitoring quake activity, while adjoining Dominican Republic has a small seismic network. 
Although the specific risks of the fault zone near Haiti’s capi­tal, Port-au-Prince, may not have been known until recent years, the region has a long his­tory of major earthquakes, said Carol Prentice, a U.S. Geological Survey research geologist based in Menlo Park, Calif. 
Those include earthquakes that destroyed Jamaica’s capi­tal, Kingston, in 1692 and 1907, that also occurred along the Enriquillo fault, which extends hundreds of miles through the Dominican Republic, Haiti and Jamaica. 
She said Calais’ GPS studies were the first along the fault to quantify the potential quake risk in the heavily populated Port-au-Prince area. 
Prentice said she, Calais and Mann had sought U.S. govern­ment funding over the years for detailed excavations in south­ern Haiti to document evidence of past quakes in soil layers along the fault but that work has not yet been funded. 


Friday, January 15, 2010 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Ariz. may close state parks 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX — Arizona is on the verge of permanently closing more than half of its state parks to ease its budget woes — the most drastic such proposal in the nation and one that could mean shutting down some iconic Old West locations. 
The plan would close the Tombstone Courthouse and the Yuma Territorial Prison, and shut down parks that draw tens of thousands of tourists a year such as Red Rock State Park in Sedona. 
“We don’t have a choice. It’s either shut them all down right now or shut them down in phas­es, and we’re picking the ones that cost the state money,” said Reese Woodling, head of the Arizona Parks Board, which plans on Friday to take up a staff recommendation to close 13 parks by June 3. State officials closed five parks last year. 
If the additional closures are approved, two-thirds of the state parks in Arizona will be shut down. 
Arizona is not the only place where lawmakers are targeting parks, but it is taking the most aggressive action, said Phil McNelly, executive director of the National Association of State Parks Directors. 
California Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger last year pro­posed closing 220 of California’s 279 parks in the face of a multi­billion-dollar deficit. But the gov­ernor backed off four months later after protests from park activists. 


Schwarzenegger returned to the issue this month by proposing to expand oil drilling off the Santa Barbara coast to provide $140 million for state parks. 
Officials in Louisiana, Iowa and Idaho have said they may close all or parts of state parks in response to budget problems. Other states have transferred parks to local control. 
Idaho Gov. C.L. “Butch” Otter hopes to disband the state parks agency, saving $10 million by selling the headquarters building and moving management of 30 state parks to other agencies. Opponents have raised potential legal issues, but Otter’s office hopes to find a way around them. 
In Arizona, cities are fretting about losing the tourists who vis­ited because of the state parks. Some communities are trying to find ways to run the parks them­selves, but they too have money problems. 
Arizona lawmakers cut parks and other expenses last year as they tried to fill a nearly 30 per­cent gap between revenues and spending in a $10.7 billion budg­et. The budget year that begins on July 1 has similar gaps. 
Since last July, the Legislature has cut 61 percent of the parks department’s $19.3 million budg­et, including taking revenue from entry, tour and event fees, as well as camping permits and cabin rentals. The agency now needs cash to replenish the drained account so it can continue oper­ating in the next fiscal year. 
Doing so requires closing most of the unprofitable parks, officials said. 
With that threat looming, some rural communities are digging deeper into their already tight budgets. Governments in Payson and Camp Verde contributed money to help cover operational costs at Tonto Natural Bridge and Fort Verde state parks. 
But those parks are again on the proposed closure list, and city officials have told parks adminis­trators that they want to find new ways to keep them open. 
John McReynolds hopes they’re successful. He estimates he gets about five Fort Verde visitors on an average day at Babe’s Round-Up, the restaurant he owns in nearby Camp Verde. It doesn’t sound like many, he says, but “in this economy, one person is a lot.” 
Visitors to Fort Verde spent nearly $1.7 million on food, lodg­ing and other services in the fis­cal year that ended June 30, 2007, according to a report last year by the Arizona Hospitality Research & Resource Center at Northern Arizona University. 
The report also found that parks around the state generated $163 million in direct spending. 
Other communities are finding partners to put up money and share some of the operating costs. When the Parks Board voted to close Yuma Quartermaster Depot last year, the city of Yuma worked out an agreement that moves the city’s visitors center to the park. 
Charles Flynn of the Yuma Crossing National Heritage Area hopes to make another deal that would keep open the historic prison, which housed hundreds of Old West outlaws and was por­trayed in the film “3:10 to Yuma.” 
The proposal before the Parks Board spares some of the sys­tem’s most popular and prof­itable parks, including Kartchner Caverns, Slide Rock and Lake Havasu. Parks officials hope the profitable parks can quickly replenish the raided funds and allow them to reopen other parks. 


Report: ‘choking game’ popular with rural kids 
Associated Press 
PORTLAND, Ore. — A new report suggests a large number of eighth-graders in Oregon have taken part in the “choking game,” the dangerous practice of choking each other to get a feeling of euphoria. 
As many as 2,600 eighth-graders may have risked injury, long-term disability or even death by trying the so-called “game” that also carries nick­names such as “Pass-Out,” ‘’Space Monkey,” ‘’Flatliner” and “Blackout.” 
“That’s a lot of kids,” said Dr. Mel Kohn, the state public health director. 
The results of the Oregon Public Health survey released Thursday by the national Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta were com­piled from responses from near­ly 8,000 eighth-graders at 114 schools in Oregon. 
The survey, conducted in 2008, also showed that more than a third of those eighth-graders had heard about the choking game. 
Almost 3 percent of those responding said they had helped someone, while about 6 percent said they had participated them­selves. 
The survey also indicated that teens in rural areas and those with increased mental health risk factors or involved in sub­stance abuse were more likely to take part in the risky game. 
Sarah Ramowski, lead author of the report on the survey results, said researchers were not sure what accounted for the differences between rural and urban eighth-graders but it mer­its further study. 
“At this point, all we know is that rural youths had higher rates of participation,” said Ramowski, who is an adolescent health policy specialist at the Oregon Public Health Division. 
Kohn said most of the eighth-graders likely heard about it from their peers rather than out­side sources, including television or other media. 
He also noted it was different from autoerotic asphyxiation. 
“It’s really not a sexual thing at all,” Kohn said about the teen choking game. “It’s more of a euphoria and getting high kind of goal.” 
But Kohn urged parents to watch for warning signs of the practice, including: 
u Unexplained marks on the neck. 
u Bloodshot eyes. 
u Ropes, scarves, belts tied to bedroom furniture or doorknobs. 
u Unexplained presence of leashes or bungee cords. 
u Pinpoint bleeding spots under the skin on the face, espe­cially the eyelids. 
u Discussion or mention of the activity. 
u Disorientation, especially after spending time alone. 
In 2008, the CDC identified 82 deaths occurring in 31 states from the choking game from 1995 to 2007. In Oregon, an Eagle Point sixth grader died in 2006 from it. 
Ohio pediatrician gets 13 years in abuse case 
Associated Press 
HAMILTON, Ohio — A pediatri­cian charged with sex crimes against former patients pleaded guilty Thursday to two counts of unlawful sexual conduct with a minor and was sentenced to 13 years in prison. 
Scott Blankenburg, 54, also pleaded guilty to compelling pros­titution, illegal use of a minor in a nudity-oriented material or per­formance, pandering sexually ori­ented matter involving a minor, complicity to deception to obtain a dangerous drug and two counts of bribery. 
He agreed to the 13-year term in a plea deal made with Butler County prosecutors in exchange for his pleas. The only guilty plea involving one of the doctor’s for­mer patients was one count of bribery. 
He will begin serving the sen­tence Feb. 15. He also must pay a $7,500 fine and agreed to pay a $27,500 fine levied against his twin brother in a similar case. 
The brother, Mark Blankenburg, a fellow pediatri­cian, was sentenced last week to 21 to 27 years in prison for sex crimes involving former patients, money laundering and drug charges. 
Scott Blankenburg, who lived in Hamilton with his brother, had offices in nearby Fairfield while his brother mostly practiced in Hamilton. They were indicted in March. 
Scott Blankenburg remained calm and composed throughout the hearing. His sister was in the courtroom and could be seen cry­ing as he was entering his pleas. 
He had initially been charged with 28 counts, including sex counts involving two of his patients and two of his brother’s patients. 
Assistant Prosecutor Jason Phillabaum said the community will be safer with both doctors behind bars. 
“Today concludes a two-and-a­half-year investigation and prose­cution of two doctors that preyed on innocent victims and teenage boys,” he said. 
Defense attorney Greg Howard said the plea agreement seemed the best conclusion to the case. 
“After considering the charges, we thought this was the best option,” he said. 
Authorities say the unlawful sexual conduct involved a 15­year-old boy, now in his 20s, who came forward after the original indictment. Prosecutors said Scott Blankenburg performed sex acts on the teen between 2002 and 2003 and bribed him to keep quiet. Prosecutors did not give additional details on those allega­tions. 
Additional charges, including drug crimes, occurred as recently as last year, prosecutors said. 
Mark Blankenburg still faces trial in May on pornography charges stemming from photos the brothers took of high school athletes during games. Prosecutors said some pictures, although not illegal, focused inap­propriately on certain body parts. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 10 Friday, January 15, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
The Independent, Daily Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 
The Observer apologizes for 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Katie Peralta Laura Myers Amanda Gray Meghan Veselik Carly Landon Chris Allen 
Graphics Viewpoint 
Andrea Archer Michelle Maitz 
Scene 
Adriana Pratt 
offensive comic 
The editors of The Observer would like to publicly apolo­gize for the publication of “The Mobile Party” in the Jan. 13 edition. The burden of responsibility ultimately lies on us for allowing it to go to print. 
There is no excuse that can be given and nothing that can be said to reverse the damage that has already been done by this egregious error in judgment. 
The Observer, though an independent newspaper, is rep­resentative of the community of the University of Notre Dame and the values it so cherishes: family, understand­ing, service, respect and love. 
Allowing this cruel and hateful comic a place on our able. 
We must, however move forward, and look to promote instead a culture of acceptance and support for all. 
The Office of Student Affairs and the Gender Relations Center, as well as student groups like the Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students, have worked tirelessly to foster an educated community and an environment of acceptance and love. We would ask that those currently working toward ending discourses of hate on campus continue to do so. We greatly thank you for your tireless effort. 
On our part, we must practice more responsible journal­ism and editing. That this comic was published reveals 
pages disgraced those values and severely hurt members of our Notre Dame family — our classmates, our friends. For this, we sin­cerely apologize. 
Unfortunately, the language of hate is an everyday reality in our society. Earlier this week, surprising comments made by Sen. 
Harry Reid about President Barack Obama’s accent and skin color were made public and caused uproar. Now, at Notre Dame, a comic strip including hurt­ful language was printed in this publication, also causing 
— and rightly so — serious concern. It becomes clear that hurtful language is still present among some circles, and, too often, it’s not until comments like these become public that their true hatred is acknowledged. 
The truth is, these comments should not be made at all, and we will not allow our pages to be a forum for such hatred. Publishing commentary that seems to encourage or support hate against fellow human beings is inexcus­holes in our editing practices, which are cur­rently being addressed. 

In reevaluating our policies, we hope to ensure The Observer will be able to recover from this low point in its almost 50-year history and once again be able to serve the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s community with the dignity it 
deserves. 
We would like to thank all of those who have called, e­mailed, written and visited our offices this week in out­rage. 
The content of “The Mobile Party” is in no way represen­tative of the views and opinions of The Observer or the Editorial Board. We hope that as we work together to address this serious issue, we will be able to regain your trust. 
We vow to continue to represent the University of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s College in a way that is respectful and accepting of each member of our community. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
‘The Mobile Party’ response 
We want to apologize for the offensive, distasteful and completely humorless joke that was made and acknowl­edge the grave error in its production. We cannot begin to express how apologetic we are for everyone who has been hurt by our comic and its implied message. 
We do, however, believe that something positive can come from this ugly mistake and hope that we, as mem­bers of the Notre Dame community, can take this as an opportunity to readdress the complex issues surrounding homosexuality and its treatment on our campus. Intolerance of homosexuality is a major problem on Notre Dame's campus. We tried to address it in our comics — using the tool characters to emphasize a mindset that we simply find ridiculous. In our last comic, we had the human character, our voice of reason, not understand the 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
joke because of its absurd nature. Reasons, however, are not excuses. We consistently try to write comics that rely on shock value and now that we have gone too far, we realize that we have abused the privilege and responsibil­ity of contributing to The Observer, and therefore, the Notre Dame community as a whole. This is not a joke that should have been made either in private or public. Poking fun at someone's identity in such a discriminatory manner is not funny. We wholeheartedly apologize for our comic and are aware of and truly sorry for the hurt that it has caused. 
Colin Hofman, Lauren Rosemeyer and Jay Wade 
seniors 
“The Mobile Party” 
Jan. 15 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Take everything you like seriously,except yourselves.” 
Rudyard KiplingBritish author 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Faith is taking the first step, even when you don't see the whole staircase.” 
Martin Luther King Jr. 
U.S. civil rights leader 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Friday, January 15, 2010 page 11 
How we know our university has failed 

I’m not a big fan of mission statements. They usually either just state something that everyone already knew or are so meandering and vague they couldn’t pos­sibly guide anything. But a good one can actually tell us something about 
Daniel J. Myers 
our aspirations for the outcomes of our work. In the 

Guest Columnist 
case of this uni­versity, one of the most important outputs is the character of our students — and our mission state­ment says so: 
“The University seeks to cultivate in its students not only an appreciation for the great achievements of human beings, but also a disciplined sensibility to the pover­ty, injustice, and oppression that burden the lives of so many. The aim is to create a sense of human solidarity and concern for the common good that will bear fruit as learning becomes service to justice.” 
Note especially the phrases “a disci­plined sensibility to the poverty, injustice and oppression” and “a sense of human solidarity and concern for the common good.” If students walk away from Notre Dame without these, we have failed. Those failures should both sadden us and strengthen our resolve to work toward a better outcome, especially when con­fronted blatant evidence of our failures. 
Case in point: Wednesday’s comic “The Mobile Party.” In case you missed it, the comic poses the question “What is the easiest way to turn a fruit into a veg­etable?” And answers, “A baseball bat.” The strip can be viewed on the strip’s blog as well (themobileparty.blogspot.com). Can the authors (students here at our beloved university) explain how this comic is an expression of a disciplined sensibility to injustice and oppression, or reflecting human solidarity, or concern for the common good? 
What’s worse is that the blog also posts a version that was apparently rejected The Observer in which the response isn’t “a baseball bat,” but “AIDS.” Again, soli­darity? Concern for the common good? The post also includes a gmail chat in which the Observer staffer rejects the AIDS version because they “prefer not to make light of a fatal disease.” They don’t mind, however, making light of beating another human being with a baseball bat until that person becomes a “vegetable.” 
This is no isolated incident on our cam­pus. Last year, for example, during the Bookstore Basketball tournament, there were two teams whose names referenced Chris Brown/Rihanna (“Unlike Rihanna, we get our hands up on defense” and “Chris Brown’s Greatest Hits”). It’s no surprise that these kinds of cultural ref­erences come up in team names, but it is appalling. Even worse, the organizers chose these names as members of their “Top 10 Team Names” list and presented them at the Captains meeting as if they were exemplary — ones we should think are funny, or appreciate, or, God forbid, emulate! Is this really funny: “The Los Angeles County court affidavit alleges that Mr. Brown, 19, repeatedly punched ‘Robyn F.’ [Robyn Rihanna Fenty] — in the face and arms, bit her, held her so tightly in a headlock that she almost lost consciousness and threatened to kill her...”? 
On this campus many students, faculty and staff work hard to combat violence. Getting a cheap laugh at the expense of the abused, bashed, disabled and even murdered not only belittles these horrific experiences but encourages more vio­lence. Instead, our student leaders — elected leaders, organizers of campus activities and the editors, writers and cartoonists in our main public forum — ought to also be leaders in supporting our mission. If we can’t even get these people on board with our core values, then we truly have failed. 
Daniel Myers is a professor of Sociology at the University of Notre Dame. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Saint Mary’s Straight and Gay Alliance 
To Colin Hofman, Jay Wade, Lauren Rosemeyer and Jenn Metz, Editor-in-Chief: 
I am writing on behalf of the Saint Mary’s Straight and Gay Alliance and all students standing for human dignity. Your comic strip from Jan. 13 was offensive for two very serious reasons. It encourages violence against fellow Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s family members and it shows a complete lack of knowledge or understanding of Catholic teaching on the issue of homosexuality. 
Whether or not you realize it, when you write such a comic, or in the case of the editor, allow it to be printed, you are responsible for the message it carries and what it implies. On Oct. 7, 1998, a young man outside of Laramie, Wyoming was found bloodied, tortured and beaten into a coma. The two young men who commit­ted this crime did so because Matthew Shepherd was a gay man. A few days later, he died from the injuries he sus­tained to his head from being beaten with the butt of a pistol. You may not like it but Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s is a home to lesbian, gay and bisexual students. Your call as both a Christian and as a human being is to respect them. Making light of the very real threat of homopho­bic motivated hate crimes is a poor excuse for humor and a despicable action. I completely support and defend a person’s freedom of belief, expression and speech. However, when expressing that belief takes the form of language which encourages violence against a group of people, you have crossed a pro­fessional and ethical line. As journalists, you are expected to maintain a certain level of integrity. As Christians, you are called to truth. 
This brings me to my most important point; that this comic opposes what the Catholic Church teaches surrounding the issue of homosexuality; Notre Dame is a Catholic school and therefore respects the dignity of all humans as the crown of God’s creation. According to the docu­ment from the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops in its pastoral letter Always Our Children, the Catholic Church teaches that, “Nothing in the Bible or in Catholic teaching can be used to justify prejudicial or discriminatory attitudes or behaviors ... We call on all Christians and citizens of good will to confront their own fears about homosexuality and to curb the humor and discrimination that offend homosexual persons” (emphasis my own). Further, Jesus preached a gospel of toler­ance and acceptance. Our Christian faith can be summarized in a single word-love. Regardless of your personal stance regarding homosexuality, you are called to love your gay and lesbian brothers and sisters as children of God. Calling some­thing a “comic” when it suggests beating a homosexual into a permanent vegeta­tive state with a baseball bat is a far cry from Jesus’ radical call to love. 
It may be a joke to you, but to mem­bers of the LGBTQ (lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and queer) community, it is a constant reality that there are people out there who would harm us for who and what we are. Something like this would never be allowed to be published if it was directed at a religious, ethnic, racial or cultural minority. What makes this any different? Advocating violence toward a group of people and passing it off as a joke demeans the inherent dignity of all people created in the Divine loving image of God. 
Laurel Javors 
junior LeMans Hall Saint Mary’s Gay and Straight Alliance Jan. 15 
Finding the good in finals 


Oh, syllabus week. It’s an indisputable fact that syllabus week, the first week of classes, is the best week of each semes­ter. Labs are canceled, no one really learns anything, the idea of homework is laughable and 
Andrew Ziccarelli
teachers mostly just hand out course packets Moment of Inertia explaining what you are going to do when you actually, you know, start learning. It’s such a stark contrast from the last memories I have of Notre Dame coming back from break, which were obviously from finals week. Everyone is stressed out, burned out and frustrated during finals week. People worry about their grades, their projects and wonder why they didn’t even attempt to learn during the previ­ous 14 weeks. 
I, however, have a different view of finals week. I wouldn’t go so far as to say that I like it, but I certainly don’t loathe finals week as the bane of my existence the way that seemingly every­one else does (I know, I’m weird like that). Personally, I was way more stressed out the last week of class, mostly due to the unending list of proj­ects that were due that week (ask any other junior CE major). However, even if I could coast during the last week of class, there are a number of opportuni­ties that finals week affords that makes it different from all other weeks of the semester. 
Finals week is the easiest conversation starter in the world. You can go up to any person, stranger or not and just huff, “Ugh, I hate finals” to which the other person will, no doubt, agree enthusiastically and then proceed to bombard you with their remaining schedule for the rest of the week and a countdown until they are done. Seriously, try it sometime. And, like a lot of other people, I allow myself to eat whatever makes me feel good during finals, which is typically a steady diet of Chipotle, Recker’s pizza and care pack­age chocolate. 
When it comes to wardrobe, the entire world of style comes to a screeching halt. Nobody judges what you wear. If it were up to me, I would love to walk around in sweatpants or flannel pants, a t-shirt and moccasins every single day. Normally, though, I make an attempt to look presentable, at the very least, sometimes even classy. But finals week is not one of those times. I walk all over campus looking like I just rolled out of bed and nobody so much as even looks twice and that’s because they don’t look any different. Finals week is the most comfortable week of the year, if nothing else. 
More than anything, though, finals week provides me and every single other college student in America the opportunity to find new and creative ways to procrastinate. With the rise of Internet video sharing, it is possible to watch essentially any television show that you want, whenever you want. And when I want to watch TV the most is when I should be studying. The worst part of this year was that I actually ran out of episodes of “How I Met Your Mother” to watch to distract myself from doing actual work. Between fall break and finals week, I somehow man­aged to watch almost 100 episodes, a fact of which I am not sure whether to be proud or disgusted (maybe a little of both). 
And while TV is great, the best way to procrastinate is to Sporcle. Constantly. What’s Sporcle? Simply put, it is the best Website on the internet and cer­tainly the most addicting. Sporcle is sim­ply a collection of quizzes, set to a timer. Each quiz is a list of blanks and a clue is given to the player to fill in each item on the list, which all follow a common theme, before time runs out. It is an incredibly simple idea that has unlimit­ed potential for creativity and entertain­ment. Some of them have to do with tel­evision shows, some have to do with movies, some have to do with sports and some can’t be classified into any one particular category (like words that begin and end with the letter T). There is something for, literally, everyone to do. 
The reason I like Sporcle so much is that I actually feel like I am doing some­thing productive with my brain while I am procrastinating, rather than letting it rot by watching YouTube videos. If you like reminiscing about old movies, songs or TV shows, Sporcle is full of quizzes that will test your memory and will keep you hooked for hours at a time. And, most importantly, playing involves typing on your computer, so it looks like you are typing a paper to any­one who cares to look or judge you. So when you go back and brag about how you spent eight straight hours at the library, you have on your conscience that you were doing work the whole time. Kind of. 
Andy Ziccarelli is a junior majoring in Civil Engineering. He can be reached at aziccare@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 
Scene

page 12 Friday, January 15, 2010 

By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Assistant Scene Editor 
They’re creepy and their kooky, mysterious and spooky, they’re all together ooky, the Addams Family! And so it goes for the new Broadway-bound musical, which just finished its preview run in Chicago, based on the infamous kooky, spooky and ooky family first created in comic strips by Charles Addams. “The Addams Family,” with music and lyrics by Andrew Lippa (“The Wild Party”) and a book by Marshall Brickman and Rick Elice (“Jersey Boys”), takes those original cartoon characters to craft a new story about Gomez, Morticia, Uncle Fester and the rest of the gang. Anjelica Huston (star of the 1990s films) and John Astin (Gomez in the origi­nal television series) are long gone, but have been fondly replaced with a group of seasoned Broadway veterans and a few promising new­comers. 
Nathan Lane, star of both the Broadway musi­cal and the film “The Producers,” stars as Gomez Addams, the tango-loving patriarch of the family, while Bebe Neuwirth (“Fame,” “Cheers”) plays Morticia, the sultry first lady of the Addams clan, who feels she has lost her edge with the onset of wrinkles. When their daughter Wednesday, played by Krysta Rodriguez (“Spring Awakening”), invites her boyfriend, Lucas Beineke (Wesley Taylor), over for dinner, shenanigans ensue. Unlike the bizarre Addams family, the Beinekes, including father Mal (Terrence Mann of “Les Miserables”) and mother Alice (Carolee Carmello of “Urinetown”), are just too normal. And while the love struck Uncle Fester (Kevin Chamberlin of “Seussical”) just wants to spread the love, scheming little brother Pugsley (Adam Riegler of “Shrek”) gets into some trouble with a mysteri­ous potion, and the dinner party goes awry. 
“The Addams Family” starts off a little slow and really doesn’t seem to click. But, after a few more scenes and a bit more time for the actors to get into character, the show finally hits its stride when the whole Addams family appears on stage and snaps along to the memorable tele­vision theme song. You know the one. The infec­tious snaps signal the start of something awe­some, riddled with innuendos, connotations and cultural references (such as “This little piggy had swine flu”), plus some great music and a few funny twists and turns. 
The story is unexpected, perhaps a little too upbeat for typical “Addams Family” faire, but is lead by such an exciting cast of characters, that the change seems just right. Lane’s comedic tim­ing is perfect, as always, and he plays Gomez with a little less swagger, but a lot more wit than his predecessors. And while Neuwirth’s voice sounds a bit odd as Morticia, she plays the character with enough conviction that you can’t take your eyes off her. Their chemistry is palpa­ble and their scenes together are some of the best. 

The supporting characters are great as well. Mann and Carmello channel Brad and Janet from “The Rocky Horror Picture Show” and never fail to surprise and impress the audience. Chamberlin makes a great Fester, really stand­ing as the centerpiece to the whole show. Rodriguez proves to be a talented young per­former and certainly has a big career ahead of her. 
A testament to the potential that this show has to be a big Broadway hit, the chorus numbers are just as infectious and entertaining as the songs centered solely on the family. The overall ensemble atmosphere is excellent. 
What’s more, the set might be the most stag­gering part of the show. It’s beautifully crafted and the special effects are stunning and seem hardly possible. 
While admittedly flawed, “The Addams Family” is a truly entertaining musical that keeps the audience in stitches without sacrific­ing emotion or poignancy. There are plenty of flukes to be cleaned up before the show hits Broadway in April, but, mostly in part to a truly great ensemble, it has the potential to take Broadway by storm. However, only time will tell if it can hold its own and please the crowds on the Great White Way. 
“The Addams Family”  
Creators: Marshall Brickman & Rick Elice Starring: Nathan Lane, Bebe Neuwirth, Krysta Rodriguez, Kevin Chamberlin  

Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 

The Observer 
Scene

Friday, January 15, 2010 page 13 

By CAITLIN FERRARO 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Art imitated real life last night at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center where the film “Extraordinary Measures” pre­miered a week early to audiences. The film centers on the story of John Crowley and his fight against a rare illness known as Pompe Disease. Crowley, who graduated from Notre Dame Law School in 1992, worked together with Dr. Robert Stonehill to discov­er a cure and save his two youngest chil­dren. 
The film stars Brendan Fraser as Crowley, Harrison Ford as the brilliant but underap­preciated Dr. Stonehill, and Keri Russell as Crowley’s wife Aileen. Ford is also an execu­tive producer of the film. 
Notre Dame had the honor of premiering the film a week earlier than the nationwide release date due to their collaboration with Crowley and the Notre Dame Center for Rare and Neglected Diseases. The Center was also featured this past year in the Notre Dame “What Would You Fight For?” ads during football games. 
Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist Geeta Anand wrote a profile of Crowley in The Wall Street Journal, which she eventually expanded into a book. The 2006 work, enti­tled “The Cure: How a Father Raised $100 Million — And Bucked the Medical Establishment — In a Quest to Save His Children” helped to inspire the film. Now, Crowley himself is writing a personal mem­oir about his experiences. 
“Extraordinary Measures” is an appropri­ate title for the film as it follows the journey of Crowley in his pursuit of a “special drug,” the name he affectionately gives medicine when explaining it to his children, to pre­vent the potentially fatal enlargement of their organs. And Crowley truly does go to extraordinary lengths. Fraser, who tends to play ridiculous, goofy characters, instead succeeds at the serious role of the deter­mined father who will literally stop at noth­ing to save his children’s lives. 

When his daughter Megan (Meredith Droeger) nearly dies, Crowley suddenly decides to give up his hard-earned and suc­cessful career to do everything he can to save his children. He seeks out Dr. Stonehill, a difficult scientist who has never actually created a drug, only theories, but his research is far more advanced than anyone else in the field. Crowley must be quite per­suasive in order to convince Dr. Stonehill to work with him, but they quickly form a for­midable duo. 
The two men must work together to over­come many different obstacles that take shape in the form of staggering costs, pow­erful pharmaceutical companies and their difficult executives. But the largest hurdle of all is the race against time since the life expectancy for children with Pompe Disease is 9 years. When the film starts, Megan has just had her 8th birthday. 
The film is being promoted as similar to other inspirational dramas like “Erin Brockovich” and “The Pursuit of Happyness,” but unfortunately it does not quite live up to those films. While the story is an incredible one that is indeed inspiring, it can also be a bit over the top at times. The daughter brings a few laughs, but almost every other moment is filled with high drama. This is understandable, since the film centers on a life or death situation, but it can be daunting to the viewer. Luckily, due to the quality of acting of the three stars and the adorable child actors, the film is safe from being just another Hallmark movie. 
“Extraordinary Measures” is a well-pro­duced film that displays the astonishing determination and perseverance of not only the characters of Crowley and Dr. Stonehill, but also all families and children affected by Pompe Disease. If you can appreciate the absolute dedication of a father who wants to save his children, then this film is for you. 

Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrar1@nd.edu 



MySpace. Hilton encourages this online com­munity by posting his own videos of new songs, random adventures on the road, and 
silly cooking show. Further, Hilton updates his fans by writing a blog. 
year-old California native has accomplished much in his career thus far. Besides his 2004 record, Hilton previously released an independent, self-titled album. In addition to his venture into acting, AOL, VH1 and MTV have recognized Hilton as an up-and-coming artist. He has performed many times on TRL, and even “The Tonight Show with Jay Leno.” Furthermore, he has 
his own and with the likes of Michelle Branch, Gavin DeGraw, the Goo Goo Dolls and Rooney. Both his covers and origi­
nal songs have been featured on all 
three “One Tree Hill” sound­
tracks. 
Hilton, who began writing songs at age 14, has come a long way from his days in coffee shops and open mic nights, but he con­tinues to aspire for more. He spent most of 2009 writing and recording songs in Nashville for a new album. Last year he also an EP entitled “Better on 
Beachwood” featuring three new songs. 
Hilton also has his own charity, “TH Books for Kids” in which books are donated to chil­dren in need. In the past, Hilton has per­formed charity concerts to fundraise and garner support for the organization. 
to get to Legends on Saturday night in order to rock out and hear old 
as well as enjoy new songs. Admission is free; simply bring your student 
Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrar1@nd.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Friday, January 15, 2010 
NHL 

Toskala makes 38 saves in shutout victory 
Senators take down Rangers in final minutes; Sabres win in overtime; Stars struggle to get on the board 
fight night. Even though there struck a post with a drive from 
Associated Press 
was a brief melee after just inside the blue line with 

TORONTO — Vesa Toskala Stempniak made it 4-0 in the 6:51 remaining in the period. made 38 saves for his first final 2 minutes, it was nothing The Rangers picked up their shutout since October 2008, like the scrap-filled game the play and closed within 15-10 in Tyler Bozak scored his first teams played a week ago at shots through 20 minutes. NHL goal and the Toronto Wachovia Center. The second period featured Maple Leafs beat the much of the same, a quick Philadelphia Flyers 4-0 on Senators 2, Rangers 0 start by Ottawa and a second-Thursday night. Chris Campoli broke up a half surge by New York. 
Nikolai Kulemin, Luke scoreless game with 1:14 Ottawa held the Rangers to Schenn and Lee Stempniak remaining, and the Ottawa only one shot for a good chunk also scored for the Maple Senators snapped a five-game of the period, but the period Leafs. losing streak with a victory ended with the Senators out-
The Flyers lost for just the over the punchless New York shooting them only 12-10. third time in 11 games. Rangers on Thursday night. Marian Gaborik had New 
Bozak opened the scoring at Mike Brodeur , a distant rel-York’s best scoring opportunity 
8:44 of the second period. The ative of New Jersey goalie about 6 minutes into the sec­23-year-old Bozak turned Martin Brodeur , made 32 ond when a turnover by Ryan defenseman Ole-Kristian saves in his second NHL Shannon at the blue line creat-Tollefsen inside-out before appearance to earn his second ed a breakaway. Gaborik made beating Michael Leighton high career victory. The shutout a move in-close, but Brodeur to the glove side. came two days after Martin knocked the puck away. 
Bozak would later earn an Brodeur beat the Rangers 1-0 Kelly tested Lundqvist with a assist on Kulemin’s goal, giving in a shootout at Madison quick shot that was met with a him four points in three NHL Square Garden. lightning-fast glove stab with games. The Leafs signed him Mike Brodeur was pulled off 9:34 left in the second. At the as an undrafted college free the ice during practice for other end, Brodeur made a agent last April and are hoping Binghamton (AHL) on juggling catch as New York’s he develops into a top forward. Thursday after being recalled Vinny Prospal took at the puck 
His good performance came by the Senators. in the air. at an ideal time. Henrik Lundqvist also Nick Foligno nearly broke the exactly a month since putting Dallas Stars on Thursday 
Maple Leafs GM Brian Burke stopped 32 shots but was the drought in the opening minute together consecutive victories, night. conducted a news conference hard-luck loser for the second of the third when his dump-in their last winning streak a Gionta, who scored a power-earlier in the day to answer straight game. He made 45 from outside the blue line took modest two-game stretch that play goal in the first period, got questions about his struggling saves against the Devils on a funny hop and bounced in on ended on Dec. 14. his second of the game with team, giving coach Ron Wilson Tuesday and came out on the Lundqvist, who needed to be Patrick Kaleta put the Sabres the man advantage 7:14 into a vote of confidence in the short end after Patrik Elias quick with his glove to snag the ahead 3 minutes into the sec-the third to give Montreal its process. However, he also scored the only goal in the puck. Mike Fisher fired a shot ond period, taking advantage second and final lead. expressed frustration about the shootout. Lundqvist hadn’t from the top of the left circle, of a fortuitous bounce after an Carey Price stopped 33 shots team’s recent performance. allowed a goal in a career-best during 4-on-4 play, that errant shot by teammate Toni and Benoit Pouliot and Mike 
“We’ve lost our way,” Burke 127 minutes, 30 seconds -dat-Lundqvist stopped with a lung-Lydman . Cammalleri also scored for the said. “We’ve got to get back on ing to the Rangers’ 3-1 win at ing pad save. The Buffalo defenseman Canadiens, who dealt Dallas its track.” Boston on Saturday. missed the net with a shot ninth straight road loss. 
It was clear right from the Now the shutout streak sur-Sabres 2, Thrashers 1 from the point, but the puck Mike Modano got his 550th beginning of this game that rounding the Rangers is the Derek Roy scored a power-ricocheted off the boards and goal in the second to draw the Toronto had more energy than one plaguing their offense. play goal in overtime to give straight to Kaleta standing on Stars even at 3. in recent defeats. The Leafs New York has gone 144:23 the Buffalo Sabres their sev-the opposite side of the crease. Toby Petersen and Steve Ott had three shots on goal in the since its last goal on Saturday. enth win in eight games over As Pavelec scrambled to get also scored for Dallas, which opening minute of play and This blanking cost the team its the Atlanta Thrashers on back into position, Kaleta has not won on the road since AHL callup Jay Rosehill even seven-game point streak (4-0-Thursday night. flipped a perfectly placed shot a 3-2 shootout win in San Jose put a puck in the net -3). With Zach Bogosian in the just under the crossbar for his on Dec. 11. although it was disallowed Ottawa, outscored 22-5 dur-penalty box for elbowing and seventh goal. Marty Turco made 23 saves because he knocked it in with ing its skid, got an empty-net the Thrashers down to only The Thrashers, after failing in the Stars’ first appearance his hand. goal from Chris Kelly in the three skaters, the Sabres had to convert on their first five in Montreal since Jan. 16, 
Philadelphia eventually start-closing seconds for its first win plenty of room to operate. Tim power plays, finally took 2006. Dallas has dropped six of ed coming on after a slow since Jan. 3. The Senators are Connolly guided the power play advantage when they were a its last seven games overall. start, but couldn’t solve an NHL-worst 4-12-1 on the from the center of the ice, just man-up the sixth time. Slava Cammalleri scored the Toskala. His nicest save came road since Oct. 29. inside the blue line, sliding a Kozlov guided a pass to Canadiens’ fifth goal at 16:41 in the opening minute of the Former Rangers forward pass to Roy all alone at the top Kovalchuk breaking in from of the third to make it a two-second period, when he Alex Kovalev sent a cross-zone of the right circle. the left point, and the Atlanta goal lead. stretched his arm across the pass down to Campoli, who Roy ripped off his 11th goal star had time to settle it on his Laraque scored 2:51 into the goal-line to stop what looked squeezed a wrist shot from the of the season, a one-timer over stick, move inside the faceoff second to tie it at 2. Laraque, like a sure goal from Simon bottom edge of the left circle Ondrej Pavelec’s left shoulder circle and rip one over Miller’s who had failed to score in his Gagne . inside the left post for the win-to end the game at 2:27 of the glove. previous 62 games, put his 
Toskala turned away another ning goal. extra period. The Buffalo goalie probably own rebound past Turco from dangerous Gagne chance from The Senators got the jump on Buffalo got back on the win-had trouble getting a good look the slot for his first goal since the slot later in the period the Rangers in the first period, ning side after losing 4-3 to at it with Buffalo defenseman March 28, 2008, when he before Kulemin converted a holding a 9-2 shots edge. Colorado in a shootout on Steve Montador and Atlanta’s scored for Pittsburgh in a 3-1 nice 2-on-1 pass from Phil Kovalev had the best scoring Saturday, snapping a six-game Bryan Little clogging things up win over the New York Kessel with 40.5 seconds chance when he whacked the stretch of victories. Ryan Miller in front of the net. Islanders . remaining in the frame. puck into Lundqvist’s pads at made 32 saves for the Sabres, Pouliot put Montreal ahead 
Schenn’s second goal of the the right point 4:46 in. That improving his record to 26-8-3. Canadiens 5, Stars 3 3-2 with an unassisted goal at season came at 5:54 of the prompted New York coach Ilya Kovalchuk scored his Brian Gionta scored twice in 6:44 after intercepting Stars third period and gave Toronto John Tortorella to use his time-27th goal for Atlanta, which his 500th career game and defenseman Matt Niskanen ‘s all the breathing room it would out. was coming off its first regula-Georges Laraque got his first reckless pass from the right need. Moments earlier, Zack Smith tion win since Nov. 30, a 6-1 goal in more than 21 months to corner. Pouliot put a backhand 
One thing that didn’t really fired a shot off the post behind blowout of Ottawa on Tuesday. send the Montreal Canadiens past Turco for his fifth goal in materialize was a so-called Lundqvist. Erik Karlsson also The Thrashers have gone to a win over the struggling eight games. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Luxury 2 Bed 2 Full Bath Available today! Off-Campus housing 2010-2011, Leah: It’s probably just a food baby. Apartments For IMMEDIATE Move Two newly renovated houses . Did you have a big lunch?WANTED FOR RENT In! Irish Crossings, Dublin Village Juno: No, this is not a food baby all 1203 Hillcrest Rd right? I’ve taken like three pregnan-Full Size Washer and Dryer, 3 blocks to campus -2,3,4 bedrooms still available. cy tests, and I’m forshizz up the FOOSBALL players wanted. HOUSE FOR RENT Optional Fireplace, Dishwasher, 5 BR, spout. 
$500/PERSON Walk In Closets, Awesome $300/mo per BR. and Furnished and UnFurnished. Leah: How did you even generate Have the best table in area. High 2 FULL BATHS Floorplan 705 N Eddy enough pee for three pregnancy level action. 12-15 minutes from 4 BDRM 7 blocks to campus Hurry only a few left. tests? That’s amazing... ND. For Roomates! 5 BR, $250/mo per. ——————————————— 
**WALK TO ND** Best living, safety, Value. Paulie Bleeker: Like I’d marry you! Up to the challenge? Call Today For Discounted ND See Craigs List ad or Call: Karen You’d be the meanest wife ever, 
54650 WILLIS Student Pricing! 708-261-4128 or Amy: 574-226-CES Property Management, okay? And I know that you weren’t Call 257-4441 or 339-2838 or email 8598, for additional information or bored that day because there was a dmetoul@sbcglobal.net CALL 574-277-8471 574-256-1350. to see the homes 574-968-0112 lot of stuff on TV. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around t eNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Friday, January 15, 2010 
page 15 

USA Today Division I Wrestling Poll 
team previous 
1 Iowa 1 2 Iowa State 2 3 Ohio State 3 4 Oklahoma State 4 5 Minnesota 6 6 Boise State 9 7 Cornell 7 8 Maryland 8 9 Lehigh 11 10 Oklahoma 10 11 Central Michigan 5 12 Indiana 12 13 Penn State 14 14 Wisconsin 18 15 Kent State 13 16 Missouri 17 17 Cal Poly 19 18 Pittsburgh 21 19 Illinois 20 20 Virginia Tech NR 21 Edinboro 16 22 Oregon State 24 23 Arizona State 22 24 Virginia 23 25 Nebraska 15 
USCHO/CBS Division I Men’s Hockey Rankings 
team  previous  
1  Denver  2  
2  Miami (OH)  1  
3  Wisconsin  4  
4  North Dakota  5  
5  Yale  6  
6  Ferris State  11  
7  Michigan State  9  
8  Colorado College  3  
9  Cornell  8  
10  Minnesota Duluth  13  
11  Bemidji State  10  
12  Boston College  7  
13  Union (N.Y.)  17  
14  St. Cloud State  15  
15  Mass-Lowell  14  
16  Maine  18  
17  Quinnipiac  12  
18  Vermont  19  
19  Massachusetts  16  
20  New Hampshire  NR  
21  Alaska  20  
22  Lake Superior  NR  
23  NOTRE DAME  NR  
24  Michigan  NR  
25  Minnesota  NR  



around the dial 
NBA 
Suns at Hawks 8 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

Magic at Trail Blazers 
10:30 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

Wizards’ Arenas charged with felony 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Gilbert Arenas has a court date and an apparent plea deal is in place, signaling a possible quick resolu­tion to at least one side of a guns-in-the-locker-room confrontation that stained the NBA and jeopardized the career of the three-time All-Star. 
Arenas was charged Thursday with felony gun possession — one count of carrying a pistol without a license — a crime that carries a maximum penal­ty of five years in prison. The charges were filed in 
D.C. Superior Court in an “information,” a docu ­ment that indicates a plea bargain has been reached. 
The charge came direct­ly from prosecutors and not in the form of an indictment — even though a grand jury has been investigating — and Arenas was listed on the docket for a court appear­ance Friday afternoon. 
Arenas has acknowl­edged storing four unloaded guns in his lock­er at the Verizon Center, saying he wanted to keep them away from his young children and didn't know it was a violation of the city's strict gun laws. He says he took them out of the locker Dec. 21 in a “misguided effort to play a joke” on a teammate. 
The criminal charge came on the same day that the teammate, Javaris Crittenton, had his northern Virginia apart­ment searched by police looking for a silver-or chrome-colored semiauto­matic handgun with a black handle. The search warrant indicated police were investigating crimes that include brandishing a weapon. No evidence was seized, according to court documents, and Crittenton has not been charged. 
Two league officials have said a spat between Arenas and Crittenton began Dec. 19 while play­ers were playing cards and gambling on the team plane during a flight home from a West Coast road trip. Their dispute became heated when the team reconvened for practice two days later. There have been conflict­ing published accounts as to whether Crittenton had a gun and whether he drew it on Arenas. 
Arenas' lawyer, Crittenton's lawyer and the NBA had no immedi­ate comment on the crimi­nal charge. Crittenton has previously said he did nothing wrong, and his agent, Mark Bartelstein, said his client was there during the apartment search. 
“It went as smooth as it could have gone,” Bartelstein said. 
IN BRIEF 
Giants hire Perry Fewell as defensive coordinator 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J — Buffalo Bills interim coach Perry Fewell has been hired as the New York Giants' defensive coordinator. 
Coach Tom Coughlin announced the move late Thursday evening after Fewell spent the past few days weighing offers from the Giants and the Chicago Bears. 
Fewell also interviewed for the vacant Bills coaching job but he has said for a while that he felt he was a long shot for that position. 
Giants rookie defensive coordina­tor Bill Sheridan was fired the day after the regular season ended. The Giants gave up more than 40 points in each of their last two games and 427 points for the season, ranking third from the bottom in the NFL. Only the Detroit Lions and St. Louis Rams gave up more. 
Fewell and Coughlin have known each other for years. 
Garcon makes contact with family in Haiti 
INDIANAPOLIS — Indianapolis Colts receiver Pierre Garcon was con­tacted by some family members in Haiti and received some good news. 
U.S. national soccer team member Jozy Altidore was not so fortunate and planning to travel to Haiti to search for his relatives. 
And two days after the island nation was devastated by an earthquake, donations to help relief efforts were flowing from around the sports world. 
Garcon said Thursday he got calls earlier in the day from relatives, who let him know they had survived the earthquake that devastated Haiti two days earlier. 
Garcon said his mother received a call from a relative on Wednesday night. 
“I heard from some family, got some good information,” he said. “We're still looking for the rest of them.” 
Mets upset with Carlos Beltran knee surgery 
NEW YORK — The New York Mets are upset Carlos Beltran had knee surgery this week after the team asked him to wait while manage­ment discussed options with its medical staff. 
Assistant general manager John Ricco said the All-Star center fielder had permission to be examined Tuesday by Dr. Richard Steadman, a knee specialist in Colorado who also looked at Beltran last summer. Steadman recommended surgery 
“We told the agent for the player that we wanted to have the ability to discuss the diagnosis and possibly have a third opinion because, you know, of the nature of this injury,” Ricco said during a telephone con­ference call Thursday. “We wanted to have the opportunity to digest the information, the diagnosis, and unfortunately we were never afford­ed the opportunity to do that.” 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, January 15, 2010 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Skip Holtz to coach at USF 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. — Skip Holtz is the new football coach at South Florida, taking over a program recovering from a scandal that led to the firing of Jim Leavitt. 
The 45-year-old Holtz led East Carolina to the past two Conference USA champi­onships. He inherits a talented but inconsistent team that’s tasted the national limelight while also falling short of a goal of winning the Big East. 
Holtz informed his old team of his decision during a meet­ing with players Thursday in Greenville, N.C. USF will intro­duce him as the second coach in the Bulls’ 13-year history on Friday. 
AOL FanHouse was first to report the hiring. 
Holtz replaces Leavitt, fired last week after a school inves­tigation concluded he grabbed a player by the throat, slapped him in the face, then lied about it. Holtz was 38-27 in five seasons with East Carolina, including wins in the past two C-USA title games and high-profile victories against Virginia Tech and West Virginia in 2008. 
Holtz was under contract through the 2013 season and had only a $100,000 buyout. He made $605,000 in base salary this year, though that figure rose to nearly $900,000 due to several incentives. 
The son of former Notre Dame and South Carolina coach Lou Holtz has been an annual fixture on the list of top candidates for coaching vacancies. He flirted with Cincinnati and Syracuse in recent years, but insisted he wasn’t looking to leave the program he rebuilt from its miserable state earlier this decade. 
East Carolina had lost 22 of 25 games —19 by double-digit margins and seven by at least 33 points — when he arrived after the 2004 season. The Pirates steadily rose from there, reaching a bowl game in his second season and win­ning one the following year. 
The consecutive league titles were the first conference crowns for the program since 1976, sending the Pirates to the Liberty Bowl each time. East Carolina was an inde­pendent from 1977-96 before joining C-USA. 
South Florida has been one of the nation’s fastest rising 
programs  over  the past  
decade.  
Le avitt  was  hire d  in  

December 1995, launched the Bulls from scratch a little less than two years later, and com­piled a 95-57 record in 13 sea­sons. 
USF was ranked as high as No. 2 in 2007 before strug­gling in conference play and tumbling out of the Top 25. 
Fast starts the past two sea­sons, carrying the Bulls into the Top 25, also were followed by puzzling mid-season swoons that undermined bids for Big East titles. 
Leavitt, who just completed the second season of a seven-year, $12.6 million contract, was dismissed following a three-week investigation into an accusation that he grabbed sophomore walk-on Joel Miller and struck him during half­time of a game against Louisville on Nov. 21. 
Although Leavitt told investi­gators he didn’t strike Miller and was only trying to moti­vate the players when he grabbed Miller’s shoulder pads, the school concluded the coach’s account was not credi­ble. 
Miller, who also told investi­gators Leavitt did not hit him, said during a news conference Thursday that he attempted to cover up what happened because he feared it would harm his career and also cost Leavitt his job. 
The player and his attorney called for a public apology, saying they may consider filing a lawsuit if he doesn’t admit wrongdoing. 
“We don’t want to play hard ball,” attorney Barry Cohen said. “We can, and we will, to protect the dignity of this young man.” 
USF athletic director Doug Woolard contacted Holtz last weekend and met with him Tuesday while Holtz was in Orlando for the American Football Coaches Association convention. 
Holtz said at the time the South Florida opening was appealing for several reasons, including an opportunity to work in a BCS conference. 
NBA 
Wadeworkingtohave lawsuit dismissed 
Associated Press 
WEST PALM BEACH, Florida — An antitrust lawsuit against Dwyane Wade should be dis ­missed because the NBA star has the right to control licensing of his name and image, Wade’s attorneys told a federal judge on Thursday. 
But lawyers for Wade’s former partners in a failed restaurant ven ­ture contended that the Miami Heat guard vio ­lated antitrust laws by walking away, and they want $90 million in damages from Wade . They argue that when Wade withdrew permis ­sion to license his name, he illegally squelched competition for valuable personal ­ized items such as signed basketballs, T-shirts and hats. 
Wade ’s attorneys told 
U.S. District Judge Kenneth Marra that a celebrity has never been accused in a U.S. court of wrongly monopolizing his own memorabilia market. Wade’s decision to terminate his deal with partners in the D. Wade’s Place chain was within his rights to license his own image as he sees fit, attorney Robert Turken said. 
“If you have a right to give a license, you have 
a  r i g h t  n o t  t o  g i v e  a  
l i c e n s e .  I f  y o u  h a v e  a  
r i g h t  n o t  t o  g i v e  a  

license, you have a right to take it away,” Turken said. 
Marra said he would rule on the request to dismiss the case “as soon as possible ” but didn’t specify when. 
Bruce Fein, attorney for the former partners, said Wade’s decision to abandon the project triggered the antitrust violation because it removed a competitor in the memorabilia busi ­ness . D. Wade ’s Place was envisioned as a national chain of upscale sports restau ­rants that would sell Wade items at its loca ­tions and on the Internet . Only two Florida locations opened and they quickly closed. 
Wade ’s contract gave the venture rights to use his name and like ­ness forever, Fein said. 
Wade ranks fifth in the NBA with a scoring average of 27 points per game, and he has lucra­tive deals with Nike ’s Jordan Brand, T-Mobile and Gatorade. 
NFL 

Titan’s Johnson the top choice for All-Pro team 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Chris Johnson didn’t get any votes for MVP. He didn’t miss any for The Associated Press 2009 NFL All-Pro team. 
The 2,000-yard rusher from the Tennessee Titans was the only unanimous choice for the squad, announced Thursday. He’s joined in the backfield by Colts quarter­back Peyton Manning, who won an unprecedented fourth Most Valuable Player Award last week, when only quarterbacks received votes. 
“That’d be a good thing,” said Johnson, who won the Offensive Player of the Year award Wednesday. “Because I feel like if you put a season out there, out of those dudes who got votes or the dudes who won, I wouldn’t feel they had a better season than I had, and broke as many records in one season that I had.” 
For setting the league mark for yards from scrimmage and becoming the sixth 2,000-yard rusher in NFL history, Johnson got all 50 votes from a nationwide panel of sports writers. One other player, San Francisco inside line­backer Patrick Willis, came close with, appropriately, 49. Cornerbacks Charles Woodson of Green Bay, the Defensive Player of the Year, and Darrelle Revis of the New York Jets each got 48, as did Oakland punter Shane Lechler. 
“I just think Patrick is a very unique guy,” 49ers coach Mike Singletary said. “He’s a guy who’s always going to be around the ball. He has the instincts. He has the speed. He can be where he wants to be.” 
He’s on the All-Pro team for the second time in his three pro sea­sons. The other inside linebacker, Baltimore’s Ray Lewis, made it for the seventh time. 
Other veteran All-Pros include Manning, chosen for the fifth time, as were Minnesota guard Steve Hutchinson and Vikings defensive tackle Kevin Williams, and Lechler. 
The Vikings had the most play­ers on the team with four — run­ning back Adrian Peterson and defensive end Jared Allen also made it. Next was Indianapolis with three: Manning, tight end Dallas Clark, and DE Dwight Freeney. 
New Orleans (guard Jahri Evans and safety Darren Sharper), Dallas (outside linebacker DeMarcus Ware and defensive tackle Jay Ratliff), the Jets (Revis and center Nick Mangold), Denver (tackle Ryan Clady and defensive end Elvis Dumervil) and Cleveland (tackle Joe Thomas and kick returner Joshua Cribbs) had two players. 
“To be selected for the All-Pro team is really overwhelming to me,” Clady said. “There are so many great tackles playing right now. To be recognized among them is truly a blessing. I would like to thank my teammates and coaches for this honor.” 
In all, there were 15 AFC players and 12 from the NFC selected. 


Friday, January 15, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
MLB 

Ownersandumps sign new contract 
Associated Press 
PARADISE VALLEY, Ariz. — Baseball owners unanimously ratified a five-year contract with umpires on Thursday, wrapping up a decade of labor peace in a sport once plagued by work stoppages. 
The deal, expected to be rat­ified by umpires on Monday, would remove a ban on umpires appearing in consecu­tive World Series, according to a person with knowledge of the agreement. The person spoke on condition of anonymity because umpires had yet to vote on the pact. 
The agreement also would allowing management to use of video to evaluate umpires and establish new programs for early retirement, a person at the meeting said. That per­son spoke on condition of anonymity because owners didn’t reveal those details. 
Ending the World Series restriction would allow the best umpires to work those games in repeated seasons. Removal of that provision would come after several blown calls in the 2009 series. 
Baseball has not had a seri­ous labor problem since 1999, when a dispute led to mass resignation by umpires, with 22 of them losing their jobs. There has been no works stop­page in the sport since 1994. 
“Having lived through the work stoppages of ‘72, ‘76, ‘80, ‘81, ‘85, ‘90, ‘94, that you’d have 16 years of labor peace, peace with the umpires, it’s one of the things I’m very proud of,” commissioner Bud Selig said. 


The vote came at the end of two days of owners meetings that included general man­agers of most teams. 
“It really was terrific,” Selig said. “I would say it was long overdue.” 
Selig said general managers would be invited to the own­ers’ next meeting in May. 
Owners heard an economic report from conservative columnist George Will, among 14 men of a committee appointed by Selig to discuss on-field matters. 
Among those items is whether video replay should be expanded. 
Its use began in 2008 but is limited to determining whether potential home runs are fair or whether balls went over the fence. 
Will believes the economy will hurt baseball but thinks there might be some benefit because it’s a bargain for fans relative to other sports — if people don’t take expensive summer vacations, they could show up at the ballpark. 
Selig said it is too early to tell whether the economy will affect baseball in the coming season, although his expecta­tions were “about the same, maybe a little better” than last year. 
“Look, you can’t get econo­mists to agree on how things are going to be,” he said. “I’m an optimist by nature so I think we’ll do OK.” 
Selig also announced to the owners that baseball was giv­ing $1 million to UNICEF to help provide relief to victims of the devastating earthquake in Haiti. 
In the final session of their two-day meetings, owners heard an emotional report from representatives of Stand Up To Cancer, an organization that has received much help from baseball. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Chows turns down USC offer 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — Norm Chow declined the chance to switch teams again in Los Angeles’ fierce football rivalry. 
Chow said Thursday he’ll stay at UCLA for his third sea­son as offensive coordinator, rebuffing overtures from Lane Kiffin to return to Southern California. 
After a couple of uneasy as fact. 
“At that point I hadn’t spo­ken to anyone, and to me, that was very, very unfair,” said Chow, who was at a hospital with his wife to visit a sick friend when he first heard he was leaving UCLA. 
Lane Kiffin left several mes­sages for Chow, and USC even­tually spoke with Chow’s agent, Don Yee, and Chow’s son, Carter, a lawyer who year run under former coach Pete Carroll. 
days during which  works with  
the Trojans openly  Yee. Chow  
courted Chow,  is in the  
UCLA coach Rick Neuheisel was grateful to learn his widely respect­ “I certainly understand the challenges, but I’m  final year of his contract at UCLA, but USC’s  
ed offensive mas­termind had passed on a lucra­tive contract offer  looking forward to what lies ahead at UCLA.”  i n t e r e s t seems likely to spur progress on  
at USC.  an exten- 
“It’s an exciting time to be at UCLA,” Chow said.  Norm Chow UCLA coach  sion. USC’s big c o n t r a c t  
“I certainly under- offer didn’t  
stand the chal- sway Chow,  
lenges, but I’m  he said: “It’s  

But Carroll replaced the longtime assistant with Kiffin and Steve Sarkisian in 2005 in a move still lamented by many Trojans fans. Carroll appar­ently wanted to shift Chow’s responsibility primarily to coaching quarterbacks while turning over the offense to his two young assistants. 
Chow said he had “no prob­lem with Lane Kiffin,” and the two have talked over the years. 
“Lane Kiffin is going to do well at USC, and it’s going to present an extremely formida­ble challenge for us all,” Chow said. “He’s an extremely bright young football coach, and he’s putting together a great staff.” 
After leaving USC, Chow ran the Tennessee Titans’ offense for three seasons before returning to Los Angeles when Neuheisel became UCLA’s coach in 2008. 
“As Norm said, we are build­ing something very special at UCLA, and he is certainly an important part of the pack­age,” Neuheisel said. “We have unfinished business here at UCLA, and our coaches and players are very excited about our future. I’m glad Norm wants to finish what he’s start­ed. UCLA is a special place to call home.” 
UCLA (7-6) beat Temple 30­21 in the EagleBank Bowl last month to finish with a winning record for the first time since 2006. 
looking forward to what lies ahead at UCLA.” 
USC athletic director Mike Garrett acknowledged Wednesday he hoped to lure Chow to Kiffin’s new staff, joining defensive guru Monte Kiffin and top recruiter Ed Orgeron. But the rumblings began to circulate through the media before USC had even made contact with Chow, who was on vacation in Florida when his imminent departure from UCLA was being reported not always about the money.” 
During nearly four decades in college football, Chow has coached three Heisman Trophy winners while running some of the nation’s most sophisticated passing games, starting with 27 seasons alongside LaVell Edwards with BYU and its innovative spread offense. 
Chow was the Trojans’ offen­sive coordinator from 2001­04, during the first four sea­sons of their remarkable nine-
PGA 
Love among leaders at Sony Open 
Associated Press 
HONOLULU — Davis Love III went two months without competing, the last month without even feeling grass under his feet. He played Thursday at the Sony Open like he had never been away from the game. 
Love played bogey-free in more wind than he was expecting at Waialae, mak­ing birdie on his last hole for a 5-under 65 that put him into a four-way tie for the lead among early starters with defending champion Zach Johnson, Ryan Palmer and PGA Tour rookie Troy Merritt. 
“It’s a nice way to start the year,” Love said. 
The relative calm on Oahu during practice rounds gave way to swaying of palm trees at sunrise along the shores of Waikiki, providing 
t o u g h  c o n d i t i o n s  f o r  t h e  
morning.  
J o h n s o n , p l a y i n g  i n  t h e  

same group with Love, made seven birdies over his final 11 holes to join him atop the leaderboard. 
The biggest surprise was Merritt, the wire -to -wire winner of Q-school last month who had never played in a PGA Tour event. Merritt felt the butterflies on the first tee, then played like a veteran. 
“Things went way better than I thought, ” Merritt said. 
Johnson had no idea that he inspired another player to get off to a calm start. 
Palmer was looking for something to read earlier in the week when he came across an article about Johnson that dealt with tak­ing golf one day at a time. He didn ’t look at leader ­boards or worry about the weekend until he signed for his 65. 
“Best start in my seven-year career,” Palmer said. 
Johnson followed his own advice. Asked if this was the start of an encore from a year ago, he quickly replied, “No.” 
“I’m trying to forget about those results from last year, but I’m trying to remember the positive vibes ... some of the feelings that I had with my shots, ” Johnson said. “But if I dwell in the past too much, I usually start with a 75. 
Masters champion Angel Cabrera hit wedge into the par-5 ninth, with a strong breeze at his back, and fin­ished with a birdie to join the group at 68 that includ­ed Pat Perez. 
Love again needs another big start to the year to get into the Masters. He played so much last year that he felt like he was spinning his wheels, and the end came after he withdrew at Disney after one round. 
With cold weather in Sea Island along the Georgia coast, and his vacation to the slopes, he couldn’t wait to get on grass. After checking into the hotel at Waialae on Saturday night, he rushed out to the 11th green in twi­light and 
backing up in “It’s a nice way to began put ­the wrong ting. 
start the year.” 
direction.” Of all the Merritt is practicing he 
one of four Davis Love III did in his players at the golfer garage, it was 
Sony Open who had never teed it up on the PGA Tour. He played alongside 21-year­old Rickie Fowler, who brought loads of expecta­tions into his rookie season. But it was Merritt who shined, plodding his way along and finishing with a birdie on the par-5 18th to join the leaders. 
Fowler opened with a three -putt double bogey from 8 feet and wound up his putting 
that left him 
curious. Love, 
h o w e v e r, decided to give each putt one read and hit it like it was a pro-am round, and he was pleasantly surprised to see so many of them go in. 
“I was optimistic,” Love said. “But I was anxious about competing. Once I got it going, once I got under par ... I’ve been out here a long time. You don ’t for ­get.” 


page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, January 15, 2010 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

USF player looks for public apology 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. — The player who says fired South Florida football coach Jim Leavitt grabbed him by the 
throat  and  slapped  him in  
t h e  f a c e  w a n t s  a  p u b l i c  
apology.  

The attorney for Joel Miller said Thursday that the sophomore walk -on is not interested in filing a lawsuit, but could if Leavitt doesn’t “man up” and admit wrongdoing in the locker room incident that cost the coach his job. 
Leavitt was 

fired last “We don’t want a was “down ” week after a fight. We don’t want a when he university grabbed
lawsuit.” 
investigation Miller’s concluded he shoulder pads grabbed Barry Cohen during half ­Miller during Attorney to Joel Miller time of a 
halftime of a game, slapped the player twice in the face and then lied about it. The coach strongly denies the accusa­tion and wants his job back. 
“We’re ready for a fight,” said Barry Cohen, Miller’s attorney. “We don’t want a fight. We don’t want a law­suit. We don’t want to pur­sue any criminal cases. We just want you to say, I made a mistake.” 
Speaking publicly for the first time since Leavitt ’s dismissal, Miller spoke briefly during a news con­ference but did not answer questions. 
Miller, whose allegation was first reported by AOL FanHouse, said he attempt­ed to cover up what hap ­pened because he feared it would dam ­age his career, cre ­ate prob ­and grabbed me and hit me, I was more stunned than anything. I didn ’t really know what to do. I wasn’t going to lash out at my head football coach. You just don’t do that as a play­er.” 
Leavitt launched South Florida ’s program from scratch in the mid -1990’s and compiled a 95 -37 record in 13 seasons. 
The fired coach told investigators he has never struck a play-
e r  a n d  t h a t  
he  was trying  
t o  l i f t  t h e  

spirits of a player who 

“When he came over to
lems for son of a seven-Leavitt and me that day and year, $12.6 potentially million con ­
grabbed me and hit
become a tract extension 
me, I was more
distraction that called for for the stunned than a base salary team. anything.” of $800,000 in 
“ H e 2010. grabbed me The school 
Joel Miller
by the neck says he was and he hit USF football player fired with 
game against Louisville on Nov. 21. 
The univer­
sity investiga­tion concluded the coach’s account was not credible because it was not support­ed by statements obtained from others, who either witnessed the incident or were told of it by Miller. 
“There’s a difference in being tough with your play­ers and being humiliating,” Cohen said. 
“Being pushed and being motivated is one thing. He’s been motivated and pushed all of his life. But being grabbed by the throat and being slapped in the face is not being a football coach. It’s being a bully. That’s not part of the game.” 
Leavitt ’s attorneys con ­
tend the firing  was  unwar­ 
ranted.  
T h e  c o a c h  

just finished the second sea-
me twice, ” said Miller, flanked by Cohen and sitting in front of his parents. 
“Everyone knows the truth inside that locker room. All the players know the truth. All the coaches know the truth. ... I covered it up, and then it got to be where it was too big for me to handle any more. All I want is for the truth to come out, and I want coach Leavitt to just admit that he did grab me and did hit me twice.” 
Miller has known Leavitt since the player was 12 years old and a regular participant in the coach’s football camps. 
“Playing football, growing up, you’re taught that your head football coach is like a father figure. When he came over to me that day cause, meaning he’s entitled to 
one month ’s base pay — $66,667. 
If fired without cause, the university would owe Leavitt about $7 million, which is 75 percent of the remainder of the contract. 
Cohen said Miller retain­ing legal counsel is about the coach doing the right thing, not a lawsuit or money. 
Looking into a row of tel­evision cameras, the attor­ney made a direct appeal to Leavitt. 
“You tell these kids to man up. Manning up is about stepping up to the plate now,” Cohen said. “I know you’ve got $7 or $8 million out there. But you know what, you ’re not going to win that case. There’s too much evidence against you.” 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Devine and Sanders to return 
made their decisions on 
Associated Press 
the final day eligible 
CHARLESTON, W.Va. — underclassmen could West Virginia running declare for the draft. back Noel Devine and “I have seen these two wide receiver Jock really mature and grow, 
Sanders will return for not only on 
their senior seasons instead of entering the NFL draft. 
Devine, the team’s leading rusher, and Sanders, the team’s leading receiver, were the Mountaineers ’ co-off en sive 
p l a y e r s  o f  t h e  
year.  
“ I t ’s  a l l  

“It’s all about unfinished business on the field and in the classroom.” 
Noel Devine 
West Virginia 
running back 
about unfinished business 
on the field and in the classroom, ” Devine said Thursday. “West Virginia University and my coaches are doing a great job of preparing me for the NFL and for life after foot ­ball.” 
Devine and Sanders, both Florida natives, entered the program together in 2007 and Devine had dubbed the pair Batman and Robin. 
Both are fathers and would be the first in their families to earn college degrees. 
Quarterback Jarrett Brown exhausted his eli­gibility this season and if Devine left, West Virginia would have entered the 2010 season with its most inexperienced backfield in five seasons. 
Devine and Sanders 
the football field, but in their quest of life,” coach Bill Stewart said. “Obtaining their degrees and preparing for life after foot ­ball is of utmost impor­
tance to them and to our program.” 
Devine became the focal point of West Virginia ’s running game in 2009 with 
the depar-playing 
“There’s a group of us 
ture of front of the Pat White, that came in together, greatest fans the top played together, grew in America, 
rushi ng but my ulti ­
up together, bonded 
qua rt er-mate goal is to back in together and want to earn my college leave together.” degree.” footb all Sanders led history. t h e
Jock Sanders 
D e v i n e Mountaineers rushed for West Virginia with 72 catch­1,465 wide receiver es for 688 an all-Big East selection. 
He ran for 168 yards and a score in a 33 -21 loss to Florida State in the Gator Bowl . His 3,381 yards in three seasons are the fifth highest in school history. 
He ’ll need 1,783 yards to break the school career record of 5,164 yards set by Avon Cobourne from 1999-2002. 
Devine lost both of his parents to AIDS, wit ­nessed a friend’s murder and spurred attempts by former NFL star Deion Sanders to adopt him while in high school. 
“Each year on the team has been important and each of us has given a lit­tle bit more. Now it’s time for my senior season with my teammates — and I want it to be a special one, so I am going to give even more, ” Devine said. “I really enjoy in 
yards this season, ninth-best in major college football and the fourth -highest total in school history. He scored 13 touchdowns and was yards and three TDs. He would need 55 catches next 
season to break the school career record of 191 set by David Saunders from 1995-98. 


Friday, January 15, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
FENCING 

Irish head to San Jose for weekend tourney 
By KEVIN BALDWIN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish men and women will go to San Jose, Calif. to compete in the NACD tournament from today until Jan. 18. 
Competing in the epee tournament will be junior Chris Pfarr and freshman Jack Piasio. Sisters Courtney and Kelley Hurley will be competing in the women’s epee com­petition. 
Sophomore Nicholas Crebs, junior Steve Kubik, sophomore Gerek Meinhardt and junior Zach Schirtz will lead the mens’ foil. The women’s squad will be represented by freshman Grace Hartman, sophomore Darsie Malynn, freshman Phenix Messersmith, junior Hayley Reese and sophomore Radmila Sarkisova. 

Freshman Jason Choy, sophomore Keith Feldman, sophomore Marcel Frenkel, junior Barron Nydam will represent the men’s sabre competition, while sophomore Beatriz Almeida, junior Sarah Borrman, freshman Abigail Nichols, as well as upcom­ing freshmen Lian Osier and Marta Stepien will represent the women. 
Courtney Hurley is com­ing off a gold medal victo­ry at the women’s Junior World Cup in November while Kelley Hurley cap­
t u r e d  t h e  U S FA  N o r t h  
A m e r i c a n  C u p  i n  
December.  

Contact Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwi2@nd.edu 
NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
No. 2 Stanford routs WSU 
Associated Press 
STANFORD, Calif. — Nnemkadi Ogwumike had 22 points and 13 rebounds, Kayle Pedersen added 13 points and 10 rebounds and No. 2 Stanford rolled to an 80-43 win over Washington State on Thursday night, though it might have been a 
c o s t l y  v i c t o r y  f o r  t h e  
Cardinal.  
J a y n e  A p p e l  a d d e d  1 4  

points, nine rebounds and matched her career-high with six blocks for Stanford (14-1, 4-0 Pac-10), which lost guard Jeanette Pohlen to a right ankle injury early in the sec­ond half. 
With J.J. Hones out with a sore left knee, the injury to Pohlen thinned Stanford’s ranks but it didn’t slow the Cardinal down against the smaller, slower Cougars (5­11, 0-5). 
KiKi Moore scored 14 points to lead Washington State, which has never defeated the Cardinal in 49 games in a series dating to 1983. 
Ogwumike, who was select­ed Pac-10 Player of the Week 
on Monday, recorded her sixth double-double of the season despite playing with a sore right elbow she injured midway through the first half. The injury forced the Stanford sophomore sensation to the bench twice for treat­ment but didn’t seem to affect her shot much. 
The conference’s leading scorer, Ogwumike went 11 of 15 from the field while top­ping the 20-point mark for the fourth straight game and the ninth time this season. 
She had plenty of help while leading Stanford to its 37th straight win at Maples Pavilion. 
Pedersen, who is second in the Pac -10 scoring race behind Ogwumike, had her fourth double-double in five games while helping the Cardinal outrebound the Cougars 58 -35. Pedersen showed her athleticism late in the first half when she grabbed a defensive rebound, dribbled the length of the court and scored on a layup while being fouled. 
Her free throw gave Stanford a 40-16 lead with 
2:56 to play and she later added a 17-foot jumper to cap a 22-4 run. 
The Cardinal have won five straight since an 80-68 loss to No. 1 Connecticut on Dec. 23. 
Washington State scored the first six points of the second half but got no closer than 20 points the rest of the game. 
The Cougars, 0-25 on the road against Stanford, shot 
18.4 percent from the field in the first half and went just 4 
o f  2 8  f r o m  3 -p o i n t  r a n g e  
w h i l e  l o s i n g  t h e i r  s i x t h  
straight.  



page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, January 15, 2010 
Palmieri 
continued from page 24 
take home gold at the World Junior Championships. He fin­ished third on the team in scor­ing, with a goal and eight assists alongside a plus-eight rating for the tournament. 
Palmieri’s return is even more welcome as Notre Dame will be without the services of sopho­more wing Billy Maday for at least six weeks. Maday, who leads the Irish with 19 points, is sidelined because of a separat­ed shoulder. 
“We’re going to need some­body to replace Mayday for six to eight weeks,” Jackson said. “With [Palmieri] coming back, I gave him some time off specifi­cally to be able to come back 
Break 
continued from page 24 
Returning from last year’s squad are All-American seniors Jaclyn Espinoza in the throwing events and Joanna Schultz in the sprints. Expected to make a strong showing are returning Big East competitor Eric Quick in the jumps and NCAA decathlon performer Justin Schneider. Returning Big East competitor Jaime Minor in the jumps and freshman standout Nevada Sorensen in the sprints should also perform well. 
Coming off strong perform­ances in the Big East outdoor 
Swim 
continued from page 24 
Northwestern, are hoping that the back-to-back meets will give them a chance to reap the benefits of their recent training in Puerto Rico over the holidays. 
“This is a toughness test for us,” Welsh said. “We want to see how well we’ve recov ­butterfly and 

“Our goal is to be
ered from our the 1,000-yard training trip. present and freestyle Our team contributing at the respectively. showed positive Welsh, howev-
National
signs last week er, isn’t getting against Championships.” complacent, Northwestern, setting high but of course goals for his 
Tim Welsh 
we would like swimmers. 
Irish coach
to swim faster against Michigan State and Louisville.” 
Though the back-to-back meets, which will be followed up by the Shamrock Invitational at the end of January, will certainly put a physical strain on his team, Welsh is going into the week­end with a clear plan in mind. 
“As we look ahead to the and not be tired. I know what kind of a drain that tournament is. The intention is that he comes back in and makes a dif­ference immediately.” 
With things seeming bleak for Notre Dame, senior captain Ryan Thang recognized the importance of picking up some points this weekend. 
“Our backs are against the wall,” Thang said. “In the earli­er parts of the season, you’re trying to right the ship and mess with the system. We don’t have that option anymore. We either win hockey games or the season is over.” 
Friday’s game will begin at 8 
p.m. at Notre Dame and Saturday’s will begin at 7 p.m. in East Lansing. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
championships last season with a championship for the men’s squad and a solid fifth place finish for the women, expecta­tions are high for the talented Irish on both sides. 
“We want to make it to the Big East and win,” Piane said. “That is certainly our goal in the short term. For the long term, we want to send as many individual men and women and relay teams as possible to the NCAA Tournament.” 
The Irish will begin competi­tion today at 7 p.m. at the Notre Dame Indoor Opener in the Loftus Sports Center. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
conference championship, we swim seven sessions in a row at that meet and we want seven good ones,” Welsh said. “We’re trying to build into that experience of saying, be tough every time out.” 
The Irish will look to ride the momentum of freshman Bill Bass and junior Steven Brus, who posted the team’s second-fastest times of the season against Northwestern 
in the 100-yard 
“Our goal is 
to be present and contributing at the National Championships,” Welsh said. 
The Irish will square off against the Spartans at 5 p.m. Friday and the Cardinals at 
1:30 p.m. Saturday, both at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles to face conference foes 
her knee and will not be 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
swimming this weekend. 
Sports Writer 
But despite these absences, 
other girls have stepped up 
Saint Mary ’s is off to to fill in their places. Michigan this weekend for Senior captain Sara two meets against MIAA Niemann, who swims dis-rivals Hope and Olivet. With tance freestyle and back-the championship meet only stroke, is looking for a 
o n e m o n t h  s t r o n g  
away, the Belles  w e e k e n d  
a r e l o o k i n g t o  while miss- 
p e r f o r m w e l l both Friday and  “They were living  i n g L i e r z . Nie m an n i s  
Saturday. Unfortunately, the new semes­t e r m a r k s t h e  here together with pretty much no one else and had double  j o i n e d b y s o p h o m o r e B a r b a r a Beidler, who  
l o s s o f o n e o f the best swim-m e r s f o r t h e B e l l e s . S o p h o m o r e  practices every day, so everyone is mesh­ing pretty well together.”  s w i m s freestyle. T h e s t r o n g e s t p a r t o f t h e  
A u d r e y  B e l l e s m a y  
Dalrymple, who m a d e i t t o n a t i o n a l s l a s t  Alicia Dombkowski Belles coach  b e t h e i r f r e s h m e n c l a s s ,  
year, is current- i n c l u d i n g  
l y s t u d y i n g  t w o y o u n g  
a b r o a d i n  l a d i e s w h o  

Ireland and will miss the have shone since the begin-end of the season. ning of the season in Additionally, senior October. Ellie Watson, a dis-Meredith Lierz recently hurt tance swimmer, and Katie 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s will travel to Olivet Saturday for a con­ference match that may prove to be a challenge for the Belles. Coming off a tough loss to top -ranked rival Hope We d n e s d a y, Saint Mary’s 
“We need to stay 
is working to recover focused as we near before jump-
the end of the frst 
ing into one 
round of conference
of its busiest times of the season. 
“We are preparing to play four games in eight days — and three of those games are on the road, ” 
play.” 
Jennifer Henley Belles coach 
Belles 
coach Jennifer Henley said. “We need to stay focused as we near the end of the first round of conference play.” 
The Comets (4 -11, 3-3 MIAA), though seemingly an easy opponent due to their record, nevertheless will pose a unique set of challenges for the Belles (8-5, 3-2 MIAA). 
“Olivet is playing very well right now, despite their record,” Henley said. 
“They have a lot of new faces this sea­son and play very up-tempo basketball.” 
Leading the Comets is soph omore center Olivia Parrell, who has been aver­aging more than 11 points and six rebounds per game for Olivet. Parrell will face the 
Belles’ record-setting sen­ior forward Anna Kammrath in the paint Saturday. Kammrath aver­ages 9.8 points this season while leading the Belles in rebounds with 9.8 Griffin, who swims freestyle, butterfly and backstroke, have promising careers ahead. 
“Being freshmen, I am not sure how far they will make it this season, but by senior year I can see a national cut eventually,” Belles coach Alicia Dombkowski said. 
This weekend holds the first meet for the Belles since break. During that time, the team was able to grow together as a team and to improve as individu­als. 
“Especially after they had winter training, they have grown really close. They were living here together with pretty much no one else and had double prac­tices every day, so everyone is meshing pretty well together,” Dombkowski said. 
The Belles will compete at Hope in Holland, Mich. at 6 
p.m. Friday and at Olivet in Olivet, Mich. at 1 p.m. Saturday. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Tough Olivet team awaits 
rebounds per game. Kammrath and a strong Saint Mary’s defense will be key to stopping Parrell’s second chances in hopes of coming out with a win. 
Along with stopping the Comets in the paint, Henley identified other weaknesses from the team’s recent loss to Hope which the Belles hope to improve. 
“We need to reground and concentrate on cutting down our turnovers, ” Henley said. “On the defen­sive end, we need to find a body to box out on the rebound.” 
Currently tied for third in the MIAA with Adrian, the Belles are looking for a win over Olivet to keep within striking distance of top ­ranked Calvin and Hope as they enter the second round of conference com­petition. 
Saint Mary’s will battle Olivet at 1 p.m. Saturday at Olivet ’s Cutler Event Center. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


Friday, January 15, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, January 15, 2010 
UConn 
continued from page 24 
When the two teams faced off last year, the Irish gave Connecticut one of its stiffest challenges over the course of their winning streak, losing 76-66, one of the Huskies’ smallest margins of victory over the course of their streak. 
The Irish and Huskies are two of just four remaining undefeated teams in Division I. Notre Dame’s lower rank places the team in the unfamil­

iar position of “We will not be underdogs. intimidated. We will “You look at 
not back down. They 
your schedule, 

will hit us and we
and you know, we’ve played will hit right back. We some ranked 
are not going to let
teams but we 

anybody push us
have not really had to play a around.” game where we were the under-
Ashley Barlow 
dog,” McGraw 

Irish captain
said. “It’s kind 
of a nice oppor­tunity for us to look at this game as a game where we see where we are.” 
McGraw said she believes this year’s additions to the ros­ter will be able to make a dif­ference in the game. 
“We have three new play­ers,” McGraw said. “We have Brittany Mallory back, and I think she’s playing great bas­ketball. I think she’s the best sixth man in the Big East. We’ve got Devereaux Peters back … and then we’ve got Skylar [Diggins]. I think the addition of those three players makes us a very different team than we were last year.” 
Though just a freshman, Diggins has been leading the Irish attack this year and aver­ages 13.5 points per game. Overall, Notre Dame has a bal­anced attack, featuring five players scoring more than nine points per game. 
One of the Irish’s main con­cerns Saturday will be to cor­ral Connecticut’s center, Tina Charles. Charles averages 17.9 points per game along with 8.5 rebounds per game. Notre Dame is particularly low on big 
post players this year, leaving the Irish to rely on strong team defense from junior forwards Becca Bruszewski and Peters. 
“Tina Charles this year is even better than she was last year,” McGraw said. 
The Irish are also concerned about the 
Huskies’ transition offense fea­turing junior forward Maya Moore, who leads the Huskies with 19 points per game. 
“We don’t match up with them very well,” McGraw said. “They’ve got a great transition game because they’re so good with rebounds.” 
The Irish players said they refuse to let the Huskies’ impressive record distress them. 
“They get some of their wins off of intimidating people,” senior guard Ashley Barlow said. “No, we will not be intim­
idated. We will not back down.  Cinci  trickster,” Jackson said right  
They will hit us and we will hit  before Luke Harangody  
right back. We are not going to  chucked a ball at Tim  
let anybody push us around.”  continued from page 24  Abromaitis while he was  
The game will be the pre­ doing an on-camera television  
mier of ESPN’s Women’s  victory over then-No. 8 We st interview.  
Basketball College Gameday,  Virginia. The Irish led by 2 0 “It’s a lot of fun on this  
putting added pressure on all  points at the half of that  team. When you’re in college  
the players, but McGraw does  game.  you got to have fun.”  
not want the team feeling any  Irish coach Mike Brey sai d The rest the team got over  
added stress to win with the  he never expects to win con -the break may also aid the  
hype.  ference games by large ma r-defense. Jackson said the rest  
“It’s not a game with any  gins because he has been i n he got was important, but  
pressure to win,” McGraw  the Big East for so long an d Hansbrough missed his sched­ 
said. “Every other game we’ve  knows how difficult the com -ule.  
played we’ve been expecting to  petition is.  “I don’t like the break as  
win. It’s a different feeling  “I think they really defende d much,” he said. “I like getting  
going into the game.”  us well,” he said. “We had  a into a routine. I don’t like  
McGraw still feels the team  hard time getting what we g ot sleeping in ‘til noon.”  
can rise to the occasion and  in the first half.”  Regardless, they’re back in  
snatch a big victory.  The Irish find themselves i n classes and the tough part of  
“The perception is that  a crucial point of the seaso n: the schedule. Although the  
UConn has to play poorly and  playing well but heading int o Bearcats are 10th in the Big  
the other team has to play  the teeth of the Big East  East and are coming off two  
well,” McGraw said. “I would  schedule. Brey said this tea m straight losses, they defeated  
say that’s pretty true. I think  differs from previous squad s Connecticut earlier this sea- 
UConn is an incredibly talented  in that it can continue to  son and play tough inside.  
team, and if they play well  grow.  “I think we want to carry  
they’re going to win. I don’t  “I’ve always felt this team , over the West Virginia game  
think there’s anybody in the  more than many of my mo st plan. Can we not get shredded  
country that would disagree  recent teams, has the abilit y on the backcourt?” Brey said.  
with that. I would say that yes,  to improve all the way up t o “Cincinnati is one of those  
they’ve either got to shoot  the end of February,” he said.  teams that gets to your lane  
poorly or have foul trouble, or  First on the agenda:  and gets on the backboard.  
something has to go wrong for  defense, guard Tory Jackso n We’re going to have to do a  
them, and we’ve got to play  said.  good job of eliminating second  
really well.”  “Any team can score,” h e shots.”  
McGraw sees a light at the  said. “Who can defend 40  Six-foot-9 sophomore Yancy  
end of the tunnel if the Irish  minutes?”  Gates will be a part of that  
can focus on what they do  The Irish allow 70.5 point s presence. He averages 10.7  
best.  per game, just under las t points per game and leads the  
“I think we’ve got to play our  year’s total of 70.7. The Iris h team with 6.6 rebounds per  
game,” McGraw said. “We’ve  finished 21-15 and 8-10 in Bi g game. Guards Lance  
got to play the way that we’ve  East play last season.  Stephenson and Deonta  
been successful.”  One factor that helps th e Vaughn lead the team with  
Notre Dame and Connecticut  Irish mesh, Jackson said, i s 12.4 and 11.3 points per  
tipoff at 9 p.m. Saturday in the  the personalities of the play -game respectively.  
Gampel Pavilion.  ers. Some are subtle, some  Tipoff is at 4 p.m. Saturday.  

Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
are outgoing, but all con­tribute to the atmosphere. “Harangody’s more of a 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


Friday, January 15, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Friday, January 15, 2010 page 24 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
UConn Territory 
Irish face biggest test of season in Huskies 
By JARED JEDICK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will take the court Saturday in Storrs, Conn., for a clash with top-ranked Connecticut to determine who will maintain a perfect record and gain supremacy in the Big East. 
“It’s always a good measur­ing stick when you play UConn, to find out where you are and where you need to be,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 

No. 3 Notre Dame (15-0, 2-0 Big East) and No. 1 Connecticut (15-0, 3-0 Big East) both enter the weekend undefeated. The Huskies are riding a 55-game winning streak, the second longest in NCAA women’s basketball his­tory. The Huskies also hold the longest streak, of 70 straight wins in the 2001-2003 sea­sons. GRACEKENESEY/TheObserver 
Freshman guard Skylar Diggins defends against a Valparaiso player on Dec. 12. Diggins and the No. 3 see UCONN/page 22 Irish travel to Connecticut Saturday to take on the No. 1 Huskies on ESPN’s College Gameday. 

MEN’S SWIMMING 
Spartans, Cardinals cometoND 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
Fresh off of a training trip in Puerto Rico, the Irish men will face a pair of tough tests in back-to-back home dual meets against Michigan State and the No. 16 Louisville Cardinals. 
“These are two very big meets for us this weekend,” Irish coach Tim Welsh told und.com. “This closes out our dual meet season, and by swimming back-to-back on consecutive days, we’re inch­ing closer in our preparations for the Shamrock Invitational and Big East championships. Both of the visiting teams are very competitive so we’ll want to be at our best.” 
The Irish (4-2), who lost at home on Jan. 9 to 
see SWIM/page 20 


HOCKEY 

Team searches for wins in matches with No. 7 Spartans 
ting in a three-way tie for sev-same way,” Jackson said. “I’m Junior defenseman Teddy Ruth “I think it was even more 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
enth in the CCHA, the Irish will not going to change my will also be out of the lineup as severe,” Jackson said. 
Sports Writer 

need to pick up at least a few approach because we’re not as he serves a game disqualifica-“Watching that hit on film, points this weekend against a successful as we’d like to be tion penalty incurred during a there was intent there. What I In a desperate search for very tough Michigan State team from game to game. We’ve got fight against Ferris State’s saw, to me, that was intent. Add wins, the Irish hope they can to have any hope at making a time. Every game is important, Travis Ouellette on Jan. 10. Ruth to the list of our defense-stop looking this weekend. run in the conference. While but we’ve got to get that light Ouellette checked Ruth from men who’ve been hit from 
Notre Dame (9-10-5, 5-7-4-2 first place is out of reach, only switch to turn on somehow. Our behind, earning a major mis-behind this season.” CCHA) will play a home-and-six points separate Notre Dame backs are against the wall, conduct penalty and game dis-The Irish will also be welcom­home against No. 7 Michigan and fourth-place Alaska. especially with the injuries.” qualification penalty in addition ing freshman wing Kyle State (15-6-3, 10-3-3-0 CCHA), Despite the pressure to win Those injuries have hit Notre to a one-game suspension for Palmieri back to the lineup. hosting the Spartans Friday quickly, Irish coach Jeff Jackson Dame hardest on the blue line, the hit. Palmieri returns after helping before heading to East Lansing maintains that his team is doing with freshman Sam Calabrese Jackson said he believes that the U.S. Junior National Team Saturday. just fine. and sophomore Eric Ringel a stiffer punishment was war-
Wracked with injuries and sit-“I approach every game the dealing with lingering injuries. ranted. see PALMIERI/page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish to face more challenges 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame has seen both how successful it can be and how tough the Big East is dur­ing the first four games in the conference season. 
The Irish (14-3, 3-1 Big East) travel to Fifth Third Arena Saturday to face Cincinnati (11­6, 2-3) in a game senior guard Ben Hansbrough said would be as tough as any league game. 
“You go on the road in Cincinnati, that’s one of the toughest games to win in the country right now,” he said. 
The Irish have won two straight games by two points or less, a one-point win over South Florida and a two-point 
see CINCI/page 22 

ND TRACK & FIELD 
Squad looks to begin season well in meet 
By MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
After a long break, the Irish are in the same position as most other students: looking to get back into the swing of things. Today’s meet at the Loftus Sports Center will give the Irish a chance to see how the athletes have been condi­tioning over the past semes­ter. 
In preparation for the scored meet next weekend, Irish coach Joe Piane is going to take a good look at all of his athletes to see what shape they are in heading into Big East competition. 
“We’ve had good workouts the last couple days,” Piane said. “We’re looking to see what kind of shape these men and women are in this Friday.” 
The Irish have standout per­formers across the board including the jumps, throwing events, sprints and distance events. The Irish can count on solid performances from each event heading into Big East tournaments. 
In the pole vault, the Irish took all top five spots in the Blue and Gold Invitational in December. Leading the pack were standouts sophomore Kevin Schipper and his broth­er Matt, a senior. 
see BREAK/page 20 





