the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Mendoza’s Foresight class still evolving 
By KATIE PERALTA 
Assistant News Editor 
The new Foresight in Business and Society course now required of all business students beginning with the Class of 2011 has taken a turn for the better since its inception last fall, students and faculty say. 
Mendoza College of Business Dean Carolyn Woo said the course, which encourages stu­dents to examine and evaluate major issues and trends facing society in the future, was gen­erally not well received at first. 
“The fall semester feedback was not positive,” Woo said. “I would say 75 percent of stu­dents had difficulty with the course.” 
Woo said starting in November, Mendoza faculty took feedback from students and began redesigning the course. One big change was the addition of more sections to reduce class sizes. 
“I would say more students are in favor of the class than in last semester,” Woo said. “We have made improvements and are seeing higher satisfaction.” 
Woo said feedback is always part of the improvement process. 
“Innovation seldom succeeds at the first try,” she said. “In the innovation experience, it is very important to take feed­back.” 
Woo said Mendoza faculty tend to share her sentiment about the course’s improve­ment. 
“They feel that this semester is going a lot better than last semester,” she said. 
Many students shared Woo’s positive outlook on the course’s improvement as well. 
“The course has been changed for the better since its inception last year,” said junior Henry Shine, who took the course first semester and is now a teaching assistant. “The course is adapting to fit both students’ wishes and the demands of 21st century busi­nesspersons in a climate where today’s decisions are influenc­ing life in tomorrow’s world.” 
Junior Richard Roggeveen, who began the spring class “as a skeptic,” said although he had never heard anything posi­tive about the course from fel­
see FORESIGHT/page 4 


Snite exhibits feature Chinese artist 
By AMANDA GRAY 
Assistant News Editor 
It’s not every day you see an artist wielding a Polaroid cam­era bigger than she is. 
Hong Kong artist Caroline Chiu has two exhibitions cur­rently in the Snite Museum of Art, both featuring her photo­graphs taken with at 20 inch by 24 inch Polaroid camera, one of six in the world, a Museum press release stated. 
“Though complex in its cre­ation, the experience is one of simplistic beauty that anyone can appreciate,” said Assistant Public Relations and Marketing Photo courtesy of Gina Costa 
Caroline Chiu’s photograph of goldfish shot up close with a rare see SNITE/page 4 Polaroid camera is on display at the Snite Museum of Art. 



Commons a success so far 
Eddy Street garners business, awaits arrival of new tenants 
By JOSEPH McMAHON 
Associate News Editor 
Eddy Street Commons has continued adding new tenants and expanding since first open­ing in the fall, a University offi­cial said. 
“The University is extremely pleased with both the project and with Kite Realty Group as the developer,” director of Asset Management and Real Estate Development Gregory Hakanen said. “It is meeting all of the goals envisioned by Notre Dame and by our institutional partners and neighborhood residents as well.” 
Hakanen said the Eddy Street Commons project had been suc­cessful in “creating a ‘college town’ where none existed before.” 
He also said it has brought “new residences and commer­cial businesses to a previously deteriorated neighborhood [and created] a bridge between the campus and the surrounding community.” 
Currently, Eddy Street Commons has eight operating tenants — the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, Outpost Sports, Old National Bank, Anytime Fitness, AT&T, Chipotle, Five Guys Burgers and Fries and Hot Box Pizza. 
“I have heard reports that the businesses in Eddy Street 
see EDDY/page 4 




Phone banks call for clean energy 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
In preparation for the upcom­ing 40th anniversary of Earth Day, Repower Indiana will be on campus this week encouraging students to get involved with the movement toward a more envi­ronmentally-conscious America. 
“Repower Indiana is a clean energy campaign, funded and organized by the Alliance for Climate Protection,” Bobbie Stewart, communications direc­tor for Repower Indiana, said. “We want to inform people about the benefits of transitioning to a clean energy economy, as well as advocating for clean energy leg­islation.” 
Repower Indiana will be organizing phone banks where students can call Indiana resi­dents, asking them to support clean energy legislation. Phone banks will be available from 7 
p.m. to 9 p.m. today in room 310 of DeBartolo Hall and Wednesday in the Gold Room of LaFortune Student Center. 
“People will be coming by and learning more about … how they can be involved with clean ener­gy events around Notre Dame,” Stewart said. “During the phone banks, Repower volunteers will be calling community citizens and asking them to help reach out to [Indiana Senators Evan Bayh and Richard Lugar] to pass clean energy legislation.” 
A clean energy bill is expected to reach the Senate floor in the near future, and Stewart said the Indiana senators’ votes in sup­port of this legislation are far from guaranteed. 
“We’re hopeful, it’s really hard to tell ... Lugar is at least focused on conservation,” she said. “There’s some concern amongst the legislators that it will actually cost Indiana money, which we don’t believe is the case.” 
Stewart said she sees student involvement in the campaign and influence over the legislature as especially crucial. 
“Their impact, it’s far, wide and critical. There’s a recent poll of youths asking if they believe the country should be transitioning to a clean energy economy, and the answer was overwhelmingly high,” she said. “Over 70 percent was yes.” 
Notre Dame students, in partic­ular, have an important voice, Stewart said. 
see ENERGY/page 4 



INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Saint Mary’s hosts blood drive page 3  Plithe Spirit preview page 10  Football practice wrap page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Tuesday, April 13, 2010 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Man Uggs 

As a female Notre Dame student, I am subject to a lot of stereotypes. I’m unattractive. I’m driven. I have problems interacting with the oppo­site sex. I’m a clingy girlfriend who has a wholly con­suming desire to be engaged before I graduate. I dress sloppily, preferring to don sweatpants, Uggs and a North Face. 
I will leave judg­ment of my attrac­tiveness, personal-Mary Claire ity and preferred O’Donnell relationship status up to you the Assistant readers. But Scene Editor there’s one thing I won’t deny: I love sweatpants and Uggs. I feel more at home in them than I ever will in a dress and heels or anything else. And I don’t apologize for it. 

I realize that this particular outfit might not be my best chance of attracting male attention, but I’m a female Notre Dame student, so it’s already assumed that my gender relations skills are subpar. 
Girls everywhere, however, are often mocked by males for their love of Uggs and their belief in their fash­ion-savviness. But is there not an equivalent in the male fashion world? Men everywhere will vehemently deny it. However, as my friend Torie astutely pointed out to me recently, there is: Timberlands (“Tims”). 
As I thought about it, the similari­ties between the two types of shoes are shocking, even though just look­ing at them, they seem like two com­pletely different types of shoes. 
One, their original use has more or less been thrown out the window. Uggs were originally designed for surfers in Australia to keep their feet warm after hours spent in the surf. Timberlands, with their steel toes, were made for construction workers and landscapers to protect their feet from swinging hammers and vicious rototillers. 
Personally, I have never been surf­ing, and I could point out many peo­ple at Notre Dame wearing Timberlands who have probably never done a day’s work in construc­tion. 
Two, it’s all in the name brand. People spend exponentially more money to buy that pair of Uggs than they would buying a similar pair of Emus, just like they do for Timberlands. 
Third, and one of my favorite aspects of Uggs, no tying required! You just slip your feet into your Ugg boot of choice and you are ready to go. And unless you’re using your Timberlands for construction work, there’s no need to tie up those laces. It’s often even preferred not to. 
I am not trying to harp on anyone’s footwear choices because I’m no fashionista myself, and I’ll never claim to be. I am just pointing out that behind every questionable female fashion trend, you can proba­bly find a similar male one. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT S OULD T E NEXT T EME AT LEGENDS BE? 







Colin Patience  Elizabeth Jen  Mark Flanagan  Sarah Hickam  Sean Keeley  
freshman  freshman  senior  freshman  freshman  
Keough  Welsh Family  Keough  Welsh Family  Keough  
“Ska, because  “Snuggie  “Lumberjack  “Jersey Shore  “Super Smash  
of the phat  Night.”  night to  and Snooki  Brothers,  
beats!”  celebrate  Night!”  because I won  
spring!”  4th place in the  

tournament!” 


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

GRACE KENESEY/The Observer Freshman Brendan Dougherty of the Goofy Hat Gang plays tight defense and blocks a shot put up by a member of The Transfers in a Bookstore Basketball game Monday. 



OFFBEAT 
Iowan ready for prom in gum wrapper dress 
GARNER, Iowa — An Iowa teen is all bubbly over her one-of-a-kind high school prom dress she made out of gum wrappers. Elizabeth Rasmuson made her dress — and matching vest for her date — out of blue and white wrappers from Wrigley's “5 gum.” The high school junior says she got the idea after hear­ing about someone making a dress out of duct tape. 
She and her boyfriend began collecting gum wrappers last August. Rasmuson says she quit counting after 200. 
Since the wrappers break easily, Rasmuson finished her dress with a vinyl top coat. 
Alleged drunk driver hits judge he faced in 1998 
ROCKVILLE, Md. — A man has been charged with driving drunk and hit­ting the car of a retired Maryland judge who once spared him jail time in previous drunk driving case. The suspect, 45, was scheduled to be in court Wednesday to face trial on eight charges related to the August crash where he hit a car being driven by retired Montgomery County District Judge Edwin Collier. Collier, 86, and his wife Ellen Collier, 82, were both injured in the crash. 
Collier presided over a case in 1998 in which police charged the man with drunk driving after an officer saw his car idling in a parking lot and gave him a sobriety test. He pleaded guilty in that case, and Collier spared him jail time, even though the man had been arrested on drunk driving charges twice in three months. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Wednesday Thursday 




IN BRIEF 
The Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies will be hosting a workshop titled “Innovations in the Study of Mass Violations of Human Rights” today from 9 a.m. to 
12:30 p.m. The event will take place in rooms 210-214 of McKenna Hall. 
The exhibition “108 Thoughts on Spirituality” will be held today from 10 a.m. until 4 p.m. The exhibit will take place in the Snite Museum of Art. The event is free and open to the public. 
The English Department will host a series of lectures titled “‘Howards End’ and Spiritual Democracy” today at 4:30 p.m. The lectures will be held in rooms 100-104 of McKenna Hall. 
“Homosexuality Under the Dome: Past Struggles and Present Solutions,” a panel dis­cussion and seminar, will be held tonight at 7 p.m. The event will be held in Carey Audiorium of Hesburgh Library. The event is free and open to all students, staff and faculty. 
The third installment of the Last Lecture Series will be held today at 7:30 p.m. The lecture features Professor James McAdams of the political science department and will be held in the Coleman Morris Lounge. 
“Blithe Spirit,” a play by Noel Coward, will be presented tonight at 7:30 p.m. The production will be held in Decio Mainstage Theatre of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The event is ticketed. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
FRiday SAturday 

Atlanta 80 / 51 Boston 58 / 38 Chicago 70 / 49 Denver 62 / 39 Houston 79 / 61 Los Angeles 66 / 50 Minneapolis 70 / 53 New York 58 / 42 Philadelphia 56 / 41 Phoenix 77 / 57 Seattle 56 / 44 St. Louis 85 / 56 Tampa 83 / 65 Washington 62 / 44 
Tuesday, April 13, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 


SMC blood drive 
Intellectual environment examined 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Empty seats at lectures and a lack of academic conversation in residence halls spurred discussion in Campus Life Council (CLC) Monday 
The Council discussed possibili­ties for greater engagement out­side the classroom and the intel­lectual environment on campus. 
“We are an extremely intelligent campus,” former student body president Grant Schmidt said. “We are very passionate about our studies. How do we expand on that?” 
Members of CLC debated how to bring a more intellectual environ­ment to campus life outside of the classroom that would still preserve Notre Dame’s distinct identity. 
“We are getting a sense from juniors and seniors that they are just now realizing that they should be having friendships with their professors,” former student body vice president Cynthia Weber said. 
Creating more peer academic involvement during freshmen ori­entation would be a method to introduce this intellectual environ­ment to students immediately, she said. 
Weber suggested that these con­versations should could build an “opportunity to pursue service through scholarship” for students at Notre Dame who are looking towards graduate education. 
Council members steered away from specifically incorporating academic life in the residence halls around campus by holding more classes in dorm settings. 
“Looking at the residential sys­tem as a major piece of the puzzle in stimulating the intellectual life on campus is like trying to put out a fire with a water gun,” Sorin Hall rector Fr. Jim King said. 
The challenge is making the con­nection between the residence life and the culture of academia on campus, he said. 
Making academic events appeal­ing to students is critical to devel­oping an intellectual environment, members said. The Council identi­fied a lack of interest as a problem rather than a lack of opportunities. 
“The value of a forum or of an event like the God Debate is that those stimulate discussion and are not just lectures,” Judicial Council president Ian Secviar said. 
Broadcasting important events through television and scheduling programs at more convenient times for students were proposed to engage more of the campus community. 
Council members targeted a combination of over-programming and a lack of advertising as the source of low attendance for lec­tures on campus. 
“It is a shame that we have so much at hand and so little being taken advantage of,” student rep­resentative John DeLacio said. “It’s frustrating.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at 
mdoyle11@nd.edu 



sees large turnout 

were able to continue to sign up throughout the drive, and walk-ins were also accepted. 
“It is important to donate blood because there is always a need for it in the communi­ty,” Critchlow said. “Blood cannot be manufactured, so the only way to fulfill the need for it is through volunteer donations.” 
Critchlow said the actual blood donation takes less than 10 to 12 minutes on average. Additionally, the entire blood donation process takes less than one hour. 
Sophomore Katie Cireski donated blood Monday to help fill a need. 
“There’s a need for blood and there are so many people that are eligible that don’t donate, so I figured since I am eligible to donate, I might as well,” sophomore Katie Ciresi said. “I think it’s something important to do and I think everyone should do it at least once in their life, if not more.” 
Junior Grace Sadowski also said she believes it is impor­tant to donate blood — so important that she has been a donor about 15 times. 
“I’ve always given it,” she said. “My little sister was pre­mature and people that gave blood saved her life so I always do.” 
Sadowski said she thinks there is a higher need than ever before for blood dona­tions and encouraged others to donate. 
“I personally can’t save peo­ple’s lives, so I feel like this is helping as much as I can,” she said. “I think more people should do it and it’s not as scary as everyone thinks. Families that do have blood donated to them are really appreciative.” 
According to a press release form the American Red Cross, the blood drive held Monday was parte of the “Stave a Vampire. Donate Blood” cam­paign. 
As part of the campaign, two $50 shopping sprees were given away in a drawing. Those who donated blood were entered. 
In addition to the blood drive held Monday, other drives for the campaign will be held in the area. On April 26 and April 27, blood drives will be held in 315 LaFortune Student Center at Notre Dame. 
Three $50 shopping sprees will be given away each day during the blood drives held at the University. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 



By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 

As a way of helping meet the American Red Cross’s need for blood donations, Saint Mary’s College hosted a blood drive Monday. 
“Believe it or not, there is always a need for blood,” Olivia Critchlow, assistant director of the Office for Civic and Social Engagement, said. “We feel that it’s part of one’s civic duty to donate if possi­ble.” 
The drive was held in the College’s Student Center Lounge from noon to 6 p.m., and was one of four blood drives the College offers each academic year. 
At Monday’s drive, more than 90 people had signed up to donate blood, Critchlow said. She also said students 
page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 13, 2010 


College explores school inequality 
By CAROLYNN SMITH 
News Writer 
South Bend school repre­sentatives, from an elemen­tary to university level, dis­cussed how inequalities in education negatively affect students in a lecture at Saint Mary’s College Monday night. 
The lecture, titled “Equality and Education: The Faces and Facts,” began with Notre Dame professor Maria McKenna, who spoke about the problems of poverty and the education system in the United States today. 
“There are 73 million chil­dren under the age of 17 in this country. Forty-one per­cent live in low-income fami­lies and 19 percent live in poor families,” McKenna said. 
A poor family lives on an income of $22,000 a year, she said. 
“Three out of five kids are living in conditions where their food is not secure from day to day, their housing is questionable and positive interactions in their neigh­borhoods do not exist, ” McKenna said. 
McKenna said in order to make a change, more people need to care about the effects of poverty. 
“I think the future of this country rides on the fact that we need to care enough about the child and their edu­cation for them to become productive citizens. But we are failing at that. Even though there are many peo­ple out there trying very hard to not fail, we are,” McKenna said. 
Yolanda Turner-Smith, president of Xavier School of Excellence in South Bend, spoke about charter schools. 
“Charter schools in Indiana, as defined by the law, need to be unique, different and have high accountability,” Turner-Smith said. “This allows teachers to use different methods to reach children and teach them in different ways that they can under ­stand.” 
Turner-Smith said many of the children who attend char­ter schools are not at their appropriate grade level. There are many children who are in the fifth grade but may be reading at a third grade level, she said. 
“Part of that accountability means that we have to bring students up to their level in 
one or two year,” she said.”This allows for teachers to be able to teach the chil­dren in different ways.” 
She also said charter schools have smaller class sizes and are funded by tax dollars. If a charter school is forced to close, it is usually due to financial issues, she said. 
Nancy Jacobson-Reighter, of the Coquillard Primary Center in South Bend, said Title I schools are govern­ment funded, which leads to an unequal distribution of funds between the schools. 
For students suffering from poverty, it affects every aspect of that student’s life, she said. 
“Many of our students have issues with nutrition and health care. They have never seen a dentist. They have never had their eyes checked. They have never been taught about nutrition,” Jacobson-Reighter said. “This is because their parents do not have the means to provide these things.” 
Olivia Critchlow, assistant director of the Office for Civic and Social Engagement, said there is a need to inform 
other people about these inequalities, and students can fill that need. 
“Educational inequality is not something that a small group of people can change. You need to tell other people and create a large group, and that will lead to real change,” Critchlow said. 
The event was sponsored by the Justice Education Department, the College Academy of Tutoring Program and The Katharine Terry Dooley Fund in Peace and 
Contact Carolynn Smith at csmith02@saintmarys.edu 



Eddy 
continued from page 1 
Commons are pleased with their results in the early going, and things will only improve from here as more businesses open, giving consumers more reasons to be here,” Hakanen said. “We are very encouraged by the early results and look forward to contin­ued growth.” 
Patrick Kohn, one of the sales associates at Outpost Sports, said business had been “steady” since the store opened in October, but also added he would like to see more Notre Dame students in the store. 
“We need to get the Notre Dame kids knowing we’re here,” he said. “The clothes are mostly modeled towards college kids.” 
Four more tenants — Kildare’s Irish Pub, Nicholas J. Salon and Spa, Camellia Cosmetics and an upscale diner called The Mark — are signed on and are expected to open within the next few months. 
An 119-room, limited-service Fairfield Inn and Suites is also set to open in June, ahead of the orig­inally scheduled date. 
Hakanen said Kite Realty Group did a “wonderful job” of finding tenants during difficult economic times. 
“This has been the most serious recession since the Depression, and there is no question that it has slowed certain aspects of the proj­ect,” he said. “Nevertheless, it is a testament to both the fundamen­tals of the project and to Kite Realty Group that the project has moved forward. 
“We are confident that the proj­ect will proceed as originally planned, although on a somewhat slower schedule than anticipated.” 
Aspects of the project that will be delayed include the Legends Row condominiums and a full-service hotel. The full-service hotel will be in addition to the Fairfield Inn and Suites and will be open year-round. 
“The full-service hotel has been delayed by the slowdown in the economy, which has virtually elim­inated development of new full-service hotels country-wide,” Hakanen said. “However, this remains a premier site for such a facility, and we are confident that Kite Realty Group will be able to commence the hotel as soon as economic conditions allow.” 
Hakanen also said the leasing of The Foundry apartments, which are owned and managed by Buckingham Companies, has “gone very well.” 
The West Building opened in August and is currently at 90-per­cent capacity, while the North Building will open on May 1 and already has 55 percent of resi­dents committed. 
The Foundry has largely been populated by local professionals rather than students, and Hakanen said the average age of the tenants is 38 years. 
“Buckingham made the commit­ment from the beginning that The Foundry would be a professional residential community versus stu­dent housing, and the design, amenities, services, management policies and pricing reflect this,” 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 



Foresight 
continued from page 1 

low students, he was pleased with the course and the mate­rial it presented. 
“As the professors respond to continual student feedback and continue to change course design, I believe that the course does have a place in the business school, at the very least to educate us stu­dents on larger problems and issues in the world and how business can act to help relieve them,” he said. 
The course, conceived three years ago, is the brainchild of Woo and professor of account­ancy Thomas Frecka. 
“For about 30 years I have been concerned that we don’t train our students to look ahead,” said Woo, who began teaching in the business school in 1976. 
The course was then piloted over the course of three semesters and was offered to self-selected classes of about 10 students. 
Implementation from pilot to requirement was not easy, but it was necessary, Woo said. 
“The types of skills acquired 

Energy 
continued from page 1 

“Their vote and their voice matter,” she said. “It’s time to stand up and exercise that voice for an issue that will be affect­ing you today and tomorrow.” 
Stewart said Notre Dame stu­dents should be invested in cli­mate protection for the same reasons as other Americans, but that students have even more at stake as members of the younger generation. 
“Just like anyone else, in the state, in the country, they stand to benefit from jobs that would receive funding from a clean energy initiative,” Stewart said. “The most important reason to 

Snite 
continued from page 1 

Director for the Museum Michelle Nguyen, a senior. 
Chiu’s two exhibitions are similar only in the artist’s name. 
“Polaroids as Chinese Ink Painting” are selections taken from Chiu’s larger series “Dreaming: A Chinese Wunderkammer,” a Museum press release stated. The selec­tions feature goldfish as the main photographic subject. 
“She creates visual poetry with her photographs of gold­fish, as her style mimics that of Chinese ink painting,” Nguyen said. “The use of Polaroid film, the large format camera for magnification and steady patience that goes into captur­ing each frame is apparent. 
“She achieves her goal of making her photographs look so much like the skillful brush­strokes of Chinese art.” 
Film is no longer made for the camera she uses, making her images extremely rare and the exhibit into a tribute for Polaroid photography, Nguyen said. 
Within the exhibit will also be a fish tank containing the same breed of fish photographed. 
“The change in scale between the actual aquarium and the depiction of the gallery as an enormous aquarium will be enhanced by sounds of splash-in the class are necessary,” she said. “We also didn’t want to create two tiers of students [within the business school] … those who have taken the course and those who clearly haven’t.” 
Woo said the course, which is concluded with a large-group research project com­prising 40 percent of the stu­dent’s grade, aims to achieve four important goals. 
“It helps students under­stand future trends and then understand the implications of trends among social, political and economic factions,” she said. “[It also teaches stu­dents] the methodology people use for generating future trends and assess in greater depth the issues related to these trends.” 
The course, Woo said, is dis­tinct to Notre Dame. 
“The course is very unique because it is not offered at other schools,” Woo said. “This is one of the boldest things we’ve ever done.” 
Woo said the business facul­ty will continue to take feed­back and retool the course this summer. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 
transition is for a clean planet for future generations to come.” 
“One reason students are really motivated is the question of what’s going to be left for them in 30 or 40 years,” she said. 
Stewart said it is important for students not to underesti­mate the difference they can make in the push for a cleaner America. She considers the role of Indiana residents, especially students, central to ensuring for a clean energy bill to get passed by the Senate. 
“Again, I’d say we’re hopeful, but a lot of it depends on Hoosier engagement, people like Notre Dame students.” 

Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
ing water — so the viewers might imagine themselves swimming among the goldfish,” Chiu said in a press release. “I hope to create dissonances of scale by creating conflicting per­ceptions of looking into the actu­al aquarium while simultane­ously feeling contained within a larger aquarium.” 
Chiu’s other installation, titled “108 Thoughts on Spirituality,” is an interactive project asking the audience to respond to questions on spirituality. 
The installation will have pro­jected images of flames, photo­graphs of flames, music from various sacred traditions, sacred smells, a meditation space and an opportunity for viewers to write or draw on Chiu’s photographs in response. 
“Being an active participant in an installation that is created specifically with Notre Dame in mind will be a wonderful expe­rience, especially at a school where spirituality is ever pres­ent,” Nguyen said. 
Participants will be given a Chiu photograph in gratitude for their contributions, Nguyen said. 
“Polaroids as Chinese Ink Painting” will run until April 25, while “108 Thoughts on Spirituality” will run until April 
16. Chiu will speak during a reception from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. Thursday. 

Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 




World & Nation 
Tuesday, April 13, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

U.S. troops kill 4 Aghans on bus 
KANDAHAR, Afghanistan — Afghans burned tires and chanted “Death to America” after U.S. troops fired Monday on a civilian bus near Kandahar, killing four people and wounding more than a dozen. Afghanistan’s president accused NATO of violating its commitment to safeguard civilian lives. 
The attack enraged Afghan officials and the public in Kandahar, the Taliban’s birthplace, and dealt a blow to U.S. and NATO efforts to win popular support for a coming offensive to drive the insurgents from the biggest city in the south. NATO expressed regret for the loss of civilian lives and said it was investigating. 

Bishops must report sex abuse 
VATICAN CITY — The Vatican on Monday responded to allegations it long concealed clerical sex abuse by making it clear for the first time that bishops and clerics worldwide should report such crimes to police if they are required to by law. 
The policy, spelled out in a guide for laymen and posted on the Vatican’s Web site, matches the policy worked out by U.S. bishops after an explosion of sex abuse cases in 2002. 
Unlike the American norms, however, the Vatican guide contains no call for “zero toler­ance” for priests who rape and molest children, and victims immediately criticized it as insuffi­cient. 
The Vatican insists it has long been the Catholic Church’s policy for bishops, like all Christians, to obey civil reporting laws. But such an explicit pol­icy had never been spelled out — until Monday. 


NATIONAL NEWS 

Census director cites high participation 
WASHINGTON — Census Bureau director Robert Groves said Monday he is heartened by the high level of participation so far in the 2010 census, with no indications that large numbers of conservatives were only partially filling out the form or boycotting the govern­ment count. 
“We can’t find empirical support for that,” Groves said, regarding evidence of lower participation among conservatives. He noted that perhaps 1 or 2 percent of the 10-ques­tion forms returned so far have been incom­plete, which is what officials previously anticipated. 
Groves’ comments, which came at a news conference to urge Americans to mail back their census forms by Friday, seemed to tamp down anecdotal reports in recent weeks that anti-government sentiment might spur a mass boycott among conservatives who consider the census form to be over­reaching. 

Calif. gay marriage ban repeal fails 
SAN FRANCISCO — Gay rights activists say they have failed to qualify a measure that would repeal California’s same-sex marriage ban for the November ballot. 
Restore Equality 2010 chairman Sean Bohac says the volunteer-run group fell short of gath­ering the nearly 695,000 signatures needed to put the initiative before voters. Monday was the deadline for submitting the signatures to the Secretary of State’s Office. 
Bohac says Restore Equality’s failed effort was undermined by the decision of more established gay rights groups not to participate in the cam­paign. 


LOCAL NEWS 

Slain woman sought protection 
INDIANAPOLIS — A judge issued an order of protection for a 28-year-old woman against her ex-boyfriend on the day she was found stabbed to death along with her mother and another per­son, police said Monday. 
Jeremy Blanchard, 30, has not been charged but has been named a suspect in the killing of his ex-girlfriend, Jessica Berg, 28; her mother Rebecca Berg, 57; and her mother ’s boyfriend, David McPike, 62. The three were found stabbed to death in McPike’s home in Kokomo on Friday. 



U.S., China strategize on Iran 
Obama, Chinese President Hu Jintao discuss nuclear security at summit 
Associated Press  
WASHINGTON — Amid  
a sudden upswing in rela­ 
tions, President Barack  
Obama and Chinese  
President Hu Jintao sought  
common ground Monday  
on Iran, agreeing that a  
set of potential sanctions  
should make clear to Iran  
the cost of continued  
nuclear defiance, a White  
House official said.  
The two leaders, meeting  
on the sidelines of a U.S.­ 
hosted summit on nuclear  
proliferation, also dis- 
cussed a currency dispute  
between the two nations  
but without announcing  
specific progress toward  
resolving it.  
White House national  
security aide Jeff Bader  
said Iran was a major  
topic at the 90-minute ses­ 
sion between Obama and  
his Chinese counterpart.  
“I’d just say that the presi­ 
dent in the meeting made  
clear the sense of urgency,  
and the Chinese made  
clear that they are pre­ 
pared to work with us,”  
Bader said. He called it  
another sign of interna­ 
tional unity on Iran.  
The upbeat assessment AP  
reflected a recent warming President Barack Obama greets Chinese President Hu Jintao during the official arrivals for  
of U.S.-Chinese diplomatic the Nuclear Security Summit in Washington Monday.  
ties, but the meeting pro­ 
duced no breakthroughs.  about a specific commit- have expressed reserva- The White House official  
Chinese spokesman Ma  ment. They started work­ tions with some of the pro- called it a “positive and  
Zhaoxu did not mention  ing on language at the  posals issued by the United  constructive” meeting, “a  
sanctions in a statement  U.N. last week.  States.  meeting without talking  
on Hu’s meeting with  Bader said Hu and  On the currency dispute,  points” involving leaders  
Obama.  Obama instructed their  Bader said Obama reiter­ who are “familiar and  
Ma said China hopes all  aides to work with the  ated his view that there  comfortable with each  
parties will step up diplo­ group of nations directly  needs to be “a more mar- other.”  
matic efforts and seek  overseeing the Iranian  ket-oriented exchange  He said the two leaders  
ways to resolve the Iranian  nuclear issue and with  rate.”  did break for a moment of  
nuclear issue through  U.N. officials to come up  U.S. manufacturers  silence to remember the  
negotiations.  with a sanctions resolu­ claim China keeps its cur- deaths of 29 U.S. miners in  
“China and the United  tion. “The resolution will  rency pegged to the dollar  the worst U.S. coal mining  
States share the same  make clear the costs of  to make its exports cheap- disaster since 1970.  
overall goal on the Iranian  pursuing a nuclear pro- er. And Obama has pub- The meeting came dur­ 
nuclear issue,” the Chinese  gram that violates Iran’s  licly called on China to let  ing a recent thaw in diplo­ 
statement said.  obligations and responsi­ its currency rise.  matic exchanges between  
The U.S. description of  bilities,” he said.  Analysts suggest China  the two countries after a  
the meeting echoed recent  China — as do the United  doesn’t want to be seen as  period of rising tensions  
comments from Secretary  States, Russia, Britain and  bowing to U.S. pressure.  aggravated by China’s  
of State Hillary Rodham  France — holds veto  Still, there have been  rigid currency policies,  
Clinton, U.N. Ambassador  power on the U.N. Security  recent signs that China is  U.S. arms sales to Taiwan,  
Susan Rice and others that  Council. So it could block  moving on its own toward  Obama’s meeting with the  
the Chinese are now will- any sanctions proposal it  allowing its currency to  Dalai Lama at the White  
ing to talk turkey on sanc­ does not like. In the past,  rise with market condi- House and U.S. tariffs on  
tions — although nothing  both China and Russia  tions.  Chinese tires.  

POLAND 



Investigators: human error caused crash 
attend a memorial in the nearby instead of diverting to Minsk or 
Associated Press 

Katyn forest for thousands of Polish Moscow, in part to avoid missing the 
WARSAW — Russian investigators military officers executed 70 years ceremonies. suggested human error may have ago by Josef Stalin’s secret police. Polish Prosecutor General Andrzej been to blame in the plane crash that The pilot had been warned of bad Seremet said Polish investigators killed the Polish president and 95 oth-weather in Smolensk, and was talked to the flight controller and ers, saying Monday there were no advised by traffic controllers to land flight supervisor and “concluded that technical problems with the Soviet-elsewhere — which would have there were no conditions for landing.” made plane. delayed the Katyn observances. “The tower was advising against the 
The Tu-154 went down Saturday He was identified as Capt. landing,” Seremet said. while trying to land in dense fog near Arkadiusz Protasiuk, 36, and the co-The plane was equipped with an a Smolensk airport in western Russia. pilot as Maj. Robert Grzywna, 36. instrument landing system, or ILS, All aboard were killed, including Also in the cockpit were Ensign said Col. Wieslaw Grzegorzewski of President Lech Kaczynski and dozens Andrzej Michalak, 36, and Lt. Artur the Polish Defense Ministry. of Polish political, military and reli-Zietek, 31. “I can confirm the pilots were gious leaders. In Warsaw, there was concern the preparing for landing without the ILS 
They had been traveling in the pilots may have been asked by some-system,” he said. “The airport didn’t Polish government-owned plane to one in the plane to land at Smolensk have the ILS system.” 
page 6 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, April 13, 2010 


Mine blast probe awaits recovery of final bodies 

Associated Press 
SEATTLE — Whale watchers in Puget Sound caught a rare and dramatic sight from their tourist boat: a pod of orcas speeding by in attack mode and then ramming a gray whale under water. 
After the gray whale dove beneath the water Sunday, the pod of attacking transient killer whales followed suit. 
“Everything was quiet for a minute,” said Monte Hughes, captain of the Anacortes-based Mystic Sea Charters. “Then the water went into a frenzy. ... You could see the movements of the gray whale being hit under­neath the water.” 
A short time later the gray whale surfaced, belly up, and jerked upward two or three times as it was being hit from below, he said. The killer whales then took off, and the gray whale floundered for a time, but eventually swam toward shallow waters. 
Howard Garrett, director of the Orca Network, said there have been three other reports of transient orcas attacking gray whales in Puget Sound. The first sighting was March 22. 
Garrett said the gray whale was spotted Monday swimming with other gray whales and appeared to be OK. The whale, a male named “Patch,” has fre­quented the Puget Sound for the past 19 years, he said. 
Transient orcas are different from the three pods of endan­gered Puget Sound orcas that feed on salmon. These whales typically eat marine mammals such as sea lions, porpoises, dolphins and gray whales. 
Robin Baird, a marine biolo­gist with the Olympia, Wash.­based Cascadia Research Collective, said it’s not unusual for transients to attack gray whales but most of the attacks have occurred in California or Alaska, in areas where the grays are particularly vulnera­ble. 

“I have not heard of them attacking grays in Puget Sound before,” Baird said in an e-mail from Hawaii, where he was doing field work. 
Whale observers said they’re not sure why the attacks hap­pened. 
“It doesn’t fit the usual text­book wildlife behavior,” Garrett said. “They usually pass by each other and pay no mind.” 
Hughes said he hasn’t seen anything like the attack during his 20 years operating whale-watching tours. 
Noela Graham, a Whidbey Island resident, watched the attack with about 30 other pas­sengers aboard the Mystic Sea and recalled it being “extraordi­nary to witness something that 


Associated Press 
CHARLESTON, W. Va. — Federal investigators arrived Monday at the West Virginia mine where 29 men died in an explosion last week to begin piecing together what caused the worst U.S. coal mining dis­aster since 1970. 
Thirty miles to the north, hundreds of mourners includ­ing the governor observed a moment of silence at the state Capitol, during a wreath-lay­ing ceremony at the foot of a statue honoring the state’s miners. Karen Barker was among scores of state workers who attended. 
“My dad was a miner and my grandfather was a miner. I have no idea how these people feel about losing their family member, but I can imagine,” said Barker, 46, of Charleston. 
The team of inspectors at the Upper Big Branch mine weren’t heading underground until searchers removed all the bodies from the mine. The team from the Mine Safety and Health Administration briefed Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis and MSHA director Joe Main at the mine. 
The last bodies were expect­ed to be taken out Monday, state mine office spokes­woman Jama Jarrett said. Recovery efforts had been stalled in previous days by volatile gases, but teams entered after the tunnels were ventilated. 
She said the crews late Monday were near where the bodies are located. 
The state panel that writes mining safety rules and typi­cally reviews inspectors’ reports after the investiga­tions are complete said it would like to join the investi­gators underground this time. 
Richmond, Va.-based Massey has been under scrutiny for a string of safety violations at the mine, though CEO Don Blankenship has defended the company’s record and disput­ed accusations that he puts profits ahead of safety. 
Authorities have said high methane levels may have played a role in the disaster. Massey has been repeatedly cited and fined for problems with the system that vents methane and for allowing combustible dust to build up. 
Hours after the blast, the company flew Gov. Joe Manchin back from a Florida vacation on one of its planes, Manchin said. The governor’s top lawyer told him the use of the company’s plane was acceptable because it was an emergency and a flight on a state plane couldn’t immedi­ately be arranged. 
New York state’s comptroller and a pension fund adviser called for Blankenship’s resig­nation immediately as chair­man of Massey’s board. 
Comptroller Thomas DiNapoli, trustee of a retire­ment fund holding more than 300,000 shares of Massey stock worth $14 million, said the company failed to ade­quately manage risks at the West Virginia mine where 29 died after an explosion. 
A similar challenge came in a letter to Massey from William Patterson, executive director of the Washington, D.C.-based CtW Investment Group, which works with union pension funds. 
Mourning continued exactly a week after the explosion, with the ceremony at the state Capitol and a moment of silence at 3:30 p.m. President Barack Obama ordered all 
U.S. flags in the state flown at half-staff until sunset Sunday. 
Virginia Gov. Bob McDonnell also asked people in his state to observe the moment of silence. He restored $750,000 in funding for mine safety inspections in Virginia to the state’s strained budget, saying the tragedy in West Virginia was a wakeup call. 
Beneath a sunny sky, several hundred people held hands and prayed aloud during the ceremony. Four black -rib ­boned wreaths were placed at the memorial, as more than a dozen family members of those killed looked on. The largest bore white roses for each miner killed, and two yellow roses for the injured. Twenty-nine yellow helmets were lined up in front of the statue, a black ribbon on each. 
A bell rang 29 times for each of the fallen miners. During a moment of silence that followed, sobs could be heard both from the family and the crowd thronged around them with heads bowed. 
“Our goal is to have the safest workplace in America,” Manchin said. “Someone who’s willing to work hard and put everything on the line to provide for themselves and their family...should expect to come home safely.” 
Solis attended the ceremony and echoed that sentiment, while offering condolences to the family from President Barack Obama. 
“No miner should ever lose his life in order to provide for his family,” Solis said. “I will do everything in my power to ensure that we prevent these kinds of tragedies.” 


Orcas seen in rare attack 
you see on a National Geographic Channel. 
After the first group of seven orcas attacked the gray whale and left, another pair of orcas approached the gray whale. 
Hughes said he positioned the boat near the gray whale to deter another attack. 
“I think we were able to deter that hopefully,” he said, noting that the whale got its breath and very slowly started heading for the beach. 
Erick Peirson, a captain with Puget Sound Express, witnessed another encounter while host­ing 30 passengers on a whale-watching tour March 30. He said four transient orcas circled three gray whales not far from the boat. One male transient rubbed up against a gray whale, and there was a lot of splashing before the orcas took off. 
“It happened real fast,” he said. “It was a real brief touch­and-go.” 


The Observer 


Business

Tuesday, April 13, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 



IN BRIEF 

Microsoft unveils new cell phones 
SAN FRANCISCO — Microsoft Corp. unveiled two cell phones Monday that are meant for social networking-savvy teens and twenty-somethings, in an attempt to revitalize its mobile business and regain ground on iPhones and BlackBerrys. 
Microsoft said its new touch-screen phones 
— a short, square-shaped handset called Kin One and a longer, more rectangular one called Kin Two — will be sold exclusively in the U.S. by Verizon Wireless. They are being made by Sharp Corp., which has produced Sidekick cell phones, whose software comes from Microsoft-owned Danger Inc. 
In the past, Microsoft has mostly sold its mobile software to other companies to put it on phones they make. This will be the case with its recently announced Windows Phone 7 Series software, which is expected to be on handsets by the holidays. The Kin phones mark a departure, as Microsoft has sway over the creation of their software and hardware. 
Verizon said it will start selling the Kin phones online in early May and in stores shortly thereafter. 

China’s oil shopping spree continues 
NEW YORK — China’s not done shopping the globe for oil. 
On Monday, a Beijing-backed oil producer announced the country’s largest deal yet in North America, paying ConocoPhillips $4.65 billion for its minority stake in a Canadian oil sands project. 
Oil is a primary target for China, given the country’s huge appetite for energy. The agree­ment with ConocoPhillips continues a trend of aggressive buying by the Chinese for energy resources, said Fadel Gheit, an analyst with Oppenheimer & Co. 
For ConocoPhillips, the sale of its 9.03 percent stake to Sinopec, which is the international divi­sion of China Petroleum & Chemical Corp., is part of its plans to sell about $10 billion in assets by 2011. The company is paring back an expan­sion undertaken in the middle of last decade. 
As China’s economy grows, the country has expanded its reach around the globe for raw materials. China already passed the U.S. as the largest market for new cars. Last month, sales of passenger jumped 63 percent in China from a year earlier. 



Dow closes above 11,000 points 
Stocks reach landmark level for the first time since start of financial crisis 
Associated Press  
NEW YORK — The Dow  
Jones industrial average  
closed above 11,000 for  
the first time in a year and  
a half on investors’ rising  
hopes about the economy.  
The Dow edged up about  
9 points Monday to almost  
11,006. The Standard &  
Poor’s 500 index came  
within a point of hitting its  
own milestone of 1,200  
during trading but closed  
just short of that mark.  
Analysts said the Dow’s  
move above 11,000 could  
provide a psychological  
boost and perhaps draw  
more investors to the mar­ 
ket.  
“There is a huge stock­ 
pile of cash on the sidelines  
earning virtually nothing,”  
said Jack Ablin, chief  
investment officer at  
Harris Private Bank in  
Chicago. “Maybe this can  
help shake a few people  
into the market.”  
Stocks have been rising  
this year on growing  
expectations that the econ­ 
omy will shake off job mar­ 
ket weakness and housing  
problems. A test of  
whether the Dow can hold  
the 11,000 mark will come AP  
in the next three weeks Traders work on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange Monday, when the Dow Jones  
when companies report Industrial Average closed above 11,000 for the first time in a year and a half.  
earnings. Investors also  
will want to see whether  Investors have been con- buying DynCorp  below the threshold.  
the government’s next  cerned that mounting debt  International, a provider of  The Dow has posted six  
employment report, due in  in Greece and other  support services to U.S.  straight weekly advances,  
early May, shows that  European nations includ­ national security opera- its longest winning streak  
employers added jobs in  ing Spain and Portugal  tions, for $1 billion.  in a year. The index has  
April as they did during  would stunt a global recov- The reports on Greece  added 1,000 points in two  
March.  ery.  and the corporate buyouts  months. The index’s only  
On Monday, a loan agree­ “This is clearly a positive  raised expectations that  close below 10,000 this  
ment for Greece allowed  development that the EU is  the economy is recovering.  year came on Feb. 8. Since  
U.S. investors to focus on  identifying and dealing  Hopes of a rebound have  then, it’s up 11 percent.  
domestic economic and  with what has really been  been driving the stock  It has risen 68.1 percent  
corporate news, including  it’s first real challenge,”  market higher for 13  since hitting a 12-year low  
announcements of two big  said Alan Gayle, senior  months. The advance since  in March last year though  
deals.  investment strategist for  February has been more  it is still down 22.3 percent  
European Union leaders  RidgeWorth Investments.  incremental but the gains  from its peak or 14,164.53  
agreed over the weekend  Meanwhile, the latest  have still left major stock  in October 2007.  
to make loans available to  round of corporate deal- indexes at their best levels  In other trading, the S&P  
Greece to help the country  making signaled that busi­ since 2008.  500 index rose 2.11, or 0.2  
lower its public debt bur­ ness leaders are more con- The Dow rose 8.62, or  percent, to 1,196.48. It  
den. The 16 countries that  fident about a recovery.  0.1 percent, to 11,005.97.  traded has high as  
use the euro agreed to pro- Mirant Corp. agreed to  It was the Dow’s first close  1,199.20. It hasn’t topped  
vide $40.5 billion to Greece  acquire rival power com- above 11,000 since Sept.  1,200 since September  
if needed. The  pany RRI Energy Inc. for  26, 2008. The index  2008.  
International Monetary  $1.61 billion, while the pri­ climbed above 11,000 in  The Nasdaq composite  
Fund could contribute  vate equity firm Cerberus  the final moments of trad­ index rose 3.82, or 0.2 per- 
another $13.5 billion.  Capital Management is  ing Friday before fading  cent, to 2,457.87.  



Conan O’Brien to host show on TBS 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — The late-night guessing game is over, with a star­tling twist: Conan O’Brien has cho­sen TBS as his future talk-show home. 
Expected to debut in November, the as-yet-untitled show will return O’Brien to the air after an absence that began in January when he abruptly left NBC, his employer of 17 years. 
O’Brien’s new program will air Mondays through Thursdays at 11 
p.m. Eastern, which will shift “Lopez Tonight,” starring George Lopez, from 11 p.m. EDT to mid­night. 
O’Brien’s show will originate from Los Angeles, where he moved from New York for his short-lived stint hosting “The Tonight Show.” For the second half of each show, he will face off against Jay Leno, who replaced him. 
The five -year contract gives O’Brien ownership of the show, according to a person familiar with the deal who spoke on condition of anonymity because the person was not authorized to publicly discuss it. 
Upon TBS’ announcement Monday, O’Brien quickly fired out a celebratory tweet. 
“The good news: I will be doing a show on TBS starting in November! The bad news: I’ll be playing Rudy on the all new Cosby Show,” he posted on Twitter. 
TBS said that talks with O’Brien accelerated last week after Lopez called O’Brien to ask him to come aboard. 

“I can’t think of anything better than doing my show with Conan as my lead-in. It’s the beginning of a new era in late-night comedy,” Lopez said in a statement released by TBS. 
Steve Koonin, president of Turner Entertainment Networks, said he flew from Atlanta to George Lopez’s office on the Warner Bros. lot in Los Angeles last Wednesday to enlist the comedian’s help. 
Koonin pitched Lopez on the idea that both he and O’Brien were in their 40s and appealed to a young demographic, while Leno and David Letterman were older and played to an older crowd. 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 

page 8 Tuesday, April 13, 2010 
THE OBSERVER The end of an era 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 


ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnewseditor.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 pcoveney@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either 
I was talking with my Dad this past weekend about an op-ed piece in the Sunday New York Times entitled “One Man, Two Courts,” by Linda Greenhouse. My Dad said,“If you were to tell me 34 years ago that when John Paul Anthony Stevens retired Matthew from the Supreme Durkin Court, he would be 
A Confederacy
hailed as the leader of liberal 
of Dunces 
wing, I would have thought you were crazy.” I don’t believe his is an isolated opinion. As Greenhouse had explained, Stevens, a moderate Republican from Chicago, was nominated in 1970 by Richard Nixon to serve on the 
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. He was appointed to the Supreme Court in 1975 by Republican President Gerald Ford. When asked in an interview in 2007 if he considers himself to be liber­al or conservative, Stevens stated “I don’t think of myself as a liberal at all. I think as part of my general politics, I’m pretty darn conservative.” How on earth then did a twice Republican-nominated judge become the voice of the liberal wing in the Supreme Court? The simple answer is that the meaning of being conservative has shifted, and as a result, the Court, not unlike this country, has become increas­ingly more conservative. 
Stevens was the first justice nominated to the Supreme Court after the Court’s 1973 landmark decision in the case Roe v. Wade, in which the Court ruled in favor of protecting a woman’s right to an abortion. Interestingly, during Stevens’ Senate con­firmation hearing in 1975, he was asked zero questions regarding the issue of abortion. Within 19 days, Stevens was confirmed by a Democrat-controlled Senate. The vote was 98-0. In retrospect, it is easy to understand why the issue of abortion was never even discussed. It was not until 1980 that the Republican Party platform called for the nomination of judges who opposed abortions. In fact, a Gallup poll the summer before the Court announced its decision in 1973 showed that more Republicans than Democrats were in favor of leaving the decision up to the woman and her doctor. 

institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as EDITORIAL CARTOON possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


TODAY’S STAFF News Sports QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Sarah Mervosh Michael Bryan Sam Stryker Megan Finneran Sara Felsenstein Tim Singler 
Graphics Scene 
“It is unbecoming for young men to

Blair Chemidlin Alex Kilpatrick utter maxims.” 

Viewpoint 
Aristotle Greek philosopher
Lauren 
Brauweiler 
Stevens himself has been a proponent of the theory that, during his tenure, the Court has become increasingly more con­servative, as ideology has played an increasing role in the nomination and con­firmation process. In that same 2007 interview, Stevens remarked that “every judge who’s been appointed to the court since Lewis Powell (nominated by Richard Nixon in 1971) has been more conserva­tive than his or her predecessor. Except maybe Justice Ginsburg. That’s bound to have an effect on the court.” 
But this still does not fully explain how Stevens has emerged as the leader of the liberal wing. Stevens provided a glimpse into that answer when he stated in a speech to the Fordham Law School in 2005 that “learning on the job is essential to the process of judging.” What did he mean? Stevens’ stance on the death penalty provides some understanding. In 1976, in the case of Gregg v. Georgia, Stevens voted in favor of the reinstate­ment of a state’s right to execute crimi­nals, holding that the use of the death penalty could be both rational and fair. But by 2008, in an opinion concurring with the majority decision in Baze v. Rees that found the state of Kentucky’s method by lethal injection lawful, Stevens sepa­rately wrote that the time had come to reconsider “the justification for the death penalty itself.” This thoughtful reconsider­ation and re-evaluation of issues over time has happened in other areas, including affirmative action which he was originally opposed to in 1978. 
Stevens will be particularly remem­bered as the liberal voice on the Court during the last decade, especially for his majority opinions over detainee’s rights at Guantanamo Bay. In 2004 in Rasul v. Bush, he wrote for the majority holding that the United States Courts have juris­diction over prisoners being held there, and while they may not be citizens, still have a right to habeas corpus. In 2006 in Hamden v. Rumsfeld, again writing for the majority, he attacked the Executive branch stating that “the Executive is bound to comply with the Rule of Law that prevails in this jurisdiction” after the Court found that the military commission set up there was unauthorized by federal statute and violated international law. And arguably his most famous assessment of our democracy came in his dissent in the campaign finance case decided this past January, Citizens United v. F.E.C., in which he stated “while American democracy is imperfect, few outside the majority of this court would have thought its flaws includ­ed a dearth of corporate money in poli­tics.” 

As President Obama readies to appoint someone to fill Stevens’ chair on the Supreme Court, the question is, what should be the criteria? Further, what should be the criteria for the confirmation process? Should ideology, which was not significant in 1975 when Stevens was appointed, be important today? Should, as some Republican commentators have urged, ideology be the litmus test? 
The point to make is this: Gone are the days of a justice whose decisions were not defined by what he or she believes ideo­logically. Gone are the days of consensus-building in the Court. Gone are the days when a justice can essentially “learn on the job” and evolve ideology through experience. Whomever Obama selects, he or she should epitomize the same charac­teristics that Stevens portrayed, and it should be someone who most certainly continues to shift the Court further toward the center after it moved disturbingly fur­ther right under the Bush administration. Stevens warned of the path the Court was heading down in 2000 following its land­mark decision in Bush v. Gore. After the court handed George Bush the electoral votes in Florida needed to win the elec­tion, Stevens echoed a sentiment shared by many today. 
“Although we may never know with complete certainty the identity of the win­ner of this year’s presidential election, the identity of the loser is perfectly clear. It is the nation’s confidence in the judge as an impartial guardian of the rule of law.” 
Anthony Matthew Durkin is a senior living off campus and double majoring in political science and history. He can be reached at adurkin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 






QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Forget injuries, never forgetkindnesses.” 
Confucius Chinese philosopher & reformer 
The Observer 




Viewpoint 

Tuesday, April 13, 2010 page 9 
A channel of pure thought 

I spent the last summer away from home. The completion of the term sent me down and back up again through the country, living, for various reasons, with 11 different host families, nights beneath 11 alien roofs. During those hot 
William Stewart 
and sunny months, I became 
Guest
acutely aware of 

Columnist
my distance from places and people familiar. This awareness was not a shock or a burden, but an amazement at the distances to which I was now connected by virtue of the presence of my friends and acquaintances. To be honest, I liked the feeling that accompanied the knowl­edge that a zip code or the jurisdiction of a city no longer defined my world. Perhaps, then, my interest in composing and mailing enveloped letters was moti­vated by a desire to indulge this impres­sion of worldliness, a desire to not choose the instant gratification of emailed con­versation, a desire to comprehend the distances of the people to whom I was attached, distances measured in postage marks and days between my writing and the delivery of the response. 
So I wrote. Handwrote, dated, scrib­
bled, composed, signed postcards, loose­leaf, stationary, note cards, photographs. I began correspondences with friends from school, siblings and complete strangers. To one person, Jeff, with whom my only contact had been through his amateur folk rock that I heard on YouTube and MySpace, a $20 bill and a haiku on my part yielded a heartfelt note, a hand-drawn spider on a CD of his recordings and a joke-telling dinosaur cut from purple construction paper. 
Perhaps it is the mechanics of the Postal Service that fascinate me. Wrap up your thoughts in rectangle of paper, scrawl out three lines of names and numbers, smooth a colorful sticker onto the corner and, with nothing more than the action of opening and closing the mouth of an oddly-shaped, blue box, your little parcel arrives in the hands of its target. And usually in pretty good time, too. I find that purely mindbog­gling. 
Or maybe it is the wealth of historical significance that stands behind each let­ter that I send that truly captivates me. My father worked as a mail-carrier dur­ing his college summers and would regale me with anecdotes of trucks with steering wheels adjustable for both sides 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Getting to the real issues behind HEI 
In response to alumnus Mark Goodman’s Letter to the Editor (“Being ‘anti-union’ per­fectly legal,” April 8) I’d like to address some of his basic premises. Mr. Goodman attempts to respond to an article which states that HEI Hotels and Resorts is essentially anti-union for hiring an anti-union consultant. This is a premise that Mr. Goodman agrees with, but then makes the leap to say that the University need not concern itself with HEI because being anti-union is not inherently illegal. Mr. Goodman misses the point. Scott Malpass, the head of the Investment office, refuses to negotiate on the issue because he persists with the myth that HEI “is not anti-union in any way.” Students con­cerned with our University’s investment policy have brought up evidence time and again that HEI is anti-union, and alumni like Mr. Goodman have now corroborated that story. We do not argue that being anti-union is illegal, but that the manner that HEI goes about it is against Catholic Social Teaching and possibly the National Labor Relations Board. According to our moral character as an institution of higher learning and Catholic char­acter, it is the role of the University to care about the protection of workers rights. According to the US Catholic Bishops, “The Church fully supports the right of workers to form unions or other associations to secure their rights to fair wages and working condi­tions.” So long as the University keeps up the farce that HEI is not anti-union, our com­mitment to Catholic Social Teaching remains shallow at best. 
David Rivera 
junior off campus April 12 
of the car, uniform issue pith helmets, and the joy that came with spraying an overly aggressive dog. But I connect with more than just family tradition when I seal up the envelope. Each stamp I press is a shadow, a vestige of the galloping fury of American ingenuity and determi­nation — the Pony Express. And that’s just romantic. 
But no, what draws me the most to compose letters is the possibility that they embody. 
A good friend began work in a third-world country after her graduation last spring. True, her inability to rely on con­sistent internet access dictated the appropriateness of snail-mailing, but, whether it was the extreme distance (and thus time) that would burden each letter or the absolute separation that such a letter would span, something about the situation illuminated the wonderful bril­liance of the line of communication established by the post. 
The two of us are separated by three years, by too many faces to paint, by a lifetime again of experiences and a thou­sand miles. Yet, what we hold in our cor­respondence is an opportunity at a chan­nel of pure thought, a conversation between two minds. Admittedly, hints at lives, guesses at answers, but safety, cer­tainty in the seal of the postage stamp and the knowledge that the addressed will read voraciously, and cherish and ponder, and bear the addresser through the day’s labor in echoey pen strokes on foreign paper. 

In our case, a letter in the mailbox rep­resents so much more than greetings and anecdotes. It embodies a dialogue com­pletely denuded of any boredom or moodiness or annoyance that so often can burden the communication of our thoughts between those with whom we live. In the letters, we can choose our words carefully and depict ourselves patiently, as we picture ourselves and as we wish to be perceived by those around us. It is an ideal completely impractical in the physical world, in the relationship face-to-face, but it is a happy ideal afforded by some magic held within the seal of the back flap of an envelope. 
William Stewart is a sophomore majoring in the Program of Liberal Studies. He can be contacted at William.J.Stewart.90@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


A prayer for healing 
Heavenly Father, 
In every age you restore the inno­cence of creation: 
In Winter you shower the dark earth with pure white snow, 
In Spring you cloak the ground in new life, 
In Summer you bath us in the warmth of Your Love, 
And in Autumn you refresh us with the breeze of your Spirit and new beginnings. 
Look with pity upon Your Church, sprung from the sacred springs of Baptism, 
And restore unto Her the inno­cence of the virginal bride of Christ. 
Send forth the cleansing rain of Your Healing Spirit upon those harmed by the actions of sinful priests, that they may have once again the joy of their inheritance as Your children. 

Fill with courage our Holy Father as he perseveres amidst blind hatred and false accusations. Make him a worthy and persevering shepherd to the flock You have given him. 
Have mercy even on those who deserve the least mercy — those wolves in sheep’s clothing who used their authority to harm Your children. Save them from the hell­fire their actions merit, and restore the dignity of the office they abused. For no soul, however wretched, is beyond Your mercy. 
Restore our innocence, O Father of Heaven, as we pray in the name of your Virgin-born Son, Christ the Lord. Amen. 
Todd Velianski 
freshman Keough Hall April 12 



EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The Observer 




Scene

page 10 Tuesday, April 13, 2010 


Coward wrote the play during utter truth of the situation,” she 
By MARY CLAIRE 

the Second World War in an said. 

O’DONNELL 

attempt to lighten the hearts and It’s the humanity in the play 
Assistant Scene Editor 

minds of the beleaguered Brits, that really helps to draw in the 
but many thought he might be viewer, helping them relate to 
It’s what writer Noël Coward making fun of death at the the characters while keeping called a “farce in three acts.” It’s height of the war. Objections, them hooked with the comic the story of a séance that actual-however, quickly fell to the way-aspect. ly went right, then went horribly side as the play went on to set Director Jay Skelton was also wrong. It’s the story of a violent British box-office records. Its run instrumental in making this love triangle. It’s the comic play of 1,997 consecutive perform-comedic masterpiece come to being put on by the Department ances set a record for non-musi-fruition. Over the last 18 years, of Film, Television and Theatre cal plays in the West End, held Skelton has directed, written or at the DeBartolo Performing Arts intact until “Boeing Boeing” in produced more than 90 plays, Center (DPAC) tonight through the 1970s. musicals or operas in the Sunday. The actors in this performance Chicago, New York and Boston 
Jay Skelton, an assistant pro-said they had a great time put-areas, and it is an honor to have fessor in the Department, is the ting on the play, which helps such an esteemed thespian at director of this witty British com-bring extra emotion and zeal to Notre Dame. edy, “Blithe Spirit,” in which nov-their already marvelous per-Belock and the other actors elist Charles Condomine, played formance. had nothing but glowing compli­by Ryan Belock, wishes to learn Belock, who plays protagonist ments for Skelton, saying that he about the occult for his latest Charles, said he found this pro-has worked incredibly hard to project. He and his wife invite duction one of the “most reward-“fully capture the sophisticated friends and a quirky psychic to ing theatre experiences.” world of this play.” their home to hold a séance. “We adopted a new vocabu-We may finally be leaving win-Hilarity ensues when eccentric lary, a new accent and a new ter behind us, but we could all medium Madame Arcati, played look,” he said. still use some laughs in our lives by Shay Thornton, actually man-All of this is evident in the this week, and the play promises ages to bring Charles’s first wife cast’s beautiful performance, to deliver quite a few hearty Elvira, played by Sloan Thacker, complete with zinging lines and chuckles and more, in British back from the dead. It’s bad upbeat humor. accents nonetheless. So make news for current wife Ruth, Clara Ritger plays gossiping your way to DPAC to enjoy the played by Clare Cooney, who dinner guest Mrs. Bradman. She fantastic work that the Film, finds herself beset by an invisible said she also enjoyed working Television and Theatre depart-nemesis, still jealous though she with the “stellar cast” of the play, ment is doing. The play is at 7:30 no longer holds human form. a statement echoed by Thornton, p.m. tonight through Saturday, The comedic journey through portrayer of Madame Arcati. and Sunday at 2:30 p.m. at the this world and the next is a com-Ritger said she loves that Decio Mainstage. Tickets are $15 edy classic. Coward “poured humanity into for regular admission, $12 for 
The play appeals to a broad his characters, which is not usu-faculty, staff and seniors and $10 range of audiences and promises ally what you’d expect in a for students. to be an enjoyable evening for farce.” all. From its beginning in 1941, “You’re able to laugh at the Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell the play provoked controversy. sheer absurdity of the plot and at modonne5@nd.edu 

BLAIR CHEMIDLIN l Observer Graphic 
The Observer 



Scene

Tuesday, April 13, 2010 page 11 


By STEPHANIE DePREZ 
Scene Writer 
Have you ever been in a conversation with someone who has name-dropped a band and you’ve nodded emphatically, agreeing that said band is so good/cool/innovative, only to completely forget its name the minute you walk away? 
Fear no more, because here is a list of some of the most note-worthy music out there today, with a focus on bands that are successful but that you may not have listened to yet. Did I unforgivably ignore your favorite? E-mail me and maybe I’ll include it in the next list. Thanks to all the feedback I’ve received so far. Look for your suggestions when I write up their appropriate genres. 
Under the tutelage of acts like Black Sabbath and Iron Maiden, heavy metal made its way to the mainstream in the late 70s and early 80s. Bands got louder and the music got, well, heavier. This hasn’t stopped, though it has fractioned a bit. Nowadays there are so many gen­res of metal and so many bands that cross labels that it’s often hard to find exactly what you’re looking for. Most bands get thrown into the pot of “pro­gressive metal,” which doesn’t really indicate any­thing. From thrash/speed metal to doom metal to Christian metal (oh yeah, it exists) there are literally thousands of bands screaming for your attention. 
This column focuses on promi­nent European metal bands. Europe has become partic­ularly well known for its symphonic metal, which refers to metal that employs classical orchestra instruments, whether they be backing up electric gui­tars and drums or plugged in to create a new sound. If you have any suggestions for the next installment in the metal genre, e-mail the names in. 
Apocalyptica 
From Finland with love. If Beethoven were alive today, he would be playing with these guys. This electric-cello-cen­tric Metallica cover band from the 90s has morphed into the premier collabora­tor for anyone with metal street cred. Nowadays they release all original con­tent, often with guest vocals by lead singers from other bands (such as those listed below). They pioneered the format of “let’s plug an amp to the cello and see what happens.” 
Tracks to tap: “Grace,” “I Don’t Care” 
Lacuna Coil 
Italian grace meets spurned lover — and I’m not talking Puccini. Male-female vocals arch over the most “rock” sound­ing group on this list. These guys are what Evanescence failed to be — a musically relevant metal catharsis. Hooks are prominent in their radio-ready songs, and indeed, much of their success has been alongside such main­stream American acts as Slayer, and the cross-pollination can be heard. (It helps that the lead female singer Cristina Scabbia is dating a member of Slipknot). Lacuna Coil survives not so much on interesting orchestration as it does pro­viding basic metal music that is inven­tive enough to keep the ear of a connois­seur. 

Tracks to tap: “Spellbound,” “Our Truth,” “Senzafine” 
Nightwish 
This is the great-granddaddy group of symphonic metal. Direct from Finland, this five-part, female-fronted metal roy­alty manage to marry pumping guitars and heavy bass lines with full orchestra­tion (we’re talking horns and violins) and soprano vocals. With lyrics that are as ethereal as they are operatic, this band has earned its spot as the golden standard of success­ful European metal. Dashing fearless­ly from an 
orchestral interlude into a speedy gui­tar solo (often layered on top of the classi­cal instru­ments), this is the most “epic” music you will find on iTunes. If the Fellowship of the Ring were a band, they would be 
Nightwish. 
Tracks to tap: 
“Amaranth ,” 
“Nemo,” “Ghost 

Love Score,” “Bye Bye Beautiful” 
Within Temptation 
Another European super-group, this female-fronted band from the Netherlands has a massive world follow­ing. These guys don’t just do metal and orchestra, but often like to throw a choir in the background (just check out their 2008 live album “Black Symphony,” which features electric guitar, bass, drums, and … a choir and 60-piece orchestra). The usual themes of lost love and unrequited passion are present in nearly every song, but Within Temptation maintains a sound that is so accessible one might even call them the “pop group” of the symphonic metal scene. If you fear the word “metal” for thoughts of silver spikes and over­extended tongues, let the corset-wearing soprano of Sharon den Adel change your mind. Plebes, start here. 
Tracks to tap: “Angels,” “Stand My Ground,” “The Howling” 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 

BLAIR CHEMIDLIN l Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, April 13, 2010 
MLB 

Phillies take easy win over Nationals in opener 
First-time Cub Xavier Nady pleases new owner with three-run homer; Rangers upset Indians on the road 
the fourth and chased Marquis the seventh-inning stretch. 
Associated Press 
with five in the fifth. Carlos Ruiz A crowd of 41,306 turned out 

PHILADELPHIA — Placido started the fifth with a single. at Wrigley Field on a 58-degree Polanco hit a go-ahead single, Hamels tried to sacrifice and afternoon and watched the Cubs Chase Utley had a two-run reached safely when catcher rush to an 8-1 lead homer and the Philadelphia Ivan Rodriguez's throw to sec-“We’ve been to a handful of Phillies overcame an early ond bounced into center field pretty cold opening days, but deficit to beat the Washington for an error. this opening day is going to be Nationals 7-4 in their home Juan Castro, filling in for the one I’ll remember forever,” opener Monday. Rollins, hit an RBI double to Ricketts said. 
The two-time defending NL deep left-center. Polanco fol-Nady, playing his first home champions are off to a 6-1 start, lowed with a two-run single to game for the Cubs, hit a three-their best since opening the right-center to put the Phillies run homer in the third after sin­1993 pennant-winning season ahead 5-4. Utley hit a two-run gles by Marlon Byrd and Derrek 7-1. shot off the foul pole in right to Lee. Alfonso Soriano then sin-
Cole Hamels (2-0) earned the make it 7-4. gled and Baker cleared the left-win despite another so-so effort. Chad Durbin, Jose Contreras, field bleachers for a 5-0 lead He allowed four runs and six Danys Baez and Ryan Madson against Doug Davis (0-1). hits in 5 2-3 innings. The lanky combined for 3 1-3 innings of Ramirez hit a two-run shot off left-hander is trying to bounce scoreless relief for Philadelphia. Claudio Vargas in the fourth, back following an inconsistent Madson earned his second save giving Ryan Dempster (1-0) a year after a dominant postsea-in as many tries. big cushion. son in 2008. Willingham homered leading Dempster allowed seven hits 
Playing without Jimmy off the second. Washington and five runs in 6 1-3 innings Rollins, a late scratch after added three runs with two outs and ran his career record straining his right calf, the in the fourth. Hamels nearly against the Brewers to 12-3. Phillies continued their torrid escaped trouble after giving up Ryan Braun hit a three-run hitting. They’re averaging 7.1 a single to Cristian Guzman and homer and an RBI single for the runs and 11 hits per game. nicking Adam Dunn's jersey Brewers. 
The Phillies celebrated the with a pitch. He struck out With Milwaukee trailing 5-0, One day after blowing a two-respectable start, allowing two franchise's seventh pennant Willingham on a 3-2 pitch, Corey Hart hit an RBI single in run lead in the ninth in a loss at runs and five hits in eight during a pregame ceremony, painting the outside corner with the fourth. A potential rally fiz-Detroit, Cleveland’s fill-in closer innings. then won their first home open-a 92 mph fastball. Hamels blew zled when Gregg Zaun, now 0 Chris Perez loaded the bases in The Indians didn’t have center er since 2005. a fastball past Ian Desmond for for 18 this season, bounced into the ninth without getting an out. fielder Grady Sizemore, who 
Led by the Phanatic, their the second out, butt Rodriguez a double play. He threw three straight balls missed his second straight game furry green mascot, players followed with an RBI single to Lee hit an RBI single with two before giving up a double to with tightness in his back. entered the field from Ashburn make it 2-0. outs and Ramirez followed with Joaquin Arias. Taylor Sizemore’s injury is not believed Alley behind the stands in left-After Adam Kennedy walked his second homer of the year. Teagarden followed with a bunt to be serious, but his absence center field and walked through to load the bases, Marquis lined Braun’s two-out homer in the that Perez fielded cleanly, but from the lineup is noteworthy the crowd and onto a red carpet a two-run double out of the fifth got the Brewers within 8-4. the right-hander’s throw to because the three-time All-Star that stretched from the warning reach of leaping third baseman Byrd had an RBI double in the third was high and not in time once played in 382 straight track to the infield. Polanco. bottom half, set up by shortstop to get Arias. Perez then walked games. 
Manager Charlie Manuel The Phillies answered with Alcides Escobar’s error. Byrd, Elvis Andrus and was pulled by It was actually the Indians’ raised the 2009 NL champi-two in the bottom half. Polanco also making his first appear-Acta. third opener in eight days. They onship flag on the concourse hit a one-out single, Utley ance with the Cubs at Wrigley, Tony Sipp got pinch-hitter opened in Chicago last week behind the brick batter's eye. walked and Ryan Howard hit an had three hits. Ryan Garko to pop out before and played in Detroit’s first Players were introduced to RBI single. Acta, forced to mix and match home game on Friday. rousing ovations and the U.S. Nationals manager Jim Rangers 4, Indians 2 with closer Kerry Wood on the “We lead the league in home Navy parachute team delivered Riggleman went out to talk to Nelson Cruz hit his fifth home disabled list with a sore back, openers,” Acta joked before the the first balls. Marquis and was ejected by run of the season, connecting in brought in Wright to face game. 
Josh Willingham hit a solo plate umpire Paul Schrieber, the 10th inning and sending the Michael Young. On the first They went 0-3 in them. homer and losing pitcher Jason who went to the mound to speed Texas Rangers to a win over pitch, Young bounced into a Texas took a 2-1 lead in the Marquis had a two-run double up the conversation. Werth Cleveland on Monday, spoiling double play, ending the threat. fifth on Young’s two-out RBI sin-for the Nationals. drove in a run with a grounder the Indians’ sold-out opener and Wright wasn’t so fortunate in gle and Carmona’s wild pitch. 
Rollins, the three-time All-to third to cut it to 4-2. manager Manny Acta’s home the 10th as Cruz helped the Cleveland tied it in the sixth Star shortstop and 2007 NL Hamels helped the Phillies debut. Rangers improve to 2-9 in road off Harden on Hafner’s sacrifice MVP, got hurt while running in win their second World Series Cruz’s two-run drive came openers since 2000. fly. The Rangers kept it tied the outfield during pregame title in '08 and earned MVP with one out against Jamey Texas is 9-1 against Cleveland when center fielder Julio warmups. He had already been honors in the NLCS and World Wright (0-1). the past two seasons. Borbon threw out Hafner trying introduced in the starting line-Series. But he struggled to Cruz leads the AL in home While his relievers may give to score from second on Matt up. match that success last year, runs. His line shot onto the Acta some early-season heart-LaPorta’s single. Hafner bar-
All-Star right fielder Jayson going 10-11 in the regular sea-pedestrian home-run porch at burn, manager Ron Washington reled into Teagarden, but the Werth left in the sixth because son and 1-2 in the postseason. Progressive Field wrecked an must feel better about his catcher held onto the ball. of soreness in his left hip. There otherwise pleasant day for bullpen staff. The Indians put Choo gave the Indians a 1-0 was no immediate word on the Cubs 9, Brewers 5 Cleveland fans, who have to be the go-ahead run in scoring lead in the first with his second extent of the injuries to both Xavier Nady, Jeff Baker and concerned about the club’s position with one out in the homer, a shot to right that players. Aramis Ramirez homered shaky bullpen. eighth but Darren Oliver struck brought Cleveland fans out of 
Marquis (0-2) allowed seven Monday as the Chicago Cubs put Frank Francisco (2-2), who out Travis Hafner and Jhonny their seats for the first time this runs — six earned — and six on a power display for new lost his job as Texas’ closer on Peralta to keep it tied 2-2. season. The homer also induced hits in 4 1-3 innings. The right-owner Tom Ricketts and beat Sunday, pitched a perfect ninth. Texas starter Rich Harden, a chorus of “Choooos” for the hander, who signed a $15 mil-the Milwaukee Brewers in their Neftali Feliz, Francisco’s tempo-who signed a one-year, $7.5 right fielder. However, two lion, two-year contract with home opener. rary replacement, earned his million free agent contract with innings later, the home crowd Washington as a free agent, was Ricketts, the longtime fan third career save throwing fast-the Rangers in December, wasn’t so happy with Choo. He an All-Star with Colorado last whose family took over the team balls at nearly 100 mph. allowed two runs and five hits in apparently forgot there was season. in October, joined his two broth-Shin-Soo Choo homered for six innings. only one out and got doubled off 
The Phillies came back from a ers and sister to sing “Take Me the Indians, who lost four in a Cleveland’s Fausto Carmona first when he took off on 4-0 margin by scoring twice in Out to the Ball Game” during row. had his second straight Hafner’s routine fly to left. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

If you or someone you care about
FOR RENT gradrentals.viewwork.com NOTICES PERSONAL has been sexually assaulted, we “You can't ask for what you want can help. For more information, visit unless you know what it is. A lot of Notre Dame's website: people don't know what they want 
New upscale apts. Less than 1 mil ——————————————— Graduation Weekend hotel rooms: UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do http.csap.nd.edu or they want much less than they from ND, next to Taco Bell on SR We have two rooms at the Hilton not go it alone. Notre Dame has deserve. First you have figure out 
933. 2-story, 8 unit bldg. Each has Garden Inn for ND-SMC graduation many resources in place to assist ——————————————— what you want. Second, you have 2bd/2bath. GE appliances w/dish-ATTN: Grad Student-faculty. weekend. Rooms are available you. If you or someone you love to decide that you deserve it. Third, washer. Mstr. bdrm w/walkin closet. Spacious 2-bdrm, 2.5 bath home, Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The needs confidential support or assis-you have to believe you can get it. No water/sewer bill. $1000/mo LR, DR, FR, Florida Room. Fenced Hilton Garden Inn is ideally located tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at Some people never learn until they And, fourth, you have to have the starting. Call Holiday Inn Express yard, 2-car garage. Security. Near on SMC campus and right across 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For get kicked out. Karma always finds guts to ask for it.” @ 968-8080 &amp; leave msg. ND. 262-332-0015. from ND. Rooms offered at their more information, visit ND's web you. -Barbara De Angelis 
face value. If interested, email site: fontanaricci@mac.com http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 


Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 

Tuesday, April 13, 2010 page 13 
Men’s Division I Baseball Baseball America Rankings 
team previous 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 UCLA Virginia Arizona State Texas Georgia Tech Florida State Florida LSU Arkansas South Carolina TCU Coastal Caro. Louisville Mississippi Miami (Fla.) Oklahoma Clemson Oregon State Western Ky. Virginia Tech California Cal St. Fullerton Auburn Arizona Connecticut 
3 4 1 6 2 7 8 5 10 11 12 13 9 15 14 19 16 17 21 25 NR NR NR NR NR 

Women’s Division I Softball ESPN.com/USA Softball Poll 
team  previous  
1  Washington  1  
2  Arizona  2  
3  Michigan  3  
4  UCLA  5  
5  Florida  9  
6  Georgia Tech  7  
7  Alabama  6  
8  Missouri  4  
9  Stanford  11  
10  Arizona State  10  
11  Oklahoma State  15  
12  Georgia  8  
13  Oklahoma  13  
14  LSU  12  
15  California  14  
16  Florida State  16  
17  Texas  17  
18  Tennessee (W)  19  
19  Illinois  20  
20  Texas A&M  18  
21  Oregon  21  
22  Ohio State  23  
23  Baylor  24  
24  North Carolina  22  
25  Massachusetts  RV  

NFL 


Jets’Holmes suspended for first four games 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Newly acquired Jets wide receiver Santonio Holmes was sus­pended Monday without pay by the NFL for the first four regular-season games for vio­lating the league’s substance abuse policy. 
The league announced the suspension a day after the Jets acquired the talented but troubled Holmes from the Pittsburgh Steelers for a fifth-round pick in this month's draft. 
“We understood that was part of it, but we just felt like even with that, it was worth it,” general manager Mike Tannenbaum said. “Obviously, a guy with his production and at 26 years old, he would not have been available if these indiscre­tions didn't happen and obvi­ously the suspension. But, with that said, we just felt like the risk and the price was reasonable for us.” 
Holmes, the 2009 Super Bowl MVP, is eligible to par­ticipate in the team’s offsea­son program and in all pre­season practices and games. He would be suspended for an entire season if he violates the league’s policy again. 
“Obviously, there’s been some bumps in the road in the past and hopefully he’s learned from that,” Tannenbaum said. “We understand that there’s risks, significant risks. ... We under­stand that there have obvi­ously been some significant issues in the past and we’re going to move forward together.” 

Tannenbaum said conver­sations with Pittsburgh about a possible deal started late Saturday night, and into early Sunday morning. He added that coach Rex Ryan was excited about the opportunity to acquire a player who “Rex will tell you cost him a Super Bowl ring” while Ryan was an assistant at Baltimore. 
Holmes is coming off his best season, with 79 catches for 1,248 yards and five touchdowns. But he is also facing a lawsuit in Florida from a woman who claims he threw a glass at her, cutting her above the eye, in an Orlando nightclub. A witness has since taken responsibility, according to Holmes’ lawyer. 
The Jets appeared unfazed by the off-field issues, adding a game-breaking player to an offense that already included second-year quarterback Mark Sanchez, wide receivers Braylon Edwards and Jerricho Cotchery, tight end Dustin Keller, running backs Shonn Greene, Leon Washington and the recently signed LaDainian Tomlinson. 
“He’s known by members of the team,” owner Woody Johnson said of Holmes at a news conference in Cortland, N.Y., to announce the Jets’ training camp plans. “Everybody has a lot of respect for him. He’s tough. He’s a clutch receiver. I don’t think pressure gets to him in a game.” 



around the dial 
NBA 
Celtics at Bulls 8 p.m., TNT Nuggets at Suns 10:30 p.m., TNT 
IN BRIEF 
Bulls take a one-game lead for 8th spot in the East 
TORONTO — A message in the Chicago locker room read: “How bad do we want it?” The way Joakim Noah played, it was easy to tell. 
Derrick Rose scored 26 points, Noah had 18 points, 19 rebounds and matched a career-high with seven assists and the Bulls beat Toronto 104-88 on Sunday night to take a one-game lead over the Raptors for the final Eastern Conference playoff spot. 
“I knew it was a really important game, I was really focused,” Noah said. “I just wanted to go out there and impose my will as much as I could, just be aggressive offensively and defensively. It was a huge win and I just wanted to make sure that our team played harder than their team.” 
Luol Deng scored 14 points, Taj Gibson had 11 and Ronald Murray and Hakim Warrick each scored 10 points for the Bulls, who led by 25 points. 
Wisconsin cuts ties with Nike because of factory concerns 
MADISON — The University of Wisconsin is cutting ties with Nike because the company has failed to address its concerns related to the closing of two factories in Honduras. 
Chancellor Biddy Martin said Friday the shoemaker has not devel­oped “meaningful ways of address­ing the plight of displaced workers and their families in Honduras” or plans to address similar situations in the future. 
Workers at two factories that were under contract to produce Nike apparel have not received severance after they were abruptly closed in January 2009. 
Nike did not own the factories, but the university’s code of conduct makes companies licensed to use its logos responsible for the actions of subcontractors. The Nike deal generated $49,000 in royalties for the university last year. 

Watson receives exemption to play in the U.S. Open 
FAR HILLS, N.J. — Tom Watson received a special exemption Monday to play in the U.S. Open at Pebble Beach, where he won his only U.S. Open in 1982 with a me­orable chip-in to beat Jack Nicklaus. 
The exemption was announced a day after the 60-year-old Watson turned in another impressive per­formance at a major, tying for 18th at the Masters. In his previous major, he lost in a playoff to Stewart Cink in the British Open at Turnberry. 
The U.S. Open returns for the fifth time to Pebble Beach on June 17-20. It was last played there in 2000, when Tiger Woods was the only player to finish under par and won by a record 15 shots. 
Watson will be the only player to have competed in every U.S. Open at Pebble Beach, dating to the first one in 1972. 
page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, April 13, 2010 
NFL 

Chiefs sign Jones as new addition 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. — If Thomas Jones is worried about sharing the ball with Jamaal Charles, he’s not say­ing. 
The newest addition to a suddenly crowded Kansas City backfield insisted Monday that personal num­bers are not uppermost in his mind. 
“I signed here to help the team win,” said Jones, who agreed to a two-year, $5 mil­lion free agent contract last month. 
“If I get five carries, I get five carries. If I get 25 car­ries, I get 25 carries,” he said. “All I can do at this point is prepare for the sea­son like I’ve always done. That’s how I’ve been all my career.” 
With the New York Jets last year, Jones got 331 carries in the regular season and wound up, counting the post­season, with 14 touchdowns and a career-best 1,402 yards. He was a key compo­nent in the Jets making it all the way to the AFC champi­onship game. 
But soon to be 32, he ’s almost nine years older than Charles, a blazing fast run­ning back who burst into stardom in Kansas City last year after replacing the trou­bled Larry Johnson. 
With just 10 starts and 190 carries, Charles piled up 1,120 yards rushing, includ­ing a team-record 249 yards in the season finale at Denver. He became the first player in NFL history to rush for more than 1,100 yards on fewer than 200 carries and also had a long kickoff return for a TD. 
At 5-foot-11, 190, Charles may have trouble absorbing a season-long pounding. Jones, an inch shorter but more than 20 pounds heavier, may be an effective tool in keeping the younger, faster man healthy and fresh. 
If so, it’s a role that Jones says he would accept. 
“I think going through a 16­game season you need two or three running backs, ” he said. “It’s a physical game. Especially if you have two change-of-pace guys with dif­ferent running styles, it makes it harder for the defense to adjust. It makes it tougher for them to prepare for you all week.” 
Over the last eight games of the Chiefs’ 4-12 season, Charles rolled up 968 yards rushing, second only to the 1,047 yards of Tennessee’s Chris Johnson. 
His emergence was hailed by Todd Haley as the greatest single development in his first year as head coach. Presumably, the Chiefs will go into camp figuring Charles as their first option. 
“I think he’s a great back,” said Jones. “He’s got great quickness, great speed, great balance. He’s tough. And he’s got a lot of heart.” 
It’s the first time in fran­chise history the Chiefs will open camp with two running backs coming off 1,000-yard seasons. Jones said he’s not worried about whatever role the Chiefs might have in mind for him. 
“I’ve always been a team guy,” he said. “For me, the more good players you have the better your chance of winning. There is no perfect number of carries. It’s what you do with the numbers you have.” 
Jones will no doubt be asked to provide locker room leadership. Where Charles is quiet and sticks to himself, Jones was twice voted by the Jets players as their most inspirational teammate. 
“It’s about a team coming together,” Jones said. “You can have a lot of good players on a team but if there’s no chemistry, in those close games you’re not going to be able to come together and find a way to win.” 


PGA 

Woods gets support, but no jacket 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Except for watching Phil Mickelson slip into another green jacket, Tiger Woods should have few complaints about his week at the Masters. 
He tied a tournament record by making four eagles. He was never out of the top 10 from the opening round. He had his best 72-hole score at Augusta National in five years. 
None of that might have been possible without a spon­taneous and warm reception on the first tee Thursday. 
Woods might have looked like the same player, but he wasn’t the same person. The fans who came to watch his golf could not ignore the sor­did lifestyle that kept him away from the game in the first place. 
That’s why the cheers were so important. 
They put him at ease from the start, and he felt more comfortable as the week went on, even as his swing got worse. 
“Overall, it was a good week,” Woods said Sunday after he tied for fourth. 
The next step? 
Woods didn’t say when he would play again. He said he needed to “take a little time off and kind of re-evaluate things.” If he sticks to a nor­mal schedule, Woods could show up at Quail Hollow or The Players Championship or even the Memorial. Those are the three places he typically plays before the U.S. Open at Pebble Beach. 
Just don’t get the idea the next step will be forward. 

All of those tournaments, or any others he chooses to play this year, will be everything Augusta National is not. 
They will be public golf tournaments, with fans who won’t worry about losing their season badges. What he hears from the crowd sitting around the island green on the 17th hole at the TPC Sawgrass might be a little different from what he heard in Amen Corner. 
And the scrutiny will not stop. 
Woods set himself up for failure when he pledged to tone down his temper — the celebrations and the cursing. He caused quite the stir in the opening round when he flung his iron to the ground after an errant shot to the 14th. A year ago, no one would have noticed. Now, it was proof that Woods hadn’t changed a lick. 
He seemed to reach a boil­ing point when CBS Sports analyst Peter Kostis asked him about controlling his emotion without eliminating it. 
“I think people are making way too much of a big deal of this thing,” Woods said. “I was not feeling good. I hit a big snipe off the first hole, and I don’t know how people can think I should be happy about that. I hit a wedge from 45 yards and basically bladed it over the green. These are not things I normally do. So I’m not going to be smiling, and not going to be happy.” 
There is some truth to that. Woods at least showed some signs of improvement with his temper, and he was more engaging with the fans over four days than he had been over the last 14 years. 
Then came two words that got him into more hot water 
— Ben Hogan. While talking about how he could produce good scores after not compet­ing in five months, Woods spoke about the intensity of his practice sessions. 
“It’s very similar to what Hogan went through coming off the accident,” Woods said. “Just couldn’t play that much, and when you can’t play, you have to concentrate on your practice.” 
Woods was talking only about preparations for a tour­nament, but he was panned for even comparing himself with Hogan because the two accidents were nothing alike. Hogan’s car crashed into a bus, and he threw himself across the passenger seat to save his wife. Woods’ SUV ran over a fire hydrant and into a tree, and his wife saved him 
— at least that’s what he said. 
This is the kind of inspection every answer, every act is going to get — maybe for the rest of the year. First comes the next PGA Tour event he plays with fewer restrictions on the gallery. Then comes the next major, where the vol­ume is cranked up, and the 
U.S. Open is about as public as it gets. St. Andrews is a home game for the British tabloids, and there might be a trip to the Ryder Cup in Wales, which is rancorous even in good times. 
This could be a long year. The Masters might have looked like a start, but for Woods, it was more like spring training. 


Tuesday, April 13, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
ATP 

Ferraro has no problem at Masters 
Associated Press 
MONACO — Two-time champi­on Juan Carlos Ferrero of Spain easily defeated countryman Marcel Granollers 6-0, 6-3 on Monday in the first round of the Monte Carlo Masters. 
The ninth-seeded Ferrero, who was the Monte Carlo champion in 2002 and ‘03, broke serve five times overall and saved the only break point he faced. Ferrero will face Germany’s Benjamin Becker in the second round. 
Tenth-seeded Tomas Berdych of the Czech Republic dropped his serve before defeating Spain’s Feliciano Lopez 6-3, 6-1. Berdych will face France’s Richard Gasquet, who beat qual­ifier Daniel Gimeno-Traver of Spain 6-2, 4-6, 6-2, one week after losing to Andy Roddick in the final of the Sony Ericsson Open. 
No. 11 David Ferrer of Spain and No. 14 Juan Monaco of Argentina also progressed to the second round. Ferrer won 6-2, 6­4 against Peter Luczak of Australia, while Monaco beat Finland’s Jarkko Nieminen 7-5, 7-5 after breaking his opponent for the sixth time to seal victory. 
David Nalbandian of Argentina served eight aces to defeat Andreas Beck of Germany 6-3, 6­1, while Germany’s Philipp Kohlschreiber labored to beat Thomaz Bellucci of Brazil 2-6, 6­3, 7-6 (3) in a tense match where both players dropped serve six times. 
Kohlschreiber will play third-seeded Andy Murray on Wednesday. 
“He’s talented. He’s given the top guys a lot of good matches over the last couple of years,” Murray said. “Very good clay-court player, and I need to play well to beat him.” 

In other matches, Latvia’s Ernests Gulbis beat Marco Chiudinelli 6-3, 6-2; Andrey Golubev of Kazakhstan beat Jeremy Chardy 6-2, 7-6 (2); Spain’s Nicolas Almagro defeated Simon Greul 3-6, 7-5, 6-2; Julien Benneteau of France beat Oleksandr Dolgopolov Jr. 6-4, 5­7, 6-2; and Germany’s Philipp Petzschner won 6-3, 2-6, 6-2 against Guillermo Garcia-Lopez. 
Five-time defending champion Rafael Nadal plays Eduardo Schwank or Thiemo de Bakker in the second round Wednesday. The third-ranked Nadal, seeded 
NHL 

Lightning owner Vinik takes charge 

second at Monte Carlo behind No. 2-ranked Novak Djokovic of Serbia, is seeking his first title this year. 
“If I don’t have a good result here, in Rome or Madrid, my chances (at) Roland Garros or Wimbledon will be less,” Nadal said Monday. “I never felt I am invincible on one surface, even on clay.” 
Nadal has won 27 straight matches at Monte Carlo, beating Djokovic in last year’s final, and enters the tournament having lost semifinals to Roddick and Ivan Ljubicic on hard courts at the Sony Ericsson Open and the BNP Paribas Open. 
Associated Press 

TAMPA, Fla. — The Tampa Bay Lightning are starting over yet again. 
New owner Jeff Vinik cleaned house Monday, firing coach Rick Tocchet and gener­al manager Brian Lawton after the struggling franchise missed the playoffs for the third straight season. 
It’s the club’s third coaching change in two years. 
The Lightning went 34-36-12 this season and are 53-69-26 since Tocchet replaced Barry Melrose in November 2008. 
Lawton’s dismissal was not a surprise, either. Many of his personnel decisions and free agent signings backfired, he and Tocchet bickered at times, and the GM’s two-year con­tract was due to expire in June. 
“On the hockey side of things, I thought it was very important to have a fresh start. Nothing negative about Rick Tocchet or Brian Lawton,” said Vinik, whose purchase of the team was approved by the NHL Board of Governors in March. 
Vinik is conducting a search for a chief executive officer and hopes to fill the position within two months. The CEO will select Lawton’s replace­ment, and the new GM will have the responsibility of hir­ing the coach. 
Vinik, who purchased the team from a group that owned the Lightning less than two years, said he’s seeking stabili­ty after watching the club climb into playoff contention in early Februay, only to fade rapidly after the Olympic break. 
“I saw a lot of talent on the ice. I saw the makings of a great team. I saw an organiza­tion that can achieve a lot of great things in the years ahead,” Vinik said. “The moves I’ve done today, hopefully are to help us move as quickly as possible in that direction.” 
Tocchet became interim coach 16 games into the 2008­09 season and was given the head coach position in May 2009. Lawton assumed the general manager post on Oct. 
22, 2008. 
Since winning the 2004 Stanley Cup championship, Tampa Bay has not advanced beyond the first round of the playoffs. 
“Where we’ve finished the last two or three years is depressing,” forward Martin St. Louis said. He added that while no one could be certain Vinik would quickly fire Tocchet and Lawton, players sensed change was inevitable. 
“Stability is always nice. I think it gives you a chance to grow. But obviously the results we’ve had the last three years, there’s changes going to be made,” St. Louis said. “It’s part of the business. You’re judged on results. I feel bad for Toc. I wish we could have gotten bet­ter results for him.” 
Vinik declined to identify who the Lightning might be targeting as replacements. The Boston financier also wouldn’t speculate on whether the team’s highest-paid player, captain Vincent Lecavalier, will be with Tampa Bay next sea­son. 
Lecavalier, who has a no-trade clause in his contract, said he’d like to return and help the club get back to the playoffs. 
“We were in a great position to make it, and we didn’t,” Lecavalier said. “Nothing you can do now. It’s over. You start fresh next year. That’s what we’ll do.” 
The biggest bright spot of the season was the development of emerging star Steven Stamkos. The top pick in the 2008 NHL draft scored his 51st goal in Sunday night’s season finale at Florida and will share the Rocket Richard Trophy with Pittsburgh’s Sidney Crosby. 
“It’s a pretty special time for me individually. Obviously, you’d much rather be in the playoffs. But it’s nice to get the 50th goal, and it’s icing on the cake to win the Richard,” the 20-year-old Stamkos said. 
“To be tied with Crosby is pretty special. I never would have dreamt this day would come so early in my career. At the same time, all the hard work in paying off.” 


page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, April 13, 2010 
NHL 

Stanley Cup road begins 
Associated Press 
To borrow an NHL slogan from seasons past, the biggest question heading into this year’s postseason can be sim­ply summed up as: Is this the year? 
Is this the year the Detroit Red Wings and the defending champion Pittsburgh Penguins give other teams a chance to play for the Stanley Cup? 
If so, will the San Jose Sharks finally step up in the Western Conference and live up to their lofty regular-sea­son marks and shake their underachieving reputation? If not, will the upstart Chicago Blackhawks or surprising Phoenix Coyotes unseat the Red Wings, who won the Cup in 2008 against the Penguins and then fell in seven games a year ago in the rematch. 
The answers will begin to unfold Wednesday night when the 16-team Stanley Cup tour­nament gets under way with four games. Three other series will start Thursday, and the Central Division ­champion Blackhawks will host the Nashville Predators on Friday in Game 1 of that Western matchup. 
San Jose finished first in the West last year and was knocked out in the first round by No. 8 Anaheim. The Sharks (51-20-11) finished on top again with 113 points and will try to advance against Colorado, back in the playoffs after a one-year absence. 
“I don’t think we can look at any numbers because for the past so many years we sup­posedly have been better than anybody in the league and we came short,” goalie Evgeni Nabokov said. “All the num­bers, all the talk does not really matter. We have to come out and win the hockey games. That’s the only way we can get away from all those talks.” 
If the Sharks do get past the Avalanche, they could face Detroit in the second round. 
“You’ve got to catch fire,” Red Wings coach Mike Babcock said of the recipe for success. “Sometimes you’re not great in the early rounds, but you’ve got to catch fire. There’s got to be a belief sys­tem, and you need role play­ers to step up and your best players to be good. 
“It’s a great, great trophy. It’s the summer of your life when you get to touch that thing and get your name put 
on that thing and share it with your family. It’s a prize worth chasing. It’s hard to win, which makes it so spe­cial.” 
The Red Wings will face the Coyotes in the first round. Phoenix hasn’t been in the playoffs since 2002, joining the Los Angeles Kings for the longest gap between appear­ances for this year’s quali­fiers. The No. 6 Kings will meet the No. 3 Vancouver Canucks, who won the Northwest Division. 
The Penguins should face serious challenges out East as they begin their quest for a third straight trip to the finals. The most obvious threat to fourth -seeded Pittsburgh on paper appears to be the Presidents’ Trophy-winning Washington Capitals, who posted an NHL-best 121 points. 

Pittsburgh entered the final weekend of the regular sea­son with a chance to win the Atlantic Division and the No. 2 seed, but a loss to also-ran Atlanta on Saturday ruined those hopes. Now the Penguins are assured of home-ice advantage in only the first round against the Ottawa Senators. 
“We just know what is expected of each other,” said Penguins captain Sidney Crosby, who scored a career-high 51 goals this season. “Everyone gets a pretty good idea when you go through that many games and adver­sity and all those things together. The expectations are high within this room, and having that familiarity with what we need to do is important.” 
Don’t write off the Penguins just yet. Pittsburgh was the No. 4 seed in 2009 and took out No. 2 Washington in the second round. 
“I’m certainly not looking forward to playing them,” Capitals coach Bruce Boudreau said. “I hope they lose in the first round. If we have to play them, we have to play them. I think the road has to go through them. They’re the champions. No reason to think they can't do 
it again. They got the  same  
cast of characters.”  
C a p i t a l s  c a p t a i n  A l e x  

Ovechkin ceded his hold on the Maurice Richard Trophy, given each season to the NHL’s top goal scorer, after a two-year reign. Ovechkin, the league MVP the past two sea­sons, finished one goal behind Crosby and Tampa Bay youngster Steven Stamkos. 
Ovechkin trails Crosby in several areas, most impor­tantly in the championship department. In the past 12 months, Crosby has captured the Stanley Cup and an Olympic gold medal — two things that have eluded the Russian star. 
“I think he’s like any other player, he gets excited for the playoffs and will ramp it up a little bit,” Boudreau said of Ovechkin. 
With a loaded offensive lineup that includes high-fly­ing forwards Nicklas Backstrom and Alexander Semin, and top -scoring defenseman Mike Green, Washington is primed to make a long run. The Capitals’ path starts Thursday against the No. 8 Montreal Canadiens, who didn’t secure a playoff spot until Saturday. 
The final three places in the East weren’t decided until the last two days of the season. The Boston Bruins, last year’s top -seeded team, nabbed sixth place on Saturday and earned a first-round meeting with the Northeast Division-winning Buffalo Sabres. 
The No. 7 Philadelphia needed even more time — a shootout win on Sunday over the New York Rangers in win or go home game. The Flyers jumped over Montreal with that victory and into a first-round matchup with the sec­
ond -seeded New Jersey Devils, who edged the Penguins for the Atlantic title. 
The Devils are in the play­offs for the 13th straight sea­son, the second-longest cur­rent streak in the league to Detroit’s 19 consecutive appearances. 
Philadelphia played poorly down the stretch and nearly missed the playoffs after being considered an early Stanley Cup contender. The Flyers should carry confi ­dence and momentum into the series with the Devils, a team they beat in five of six meetings this season. 
“We’re going to have to pay attention and look at the tapes to see how they gave us such a tough time,” Devils goalie Martin Brodeur said. 
A loss to Buffalo on Sunday would have dropped New Jersey to the No. 3 seed and into a first-round matchup with Boston. The Devils went 3-0-1 against the Bruins. 
“As you can tell, we don’t pick the teams,” said New Jersey's Jacques Lemaire, the most experienced and win­ningest postseason coach in this year' s playoffs. “It’s going to be a battle because we struggled against (the Flyers) all year.” 
TENNIS 

Injuries keep stars out of competition 
Associated Press 

CHARLESTON, S.C. — Aleksandra Wozniak and Alona Bondarenko both won in straight sets Monday at the Family Circle Cup, which is missing its typical star power because of injuries to several high-profile players. 
The top eight seeds had the opening day off in the green clay-court tournament, where three of the world’s top 30 players had pulled out. Top-ranked Serena Williams is recovering from a knee injury, defending champion Sabine Lisicki has a bum ankle, and three-time Grand Slam winner Maria Sharapova is still recov­ering from an elbow injury. 
Top seed Caroline Wozniacki, who drove 4 hours to Charleston immediately after winning the MPS Group Championships in Florida on Sunday, said this year’s field is still tough. 
“It’s been a great week,” she said. “I’m a little tired, but after get ready to play on clay. I feel ready. I feel motivated and I’m healthy,” said Jankovic, who won the Family Circle Cup in 2007, and along with 2006 winner Nadia Petrova are the only two former champions in the field. 
The tournament began slow­ly Monday with just two seeded players taking the court. 
The 12th-seeded Wozniak fended off six set points in the second-set tiebreaker during her 6-3, 7-6 (9) win over Osterloh, an unseeded American. 
Wozniak took the first set 6-3 and was leading 4-1 with two breaks in the second set, before Osterloh broke in two of the Canadian’s next three serv­ice games. She fought off five match points on her serve, then two more match points in the next game to win back her second break. 
The two headed into the tiebreaker, where Osterloh took a 6-3 lead, but she could-n’t close out the set. 

last week, it was “I’m not feeling any Wozniak worth it (to make came back 
pressure. It’s 
the trip to South with three 
important you
Carolina).” straight Last year, concentrate on what points and Wozniacki made the two trad­
you’re doing.” 
the finals in ed winners Charleston as the u n t i l
Caroline Wozniacki 
No. 5 seed and Wozniak won was ranked 12th tennis player the last three in the world. Now points of the she’s up to No. 2 match on in the world rankings and the long rallies. top seed in a tournament for Ninth-seeded Bondarenko of just the third time in her the Ukraine had an easier time career. advancing to the next round, 
“I’m not feeling any pres-beating unseeded American sure. It’s important you con-Julie Ditty 6-4, 6-2. centrate on what you’re Bondarenko had her serve doing,” she said Monday. “You broken only once. It came in just have to hit the yellow the first set after she broke ball.” Ditty, and Bondarenko 
On the other side of the responded by winning the draw, No. 2 seed Jelena break back without losing a Jankovic is getting ready for point in the next game. her first clay-court event since Bondarenko lost only three last year’s French Open. She points in the final three games skipped Charleston last year. of the match, sealing the win 
“I’ve done a lot of sliding to with a 98 mph ace. 

Tuesday, April 13, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles gain experience in loss to No. 3 Chicago 

By MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
No. 3 Chicago demonstrated why its one of the top teams in the country by blanking the Belles, 9-0, in non-conference play Monday. 
Despite satisfactory perform­ances in the doubles competition, the Saint Mary’s (8-5, 2-1) was 
simply  overmatched  on  the  
court,  Belles  
coach  Dale  

Coming into the matchup with Saint Mary’s, the Maroons had won six straight, their longest streak of the season. 
What the Belles may have lacked in talent and expertise, they made up for in grit, Campbell said. 
“We fought hard,” he said. “We played well in doubles. We’re working more on the offensive game we’re trying to play.” 
In a season that is a gradual progression that culminates in the conference tournament, it is important to continually improve each and every match. The Belles will look at this match as a learning experience, a chance to identify what their weaknesses are in order to enhance their game. 
“We’re going to learn a lot from this match,” Campbell said. “It shows us we have to work really hard to compete at this level.” 
With stiff competition ahead, Saint Mary’s should be able to 
Campbell said. 

“We’re going to learn a 
“[Chicago 

lot from this match. It 
was] just play­ing at a really really shows us we high level,” 
have to work really
Campbell said. 

hard to compete at
“Their back-court hurt us this level.” with strong, agg ressive 
Dale Campbell
ground 

Belles coach
strokes.” 
draw from this loss both the physical improve­ments that need to be made as well as the emo­tional drive that usually follows from a tough defeat. 
“This is good training for our best competition in the MIAA,” Campbell said. 
Monday’s 
match was one of many tough opponents the Belles will face this week. On Wednesday Saint Mary’s will square off against Albion on the road and will then travel to face Kalamazoo on Saturday. 
“We played Albion close last year and had a good match against Kalamazoo,” Campbell said. “These are two of the very solid teams in the MIAA.” 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
Practice 
continued from page 20 
center Braxston Cave deliv­ered the first snap to Crist, with sophomore Zack Martin in position at left tackle and senior Taylor Dever at right guard. 
“I think we get closer [to picking the top five linemen] every day, but it’s going to be a never-ending process and it may even go into the season,” Molnar said. “I know Coach Kelly would love to settle us down into five main guys, but at this point it would be way too early to say that we found our five for the season.” 

The movement in the depth chart and the grasping of Kelly’s spread offense coin­cided with the removing of tape from each player’s hel­met, bearing his respective name. 
“It was symbolic. We’re progressing into a team,” Crist said. “Now we’re play­ing for the gold helmets and the University. I think even those little things, paying attention to detail, are sym­bolic of how we’re growing as a team and progressing as a team.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Split 
continued from page 20 
said. 
The Belles returned home after the sweep of Albion to host Alma in another MIAA doubleheader Saturday. Saint Mary’s won the first in remarkable fashion, winning 4-3 in the ninth inning. Peterson recorded the game-winning hit with a double to right-center field that drove in the winning run. 

Peterson became the first player in Saint Mary’s history to reach 200 hits in a career. She continues to help pace the Belles with her explosive offense statistics, many shat­tering school records. 
The Belles suffered a loss in the second game of the dou­bleheader, falling 13-5. The Scots jumped out to an early lead and never looked back. 
In their final day of action, the Belles lost both games as they traveled to Franklin. Part of the reason for their lack of success may be in part because of fatigue. The team had played four games in two days at two different fields before facing the Grizzlies. 
“Six games in three days was definitely physically and men­tally exhausting,” Sullivan said. “But we were battling with some lineup changes on Sunday and it just wasn’t our day.” 
But the final two games were not all bad news. 
Junior Hayley Bojorquez fin­ished off the record-setting weekend for the Belles. She set the single season home run record for Saint Mary’s by hit­ting her eighth home run of the season. 
The Belles will next host Adrian Thursday at 3:30 p.m. in another crucial MIAA battle. 
Contact Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 
NHL 

Erratic Penguins enter playoffs 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — The Pittsburgh Penguins are head­ing into the playoffs as the fourth seed in the Eastern Conference, just as they did when they won the Stanley Cup last season. 
Again, they usually win when Sidney Crosby and Evgeni Malkin show up frequently on the scoresheet, and often lose when they don’t. Dan Bylsma is still behind the bench. Marc-Andre Fleury remains in net. 
As far as similarities go, that’s about it. 
Unlike last year, when they jetted into the playoffs as one of the NHL’s hottest teams, going 18-3-4 in their final 25 games following Bylsma’s hiring, the Penguins are playing erratical­ly. After beginning the post-Olympic break with a four-game winning streak, they won successive games only once more in their final 16 games. 
The playoff opponent is very familiar — this is the third time in four seasons the Penguins and Ottawa Senators meet in the first round. Pittsburgh lost in five games in 2007, its first playoff appearance since 2001, but won in a sweep the follow­ing season. 
Maybe playing the dangerous Senators will “drive us into playing some good hockey,” center Jordan Staal said, start­ing with Game 1 on Wednesday night. 
The Penguins had only one challenging round while win­ning the Eastern Conference the last two seasons, needing seven games to eliminate Washington last year. In 2008, they lost only two games, one each to the Rangers and Flyers, in three rounds. 

The route to the finals appears to be much more diffi­cult this year. As challenging, perhaps, as it has been for the Penguins to “get to our game” — one of Bylsma’s favorite phrases and a rarely reached goal of late. 
“I like our guys in terms of being playoff tested and playoff proven,” Bylsma said. “We know how we are going to need to play.” 
The biggest concern: The Penguins’ inability to beat the conference’s top two teams. They lost all four to the Washington Capitals, two in extra time, and all six to the New Jersey Devils. Should the top four-seeded teams advance past the first round, the Penguins might have to beat both teams—each time without the home-ice advantage — to return to the finals for the third straight season. 
Even if a team went 10-0 against another, Crosby said it wouldn’t matter once the play­offs arrived. Regardless, the Penguins haven’t beaten Washington since Game 7 last year or the Devils in more than a year. 
Maybe fatigue is becoming a factor, even for a relatively young team that accumulated 101 points this season, the fifth-most in team history. The Penguins have played 290 games since October 2007, 246 in the regular season and 44 in the playoffs, with another two months of postseason games possibly remaining. 
Add on the Olympics for Canadian gold medalist Crosby and four other Penguins, and it’s probably beginning to seem like a season without end. 
Even with only two days between the end of the season and the start of the playoffs, Bylsma gave his team the day off on Monday. 
Challenging for a second Stanley Cup in as many seasons would seem to be incentive enough, yet the Penguins strug­gled down the stretch against non-playoff teams. They lost 1­0 to Atlanta on Saturday, 10 days after an even-worse 2-0 loss to Tampa Bay that led to a postgame team meeting and an 
8:30 a.m. practice on a sched­uled day off. 
As Staal said following the Atlanta loss, the Penguins cur­rently are missing “a whole bunch of things.” 
Is motivation among them? It’s easy for a team to say it can flick the switch and put its game into overdrive whenever it wants, something the Penguins did in April and May the past two years. Whether they can do it again may decide how deep into these playoffs they go. 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, April 13, 2010 
SMC GOLF 

Belles sweep weekend matches against Trine 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
No. 5 Saint Mary’s faced off against MIAA and in-state rival Trine twice this weekend, win­ning once in South Bend and once in Angola, Ind. 
The first dual meet was held at the par-75 South Bend Country Club in windy conditions that made low numbers hard to come by and made the round an exercise 

in course manage-“We showed the rest of Wednesday. ment. The Belles “That’s really 
the country that we’ve
were able to come what we need-
got what it takes to
away with a 353-ed, a good con­398 victory, led by make it.” fidence booster, junior Rosie because we’ve O’Connor’s 84. been playing 
Mark Hamilton 
Soph omore decently but 
Belles coach
Natalie Matuszak shot an 87, while junior Mary Kate Boyce finished with an 88. No Thunder golfers finished in the top three individual performanc­es, while senior Belles captain Perri Hamma fired a 94 to close out the scoring four for Saint Mary’s. 
Belles coach Mark Hamilton had a mixed opinion of the day overall for his squad. 
“Saturday was tough conditions and a tough golf course,” he said. “There were some glimpses of good, but it wasn’t quite there.” 
On Sunday, the Belles traveled to Angola to play in another dual meet with the Thunder on Trine’s Zollner Golf Course. Saint Mary’s took advantage of more favorable conditions and played aggressive­ly, resulting in a 22-stroke victory. The Belles finished with a score of 
Rebound 
continued from page 20 
host Chicago State today before traveling on the road for a three-game set with conference rival Seton Hall. 
“The guys are feeling snake bitten,” Irish coach Dave Schrage said after the loss. “I can under­stand that. We need something good to happen to build off of, 321 strokes to Trine’s 343. 
Boyce led Saint Mary’s by card­ing the day’s best round, a 74. O’Connor shot a 79, Hamma shot an 83 — with a 39 on the back nine — while Matuszak was the final scoring player with an 89. 
“[Sunday] we played really well,” Hamilton said. “We did bet­ter on Sunday.” 
Hamilton said he was especially pleased with the fact that the pair of dual wins came heading into the first NCAA qualifier 
not putting 
good scores 
up,” Hamilton said. “We showed the rest of the country that we’ve got what it takes to make it.” 
Hamilton said he wants his squad to continue to minimize mistakes in order to continue to improve. 
“We’re really working on elimi­nating big numbers and staying in every hole,” he said. “The focus was what improved over the weekend, allowing us to perform up to the ability that we’re capa­ble of.” 
The Belles look to continue to improve on Wednesday at Medalist Golf Club in Marshall, Mich., in the first MIAA NCAA qualifier. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
ial compared to those of Chicago State. The Cougars will travel to Frank Eck Stadium with a 1-22 record, including 19 straight losses on the road. The Irish line­up, which scored 19 runs against Rutgers, could have a big day against the struggling team. 
Senior first baseman Casey Martin and senior outfielder Ryan Connolly have led the Notre Dame offense, with each hitting .354 on the season. Connolly leads the team with six home-

and we’re still waiting for it. As a coach you’ve  “The guys are feeling snake bitten. I can  runs and 21 RBIs, and senior outfielder David  
got to keep posi­ understand that. We  Mills has driven  
tive and got to keep them think­ing they’re going to win.”  need something good to happen to build off of, and we’re still  in 20 runs on the year with a .350 average. The weak  
Senior pitcher Eric Maust  waiting for it.”  Cougars offense will also be a  
earned no deci­sion after pitch- Dave Schrage  welcome sight for Notre Dame  
ing eight innings  Irish coach  pitchers after a  

and giving up five runs. Maust had two strikeouts and did not issue a walk in the game. 
“Baseball is a game of a lot of ups and downs,” Maust said of the team’s inconsistency. “Our focus for each day this coming week is to key in on the things we can control.” 
While the Irish have struggled through a rough start to their season, their problems seem triv­rough weekend 
against the Scarlet Knights. The issues on the mound climaxed Saturday, when Rutgers roughed up Irish pitchers for 25 runs in a 25-5 pounding. 
First pitch today against the Cougars will be at 6:05 p.m. at Eck Stadium. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 


Bookstore 
continued from page 20 
game at 11-8. The second half was fiercely competitive. Both teams battled for every loose ball, every layup was strongly contested and the game got very chippy, even stopping briefly midway through the second half for a minor verbal disagree­ment. 
The physical nature of the second half played into Highlight’s hands, however. They opened the second half with a 4-0 run to take a lead they would not relinquish. Continuing to pound the ball inside, Highlight started seeing its layups drop while Trill start­ed cooling off from outside. 
Trill fought hard but simply couldn’t get its jumpers to fall late, and Highlight came away with a hard-fought win. 
Book it and Lock It 21, Don’t Foul, We’ll Sue 8. 
In a battle consisting mostly of law students, No. 3 Book It came away with an easy victory en route to what it hopes is many more victories. 
Seniors Mike Bramante and Pat McHugh, junior Aaron Nichols and law students Kieran Piller and John Rompf made up Book It, while first-year law stu­dents Andrew Doyle, Eric Klupp, Leonard Giannone, Harrison St. Germain and Michael Kiel suit­ed up for Don’t Foul. 
Book It held a distinct size advantage that it employed effectively on both ends of the court. On the attack, Book It relied on heavy doses of high passing, preferring not to drib­ble while imposing their will inside. In addition, they tried to force turnovers to get into fast-break situations. 
To counter Book It’s transition attack, Don’t Foul attempted to slow the game down in one of their many tactical adjustments. 

“We tried to out-tactical the other team,” Doyle said. “We figured, you know, with our law degrees, we could scheme up some plays. We didn’t execute great, but we at least tried it.” 
Book It displayed its superior athleticism throughout the game, succeeding on multiple dunk attempts on dribble drives and fast breaks, taking an 11-4 lead at halftime. 
The second half was more of the same, with Don’t Foul sink­ing the occasional jump shot but being generally unable to crack the Book It defense. 
Book it continued to dominate, especially on the boards, where they denied Don’t Foul any sec­ond-chance opportunities while giving themselves second, third and even fourth chances. In the end, their size, length and ath­leticism overwhelmed Don’t Foul, and Book It moved on to the next round in a 21-8 victory. 
Farquad Farthest 21, Options without Futures 16 
With a strong transition game, the athletic lineup of Farquad Farthest made a second half surge to beat Options without Futures. 
Farquad Farthest consisted of freshman Bo Brinkman, sopho­more Ben Mall, and juniors Kris Kast, Mike Sobolewski and Sam Russ. 
Brinkman fought off a sprained ankle to pace the team with five points. 
“It’s Bookstore Basketball, you have to play through anything,” Brinkman said. 
Options without Futures led 13-10, but Farquad Farthest took control of the game with an 8-0 run early in the second half. 
Staff members Mike Cook, Chris Gehring, Dave Ludwig, Brian Patterson and Pete Murphy made up the Options without Futures squad. 
“It was a good game,” Gehring said. “They had the size advan­tage. It was hard fought, but we couldn’t pull it out.” 
Farquad Farthest will play their next game Friday night. 
Intimidation 21, No Billy Mays Quick Chop for Us 4 
The gameplan for Intimidation was to run early and often in order to reach the next round of the tournament, and that is exactly what they did in their victory over No Billy Mays Quick Chop for Us. 
Junior Rob Wilson and sopho­more Mike DeRusso each dropped six points in the win­ning effort. Sophomore Matt Lemanski added four points, freshman Jonathan Fisher scored three and freshman Keith Marrero scored two. 
“It was a lot of fun out there,” Intimidation captain DeRusso said. “It was a beautiful night for the game. We played well tonight and I’m happy with what we did.” 
DeRusso hit several outside shots, including the clincher. 
“My teammates were finding me for the open shot, so I kept shooting it,” he said. “They had confidence in me so I kept put­ting them up and a few went in.” 
Fisher’s tough defense helped the team get opportunities to run the fast break. 
“We hustle, get the rebound, try to release quick and make a mismatch with our speed,” he said. 
Wilson tied DeRusso for the team lead with six points. He fueled the team with his hustle and energy. 
“I really want to run all day,” he said. “We rely on hustle, ferocity, and Matt Lemanski’s good looks.” 
Intimidation advances to the next round and will play Friday night. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu and Andrew Owens at aowens1@nd.edu 


Tuesday, April 13, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Tuesday, April 13, 2010 page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Slow motion 
Irish adjusting to new practice tempo, scheme 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
The Irish have finally slowed down Brian Kelly’s frenetic pace. 
Figuratively, not literally. 
Now in the eighth of 14 practices before the Blue-Gold Game, sophomore quar­terback Dayne Crist and the rest of the Notre Dame offense have started to grasp the plays well enough to not be flustered by the quick tempo of practice under Kelly. 
“The speed of what we’re doing is something we haven’t really seen before,” Crist said. “But I think now that we’ve practiced it guys are starting to get a feeling for it. It’s definitely not slow­ing down greatly, but it’s slowing down enough for guys to apply their knowledge of plays and schematics on the field.” 
Offensive coordinator Charley Molnar echoed Crist’s comments. 
“The last two practices they are starting to show that they understand working at the tempo that we want them to,” Molnar said. “They under­stand our base protections, our base runs, our base for­mations. [The offense is] real-


JULIE HERDER/The Observer 
Sophomore quarterbacks Dayne Crist, left, and Nate Montana drop back to throw during drills 

at Notre Dame’s eighth spring practice Monday.  
ly starting to play now with  ior Duval Kamara and junior  certainly possesses the skill  
the effort that we ask them  Michael Floyd.  set that we’re looking for.  
to.”  “TJ has been very consis­ We’re going to give him every  
Monday’s offensive first unit  te nt since the f i r st da y of  oppo r t un ity t o l e arn an d  
showed some of the changes  pra ct i c e ,” M o l na r s aid.  mature and kind of become a  
K e lly spok e of a fte r  “[Jones] very rarely drops the  redshirt freshman in the fall.”  
Saturday’s two-hour scrim- ball, very rarely makes a mis- On the offensive line, junior  
mage. Early enrollee Tai-ler  take. Beyond the fact that  
Jones lined up alongside sen­ he’s brand new to football, he  see PRACTICE/page 17  

SMC SOFTBALL 
Busy Belles win three, drop three 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary’s split six games in a marathon weekend, sweeping Albion 13-12 and 10-2 in six innings, splitting against Alma with a 4-3 win in nine innings and 13-5 loss in five innings and losing two contests to Franklin 6-3 and 18-7. 
The Belles (16-12, 5-1 MIAA) began the weekend with a trip to Albion (15-9, 4­0), where they outscored their opponent by nine runs over the two games. Senior Ashley Peterson had a career series against Albion, as she shat­tered numerous Belles’ records. 
Peterson set Saint Mary’s records for career home runs and career hits in the series, finishing the day going 7 for 9 at the plate with three homers and three doubles, while driv­ing in 11 runs. 
These accomplishments earned Peterson the MIAA Position Player of the Week honors. 
“Ashley Peterson’s five home runs on Friday and Saturday were so clutch and showed how great a hitter she really is,” Belles coach Erin Sullivan 
see SPLIT/page 17 


BASEBALL 

Team looks for turnaround 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Senior Sports Writer 
After dropping three straight Big East series to open up con­ference play, the Irish are look­ing for things to start going their way. 
It looked like Notre Dame might finally have its break­through Sunday, tied with Rutgers 6-6 in the bottom of the ninth in the deciding game of the series. Junior shortstop Mick Doyle belted a pitch deep to left field, but the ball came down just short of the fence into the hands of a Scarlet Knight out­fielder, and Rutgers scored in the 11th inning for an 8-6 win. 
After the crushing loss and still trying to find some consistency in Big East play, the Irish will 
see REBOUND/page 18 

SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer Junior shortstop Mick Doyle throws to first base during Notre Dame’s 8-6 loss to Rutgers on Sunday. 

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Here’s the Highlight defeats Team Trill 21-16 
By ALLAN JOSEPH and 
ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writers 

Team Trill came up against a significantly bigger and longer team in Here’s the Highlight, and though they kept it close for most of the contest, fell 21­16 when they could not get shots to drop at the end of the game. Highlight, consisting of juniors Steven Bonomo, Kyle Tennant, Matt “Rodman” Kadich, Matt Stolze and Tony Rizzo, used their length to block and alter many of Trill’s early shots, especially when Trill tried to attack inside early in the game. 
Trill, consisting of sophomore Mike Burton and freshmen Connor Ryan, JP Sullivan, Armani Sutton and James Yurkovich, could muster noth­ing offensively early but were not punished, as Highlight missed multiple open looks early in the game. Trill began to adjust its offense to their opponents’ size, switching to a dribble-drive-kick offense that opened up jump shots, espe­cially for Yurkovich and Sullivan, while contesting every one of Highlight’s shots in an effort to keep pace. 
The strategy worked, as the game was neck-and-neck for the majority of the first half before Trill reeled off two con­secutive fast-break layups to open up their largest lead of the 
see BOOKSTORE/page 18 






