the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Green Summit uncovers ‘footprint of food’ 


Chef: Notre Dame makes a difference with marine stewardship seafood 
By CARLY LANDON 
News Writer 
The food that you eat can be the greatest source of nourishment or the slowest form of poison, members of the Notre Dame community discussed at yesterday’s Green Summit. 
This year’s Green Summit, titled “The Footprint of Food,” was the third annual event presented by the Office of Sustainability. 
Green Summit III opened with welcoming remarks from Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves, followed by a keynote address by Executive Chef Don Miller. 
“An important thing to gain from today is awareness of what is happening,” Miller said in his keynote address yesterday. 
Miller focused on seafood and sustainability within marine life in his speech. 



Tickets run for Class Councils 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Seven tickets have been approved to run for Class Council. For Senior Class Council, two tickets have been approved, Junior Class Council, two tickets, and Sophomore Class Council, three tickets. 
The elections will take place online from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. today. 
Sophomore Class Council • Brett Rocheleau, Kevin Doherty, Kathleen Kehl, Patrick Adams 
Experience with student gov­ernment at Notre Dame sets Brett Rocheleau’s ticket apart from the others in the running for Sophomore Class Council, he said. 
Rocheleau, currently the treasurer for Freshman Class Council, is running alongside Kevin Doherty, Kathleen Kehl and Patrick Adams to represent the Class of2013 nextyear. 
“Our biggest event would be ‘Domecoming,’ a homecoming dance for the sophomore class similar to those held at other colleges,” Rocheleau said. 
Some of the major plans incorporated in their platform also include class trips to Chicago andCedar Point amuse­ment park as well as a campus-wide poker tournament. Rocheleau said he hopes to see the sophomore class hand out free energy drinks during finals week. 
see COUNCILS/page 4 

Scientists embrace their inner geek 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
For Notre Dame students who love science, the sec­ond annual Geek Week is a can’t-miss series of science-and math-related events. 
Geek Week, which kicked off Monday with a Geek Family Feud hosted by Notre Dame’s chapter of the American Chemical Society, will continue through Friday and conclude with the “Beauty and the Geek” dance that evening at 8 p.m. 
see GEEK/page 6 

“At Notre Dame, we decided we do want to make a differ­ence and lead the way with marine stewardship foods,” Miller said, “Now over 25 percent of seafood purchases are marine stewardship approved.” 
Senior Connor Kobeski gave the prayer, asking that we “show respect for the food that is our life-giving food” and remember to give food to the hungry “not just one day but every day.” 
Discussions about sustain­ability took place between participants, with attendees moving between four tables at which they spent 15 min­utes each discussing new top­ics. The four topics discussed were seafood, food and cli­mate change, food waste and local food. During the discus­sions, a different course of a sustainable, low-carbon emis­sions food was served at each table. 
Members of the Notre Dame community who attended the event were especially inter­ested in knowing where their food came from and knowing what they were putting in their bodies. 
“I really liked the aware­ness in the dining halls about sustainability and healthy eating but it’s a lot harder liv­ing off campus, especially because you can’t go to the store every day or every two days even as a college kid so you have to settle for frozen,” senior Timothy Thayer, one of the participants, said. 
“Healthy choices are diffi­cult,” sophomore Connor Skelly said. “Take Whole Foods, or as my dad calls it ‘Whole Salary.’ It might sell the best foods for you, but it’s also the most expensive.” 
At each table, discussion leaders also had handouts for participants ranging from recipe cards for healthy 
see GREEN/page 3 


Olympicsofferstudents neededbreakfromclass 
Favorite sports to watch include skiing, skating 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 

While students face aca­demic challenges on Notre Dame’s campus in South Bend, their minds are easily distracted by the athletic challenges of the Winter Olympics taking place now in Vancouver, British Columbia. 
Freshman Peter Kerrian paired engineering work with online recaps of curling matches during his study breaks. 
“I have learned a lot about curling because I’ve been watching it on my computer for the past few days,” Kerrian said. “I think I could go out to play it and under­stand the rules.” 
Student favorites tended to include sports less obscure and more intense than curl­ing. Junior Aryelle Emison watched the United States hockey team upset the Canadians in a surprise vic­tory Sunday. 
“The game was so intense,” she said. “Everyone was really excited.” 
The intensity of the compe­tition in the Winter Games draws fans to high-profile events such as speed skating and downhill skiing. 
“The Winter Olympics are more exciting because so many of the sports have a chance of death,” sophomore Steph Lowe said. “You really get a sense of the passion and the competition because these athletes put their life on the line for their sport.” 
Freshman Ally Scalo main­ly follows pairs ice skating and downhill skiing. She mentioned gold-medal-win­ning American skier Lindsey Vonn as one of the athletes that she is following in par­ticular. 
“The Winter Olympics are fun to watch but they are a lot of random events just thrown together,” Scalo said. “I’m mostly a fan of the Summer Olympics.” 
Preferences between the Summer and Winter Games tended to vary between stu­dents’ home environments. 
“I prefer the Summer Olympics because I’m from Australia,” senior Xavier Burton said. “And we always have more representatives in 
see OLYMPICS/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Women’s Awareness Week page 3  Women’s lacrosse page 24  Students abroad catch ‘Vampire Weekend’ in Berlin page 14  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Tuesday, February 23, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHO IS YOUR FAVORITE ATHLETE IN THE 2010 WINTER OLYMPICS?
INSIDE COLUMN 
Don’t worry, 
be happy 
What’sasix-letterwordfortheone thingthatpermeateseveryaspectofacol­legestudent’slife,perpetuallyhangsover yourheadliketheovercastweatherin SouthBendandrefusestodisappearafter thetrialsandtribula-
Kristin Durbin
tionsofcollegelife areathingofthe past? News Wire 
Stress. Editor 
Theworditself sendschillsdownmy spine,andyettheconceptitrepresents remainsaninevitable,integralpartofmy dailylifeasaNotreDamestudent. Planningmyscheduleamonthinadvance andattemptingtowritepapersearlier thanthenightbeforethey’reduemight temporarilyrelievemyanxieties,butgen­eralizedworryfollowsmearoundlikethat friendnobodylikes. 
Weallknowwhatstressfeelslike,and we’veexhaustedawidevarietyofstress reliefremedies:workingout,eatingchoco­late,ventingaboutstresstoafriend,wast­ingourlivesonFacebook,laughingabout nothingforanextendedperiodoftime andembracingtheblessingthatisthe weekend.Unfortunately,nearlyallthese methodsaretemporarycures,lingering justlongenoughtocatchaglimpseof whatourliveswouldbelikewithout stress. 
DespitethefutileattemptsI’vemadeat simplifyingmylife,theunyieldingstream oftests,papers,activitiesandeventsthat fillmyweeksisoddlycomforting,acon­stantreminderofmy(generally)good workethicandhowitgotmetowhereI am. 
Throughouthighschool,Icrammedmy dayswithalmosteveryimaginable extracurricularactivity,fromsoftballand showchoirtobandandstudentgovern­ment.Miraculously,Imanagedtosucceed academicallyeventhoughIspentthe majorityofmytimeinsidethebeigebrick wallsofmyhighschool. 
Onthebrightside,mydauntingsched­uletaughtmetomanagemytimebycom­partmentalizingmylifeintochunksof time.I’veappliedthismethodtomyfirst semesterandahalfofcollege,achieving relativesuccess.Ihavemorefreetime nowthanIdidinhighschool,butthose extrahourssometimesseemtomeltinto nothing.Still,theoverarchingfeelingof beingoverwhelmedbyfutureeventsper­sists,leadingmebacktomyoriginal dilemma:howcanyoumakestressevapo­rateintothinairforever? 
Asofrightnow,Ihaven’tfoundawayto accomplishthatloftygoal. 
Iwouldn’tcallmyselfanexpertonstress relief,butIhaverealizedafewthings aboutstressandhowtopostponeitsonset: 
Don’tsweatthesmallstuff.It’seasier saidthandone,butbeingbitteraboutthat A-minusinpsychwon’thelpyouinthe longrun. 
Maketimeforyourself.Watchamovie, listentomusic,readabookorexercise. Justsetasidesome“me”timeoncein awhile. 
Talktosomeoneaboutit.Ventingses­sionswithfriendscanlightentheloadof stress. 
Havefun!Gooutonweekends,spend timewithfriendsandtakeadvantageofall theopportunitiesNotreDamehastooffer. 
Whenstressgetsyoudown,justtake GaryGo’sadvice:“Gottalookmyselfinthe eye,andsayit’sgonnabealright.” 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Kristin Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

Mitch Gainer 
sophomore Keenan 
“That one Russian chick ... I dig accents.” 

Annie Castner 
freshman 
Pangborn 
“Apolo Ohno.” 

Kaity Veenstra 
sophomore Lyons 
“Lindsey Vonn.” 


Andrew Ofsonka 
sophomore Keenan 
“Nicole Joraanstad.” 

Mike Wiederecht 
sophomore Keenan 
“Debbie McCormick ... curling’s where it’s at!” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Chinese dancing tigers perform at the Notre Dame Chinese Friendship Association in celebration of the Chinese Spring Festival welcoming the Year of the Tiger Sunday. 
OFFBEAT 
Great Dane sets Guiness record for tallest dog 
TUCSON, Ariz. — A 250­pound blue Great Dane from Arizona gives new meaning to the term “big dog.” Guinness WorldRecords says Giant George from Tucson is the tallest dog ever on record. Guinness said Mondaythathestands3feet, 7 inches tall from paw to shoulder, which is three-quarters of an inch taller thanhisclosestrival—Titan, awhite GreatDane from San Diego. 
The 4-year-old Titan took the title of world’s tallest dog in 2009 after Gibson, aGreat Dane from Grass Valley, Calif.,diedofbonecancer. 
Guinness officials say there were conflicting reports about Giant George’s height, so they sent a judge to verify it. 
The 4-year-oldis ownedby DavidNasser. 
Photographer causes delay in women’s luge race 
WHISTLER, British Columbia —Aphotographer caused adelayduring acru­cial moment of the women’s luge competition on Tuesday when he accidentally knelt on a switch that sent water spurtingontothetrack. 
Germany’s bronze medal-list Natalie Geisenberger was just about to push off for her fourth run down the Whistler course when a red warning light flashed at the starting gate — causing a two-minutedelay. 
“It was a hold put on the track as a result of a hydrant being accidentally activated, spraying water on the track. It was a obviously a matter of safety for the athlete,” race director Ed Moffatsaid. 
Geisenberger, who did not make a fuss over the inci­dent,missedsilverbyafrac­tionofasecond. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight wednesday thursday 

IN BRIEF 
An exhibit titled “All Art is Propaganda” will open at 8 
a.m. 
today in Room 102 of Hesburgh Library. 

“Expanding the Boundaries: Selected Drawings from the Yvonne and Gabriel P. Weisberg Collection” will be hosted in the O’Shaughnessy Galleries West of the Snite Museum of Art beginning at 10 

a.m.
 today. 


Daily Mass will be held in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 11:30 a.m. and 5:15 
p.m. today. 
The Kellogg Institute will host “Living by the Sword and Dying by the Sword?: Leadership Transitions in and out of Dictatorships” today in Room C103 of the Hesburgh Center. The lecture will begin at 12:30 p.m. 
“Prospects for Peace in Israel-Palestine” will begin at 4 p.m. in the Sorin Room of LaFortune Student Center. The seminar will be sponsored by the Notre Dame Inernational Security program and co-sponsored by Student Government. 
Bengal Bouts semifinals will begin at 7 p.m. tonight in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. General admission is $6. 
Eric Coble’s play “Natural Selection” will premiere at 
7:30 p.m. tonight in the Regis Philbin Studio Theatre in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Student tickets are $10. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to 

friday saturday 

Atlanta 54 / 35 Boston 58 / 36 Chicago 34 / 21 Denver 40 / 19 Houston 49 / 42 Los Angeles 67 / 48 Minneapolis 21 / -4 New York 39 / 36 Philadelphia 42 / 34 Phoenix 66 / 46 Seattle 57 / 42 St. Louis 38 / 20 Tampa 70 / 51 Washington 47 / 36 
Tuesday, February 23, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Saint Mary’s celebrates women’s appreciation 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s College will show its appreciation for women and raise awareness to some of the problems they face through the annu­al Women’s Appreciation Week. 
Saint Mary’s College Student Diversity Board (SDB) sponsors the week, which began Monday and will run through Friday. 
Women’s Appreciation Week is being held to “cele­brate and empower women on our campus,” Sarah Ridley, a senior and one SDB’s women’s issues rep­resentatives, said. 
Senior Gretchen Moore is also one of SDB’s women’s issues representatives. 
The opening event for the week was a booth in the Student Center Atrium where members of SDB handed out free buttons in honor of women. Buttons were passed out from 11 
a.m. to 1 p.m. and again 
from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. Ridley said the events have been planned to help alert students about mat­ters concerning women. 
“Student Diversity Board hopes to educate and raise awareness on women’s issues locally and globally,” Ridley said. 
SDB has planned a panel discussion for Tuesday titled “What it Means to be a Feminist.” The panel will consist of Bettina Spencer, Alice Siqin Yang, Stacy Davis and Terri Russ, who will give their perspective on feminism. The discussion will be at 7 p.m. in Conference Room F of the Student Center Basement. 
Wednesday, SDB will host an informational session about the Women’s Studies Program at the College fea­turing program coordinator Jennifer Zachman. Zachman will discuss Women’s Studies majors and minors during the ses­sion, which will be in Conference Room F in the Student Center Basement at 7 p.m. Current Women Studies students will also be present to speak with students about the pro­gram, Ridley said. 

Thursday, SDB will be hold an open breakfast in the Women’s Resource Center from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. 
Ridley said she believes the week is important because it allows women to be appreciated. 
“[The week is important because it] takes time for recognition and apprecia­tion towards the accom­plishments and progressive movement women have made, and are still making today,” Ridley said. “Also, [it is important] to cele­brate being a student at an empowering, all women’s college.” 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
Green 
continued from page 1 
choices made with low car­bon emitting foods or a seafood wallet card about making the right choices. 
The Green Summit III was sponsored by the Office of Sustainability in collabora­tion with ND Food Services. Co-sponsors included Student Government, GreeND, Students for Environmental Action, ND For Animals and Gluten Free ND. 
Contact Carly Landon at clandon@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 23, 2010 
in learning how to reach past ernment to make the Junior Class apparel would be In order to accomplish their the barriers that sometimes Class Council accessible to as upgradedto include awider and goals, this team promises to 
Councils 

confine us at Notre Dame,” many ideas form students as “nicer range of options,” includ-more fully include other student Bevington said. possible. ing polo shirts and zip-up jack-organizations and leaders out-
continued from page 1 

One of the featured events in ets, to fundlarger events for the side of studentgovernmentin its 
Rocheleau saidhis class would • John McKissick, Brianna their platform’s plans is aCEO class. decisions andprojects. host the annual Halloween Neblung, Alex Draime, Ian coffee talk where students can Some possible events include “We want to make sure that dance, a class tailgate before a Trudell sit down and speak with execu-a trip to the Indianapolis 500 what we do is for the whole home football game and aserv-John McKissick, Brianna tives from various companies to and aclass ball to replace Prom class,” Castellini said. ice project with St. Baldrick’s Neblung, Alex Draime and Ian learn from their input, Riddle on the Lawn. Day and Feed My Starving Trudell hope to build an identity said. Their platform also includes uKate Clitheroe, Cath Flynn, Children. for the Class of 2013 centered A quarter dog eating contest, service opportunities such as a Michael Wagner, Evan James 
around the relationships formed a spelling bee and a four-square class training day with the Celebrating senior year is the 
uRichard Bevington, Ashley between members of the sopho-tournament would also be on Human Society to make the focus of the platform presented Armendariz, Elliot Pearce, more class. the docket for a “useful skill service group more accessible to by candidates Kate Clitheroe, Sadaf Meghani “The main idea in our cam-decathlon” to bring students students. CathFlynn, MichaelWagner and 
Richard Bevington, Ashley paign is communication,” from different interest groups Ward also hopes to set up Evan James. Armedariz, Elliot Pearce and McKissick said. together. Junior Parents informal “office hours” for Class “We have been building our Sadaf Maghani hope to build an “Communication is huge Weekend, a focus for Junior Council in order for juniors to class community for a few years identity for the Class of 2013 because in something like stu-Class Council, would also have a relaxed forum to con-now,” Clitheroe said. “And we that is influencedbyits range of dent government, agreat idea include acharityball or auction tribute their ideas. hope to continue that process to opinions and interests, can do nothing if it is not in order to give backto the com-make it last through graduation Bevington said. heard.” munity. Senior Class Council andyears to come.” 
“We want there to be opportu-McKissick plans to create an In order to maintain aunified • Tim Castellini, Jessica Events planned by the Senior nities to break the bubble of our accessible and engaging Web Class of 2012, Riddle also hopes Leiferman, Brittany Johnson, Class Council would focus on campus and learn about what site for the sophomore class to to plan activities to better incor-Cole Patterson integrating students living off our community can offer us, helpfacilitate communication. porate and welcome students Tim Castellini, Jessica and on campus and emphasiz­whether that is taking alocal McKissick cited choosing a returningfrom study abroad. Leiferman, Brittany Johnson ing the more sentimental expe­white water rafting trip or just major and planning for study “As leaders we want to focus andCole Patterson plan to unify riences of senior year. learning what restaurants are in abroad as areas that his ticket on the things that are important the Class of 2011 during their Senior Week would include SouthBend,” Bevington said. hopes to highlight in its plans. but not leave any portion of the last year at Notre Dame if elect-not only traditions such as a 
The “Breaking the Bubble” One event on the agenda is a class out,” Riddle said. “As four ed as leaders of Senior Class Dunes trip and a Cubs game, platform centers on allowingthe stress-relieving dance called “A people, we have to put together Council. but also ahuge field day for Class of 2013 to explore the Night ofIndecision.” the ideas of all to allow for the “The main reason Iwant to seniors to represent their dorms world outside of campus and More transportation options dynamic of our class to devel-run for this is that, for me, it’s in one last competition. plans for interactive cultural for away games and more wide-op.” about making sure that our Throughout the year, Senior events, such as salsa dancing spread service opportunities are class leaves this place after hav-Class Council would also hope to lessons and cultural cuisine also important elements of • James Ward, William ing the best time it possibly host a beer and wine tasting or nights. McKissick’s platform. Thwaites, Tess Fitzpatrick, could and leaving it better than Margaritaville night. 
Class activities would also “We also want to commission Lauren Ruhling we foundit,” Castellini said. The four candidates also hope include a Disney movie night or work and projects by the Class Tackling financial hurdles and Castellini hopes for more class for the Class of 2011 to make a aspecial pep rally for the ath-of2013to unite and engage stu-creating an approachable stu-events in Chicago and anet-lasting contribution by support­letes ofthe sophomore class. dents as intellectuals,” dent government are among the working series to help students ing alocal organization during 
In order to encourage stu-McKissick said. challenges that James Ward, learn how to make connections its finalyear at Notre Dame and dents to share their thoughts for William Thwaites, Tess inside and outside of the Notre reunions in years to come. Class Council, Bevington would Junior Class Council Fitzpatrick and Lauren Ruhling Dame community as they pre-“Our ticket is really excited use idea boards and Class of uChase Riddle, Paul Moya, CJ plan to conquer as leaders of pare for graduation. because this is something that 2013 Stall Notes to post ideas Kelly, Megan Carey Junior Class Council. The ticket’s platform also we really care about,” Clitheroe and stay updated on student Chase Riddle and his running “We would like to plan bigger includes plans for a senior serv-said. governmentplans. mates Paul Moya, CJ Kelly and events and make them more ice competition to benefit the 
“We want to make the Class of Megan Carey will call on exten-affordable to students,” Ward Notre Dame and South Bend Contact Megan Doyle at 2013 a model for future classes sive experience in student gov-said. communities. mdoyle11@nd.edu 

World & Nation 
Tuesday, February 23, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Two buses crash, killing 38 
LIMA — Two buses crashed head-on along a remote stretch of highway in northeast Peru Monday,killingatleast38peopleandinjuring58, policesaid. 
Police and firefighters used cutting equipment to reach the injured trapped inside the twisted wreckage of the buses, which collided shortly before dawn on the Panamerican Highway betweenRioHondoandViru,290miles(485kilo­meters)northeastofthecapital. 
Noofficialcausewasgivenfortheaccident,but PeruviannewspaperElComerciopostedpictures showing that the stretch of highway where the accident took place lacked an obligatory white dividinglineseparatingtheopposinglanes. 
German pilots end strike 
FRANKFURT — Lufthansa and its pilots are settoreturntothecockpitaftertheGermanair­line and a key union agreed to halt a four-day strike thatdisruptedtravelers and was poisedto goonthroughFriday. 
Thefour-daywalkoutendedlessthan24hours after it began after two hours in a Frankfurt laborcourtthatsawbothsidesagreetosuspend thestrikeandholdtalks,theysaidMondaynight. 
Lufthansa confirmedthe decision and saidthe walkout would end at midnight (2300 GMT, 6 p.m.EST). 
“The parties agreed in front of the court that the strike is to be suspended through the 8th of March,” Lufthansa spokesman Andreas Bartels told AP, adding the 4,000 pilots will return to work Tuesday though it would take some time fornormaloperationstoresume. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
U.S. general creates Iraq exit plan 
WASHINGTON — The top U.S. general in Iraq said Monday he could slow the exit of 
U.S. combat forces this year if Iraq’s politics are chaotic following elections this spring. 
Gen. Ray Odierno said there are no signs that will be necessary, but he says he has a Plan B and told his superiors about it dur­ing Washington meetings over the past week. 
The U.S. has about 96,000 troops in Iraq nearly seven years after the American-led invasion that overthrew dictator Saddam Hussein. That’s the lowest number of American forces in the country since the invasion. 
Under an agreement negotiated under former President George W. Bush, all com­bat troops are to leave the country by Aug. 31 although some 50,000 will remain behind to help train Iraqi security forces. 
The remaining support troops are to be gone by the end of 2011. 
Students to vote on new mascot 
JACKSON — Colonel Reb shall not rise again. That much is certain. 
The University of Mississippi dumped the mascot — a caricature of a white plantation owner — in a 2003 effort to distance the school from Old South stereotypes. It’s been without a mascot ever since. A vote Tuesday could change that. 
Students will have only two choices in the online referendum: yes, replace the colonel with something else — perhaps a riverboat gambler or a colonial soldier — or no, remain the only school in the Southeastern Conference without a mascot. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Governer considers presidential run 
INDIANAPOLIS — Indiana Gov. Mitch Daniels, who last year said he had no interest in running for president, now says he will keep the door open to a possible 2012 presidential run. 
The Republican told The Washington Post over the weekend that he has spoken with former president George W. Bush and others in recent months and agreed to keep an open mind about a White House bid. 
“Just to get them off my back, I agreed to a number of people that I will now stay open to the idea,” Daniels told the Post. 
IVORY COAST 

PM to annouce new government 
Move could end violent protests across the country after dissolution of old gov’t. 
Associated Press 
ABIDJAN — Ivory Coast’s prime minister said late Monday he will announce the composition of the country’s new government within 24 hours, a move that could bring an end to a week of violent protests sparked by the president’s dissolution of the former government. 
After a day of marathon meetings between the two sides, Prime Minister Guillaume Soro told reporters that the coun­tries “political players” had come to an agreement and that he planned to announce the details of the new government on Wednesday morning. 
His announcement came as at least two more pro­testers died Monday when an opposition demonstra­tion turned violent, deep­ening the political crisis that has gripped this nation of 20 million since its government was sum­marily disbanded by President Laurent Gbagbo earlier this month. 
The protests came after top opposition leaders refused to join a new coalition government, effectively stopping the formation of the govern­ment that had been expected to be announced Monday. Although the opposition has not yet made an official declara­tion, Soro spoke to reporters following a meeting of a council that includes the country’s top two opposition leaders. 
“I’m pleased to announce that these talks have come to fruition and have allowed the Ivoirian political players to come to an understanding to advance the process of exiting this crisis — and above all to bring peace to our country,” Soro said flanked by Gbagbo and Blaise Compaore, the pres­ident of neighboring Burkina Faso. 
Compaore, who had flown in Monday at the invitation of the opposition and has been acting as a negotiator between the warring factions, said that the talks had yielded “pos­itive results.” 


As of late Sunday, the opposition had refused to participate in a new gov­ernment with Gbagbo, whom they accuse of try­ing to cling on to power. The spat began when Gbagbo dissolved the gov­ernment claiming the elec­toral commission committ­ted fraud. The move will cause presidential elec­tions to replace him, which were due to be held no later than next month, to once again be delayed. 
The political dispute sparked protests in at least five cities across the country on Monday. 

During a protest in the northern Abobo district of Abidjan, an Associated Press Television News journalist said he saw two dead bodies being guarded by police. Alexandre Brou, a local pastor, also said he watched police severely beat several protesters. 
Bus driver Mema Camara said hundreds of young men started gather­ing early Monday morning, building barricades, cut­ting off all traffic and burning tires. They hurled stones at approaching cars before riot police used tear gas and fired into the air to disperse the crowds. 
“The police began beat­ing anyone they could catch,” he said. “We hid in our houses to avoid them.” 
Opposition supporter Ahmed Coulibaly said the police followed demonstra­tors into their houses and took them away. 
“We’re scandalized. We’re traumatized. It reminds us of the worst moments of the civil war,” he said. 
The West African nation has been divided between a rebel-controlled north and a government-con­trolled south since war broke out in 2002. The sides formed a unity gov­ernment in 2007 and were preparing for presidential elections when President Laurent Gbagbo dissolved the government on Feb. 
12. Presidential elections have been postponed every year since 2005, when Gbagbo’s term ended. 

Debate surrounds the saftey of raw milk 
Associated Press 
DES MOINES — Debate about the health attributes and risks of raw milk is spilling into statehouses and court­rooms across the country as propo­nents of unpasteurized dairy products push to make them easier for con­sumerstobuy. 
Supporters of the raw milk cause say pasteurization, the process of heating milk to destroy bacteria and extend shelf life, destroys important nutrients andenzymes. 
“We have new science today that shows raw milk contains ... enzymes that kill pathogens and strengthens the immune system,” said Sally Fallon Morell, president of the Washington D.C.-based Weston A. Price Foundation, a nonprofit group pushing forincreasedaccesstorawmilk. 
Enzymes and other nutrients are “greatly reduced in pasteurized milk,” shesaid. 
Public health officials disagree, say­ing raw milk carries an increased risk for bacterial contamination that can leadtoillnessandevendeath. 
More than 1,500 people became ill from drinking raw milk between 1993 and 2006, the most recent data avail­able from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Of those, 185 werehospitalizedandtwodied. 
The CDC said not all foodborne ill­nesses are reported, meaningthe actu­alnumberislikelyhigher. 

Fallon Morell said there also have been illnesses and deaths related to pasteurized products and that linking illnesses to raw milk is not an accurate assessment of the nutritional benefits ofdrinkingunpasteurizedmilk. 
The sale of raw milk is prohibited in 23 states, although seven of them let people get milkthrough so-calledherd­share programs, in which customers can buy ownership in a cow in return forrawmilkfromtheanimal. 
Retail sales of raw milk is allowed in ninestatesand19allowthesaleofraw milkfrom afarm directlyto an individ­ual. 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 23, 2010 
Geek 
continued from page 1 
in Jordan Hall. 
Senior Sarah Pastorek, the president of the Math Club, said the Geek Week provides students with an opportuni­ty to meet others who share their interests. 
“[Geek Week is] a great way to have students who are interested in different areas of science to do ‘geeky’ activities while get­ting to know others,” she said. 
Geek Week’s other activi­ties include a Dissection Night sponsored by the Biology Club today at 5:30 p.m., a chemistry demon­stration with Professor Seth Brown tomorrow at 7 p.m. and a Sudoku challenge sponsored by the Math Club Thursday at 8 p.m. All events will take place in the Jordan Hall of Science. 
According to sophomore Paul Baranay, social chair of the Biology Club, one of the main objectives of Geek Week is to bring together students from different dis­ciplines. 
“As far as Geek Week goes, I think it’s a really exciting collaboration between all the clubs in the College of Science,” Baranay said. “It’s a really exciting chance for people to get to know each other, because a lot of people in the differ­ence majors don’t really interact.” 
Junior Annette Ruth, co-president of the Biology Club, said although the vari­ous science clubs on campus hold many events separate­ly, they rarely combine forces and hold joint events. Geek Week aims to change that, she said. 
“You see a lot of the indi­vidual groups on campus doing their individual events, but you don’t really see them team up that much,” Ruth said. 
Baranay said another ben­efit of Geek Week is that it provides a more relaxed environment than the more traditional classroom set­ting. 
“It’s a chance for social­ization that wouldn’t be happening inside the class­room,” Baranay said. 
Another goal of Geek Week is to show non-science­majors that science isn’t only about academic work, but that it has a lighter side and can actually be fun, Ruth said. 
“I think students from other majors should defi­nitely come out to the events,” Ruth said. “I think sometimes people are afraid that it’ll be too rigid or aca­demic but it’s not. It’s really loose and laid back and fun.” 
Pastorek said Geek Week’s events are a chance for stu­dents to learn that science is interesting and stimulat­ing. 
“Hopefully students can see the exciting side of sci­ence during Geek Week,” Pastorek said. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 
Olympics 
continued from page 1 
those events.” 
It’s not just the competi­tion that draws students to watch the Olympics. 
“The whole Opening Ceremonies is there as a spectacle,” Burton said. “I like the way that it can communicate a country’s culture.” 
Burton has never partici­pated in any of the winter sports featured in Vancouver but if given the chance to be an Olympic athlete in the Winter Games he would want to compete in skeleton events. 
Sophomore Hal Melia felt a stronger connection with the winter sports going on in Vancouver because of his home in Ohio. 
“I like the Winter Games because they create a con­nection with areas that have a lot of snow and not much else,” Melia said. 
Not all students, however, have had the time to avidly follow the Games. Freshman Alison Collins admitted that she has not watched much of the cover­age outside of the Opening Ceremonies. 
“I wish I was watching the events,” Collins said. “I do not really want to watch people run or row a boat in the Summer Olympics, but I like pretty much everything from the Winter Games.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Mendoza announces conservation speaker 
Special to The Observer 

Prompted by concerns over urban sprawl and loss of open land space, land conservation finance is the subject of a new spring speaker series spon­sored by the Mendoza College ofBusiness. 
The Hartman Series in Land Conservation Finance features experts in land conservation strategies and discussions on topics including conservation-oriented development prac­tices, the for-profit conserva­tion industry, public capital, tax incentives and local initia­tives aimed at land conserva­tion. 
While sustainable develop­ment practices such as smart growth, brown field reclama­tion and urban in-fill develop­ment have gained momentum, there also has been an explo­sion of programs and impor­tant funding mechanisms to protect open spaces directly. 
“This series is going to look not only at some trends in real estate and land use practices, but we’re also looking at the mechanisms that conserva­tionists use to conserve land,” said David Hutchison, director of the Opus Corp. Real Estate Program at the Mendoza College of Business. “Primarily, we’re going to look at the financing structures that are available because ultimately, the money is a crit­icalpart ofthis process.” 
Lectures, which are free and open to the public, willbe held at 7 p.m. in 210 DeBartolo Hall. The schedule is as fol­lows: 
uFeb. 
24 — Story Clark, a land conservation strategy and finance specialist from Conservation Consulting 

uMarch 
3 — Peg Kohring, Midwest director of The Conservation Fund, a group dedicated to land and water conservation 

• 
March 24 — Kathy DeCoster, vice president of the Trust for Public Land, a national nonprofit land con­servation organization that conserves landfor parks, com­munity gardens, historic sites and rurallands 

uMarch 
31 — John Turner, the Beverly and Eldon Spicer Visiting Professor of Environmental and Natural Resources at the University of Wyoming 

• 
April 14 — David Hutchison, finance assistant professional specialist and director of the Opus Corp. Real Estate Program at Notre Dame 


The Hartman Series is sup­ported with funding provided by Mary Louise Campbell Hartman in memory of her late husband Charles M. Hartman, a 1963 Notre Dame graduate and pioneer in the field of conservation financing. 


The Observer 
Business

Tuesday, February 23, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

IN BRIEF 
Doctor pleads guilty to fraud 
BOSTON — A Massachusetts doctor has pleaded guilty to one count of health care fraud stemming from accusations that he faked research in published studies that sug­gested after-surgery benefits from painkillers including Vioxx and Celebrex. 
Anesthesiologist Scott Reuben also agreed during Monday’s plea hearing to repay more than $360,000 of research grants and forfeit assets worth at least $50,000. 
Federal prosecutors have recommended up to 10 years of prison. Sentencing is set for May 24. 
Prosecutors allege the former chief of acute pain at a Springfield hospital received research grants from pharmaceutical compa­nies for a dozen years but never performed the studies. 
His attorney says Reuben was suffering from undiagnosed bipolar disorder and had no financial motive. 
Wal-Mart acquires Vudu Inc. 
NEW YORK — Wal-Mart Stores Inc. said Monday it will buy broadband entertainment provider Vudu, a deal that gives the world’s biggest retailer the ability to sell movies directly through TVs and Blu-ray players over the Internet. 
With the acquisition, Wal-Mart returns to the video-on-demand business, which it tried in the past but failed. Its most recent attempt, offering movie downloads, ended in 2007 after less than ayear. 
Wal-Mart did not disclose the terms of the newestdeal. 
Vudu Inc.’s technology can deliver video to consumers who have broadbandInternet access andownanInternet-readyTVorBlu-rayplayer. 
Since August, Vudu has offered its service on LGandMitsubishi-madedevices. 
In January, Vudu announced it had expanded its partnership deals to Sanyo, Sharp, Toshiba and Vizio. And it said it planned to launch an application platform that would include apps from Facebook, Flickr, Twitter, The New York TimesandTheAssociatedPress. 
Vudu has licensing agreements with major movie studios and distributors for about 16,000 movies. Its movies cost $3.99 to rent or $19.99 topurchase. 

Toyota Motor Corp. subpeonaed 
Federal prosecutors suspect misleading of consumers, criminal investigation underway 
Associated Press  
WASHINGTON — Federal  
prosecutors have launched  
a criminal investigation into  
Toyota Motor Corp.’s safety  
problems and the Securities  
and Exchange Commission  
was probing what the  
automaker told investors,  
the company disclosed  
Monday. Newly released  
internal documents showed  
that Toyota officials visited  
with U.S. regulators years  
ago who “laughed and  
rolled their eyes in disbe­ 
lief”over safetyclaims.  
The twin developments  
created new public rela­ 
tions challenges for Toyota  
plus the prospects — how­ 
ever likely or unlikely — of  
hefty federal fines or even  
indictments against execu­ 
tives in the U.S. and Japan.  
They also complicate  
Toyota’s ability to discuss  
details driving its recall of  
8.5 million vehicles because  
anything executives say  
could be used against the  
company inside a court­ 
room.  
Top Toyota executives  
were expected to testify at  
hearings Tuesday and  
Wednesday on Capitol Hill.  
One lawmaker said he AP  
believed Toyota misled Toyota employee Linda Patrick installs an accelerator into a new Camry. Toyota received a  
owners about the repairs subpoena from a federal grand jury requesting documents related to recent recalls.  
and relied upon a hastily- 
arranged study to reassure  law violations or whether  walk a line between care- Stupak said a review of  
thepublic.  Toyota made false state- fully phrased testimony and  consumer complaints  
In a new filing with the  ments to a federal safety  enough disclosure to  shows company personnel  
SEC, Toyota said it received  agency involving unintend­ describe the cars’ mechani­ identified sticking pedals or  
the grand jury request from  ed acceleration or the Prius  cal problems and steps  floor mats as the cause of  
the Southern District of  braking system, said Peter  Toyota had taken to make  only 16 percent of the unin- 
New York on Feb. 8 and got  Henning, a law professor at  thevehiclessafer.  tended acceleration  
theSECrequestsFriday.  Wayne State University in  House investigators said  reports.  
It wasn’t immediately  Detroit. The SEC is seeking  they believe Toyota inten- Some 70 percent of the  
clear what U.S. laws Toyota  documents related to unin­ tionally resisted the possi­ acceleration incidents in  
might have broken. A sub­ tended acceleration as well  bility that electronic defects  Toyota’s customer call data­ 
poena would specify why  as to its disclosure policies  caused unintended acceler­ base involved vehicles that  
prosecutors sought compa­ and practices,Toyotasaid.  ation in their vehicles and  are not subject to the 2009  
ny documents, but Toyota  Legal experts said the  then misled the public into  and 2010 floor mat and  
would not comment beyond  fresh subpoenas could  thinking its recalls would  “stickypedal”recalls.  
its disclosure with the SEC.  affect how Toyota execu­ fix all theproblems.  In a letter to NHTSA,  
A spokeswoman with the  tives respond to the ques- Rep. Bart Stupak, D­ Stupak’s committee raised  
U.S. Attorney’s Office for  tionsfromlawmakers.  Mich., who will run  questions about whether  
the Southern District of  Eric Dezenhall, a crisis  Tuesday’s hearing, said  the agency lacked the  
New York declined to com- management consultant in  documents and interviews  expertise to review defects  
ment, saying it does not  Washington, said the sub- demonstrate that the com- in vehicle electronics and  
confirm or deny its investi­ poena might cause Toyota  pany relied on a flawed  said NHTSA was slow to  
gations as a matter of poli­ to limit its testimony  engineering report to reas­ respond to 2,600 com­ 
cy.  because apologies are  sure the public that it found  plaints of sudden unintend- 
The government could be  admissible in court. He pre­ theanswerto the problem.  ed acceleration from 2000  
looking into product safety  dicted the company would  In a letter to Toyota,  to 2010.  

Interest rates remain low to aid economy 
Associated Press consumer companies gave a cau-inflation could become a problem in 
tious outlook for economic growth. the future, affecting long-term inter-
CHARLOTTE — Short-term inter-Short-term rates are often dictat-est rates, Spinello said. Inflation is est rates inched lower in the bond ed by the federal funds rate, which one of the biggest concerns for bond market Monday after a Federal currently sits in a range between traders because it eats into the Reserve official reiterated that zero and 0.25 percent. If the Fed value of the fixed returns on bonds record-low interest rates are still follows through with keeping rates over time. needed to help the economy. low, then there should be no pres-The yield on the 10-year Treasury 
Rates rose and bond prices fell as sure to send short-term market note maturing in February 2020, Federal Reserve Bank of San rates higher. which is a basis for rates on mort-Francisco president Janet Yellen The yield on the two-year note gages and other consumer loans, became the latest Fed official to that matures in January 2012 fell to rose to 3.80 percent from 3.78 per-stress that the central bank isn’t in 0.89 percent late Monday from 0.93 cent. Its price fell 5/32 to 98 18/32. any rush to boost borrowing costs percent late Friday and its price Meanwhile, longer-term Treasury for millions of Americans. The rose 2/32 at 99 31/32. Yield and prices fell after a Treasury remarks come after the Fed took a price move in opposite directions. Department auction of $8 billion in surprise step Thursday and bumped “There wasn’t a lot of activity, it 30-year Treasury inflation protected up the discount rate, the interest was a very quiet day, today,” said securities, or TIPS, drew weaker banks pay for emergency loans. John Spinello, a bond strategist at demand than an auction for 10-year 
On Monday, stocks ended the ses-Jefferies & Co. TIPS last month. Prices often fall as sion with a modest loss after big However, as the economy grows, new supply is added to the market. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 8 Tuesday, February 23, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper 
published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
John Tierney Meaghan Veselik Megan Doyle Megan Finneran Nikki Taylor Christopher Allen 
Graphics Scene 
Blair Chemidlin Jordan Gamble 
Viewpoint 
Lauren Brauweiler 

Democrats wave good-Bayh 
Indiana Senator Evan Bayh shocked Democrats and Republicans alike last week by suddenly announcing his retirement from the U.S. Senate. The moderate Democrat has held the seat since 1999, and most analysts agree that he was not at significant risk of losing reelection. 
“There is much too much parti­sanship and not enough progress,” he Christie declared in a Pesavento statement 

Right-Winging 
accompanying 
It
his announce­ment, “too much narrow ideology and not enough prac­tical problem-solving. Even at a time of enormous national challenge, the people’s business is not getting done.” 
Bayh’s given rationale for retire­ment strikes me as coming a bit late, given the fact that he has served as a senator for nearly a dozen years. Anyone who has spent that much time in either the Senate or Congress should have realized long ago that the partisan divide is deeply entrenched in our national consciousness and pervades our institutions. Not even Barack Obama has managed to forge consensus, and for good reason: His definition of bipartisanship requires Republicans to either bow to his liber­al agenda or be criticized for stubborn obstructionism and subsequently labeled “the party of ‘no.’” 
To be fair, the Republican Party still has yet to propose substantive alter­natives to Obama’s policies that gain national attention, mainly because it lacks coherent leadership. But because the Democrats control both houses of Congress and the presiden­cy, it makes it virtually impossible for the opposing party to set any sort of agenda, and thus Republicans are forced to muster what little power they have to defeat what they see as a dangerous encroachment by the national government into the lives of Americans. 
Ironically, however, it isn’t the Republicans who are blocking Obama’s legislative agenda. If that were the case, Democrats should have had no problem pushing through their bills with the overwhelming majorities they hold in the House and the Senate. Centrist, fiscally-conservative Democrats like Evan Bayh are the real stumbling blocks to proposals like the health care overhaul and cap-and­trade, which says something about Obama’s vision of bipartisanship. If members of his own party cannot swallow his far-left policies, how can he expect any Republicans to do so? 
Pundits and the public alike are apt to look at the gridlock in Congress and declare that the system is broken. Yet oddly enough, they forget that the Founders deliberately designed the legislative process in a way that would make it difficult for bills to reach the president’s desk. They did this specifi­cally to promote reasoned delibera­tion rather than the hasty passage of legislation based on the fickle whims of the masses that can easily be swayed by demagogues, especially in times of crisis. Obama tried to take advantage of his popularity early in his term, but squandered his political capital on a massive stimulus package that has received mixed reviews at best, leaving him little momentum to push his health care plan through Congress. The system is working, just not quite the way those who wish to expand the national government would like it. 
In light of their stalled efforts at health care reform, liberal pundits, in typical condescending fashion, have begun lashing out at the American people. They insist that their prob­lems stem from conservative misinfor­mation campaigns, poor presentation of their arguments, or, to use the words of Jacob Weisberg of Slate Magazine, “the childishness, igno­rance and growing incoherence of the public at large.” 

Excuse me, Mr. Weisberg, but didn’t that same group of “childish,” “igno­rant,” “incoherent” Americans elect Obama to the presidency just over a year ago? My how things change so quickly! 
Instead of pointing the finger of blame at Republicans and the public, perhaps Democrats should take time to reexamine their policy proposals and reevaluate their dismissal of con­servative ideas. Senator Bayh’s part­ing words of advice are especially per­tinent to this undertaking: 
“Our most strident partisans must learn to occasionally sacrifice short-term tactical political advantage for the sake of the nation. Otherwise, Congress will remain stuck in an end­less cycle of recrimination and revenge … What is required from members of Congress and the public alike is a new spirit of devotion to the national welfare beyond party or self-interest. In a time of national peril, with our problems compounding, we must remember that more unites us as Americans than divides us.” 
If Obama truly wants to promote bipartisanship, he must be just as willing to compromise as he expects Republicans to be. Otherwise he will be fighting against not only the American public, but the very system of government he has vowed to uphold. 
Christie Pesavento is a senior who is majoring in political science and sociology. She can be reached at cpesaven@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



OBSERVER POLL 
WhatareyourplansforSpring Break? 
I’mtoopoortogoanywhere Stayingherefortheweather GoingtoPuertaVallartawiththerest oftheSeniorclass Homesweethome 
VotebyThursdayat5p.m.at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Friendship is certainly the finestbalm for the pangs ofdisappointed love.” 
Jane Austen British novelist 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Tuesday, February 23, 2010 page 9 
People and power at Notre Dame and beyond 
The University of Notre Dame strives to develop not only great students but, global citizens, who, through their edu­cation, develop an understanding and commitment to seeking justice for the world’s oppressed. But it Barbara Vi Ho 
than just 
is more Andrew Seelaus 
talk, the University excels Ford Family at putting this Program mission into Human action through 
Development
the resources 
Conference 
and opportuni­ties that it offers to students each year. Like many of our peers on campus, we have had the good fortune to live, study and work abroad in developing countries in a variety of capacities during our under­graduate career. These experiences have both shaped and challenged our understanding of human development, highlighting the dynamic nature of the concept and the need for critical evalu­ation of its practice. It was the very complexity of the idea that spurred both of us to become involved as co-chairs of this year’s Human Development Conference at Notre Dame. 
Although our experience abroad is limited, reflection has led us to identify an array of dichotomies that push us to question current development practices around the world. In northern Uganda, the Acholi people are a society with a rich culture and tradition and a strong sense of solidarity, but are bombarded by constant local and international messages of their powerlessness. In some regions of Ghana, the NGOs and mission groups seeking to “help the poor” or “spread the good news” are outnumbered only by the number of children who are consumed by the cycle of poverty every year. There is definite need around the world, but what is the best way to go about affect­ing change? Where is the line between the obligation to help, the danger of imposing our own culture and notions of what is right? How can we find the right balance between working for the common good without taking away the agency and power of the local people? 
Our distinct experiences allow us to bring one small part of the answer to these questions, but they are by no means a full answer. In order for any development effort to be successful, the voices of every individual involved must be heard and considered. Authentic human development requires the knowledge and work of engineers just as much that of peacebuilders. It requires the commitment of business owners, architects and artists. It requires the involvement of interna­tional and local people alike. This is the fundamental inspiration for this year’s conference theme, People, Power and Pragmatism: The Future of Human Development in Our Changing World. The enormous task of alleviating pover­ty and realizing authentic human development is achievable only with the participation of people and leaders from all different levels and fields on a global scale. 

The long-term goal is grand indeed but it is not impossible if we all realize just how much power lies within our­selves and each other. The Human Development Conference strives to employ multidisciplinary and collabo­rative approach to development that is consistent with the message of inter­connectedness in Catholic Social Thought and will inspire a diverse group of students and attendees. Please bring your experience and voice to the discussion Friday and Saturday at the Human Development Conference and see how your vision of the future of development compares to that of your peers from around the country. 
Barbara Vi Ho is a senior history and international peace studies major. Andrew Seelaus is a senior civil engineering major. The two are conference co-chairs. For more information, visit www.nd.edu/~hdc or email hdc@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
To the wage ‘experts’ 
Inthe“livingwage”debate,Ihaddecidedto sitinsilenceandlaughatallthesillycollege kidsthinkingtheyknewallabouttherealworld anda“livingwage.”ButIcan’tholditinwhen analumnuswithclearlyinsufficientexperience ofhisownimpliesMr.Easley’slackingexperi­enceisacounter-argument(“Getsomereal experience,”Feb.22). 
Mr.Witt,youattempttodebunkMr.Easley basedsolelyonhis(lackof)experience.Where, mayIask,isyours?I’massumingfromyourlet­terthatyouhaveagood“9-to-5”job.ButIdid notgleanfromyourletterifyouunderstand thatthefoodindustryisnoton“9-to-5”shifts. Workingtheeight-hourblockmakesitmuch hardertotakeasecondjob.Hence,itoftenpays better.Thefoodindustryhasvaryinghours, whichallowsworkerstoalternatejobsthrough­outtheweek,eitherbydayorbyshift.Your “experience”inthisissueisawholenine monthsofabetterjobthananynon-managerial foodworkerinAmerica.Youhaven’tevenbeen outofschooloneyear.Youhavenoexperience withlong-employedfoodworkers. 
Now,whyamInotjustanotherignorantcol­legekid?Thankstonotbeinginschoolforallof 2007,Iwasabletogetajobwaitingtables. Havingworkedduringbreaks,Ihaveaccumu­latedabout17monthsthere.Ihavenotonly waitedtables,butalsobussed,workedcarry­out,hosted,dish-tankedandworkedasan expo.Andyouknowwhat?Youcanliveoffofit. Idid.Ihadanapartmentforsixmonthsin 2007,andnotonlywasIabletoliveandeat comfortably,butIwasabletosaveextramoney. 
Thefactisthatyoucanliveon$9perhour,if you’resmartandcareful.Savingcanbejustas valuableasearning.Doyourbesttolimit/quit smoking.Don’tscrewaround(literally)and haveachildoutofwedlock.Limit/quitdrinking. ThesearejustafewthatIpickeduparoundmy co-workers.Therearemorewaystosave moneythatmostofuscan’tsee. 
Idonotclaimtobethewisestonthisissue. NorcouldI,simplybasedonmylimitedexperi­ence.ButIhavemorethanMr.Witt,Mr.Easley andnearlyalloftherestofyou.Timeswillbe tough;that’spartoflife.Butonecanliveoffof thistypeofjob,especiallyifyoutakeMr. Easley’sadvicebyworkinghardandseeking helpfromfamily. 
Douglas Schuda 
senior O’Neill Hall Feb. 22 
Eating Disorders Awareness Week 
In light of this week being National Eating Disorders Awareness Week, I would like to pose a challenge: start talking. 
Eating disorders, disordered eating and poor body image plague the lives of so many girls, women, boys and men. Although caus­es vary from person to person, and literature fails to agree on the exact etiology of eating disorders, they are often linked to underly­ing psychological disorders such as depres­sion and anxiety. Poor body image, disor­dered eating and eating disorders can begin to take over someone’s life, guiding behav­iors, decisions and affecting the quality of living. But it doesn’t have to be that way. 
Lives don’t have to be dominated by these; control doesn’t have to be lost in an effort to maintain it. Struggles with eating are often kept personal — arguably especially on this campus where everyone seems to have it all together. Admitting to have a problem leaves one extremely vulnerable, a feeling general­ly not well accepted. Challenge this. Being vulnerable yourself may create an environ­ment in which your friends can be vulnera­ble with you, in which they can share their 
struggles. 
Start talking. 
Start talking about worrisome behavior you notice in your friends: her new diet, his seemingly obsessive gym time. Talking cre­ates community. Community leads to support and support can cause someone to get the help that they may need. 
So my challenge is this: Listen to what your friends say about themselves. If it’s alarming, please say something. Your words of concern, out of compassion, could be the catalyst toward healing. Start listening and start talking. Start creating a community who understands and who cares. 
I challenge you to just say something. It might be the most difficult thing you’ve ever had to do, but just imagine what you could be in the life of someone you care about. 
Chelsea Slaggert 
senior off campus Feb. 22 

Exhibitions 
I write with regard to the recent article on the Eric Gill exhibi­tion at the Hesburgh Library. I have noticed that both The Observer article and a recent piece in ND Works make no explicit mention of Eric Gill’s troubling sexual behavior, in particular, the sexual abuse of his family members, that has been well-docu­mented by his biographer, Fiona McCarthy. I have not yet had the opportunity to visit the Special Collections exhibition but the irony of The Observer’s front page coverage of this display juxta­posed to the major article on Sexual Assault Awareness Week is rather bitter. Eric Gill was a fine artist and a deeply religious man but the way in which he attempted to integrate his art, polit­ical convictions, sexuality and family life does not offer a model worthy of emulation. We may admire his artistic talent and his religious and social convictions, but it is important to grapple also with the fact of his unbridled and exploitative sexual behav­ior. Acknowledging Gill’s hypersexuality will alter our perception of much of his imagery in a profound way. 
Dianne Phillips 
advisor to graduate students Institute for Scholarship in Liberal Arts Feb. 22 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The Observer 
Scene

page 10 Tuesday, February 23, 2010 
GermanyembracedadifferentVWthis namesplashedacrossmostmusic weekend—anAmericanexportthat magazines. provedjustaspolished,justasquickand However,thismeanslittletoan perhapsmoredependablethananything expedientmusicworldwhere circuitingtheautobahnoflate. “What’snext?”unfortunately 
VampireWeekend oftentrumps“Whatlasts?”(e.g. tookcenterstagein HasanybodyseenTheShinsinthree 
Colin Rich
EastBerlinFriday years?) nightastheband Thisallonlyservestoprovidetheback­


continueditsmonth-Scene Writer longEuropeantour. Thetourincludes19 stopsinallandwillwrapupbeforeMarch inpreparationforasimilarseriesof showsintheU.S. 
VampireWeekendburstontothecollege musicsceneinearly2008withtheirself­titleddebut.Theygrewtoalternative prominenceasaBrooklyn-basedindie bandcharacterizedbyAfro-popmelodies, orchestralbackingandleadsingerEzra Koenig’sPaulSimon-likewail.Withthe recentreleaseoftheircriticallyacclaimed secondalbum,“Contra,”thebandrup­tureditsbagofcross-culturalinfluences andcleanguitarsoundandpouredoutan albumwith,ifpossible,farmorecontours andcharmthanitspredecessor. 
IamanadmittedlymildVampire Weekendfanforacoupleofreasons,the firstofwhichisaquestionintheirmusic thatsuggeststheylackanidentity.Their youth(anevenmorepronouncedrealiza­tioninperson)andtheireclecticarrayof genres,instrumentsandstylisticnuances epitomizeabandthattossesalotatitslis­tenerswiththehopethatsomethingdif­ferentwillresonatewitheveryone. 
Twoalbumsdown,VampireWeekend coversmuchgroundintermsofsound andtheme,butadifferenceexists betweenconfidentmusicianshipand youthfulexpression.Thesecondreason liesinthefleetingnatureofsuccessinthe raceofalternativerock,andaquestionof theband’sstayingpower.Vampire Weekendcameinto2010intheindie musicpolepositionwithitscollegiate nichewellestablished,itsmusicsurfacing inTVadsandmoviesoundtracksandits dropfortheexciting,engagingand impressivelyenjoyableliveshowVampire WeekendputonlastFridayinBerlin. Theirsteadysetoscillatedbetweentheir newandnewermaterial,andthepacked “haus”towhichtheyplayedresponded withvigorousdelight. 
Builtonquick-hittingsingles,neither debut,“VampireWeekend”nor“Contra,” ostensiblyoffertheballadryfromwhichto launchafull-onlivejam,howeverthe showhitallofthetwoalbum’shighlights andconcludedwithasmoothblendof “Campus”and“OxfordComma.” 
Especiallynoteworthyperformances includedafoot-stomping“M79,”awan­deringandwild“Walcott”intheencore andarousingrenditionof“Boston,”aVW piecefromoneoftheirearliestEPs. Koenigstillneedstogrowintohisskinin termsofacommandingstagepresence, butendearedhimselftotheaudiencewith hisboyishnessandinfectiousenergy. 
VampireWeekend’sColumbia-educated backgroundandupper-classaesthetics easilylendsitselftocriticismfromtor­tured,anti-establishmentmusicpurists, buttheauraofpretensionthatsurrounds thebandprovednegligible. 
Yes,they’rerichandwhite,butsoare theBeastieBoys.Yes,theysingabout grammaticalconjunctionsandescaping theirtroubledlivesinCapeCod,butit smacksofdisingenuousnessandatleastit translatesintoanundeniablyfunsound. Coldplay,Oasis,Kasabian…plentyof seeminglyworking-classbandsarepre­tentiousandacthumble,butVW’slyrical andthematicself-awareness,inaddition totheirlustrouspopveneer,madethe showanaltogethersatisfyingexperience. 


Toamoderatefan,theshowexceeded expectations,andallloyalWeekenders woulddowelltotryandcatchtheir upcomingshowcircuitintheUnited States. 

Colin Rich is a junior studying abroad in Rome. He can be reached at crich@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

BLAIR CHEMIDLIN I Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scene

Tuesday, February 23, 2010 page 11 


By SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Writer 
“Shutter Island” plays as though it’s so many things that it’s not: a horror film, a 1950s detective tale, mainstream enter­tainment for everyday filmgoers, a com­plicated psychological thriller that some might call a“mindbender”… the listgoes onandon. 
Martin Scorsese’s latest film is in fact a genre-bending, smartly-crafted thriller veiled as an exercise in complicated “makeyouthink”filmmakingthatisactu­ally pretty straightforward and easy to guess at, yet enjoyable nonetheless. That is to say, it succeeds as a journey and in itsdestination. 
Why? I’ll tell you why, and some will understandthis,whiletherestofyou(the ones who will either be perplexed by or think of the film’s ending as a work of uttergenius)willthinkI’mspeakingafor­eign language: “Shutter Island” is “Memento” stripped of its emotional closeness, mixed in with a more intricate “The Machinist” with the same exact themes.Addtothatalessmeticulous and more accessible brand of David Lynch­likefilmmaking. 
At the heart of this winding homage to 50snoir,setinamentalasylum,isamys­tery in his own right: Teddy Daniels, a U.S.Marshalwithapastthat’draisehairs on the backs of even the prison’s inmates (Leonardo DiCaprio, sporting the same heavy “Mahk”-instead-of-“Mark” Boston accentashedidin“TheDeparted”). 
At the film’s foggy open we’re intro­ducedto Teddy’s cold, suspicious stare as he looks outwardto the forebodingisland ahead, his new partner, Mark (Mark Ruffalo), at his side. The pair of them have been sent to the island to investigate the mysterious (you might say improba­ble) disappearance of the elusive Rachel Solando,aninmateconvictedofdrowning her three children. However, as they question and start to learn about the institution and its rather perplexing, seemingly villainous director (Ben Kingsley), it becomes increasingly appar­ent that there may be more to this than justthedisappearanceofamurderer. 
It’s that underlying uneasiness and ambiguity that shrouds every scene and establishes the intrigue in the film that thankfully survives the film’s rather long runtime. With each door unopened and eachperson questioned comes yet anoth­er round of questions that add another dimension to the maze that is Rachel’s disappearance and the institution itself. Add to that the flashbacks andhallucina­tions that quickly and increasingly become more and more apart ofTeddy’s psyche. 
Something wrong is afoot as the film’s score plays underling to deliberate cam­eraworkmeanttoparallelTeddy’smental freefall, and it’s not until the very end of the film that it starts to make sense (that is if you haven’t correctly guessed what thatsomethingis). 
Yes, something is very wrong, and as what’s only mildly clear begins to become more unclear, the focus bothliterally and figurativelyshiftsandlooksinwardrather than outward as the true mystery — the one mined throughout the film in flash­backs and hallucinogenic dreams — unveilsitself. 
“ShutterIsland”istheworkofamaster showcasinghisloveandknowledgeofthe medium, yet it falls short of its lofty aspi­rations. Its fatal flaw is that it tries so hard to be emotionally wrought. Despite its valiant attempts to make any sem­blance of an emotional connection with the audience, it fails miserably. There is nopunchinthestomach(orheart,tobet­ter represent the film’s intentions), only “show-stopping” sequences where DiCaprio mourns the loss of his wife and thinks back to liberating a Nazi death camp, where he shines like none other yet still somehow remains in his own mind and not in ours. It’s that extra dimension — that missing piece to the puzzle that is “Shutter Island” — that made “Memento” so exceptional and by that same measure makes this film “good.” 

Nevertheless, “Shutter Island”, despite its shortcomings, remains a successful marriage between one of the great film­makers in the world and one of his favorite actors, in what might be DiCaprio’s best performance to date. He’s one of the best American actors of this time, and while the film may be Scorsese’s, it’s DiCaprio who transcends all else andgives himself unto aperform­ance that should be remembered come Oscarseason. 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 



By GENNA McCABE 
Scene Writer 
I must admit that I have been a long­time Motion City Soundtrack fan. Ever since I heard Justin Pierre crooning about his heartache and quirky obses­sions, I was hooked. I have a feeling it’s his extreme honestythat makes him most endearing.Fromhisobsessivecompulsive behavior to his touching, though seeming­ly perpetual, heartache, Motion City Soundtrack can’tbe described as anything less than my guilty pleasure. I would rarely admit to enjoying a band so strikingly punk rock.Yetsometimeseveryoneneedsa ofangstandheartache.Itkeepsusallhuman. 
Motion City Soundtrack’s new album “The 
Dinosaur Life” is no exception to my general affection for the band. If asked, I would likely name “Even IfIt Kills Me” as myfavorite album oftheirs, but“TheDinosaurLife”doesnotdisappoint. 
Overall, the album delivers exactly what MCS fans will belookingfor.Thereisenoughvarietytokeepthelistener interested, with driving melodies and sing-along lyrics. Because they haven’t produced anything particularly unique, I wouldn’t say this album is an accomplishment fortheband.Still,asitistheirfourthalbum,MCScan’tbe expectedtohavecompletelyredefinedtheirsound. 
Their previous album, “Even If It Kills Me,” was the paramount of a break-up album. It was about love and sadness, the recovery from drug addiction, the end of relationships and the emptiness that comes along with it. “The Dinosaur Life” seems to be a new beginning for the band, a new stage in its life. With songs about triumph and starting over, it appears that their inspiration has come from a better, perhaps happier place this time around. 
The album certainly has its highlights and lowlights. The first track starts off with the upbeat, reflective song, “Worker Bee.” Pierre belts out, “It’s been a good year, a good new beginning,” signaling the beginning of a new era for the band. In the following track, “A Lifeless Ordinary,” Pierre sings “IthinkI can figure it out, butI’m gonna need a little help to get me throughit.” Both songs havecatchyhooksthatwillhavethelistenersingingalong bythesecondlisten. 
The single “Her Words DestroyedMyPlanet” is, if noth­ing else, the Motion City Soundtrack that their fans know and love. With their iconic synthesized, punk-pop sound andlyricsdetailingyetanotheraccountofPierre’soff-beat life,“HerWordsDestroyedMyPlanet”isafunlisten. 
My favorite track from the album is “Stand Too Close.” With a somewhat lighter, more raw feeling than most of the other songs on the album, it shows the pure, smooth nature ofPierre’s singing voice, aswell asprovides anoth­erglimpseintoPierre’sclearlyconflictedpsyche. 
A big part of what makes this band is the honesty and accessibilityoftheirmusic.Thoughitis easyto getcaught upinthefun,compellingpunk-popsound,itisalsoniceto listen to the lyrics and appreciate the courage it takes to share such raw stories ofheartbreak, drug addiction and personal awareness. Without the power of Pierre’s lyrics, Motion City Soundtrack would be just another punk-pop bandwithnothingnewtosay. 

“The Dinosaur Life” is another success for Motion City Soundtrack, capturing the essence and character of the band. It isn’t anything revolutionary, but it will certainly satisfy anyone hungering for another Motion City Soundtrackfix. 
Contact Genna McCabe at gmccabe@nd.edu 

BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 23, 2010 
CLUB SPORTS 

Gallagher, Gisriel lead Squash squad at nationals 
Bowling concludes season with eighth tournament; Field Hockey defeats Michigan State despite playoff loss 
Special to the Observer 
Squash 
Notre Dame finished 1-2 at the CSA National Squash Tournament at Yale from Feb. 19-21. The Irish com­peted in the Hawthorn “G” division alongside Bard, Bryant, Bucknell, College of Charleston, Ford­ham, Lafayette and Vermont. Coming in at No. 7 in the “G” division, the Irish held true to their ranking, losing 8-1 to Bard and to Bucknell 5-4. Notre Dame did came back to defeat Charleston 5-4. 
Individual performances were exciting and fast paced. Senior first seed Peter Gallagher saved the team from a shutout in his final CSA tournament when he defeated Bard’s top play­er 14-12, 11-2, 11-2. Gallagher also had a valiant victory against Bucknell, but it was not enough for the Irish to get the win. No. 2 seed fresh­man Ryan Gisriel played three hard matches, each time coming up short in four games. Third-place sopho­more Kevin Ortenzio played higher than usual and met the challenge, but lost three close matches. No. 4 Mark Hincapi, a senior, playing in his first and last CSA National tournament, over­came rookie nerves to finish with a three-game win over College of Charleston. 
No. 5 seed sophomore Dennis Grabowski struggled early against Bard and Bucknell but fought back to win in four games against Charleston. No. 6 seed freshman Jamie Urbana improved with each match but was not able to get the win. No. 7 sophomore Matthew Sushinsky and No. 9 fresh­man Thomas Dore both post­ed winning records on the weekend. No. 8 junior Kenneth Schlax won in five games against Bucknell, but was defeated in close matches against Bard and Charleston. Despite playing as the alternate, No. 10 Eric Huang, a freshman, finished strong in coming back from a 2-0 deficit to win 3-2 over Charleston. 
Bowling 
The Irish participated in the Backhaul Direct Hoosier tournament in Indianapolis this weekend to mark the club’s eighth and final sea­son tournament. Bowling against the largest and toughest field of any nation­al collegiate tournament, the men’s team finished 64th out of 69 while the women’s team placed 39th out of 41. Freshman Armani Sutton and senior Chris Kieser exhibited strong perform­ances on the men’s side. Sutton averaged 192.4 over nine games and individually placed 75th out of more than 450 bowlers. Kieser ended near Sutton, placing 93rd overall with a 190.7 
average. This was the final tournament for seniors Kieser, James Breen and CJ Kaltenbach. 
Saint Mary’s junior Allie Hensley and freshman Codi Coslet, averaging 161.8 and 
159.2 respectively, led the women. 
Equestrian 
The Notre Dame/Saint Mary’s equestrians compet­ed in two IHSA shows this weekend. Host St. Mary’s of the Woods tied Purdue for first Saturday, with the Irish close behind in third out of the 12-school field. SMWC took first Sunday, with Purdue, Illinois and the Irish bunched behind in the standings. Celina Tolson, Mana Espahbodi, Victoria Scheid and Mia Genereux all qualified for regionals with strong performances. 
Men’s Volleyball 
The Irish hosted St. Ambrose Friday evening. Despite key performances from Alex Lewis and Mark Iandolo, the Irish dropped the match 30-16, 31-29, 30­28. 
Field Hockey 
Notre Dame traveled to Cleveland to compete in a tournament at Cleveland State University last week­end. The indoor tournament included both women’s and men’s teams from across the Midwest, featuring universi­ty and club teams. Notre Dame played four games Saturday against the Cleveland Thorns, Pittsburgh, Michigan and Michigan State. The Irish lost their first three games, but defeated the Spartans in the fourth in a high-scoring match. Sunday, Notre Dame lost in close matches against the Cleveland Roses and the Steel Styx. Seeded 6th, Notre Dame took on the Cleveland Thorns in the tournament playoffs, losing 1-0 in a tight defensive match. 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Walker and Dyson aid Connecticut in NCAA quest 
Associated Press 
HARTFORD, Conn. — Kemba Walker scored 21 points and Jerome Dyson added 17 as Connecticut beat No. 8 West Virginia 73­62 on Monday night, the Huskies’ third win this sea­son over a top 10 team. 
Stanley Robinson had 15 points and 13 rebounds for UConn (17-11, 7-8 Big East), which has won three straight to keep its NCAA tournament hopes alive. 
The Huskies are 3-1 since coach Jim Calhoun returned from a medical leave of absence. Connecticut was 3­4 during the 23 days he was gone. 
Devin Ebanks had 17 points and nine rebounds to lead West Virginia (21-6, 10­5). The Mountaineers fin­ished the game without head coach Bob Huggins, who received two technical fouls in the final minute. 
Calhoun called the game a street fight, and the teams combined for 46 personal fouls. UConn hit 30 of 42 free throws and Walker was 14 of 17 from the line. 
West Virginia was 12 of 23 from the free throw line and hit just four of 18 shots from 3-point range. 
UConn led by as many as 15 points in the first half, and by nine at halftime after outrebounding the Moun­taineers 21-11. 
But the Mountaineers whittled away at the lead in the second half, and when Ebanks followed up a missed shot with 8:44 left they were down 53-52. But they were never able to take the lead. 
It was 66-62 with just over a minute left when Calhoun called a timeout. 
Stanley Robinson then fol­lowed up a missed layup by Dyson with a dunk, and Walker’s steal and dunk made it 70-62. 
An irate Huggins received two technical fouls after calling a timeout, and Walker hit three of four free throws to ice the game. 
West Virginia committed 26 fouls and UConn was called for 20. 
UConn lost 6-foot-11 Ater Majok to fouls with 5 min­utes left and 6-10 Gavin Edwards fouled out less than a minute later with UConn up 63-56. 
Wellington Smith fouled out for the Mountaineers with 2:55 left. 
West Virginia quickly scored the game’s first five points, prompting Calhoun to call a timeout less than a minute into the game. Calhoun then said something to official Michael Stephens that led to a technical foul. 
But Wellington Smith missed both free throws, and the Huskies responded by going on a 14-1 run. UConn scored 13 straight points midway through the half, and a short bank shot by Robinson gave the Huskies a 28-13 lead. 
West Virginia responded with a 10-1 run, but trailed 37-28 at halftime. 
UConn improved an NCAA tournament resume that also includes victories over then-no. 1 Texas last month and at No. 3 Villanova last week. 
Connecticut is 15-4 all-time against West Virginia, including 8-0 at home. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Faculty/grad students. 2 bdrm, 2.5 If you or someone you care about Don't walk behind me, I may not
FOR RENT bath, LR, DR, FR, Florida room, WANTED PERSONAL has been sexually assaulted, we lead. Don't walk in front of me, I utility room. 2-car attached garage. can help. For more information, visit may not follow. Just walk beside me Security system. Available now. Notre Dame's website: and be my friend. ---- Albert Camus 262-332-0015. Shown by appt. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do http.csap.nd.edu 1616 E. Colfax. not go it alone. Notre Dame has ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Off-Campus housing 2010-11 and P/T WORK - $10/HR FOR INDIE many resources in place to assist 2011/12. Irish Crossings, Dublin FILM CO. Looking for ND student to you. If you or someone you love Dear Michelle, Friendship is the hardest thing in Village, Wexford Place. Also a few ——————————————— be student ambassador for NYC needs confidential support or assis-Happy six-month, baby girl! the world to explain. It's not some-houses and Villas. Some furnished. ind. film co. Email contact@livefree-tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at xoxox thing you learn in school. But if you Call 574-298-4206. CES Property media.com for details. 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For ——————————————— haven't learned the meaning of Management gradrentals.viewwork.com more information, visit ND's web friendship, you really haven't 
site: Today is the youngest you will ever learned anything. ----Muhammad Ali http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu be. Live like it. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Tuesday, February 23, 2010 
page 13 
NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball AP Poll 
team previous 
MLB 


Former slugger Aaron supportive of McGwire 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 Kansas Kentucky Purdue Syracuse Duke Kansas State Villanova West Virginia Ohio State New Mexico Georgetown Pittsburgh BYU Michigan State Butler Vanderbilt Wisconsin Gonzaga Tennessee Temple Texas Texas A&M Richmond Baylor Northern Iowa 
1 2 4 5 6 7 3 8 9 12 10 19 16 11 18 17 14 13 20 21 15 24 25 22 NR 
NCAA Division I Women’s Basketball AP Poll 
team  previous  
1  Connecticut  1  
2  Stanford  2  
3  Nebraska  3  
4  Tennessee  5  
5  Xavier  6  
6  Duke  8  
7  NOTRE DAME  4  
8  West Virginia  9  
9  Florida State  10  
10  Ohio State  7  
11  Oklahoma  11  
12  Texas A&M  15  
13  Georgetown  14  
14  Texas  12  
15  Iowa State  13  
16  Kentucky  16  
17  Baylor  18  
18  St. John’s (N.Y.)  22  
19  Gonzaga  21  
20  LSU  23  
21  Virginia  NR  
22  Georgia Tech  14  
23  Oklahoma State  17  
24  Georgia  20  
25  Hartford  NR  

Associated Press 
KISSIMMEE, Fla. — Former career home run king Hank Aaron says MarkMcGwire should have a clear conscience after his recent admission he used performance-enhancing drugs as a player. 
Aaron said other players still harboring similar secrets also should come clean. 
“I think baseball is cleaning up its act a little bit, I really do,” Aaron said Monday during a visit to Atlanta Braves camp. “I’ve said this and I’ll say it again, over and over again, this is the most forgiving country in the world. If you come through and tell the truth, then you’re going to be forgiven. 
“The kid with the Yankees, (Andy) Pettitte, came out and it was a week of news and after that it was over. We all make mistakes. If they ever did enhancing drugs, whatever they did, they should come clean and be able to sleep at night.” 
Aaron said McGwire’s admission and apology this year was overdue but still welcome. 
“I would have loved to have seen him do it a long time ago, but since he did it, I think that he himself will tell you right now he’s able to sleep at night and he’s able to look at his teammates,” Aaron said. 

“He’s done everything that he can do.” 
McGwire, who hit a then-single-season record 70 homers in 1998, admitted this year he used steroids and human growth hor­mone as a player. He is beginning his first season as the Cardinals’ hitting coach. 
“It’s nice to have him back,” Aaron said. 
The 76-year-old Aaron’s enduring popularity was clear as he attracted a crowd of autograph-seek­ers. 
“It makes you feel good,” he said. “I’ve tried to carry myself that way. I don’t try to push myself on nobody. I just try to do what I’m sup­posedto do.” 
Aaron hit a record 755 home runs for the Braves and Brewers. His record was broken by Barry Bonds, who also eclipsed McGwire’s mark with 73 homers in 2001. Bonds has pleaded not guilty to charges of lying when he told a federal grand jury in 2003 that he never know­ingly used steroids. 
Aaron did not mention Bonds. 
Aaron was asked if he appreciates some fans still referring to him as the home run king. 
“Regardless of what hap­pened, I’m not going to hit another home run,” he said. “Not in this world.I may do it somewhere else.” 


aroundthedial 
NCAA Men’s Basketball 
Illinois at Michigan 7 p.m., ESPN 
Olympic Men’s Hockey 
Russia vs. Latvia 9 p.m., NBC 
IN BRIEF 
Patriots to place franchise 
tag on tackle Wilfork 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. — The New England Patriots put the franchise tag on Pro Bowl nose tackle Vince Wilfork on Monday, providing more time for negotiations toward a long­term contract. 
The six-year veteran said he hoped the team would use the tag for that purpose. 
The Patriots placed a non-exclu­sive tag on Wilfork, according to ESPN.com. That gives the Patriots the right to match any other team’s offer or let Wilfork go for two first-round draft picks. An exclusive tag would have tied Wilfork to the Patriots for the season. 
As a non-exclusive franchise play­er, if a long-term deal is not reached, his 2011 salary with the Patriots would be $7 million, the average 2009 salary of the top five paid players at his position. 
Outfielder Gomes signs 
deal to return to Reds 
GOODYEAR, Ariz. — Free agent outfielder Jonny Gomes signed a one-year deal with Cincinnati on Monday, providing the right-handed power hitter the Reds wanted in the outfield. 
General manager Walt Jocketty said the 29-year-old Gomes will compete for the job in left field. His contract includes a club option for 2011. 
The Reds put right-hander Edinson Volquez on the 60-day disabled list to create room on the roster. Volquez had reconstructive elbow surgery last August and isn’t expected back before midseason. 
Gomes appeared in 98 games for the Reds last season, batting .267 with 20 homers and 51 runs batted in. He started 33 games in left field, 33 in right and nine as a designated hitter during interleague play. 

Cubs’ Soriano recovering 
well from knee surgery 
MESA, Ariz. —Alfonso Soriano came to springtrainingMonday withhis typ­icalbigsmileandofferedupaquestion mark about his surgically repaired left knee. 
Soriano underwent arthroscopic sur­gery on the knee on Sept. 15. Four months later, he said he isn’t sure when he’llbeable to go full speed on it 
— not what fans were hoping to hear from a guy who played in only 117 games with the Cubs in 2009, batting .241 with 20 homers and 55 RBIs in the third season of an eight-year, $136 millioncontract. 
Soriano saidhe has been working out in his native Dominican Republic. He said he’s probably at about 80 percent or 85 percent but hasn’t completely tested the knee by running the bases or chasing fly balls. He said he doesn’t want to push things too quickly with a goalofbeingreadyforopeningday. 
page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, February 23. 2010 
NFL 

Chargers release Tomlinson after nine years 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO — The slashing, dazzling runs came less fre­quently. The yards didn’t pile up as easily as in previous sea­sons. 
LaDainian Tomlinson was slowing down because of injuries and age, becoming less and less the face of the fran­chise as his role was reduced in apass-happy offense. 
On Monday, he was released by the San Diego Chargers, a franchise he helped revive with a brilliant nine-year run in which he became one of the NFL’s greatest runningbacks. 
The move had been expected for some time. Tomlinson, one of the most beloved athletes in San Diego sports history, got the word in a meeting with team presidentDean Spanos. 
“I told him that in the 26 years that I’ve been in this business, it was probably the hardest thing I’ve had to do,” Spanos told The Associated Press. “I’m not close to a lot of the players, but there’s a hand­ful that I’ve been close with, and he’s probably the closest. It was really difficult to tell him. But out of respect, I wanted to tell him earlier rather than later.” 
Tomlinson was due a $2 mil­lion roster bonus in early March, which all but guaran­teed he would be cut loose. He still had two years left on his contract, which was reworked during a somewhat tumultuous periodlast offseason. 
L.T. wasn’t immediately avail­able for comment. He said after the Chargers’ playoff loss to the New York Jets that he felt he could still play for a few more seasons. 
“He was one of the greatest players and people that I’ve ever had a chance to be around and he will be missed,” outside linebacker Shawne Merriman said in an e-mailto the AP. 
General manager A.J. Smith calledit “a toughday, a sadday for everybody in the organiza­tion. But it’s always tough to part ways with great players who helped you win games. It’s not a pleasant day, but we’re workingthroughit.” 
Agent Tom Condon said he’ll spend time at the forthcoming NFL combine in Indianapolis determining interest from other teams. 
“I think they did us a favor in terms of releasing him before we go to the combine. That part of it was positive,” Condon told the AP. “L.T. during Super Bowl week had indicated it was time to move on, and they accommodated him. He’s had a Hall of Fame run there as a Charger.” 
Tomlinson, who turned 30 last summer, was injured early in the 2009 season and finished with 730 yards on 223 carries for an average of 3.3 yards per carry, all career lows. 
Condon doesn’t think Tomlinson is finished. 
“It’s one of those things with the very, very special players, like Emmitt Smith, Marcus Allen, guys like that,” Condon said. “You can’t predict what they’re going to do. They seem to defy the odds. He keeps him­self in tremendous condition. I think he feels like he can go forward for several more years.” 
Tomlinson ranks eighth on the all-time rushing list with 12,490 yards. His 138 career rushing touchdowns rank sec­ond, and his 153 total touch­downs rank third. 
He was the NFL’s MVP in 2006, when he set league sin-gle-season records with 31 touchdowns, including 28 rush­ing, and 186 points. Tomlinson won the NFL’s rushing title in 2006 and ‘07. 
Perhaps his most memorable moment as a Charger came on Dec. 10, 2006, when he swept into the end zone late in a game against the Denver Broncos for his third touch­down of the afternoon to break Shaun Alexander’s year-old record of 28touchdowns. 
His linemen hoisted him onto their shoulders and carriedhim toward the sideline, with Tomlinson holding the ball high in his right hand and waving his left index finger, while the fans chanted “L.T.! L.T.!” and “MVP!MVP!” 
“He’s just been a great player for us,” Smith said. “Also, the character, integrity, work ethic, along withhis talent, have been unbelievable. He’s a Hall of Famer right now. He will be a first-ballotHall ofFamer.” 
Coming off a 1-15 finish in 2000, and trying to dig out from the nightmarish Ryan Leaf years, the Chargers held the No. 1 overall pick in the 2001 draft. They sent that pick to the Atlanta Falcons on the day before the draft began for a package that included the fifth pick, which they used to select Tomlinson. The Falcons took Michael Vick with the top pick. 
“When he came here in 2001, we were a struggling fran­chise,” Spanos said. “It’s clear that we are where we are today because of him. He truly has been the heart and soul of our team all these years, and just done an outstanding job and helped turn this franchise around into a winning fran­chise. It couldn’t have been done without him.” 
Spanos said he and Tomlinson expressed disap­pointment that the player never got a chance to win a Super Bowltitle. 
“We came close but just never quite got there,” Spanos said. 
The Chargers made five play­off appearances during Tomlinson's time here. They advanced to the AFC champi­onshipgame following the 2007 season but lost to the New England Patriots. 
Tomlinson’s squeaky-clean image took a hit during that AFC championship game. Forced out early with a knee injury, Tomlinson watched glumly from the sideline, hud­dled in a parka and his face hidden behind the tinted visor on his helmet. 
The Chargers gave an overly optimistic prognosis about his injury, announcing that he “can return,” which caused fans and commentators to question his toughness. 
Tomlinson was always the most brutally honest employee in the Chargers’ organization. When he sustained a groin injury in the 2008 regular-sea­son finale, he was more forth­right with the media about its severity, causing Smith to bris­tle. 
That groin injury sidelined Tomlinson in a divisional-round loss to Pittsburgh, the first time he missed a game due to injury in his pro career. He had been slowed earlier that season by a toe injury. 
He sprained his right ankle in the 2009 season opener against Oakland and missed the next two games. 
Spanos said Tomlinson “was very, very gracious and very respectful” during their meet­ing. “He had his typical smile. He was just as good as could be, as respectful as could be. Just really, like he is, first class.” 


Tuesday, February 23, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
NBA 

Blatche leads Wizards to win; Bogut leads Bucks 

Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Andray Blatche scored 25 points and had 11 rebounds to lead the Washington Wizards to a 101-95 victory over the Chicago Bulls on Mondaynight. 
Blatche, averaging 25 points in the four games since the trades of Antawn Jamison and Caron Butler, helped Washington to its first three-game home winning streak since April 4-12, 2008. He also made all nine of his free throws. 
Washington is 3-1 since the trades, and the Wizards ended Chicago’s four-game winning streak. 
Early in the third quarter, the Wizards scored14 straightto take a 62-58 lead, holding Chicago scoreless for 6 minutes, 10 sec­onds. Blatche, Al Thornton and James Singleton each scored four pointsintherun. 
DerrickRosescored22pointsto leadtheBulls. 
Washington played nearly the entire game after one of their newest players, Josh Howard, playing in his fourth game, collid­ed with Flip Murray with 4:23 to play in the first quarter. He was helped off the court and suffereda strainedleftknee. 
Both teams made major moves last week. The Wizards made two trades andhave four new players, while the Bulls made two trades and also have four new players, though one, forward Joe Alexanderisyettoplay. 
Both coaches, Chicago’s Vinny Del Negro and Washington’s Flip Saunders,notedthatsomeoftheir newplayershaveyettoparticipate in a full practice, reducing the numberofplaystheycouldrun. 
Blatche had nine points in the third quarter when Washington outscored Chicago 31-16 as the Bulls missed 15 of their 21 shots. Washingtonled77-72afterthree. 
The Wizards increased their leadto 93-80 after Blatche hittwo freethrowswith5:25toplay. 

Rose, who led Chicago with 22 points, led a late rally that cut Washington’s lead to 96-95 with 
1:55 left. Rose scored nine points in the run, including a three-point play that featured a beautiful scoop shot. Flip Murray added 16 fortheBulls. 
Thornton and Randy Foye hit late jumpers to give the Wizards a 100-95 lead with 1:01 to play. Thornton had17points, Foye had 16 and nine assists, and Singleton hadaseason-high12rebounds. 
Bucks 83, Knicks 67 
Andrew Bogut had 24 points and 20 rebounds in his third career 20-20 game, and the Milwaukee Bucks beat the New York Knicks on Monday night for theirthirdstraightvictory. 
Limited to just 5 1/2 minutes at Madison Square Garden three weeks ago because of a migraine, Bogut played 36 this time and overwhelmed the Knicks’ smaller front line. He shot 12 of 15 from the field in his first 20-20 game since Dec. 13, 2008, against Indiana,accordingtoSTATS,LLC. 
John Salmons scored 15 points for the Bucks, who forced the Knicks into their worst offensive performance of the season and completed a three-game sweep of theseries. 
TracyMcGrady scored15points in his second game with the Knicks, but shot only 5 of 14. He wasn’t alone in struggling, as the teamhitjust33.8percentfromthe field in its season-high seventh straightloss. 
Newcomer Sergio Rodriguez replaced Chris Duhon in the line­up, but Duhon couldn’t have done any worse than the Spanish point guard, who had four points and one assist and shot 2 for 8 in 30 minutes. 
Bogut seemed on his way to a dominant effortin the Bucks’ 114-107winhereonFeb.5,makingall threeshotsforsixpointsbeforehe was forced to leave. He was the one causing the pain this time, helping the Bucks improve to 27­28 with their fourth straight road victory. 
Despite its woeful shooting, New York was within six with under 9 minutes. Jerry Stackhouse then made a 3-pointer before consecu­tive baskets by Luke Ridnour and Salmons made it 74-61 with 7:49 left. Knicks coach Mike D’Antoni promisedhisteamwouldspeedup the tempo afterlast week’s trades, yet finished nowhere near its pre­vious worst scoring night of 78 pointsagainstDallasonJan.24. 
TheBucks,whocameinagame out of the final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference, swept the series forthefirsttimesincegoing 4-0in1990-91. 
Milwaukee never trailed in the first half, but the Knicks put together their only prolonged stretchofgoodoffensewitha12-0 burstthatturneda10-pointdeficit into a 53-51 lead on Wilson Chandler’s layup with 5:20 remaininginthethirdquarter. 
TheBucks answeredimmediate­lywith13straightpoints,including consecutive layups by Bogut, to open a 64-53 advantage on two free throws by Brandon Jennings with41 seconds to go. Theyledby nineenteringthefourth. 
Bogut scored14points on 7-of-9 shooting and grabbed nine rebounds in the first quarter as Milwaukee opened a 27-20 lead. The Bucks pushed the lead into double digits early in the second while the Knicks continuedto mis­fire, andtheyled47-41 athalftime afterlimitingNewYorkto37.5per­centshooting. 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, February 23, 2010 
MLB 
Damon admits Detroit Tigers were frst choice 
Associated Press 
LAKELAND, Fla. — To Johnny Damon, the Detroit Tigers were the right team. 
“This is where I wanted to be,” he said Monday after com­pleting his $8 million, one-year contract. “The Tigers were my first choice. I love it here and think I am a good fit.” 
Let go by the World Series champion New York Yankees, Damon also drew interest from the Atlanta Braves and Chicago White Sox. When it came time to choose, he darted to Detroit. 
“The Tigers are a scary team and the fact that this team has gotten even younger makes it a lot more fun,” he said. 
The 36-year-old outfielder brings another left-handed bat to the Tigers’ lineup besides switch-hitter Carlos Guillen. 
Tigers general manager Dave Dombrowski has said Damon wasn’t in the team’s plans as late as January. But Damon came into the picture after the Tigers dealt leadoff hitter Curtis Granderson to the Yankees, then saw Placido Polanco leave as a free agent. 
“We needed to make some adjustments,” Dombrowski said. “We aren’t doing it only for this year, but we also need­ed to move forward. The moves we made earlier in the year allowed us to make some adjustments, not only for now but also for the future. We also brought in some young talent.” 
Damon hit .282 with 24 homers for the Yankees last season and is expected to lead off for the Tigers. 
“I’m happy for him that he’s found out where he’s going to go,” Yankees manager Joe Girardi said Sunday. “I think for players that’s an anxious time. Trying to figure out where you’re going to be. Usually it doesn’t go on this long. I wish Johnny luck. Johnny was good for us here. We all miss Johnny. This is the hard part of the game when those relationships change a little bit. I’ll root for Johnny except when he’s playing against us." 
The Tigers lost to Minnesota in a one-game tiebreaker for the AL Central title last year after collapsing down the stretch. Dombrowski said Damon’s attitude means as much as his talent. 
“He makes us better,” Dombrowski said. “He’s a proven winner.” 
Damon said he seriously con­sidered offers from three other teams, though he wouldn’t name them. He denied reports that his wife, Michelle, was against signing with the Tigers. 
“This is where we wanted to be,” Damon said. “It is where my family wanted to be. Contrary to what has been reported, I wanted a place where I could win right away. I have always been truthful and Detroit was always my first choice, and my wife and I are going to love it there.” 
Damon said he’s more com­fortable now than when he made the awkward transition from Boston to rival New York before the 2006 season. He grew up in Orlando, about a 30-minute drive from the Tigers’ spring training home in Lakeland. 
The Tigers will be Damon’s fifth team. He also played for the Kansas City Royals and Oakland Athletics before his stints in Boston and New York. 
“This is so much different than the last time,” Damon said. “This is the first time I feel at home.” 
He said he knew his days in New York were numbered after he was informed by Yankees general manager Brian Cashman that he was the second choice behind free agent Nick Johnson, who signed with New York in December. 
NBA 

Ilgauskas, Cavs may reunite 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — An official within the league told The AssociatedPress on Mondaythe NBA has not threatened to stop a potential reunion between the Cleveland Cavaliers and ZydrunasIlgauskas. 
The Cavaliers traded their longtime center to Washington lastweekinthethree-team deal thatbroughtAntawnJamisonto Cleveland. The Wizards may decide to buy out Ilgauskas, allowing him to become a free agent. 
The Los Angeles Times quot­ed an unnamed source Sunday saying the NBA had told other teams it wouldn’t let Ilgauskas go back to the Cavs. However, the official told the AP the league would only step in if there was proof of an agree­mentbefore the trade was com­pleted. 

The person was granted anonymity because he was not authorized to comment publicly abouttheIlgauskassituation. 
A message was left with Ilgauskas’ agent seeking com­ment. 
Ifabuyoutisreachedwiththe Wizards, Ilgauskas would be placed on waivers. No team is far enough under the salary cap to absorb his $11.5 million salary for this season, so he would become a free agent eli­gible to join any team for apro­rated share of the veteran's minimum. 
NBA rules allow a player beingtradedandthenwaivedto rejoin his old team after 30 days, as long as that wasn’t planned before the deal was completed. Last season, Antonio McDyess went back to Detroit after the Pistons dealt him to Denver along with Chauncey Billups for Allen Iverson, and players such as Brent Barry (San Antonio) and Gary Payton (Boston) have also gone back to clubs that dealt them in recent seasons. 
Thoughhelosthisstartingjob this season after the Cavs trad­ed for Shaquille O’Neal, a return to the Cavs could be attractive for Ilgauskas. He’s spent his whole career in Cleveland after he was drafted in 1996, and the Cavaliers are one of the favorites to win the championshipthisseason. 


Tuesday, February 23, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
by the other teams in the secret, he’s one of the best conference, goalies in the 
Big East 
Corrigan believes country,” continued from page 20 playing in the Big Corrigan said. 
East will aid is “The Big East gives “He benefit-Irish will face in their new team in the long us a great national ted from a conference is the number of run. great defen­
profile and name
top-ranked teams. Syracuse “We need the sive effort 
recognition in the
sits in first in the most challenge of Big from the recent USILA Coaches Poll as East play to pre-lacrosse world.” whole team. Georgetown moves to No. pare for the It’s a great 
13. N C A A honor to him, 
Kevin Corrigan 
“The Big East gives us a Tournament,” he but it’s some-
Irish coach
great national profile and said. name recognition in the Without playing lacrosse world,” Corrigan a conference said. “Not many people real-match, the Irish have 
ly know about a team from Denver, but they know teams like Syracuse and Georgetown. I think that having them come out here every other year will real­ly attract attention and help us build already made a name for them­selves on the Big 
”We need the 
East stage. challenge of Big Senior goalie 
East play to prepare Scott Rodgers 
was named the 
for the NCAA 
first-ever Big 
Tournament.” East defensive player of the week and junior 
Kevin Corrigan 
midfielder Zach 
Irish coach 
Brenneman was named to the weekly honor 
rivals in all the sports we roll as a result of their per-play in.” formances at Duke. 
Despite the challenges set “Scottie Rodgers isn’t any 
Florida 
continued from page 20 
strides. We got off to a horri­ble start at Michigan State,” Holt told und.com. “But they went out and got better every time they competed.” 
The Irish are not starting off their spring season easy. The Central District Invitational involves 15 teams, seven of which are ranked in the Golfstat Top 25. 
Florida leads the field at 5­under par, followed by TCU at 15 over. Notre Dame is one of a group of 10 teams grouped within 16 shots of one anoth­er between 27-and 43-over par. 
“I think we are really look­ing to just get comfortable again,” Holt said. 
The first tournament of the spring season has character­istically been a tough one for the Irish, as the team has had a tough time starting with a solid round and typically per­forms better as the year pro­gresses. But this year may be different for Notre Dame. 
“I think the girls realize what’s ahead of them,” Holt said. “We don’t have time with our schedule to come lollygagging out. They need to thing not only 
he should 
take pride in, but also the whole team.” 
Although Corrigan has pre­viously said he and his team don’t set many long-term season goals, he has already stated some for Notre Dame in this new conference. 
“We want to win it,” Corrigan said. “We don’t talk much about season goals, we talk about today, but there’s only one goal when you’re in a conference like this: to win the Big East. It’s going to be quite a challenge and an accomplishment.” 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
come out ready to play.” 
The Irish came out with the same lineup with which they ended the fall season, includ­ing Huffer, senior co-captains Annie Brophy and Kristin Wetzel and juniors Katie Conway and So-Hyun Park. 
“We have a lot of experi­ence which I think will really benefit us in this spring sea­son,” Holt said. 
The Irish will conclude their play in the Central District Invitational today as they hope to improve upon Monday’s performance. 
Contact John Helms at jhelms2@nd.edu 

NBA 

Hawks beat Jazz to end 17-year drought 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY — Joe Johnson scored 28 points and Josh Smith added 18 as the Atlanta Hawks won in Utah for the first time in 17 years, beating the short­handed Jazz 105-100 on Monday night. 
Johnson scored 11 points in the fourth quarter, includ­ing a 3-pointer with 2:28 left that gave the Hawks a lead they wouldn’t relinquish. 
Jamal Crawford, who had 17 points, followed Johnson’s long shot with a steal and two free throws and the Jazz lost for just the third time in 20 games. 
Playing without Deron Williams and Andrei Kirilenko, the Jazz stayed close until the final minute, but allowed the Hawks to shoot 54 percent. 
The Hawks hadn’t won in Utah since Feb. 13, 1993, when Dominique Wilkins scored 43 points to lead Atlanta to a 121-112 victory. 
Paul Millsap scored 14 points and Ronnie Price and Kyle Korver each had 13 points for the Jazz, who missed a chance to catch Denver for a share of the Northwest Division lead and the second position in the Western Conference stand­ings. 
A night after a 22-point, 23-rebound effort, Carlos Boozer had 12 points, 10 rebounds and a season-high eight assists but missed a couple of late shots and dropped a rebound out of bounds when the Jazz had a chance to tie it in the final minute. 
Williams briefly left Sunday’s game at Portland with a leg injury, but returned to help the Jazz complete a 93-89 overtime victory after trailing by 25 points. Williams had 18 points and 12 assists, while playing tenacious defense against Brandon Roy in the final minutes. 
Kirilenko left the game against the Trail Blazers in the first quarter with back pain, an ongoing issue for the lanky forward. His recent play has been critical in Utah’s surge, but he has now sat out seven games this sea­son with the ailment. 
The Hawks squandered a 17-point fourth-quarter advantage in a 108-104 loss at Golden State on Sunday and had dropped three of four games. But they made 10 of 15 shots in the fourth quarter and outscored the Jazz 31-25 to claim the rare win at Utah. 
Johnson made a contested jumper to make it 101-97 and then C.J. Miles missed two free throws on the other end with 32.2 seconds remaining. The rebound resulted in a jump ball that Smith won. Johnson and Crawford made free throws in the final seconds to clinch the victory. 
Beyond snapping a 15­game road losing streak in Utah, the win clinched Atlanta.s first season series sweep of the Jazz since the 1992-93 season. 
Without two of their starters, the Jazz came out flat and fell behind by as many as 11 in the first quar­ter. But seldom-used center Kyrylo Fesenko led the Jazz on a 17-2 run to start the second period. Fesenko’s three-point play capped the surge and gave Utah a 41-30 lead. 
Mavericks 91, Pacers 82 
Brendan Haywood tied a career high with 20 rebounds and the Dallas Mavericks improved to 4-0 with him as their starting center in a victory against the Indiana Pacers on Monday night. 
Haywood, who came over from Washington in a Feb. 13 trade, scored 13 points and added three blocks to anchor a defense that was struggling. The Mavericks have held all five opponents since the trade to less than 100 points after the previous eight broke that mark. 
Haywood is starting in place of Erick Dampier, who dislocated a finger in the first game with his new backup. 
Dirk Nowitzki led Dallas with 23 points. 
Playing his second straight game in his native Texas, 
T.J. Ford led the Pacers with 14 points. 
Jason Kidd had two of his seven assists and the punctu­ating 3-pointer on an 11-3 run that put the Mavericks ahead 64-48 in the third quarter. Their lead was never less than nine after that. 
Haywood also had a hand in the defining run, getting four points, a rebound and a block. 
The rest of the Mavericks were harassing the Pacers, too. Indiana shot 39 percent and went nearly five minutes without a field goal while the Mavericks pulled away in the second half. 
The Mavericks improved to 4-1 since the All-Star break and the trade, taking advan­tage of their second straight game against a team playing without its leading scorer. Indiana’s Danny Granger missed the game for unspeci­fied personal reasons after Miami’s Dwyane Wade sat out Saturday night with a calf strain. 
Some of the Pacers’ shoot­ing woes were self-inflicted. They missed plenty of open 3-pointers, finishing 3 of 23 from beyond the arc. 
Coming off a 23-point night during a win in his home­town of Houston, Ford played despite a sore groin and kept the Pacers close in the first half. He led all first-half scorers with 10 points. He used his quickness to draw fouls, converting a three-point play and going 6 of 7 from the line. 
The three Dallas newcom­ers played strong first-half roles. Haywood had 10 rebounds before halftime, the last an emphatic putback dunk that gave him seven points. Caron Butler led the Mavericks in the first half with eight points despite 3 of 9 shooting, and DeShawn Stevenson hit a pair of 3­pointers to finish with seven. 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, February 23, 2010 
The Golden Eagles (14-12, 5-8) 
of the toughest games because midfield rotation,” Coyne said. 
are led by junior Angel Robinson, 
everyone expects us to win and “There will be lots of surpris-
Seniors
Hofstra 
an aggressive point guard averag-
Hofstra always plays us close.” es, and hopefully they’re all 

continued from page 20 ing 13.3 points and 4.5 assists per 
continued from page 20 Senior Pride midfielder pleasant ones.” 
game. Complemented by sopho-
Corrine Gandolfini is a mem-This game will be the first in 
more forward Jessica Pachko in 
tect the ball in transition,” she ber of the U.S. National Notre Dame’s campaign to 
the post, McGraw said she believes 
said. Developmental Team that reach its goals, including 
much-needed spark as they look 
Marquette has developed an effec-
Despite working on this in faced the Irish, and she will be defending last season’s Big 
for a return to the win column. 
tive inside-outside offense that 
practice, Hofstra will still pro-Notre Dame’s biggest concern. East title, and winning it out­
“Getting Lindsay Schrader back 
may pose a potential mismatch. 
vide a test of the Notre Dame’s The game will be played in right, which the squad has 
is going to be a big part of that,” 
Senior guard Melissa Lechlitner 
progress as it opens its season. weather conditions that never done. Notre Dame is also 
McGraw said. “It’s Senior Night, 
said she is optimistic, and believes 
“We need to see what we can emphasize one-on-one attack-looking to win the conference 
we’re playing at home, we have a 
Schrader’s return and a renewed 
do,” Coyne said. “Because ing and ball possession, areas tournament and advancing 
lot of things going our way right 
focus at practice will deliver an 
we’ve only played ourselves.” where Hofstra has been tradi-deep into the NCAA 
now. I think we just need to gain 
Irish victory. 
The first game will be no tionally strong. Tournament. Although much is 
our confidence back, and just go 
“Anytime you get a player back 
easy win, either. Notre Dame “Defensively, we’ve been up in the air as to how ready 
out and concentrate on the funda­
that’s been injured or has been out 
has faced the Pride twice working on our one-on-one the team is to accomplish 
mentals.” 
for a little bit, it’s always an extra 
before, holding them off 14-13 defense,” Coyne said. “Draw those goals, one thing is sure 
Schrader brings a special set of 
boost, always going to help,” 
in 2008 and prevailing 17-15 control will also be huge.” after preseason workouts. 
skills with her every time she steps 
Lechlitner said. “We just need to 
last season. Hofstra returned a Coyne said she believes that “We’ll be as prepared as we 
on the court, namely the ability to 
get back to rebounding and play-
strong contingent from last no one player on the team will can be,” Coyne said. 
score, rebound and play lockdown 
ing defense and getting big stops, 
year’s 10-6 campaign and have to play well, but rather Notre Dame will face Hofstra 
defense when the game is on the 
just playing Notre Dame basket-
opened the season with an the entire squad as a whole, at 3:30 p.m. to open its 14th 
line. Nevertheless, Notre Dame 
ball.” 
impressive victory. especially since this is the first season at the James M. Shuart 
features a talented cast that many 
Playing in the Purcell Pavilion 
“They always play us really game of the season in which Stadium in Hempstead, N.Y. 
believed would be able to carry 
will be a welcome advantage, but 
tough. They’re a very quick, the Irish will cement their line-
the slack in Schrader’s absence. 
going out with a win on Senior 
athletic, feisty and physical up changes from last year. Contact Allan Joseph at 
“I think it was definitely a shot, 
Night should also be a motivating 
team,” Coyne said. “This is one “We’re trying a different ajoseph2@nd.edu 
shook our confidence a little bit 
factor for the veteran-heavy 
knowing we’ve lost two games 
squad. 
without her,” McGraw said. “I 
“We have some of the best 
led the Britons with 13.9 create second shots for us 
think everybody knows we didn’t 
attendance in the nation, and our 
points per game, playing a with offensive boards,” 
play well, individually or as a
Rematch 
fans are the absolute best in the 
vital role in Albion’s guard Henley said. 
team. It’s disappointing for all of 
country,” Lechlitner said. 
continued from page 20 play as she leads the team in Belles senior Anna 
them to be able to look at them­
“Anytime that we start getting on 
assists and steals by a large Kammrath has become a vital 
selves and know they kind of let 
a little run, we feed off their 
under control and keep Albion margin for the season. asset in grabbing rebounds as 
the team down.” 
enthusiasm. It’s not really our last 
off the foul line.” The Belles will need to come she recently set the Saint 
Schrader’s return comes at a 
home game, but it’s still really sad 
Not only will Saint Mary’s out ready to play against Mary’s career rebounding 
pivotal point in the season. The 
the season is coming to an end. 
need to provide ample offen-Albion in order to advance in record, surpassing the previ-
Irish have slipped to fourth in the 
Four years are coming to an end. 
sive firepower, but they also the playoffs and a team can ous mark of 830. Sophomore 
conference standings and face a 
It’s definitely going to be an emo-
will need to step up on the no longer expect to win with-Kelley Murphy has been 
desperate Marquette team that 
tional night.” 
defensive side of the ball as out full energy on both adding an average 7.2 
must win to keep its NCAA 
The Irish tip-off against the 
Albion has a few players who offense and defense. The rebounds per game as well for 
Tournament dreams alive. 
Golden Eagles is at 7 p.m. in the 
could pose as a real threat to Britons are looking for an the Belles. 
“It’s always a good game with 
Purcell Pavilion. Notre Dame’s 
the Belles. opportunity to upset Saint Saint Mary’s will take on 
them,” McGraw said. “They’ve 
seven seniors (five players, two 
“Albion is a good team,” Mary’s on the Belles’ home Albion at 7:30 p.m. in the first 
beaten us a couple of times now 
managers) will be honored prior 
Henley said. “They have some court after losing at home round of MIAA playoff action 
up there. Every game’s tough, 
to the game. 
very good shooters who are Saturday. in the Angela Athletic Center. 
every game. Their backs are 
able to take over a game at “We are going to need to 
against the wall. They want to 
any point.” play more than just one half Contact Tim Singler at 

really try to win this game and we Contact Chris Masoud at 
Junior guard Melissa Shaw of solid defense as well as tsingler@nd.edu 

feel kind of the same way.” cmasoud@nd.edu 

Tuesday, February 23, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 

HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Tuesday, February 23, 2010 page 20 
ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Ready to attack 
Irish travel to Hofstra to open spring season 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
The Irish traveled to Hempstead, N.Y. for today’s 
3:30 p.m. clash at Hofstra to open their spring season. It will be the Pride’s second match after opening the season with a 21-3 dismantling of Saint Mary’s (Calif.). 
Notre Dame has been prac­ticing hard throughout the off­season and in the preseason. The Irish traveled to Lake Buena Vista, Fla., to scrimmage the U.S. National Elite team and U.S. National Developmental team in January at the Disney World of Sports in the Champion Challenge. The trip to Florida revealed important areas to focus on in practice, Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. 
“Playing the U.S. team exposed that we need to pro-IAN GAVLICK/The Observer 
Junior midfielder and co-captain Shaylyn Blaney takes on an Ohio State defender in a Feb. 22, 2009 see HOFSTRA/page 18 match. She will look to help the Irish open up the spring season at Hofstra today in Hempsted, N.Y. 

SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles earn No. 3 seed in playoffs 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s earned the No. 3 seed in the MIAA playoffs and will play host to Albion in the first round. 
The Belles are looking to build upon their two-game win streak to close out the regular season, winning their final two games by a combined total of 35 points. 
The two teams last met Saturday when the Belles were able to keep their composure and handle the pressure from the Britons. But Saint Mary’s committed a number of fouls that led to easy points for Albion, but not enough as the Belles won 62-47. 
“Tuesday’s rematch is going to be a battle,” Belles coach Jenn Henley said. “We are going to need to keep our fouls 
see REMATCH/page 18 


MEN’S LACROSSE 

No. 3 Notre Dame ready for new Big East opponents 
newly -formed and highly 2009, the Irish (1-0) will join Great Western Lacrosse which we recruit. It’ll be 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 

competitive Big East men’s Georgetown, Providence, League had been in the Final great for recruiting and play-
Sports Writer 

lacrosse league. Rutgers, St. John’s, Syracuse Four except us.” ing in front of the kids we’re 
“One of the good things is and Villanova as the 11th As part of the new confer-trying to attract.” 
With the beginning of the the quality of the teams,” men’s team sponsored by the ence, the teams will play a The Irish grabbed the pre­2010 season comes a number Irish coach Kevin Corrigan Big East conference. Notre six-game single round-robin season No. 2 spot in the Big of firsts for the No. 3 Irish. said. “At the top of this Dame earned 12 GWLL regu-regular season schedule. East by the conference’s head Not only did they take down league is excellence with lar-season titles and won two Notre Dame’s first conference coaches. Syracuse was chosen now-No. 8 Duke in the season Syracuse and Georgetown, back-to-back league tourna-match will take place March in front of the Irish with six-opener, the first time the Irish and I think that Villanova and ments in 2008 and 2009. 27 when it plays host to first place votes to Notre have defeated a team that Rutgers are moving up as “To be involved in such a Rutgers. Dame’s one; Georgetown was was ranked in the top two of well.” big conference is great for “It’s a very competitive ranked third. the national polls in program A member of the recently our team,” Corrigan said. group of schools,” Corrigan One of the challenges the history, but Notre Dame is dissolved Great Western “Syracuse has five national said. “The league’s teams are also one of seven teams in the Lacrosse League from 1994 to championships. No one in the in all areas of the country in see BIG EAST/page 17 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Schrader returns to the court 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
With a two-game losing streak hovering over its head, No. 7 Notre Dame finds itself in unfamil­iar territory heading into the last week of the regular season. Fighting for a top seed in the Big East Championship, the Irish (23­3, 10-3 Big East) will have their first chance to exorcise their demons as they host Marquette tonight for Senior Night. 
Notre Dame’s fall in the polls and conference standings comes on the heels of senior Lindsay Schrader’s ankle injury that has sidelined the guard for two games. Irish coach Muffet McGraw said she believes Schrader’s return Tuesday will give the Irish a 
see SENIORS/page 18 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Huffer leads the way for Irish in Florida 
By JOHN HELMS 
Sports Writer 

After a few months spent practicing in the Rolfs Golf Facility, the Irish are happy to be competing in the Central District Invitational in Parrish, Fla., in a two-day event at the River Wilderness Country Club. Notre Dame came out of Monday’s compe­tition in 11th after two rounds of play. 
In Monday morning’s first round, the Irish opened with a 310 and followed with a 308 in the afternoon. Sophomore Becca Huffer leads the Irish with a 149 two-round total, 5-over par, to place her in 14th overall. 
Going into the competition, the Irish were excited about the chance to play outside again. 
“It’s been a while since we’ve actually gotten to play golf,” Irish coach Susan Holt told und.com. “I think the biggest thing is getting back out there and starting to hit some shots and feel comfort­able again.” 
Notre Dame has not com­peted in an event since the Alamo Invitational in October 2009, the finale of a fall sea­son that was characterized by improvement. 
“We made a lot of great 
see FLORIDA/page 17 






