the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Top football recruit dies in fall 
By MATT GAMBER 
News Writer 
Irish football coach Brian Kelly said his program was “in a state of disbelief and incredible sadness” following the tragic death of top recruit Matt James, who fell from a fifth-floor hotel bal­cony and died while on Spring Break in Panama City Beach, Fla., on Friday. 
Police said James, 17, was “drunk” at the time of the fall, which occurred around 
6:30 p.m. Friday at the Days Inn Motel in Panama City Beach. An autopsy showed James died of brain injuries. He was vacationing with six parents and 40 fellow stu­dents from St. Xavier High School in Cincinnati, Ohio, police said. 
“Our thoughts and prayers go out to the family and friends of Matt James in this most trying of times,” Kelly said in a statement Saturday. “On a personal level, I got to know Matt quite well over the past few years, and he was a wonderful young man from a great family. Matt was an extremely talented person who was very bright and possessed a great dry sense of humor. He could not wait to join the Notre Dame family.” 
Visitation will be held at St. Xavier High School on Friday from 4 to 8 p.m., and a funeral mass will be cele­brated at 10 a.m. Saturday at St. Xavier Church in downtown Cincinnati, according to a Tuesday press release from the high school. 


“We are united in our grief over Matt,” St. Xavier presi­dent Fr. Tim Howe said in the release. “Our community is strong, and I know that the strength we receive from our faith in Jesus’ resurrec­tion will help us get through 

‘God Debate’ sparks discussion on campus 
By JOSEPH McMAHON 
Associate News Editor 
Two titans of the academic world will clash tonight in the Leighton Concert Hall when famed anti-theist and author of books such as “God is Not Great” Christopher Hitchens faces Catholic apologist Dinesh D’Souza in “The God Debate: Is Religion the Problem?” 
Hitchens and D’Souza repre­sent two fundamentally irrecon­cilable positions, and both have come under criticism for their tendency to use demeaning lan­guage and bullying in debates. 
Theology Professor Fr. Richard McBrien said he will not be attending because both Hitchens and D’Souza represent the extremist sects of their respec­tive viewpoints. 
“I’m not excited about the debate because an intelligent middle position will not be rep­resented. The two debaters reflect, in my opinion, extreme anti-religious views, on the one hand, and an extreme right-wing view of Catholicism, on the other hand,” McBrien said. “It’s an important debate, but the religious side would require someone with a more compre­hensive theological perspective.” 
Junior Sy Doan, who wrote an Observer Letter to the Editor criticizing Hitchens’ aggressive debate tactics, said despite his reputation as an “intellectual bully,” Hitchens is still a “viable member of the intellectual com­munity who Notre Dame should welcome.” 
“I think it’s wrong that we expect intellectuals to be genial and mild-mannered,” Doan said. “Intelligence and comity do not necessarily go hand-in-hand.” 
After President Barack Obama was invited to speak at last 
see DEBATE/page 4 

this difficult time. Our love and prayers are for Matt and his family as we accompany them in the coming days of shared mourning.” 
James, a 6-foot -6, 290 ­pound offensive tackle, was set to enroll in the fall as Kelly’s first major recruit at Notre Dame. The All ­American chose the Irish on National Signing Day over Ohio State and Cincinnati. 
“We would like to thank everyone for their prayers and support during this trag­ic time, particularly the fam­ily at St. X,” James’ parents, Jerry and Peggy, said in a statement Saturday. “Matt was a very special young man, and it is gratifying to us that you all could see that as well. We are touched by this outpouring of love.” 
James’ high school class­mate and quarterback, Luke Massa, is an Irish commit 
see RECRUIT/page 6 


Class of ‘14 promises diversity 
By LIZ O’DONNELL 
News Writer 
The admitted Class of 2014 is the most talented and ethnical­ly diverse Notre Dame has ever seen, said Assistant Provost of Admissions Daniel Saracino. 
“This was the largest applica­tion class in history and at the same time it was the most aca­demically talented and diverse class [we’ve seen],” he said. 
Saracino said the University received 14,515 applications, with an average in the top 9.9 percent rank-in-class, 1319 SAT and 30.1 ACT. 
“We admitted about 4,000 students and we project that we will enroll 2,035 students for the fall,” he said. 
The average admitted student in the class boasted a top-4 percent class rank, a 1434 SAT score and 32.6 ACT score. 
In addition to these admitted students, Saracino said the admissions office placed an 2,000 students on a waitlist. 
“The academic profile of the students on the waitlist is simi­lar to the academic profile of the group we admitted four 
see 2014/page 6 


Concert to feature The Roots 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
The Student Union Board (SUB) recently announced that the much anticipated spring concern will feature The Roots, the current house band for “Late Night with Jimmy Fallon,” on Saturday night in the Stepan Center. 
“The biggest consideration for us is that we book a per­former that Notre Dame stu­dents actually want to see,” said concert programmer Marie Wicht, a junior. “We really believe that The Roots will be one of the best con­certs Notre Dame has ever had.” 
Named as one of Rolling Stone Magazine’s top 20 live acts in the world, The Roots recently performed at the 2010 Olympics in Vancouver and have released a total of 13 albums since 1993. The Philadelphia hip-hop group has also won numerous awards, including several 


Observer File Photo 

Good Charlotte plays at last year’s spring concert. SUB invit­ed The Roots to campus to play this Saturday. 
Grammys, Wicht said. the contract in about a 
She said deciding on The week, she said. Roots “was what took the “In comparison with the bulk of our time.” other contenders, they stood 
The concert planning out as having a great, process began last spring, award-winning history and but once an offer letter was sent out, The Roots signed see SUB/page 6 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC Tostal page 3  Irish baseball tops Oakland to stop skid page 20  Easter in Rome page 10  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Wednesday, April 7, 2010 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Opening Day 
As sports fans, almost everyone can name one event that epitomizes every­thing they love about that particular sport. If you’re an NFL fan, there is noth­ing greater than the Super Bowl. March Madness thrills just about everyone for Luke Mansour the numerous gam­bling opportunities it Sports Wire provides as well as 
Editor 
America’s seminal love for the under­dog. If you’re a soccer fan, nothing will ever compare to the World Cup every four years. 
But there is one event each year that, while not providing the excitement and drama that these other events produce, represents everything that is great about being a sports fan — Opening Day of the baseball season. 
Many people, no doubt, would scoff at such a premise. Opening Day is only the first of 162 games to be played for all 30 Major League Baseball clubs. It is seem­ingly insignificant in the grand scheme of the baseball season, and very rarely are there lasting memories made during Opening Day games. But Opening Day is about so much more than that. 
For a true baseball fan, Opening Day is the beginning of the best six sports months of the year, because it means get­ting to follow your team every day. The baseball fan lives through every pitch and every at-bat, throughout the highs and lows of their team’s season. 
Opening day is the signal that a long winter has ended, including a dreary February and half of March where there are zero meaningful sporting events after the Super Bowl. It means that spring has arrived and summer is not far behind… 
Most of all though, Opening Day repre­sents hope, and that is really what sports are all about. (Note: if you are a fan of the Pirates, this may not apply to you. I’m sorry, there is not much hope there.) 
Opening Day means the thought of never being bored on a lazy summer day. It means the excitement of a possible pennant race and the chance to dream of October glory on a rainy spring after­noon. It means following your team through good times and bad, day-in and day-out. 
For me, Opening Day refers to my hope for the Chicago Cubs. The hope that after 102 years, they will finally be able to win the World Series for me, and more importantly those loyal fans who have patiently waited far longer than I could ever imagine. It means never having to hear another anguished “Wait til’ Next Year.” It means the opportunity to go cheer on the Cubs this summer at Wrigley, what every Cubs fan believes is greatest place on earth. For fans of every other team, there are aspirations of their own. 
So at least for one day, I can forget about the fact that the Cubs have no bullpen, that we are stuck with Alfonso Soriano for another five years, and that Carlos Zambrano may never live up to his potential. I, like countless numbers of fans, dare to think that the stars could align just this year. The baseball season is underway, and no matter what happens for your team in the coming months, for now there should be only optimism. Baseball fans: you are now invited to sit back, relax, and dare to dream. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Luke Mansour at lmansour@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT IS YOUR FAVORITE PERIODIC ELEMENT? 







Alice Harada  Jeff Steimle  Joe Cannova  Christine Kim  Brian Argus  
sophomore Badin  sophomore Keenan  sophomore Dillon  junior Ryan  sophomore Fisher  
“Unobtainium.”  “Au, because it’s good to be the king.”  “Xenon, because it sounds cool when [Professor] Lappin says it.”  “What elements are there? Wait no, potassium!”  “Silver, because I never win.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer Students participate in the annual Bookstore Basketball tournament on the Hammes Bookstore basketball courts in 80-degree weather Tuesday evening. The tournament began after Spring Break and will conclude on Blue-Gold weekend, April 25. 
OFFBEAT 

Women arrested after trying to bring a corpse onto plane 
LONDON — Police have arrested two women at an British airport after they reportedly tried to smuggle a corpse onto a flight. 
Police said Tuesday the women were detained at Liverpool's John Lennon airport "on suspicion of fail­ing to give notification of death" of a 91-year-old man. 
The BBC and other British media reported that the women placed the man, a relative of theirs, into a wheelchair and covered his face with sunglasses in a bid to get him aboard a flight to Berlin. 
The women, aged 41 and 66, were detained Saturday and have been released on bail. They have not been charged and police say inquiries are continuing. 
Eight-year-old boy takes family van, crashes vehicle 
BETHEL, Ohio — An Ohio man says his 8-year-old son was just trying to do him a favor and get gasoline when the boy drove the family's minivan and crashed it. James Crouch says he didn't even realize his son, Jordan, was out of the house Friday morning until a Clermont County sheriff's deputy came to the family's home in Bethel and woke him up to let him know what hap­pened. 
The boy says he used keys that he found in his mother's purse and backed the car out of the driveway. He started going down the road at about 5 mph but could bare­ly reach the pedals and lost control, crashing into a tele­phone pole. He wasn't hurt. 
Crouch says Jordan was still in his pajamas and just wanted to do something nice. He says he's going to watch his son more closely now. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday 

IN BRIEF 
“Is Religion the Problem?,” a public debate between Christopher Hitchens and Dinesh D’Souza will take place tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The event is ticketed. 
A lecture, “Rethinking Rwanda, 1994,” will take place Thursday from 12:30 
p.m. to 1:45 p.m. at C103 Hesburgh Center. The event is free and open to the public. 
The Haiti Bonfire Party will take place Friday from 8 p.m. to midnight. Tickets will be on sale at the dining halls through April 8th for $10, and $15 at the door. All proceeds benefit Haiti relief efforts. 
“Bursting the Bubble,” Notre Dame’s CommUniversity Day, will be Saturday from noon to 6 p.m. Created to fos­ter relationships between the community and the Univeristy, CommUniversity Day will fea­ture a Kid’s Festival, campus tours and a community picnic. The event is free and open to the public. 
A softball double-header, Notre Dame versus South Florida, will take place Saturday at noon at the Melissa Cook Stadium. 
The annual Holy Half Marathon will take place Sunday from 10 a.m. to noon. All of the proceeds from the event will go toward Katrina Relief through the Broadmoor Improvement Association. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

Saturday Sunday 

Atlanta 82 / 59 Boston 83 / 57 Chicago 56 / 39 Denver 45 / 32 Houston 78 / 53 Los Angeles 79 / 53 Minneapolis 57 / 33 New York 85 / 61 Philadelphia 88 / 61 Phoenix 80 / 56 Seattle 57 / 46 St. Louis 71 / 45 Tampa 83 / 65 Washington 88 / 65 
Wednesday, April 7, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
College festival aimed toward stress relief 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
In honor of the original AnTostal, a College celebration of springtime in the 1960s, the Saint Mary’s Student Activities Board (SAB) will host SMC Tostal, an event featuring a free concert and a variety of other activities. 
“We have it to give the stu­dents the chance to relax a bit before finals,” SAB president Michele Peterson, a senior, said. Peterson said the Tostal activi­ties begin at noon on Thursday. 
Activities include inflatables on the Library Green from noon to 4 p.m, including a bungee run, obstacle course, slide and human spheres, as well as a rock wall and mechanical bull. 
“These are all free, so stu­dents can stop by between class­es and have a bit of fun,” Peterson said. “There will also be a food vendor with ‘fudge puppies,’ which are basically waffles on a stick covered with chocolate and toppings, and freshly squeezed orange, lemon and lime juice.” 


In the Spes Unica Hall Atrium and Student Center Atrium, henna tattoo artists will offer free tattoos. A photo booth will also be available to students in the dining hall during dinner. 
The day will end with a con­cert featuring Josh Kelley and opening act Jon McLaughlin. Tickets are free and available to Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross students in the Student Center Atrium today from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. and 4 
p.m. to 7 p.m. 
“I love that SAB can provide the students with a day of fun,” Peterson said. “We all work so hard, and by the end of the spring semester, we are often stressed with oncoming exams. SMC Tostal gives students the chance to relax for a change.” 
Peterson said the Tostal is a chance to allow students to relax for free. 
“We are lucky that we can provide such a fun-filled day, all for free, just for the students.,” Peterson said. “They really deserve this, and SAB really hopes they enjoy all the events we planned.” 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 

Macwan: Unjust caste system needs change 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
The injustices of the caste sys­tem have plagued Indian society throughout the 3,000 years the system has been in place, but scholar and activist Martin Macwan said he believes the time is coming for a change. 
Macwan presented a lecture Tuesday, hosted by the Kroc Institute, at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies, titled “Annihilating Caste Discrimination: The Silent Revolution of India’s Dalits,” in which he addressed the causes and potential remedies for caste conflict and its consequences for the Dalits, the lowest caste group known as the “untouchables.” 
Macwan, the founder of the Navsarjan Trust, said he hopes to apply his organization’s scholarly census research to combat the very real issue of social injustice in India’s caste system. 
“It’s a systemic issue, and if you want to address systemic issues, you need a broad-based organiza­tion,” Macwan said. “The question is, is there a link between research and action? I’m trying to create the synergy between the academic and the grassroots action.” 


Macwan said the “systemic issue” of castes needs to be addressed on all of its political, social, economic and religious ele­ments. 
Macwan said a major problem is the disproportionate prevalence of the upper-castes in high gov­ernment positions. He said 78 per­cent of the judiciary comes from only one class: the Brahmans. 
While the caste system is origi­nally drawn from Hindu teach­ings, it has become an institution within other major religions in India, including Christianity and Islam. 
“Essentially the caste system is part of Hinduism ... it is sanctified by the religion and scripture,” Macwan said. “Even today, though, you’ll find separate churches for Dalit and non-Dalit Christians.” 
The social element of the caste system, Macwan said, is how the caste system has been perpetuat­ed for so many years. 
“Part of it is socialization, which is how the system is taught from generation to generation,” he said. 
Perhaps the most central of the problems fueling the caste system is the pervasive economic inequal­ity in India, especially regarding land and employment. 
“In many cases, they have legal possession, but they don’t have the actual land, it’s being encroached on,” he said. “Most people are employed by caste-based occupations, and the self employment rate among Dalits is less than one percent.” 
The solution to these pervasive and complex problems, Macwan said, is large-scale action starting from the bottom. 
“We realized social movements are effective when they are led by grassroots efforts,” he said. “Our program is going from village to village, telling people they are equal and there is a law.” 
Ultimately, Macwan said real change will come as more of the Dalits become aware of the back­ward nature of the caste system and become engaged in the move­ment. 
“It’s very important that the change is led by the people that have suffered from untouchabili­ty,” he said. “The counterrevolu­tion is coming from the value that people are equal ... the struggle is on because people believe it is their right.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 7, 2010 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
New administration leads COR discussion 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
Census participation and pep rally reform were among dis­cussion topics at the first Council of Representatives (COR) meeting under student body president Catherine Soler and vice president Andrew Bell Tuesday. 
“A lot can get accomplished at COR,” Soler said. “A lot of the decisions that we make as an administration are based on your feedback.” 
Soler turned the discussion to the census forms currently being administered to the stu­dent body. She said student government is pushing for Notre Dame students to com­plete the census by sponsoring a dorm competition. The resi­dence hall with the most partic­ipation will receive a pizza party from Hot Box Pizza. 
“We can receive up to $1,200 of federal funding for each per­son who completes the census,” Soler said. “It’s also incredibly helpful to the South Bend com­munity.” 
One of the ongoing issues Soler brought to COR is the state of football pep rallies, which have been the source of much criticism. 
“Pep rally reform is a big issue and is something that we’ve really been working hard on,” she said. 

“They’re listening and they’ve been taking us seriously,” she said. “We know what the stu­dents want and we feel that we’ve really been making progress.” 
Soler said Irish football coach Brian Kelly will meet with COR in two weeks to continue the discussion about pep rallies. 
“Coach Kelly is going to set aside an hour to talk to us,” she said. “This is really important because we’re the first student group he’s going to talk to.” 
COR members approved sophomores Erin Pankiw, James Kenney and Elle Metz as Directors of Special Events. Freshman Brandon Vo was approved as Director of Communication and sopho­mores Claire Sunderland and Ricky Bevington were approved as Directors of First University Experience in Leadership Program for next year. 
Soler closed the meeting by reminding the new council of the importance of their role as members of COR. 
“As leaders of student organi­zations, you can bring issues here to COR to discuss or get feedback; anything on the table is open to discussion,” she said. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 
Debate 
continued from page 1 
year’s Commencement ceremo­ny, Notre Dame’s identity as a Catholic university has been crit­icized. 
“To shun an important, admit­tedly controversial, member of the academic community in Mr. Hitchens would be to betray Notre Dame’s commitment to a holistic, liberal arts education, in my opinion,” Doan said. 
Some students around campus agreed with Doan’s sentiment and felt the debate would actual­ly help strengthen their faith. 
“As when Obama visited our campus last year to give the Commencement address, it is important to open a dialogue with those who disagree with Catholic teaching in order to strengthen our own beliefs,” jun­ior Zach Reuvers said. “The University cannot fulfill their mission of educating hearts and minds if they only present one side of an issue.” 
Junior Scott McIntosh, who is a theology minor, said ignoring works “by individuals such as Hitchens only hurts Catholicism.” 
“By engaging in civilized dia­logue with those who have opposing beliefs, we can not only deepen our own understanding of the Scriptures, but also share and articulate the beliefs of the Catholic Church in the hopes that others may see what the Church has to offer,” he said. 
Sophomore Dennis Grabowski said hosting the debate is impor­tant for sustaining an intellectual climate at Notre Dame. 
“This debate has importance for all those who seek to pro­mote an atmosphere of discourse on this campus — those who seek an atmosphere in which questions can be better resolved, positions strengthened and oth­ers’ beliefs accepted,” he said 
Grabowski said Notre Dame’s position as the preeminent Catholic university in America made it the perfect forum for the God Debate. 
“There are few forums which are actually improper for the discussion of the existence of God; a University such as ours which seeks to be known as an intellectual one is certainly not among these,” he said. “Indeed, the world’s leading Catholic University is the perfect forum for the discussion of deep reli­gious questions.” 
One complaint about the event centered on its timing. Theology Professor Fr. Neil Roy said it is odd that the God Debate would be scheduled during a holy week. 
“Given the splendid cere­monies of the Easter Triduum just celebrated so magnificently at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart and the ongoing exuber­ance of faith on campus during the Easter Octave, it seems somewhat awkward that this particular event should be scheduled on 7 April — Easter Wednesday,” he said. 
Many students complained about the scarcity of tickets available. Both Reuvers and McIntosh said they were in class while the event sold out and were unable to get tickets after­ward. 
“I was also frustrated by the lack of tickets available to stu­dents,” Reuvers said. “An event of this magnitude should be held in a location that allows a large number of people to attend and I believe a majority of the tickets should be reserved for students.” 
Junior Jessica Hedrich wrote a Letter to the Editor expressing her own frustration with the lack of tickets, but was given a ticket after an event organizer saw her letter. 
“I am a committed Catholic, and I think rationally consider­ing these questions can bring a deeper understanding of my faith and why I believe what I believe,” she said. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 



World & Nation 
Wednesday, April 7, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Police face protesters in Kyrgyzstan 
BISHKEK, Kyrgyzstan — Police have beat­en protesters with batons and fired tear gas into crowds to disperse an anti-government demonstration in a provincial town of the impoverished former Soviet nation of Kyrgyzstan. 
Hundreds of demonstrators angry over ris­ing heat and power prices seized a govern­ment building Tuesday, took a governor hostage and occupied a central square in a town West of the capital, Bishkek. 
Local residents of the town of Talas told The Associated Press by telephone that police took over the square in a matter of minutes, not giving protesters time to use stones and Molotov cocktails they had pre­pared. 
Writers quit to protest censorship 
QUITO, Ecuador — Twenty columnists and contributors to the Ecuadorean state newspaper El Telegrafo said Tuesday they will no longer write for the paper because of alleged censorship. 
In a signed letter sent ato media outlets, the writers said they were quitting to protest “acts of censorship and the viola­tion of the rights of free expression and press freedom.” 
In recent weeks, El Telegrafo’s director and sections editor were removed from their posts and the deputy director resigned amid a disagreement with man­agement over the direction the newspa­per was headed. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
3 plead not guilty in Mass. bullying 
NORTHAMPTON, Mass. — Three Massachusetts teenagers pleaded not guilty through their lawyers Tuesday in the bully­ing of a 15-year-old girl who committed sui­cide after what prosecutors call months of threats and harassment. 
The teens were not required to appear at the hearing in Hampshire Superior Court. 
Sean Mulveyhill and Kayla Narey, both 17 and from South Hadley, and 18-year-old Austin Renaud, of Springfield, will remain free on personal recognizance on the condi­tion that they stay away from the family of Phoebe Prince, the girl who died. 
Mulveyhill and Renaud are charged with statutory rape. Mulveyhill and Narey are also charged with violation of civil rights resulting in bodily injury, criminal harass­ment and disturbance of a school assembly. 
Calif. works to repeal gay study law 
SACRAMENTO — California lawmakers nar­rowly advanced a bill Tuesday that would repeal a state law designed to find the causes and cures of homosexuality. 
The law, written in 1950, classifies homosex­uals as "sexual deviants" and requires the state Department of Mental Health to conduct research on "deviations conducive to sex crimes against children." The research would be used to help identify potential sex offenders. 
The bill moved out of the Assembly Committee on Public Safety on a 4-0 vote, with one Democrat and two Republican members abstaining from voting. They said the law’s ref­erence to homosexuality should be removed but that they want the state to continue researching sex crimes. 
LOCAL NEWS 

3 arrested in police shooting 
GREENCASTLE — Police in western Indiana have arrested three people on pre­liminary charges in connection with a shooting in which a bullet struck a police car. 
Greencastle Police Chief Tom Sutherlin says 24-year-old Justin Hargrove of Greencastle is charged with attempted murder, and he and 18-year-old Michael Pryor of Coatesville both are charged with criminal recklessness with a deadly weapon. A Greencastle woman, 23-year­old Lacey Couch, faces resisting police and assisting a criminal charges. 
ITALY 

Vatican battles ‘hate’ campaign 
Church officials say accusations at the Pope are part of anti-Catholic crusade 
Associated Press 

VATICAN CITY — The Vatican heatedly defended Pope Benedict XVI on Tuesday, claiming accusa­tions that he helped cover up the actions of pedophile priests are part of an anti-Catholic “hate” campaign targeting the pope for his opposition to abortion and same-sex marriage. 
Vatican Radio broadcast comments by two senior cardinals explaining “the motive for these attacks” on the pope and the Vatican newspaper chipped in with spirited comments from another top cardinal. 
“The pope defends life and the family, based on marriage between a man and a woman, in a world in which powerful lobbies would like to impose a com­pletely different” agenda, Spanish Cardinal Julian Herranz, head of the disci­plinary commission for Holy See officials, said on the radio. 
Herranz didn’t identify the lobbies but “defense of life” is Vatican shorthand for anti-abortion efforts. 
Also arguing that Benedict’s promotion of conservative family models had provoked the so-called attacks was the Vatican’s dean of the College of against the Catholic halting the actions of abu-utes up to an hour, Trier Cardinals, Angelo Sodano. church.” sive priests when he was a Diocese spokesman 
“By now, it’s a cultural Rev. Rebecca Voelkel, a Vatican cardinal and earli-Stephan Kronenburg said. contrast,” Sodano told the Minneapolis, Minnesota-er while he was the arch-“Most callers reported Vatican newspaper based minister in the bishop of Munich in his cases of sexual abuse,” he L’Osservatore Romano. United Church of Christ native Germany. told The Associated Press. “The pope embodies moral who is faith work director The mainland European Benedict has ignored vic­truths that aren’t accepted, of the National Gay and scandals — in Germany, tims’ demands that he and so, the shortcomings Lesbian Task Force, Italy, Austria, Denmark and accept responsibility for and errors of priests are described the cardinals’ Switzerland — are erupting what they say is his own used as weapons against comments as “diversionary after decades of abuse personal and institutional the church.” counterattacks” that are an cases in the United States, responsibility for failing to 
Also rallying to Benedict’s affront both to the victims Canada, Australia, Ireland swiftly kick abusive priests side was Italian Cardinal of clergy abuse and to gays and other areas. out of the priesthood, or at Giovanni Lajolo, who heads and lesbians. In Germany, nearly 2,700 least keep them away from the Vatican City State’s gov-“It makes me heartsick,” people called the church’s children. erning apparatus. she said. sexual abuse hot line in the But he has been protect-
The pope “has done all Sex abuse allegations, as first three days it was oper-ed by a vanguard of senior that he could have” against well as accusations of ating, a Catholic church Vatican prelates who are sex abuse by clergy of cover-ups by diocesan bish-spokesman said Tuesday.A fending off what they con-minors, Lajolo said on ops and Vatican officials, team of psychologists and tend is an orchestrated Vatican radio, decrying have swept across Europe other experts have spoken attempt to attack the leader what he described as a in recent weeks. Benedict with 394 people so far, of the world’s more than 1 campaign of “hatred has been criticized for not ranging from several min-billion Catholics. 

BRAZIL 

Record rains kill 95 in Rio De Janeiro 
Associated Press 

RIO DE JANEIRO — The heaviest rains in Rio de Janeiro’s history triggered landslides Tuesday that killed at least 95 people as rising water turned roads into rivers and paralyzed Brazil’s second-largest city. 
The ground gave way in steep hillside slums, cutting red-brown paths of destruction through shan­tytowns. Concrete and wooden homes were crushed and hurtled downhill, only to bury other struc­tures. 
The future host city of the Olympics and football World Cup ground to a near halt as Mayor Eduardo Paes urged workers to stay home and closed all schools. Most businesses were shuttered. 
Eleven inches (29 centimeters) of frain fell in less than 24 hours, and more rain was expected. Officials said potential mudslides threat­ened at least 10,000 homes in the city of 6 million people. 
Paes urged people in endangered areas to take refuge with family or friends and he said no one should venture out. 
“It is not advisable for people to leave their homes,” said Paes. “We want to preserve lives.” 
He told the Web site of the news­paper O Globo that the rainfall was the most that Rio had ever record­ed in such a short period. The pre­vious high was nine inches (24 centimeters) that fell on Jan. 2, 1966. 

President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva urged Brazilians to pray for the rain to stop. 
“This is the greatest flooding in the history of Rio de Janeiro, the biggest amount of rain in a single day,” Silva told reporters in Rio. “And when the man upstairs is nervous and makes it rain, we can only ask him to stop the rain in Rio de Janeiro so we can go on with life in the city.” 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 7, 20105 
2014 
continued from page 1 
years ago,” he said. “There are siblings of Notre Dame students who we couldn’t accommo­date.” 
Of the 2,035 students project­ed to enroll for the fall, Saracino said 23 percent will be of ethnic diversity and 3 percent will be international students. He said, however, statistics are only 
part of the whole 

“We’re meeting 100 
package the new incoming class will percent of the full offer. demonstrated need of 
“It is appropriate 

every student, a 
to say it isn’t fair to boil our appli-commitment we cants and admit-started in 1998 and ted students to 
we’re not backing
numbers,” he said. “Involvement, away. We have community serv-leveled the playingice, leadership, 
feld, and if a student 
talent in music 

and performing wants Notre Dame, arts is great, if not they can come” greater, than ever before.” 
Daniel Saracino
Saracino also 

Assistant Provost of 
said he was pleased to see tal-Admissions 
ented students coming from all over the country and the world. 
“ [I’ve seen] students coming from remote parts of the United States and the world,” he said. “It’s exciting to me to see stu­dents coming from the North Pole, small towns in Wyoming and they’re just as talented as students from New York and Chicago.” 
With the struggling economy, Saracino said more than half the incoming class will likely receive financial aid. 
“We’re estimating that half the students will be on need-based financial aid, three to four percent will be on R.O.T.C. scholarships and seven percent or more will be on financial aid athletic scholarships,” he said. “More than half will only be able to afford Notre Dame because of aid.” 
Saracino said despite the increase in numbers, the University is still committed to meeting all need. 
“We’re meeting 100 percent 
of the full demonstrated need of every student, a commitment we started in 1998 and we’re not backing away,” he said. “We have leveled the playing field, and if a student wants Notre Dame, they can come.” 
Because admissions decisions have been sent out, Saracino said the admissions office will work to answer the 
questions of students deciding whether or not to attend Notre Dame. 
“Notre Dame is not for every­one, we don’t try to claim we are. The best advice I can give to anyone is to visit and talk with the Notre Dame students and possibly shadow a student, spend a night in a residence hall and go to classes,” he said. 
Saracino also said alumni will be calling admitted students to ask if they have any questions or concerns. The Center for 
“This is just such a tragedy because he was just a won-
Recruit 
derful, wonderful kid,” Massa’s mother, Mary, told 
continued from page 1 

the AP. “It’s heartbreaking.” and was also on the Spring Break trip, according to the Contact Matt Gamber at Associated Press. mgamber@nd.edu 
SUB 
continued from page 1 
are known for their fantastic live performances,” Wicht said. “Once the results from the student body survey came in, The Roots became one of our top options.” 
Of the seven genres listed on the survey, hip-hop was the clear preference, said senior Brian Hagerty, the concert’s co -programmer along with Wicht. 
“When we narrowed down our options based on price and availability, we felt that The Roots would put on the best concert and would gen­erate the most excitement among the student body,” he said. 
Hagerty said they did their best to find a group that directly responded to the requests of the student body. 
Mike Posner, a singer, song­writer and producer who has collaborated with various artists, including Kid Cudi and 3OH!3, will open for The Roots. Known for his mixed tapes and high-energy shows, Posner is also scheduled to be a part of this summer ’s Warped Tour. 
Tickets for the SUB spring concert went on sale Tuesday morning and can be pur ­chased at the LaFortune Box Office for $10. Only 1,500 tickets are available and both Wicht and Hagerty said they expect the show to sell out. 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 



Social Concerns and the Dean of ministry, if all that crosses them the First Year of Studies will then it wasn’t meant to be. We contact students as well. want to make sure they don’t 
“After all that, if they say no, choose to go elsewhere because then I feel comfortable. We of some unanswered question.” haven’t lost a student because of an unanswered question,” he Contact Liz O’Donnell at said. “With directors, campus eodonne@nd.edu 



The Observer 

Business
Wednesday, April 7, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

18,000 gallons of oil spill in La. refuge 
NEW ORLEANS — Authorities say a pipeline has spilled 18,000 gallons of crude oil into a canal in a wildlife refuge about 60 miles southeast of New Orleans. 
There was no immediate word about the extent of damage at the Delta National Wildlife Refuge. 
The Coast Guard says Chevron Pipe Line Co. has closed off the leaking section and investigators are evaluating the spill from a plane. 
The Coast Guard says it learned about the spill about 1 a.m. Tuesday and is investigating the cause. 
The refuge covers nearly 49,000 acres of marsh in Plaquemines Parish, near the mouth of the Mississippi River. It holds a number of bird rook­eries and provides a place for migratory birds to rest as well as winter habitat for ducks and other wild fowl. 
Dartmouth faces worker complaints 
CONCORD, N.H. — Dartmouth College on Tuesday disputed allegations that it has failed to bargain in good faith in negotiating a contract for workers at the college-owned Hanover Inn. 
The union representing 65 hotel workers filed a complaint last week with the National Labor Relations Board alleging that college administrators have refused to consider the union’s contract proposals or offer any of their own. The union, which also represents 500 food service, maintenance, security and other campus workers, has been trying to negotiate contracts that avoid significant lay­offs as the college cuts its budget by $100 million over two years, said union president Earl Sweet. 
“We’re trying to make sure people have their jobs there. We want to toughen some of the language in the contract to meet that,” he said. “The reason we put out our proposals was to have them react to that, which they did by saying that they couldn’t discuss it.” 
According to the complaint, the college informed union officials in late March that it would not discuss the union’s proposals. Sweet said the college also has said the food service and other employees could work under the conditions of their old contracts when they expire in July, but the Hanover Inn employees cannot. 
FCC loses ruling on ‘neutrality’ 
Comcast Corp. victory could mean limited expansion of broadband in the U.S. 
Associated Press  
WASHINGTON — A feder­ 
al court threw the future of  
Internet regulations into  
doubt Tuesday with a far- 
reaching decision that went  
against the Federal  
C o m m u n i c a t i o n s  
Commission and could even  
hamper the government’s  
plans to expand broadband  
access in the United States.  
The U.S. Court of Appeals  
for the District of Columbia  
ruled that the FCC lacks  
authority to require broad­ 
band providers to give equal  
treatment to all Internet  
traffic flowing over their  
networks. That was a big  
victory for Comcast Corp.,  
the nation’s largest cable  
company, which had chal­ 
lenged the FCC’s authority  
to impose such “network  
neutrality” obligations on  
broadband providers.  
Supporters of network  
neutrality, including the FCC  
chairman, have argued that  
the policy is necessary to  
prevent broadband  
providers from favoring or  
discriminating against cer­ 
tain Web sites and online  
services, such as Internet  
phone programs or software  
that runs in a Web browser. AP  
Advocates contend there is A construction worker installs fiber-optic lines for broadband access which may be at risk  
precedent: nondiscrimina­of limited expansion after recent setbacks for the FCC.  
tion rules have traditionally  
applied to so-called “com­ tions for the ambitious  mary goal was always to  that Martin’s successor,  
mon carrier” networks that  national broadband-expan­ clear our name and reputa- Democratic FCC Chairman  
serve the public, from roads  sion plan released by the  tion.”  Julius Genachowski, is try- 
and highways to electrical  FCC last month. The FCC  The case centers on  ing to formalize those rules.  
grids and telephone lines.  needs the authority to regu­ Comcast’s actions in 2007  The cable company had  
But broadband providers  late broadband so that it  when it interfered with an  also argued the FCC lacks  
such as Comcast, AT&T Inc.  can push ahead with some  online file-sharing service  authority to mandate net  
and Verizon  of the plan’s key recommen­ called BitTorrent, which lets  neutrality because it had  
Communications Inc. argue  dations. Among other  people swap movies and  deregulated broadband  
that after spending billions  things, the FCC proposes to  other big files over the  under the Bush administra­ 
of dollars on their networks,  expand broadband by tap- Internet. The next year the  tion, a decision upheld by  
they should be able to sell  ping the federal fund that  FCC banned Comcast from  the Supreme Court in 2005.  
premium services and man- subsidizes telephone service  blocking subscribers from  The FCC now defines  
age their systems to prevent  in poor and rural communi­ using BitTorrent. The com- broadband as a lightly regu­ 
certain applications from  ties.  mission, at the time headed  lated information service.  
hogging capacity.  In a statement, the FCC  by Republican Kevin Martin,  That means it is not subject  
Tuesday’s unanimous rul­ said it remains “firmly com- based its order on a set of  to the “common carrier”  
ing by the three-judge panel  mitted to promoting an open  net neutrality principles it  obligations that make tradi­ 
was a setback for the FCC  Internet and to policies that  had adopted in 2005.  tional telecommunications  
because it questioned the  will bring the enormous  But Comcast argued that  services share their net­ 
agency’s authority to regu­ benefits of broadband to all  the FCC order was illegal  works with competitors and  
late broadband. That could  Americans” and “will rest  because the agency was  treat all traffic equally. But  
cause problems beyond the  these policies ... on a solid  seeking to enforce mere pol- the FCC maintains that  
FCC’s effort to adopt official  legal foundation.”  icy principles, which don’t  existing law gives it authori­ 
net neutrality regulations. It  Comcast welcomed the  have the force of regulations  ty to set rules for informa­ 
also has serious implica­ decision, saying “our pri­ or law. That’s one reason  tion services.  

Recession doesn’t hamper birth rates 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA — U.S. births fell in 2008, probably because of the reces­sion, updated government figures confirm. The one exception to the trend was the birth rate among women in their 40s, who perhaps felt they didn’t have the luxury of waiting for better economic times. 
The birth rate for women in their early 40s rose a surprising 4 percent over the previous year, reaching its highest mark since 1967. The rate for women in their late 40s also rose, slightly. 
But birth rates fell for teen moth­ers, as well as women in their 20s and 30s. 
“Women are postponing births to those later ages, above 40,” said James Trussell, director of Princeton University’s Office of Population Research. 
Experts don’t know for certain why so many are delaying having babies, though some suspect the economy is a big factor. However, “you get to the point where the biological clock starts ticking and people realize they have to do it,” said Trussell, who was not involved in the research. 
The new report on births was issued Tuesday by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. It’s based on a review of more than 99 percent of birth certificates for the year 2008 — the first full year of the recession. Overall, about 4.2 million babies were born that year, a 2 per­cent drop from 2007. It’s the first annual decline in births since the start of the decade. 

Experts say the most likely expla­nations are the recession and a decline in immigration to the United States, which has been blamed on the weak job market. 
Some early birth information for the first six months of 2009 indicates a continuing decline of about 3 per­cent in total births, CDC officials said. 
Last summer, the agency gave a first glimpse of the 2008 numbers. The new report confirms the birth rate decline, and also gives a break­down of births by age group. 
The new report found that birth rates fell by 3 percent for women in their early 20s, 2 percent for women in their late 20s, and 1 percent for women in their 30s. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Wednesday, April 7, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 

NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 

OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4324 lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 pcoveney@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Amanda Gray Michael Bryan Megan Doyle Matt Robison Caitlyn Kalscheur Andrew Owens 
Graphics Scene 
Sofia Iturbe Jordan Gamble 
Viewpoint 
Patricia Fernandez 

Hitchens-D’Souza: A Primer 
This evening, Christopher Hitchens, the famous, and sometimes infamous, British-American journalist and anti-the­ist will debate Dinesh D’Souza, a star of the Conservative right movement in the states. This event has been billed “The God Debate” at Notre Dame, and certainly should prove interesting for everybody in attendance. However, many stu­dents I have talked 

Jason Coleman 
to don’t know too much about either 

Man at Large
debater, much less what positions they generally hold and should be expected to argue tonight, so I took it upon myself to do a little research and watch some of their past debate. 
I’ll begin with the more well known of the two debaters, Christopher Hitchens. As a journalist he has written for The Atlantic and The Nation, and currently pens columns for Vanity Fair. In addition to his columns and magazine work, he has penned a myriad of independent works, including “God is Not Great: How Religion Poisons Everything,” the piece in which he laid out his extensive argument against major monotheistic religions. 
In an age where writers and thinkers are largely expected to hold one particu­lar view steadfastly throughout their career, Hitchens has unapologetically gone from being a socialist to somewhat of a libertarian, and from a Nader sup­porter in 2000 to a slightly leaning Bush supporter in 2004. He has alienated many former colleagues over his support for the Iraq War but remains at odds with other conservatives that play to the Religious Right. 
Dinesh D’Souza, on the other hand, has been a fairly consistent conservative thinker from his Dartmouth days through his time as a Reagan advisor and into a number of conservative fellowship posi­tions. D’Souza is certainly an unabashed Christian apologist, with the groundwork of his argument put forth in his 2007 book, “What’s So Great About Christianity.” For his part, D’Souza argues the compatibility of religion and technology, the benefits of Christian moral values in the United States and the importance of Christianity on history. While he has inspired much controversy on numerous points, past debates have shown him to be more than capable of handling himself. 
The “God Debate” tonight is not the first time these two have debated the effects of religion on society. In 2007, they debated at the decidedly religious King’s College in New York City. Again, in 2009, they debated in front of an audience of nearly 7,000 at the University of Central Florida. Both debates played out similar­ly. D’Souza was generally calmer, acting in more of a college debate style, making points in order and looking for direct rebuttal to each. Hitchens is much more cavalier and perhaps more rhetorical in his presentation. While his arguments 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Respectful dialogue 
Two very skilled debaters are going to butt heads on one of the most impor­tant questions in a world that is becoming increasingly more secular, and they’re going to do it at Notre Dame. 
I cannot stress how important this event will be for Notre Dame, especially in the wake of the Obama controversy. The debate format is the ideal format for academic discussion. This debate will serve as the fuel for Jenkins’s pro­posal for respectful dialogue. Let me explain why: 
It does three things that the Obama commencement speech could not do: It gives two opposing sides equal speaking time, it neither supports nor con­demns either speaker and, best of all, it does not declare a winner. So, when Hitchens calls God a “totalitarian dictator” we have an equally skilled oppo­nent ready to challenge him. Sy Doan’s (“Christopher Hitchens is the next Obama,” March 25) concerns that Hitchens is “vehemently antagonistic toward the institution of the Church as a whole” are well-founded, but they are more than adequately accounted for by the presence of Dinesh D’Souza. D’Souza is a tested debater, specifically against Hitchens. I have seen him debate Hitchens two different times and each time Hitchens delivered incendi­ary remarks, D’Souza put up a brilliant defense and countered effectively. 
This is exactly what Notre Dame should have been doing for years. If Notre Dame wants to be respected as an elite institution for higher learning it needs to respect contrarian beliefs and values first. As Dennis Grabowski said in his recent Viewpoint “Debate good for learning” (March 30), “There is nothing more conducive to introspection or the consequential strengthening of one’s faith than the presence of an opposition to that faith.” By bringing in two big name intellectuals, Notre Dame shows that they are willing to back up their ideas for respectful dialogue with clearly defined action. Best of all, Notre Dame doesn’t have to concede anything. It shows that we are up for the chal­lenge presented by the caustic Hitchens and the atheist movement in general. So, bring it on Hitchens. This is a win-win for Old Notre Dame. 
Nicholas Brandt 
sophomore Stanford Hall March 30 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“More often than not, a hero’s most epic battle is the one you never see;it’s the battle that goes on withinhim or herself.” 
Kevin Smith 
U.S. screenwriter 


are less organized, they often cover a lot of ground in a short amount of time. 
As for the winner of each debate, every review online has largely been more indicative of the writer’s predisposition, it seems. Atheist bent blogs and magazines declared Hitchens the winner, and reli­gious writers awarded D’Souza the victo­ry. Looking forward, what does that mean for tonight? Most audience mem­bers will probably judge the winner based on their own initial bias. This isn’t to take the air out of the event, but to note that the content of the debate may be more important and informative than simply seeing who can land the most knockout blows down the home stretch. 
Although both individuals are larger-than-life public intellectuals, neither are the type of academic thinkers that care­fully outline key issues, attempt to create some agreement on definitions and move forward cautiously and courteously. Rather, they are giants of their own par­ticular view who defend it vigorously with little regard to the academic thorough­ness in the debate. However, would stu­dents have been lined up out the door to snag a ticket to see two old professors slowly consider every point before mov­ing forward? Nah, that would have been much too boring. 
Jason Coleman is a senior accounting major. He can be contacted at coleman.70@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
We owe our gratitude 
We at Notre Dame are blessed by a large number of prople who provide services which enhance our lives and are sometimes taken for granted. We owe much gratitude to the Grounds workers, the cleaning staffs, our Security people and our Fire Department. Without these men and women, our lives would not be as meaning­ful as they are. Be sure to say a big THANKS to those who serve us as their ministry to Notre Dame. 
Jerome Meyer, C.S.C. 
rector Knott Hall March 31 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“No one is ready for a thing until hebelieves he can acquire it.” 
Napoleon Hill
U.S. author 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, April 7, 2010 page 9 
Just the facts 
Editors note: This is the first install­ment in a series of columns by Notre Dame faculty members exploring current scholarly research in sexuality concen­trating on sexual orientation and related issues. 
To discuss sexual-Agustín ity and sexual ori-
Fuentes 
entation we need to have the basics of 

Guest
what is known 

Columnist
about sexual behav­ior; we must estab­lish a comparative context. This informa­tion is not about judging right or wrong, but rather it forms a baseline of what occurs in the world. The information pre­sented here is from research in biology and anthropology, and is readily avail­able in peer-reviewed journals, scholarly books published by University presses, and textbooks used at Universities. 
Our first level of comparative context: homosexual behavior is common in social mammals. 
Humans are mammals, and in mam­mals, the more complex the social lives of a species the higher the frequency of sexual activity outside of reproductive contexts (we call this social sex). Social sex occurs both hetero-and homosexual­ly. Examples of species with complex social lives and frequent social sex are whales, dolphins, wild dogs and pri­mates. Humans belong to the order of mammals called primates. Social sex is very common in many monkey and ape species. In all apes (our closest relatives), and in many monkey species, homosexu­al activity is common. However, preferen­tial homosexuality is rare in non-human primate species. Interestingly, humans are the only species that occasionally responds with specific aggression to indi­viduals who are engaged in homosexual activity. 
Our second level of comparative con­text: Homosexuality is a ubiquitous fea­ture of humankind. 
Between three to eight percent of indi­viduals in all human populations are homosexually oriented (regardless of the culture’s stance on homosexuality), but the frequency of homosexual sexual activity in a given culture can be much higher than that. There are nearly seven billion humans on the planet and thou­sands of cultures. Humans are highly variable in many facets of behavior (for example, what and how people eat across the planet). Humans have com­plex and variable sexualities. Some of the factors that affect this variation are: age, gender, culture, ethnicity, individual experience, biology, religion, health, etc. The most common patterns of sexual behavior in humans are: General physi­cal contact, Genital-genital contact, Manual-genital contact, Oral-genital con­tact and Oral-oral contact. While hetero­sexual sexual interactions are the most common type of sexual behavior, homo­sexual behavior is found in all human populations. 
There is a wide range of what human cultures consider “normal” in regards to homosexuality. This information comes from ethnographic research (in-depth studies of what people in a given culture actually do). We have much more infor­mation about male homosexuality than we do about female homosexuality. Most cultures have a degree of inclusion (from high to moderate) where homosexually oriented individuals are part of norma­tive society and daily social lives. Some cultures recognize homosexual individu­als as a third gender (not male, not female) and integrate them into their society as such. Other cultures define a male as a homosexual only if he is the submissive partner in the sexual act. There are also cultures that have very strong restrictions against homosexual behavior, with a few of these cultures having a penalty of death for engaging in homosexual sexual activity. 
In most cultures there is a distinction regarding sexuality before and after marriage. In many cultures, the years of adolescence and young adulthood are seen as times of sexual experimentation with marriage being the transition to adult sexuality. In these cases there is often no differentiation made between homo-and heterosexual activity in pre­marriage sexuality. However, it is usually expected that once married, men and women will engage in heterosexual inter­actions only with their spouse. In other cultures we see strong prohibitions on sexual behavior prior to marriage, and this is usually associated with a reduced tolerance of homosexuality in the society. 

In many of these cases the prohibition on sexual activity is stronger for females than males. At the other end of this spec­trum are a few societies where hetero­sexual interactions between spouses are rare and for reproductive purposes only, and the preferred type of sexual interac­tions are homosexual, and usually between males. There are also few soci­eties where male homosexual sex is not considered sexual activity but rather a core part of masculinity and male devel­opment. 
A baseline from biology and anthropol­ogy demonstrates that homosexual behavior is common in complex animals and that homosexuality is a ubiquitous feature of humankind, but that different cultures view and engage with homosex­ual individuals in widely varying man­ners. 
This column is meant as one of the many informational contributions to enhance our ability, as a University, to move forward with the important discus­sion about sexuality and sexual orienta­tion in an informed and scholarly man­ner. Keep thinking and talking, the cre­ation, assessment, and dissemination of knowledge is what academia is all about. Ignorance is not bliss, it is just ignorance. 
Agustín Fuentes is a professor of Anthropology. He can be contacted at afuentes@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
“So,” I said. “I was thinking that I would give my students John Lennon as an example of the Overman.” 
Peter laughed. “I don’t think that it’s okay to tease your students like that. Half of them won’t get the Daniel John joke.” 
Sportiello 
“Ah!” I said. “The joke. Yes. 

Guest
Exactly.” I left his 

Columnist
office before he had a chance to sense my embarrassment — which he, being British, can do — and found my way downstairs to Decio Commons. But by the time that I ran into John, I had regained my courage. “Do you think that John Lennon is the Overman?” 
He laughed. “I can’t believe that you would think that.” That Nietzsche had heralded Lennon as the first of a new race of heroic artists was ridiculous, he explained: the Overman, quite clearly, is Jimmy Page. 
It was only later that I realized that my question had been ambiguous — for John Lennon is really two men, not one. 
The first is heir to modernity — to humanity freed from its bonds. After four centuries of desperate struggle against their inheritance, men could finally scream unto God their defi­ance — could tell him of their disbe­lief in him. At last, they said to them­selves, we are free — are no longer slaves but rather gods. We need admit our brokenness to no one now, not even ourselves. 
And yet this freedom, Nietzsche saw, was still a lie: “we men of knowledge of today — we godless men and anti-metaphysicians — we, too, still derive our flame from the fire ignited by a faith millennia old: the Christian faith, which was also Plato’s, that God is truth, that truth is divine.” Men had sacrificed God on the altar of Truth — and, in doing so, 
Overman 
had unwittingly reenacted the oldest story of all, the sacrifice of God to God. That men no longer believed in God was irrelevant: so long as they believed in anything at all, they were still slaves living in the fear of him. 
But to disbelieve not just in magic and I Ching and Bible and tarot but also in Hitler and Jesus and Kennedy and Buddha? To disbelieve in mantra and Gita and yoga and kings — in Elvis and Zimmerman and even Beatles? And yet, somehow, to go on living? If a man were to do this and do it truly, he would become some­thing more than a man — would become someone who, somehow, cre­ates within himself, here and now, whatever value that there is in the world. He would be one who could truly imagine that there was no Hell below us, and above us only sky. He would be the only God left. 
This Overman would be the first with the courage to be neither Dreamweaver — First Man, the child of God who derives his value from above — nor Walrus — Last Man, the student of the absurd who despairs of value: now, he would be merely John — neither more nor less — and thus Reality. The Dream would final­ly be over. 
All of this is, of course, colossal nonsense: when Nietzsche heralds his Overman, MacIntyre notes, his rhetoric “becomes cloudy and opaque, and metaphorical assertion replaces argument.” Had he tried to speak clearly of his Overman, Nietzsche would have realized that he belongs “in the pages of a philo­sophical bestiary rather than in seri­ous discussion.” Indeed, man as God is but a phantasm, a fever dream that will haunt us until the last day. But that does not mean that we can­not chase after it in the meantime, breaking the world in the process. 
MacIntyre agrees: “Whenever those immersed in the bureaucratic culture of the age,” he writes, “try to think their way through to the moral foun­dations of what they are and what they do, they will discover sup­pressed Nietzschean premises. And consequently it is possible to predict with confidence that in the apparent­ly quite unlikely contexts of bureau­cratically managed modern societies there will periodically emerge social movements informed by just that kind of prophetic irrationalism of which Nietzsche’s thought is the ancestor.” This past century — the culmination of a supposed Enlightenment — bore witness to Mao and Hitler and Stalin — to times of madness in which humanity, freed from its bonds, tried to tear itself apart. 
The great irony, of course, is that these remain mere aberrations: left to themselves, men will only occa­sionally want to watch the world burn; more often, they will seek only sex and drugs and cable television. Such men are the brethren of the second John Lennon — the buffoon who imagined a world with nothing to kill or die for — and no religion, too. 
To experience such a world, of course, requires only eyesight, not imagination. For all of his posturing, the real Lennon was like the rest of us: in his effort to become something more than a man, he lost his way and somehow become something less 
— someone for whom the meager dream of merely living life in peace is the only one left. And this, I take it, is what Peter and John were try­ing to tell me: in seeking the Overman, I found only the Last Man. God gone, he is the only man left to find. 
Daniel John Sportiello is a graduate student in Philosophy. He can be contacted at afuentes@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR Memorial to Matt James 
To Matt James Love, Notre Dame 
80,000 fans cheering in delight. Highlight reels. Our field. He woulda been a friend to all, if only for that fall. We can’t know how you feel, to have your son fall away just like that, in no time flat. 
But here at Notre Dame, we feel your pain. We wish everything was still the same. We wish we could watch your son play the game. We wish we could watch him rise to fame. Instead he rose high to heaven. 
High above the 7/11s, High above Memorial, High above South Bend, This morning, and every morning, our friend that never was watches over our mourning town. His memorial. He’s one of us. 
He’ll be with us each game, 
we’ll remember his name. 
Matt James: 
We never knew you. 
But we’ll never forget you. 
Sam Deery-Schmitt 
freshman Morrissey Hall April 3 
The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Wednesday, April 7, 2010 

ROME — Easter Mass at the Vatican is by no means for the fainthearted faithful. 
The day started at 5:30 a.m. for the Saint Mary’s girls who stayed in Rome for Easter, or “Pasqua” in Italian, after the end of the Rome program’s semester. We hopped on the metro to St. Peter’s Basilica and were in line to get into the square by 6:40, and already there were at least 70 people ahead of us. Every 15 minutes after, the line seemed to grow by a hundred — luckily we were on the edge and could sneak out for cappuccinos to get us through to 8:15, when the gates opened. 
When police started letting the crowd through, the force of a thousand people pushed us forward and through to the security sta­
tions. Seeing people pass through the security stations was like 
being at a human Kentucky Derby 
— as soon as they got the green light, everyone shot out toward the finish line of seats nearest to the altar set up outside on the steps of the Basilica. 
This race was in no way graceful. It proceed­ed in a strange walk-run-skip motion meant to keep the semblance of polite, civilized people on their way to Mass, when really the “every man for himself” mentality was in overdrive. Since we were in the front, we were sitting about 20 rows back and could watch the crowd fill into St. Peter’s. 
There wasn’t the kind of intense, disgruntled atmosphere you would expect when thousands of people are trying to cram themselves into one space. Excitement was the emotional cur­rent of the day. 
Two hours before the Mass was scheduled to start, people started waving their country flags back and forth over the crowd, a few strung up on old fishing rods. One group was even hold-ing up one strip of card­board that simply had “Vietnam” written on it in Sharpie. 


The weather had forecasted rain since 6 a.m. It had only sprinkled twice during the two hours of waiting, but everyone around was armed with pon­chos and umbrellas. It seemed as though we might be granted an Easter miracle and escape without too much rain. Then, five minutes before Mass started, the sky opened up and it began to pour. Umbrellas went up, plastic bags got tied to heads and people fumbled into ponchos as the Pope processed out to the altar with a parade of drums and Swiss Guards. 
The entire Mass continued in absolutely miserable wet cold, but the weather didn’t seem to ruin the event for anyone. We sang from our booklets, listened to the readings in several different languages and tried not to get our umbrellas hooked in anyone’s hair. 
The rain seemed to bring out the triumphant Catholic spir­it in small but heart­
warming ways. People were loaning others spare umbrellas or even passing 
out tissues to the people around them to wipe their wet chair seats. The rain 
made waving big flags a bit ougher, but it didn’t seem to old off any of those who 
wanted to celebrate their ountry’s presence at the Mass. Thankfully, an hour and a half in, the sky cleared and the 
mbrellas went down, and we were finally able to see Pope Benedict XVI up on the altar. We hook hands and exchanged 
peace with the peo­ple around us — 
ome Italians, but mostly people from many different coun­ries. For the 

Eucharist, priests came down the aisles every few feet accompa­nied by a man holding Vatican yellow and white umbrellas. Italian line rules were in effect – that is, there were no rules, except to get to the front as quickly as possible. 
Before the Pope could end Mass, the rain started again, and up went all the umbrellas. As he ended the Mass and we waited for his address, people from all across the square started chanti­ng, “Benedicto! Benedicto! Benedicto!” for the entire 10 minutes before he finally emerged from behind the red velvet curtain of his perch above the square. 

At that point, the audience became a sea of flags from all over the world — no U.S. flags that I could see, although there was one from the state of Texas — and the crowd became a mixture of shouts of “Viva Papa!” and wild yells. 
The pope made his address in Italian and gave a blessing in every language imaginable. Every group erupted with cheering on hearing their language, waving flags and hats and everything else around. 
In spite of the rain and the current contro­versy surrounding the Catholic Church and the pope, nothing seemed to dampen the celebra­tion of the faithful in St. Peter’s Square on Easter. Emerging at least spiritually stronger from the cold, the crowds and the rain, those gathered in Rome on Easter seem to feel that the Catholic Church would do the same going into the future. 
The views expressed in this Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker1@saintmarys.edu 

Photos courtesy of Courtney Eckerle 

From left, Saint Mary’s sophomores Nora Cusick, Courtney Eckerle and Christine Martin stake out their rain-soaked seats for the Easter Sunday Mass in the Vatican on April 4. 

SOFIA ITURBE I Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Wednesday, April 7, 2010 page 11 
By TATIANA SPRAGINS 
Scene Writer 

When it was released in 2000, the British film “Billy Elliot” was a box office success and earned three Oscar nominations. A few years later, it was adapted into a Broadway play that would become just as, if not more, suc­cessful than the movie. The show has graced stages in London, New York and now Chicago. 
Billy Elliot is a boy who accidentally discovers a love and real talent for bal­let. He is an 11-year-old whose mother has died, whose grandmother is old and losing her memory (along with her sani­ty) and whose father and brother are both miners in a northern England min­ing town. 
The year is 1984 and a huge strike is taking place at the mine where Billy’s father and brother work. The atmos­phere is tense and Billy’s newfound pas­sion is kept hidden from his family, who would surely be unsupportive if they knew. Given this scenario, Billy tries to continue learning ballet and, with the support and encouragement of his teacher, ultimately decides to audition for the Royal Ballet School — which means he would have to tell his family about his secret. 
As a Broadway-style show, “Billy Elliot” is an outstanding display of talent and of hard work. The musical does a wonderful job of adapting the movie and the dialogue into songs accompanied by beautiful ballet and tap dance perform­ances. Children are a big part of the cast, not only for the character of Billy himself, but his friends and ballet class­mates. A Broadway play whose main roles are executed by children is unusu­al and ultimately made for an all the more impressive performance. 
Another interesting and unique aspect of this play is its genre. Broadway nor­mally deals with either comedy or more “magical” and ”childish” themes (such as box office successes: “The Lion King,” “Wicked,” “Mamma Mia,” “Mary Poppins,” “Avenue Q” and even the stage adaptation of “Shrek”). 

The show’s creators tried to make the original film’s plot a little lighter at times and had a few (not very funny) jokes. This lighter mood would transi­tion, somewhat roughly, to very heavy scenes. A difference from the play to the movie is also the attention given to the political aspects in the background of the story. 
The miners’ strike and Margaret Thatcher’s controversial labor policies in the 1980s helped to create interesting subplots to the play and were important to setting up the background. The vio­lent demonstrations against Thatcher’s heavily-contested decision to lessen the power of trade unions were transformed into aggressive and powerful dance per­formances. Thatcher is repeatedly refer­enced and even depicted as evil and inflicting harm to the lives of the work­ers. This political and social aspect has been more thoroughly developed in the stage adaptation and gives Billy’s story a more complete setting. 
Broadway does not attempt to merely tell a story, but to create an entire world on stage, sort of like a “live” movie. For this reason, and due to the nature of musicals, the plays usually stick to more imaginative and funny stories. “Billy Elliot,” however, is very dramatic – but with the heavily dance-based plot, it managed to translate beautifully into a Broadway musical. “Billy Elliot” on Broadway cost over three times the original film’s budget, at a grand total of $18 million. The high production values paid off when the show won ten Tony awards. 
It is interesting to note that, unlike most musicals, there were many dances with no songs and songs with no dance, a consequence of the dramatic nature of the play. This way, messages could be communicated more effectively and the technical aspects of dance were better highlighted. The progression of Billy’s dance skills is very much highlighted throughout the play: Two of the most impressive scenes are when he displays his anger when not allowed to audition, and later a dance with his “older” coun­terpart, showing Billy’s incredible talent and his complete transition to a gifted ballet dancer. 
The only distracting factor from the “Billy Elliot” stage show was the forced accents of the American actors. The strong and sometimes incomprehensible Cockney accent in the movie is imitated in the stage adaptation and sounds odd at times. 

However, in the end “Billy Elliot” is a lovely combination of different types of dance, singing and a dramatic family plot in a tense political background. While this drama makes it a little differ­ent from traditional Broadway musicals, the play is fun to watch and definitely one to consider when visiting Chicago. 

Contact Tatiana Spragins at tspragin@nd.edu 
Sea” in your head, here are a meal (Scuttle the seagull is pretty great, too). few more reasons why you Disney movies are chock full of Prince know you love “The Little Charmings. But are any as charming as Prince Mermaid.” Eric? He’s tall, dark and handsome, he loves his 
Ariel is totally loveable. dog and he wants to find true love. Oh, and he’s 
Though she lacks the bookish not afraid to run a broken mast into a giant sea smarts and strong-willed independ-witch in order to save said true love. He really is ence of our darling Belle, Ariel’s a true Renaissance man. curiosity, determination and red hair “The Little Mermaid,” released in 1989, strad­
more than make up for it. Every little dles that awkward barrier between the 80s and girl wanted to be her for Halloween 90s. But it does it with style. It keeps the well-
because she’s just the coolest. And coifed hair of the 80s, but combines it with the she saved Prince Eric’s life! She’s brilliance that is children’s entertainment of the no damsel in distress, that’s for 90s. sure. “The Little Mermaid” is considered a renais­
She’s also headstrong, but in sance for Disney Studios, which, until its release, the best possible way. And had failed to create a true classic since everyone digs a rebellious “Sleeping Beauty” in 1958. While “Robin Hood,” streak. While most never went “The Aristocats” and “The Great Mouse behind their father’s back to Detective” are beloved by many, most Disney turn from mermaid to human, films from this stagnant period fall by the way-Ariel is easily the most realistic side compared to their predecessors and succes­princess in the Disney reper-sors. 
toire. Yes, Jasmine is way cool, “The Little Mermaid” revitalized the brand, but everyone sees a little of her-paving the way for brilliant films from “Aladdin” self in the ginger princess of the sea. to “Wall-E.” The new Disney of the90s also The other characters of “The Little proved that princesses don’t have to wait for Mermaid” are just as appealing. Ursula is Prince Charming to save the day, and that pop easily one of the best villains in the Disney music goes just as well with animation as do the universe. She’s as scary as the evil queen in more classical songs of Disney’s past. “Snow White,” as funny as Captain Hook and Where would we children of the 80s and 90s looks like a cross between Medusa, Joan be without “The Little Mermaid”? Lost in a sea 
Rivers and RuPaul. Her big song, “Poor (pun definitely intended) of mediocre children’s Unfortunate Souls,” steals the show and lets the animation, like that rubbish your little brother busty baddie primp and parade herself into watches on Nickelodeon — that’s where we’d be. Ariel’s good graces, nabbing her beautiful voice So take a few minutes out of your weekend to sit along the way. down and appreciate one of Disney’s finest. In 
While Flounder is a great sidekick, insofar as this fine weather, it’s basically like being at the crazy-cool animal friends go, Sebastian is just beach. Basically. soundtrack, exotic locales, the tops. He’s witty, cynical and makes beautiful 
Maija Gustin

hilariously memorable char-music (hello, “Kiss the Girl”) to boot. And while The views expressed in this Column are those acters and backdrop of star-one might easily see him as nothing more than a of the author and not necessarily those of The crossed love. Now that you’ve Assistant wet blanket, those with a funny bone know that Observer. finished singing “Under the Scene Editor there’s more to this crustacean than a perfect Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 

SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, April 7, 2010 
PGA 

Duval back in Augusta after three-year hiatus 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. — David Duval ambled away from the 13th tee, strolled over the Nelson Bridge and found a nice, comfortable spot to plop down in the middle of the fair­way. 
He sat there for a couple of minutes, next to his ball, star­ing across Rae’s Creek toward the woods on the other side, soaking up the brilliant colors of the azaleas and dogwoods. 
The perfect place to reflect, to think back on all he once was at Augusta National and still hopes to be. 
Hardly. Duval isn’t much for reminiscing or any of that mushy stuff. 
“It was brutal out there. They were playing soooo slow,” he grumbled Tuesday after a practice round that dragged on for nearly five hours. “I was just trying to keep from going to sleep.” 
For Duval, so much has changed since the last time he contended at the Masters, nearly a decade ago. From the expanded waistline to the errant shots to the wandering concentration, he barely resembles the guy who once ruled as golf’s No. 1 player. 
This is the first time he’s qualified for the Masters since 2006, when he shot a 10 on the second hole and missed the cut for the fourth year in a row. He’s here thanks to a runner-up finish at last year’s U.S. Open. 
Then again, so much remains the same. 
Duval still walks the course with an aura reserved for the greats, not someone who last won a tournament at the 2001 British Open, not someone who’s looks perpetually frumpy with his shirttail hanging out, not someone who comes here sandwiched between Anthony Wall and Danny Willett at No. 110 in the world rankings. 
Maybe it’s the aloof demeanor, obscured by those wraparound glasses. Maybe it’s the standoffish body language, the sense that he’s not really paying a lick of attention to the folks shouting, “Go get ‘em, David” and other encouraging words. 
There was always a mystery about Duval, and the fact that a once-brilliant game got away from him in the blink of an eye only adds to the intrigue. At nearly every hole, some patron posing as a fairway psycholo­gist offered up a possible explanation for his baffling decline, everything from depression to vertigo. 
For the record, Duval feels just fine — about his fame, too. 
“I’m comfortable, entirely comfortable, with what I’m doing right now,” he said. “I feel like I’m swinging the golf club how I want to. I feel like I’m striking the golf ball how I want to. To me, it’s a matter of performing and doing that more regularly than I may be at the moment.” 
If nothing else, Duval seems to have rekindled a sense of feistiness with the media that melted away as his scores went up and up. He now feels as though he’s put up enough good results — the 2009 U.S. Open and this year’s AT&T at Pebble Beach — to stop all those annoying questions about his slump. 
Never mind that he’s missed the cut in four of his seven PGA Tour events this year. 
“Some of this, I don’t under­stand,” he said. “I’m trying to talk about and answer ques­tions I’ve been answering for a couple of years now, and I don’t know why I need to answer them any more than I have. I have talked about it.” 
Duval might have hit rock bottom at that 2006 Masters. He opened with an 84, then started the second round with a double bogey at No. 1 and a quintuple-bogey 10 at the sec­ond, when he drove into a haz­ard on the left and took two more penalty strokes before he finally escaped. 
But that day, as bad as it was, also signified that Duval’s shotmaking skills had not total­ly abandoned him. He bounced back to make five birdies over the final 12 holes, including a 32 on the back nine. Not nearly good enough to make the cut, of course, but a start. 
Duval never doubted that he’d make it back to the Masters someday. Whether he can ever be the sort of player he once was at Augusta National remains to be seen. 
Over a four-year stretch beginning in 1998, Duval had a pair of runner-up finishes, plus a third and a sixth. He still believes those are four green jackets that got away. 
“I’d like to see him at his best again,” said Jim Furyk, who joined Duval for the practice round along with Justin Leonard. “I played a lot of golf with him back when he was the best player in the world, and he was really, really good. I guess the rest of that is: Does he really want to get back to that level again? It’s difficult to do. But I really liked what I saw today in his game.” 


Duval is convinced that he’s worked out the flaws in his swing, which were caused by injuries and waning confi­dence. But he finds it difficult to keep it together from round to round, even shot to shot. 
On Tuesday, for instance, he made a nifty little wedge shot right up next to the flag at No. 
15. Then he came back with a wild swing off the tee at the par-3 16th, his left arm flying off the club as he hit a scream­ing line drive that cleared the water but skidded right through the green. 


PGA 

Tiger’s Masters pairing perfect to avoid TV coverage 
more to do with “when” than sex scandal began to unfold the individual players, but not the Woods in the third round of the 
Associated Press 

“who.” day after Thanksgiving. only one.” Memorial, which Woods went on 
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Tiger Woods Woods is to tee off at 1:42 p.m., Joining him for two days will At any other tournament, play-to win. This will be his 13th time has an ideal tee time for his Thursday in the penultimate be Matt Kuchar, a popular figure ing with Woods could be a huge playing with Woods. return to golf at the Masters — at group for the second straight in these parts from his All-distraction because of so many “Even when all this came out least as far as TV is concerned. year. Barring any delays, his American days at Georgia Tech; photographers and reporters and the rumors of Tiger coming 
After weeks of speculation group likely will be on about the and K.J. Choi of South Korea, tagging along, and fans outside back, my friends were saying, about his playing partners for eighth hole when ESPN’s live which is sure to appeal to the ropes scrambling for a view. ‘Wouldn’t it be cool if you were the opening two rounds at coverage begins at 4 p.m. Augusta National’s broadcast Augusta National is different. paired with Tiger when he Augusta National, the starting It will be the first time Woods partners in Asia. No one is allowed inside the played his first tournament?’” times released on Tuesday had has competed since a shocking Woods is to start at 10:35 a.m. ropes, and fans walk en masse — Choi said through his interpreter 
on Friday, limiting coverage of there’s no running at the and agent, Michael Yim. him to live streaming on the Masters. “It’s funny because I sort of Masters’ Web site. “It’s going to be a lot more at had a feeling when I left Dallas 
ESPN executive vice president ease this week than most that it would be cool if I was John Wildhack said every weeks,” Woods said Monday paired with Tiger, and it hap­“meaningful shot” by Woods will before he knew of his starting pened,” he said. “It’s a good sur­be shown by the network at times. “If there’s one week that prise.” some point, whether live or as you would rather have a pairing Choi found out on the 14th hole part of highlights. with me, considering the circum-from a Masters official. 
“This is the Masters stances, it would probably be this If it didn’t sink in at the time, Tournament, and that is THE week.” there were a dozen reporters story line, and we’re here to Choi sure didn’t mind. He was waiting for him as he walked off cover the Masters Tournament,” hoping for it. the 18th green after his practice Wildhack said. “Obviously Tiger Despite some language barri-round. Choi can expect a lot and the fact this is his return to ers, they are comfortable playing more attention when he tees off golf is the story line in terms of together. Choi last played with Thursday. 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
see campus from the yard!  Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has  
WANTED  NOTICES  FOR RENT  Email alexrock@rock.com!  PERSONAL  many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love  
————————————————  needs confidential support or assis- 
SUMMER SALES INTERNSHIP  Graduation Weekend hotel rooms:  ATTN: Grad Student-faculty.  gradrentals.viewwork.com  tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at  
with an energetic start up company.  We have two rooms at the Hilton  Spacious 2-bdrm, 2.5 bath home,  ————————————————  If you or someone you care about  1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For  
Must have strong communications,  Garden Inn for ND-SMC graduation  LR, DR, FR, Florida Room.  Bed &amp; bkfast, 2 br 1 full bath;  has been sexually assaulted, we  more information, visit ND's web  
computer, and time management  weekend. Rooms are available  home  can help.  site: http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu  
skills. Benefits include flexible loca- Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The  Fenced yard, 2-car garage.  ————————————————  
tion and work schedule for 20 self- Hilton Garden Inn is ideally located  Security. Near ND.  10 min. from ND. Any time.  For more information, visit Notre  CONSIDERING ADOPTION? ND  
motivated ND students who enjoy  on SMC campus and right across  Dame's website:  ALUMS hoping to adopt. Please  
team competition. Design experi­ from ND. Rooms offered at their  262-332-0015.  Negotiable rate.  visit our website  
ence is not necessary but a plus.  face value. If interested, email  ————————————————  http.csap.nd.edu  
Send resume to  fontanaricci@mac.com  House 3 bed, 3 bath, new  Call Kay 574-229-6223.  ————————————————  http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro­ 
mmurtaghm@aol.com  rehab/clean, so close to ND you can  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  file.net.  
————————————————  ————————————————  ————————————————  ————————————————  ————————————————  ————————————————  

Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Wednesday, April 7, 2010 page 13 
Men’s Division I Baseball USA Today Poll 
team previous 
1 Arizona State 1 2 Georgia Tech 2 3 UCLA 5 4 LSU 4 5 Virginia 3 6 Texas 7 7 Louisville 8 8 Florida State 6 9 Florida 11 10 Arkansas 13 11 Clemson 10 12 TCU 12 13 Coastal Carolina 15 14 Miami 16 15 Oregon State 18 16 Oklahoma 9 17 South Carolina 19 18 Mississippi 14 19 Vanderbilt 17 20 Kansas State 21 21 UC Irvine NR 22 Arizona 20 23 Texas A&M 22 24 Southeastern La. 23 25 Alabama 23 
Women’s Division I Softball USA Today Poll 
team previous 
1 Washington 1 
2 Michigan 2 
3 Arizona 3 
4 Florida 6 
5 UCLA 5 
6 Alabama 8 
7 Missouri 4 
8 Stanford 9 
9 Arizona State 7 
10 Georgia Tech 10 
11 Oklahoma 13 
12 Oklahoma State 15 
13 California 14 
14 LSU 12 
15 Georgia 11 
16 Texas 17 
17 Tennessee 16 
18 Illinois 18 
19 Florida State 19 
20 Ohio State 21 
21 Texas A&M 20 
22 Massachusetts 23 
23 Louisville 25 
24 NOTRE DAME 24 
25 Hawaii NR 


around the dial 
MLB Baseball 
Yankees at Red Sox 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NHL Hockey 
Blues at Blackhawks 
8:30 p.m., CSN 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Duke tops Butler for school’s fourth national title 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS — Minute by minute, second by sec­ond, the NCAA title game got better and better. 
Then came the final four seconds — four ticks of the clock that produced one of the most dramatic finishes to one of the most memo­rable games college bas­ketball has ever seen. 
“I’ve been fortunate enough to be in eight national championship games, and this was a clas­sic,” said Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski, who has won four of those games. “This was the toughest and the best one.” 
Butler had two chances to win it Monday night — one on a 15-foot fadeaway, another on a desperation halfcourt shot at the buzzer. 
Both shots clanked cruel­ly off the rim. Near misses. Duke held off the upstart Bulldogs 61-59, ending the small school’s search for the perfect, Hollywood ending. 
And though the sad, tired looks on the faces of the Butler players may not have told the story, when people look back on this magical night in sports — in a day, a year, a decade or more — it will be hard to say there really was a loser. 
“We came up one posses­sion short in a game with about 145 possessions,” said Butler’s 33-year-old coach, Brad Stevens. “It’s hard to stomach when you’re on the wrong end of that.” 

Even before the game, there were signs that this could be a good one. The storylines were right. 
There was Butler, enroll­ment 4,200, the team that practices at the fieldhouse where “Hoosiers” was shot. The Bulldogs, playing six miles from campus, were on the verge of creat­ing a sequel to the movie, based on real life, in which the tiny Indiana school goes against the big boys and comes out a winner. 
There was Duke, the uber-successful team that much of America loves to 
IN BRIEF 

MLB players may file grievance against owners 
NEW YORK — Baseball players may file a collusion grievance charging owners with conspiring against free agents last winter. 
“We have concerns about the oper­ation of the post-2009 free agent market,” new union head Michael Weiner said Tuesday in a telephone interview with The Associated Press. “We have been investigating that market. Our investigation is far along but not yet complete.” 
The sides reached a standstill agreement last year giving the union additional time to decide whether to proceed with a griev­ance against teams alleging miscon­duct after the 2008 season. 
Management denies any violation of the collective bargaining agree­ment, which states clubs may not act in concert with respect to free agents. 
Former Lion Rogers must repay $6.1 million to team 
DETROIT — A judge says former Detroit Lions receiver Charles Rogers must repay $6.1 million to the team. 
Rogers was suspended for sub­stance abuse in 2005 and was released by the Lions the next year. The team has been trying to recoup two-thirds of his $9.1 million sign­ing bonus. 
U.S. District Judge Julian Abele Cook said Monday the money must be repaid. An NFL arbitrator made the same conclusion in 2008. 
Lions attorney Thomas Bruetsch (BROOTCH) declined to comment on Tuesday. Michael Cafferty, a lawyer for Rogers, says his client would like to play football in Canada and share some of his pay with Detroit. 
Rogers was the second pick in the 2003 NFL draft. In January, the for­mer Michigan State star was sen­tenced to 93 days in jail for violat­ing a court order to stay sober. 
hate — good this year, but not overwhelming, a team that made it every bit as far on grit as it did on raw talent. 
For 39 minutes, 56 sec­onds, nobody backed down. There were seven ties, 15 lead changes and, amazingly, neither team built a lead of more than six. 
Every possession was a struggle. Every point came at a price. 
Butler guards Ronald Nored and Willie Veasley made life hell on Duke’s outside players, Jon Scheyer and Nolan Smith. But Scheyer and Smith worked off picks, worked to get open, and got their shots and their points. 

Vikings’ Favre and wife 
Deanna become grandparents 
MINNEAPOLIS — The Minnesota Vikings may have finally found their quarterback of the future: Brett Favre is now a grandfather. 
His 21-year-old daughter, Brittany, has given birth to a boy — Parker Brett. The little gunslinger weighs in at 7 pounds, 7 ounces. 
Grandpa Brett says on his Web site that he and wife Deanna are “very proud” to welcome their first grand­child. 
Favre has yet to announce whether he will return to the Vikings and play a 20th season in the NFL. Last year the 40-year-old enjoyed one of his best years and helped lead the Vikings to the NFC title game. 
The baby’s arrival was first report­ed by the Minneapolis Spokesman-Recorder. 
The NFL says it knows of no other grandfathers among current play­ers. 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 7, 2010 
NFL 

McNabb looks forward to new role with ‘Skins 
Associated Press 
ASHBURN, Va. — The quar­terback holding the burgundy No. 5 Washington Redskins jer­sey was Donovan McNabb. From everything that was said, it might have been simpler to just go ahead and call him John Elway II. 
The six-time Pro Bowl star was formally introduced Tuesday at Redskins Park. All things being equal, he would rather be preparing for a 12th season with the Philadelphia Eagles, but an Easter Sunday trade between NFC East rivals has opened what he called “a new chapter in the book of Donovan.” 
“I’ve always believed in finish­ing where you started,” McNabb said. “I think there’s a lot to be said with that. Not a lot of quar­terbacks in this league are able to do that these days. Sometimes change is better. Sometimes you’re forced into change. I would have loved to (stay in Philadelphia), but it did-n’t happen.” 
Instead, he is with the Redskins and new coach Mike Shanahan, and both went to great lengths to say that trading two draft picks for a 33-year-old quarterback with a few nicks is a solid investment. They did so by repeatedly invoking Elway, who was 34 when Shanahan became coach of the Broncos in 1995. 
“I’m turning 34 this year,” McNabb said. “And he finished John’s career with two Super Bowls. Hopefully I can continue to follow behind that.” 
It makes for quick answer to the boos McNabb has heard in Philadelphia in recent years. 
“People were saying John Elway should retire,” Shanahan said, “until he won the Super Bowl.” 
Before the pursuit of such lofty goals, there were the nec­essary reflections and thank yous from McNabb to Philadelphia. Most of his words for his former team and city were upbeat and gracious — “I felt I was treated fair” — with maybe a slight dig or two thrown in. 
Surprisingly, McNabb said he has spoken “not much” about the trade with Andy Reid, his coach for his entire tenure with the Eagles. He portrayed himself as fallout from a Philadelphia youth movement. 
“They’re rebuilding, and they’re going young,” McNabb said. “So I never knew 33 years old was old, but I guess I’m too old.” 
And, while Shanahan’s offense will have its similarities to Reid’s, McNabb cited what he thinks will be one substantial difference. 
“It starts with the run game,” McNabb said. “I know probably a lot of you come from Philly don’t know much about that run game. But we will run the ball here.” 
And, when asked if the rug had been pulled out from under him in Philly, McNabb said: “It did.” 
“We had two young guys on the outside, a very effective tight end, a young running back, (Brian) Westbrook was coming off an injury, the offensive line was trying to jell, we were mix­ing guys in, and some guys were hurt,” McNabb said. “But they moved in another direction. There’s nothing I can do on that particular point.” 
McNabb said he expects “hopefully cheers” when he returns to the Philadelphia with the Redskins next season, yet he refused to portray it a special date on his mental calendar. 
“I don’t look at it any different than playing the Giants or Dallas,” McNabb said. “Nothing like I’m going to run my head through a locker or start throw­ing stuff through my house. It’s an opportunity for us to play another team.” 
McNabb was clearly relieved to have constant trade specula­tion behind him — “I’m just so happy that it’s over” — and that he ended up with a team among those at the top of his wish list. 
His agent, Fletcher Smith, said he and McNabb didn’t end up having to object to an undesir­able destination. 
“He and Andy have a special relationship, and he did right by Donovan at the end of the day,” Smith said. “There wasn’t a time when we had to tell a team we weren’t going to come.” 
The next priority is a contract extension for McNabb, whose current deal expires at the end of the upcoming season. McNabb and Shanahan both said the quarterback has a lot left in the tank — again citing Elway as an example — but the coach wouldn’t rule out taking a quarterback with the No. 4 overall pick in this month’s draft. Given the woeful state of the offensive line, however, it would seem the Redskins would now want to target a player to protect McNabb’s blind side. 
Another bit of housekeeping for McNabb was a talk with his good friend Jason Campbell, the Redskins’ starter for the last 3½ seasons. Shanahan said the Redskins have given Campbell permission to explore a trade up to the April 22-24 draft. 
“I let him know that this was­n’t one of my plans, to try to come and take his spot,” McNabb said. “I told him ‘The sky’s the limit for you. Continue to hold your head high.’” 
McNabb immediately began taking part in the team’s offsea­son conditioning program, but said he’ll also take some weeks off to deal with the logistics of moving. He’s less than two weeks away from his first Redskins minicamp. 
“It feels like being drafted again,” McNabb said. “You been selected by a new team. You’re going through all the emotions of learning new plays, being with the guys, working out, so it feels like I’m about 22 again.” 
He laughed and added: “The body may not respond that way.” 


NBA 

Raptors lose game to Cavs, Bosh to injury 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND — Flattened by an inadvertent elbow to the face, Toronto All-Star forward Chris Bosh was sent to the hospital for tests Tuesday night as the Raptors’ playoff hopes took a blow with a 113­101 loss to the Cleveland Cavaliers, who have won 11 straight at home. 
Bosh was accidentally struck by Cleveland’s Antawn Jamison in the first three min­utes. Bosh, who had blood dripping from his nose and mouth area as he was assisted from the floor, was taken to the Cleveland Clinic for a CT scan and further treatment and evaluation. 
The Raptors had no immedi­ate update on his condition. 
Jamison scored 20 points — 12 in the third when the Cavs opened a double-digit lead — and Anthony Parker had a season-high 18. 
LeBron James scored 19 with 13 assists and Mo Williams had 14 and 12 assists for Cleveland, which has wrapped up the NBA’s best record and home-court advantage throughout the playoffs and is expected to rest players in the next few games to get ready for the postseason. 
Jarrett Jack scored 23 for the Raptors, who also lost for­ward Antoine Wright in the third quarter with an ankle injury. 
Bosh’s injury couldn’t have come at a worse time for the Raptors, who entered the night clinging to the No. 8 playoff spot in the Eastern Conference. Toronto has a tough week ahead with games against Boston, Atlanta and the Chicago Bulls, who went into Tuesday one game behind the Raptors in the standings. 
Bosh was fighting for posi­tion in the lane with Jamison when he was nailed by the elbow. Bosh immediately dropped to the floor and stayed there as play continued at the other end. Dazed by the blow, Bosh got to his knees as blood poured onto the court. 
When there was finally a whistle, medical personnel from both teams went onto the floor to attend to Bosh, who was in obvious pain. Holding a towel to his face, he was helped from the court and taken to Cleveland’s locker room, where he was examined by Cavs team physician Dr. Richard Parker. 


Wednesday, April 7, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles look to remain unbeaten in conference 
By MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
After defeating Alma and Trine, two of the weaker teams in the conference, Saint Mary’s will face Calvin, its first formi­dable opponent in MIAA play, at home today. 
In order to place well in the conference tournament, the Belles (8-3, 2-0) need to win matches against top teams like the Knights. 
“This match could have an impact on seeding for our con­ference tournament,” Belles coach Dale Campbell said. 
“Calvin is a very strong team, so it will be good to see where we stack up with them.” 
Campbell has seen steady improvement this season, something that every coach loves to see in his players. 
“Our growth has been sub­stantial,” Campbell said. “We are a more mature team than we were last year. We think more between points and on changeovers and seem to adjust our styles of play better than last year.” 
Early on, the focus was on doubles play, attacking the net and shot-making. Now, the Belles are just trying to iron out the kinks as they head into the heart of their MIAA sched­ule. 
“Our focus has not been on one particular area,” Campbell said. “We are trying to improve all aspects of our game.” 
The Belles have a definitive strategy every time they step on the court. When they adhere to the plan, the result is usually in their favor, Campbell said. 
“We need to continue to move forward in doubles and attack the ball,” he said. “In singles, we need to play an offensive, yet high-percentage strategy to prepare for our toughest opponents.” 
Those tough opponents are on the way, and Calvin is the first in a string of challenging competition. Getting out of this match with a victory could be a solid starting point for the Belles. 
“We have a tough stretch in the schedule right now,” Campbell said. “Hopefully, we can do well here, while also improving ahead of the confer­ence tournament.” 
Junior Jillian Hurley has yet to lose in singles play this sea­son, and she has won 10 straight doubles matches with her partner, junior Mary Therese Lee. 
Campbell is confident in the Belles’ chances of pulling out a crucial victory today. He said he expects it “to be close, yet for us to pull through in the end.” 
As competitors, the Belles look forward to this type of challenge, and Campbell expects the best out of the players. 
“We play for this type of competition,” Campbell said. “This is where we want to be.” 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 


NHL 

Brodeur wins 600th in shutout of Thrashers 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA — Martin Brodeur got his 600th career win with his second straight shutout and the New Jersey Devils beat the Thrashers 3-0 on Tuesday night in Ilya Kovalchuk’s return to Atlanta. 
Kovalchuk, the former Thrashers captain who was trad­ed to the Devils two months ago, didn’t score but returned to see the Thrashers eliminated from playoff contention for the ninth time in their 10-year history. 
Dean McAmmond, Zach Parise and Travis Zajac scored and Brodeur stopped 19 shots. 
The Devils began the night tied with Pittsburgh for first place in the Atlantic Division and second place in the Eastern Conference, taking over that spot when the Penguins lost to Washington. 
The shutout was Brodeur’s league-leading ninth of the sea­son and the 110th of his career. Brodeur and the Devils beat Carolina 4-0 on Saturday. 
The 37-year-old Brodeur improved to 10-2-2 against Atlanta. He was pulled after allowing three goals in the first period in Atlanta on Dec. 19, but the Devils still beat the Thrashers 5-4. 
McAmmond scored on a pass from Dainius Zubrus in the first period, and the Devils padded the lead with goals in the opening minute of each of the next two periods. Parise pushed the puck past Johan Hedberg 51 seconds into the second period, and Zajac scored 10 seconds into the third. 
Hedberg stopped 24 shots. 
Kovalchuk made his first return to Atlanta since a Feb. 4 trade that sent forward Niclas Bergfors and defenseman Johnny Oduya to the Thrashers. Atlanta general manager Don Waddell said he made the trade after Kovalchuk turned down contract extension offers of 12 years for $101 million and seven years for $70 million. 
Kovalchuk will become a free agent after this season. 


page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday April 7, 2010 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish win one, drop one in Texas matches 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The No. 36 Irish split the two matches they played in Texas over Easter break, defeating SMU, 5-2, before falling to No. 12 Texas A&M, 6-1. 
“We played a pretty complete match against SMU on Saturday,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “They have a great stadium, but the courts were pretty quick and I thought our guys did a good job of adjusting to them. ” 
The Irish started off the week­end with a victory over SMU, led by winning two out of the three doubles matches to claim the doubles point. 
Singles wins by juniors Stephen Havens and Dan Stahl, sophomore Sam Keeton and freshman Blas Moros impressed Bayliss. 
“Stephen played aggressively and got in to the net to finish points against a guy who could be troublesome. Dan handled pace well and was able to stay on the offensive, which was important there,” Bayliss said. “Sam did a good job of changing things up and getting out of trouble. Blas had to really fight and won a long tiebreaker after falling behind early.” 
Sophomore Casey Watt and junior David Anderson were the only two Irish players to drop a match, as they lost close match­es at No. 1 and No. 3 singles, respectively. 

In the second match of the weekend the Irish lost to Texas A&M. Moros secured the only win for the Irish on the day. 
The Irish fell behind early and were not able to recover after dropping the doubles point. 
“Blas Moros played more aggressively [Sunday night] against A&M,” Bayliss said. “He stayed up tight on the baseline and played a very gritty match. ” 
The Irish will attempt to regain their momentum at home today, facing No. 2 Ohio State at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
“We know Ohio State well,” Bayliss said. “Despite their rank­ing we feel that this will be a close match.” 
“They are very well coached and play great doubles, with lots of wrinkles in their formations, so we will need to be at our best there. Several of our guys have really begun to come into their own, so this is a challenge we readily embrace.” 
The Irish will look to pull off the upset and play strong at doubles against Ohio State. First serve is set for 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba01@saintmarys.edu 
TRACK & FIELD 

Four athletes win at Purdue 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Instead of going home for Easter, the Irish traveled to Purdue to the Mike Poehlein Invitational. Despite rain and lightning days throughout the weekend, four athletes took first place and 23 athletes fin­ished in the top-five at the event. 
The winning times and dis­tances came from senior Eric Quick in the men’s triple jump with a distance of 15.12 meters, junior Theresa Cattuna in the women’s 5,000 meter with a time of 17:11.11, senior Joanna Schultz in the women’s 400 at 
54.10 and sophomore John Shawel in the men’s 800 at 1:53.11. 
Shawel in particular was happy with his performance, 
considering his focus usually centers around the 1500. 
“I basically had nothing to lose. I got involved early in the race and I raced less conservatively than I normally would,” Shawel said. 
C a t t u n a ’s qualified her for the Big East meet. 
“I am looking forward to a couple more races before Big East to improve my kick and Sophomore Allison Schroeder took second and junior Natalie Johnson took fifth in the 800, and sophomores Susanna Sullivan and Molly Hirt took 
build on today,” Cattuna said. 
In addition to these top finish­es, the Irish earned multiple successful results across the board. 
In field events, the Irish had a huge turnout for men’s hammer, where junior Greg Davis took third, closely fol­lowed by junior John Belcher and 
sophomore Mitchell Gormley in fourth and fifth, respectively. Freshman Kendra Jennings took fourth in the women’s high 
“I am looking forward to a couple more races before Big East to improve my kick and build on today.” 
Theresa Cattuna Irish junior 
jump, sopho­more Doug Onuscheck took third in the men’s high jump and senior Jaclyn Espinoza took fourth in the women’s dis­cus. 
Freshman Nevada Sorenson took second and jun­ior Kali Watkins 
time not only marked a new took third in the 100 hurdles, personal record for that dis-sophomore Sasha Blanchard tance on a track, but it also took fifth in the 400 hurdles. 

“I basically had nothing to lose. I got involved early in the race and I raced less conservatively than I normally would.” 
John Shawel Irish sophomore 
third and fifth, respectively, in the 5,000. 
The men also had a series of top finishes. Junior Matthew Brown took third in the 400 hurdles, junior Edward Hitchler took fifth in the 400, sopho­more Mitch 
Lorenz took fourth in the 800, junior Greg Kiley took fourth in the 1,500 and senior Thomas Noel took fourth in the 3,000 Steeplechase. 
Cattuna summed up the goals for the future for both herself and the team as a whole. 
“Over the next couple of weeks I’ll work on becoming more mentally and physically ready to compete with [other runners] in the race and hope­fully earn some points for our team,” Cattuna said. 
The Irish next travel to Louisville, Ky., to compete in the Louisville Invitational on Saturday. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 


Wednesday, April 7, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Knights 
continued from page 20 
only giving up two hits. 
Valdivia also had plenty of offensive help. The Irish scored eight runs off of 12 hits. Six of those runs came in the final inning to seal the 


deal for Notre Dame. 
“It was a total team effort,” said Wright, “We all contributed in one way or another to the win.” 
The Irish’s second win was a little harder to come by, however. The back half of the double­

“We need to stay consistent. We can’t take anybody for granted. We need to go out there and play our game.” 
Kristina Wright Irish catcher 
header was stopped three times due to the weather, and the game was not com­pleted until two days later. 
Despite the inconvenience, Wright said that the game was a blessing in disguise for the Irish. 
“It showed us that our team can work through adversity,” Wright said. 
Valdivia was on the mound again for Notre Dame on Monday, pitching another scoreless outing while giving up six hits. Once again, she also had plenty of offensive help. Four of the Irish’s five hits were homeruns. 

The complete game shutout was the 10th of the season for Valdivia, who improved to 20-3 on the year. The jun­ior has won 14 straight Big East contests over the past two seasons, and in her 
career in 15­0 in the con­ference with a 1.34 ERA. 
Notre Dame will look to con­tinue its hot streak as the Irish look forward to their double­header with Bowling Green (6-12) today. Despite the 

Falcons’ lowly record, Wright emphasized the team’s continued need for focus. 
“We need to stay consis­tent,” Wright said, “We can’t take anybody for granted. We need to go out there and play our game.” 
Today’s contests will take place at 4 and 6 p.m. at Melissa Cook Stadium. 
Contact Bobby Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 
Bats 
continued from page 20 
we still have to shore up our defense. Our guys have been working really hard on their approaches, extra hitting. It’s pay­ing off for them.” 
The Irish bats came alive in the third inning against Oakland starter Aaron Wick, as senior des­ignated hitter David Mills followed DeSico’s home run with a triple to right-center. Senior first basemen Casey Martin knocked in Mills with a sacrifice fly, and center fielder Bill Warrender followed with a walk. Senior right fielder Brayden Ashdown capped the Irish rally by clearing the bases with his first home run of the sea­son. 
The biggest surprise of the game came from Irish starting pitcher Adam Norton (1-0), the regular starting third baseman. In his first start in an Irish uniform, the freshman tossed four innings, racking up six strikeouts and allowing only two earned runs. 
“I thought the biggest thing about our pitchers was that we didn’t walk anybody,” Schrage said. “One of the things we’ve been hammering home is [not] giving up free bases. When you do that, you’ll win a lot of games.” 
The Golden Grizzlies mounted a comeback in the top of the sev­enth, plating two runs on a series of Irish miscues in the field. Senior reliever Steve Mazur entered the game with two outs and the tying run at the plate, but he induced a ground ball out to hold the Irish lead at 8-5. 
Notre Dame added some insur­ance in the bottom half of the inning, as the first three batters reached to load the bases with nobody out. Junior David Casey entered as a pinch hitter and knocked in a run following an error in the field, and Mills cleared the bases later in the inning with his second triple of the afternoon to finish with four RBIs. 
“That was big,” Schrage said. “I thought David Casey just battling and putting the ball in play, that kind of opened the floodgates and we were able to score five and bounce back. We showed some resilience, and we need more of that.” 
The Irish look to mount their first winning streak of the season since the season-opening series when they take on struggling Western Michigan (5-21) tonight before Big East play resumes. 
“Every win is an important win for us,” Schrage said. “We need to get on a roll, we need to get on a winning streak. I think tomorrow is one of the biggest games we’re going to play this season. We can’t be win, lose, win, lose, which is what we’ve been doing. Tomorrow I’m going to be really excited to see if we come out and play and get after it.” 
First pitch is at 5:05 p.m. at Frank Eck Stadium. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles dominate Hornets in sweep 
By KEVIN BALDWIN and 
TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writers 
Saint Mary’s stormed out to a 30-6 win in five innings at Kalamazoo on Saturday and dom­inated 23-5 in Game 2, which was delayed until Tuesday due to inclement weather on Saturday. 
The Belles never looked back during Game 1 as they blasted 20 hits off the Hornets pitching staff. This offensive explosion propelled the Belles to their first MIAA vic­tory of the season. 
Saint Mary’s actually trailed after the first inning, 2-1, in its rout of Kalamazoo. In the next two innings, the Belles scored nine and 14 runs, respectively. This put the game out of reach for the winless Hornets. 
Junior Hayley Bojorquez had a phenomenal game as she belted a grand slam in the fourth inning. The marked her seventh homer of the season which ties the St. Mary’s school record. This marked the end of a stellar week for Bojorquez, as she was named the MIAA Position Player of the Week. 
“Hayley has been so consistent all year long, every time she goes up to the plate she just has the mindset that she’s going to get a hit,” Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. “She’s a great leader, the only junior on the team, getting ready to be the only senior and leading by example.” 
Sophomore Kate Mitchell came up big at the plate, going 6 for 6 and showing a great deal of improvement over previous games. 
“We absolutely needed her to hit and we just kept putting her out there,” Sullivan said. “She’s batting 1.000 in conference. She looks like a completely different hitter, very confident.” 
The Belles repeated their per­formance in the second game as they easily handed the Hornets a second loss. Saint Mary’s record­ed 14 hits and scored 17 runs in the first two innings. This allowed the Belles to gain an early advan­tage and never look back. 
With the success the Belles had against Kalamazoo, the Belles have snapped a four game skid. They hope to continue that suc­cess as they travel to Albion today. 
Saint Mary’s now enters a stretch of MIAA action and looks to keep its success rolling. Albion will prove a formidable opponent. The Britons’ record does not speak for the danger that they pose for the Belles. Saint Mary’s will need to not become overly confident after two blowout wins. 
“It’s a great start, it’s always good to be 2-0 and its helpful for our hitters to keep getting at bats but every team is so different,” Sullivan said. “[The Britons] are hungry for a win… they can’t be underestimated.” 
The Belles will travel to Albion today with first pitch set for 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwi2@nd.edu and Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 7, 2010 
Villanova victory. Though Irish coach Kevin 
Wildcats 
continued from page 20 
scores in the first three minutes of the second quarter to take a 4­1 lead, its largest of the game. The Irish scored just once in the second quarter and headed into the intermission trailing 4-2. 
The defensive character of the game continued after halftime, with nearly 10 scoreless minutes passing before freshman mid­fielder Steve Murphy cut the Villanova lead to just one. The Wildcats responded quickly, how­ever, and took a 5-3 lead into the fourth quarter. 
Despite the dominance of both defenses in the first three quar­ters, the offenses would steal the show in the final period and pro­vide a thrilling end to the game. Notre Dame reeled off five con­secutive goals to open the fourth quarter, including a highlight-reel score from senior defenseman Mike Creighton, who intercepted a pass when the Irish were a man down and took the ball the length of the field to score. 
At the end of the Notre Dame run, the Irish held an 8-5 lead halfway through the final period, but Villanova had an offensive explosion of its own in store. The Wildcats scored just 14 seconds after the Irish took their biggest lead and then added another 30 seconds later to cut the Notre Dame advantage to one. Villanova’s Paul Webber then scored with 5:07 left to tie the game and then added the deci­sive goal with 2:10 to play. Though the Irish peppered the Wildcats goal with shots in the final seconds, goalie Billy Hurley turned them away to seal the Corrigan was pleased with his team’s overall play, he was con­cerned about the lack of play-making. 
“We actually played better against Villanova. You know, we just didn’t make enough plays,” Corrigan said. “It’s been an inter­esting year — we’ve been so close in all of our losses, but the combination of playing well and making plays is something we have to do.” 
Junior midfielder Zach Brenneman led the Irish with two goals and two assists, while sen­ior attack Neal Hicks notched a goal and three assists. Freshman goalkeeper John Kemp made his first career start in the loss and made 10 saves. 
“I think [Kemp] played very well. We didn’t play as well I’d hope in front of him,” Corrigan said. “I have great confidence in John, and I know we’re going to win a lot of lacrosse games with him in the goal.” 
Going into the homestretch of the season, Corrigan hopes his team will find the consistency in avoiding errors it has been searching for throughout the campaign. 
“It’s as simple as this: We’ve got to stop giving away goals at the defensive end and wasting oppor­tunities on the offensive end,” Corrigan said. “We’ve got to play smarter consistently.” 
The Irish look to snap their two-game losing streak and find their first Big East victory when Georgetown visits Arlotta Stadium on Sunday in a clash tel­evised on ESPNU. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


Split 
continued from page 20 
we were able to pull through.” 
In singles play, each Irish play­er lost their competition in two sets, with the exception of second singles player sophomore Shannon Mathews, whose three set loss was decided in a tiebreaker. The 16-2 Bears hand­ed the Irish their third loss of the season. 
“I hope we play them in the NCAAs so I can try to redeem myself,” Frilling said. 
Monday, the tables turned for Notre Dame with its 4-3 victory over Texas A&M, where the first doubles team of Frilling and Krisik received their 15th consec­utive win. 
The Irish got off to a strong start as each of the three doubles team won their matches and Notre Dame received the first point of the day. 
“We came out really deter­mined since we lost the day before,” Frilling said. “We really wanted to prove ourselves.” 
Texas A&M boasts a large fan base with more viewers than the women are used to, which proved to be a challenging aspect of play­ing in College Station, Texas. 
“They had loud fans who really tried to get in our heads,” Frilling said. “They were vocal and intense. 
Krisik finished first in singles play for the Irish as she shut out her opponent in the sixth singles position in two sets for Notre Dame’s second point. Though the Aggies claimed the next point after Rafael fell in the fifth singles spot, the next singles victories from Frilling in first singles and Cosmina Ciobanu in fourth sin­gles clinched the win for the Irish. 
“We want to work on our sin­gles play a lot more,” Frilling said. “Doubles is only one point, so we need to work on our sin­gles.” 
The Irish will prepare in prac­tice this week to take on South Florida for their first outdoor home match of the season on Friday. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 


Coyne 
continued from page 20 
Coyne said. “We played great defense at the end of the game. We had great passing too. [Senior Gina Scioscia] has excellent field vision and she found Ansley, who stayed composed and put two moves on the goalie and nailed her shot.” 
As the Irish head into a three-game homestand, Coyne said the Irish will continue to improve after getting through a grueling road portion of their schedule. 
“We certainly wanted to be in a different place than being 6-4,” Coyne said. “But we’re totally looking forward. We have no bad losses on our schedule, as we lost to top-10 teams. We’ve had disappoint­ing close losses, but it’s helped us out in close games like the Loyola game and we’ll continue to focus on making the Big East tournament and achieving our goals.” 
The Irish will get back on the field at Arlotta Stadium against Villanova at 4:30 p.m. on Friday. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen2@nd.edu 

Wednesday, April 7, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Wednesday, April 7, 2010 page 20 
BASEBALL 

Back to basics 
Notre Dame returns to fundamentals in win 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Taking a break from a rigorous schedule can be the best thing for a struggling team. With the Irish coming off a 1-5 run against Big East foes South Florida and Georgetown, Oakland provided that relief, as Notre Dame took full advantage of the non-confer­ence matchup to get back to the fundamentals. 
Notre Dame (10-17, 1-5) pounded out 12 hits against the Golden Grizzlies (5-15) en route to a convincing 13-6 victory. The Irish were paced at the plate by freshman second basemen Frank DeSico, who went 4 for 4, includ­ing a towering solo home run in the third inning to bring the Irish even at the time. 

“I thought we really started swinging the bats in Georgetown,” Schrage said, “So hopefully that will continue, and VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer 
Freshman pitcher Adam Norton delivers during Notre Dame’s 13-6 win over Oakland on see BATS/page 17 Tuesday. Norton, making his first career start, gave up just two runs in six innings of work. 

MEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish fall to Big East foe Villanova 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a close home loss to Rutgers in the program’s first-ever Big East contest, No. 15 Notre Dame was left still search­ing for its first conference win after a heartbreaking 9-8 loss at No. 13 Villanova on Saturday. 
The game was low scoring through the first three quarters before a furious fourth quarter in which the outcome was in doubt until the final whistle sounded. 
The Irish (5-4, 0-2) got on the board first with a goal two min­utes into the first quarter at Villanova Stadium on a tally from senior midfielder Grant Krebs, but the Wildcats (6-3, 1-1) responded with a goal nine min­utes later, and added a second five seconds before the end of the period. 
Villanova piled on two more 
see WILDCATS/page 18 


WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Team splits pair of close contests at Georgetown, Loyola 
By CHRIS ALLEN Sports Writer  runs by both teams, as the Irish (6-4) rallied from a 6-1 deficit in the first half, scoring  won 18 of 24 draw controls in the contest, which gave the Hoyas a decided edge.  against the Hoyas. Coyne was happy with her team’s effort on the road against a ranked  tion with the score tied 10-10 ag ain s t th e No . 1 3 G rey ho u n d s ( 8 -4) . J u n i or  
five of the final six goals of the  “The draw controls against  opponent.  Ansley Stewart scored  a  goal  
The No. 15 Irish recorded  period to close the deficit to 7­ Georgetown  were  horrible,”  “It is traditionally this kind  with six seconds left in the  
plenty of experience in close  6.  Irish coach Tracy Coyne said.  of game against Georgetown,”  game to give the Irish the 11­ 
e nd-g am e  s i t ua t i on s  ov e r  The teams traded goals in  “We’ve struggled with that,  Coyne said. “They had great  10 victory. Coyne had nothing  
Easter weekend as they split a  the second half, but after jun- and the girls know that. We  looks and converted them. We  b ut  p ra i s e  for  h e r  t e am ’s  
pair of games, losing to No. 14  ior Kailene Abt’s fourth goal  worked  on  it  on  Sunday, and  had two yellow cards and that  effort.  
Geo r geto wn ,  12-10,  an d  of the game tied it 10-10 with  there  was  a  huge improve-can always hurt you in games  “ Pla y in g  two  na t i on al l y  
pulling out  a  last-second vic­ 11:27 left to play, Georgetown  m e nt  i n  th e  seco nd  ha l f  like this. Overall, I think it  ranked programs on the road,  
tory  over  No. 13 Loyola, 11­ ne t t e d  two  go al s  ov e r  th e  against Loyola.”  was  a  well-played game  on  back-to-back, in the heat, this  
10.  remaining minutes to pull out  While the Irish struggled  both sides.”  was  a  huge weekend for us,”  
Th e  g am e  ag ain s t  the close victory. Georgetown  with draw controls, they low- The Irish found themselves  
Ge o r get o wn ( 5-5) featu red  outshot the Irish 32-21 and  ered their  turnovers  to  six  yet again in a late-game situa­ see COYNE/page 18  

ND SOFTBALL 

Bats fuel routs of Rutgers 
By BOBBY GRAHAM 
Sports Writer 
Sophomore catcher Kristina Wright said one of the great­est strengths of this year’s Irish team is their ability to overcome adversity. 
Accordingly, the squad was able to bounce back from a disappointing loss against Loyola Chicago and snag back-to-back 8-0 wins against conference foe Rutgers. The wins keep the Irish (27-6, 5-0) undefeated in Big East play, which is “a major team goal,” Wright said. 
The team’s first win came with junior Jody Valdivia at the mound. Valdivia pitched six scoreless innings while 
see KNIGHTS/page 18 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Squad falls to Bears, defeats Texas A&M 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 

The No. 6 Irish won their 13th consecutive doubles point but split two matches over the long weekend, winning 4-3 over Texas A&M and losing 6-1 to No. 2 Baylor. 
“They were tough matches with tough conditions for both of them,” sophomore Kristy Frilling said. “To summarize both of them, I think overall as a team we played really well.” 
Saturday, the Irish fell to the Bears despite winning the first point of the game. 
“Baylor is always tough because they have all talented players,” Frilling said. “When we played them we expect a tough match from them every year.” 
After falling in the second doubles competition, third dou­bles players freshman Chrissie McGaffigan and junior Kristen Rafael won their match 8-5 to put the Irish back in a position to win the doubles point. The No. 4 nationally ranked doubles team of Frilling and senior Kali Krisik decided the highly sought after doubles point in favor of the Irish as they beat their No. 12 Baylor opponents, 8-6. 
“[Krisik] and I had a really tough match,” Frilling said. “We lost to them a few times last season, and we’re all really glad 
see SPLIT/page 18 






