the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


University family mourns Declan Sullivan 
Athletic director speaks on moments leading up to student’s death 

By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
Director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick entered the foot­ball practice field at about 
4:47 p.m. Wednesday, and witnessed two completed passes. He said practice seemed normal, until he felt a powerful gust of wind, and saw objects that had former­ly been stationary fly past him. 
“It was an unremarkable journey in the sense that practice was normal and plays were being conducted with no difficulty,” he said. 
Shortly after, Swarbrick felt the wind speed up and heard a crash. 
He described the minutes preceding Declan Sullivan’s death from his perspective in a press conference Thursday, where he told reporters the University is launching a full investigation into the video tower accident that caused the Notre Dame junior’s death. 
Swarbrick declined to answer questions about the possible effect of the day’s weather conditions on the accident until the investiga­tion is completed. Winds reportedly reached 50 miles per hour when Sullivan, who was videotaping the football practice for the University, was on the scissor lift that collapsed. 
“There is a lot to learn here, and we will learn it all,” he said. “I know there’s 
see SWARBRICK/page 3 





Family, friends, students gather for Mass of Remembrance 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL and 
SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editors 
Everyone had his or her own way of honoring Declan Sullivan. 
The men of Fisher Hall were united by wearing lime green dorm sunglasses. Each Lewis Hall resident carried a yellow flower. Students who could not fit inside the Basilica of the Sacred Heart stood outside, holding candles from the Grotto that flickered gently amongst the crowd. 
But when it came time for the sign of peace, dorm mates, friends and people who had never met Sullivan crossed aisles to hug each other in a powerful example of the homily’s mes­sage: We are loved, and we are not alone. 
Around 1,000 people attended Thursday’s Mass held in honor of Sullivan, the Notre Dame jun­ior who died in an accident Wednesday. More than 1,000 others gathered outside and about 500 watched the Mass live in the LaFortune Student Center. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins presided over the Mass and Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Tom Doyle delivered the homily to the standing room only congregation, which includ­ed Sullivan’s family and the entire football team. 
The Mass’s scripture readings, the memory of Sullivan and the support of the Notre Dame com­munity serve as reminders of love and connection, Doyle said in his homily. 
“Tonight’s stories and the story 
see MASS/page 4 



Donnelly defends seat against Republican challenger 
2nd Congressional District. Donnelly, who has held the been able to focus on the to do in Congress, what is best 
By SAM STRYKER 

The Nov. 2 election, in which congressional seat since 2006, issues that are important.” for the country.” 
News Writer 

Republican told The Observer he is Donnelly is a 1977 Notre Donnelly said not only has Jackie 
pleased with the progress of Dame graduate and 1981 the University been an impor­Editor’s Note: This is the Walorski is 
his 2010 campaign due to its Notre Dame law school gradu-tant influence on his political final installment in a two-part challenging 
focus on economic and ate. He said his college educa-duties, but Notre Dame repre­series featuring two candi-Donnelly, is 
employment issues. tion gave him a strong sense sents a political partner of dates vying to represent one of sev­
“I have tried to talk about of values and influenced his sorts, both now and for the Indiana’s 2nd Congressional eral crucial 
the issues in our district, the congressional duties. future. District. races 
primary issue being jobs, how “When you leave Notre “I’ve been blessed with the across the 
we create more jobs, and how Dame, Notre Dame gives you number of Notre Dame stu-
U.S. Rep. Joe Donnelly said c o u n t r y 

we bring more jobs to our the values you need to try a do dents who work in my office. the economy and employment that will region, and how we make the a good job,” he said. “You We have had a number of are among the most important determine American economy stronger,” have the motto of ‘God, interns throughout the year issues in the race for the con-the political balance in he said. “The campaign has Country, Notre Dame.’ That is gressional seat in Indiana’s Congress. gone well because we have the cornerstone of what we try see DONNELLY/page 5 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Community, Observer staff members share memories of Declan pages 13-16  Football team to honor Sullivan page 28 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: W ICH VILLAIN WOULD YOU LIKE TO SEE IN T E NEW BATMAN MOVIE?
THE OBSERVER 







P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Molly Madden Molly Sammon Megan Doyle Chris Allen Caitlin Housley Katie Heit 

Graphics Scene 
Blair Chemidlin Jordan Gamble Photo Jess Shaffer Suzanna Pratt Shane Steinberg 



OFFBEAT 

Guiness world record holding snake dies 
COLUMBUS, Ohio— An Ohio zoo said the longest snake living in captivity has died. The Columbus Zoo and Aquarium said workers found the 24-foot python Wednesday morn­ing dead from an apparent tumor. The snake, named Fluffy, held the Guinness World Record as the longest snake living in captivity. It was about as long as a moving van and as thick as a telephone pole. It weighed 300 pounds. 
The 18-year-old reticu­lated python had drawn large crowds since the zoo got it in 2007. 
Reticulated pythons are 
Marcos  Dominique Higgins  Jumi Cadmus  Netania Boentaram  Rayven Moore  Aaron Grinsteinner  
Marugan-Wyatt  freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  
sophomore  Lewis  McGlinn  McGlinn  Morrissey  Keough  
Morrissey  

“Sarah Palin as “Mr. Freeze by “The Penguin “Me. I can take “The Joker 
“Megan Fox as 

Catwoman.” Arnold by Jack Black.” Christian Bale returns by Jack
Poison Ivy but 

Schwarzenegger. any day.” Nicholson.” 
no thumbs.” 

He’s back. 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

named for the cross-hatch­ing patterns on their skin and average 10 to 20 feet long. The largest recorded one was 32 feet, 9 1/2 inches long when it was killed in 1912 in Indonesia. 
State threatens to shut down pumpkin stand 
LEWISTON, Idaho — An Idaho family is out of its gourds thanks to publicity about a tax agency threat­ening to close their pump­kin stand for lack of a state permit. 
Kami Charais tells the Lewiston Tribune they made three times as much money as expected, bringing in $600 to pay for wrestling and dance lessons for their children, 6-year-old Jacob and 4­year-old Sami-Lou. 
She figures they’ll pay $36 in sales tax to the state. 
The kids sold the squash from their porch, splitting the profits with the grow­er. Some people made donations and others drove from as far away as Spokane, Wash., to grab a gourd. 
A representative of the Idaho State Tax Commission has said the stop was meant to inform the family that they need­ed permits and to pay the state’s 6 percent sales tax. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
Cavanaugh, Pasquerilla East and Walsh Halls will sponsor International Horror Movie Fest in Lafortune Student Center tonight . The movies, “M” and “The Ring,” will start at 7 p.m. in Montgomery Auditorium. The event is free and open to students. 
The Sean Curran Dance Company will perform tonight at 8 p.m . in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Cost is $15 dollars for students and $30 regular. 
The Student Union Board will sponsor comedian Maz Jobrani tonight at 9 p.m. The event will take place in Washinton Hall. 
The College of Science will host two lectures as part of the Saturday Science Exploration Series. Biology professor David Hyde will discuss “The Vision of Restoring Sight with Adult Stem Cells” in room 101 of the Jordan Hall of Science, and physics professor Randal Ruchti will discuss “The Breadth of Physics Outreach” in room 105. The lectures will begin at 11 a.m. 
The College of Arts and Lectures will sponsor the Saturday Scholars Series this Saturday at noon. Margot Fassler of the Department of Theology will deliver the lecture “Tradition and Identity in Contemporary Church Music: Three Case Studies. ” The lecture will take place in the Snite Museum’s Annenberg Auditorium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight game day sunday monday tuesday 



CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 


52 48 HIGH 6059 5652
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


48 36 LOW 3738 3431 






said. 
Sullivan ’s parents and 




Swarbrick 


continued from page 1 
a lot of speculation about what may or may not have happened, but that’s what the investigation is for.” 
Swarbrick also declined to comment on which channels of authority authorized an 
outdoor prac­tice and who was responsi­ble for clear­ing the videog­raphers to tape practice 
f r o m  t h e  
tower.  
“It’s not  one  

decision. There are multiple deci­sions made, ” he said. “It ’s not a decision to go outside. It ’s a host of decisions rele­vant to ‘Do you go outside?’” 
The Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) and a con ­tracted acci ­dent recon ­struction team are investigat­ing the acci ­dent. The Indiana Occupational 
west field of Practice Complex, he said he saw items like tow­els and Gatorade con­tainers fly by him. Officials estimate the tower fell about 4:51 p.m., he said. 
“I noticed the netting on the goal posts start to bend dra ­matically and heard a crash,” Swarbrick said. “At first, I couldn’t ori­ent the loca ­tion of the crash.” 
Emergency personnel responded younger brother came to campus Wednesday evening. His sister is a freshman at the University. Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Tom Doyle spent the evening with the family. 
During the press confer­ence, University President 
Fr. John 
“There is no greater sadness for a university community than the death of one of the students. There is certainly no greater sadness for a famiy than the loss of a son or brother. It is with a sense of that double sadness on behalf of the whole Unveristy, I want to express our deepest condolences.” 
Fr. John Jenkins University president 
Jenkins said Sullivan was bright, ener ­getic and dedi­cated. 
“There is no greater sadness for a university community than the death of one of the students. There is cer ­tainly no greater sadness for a family than the loss of a son or broth­er, ” Jenkins said. “It is with the sense of that double sadness that on behalf of the whole University, I want to express 
our deepest condolences.” 
Swarbrick said the investi­gation into Sullivan’s death began immedi-
Safety and ately. In response to ques-
Health Administration tions about practicing in the (IOSHA) also launched an weather conditions and investigation. The state allowing the videographers investigates all workplace to use the towers, he said fatalities, an IOSHA official each individual sports pro-said. gram makes its own deci ­
As Swarbrick walked sions about how practice will through the north end of the proceed. Investigators will 
the LaBar examine the decisions made 
“We’ll let the investigation thoroughly and completely run its course. And then we’ll have the ability to really understand what happened, to learn from it and to move forward from it.” 
Jack Swarbrick Director of Athletics 
quickly following the col ­lapse of the tower, Swarbrick said. NDSP responded in three minutes, followed by the Notre Dame Fire Department and a city ambu­lance. 
Swarbrick and head foot­ball coach Brian Kelly told players and staff members to leave the accident scene. 
“Coach Kelly remained with me by Declan until the ambulance attendant had Declan up on a lift, ” Swarbrick said. 
B e f o r e  t h e  a m b u l a n c e  
r e a c h e d  t h e  h o s p i t a l ,  
S u l l i v a n  w a s  n o  l o n g e r  

breathing on his own, he 
towers were 
about that spe­cific practice leading up to the accident, he said. 
Swarbrick said no infor ­mation will be released until the investiga ­tion is com ­plete. He said he expects the practice field will be restored by this week ­end. 
At least one other videogra­pher was on a tower taping practice We dnesday. Swarbrick said he has wit ­nessed past practices in which the video not used, possi­
bly because of weather con­cerns, most likely, lightning, he said. 
The videographers are part 
of the broader football administration team, and they report to a video coordi­nator. 
“We’ll let the investigation thoroughly and completely run its course. And then we’ll have the ability to real­ly understand what hap ­pened, to learn from it and to move forward from it,” Swarbrick said. 

Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 



Of.ce of News and Information Above: Students join hands in prayer during a Mass Thursday evening to remember Declan Sullivan. Right: Members of the Notre Dame family enter the Basilica of the Sacred Heart before the Mass. The crowd flled the Basilica and spilled out onto the quad outside. 


Mass 
continued from page 1 
of our being here together as a community this night tell us that we are loved, and we are not alone,” Doyle said. “The divine scriptures, this Basilica filled tonight, the people standing out­side, the body and blood that we will share tonight, not only remind us, but they will show us in high drama that we are loved and we are not alone.” 
Doyle acknowledged the fear, isolation, guilt and anger that Sullivan’s family and friends, as well as the entire Notre Dame community, are experiencing in the aftermath of Wednesday’s accident. 
“Most days we live here in a place that feels like Eden before the Fall,” Doyle said. “But there are times in all of our lives that make us feel like we no longer have a story to orient us.” 
Despite these feelings, Doyle looked to the readings as stories for guidance and comfort. 
“No, we have not fallen off the page,” he said. “We are not lost. Yes, there are stories that tell us exactly who we are and where we are and where we are going.” 
Doyle also related the power of the stories in scripture to Sullivan’s love of storytelling. He said Sullivan’s passion for film-making allowed him to create meaningful stories through the lens of a camera. 
“Declan Sullivan has told great stories. His life has been a truly great story,” Doyle said. “Declan Sullivan and Jesus Christ invite us into the greatest story, the story of Jesus Christ’s love ... that we are loved and that we are never truly alone.” 
Doyle quoted a Eucharistic prayer that says, for those who follow Christ, life will not end after death, but simply change. 
“Declan Sullivan’s life is changed, but it is not ended,” he said. “Declan now lives in the most full form and the best essence of his being.” 
Those standing outside could hear the Mass through speakers, but they were unable to see it. 
Freshman Kathleen Duncan did not know Sullivan personally, but she remained outside on the chilly, windy night to stand in soli­darity with the Notre Dame com­munity. 
“The whole feeling of the cam­pus and the community just made me want to be here,” she said. “You could tell everyone was cold but ... nobody complained.” 
Duncan said the crowd gath­ered outside the Basilica was “very united,” particularly during the sign of peace. Though Duncan only came with two other stu­dents, she turned and hugged the people around her. 
“It was like a big family,” she said. 
Student body chief of staff Nick Ruof, who helped organize the Mass, said he knew there would be an outpouring of attendees, but even more attended than he expected. 
“The security guards and the ushers said, ‘We’ve never seen anything like it,’” Ruof said. 
Around nine priests were need­ed to serve communion to the crowd outside, which included an additional 500 people who walked over from the watch in LaFortune, he said. 
After the congregation sang the Alma Mater, hesitantly raising their index fingers into the air, words from Doyle’s homily stuck with them. 
“Declan is loved and he is not alone. And we are loved and we are not alone.” 

Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu and Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 





from Notre Dame and go out 
into the job market, more 
opportunities are available to continued from page 1 them,” he said. 
Donnelly, who is a member who have worked in our office of the moderate congressional in Washington,” he said. “My Democratic group named the wife also works at Notre Blue Dog Coalition, said his Dame, so the University is a moderate political stance huge part of influences his our lives and I economic deci-



Donnelly 
“We have seen the 
am extraordi-sions. narily proud unemployment rate “I think our to be a gradu-moderate policies 
drop throughout our
ate of the are what is going 
district, so college 
school.” to get us back to a 
Donnelly students who want to balanced budget, said the issue which is critical 
stay in our area from
of employ -to our college stu-
Notre Dame and go
ment is criti-dents,” he said. cal for college out into the job On the topic of students, and health care, 
market, more 
young college Donnelly said one 
opportunities are
graduates in of the most popu­

Indiana’s 2nd available to them.” lar aspects of the Congressional bill across party District are an lines was the pos-the health care reform debate icy and a very environmentally “We are hopeful that this 
Joe Donnelly

i m p o r t a n t sibility for in Congress. friendly energy policy.” time next year there will be 
U.S. representative

part of the dependents to be “We wanted to make sure Donnelly said education significant stability in workforce. Indiana 2nd District carried on their the bill was not only pro-life in would continue to be of politi-Afghanistan and troops will 
“We have parents’ program its funding sources, but it’s cal importance if he is reelect-actually be coming home,” seen the until age 26. also pro-life in the way that it ed, as his district is influential Donnelly said. unemployment rate drop “I think it’s a big help,” he treats expecting mothers in in that level of learning. Donnelly said the combina­throughout our congressional said. the medical area,” he said. “Our district is blessed with tion of his economic and for-district, so college students Donnelly said his pro-life Donnelly also takes a strong Notre Dame and so many eign policies represents the who want to stay in our area stance was important during stance on responsible energy other college institutions,” he correct political approach the 
independence. He said the said. “I’m a strong supporter country should be taking 
U.S. could drill offshore in an of increasing Pell Grants and a towards solving the issues that environmentally conscious strong supporter of decreasing are being addressed in this manner that is both safe and student interest on loans. A election. responsible. He cited the big part of my work is making “I think that the Blue Dog recent BP oil spill disaster as college more affordable for message of fiscal conser ­an example of a company cut-our families.” vatism, strong national ting corners, something he Despite the country being in defense and strong support for said the U.S. government must the midst of a troop surge in not only American families, curb. Afghanistan, Donnelly said he but also American small busi­
“Part of our job in Congress is looking to increased steadi-nesses is the right message at and in the country is to make ness in the region. The pres-this time,” he said. sure the rules are followed,” ence of American troops in the he said. “If we do this we can Afghanistan could change in Contact Sam Stryker at have a very strong energy pol-the coming months, he said. sstryke1@nd.edu 








Graduate students find challenges rewarding 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Teaching assistant by day, researcher by night — add on another 30 to 50 hours of reading and studying, take into considera­tion some driving time, and you begin to have a clearer image of the life of a graduate student at Notre Dame. 
Victoria Smith, a graduate stu­dent in her second year of a Ph.D. program in the biology depart­ment, assists in a freshman biolo­gy class. 
Through a teaching assistant (TA) position, graduate students can receive a stipend for their services, she said. Graduate stu­dents also obtain stipends through fellowships they have been awarded, or through a research assistantship. 
“A stipend is essentially a paid salary for your work as a gradu­ate student,” Smith said. “With a research assistantship, your advi­sor is responsible for paying your salary through his research fund­ing.” 
Karen Tang, a first-year clinical psychology doctoral student, works in a less visible position, focusing her energy into research. 
“The stipend that I receive from the University of Notre Dame allows me to devote my time to research and academics, without having to worry about taking an outside job to pay for daily living expenses,” Tang said. “It is an honor and a privilege to have the opportunity to just learn and think.” 
Graduate students with paid stipends, Smith said, are not per­mitted to have any other jobs. Tang found that with her demanding course and research workload, there would be no time for an outside job, even if allowed one. 
“Graduate school is a full-time position,” Tang said. 
Smith estimates approximately 45 to 55 hours of her week are devoted to research in the lab, in addition to her work as a TA and reading at home. 
Tang spends the majority of her non-class time in the lab, reading articles in her area of interest, attending meetings and working with undergrad-
Graduate students also take advanced classes on their topic of interest, Smith said. Students in the Ph.D. program have to take two classes a semester for the first two years of the program, and then one credit worth of classes afterwards. 
“Classes tend to be primarily discussion based rather than test based,” Smith said. “They involve reading a lot of primary literature 
that is being pub­

uate research assistants. Though stu­ “The biggest piece of advice I have for  lished in science journals.” F r e d e r i c k ’ s  
dents traditional­ly go straight from undergrad­uate education  undergraduates is not to be afraid to speak to your  course load requires him to take three core classes and three  
to graduate school, Tang took a detour. She had a part- professors, TAs or professionals in the feld you are  other electives, one of which must be in his field of specialty.  
time job where  interested in.”  These graduate  
she  assisted  a  students said living  
professor investi­gating potential environmental  Karen Tang frst-year Ph.D. student  off campus has its benefits. Though there is  
and genetic fac­ the drawback of  
tors involved in  commuting  to  

autism. After graduation, she was work every morning, an especial-offered a full-time position in the ly difficult task on football week­professor’s lab, which guided her ends, Smith is able to have pets toward her current position. and plant a garden. 
“I was lucky to have been intro-For Tang, life off campus allows duced to a field that I am so for separation between her work intrigued by,” Tang said. and personal life. 
Thomas Frederick, a first-year “So much of my time is spent chemistry and biochemistry grad-working in the lab, which is off uate student, entered his field of campus, or in classes,” she said. study by accident. “I appreciate [having] the time at 
“When inquiring into under-home to unwind.” graduate research opportunities, I After graduate school, Smith was not able to join the original said she will likely stay in acade­lab group that interested me. I mia as an assistant professor at a ended up in one that shaped my university. Tang hopes to continue career as a research scientist,” he working with children with said. autism and their families. 
Frederick said this ultimately For undergraduates looking to sparked his interest in protein go to graduate school, Tang sug­dynamics using Nuclear Magnetic gested thinking about it early. Resonance. “The biggest piece of advice I have for undergraduates is to not be afraid to speak to your profes­sors, TAs or professionals in the field that you are interested in. Ask questions about what they thought of their program of study, if there are any faculty members accepting students for the upcom­ing year and even what they believe would be the best fit for you,” Tang said. “People love to share their experiences with future graduate students.” 
Frederick said that preparation is key, especially as an undergrad­uate. 
“As an undergraduate, you should go beyond the simple class requirements and seek out oppor­tunities to get experience. Not only does this increase your chances of getting either a good job position or admittance to a professional degree program,” he said, “but it allows you to experi­ence a field of work so that you can decide now, rather than later, if it is something you would like to do.” 

Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 





Positive attitude guides paralyzed alum after accident 

Martinuzzi makes steady progress in occupational therapy, works toward goal to return to medical school 
not like I’m doing 30 pound met, has made the recovery bicep curls.” process easier and helped him, 
Martinuzzi is mostly working he said. 
on regaining the strength in his His family created a Facebook 
back and shoulders. One of his page called “Friends of Aaron 
current goals is working to able Martinuzzi” and they also made 
to operate his wheel chair with a page on caringbridge.org, 
a joystick. Currently he uses a where family and friends can 
“suck-n-blow” wheelchair, give updates about the status of 
which moves the chair through a loved one going through a 
either sucking or blowing air challenging health issue, 
into a tube. according to the website. 
Even though the recovery “I’ve always been someone 
process is slow and tedious, that looks forward and doesn’t 
Martinuzzi said he is confident look back,” Martinuzzi said. 
in his abilities. He specifically “It’s nice to know that everyone 
wants to gain strength in his else shares that attitude and 
hands and shoulders because can look forward to new goals.” 
that will help him become more Some of his aunts have 
capable in all areas, he said. planned fundraisers to help 
His ultimate goal is to be able cover some of the medical 
to return to medical school at expenses. At their first event, a 
the University of New England, walk/run in October, a special 
where he was working toward donation was made in 
his doctorate of osteopathic Martinuzzi’s honor. 

medicine. “One of my aunts … knew “Right now, I can see some that I loved to rock climb and significant gains, but I can’t ate a lot of Cliff Bars,” he said. predict what exactly will hap-“She contacted [the company] pen,” Martinuzzi said. “I just and showed them my mountain take it a day and a week at a project page, which is like time.” Facebook for climbers. They He said his previous experi-liked what they saw and donat­looks at his life-changing spinal Since then, he’s moved to the ence as an athlete has helped ed 66 pounds of Cliff Bars to the 
By ANNA BOARINI 

cord injury in a positive light. University Hospital at the him keep a positive outlook on event.” 
News Writer 

“It’s been an exercise in University of Michigan, where this while process. Martinuzzi said he is grateful patience,” he said. he is doing OT four to six times “I swam in high school and for the support he has and the 
After 2008 graduate Aaron After his Aug. 20 accident, a day. was an avid climber”, he said. progress he’s making. 
Martinuzzi broke his neck div-Martinuzzi spent three weeks in “Right now, due to the nature “I was always working on “Everyone has been incredibly 
ing into a pool in August, he a Biddeford, Maine hospital, of my injury, I’m working improving my performance. positive,” he said. “Every day I 
was paralyzed from his shoul-where he got his respiratory toward really simple things,” Rehab is sort of the exact same realize just how lucky I am.” 
ders down. He’s spent the past functions back and did some Martinuzzi said. “I’m strong process.” 
few months in rehabilitation simple occupational therapy enough to use machines with Support from family, friends Contact Anna Boarini at 
trying to regain strength, but he (OT). really, really light weight. It’s and even people he has never aboari01@saintmarys.edu 




Hums delivers his ‘Last Lecture’ 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
Everyone is on a journey and the most important part of that journey is the path that you travel along the way, account­ing professor Ed Hums said Thursday evening at the fourth installment of the 2010-11 Last Lecture Series. 
The student government-sponsored Last Lecture Series gives Notre Dame professors the opportunity to share their life lessons and experiences outside of the classroom set­ting. 
“You should always take the time to recognize who is walk­ing with you,” he said in the lecture at Washington Hall. “The three ‘P’s,’ parents, priests and professors, are especially important in your journey here at Notre Dame.” 
Hums said he still remem­bers when he was first accept­ed to Notre Dame as an under­graduate and how his mother cried when she heard the news. 
“Never underestimate your parents’ love for you and make sure you reciprocate your love for them,” he said. 
Hums said he believes the priests at Notre Dame are great resources of faith for the students to turn to in times of need. He also discussed the relationship between the pro­fessors and the students, draw­ing from his personal experi­ence as a faculty member at the University. 
“Professors actually live through their students,” he said. “You’ll never know how 

Corruption in officers frustrates Calif. police 
Associated Press 
ELL, Calif. — Leaders of this scandal-ridden city's police union, frustrated by what they see as a lack of urgency to investigate cor­ruption in their own depart­ment, are calling for the suspension of a high-rank­ing police official and an investigation of their ousted former police chief. 
Kurt Owens, vice presi­dent of the Bell Police Officers Association, said Thursday that he and other veteran officers knew for years of abusive towing practices that targeted Hispanic drivers and had heard allegations of police involvement in voter fraud. He said he and others com­plained to their superiors and to outside investigators, but saw little done to stop it. 
“I’ve been to the FBI and the DA's office on issues like 



Univ. posts info of 40K students 
Google cleared its caches late Thursday, some 11 months after the information was first put online. 
“During that time, theoretical­ly, anybody with an Internet con­nection could have had access to it. How likely that is ... is any­body's guess,” said Titus, who discovered the files under a Google search. 
Titus said the university's statement that it has no evidence that the personal information was used maliciously was some­what misleading. 

information breach in the UH system since last year. Each time, university officials promised it was strengthening its network systems and working to identify other potential security risks. 
In the latest breach, UH imme­diately removed the exposed files and disconnected the server from the network when it was notified of the information breach on Oct. 18 by Aaron Titus, information privacy direc­tor of Liberty Coalition, which is a Washington-based policy insti­tute. 
much your successes mean to us.” 
Hums told students to pick out one professor each semes­ter and to take the opportunity to really get to know that pro­fessor. 
“You never know what expe­riences you may share with him or her or what doors it will open to you in the future,” he said. 
The gap between students and professors at Notre Dame has grown, and Hums said he is said about that. 
“You have to understand that not only can you learn, but you can also enjoy it,” he said. 
Hums told the students it’s okay if they encounter difficul­ties with the material in their classes. 
“There are a lot of people out there who struggle, and it’s okay,” he said. “You may get B’s or C’s, but you will still turn out well.” 
Hums also said students should have a strong support system of friends and col­leagues. 
“Friends are there forever. They will help you get through your journey,” he said. “And colleagues help you do the heavy lifting. They are the peo­ple who lift you up continuous­ly when you have your down days.” 
Hums encouraged students to think about the little butter­fly effects in their lives. 
“There are so many simple events that lead you to great things,” he said. “It’s important to recognize them.” 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 
this and others that came up three or four years ago,” Owens, a 23-year veteran of the department, told The Associated Press after a news conference outside the city's small police head ­quarters. “We were told, ‘We think this is an interde­partment feud,’ and, ‘Bring us more evidence.’” 
Since the Los Angeles Times reported in July that Bell's former city manager, police chief, and four of its five City Council members were among officials paid huge salaries to run the working-class city, several agencies have confirmed they are investigating. 
Eight current and former officials of Bell, including the mayor, vice mayor and former city manager, were charged in September with misappropriating $5.5 mil­lion in public funds from the city, where one in six people live in poverty. 

Associated Press 
HONOLULU — The Social Security numbers, grades and other personal information of more than 40,000 former University of Hawaii students were posted online for nearly a year before being removed this week, The Associated Press has learned. 
University officials told the AP that a faculty member inadver­tently uploaded files containing the information to an unprotect­ed server on Nov. 30, 2009, exposing the names, academic performance, disabilities and other sensitive information of 40,101 students who attended the flagship Manoa campus from 1990 to 1998 and in 2001. A handful of students from the West Oahu campus were includ­ed in the security breach. 
UH-West Oahu spokesman Ryan Mielke said there was no evidence that the faculty mem­ber acted maliciously or that any of the information was used improperly. The faculty member, who retired from the West Oahu campus in June, was conducting a study of the success rates of Manoa students, and believed he was uploading the material to a secure server. 
The university apologized for the incident, saying it was inves­tigating how it happened. It was notifying the former students by e-mail and letters, and has also alerted the FBI and Honolulu police. 
“We are troubled (and) deter­mined to notify everyone accord­ing to law and committed to do everything possible in the future to prevent this from happening,” UH system spokeswoman Tina Shelton said. 
The incident is the third major 







San Diego policeman dead after shootout 
Unnamed suspects kill an offier and two 

others after a police confrontation 

Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO — A shootout at an apartment left a police offi­cer and two other people dead Thursday, sending dozens of residents running from their homes, many in their pajamas. 
Officer Christopher Wilson was fatally shot in the con­frontation that began Wednesday night, when San Diego County officers and U.S. marshals went to check on a man on probation and serve an arrest warrant on another. 
After the man on probation slammed the door in their faces, officers pushed their way into the apartment and arrested him, said Assistant Police Chief Jim Collins. Four other people ran into a back bedroom, including the man police believe was named on the warrant, he said. 
Officers got backup from the San Diego police department and then kicked in the door of the bedroom, where they were met with gunfire, Collins said. 
Wilson, a 17-year police force veteran, was fatally shot in the living room while three officers fired back. Two officers fled to another bedroom and eventual­ly escaped out a window, Collins said. 
Fellow officers carried Wilson down the stairs from the sec­ond-story apartment. Moments later, police banged on resi­dents' doors, yelling, “Get out! Get out!” witnesses said. 
A 26-year-old father of two who only identified himself as Luis listened to the confronta­tion from his downstairs apart­ment. “I just heard like a big boom, then they exchanged some words, then I heard, ‘Officer down! Officer down!’” Luis said. 
He told The Associated Press that he looked out his window and saw officers carrying Wilson, whose face was covered in blood. Luis yelled for his wife and two young children, and was preparing to make an escape when officers banged on his door to help his family leave safely. 
“It was pretty scary,” said Luis, who fled without putting on his shoes. 
Luis said his family joined about 50 men, women and chil­dren who were running, crouched down, to the other side of the complex, under the crackle of gunfire. Some were in pajamas and slippers. 
They later made their way to a supermarket parking lot across the street, where they spent the night as the standoff continued until shortly after dawn. 
After a SWAT team tossed a nondestructive grenade to make a loud noise and flash of light inside the apartment, a man and woman inside notified police that they wanted to come out. They were detained for questioning, Collins said. 
An hour later, police shot tear gas into the apartment. 
When no one else emerged after 90 minutes, police crept back into the apartment, Collins said, where officers discovered a man and woman fatally shot on the floor, which was littered with guns. Police believe the dead man may be the suspect named on the warrant for a case of assault with a deadly weapon. 
It was not immediately clear whether the two committed sui­cide or died during the shootout, Collins said. He also did not know how many weapons were found in the home. 
Police have not released the suspects' names or details about them, saying they were investi­gating. Police said they believe the man on probation may have been harboring the man wanted on the warrant, but they did not know the relationship between them and the others in the apartment. 
Wilson, 50, who had served in the Navy, patrolled the south­east working class neighbor­hood called Skyline for years. He helped train rookies and taught them to treat residents respectfully, city officials said. 






Teen murder suspect testifies against co-defendant 
Associated Press 
NASHUA — A New Hampshire teenager charged in a deadly home invasion testified Thursday he heard the victims’ screams and pleas before two of his partners started hacking at the mother and daughter. 
Eighteen -year-old Quinn Glover said the mother screamed to her daughter to run. 
“They were terrified,” Glover said. “I heard cries for help, begging, ‘no,no’” 
Glover testified against co-defen­dant Steven Spader, 18, who prosecu­tors say wielded the machete in the attacks that killed Kimberly Cates and severely wounded her 11-year­old daughter, Jaimie, in their Mont Vernon home one year ago. 

Glover said Spader was obsessed 
w i t h  k i l l i n g p e o p l e  i n  t h e  w e e k s  
before the attacks.  
S p a d e r, h e t e s t i f i e d ,  w a n t e d  t o  

break into homes, kill the occupants, stay overnight in the home, roast and eat the victims and stage their bodies for the media. He talked at one point 
about putting the heads of his victims 
on stakes, Glover said. Glover previously pleaded guilty to 
robbery, burglary and conspiracy. He 
agreed to cooperate with the state in 
exchange for a 20-year prison sen­
tence. On cross -examination, Glover 
acknowledged he lied to police in his 
first two interviews. He concocted 
several alibis for himself, first that 
he was meditating in woods and later 
that he was watching television with 
his father. He said he was telling the truth Thursday. Spader is charged with murder, attempted murder and other felonies. As Glover testified, Spader stared at him with his fingers pressed in front of him — his standard pose during the four days of his trial Glover appeared in court wearing orange prison pants and shirt, his shackled ankles invisible to jurors. He punctuated most of his answers with “sir.” Glover said Spader and co -defendants Christopher Gribble and Billy Marks origi­nally targeted the house next door to the Cates home on Trow Road, but ruled it out as too big. After they broke into the house, Glover said, the four approached the closed bedroom door with weapons out. He said Spader had a machete and Gribble had a knife. He said they were in the lead and they entered the bedroom. Then the screams began. “I heard screams and cries. I heard ‘Jaimie, run! Please don't do it,’” Glover testified Glover said he turned around, cov­ered his ears and walked back toward the kitchen. 
Prosecutor Peter Hinckley asked him why. 
“I walked away because I wanted to walk away from the situation,” Glover said. “I didn't take anything that was said prior seriously. That was my mistake.” 
Afterward, Glover said, Spader was “euphoric, excited. He seemed like he had just gotten off a roller coast­er.” Glover said he told Spader they were making too much noise, to which Spader replied, “Two people are dead. I think we made enough noise.” 
Glover said he did not see the attacks, but entered the room later. He said he saw Jaimie crumpled on the floor, tangled in the curtains of a sliding glass door. 
Jaimie told police she pretended to be dead, then staggered to the kitchen to call police. A doctor testi­fied that if she had lost conscious­ness and not gotten help, she would have died from a punctured lung. 
“On the bed, there was a woman covered in blood,” Glover said. “She was moving somewhat and moaning.” He said he saw Gribble put a knife to the right side of her throat. Glover said he turned away, and when he looked back, the knife was on the other side of Kimberly Cate's throat. 
Glover said he lost track of Marks but Marks had no blood on his cloth­ing after the attacks. 
On the ride home, Glover said, Spader was laughing and joking. 
Glover admitted on cross-examina­tion by defense attorney Andrew Winters that he went to the house with the intent of killing the occu­pants, and that he was fascinated by killers such as Charles Manson. 
The prosecutor asked Glover if he had attacked either victim, and he answered “no.” 
Glover said Spader was still euphoric 12 hours after the attacks. He said Spader and Gribble showed up in his driveway and Spader grabbed him by the shoulders. 
“He ... said, ‘Quinn, we broke up a family. Isn't that great?’” Glover tes­tified. “He said it may become an addiction because he liked the high so much.” 
Marks, who has yet to enter a plea, has agreed to testify against Spader and Gribble, who is to go on trial in February. A fifth defendant, Autumn Savoy, pleaded guilty to hindering the prosecution and conspiracy in exchange for a 5-to 19-year sen­tence. He also is expected to testify against Spader. 




Council targets street harassment 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Whistles, cat­calls and lewd come-ons from strangers are all too familiar to New York City women, who say they are harassed multiple times a day as they walk down the street. Now lawmakers are examining whether to do some­thing to discourage it. 
A City Council committee heard testimony Thursday from women who said men regularly follow them, yell at them and make them feel unsafe and uncomfortable. Advocates told stories of preteens and teenagers being hounded by adult men outside city schools and pleaded for government to address the problem. 
“This is not our way of not being able to take a compli­ment,” said Nefertiti Martin, who testified at the hearing. “This is an issue of safety.” 
Street harassment of women is as old as cities themselves and is common around the world, but the pushback against it is a more recent movement. Volunteer activists in Cairo are planning to launch a website, Harrasmap, where women can instantly report cases of leering, groping and other sexual threats. 
Soon, the group Hollaback, an organization formed five years ago to stand up to street harassment, will release a smart phone app allowing women everywhere to do the same. 
Hollaback told councilmem­bers that women have left jobs, broken leases and skipped school all just to avoid inces­sant unwelcome advances from strange men they pass on their commutes. 
Holly Kearl, author of “Stop Street Harassment: Making Public Places Safe and Welcoming for Women,” said she informally surveyed more than 800 women from 23 coun­tries and 43 states, and 99 per­cent of them had been harassed by strangers. 
“Because of street harass­ment, from a young age women learn that public spaces are male territory,” Kearl said. “They learn to limit the places they go, they try not to be in public alone — especially at night — and when they are alone, they stay on guard.” 
Councilwoman Julissa Ferreras, chair of the women’s issues committee that held the hearing Thursday, recalled learning as a young teen how to “speedwalk” to dodge certain men, and which corner stores she should always avoid. 
“This harassment limits the rights and freedoms of women and girls to enjoy a simple walk outside,” she said. 
The Associated Press heard similar stories from New York City women. 
Kat Pope, 28, of Manhattan, said she quit going to her gym in the mornings because she was harassed so badly on her way there and back. Men at a construction site would whistle, stare and yell at her as she passed, every single day. 

She still gets harassed in other locations, but it happens maybe once a week instead of daily. 
“It feels disgusting,” she said. “In the moment, I feel helpless and I never know what to do to make it stop.” 
Carrie Goodman, 27, a stu­dent who lives in Manhattan, said she hears a whistle or comment “once or twice a day.” 
“It bothers me, but I just keep walking,” she said. Goodman is skeptical that lawmakers can do anything about it, though. 
“You can’t really control what comes out of people’s mouths,” she said. 
Hollaback is pushing the city to commission a study, a public awareness campaign and per­haps even legislation, including “no-harassment zones” around 
schools  to  protect  young  
women.  
“Too  commonly,  street  

harassment is believed to be the price women pay for living in New York City,” said its exec­utive director, Emily May. “But we’re not buying it.” 
New York men who told the AP they have called out strange women on the street said they were doing it just to be friendly and seemed genuinely sur­prised that any attention can be unwelcome. 
“We say hello, that’s all, noth­ing derogatory,” said Tony Alibrandi, 54, a construction worker taking a lunch break with several of his fellow work­ers. “We see a friendly face, we say hello.” 



Scientists unearth dinosaur skeleton 

Associated Press 
DENVER — Scientists say they’ve found the first com­plete skeleton of a dinosaur that is an ancestor to the sauropod, the largest creature ever to walk the planet. 
The 30-foot-long skeleton, complete with skull, may help reveal the story of how the 120-foot-long, giant-necked sauropods evolved and became solely plant eaters. 
The bones were found in southern China, Texas Tech paleontologist Sankar Chatterjee said Thursday. He planned to present preliminary findings of the discovery Sunday at the Geological Society of America meeting in Denver. 
“It’s like a manuscript. Many pages are missing. We are still trying to piece it together,” Chatterjee said. “This is one of those missing links. Now we’ll know better how these dinosaurs evolved.” 
The skeleton, estimated at more than 200 million years old, was found by one of Chatterjee’s colleagues in 2005 in flood plains around Lufeng in Yunnan province, which has been rich with dinosaur finds, he said. 
It appears to be that of a new species, which has tenta­tively been named Yizhousaurus sunae to honor the local population and a Chinese paleontologist, Chatterjee said. 
At least six other species of sauropod relatives have been found in the same deposit where this skeleton was found, said Randall Irmis, curator of paleontolgy at the Utah Musuem of Natural History and an assistant professor at the University of Utah. 
He said he had not seen Chatterjee’s report but saw photos of the skull. “It looks strikingly similar to an animal in the same deposits, the Jingshanosaurus,” Irmis said. 
The skeleton Chatterjee is studying shows the animal stood on four feet. It also has the beginnings of a long neck. The broad, high, domed skull has eye sockets on the sides and a short snout with a wide, U-shaped jaw of a broad. Serrated, spoon-shaped teeth suggest it ate plants, like sauropods. 
The bones of all sauropod ancestors that scientists have found in recent years are fill­ing in clues about how such giant beasts came to be and when they started eating only plants. 
“Everyone loves sauropods because they’re the largest animals to have ever walked the earth,” Irmis said. “Even the public wants to know, how did this great body size evolve? Specimens like this help us answer those questions.” 



“Enthusiastic” best describes Scene contributor Declan Sullivan. 
Declan was enthusiastic about music and film, wasn't afraid to jump on a challenging story, strove to come up with interesting twists on arts and entertainment reporting, and always brought energy to the room. 

Declan often used his knowledge and training from the Department of Film, Television and Theatre to come up with new leads or provide specialized insight in his writing. 
He had a laid-back personality, but he still jumped at the opportunities to secure an interview with artists like Shwayze and comedians like Mike Birbiglia and Michael Ian Black. 

He was a friend to many people on The Observer staff, and he will be sorely missed. His coworkers at The Observer shared their memories of him. 
-senior Jordan Gamble, Scene Editor 
“Although I knew him only briefly, Declan lit “Declan was a friendly and animat­up any room he was in for more than 30 sec-ed presence in the Observer office. I onds. His personality was contagious, and I never saw him without a smile. He 
“Declan was definitely the quintessential Scene writer, 
couldn't help but gravitate toward someone will be greatly missed.”
always laid-back and fun to be around but ambitious 
with a passion for life. I will miss your fearless-

and enthusiastic about what he wrote. He was always 
ness and one-of-a-kind sense of humor. You will - senior Packy Griffin, Scene Writer 
excited to take on challenging interviews that others 
never be forgotten in the basement of South 

might find intimidating and his articles were full of cre-
Dining Hall.” 

ative twists, so there was never a dull moment while editing his work. He was a unique soul, and he will be “I met Declan my first week of freshman 
-junior Chris Masoud, Assistant Sports Editor 

deeply missed.” year. Walking into my Theo 101 class, I had no idea what to expect. As I took a seat in the 
-junior Alexandra Kilpatrick, Assistant Scene Editor back of the classroom, I took stock of the peo­ple around me, unaware of the impact they would have on my life and the friendships we 
“Editing on a night when Declan was writing always would form. Declan was one of those people. had an air of mystery in it. What exactly is he going to We quickly formed a bond during that class, turn in? He had a unique way of expressing his thoughts and although we ran in different circles, we 
“I went back and read some of the articles and opinions about movies, music and everything in-Declan wrote for The Observer. Some of would often find time to meet up, even after between. His stories were far from conventional. His the semester ended. Declan had a way of 
them I now remember reading earlier this voice was totally unique and very pervasive in his work. always making you smile, and no matter how
year, sitting in South Dining Hall, admiring Scene has lost a writer who always kept us from being and being inspired by the work of other long it had been since he had seen you, he stale. You will be missed, Declan.” always greeted you with a hug and a genuine
Scene writers. To think that we've lost inquiry into how your life was going. His sig-
Declan so soon is truly heartbreaking.” 
-junior Maija Gustin, Associate Scene Editor nature laugh brightened a room. It was hard to hang out with him and not just love the life
- freshman Ward Pettibone, Scene Writer 
you were living. 
He will be a sorely missed face on campus, and I cherish every moment that we spent together and every moment that made me 

“I officially met Declan the second week of our “Although I did not know Declan personally I laugh.” freshman year, and we had been friends ever am familiar with his work as I have created since. The first time we met was when a mutual graphics to accompany his articles on the Scene - junior Mary Claire O’Donnell, Scene Writer friend introduced us outside of CoMo. I intro-page over the years. I believe I speak on behalf duced myself, and he forgot my name about fif-of the entire graphics department -staff mem­
“As members of the Notre Dame com-teen seconds later. I always knew he felt awful bers past and present -when I say that his hon­munity, we are all deeply saddened by about that incident because he always made sure est, upbeat, humorous articles will be greatly the news about Declan. It is always sad to say “Hello, Molly!” every other time we met up missed. Our thoughts and prayers are with him when a life is cut short at such a youngfor the next two years. I'll never forget the money and his family.” 

age. We pray that his soul may rest in party in Fisher with Declan and his friends fresh-peace and we also pray for his family inman year. Campus just feels different without him - senior Blair Chemidlin, Graphics Editor this difficult time.”

here. He was an unbelievably kind person and a good friend.” 
- senior Cornelius Rogers, Scene Writer 
-junior Molly Sammon. Assistant Sports Editor 
“I met Declan at an Observer party last year and could tell immediately that he was a genuine per­son. He wasn’t afraid of just being himself. He was the kind of person who didn’t take things too seri­ously, had a great sense of humor and just wanted to have fun. He brought smiles and laughs to so many on this campus. Declan, you will be dearly missed.” 
-junior Sara Felsenstein, News Production Editor 

“(What) I remember about him was his insistence on attempting to sneak swear words into his articles, giving the whole office a good laugh every time editing his work, secretly wish­ing we could leave in what he wrote originally. What a horrible, horrible loss.” 
-junior Marissa Frobes, Assistant Scene Editor 
“I'll always miss Declan's carefree attitude, the way he badly danced like no one was watching him and sang off-key at the top of his lungs like no one was lis­tening. He was one of the funniest guys I'll ever know and I'll miss him.” 
- Chris Hine, class of 2009, Editor-in-Chief emeritus 



This is an excerpt from an “[500] Days” at least deserved article that originally ran in the a nomination for Best Original Feb. 17 issue of The Observer. Screenplay or Best Actor. That’s not to knock the movies nominat-Okay, so easily the best movie ed in those categories — they are released in the past 12 months pretty solid. But the fact that was “[500] Days of Summer.” “[500] Days of Summer,” a movie Starring Joseph Gordon-Levitt that not only completely changed and Zooey Deschanel, this the way an entire genre is per-romantic comedy managed to ceived — think “Star Wars” to take a genre that is flooded by sci-fi and fantasy movies — but awful Matthew McConaughey also appeals to nearly every per-and Jennifer Aniston vehicles son that it is shown to — I’m and turn it into something with a talking about coasties-to-stoners message on the complexities of range of appeal — did not garner modern relationships that, at the even a single nomination makes same time, remained entertain-me nervous about our society in ing due to an offbeat sense of general... humor, a great soundtrack and I’m not saying “[500] Days” visually dazzling moments that deserves to win Best Picture, or conveyed the emotions of the even be nominated for it, but characters in a way that words looking at some of the movies up never could... for the award, it is at least as  good or better than half on the list. I mean, “Up” was a good movie, but aside from the first 15 minutes, it’s a pretty standard Pixar flick. And I don’t think standard flicks should be rewarded with both Best Picture and Best Original Screenplay nods... “[500] Days of Summer” deserved the nomination, and you not giving it to them just shows how oblivious you are to the difference between good movies and movies with big budgets and star power. If not giving the nomination seemed like the right move to you, then I don’t want to be right. P.S. If you haven’t seen “[500] Days of Summer,” you really should. Zooey Deschanel is sooooo hot.  This is an excerpt from an article that originally ran in the Sept. 17, 2009 issue of The Observer. Two weeks ago, a pair of Scene writers interviewed the music duo Shwayze in promo­tion of their new album "Let It Beat." The half of the interview involving producer Cisco Adler appeared last week. This is the (printable) portion of the conver­sation that transpired between Scene writers Mike Bartlett and Declan Sullivan and rapper Aaron Smith, a.k.a. Shwayze... Mike Bartlett: Anybody else  who's coming up? Shwayze: Beardo is coming up, everyone on Banana Beat … oh, and LMFAO. This tour we're about to do is going to be out of control. Are we coming to your city? MB: No! We talked to Cisco about this. You're going to Des Moines, Iowa, but not to South Bend. Declan Sullivan: Yeah, talk about a slap in the face! S: Oh, wow. (Laughs.) How far of a drive is it? MB: From Malibu to ND? Declan Sullivan: It might be a bit. (Laughs.)  
This article originally ran in the April 12 issue of The Observer. Going into The Roots/Mike Posner concert Saturday, I didn’t really know what to expect. I had never heard of Mike Posner before he was announced as the opener, so I didn’t know a lot about him. I liked The Roots a lot, but many of my favorite songs by them are collaborations or feature substantial guest per­formances, so I was wary that their live set may not be as good as their production sound. I showed up late and missed the first few songs of the Mike Posner concert, but what I saw was good. He worked the crowd, encouraged participa­tion and did everything a good entertainer should do. Honestly, however, it just was­n’t memorable. I remember having a good time during his set, but there were no specific moments that I remember because of him — I remember Notre Dame concert security, but that’s for later. Again, it wasn’t a bad concert: it was entertaining, but I probably won’t remember much from it a week from now. The Roots’ set, however, was epic. The band didn’t really adhere to a set list; instead, they took a much more “jam band” attitude towards the show. They inter­spersed in their songs short covers of other songs, individ­ual musician showcases and just pure jamming. They were able to control how the crowd felt at nearly all times, taking the room  from just chilling and bobbing their heads to raging and bouncing in a matter of sec­onds. The Roots are known for their amazing live sets, and now I know why this is their reputation. Also, their after-show demeanor — namely, the way they catered to the fans by coming out at the end to throw memorabilia into the crowd — was some of the best I’ve seen at a con­cert. The only major issue I had with the whole experience was the setting. Notre Dame does not know how to host concerts. I’ve been to concerts at home and concerts at other schools, and both the crowd and the concert security at Notre Dame were both such downers — it was the same for the Matisyahu concert. Some people in the crowd did not even seem like they want­ed to be there, and even more were hostile to many actions that I find essential to the concert experience: jamming out, singing, shouting, crowd surfing and moshing, among other things. Concert security wasn’t any better. In fact, their main pur­pose there seemed to be to quash any attempt to do any­thing besides stand station­ary, maybe allowing a bit of head bobbing and quiet talk­ing to those around you. If this is your idea of what a concert should be, go to a jazz club or lock the dorm to your room and listen to a CD by yourself in the dark. I like to go to real concerts, not ones that make me yearn a concert thrown in Chicago, at Madison or a junior college.  
This is an excerpt from an getting into music, making his article that originally ran in the own album and life as a Sept. 16 issue of The Observer. bonafide celebrity … well, sort of. Whereas the focus of Bon Iver is usually on founder Justin So first the basics: Where are you Vernon, drummer S. Carey — from, how did you get into music, real name Sean Carey — has when did you first want to be in a been more in the limelight as of band, all that stuff? late. Sure. I grew up in Lake His debut album, “All We Geneva, Wisc., and I started Grow,” an awesome album to playing drums when I was 10. I just put on and relax to, was was into music even before released on Aug. 24 to solid that: my mom is a singer, and reviews, and he is currently on my dad is a musician and music tour with The Tallest Man on teacher. I was listening to a lot Earth. of music as a kid, for sure. I Recently, I managed to get a remember I saw my oldest sis-phone interview with Sean and ter play in the middle school ask him a few questions about jazz band, and I thought that  was the coolest thing, especially the drummer. Really, for jazz band? I used to be in it. I never really pictured it as a cool thing. (laughs) Yeah, I thought it was really cool. I played in jazz bands until … well I still do. I definitely thought it was cool; I guess I’m a nerd. Yeah, I guess ever yone who played an instrument in high school was kind of a nerd in one way or another: Join the club on that one. You can’t really bust out the trumpet to get girls. (laughs) You just picked the wrong instrument.  
This is an excerpt from an would be interviewing comedi­article that originally ran in ans Mike Birbiglia and Michael the Sept. 10 issue of The Ian Black here ... Observer. After what seemed like an eternity, they finally entered. At 9:15 p.m. Friday night, I Michael and Mike were both walked into a nondescript extremely friendly, introducing room on the 2nd floor of themselves personally to every-LaFortune, not really knowing one in the room and asking for what to expect. I was told that our names... me and a few other students When Mike Birbiglia came  over to shake my hand, I intro­duced myself prompting a response of “Hey … Declan? Like D-U-C-K-L-I-A-N?” Everyone laughed, I corrected him, and then I proceed to gig­gle like a schoolgirl on the inside, knowing that one of my comedic heroes now has my ridiculous-sounding name ingrained into his head.  

BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 


A sign outside of 443 Fisher Hall ing, and it was here at Notre reads, “Declan Sullivan, Class of Dame where he cultivated his 2012.” The sign, a montage of the interest into a talent that dared to most whacky — most Declan-be on the edge and would always esque — pictures his friends could put a smile on audiences’ faces. put together, At the heart of it all, Declan was hangs bottom a soul wild at heart. To know him 
Shane Steinberg

right, next to was to know an individual who five similar struck a beautiful balance 
Scene Writer 

signs, includ-between being fun-loving and con­ing my own. stantly driven. When life gave him 
He was and forever will be a lemons, instead of making lemon-dear friend of ours, because ade, he made vodka sour. He was through it all — his legend status an individual in the truest sense during Frosh-O, his invention of of the word. In the end, there was “the bus driver” dance, his count-only one Declan. less “isms” that could give Yogi It’s so hard to think and try to Berra a run for his money and all process the reality that Declan is the other memories that now gone. How do we remember some-stand suspended in time in our one who made such an impact on hearts — he was one of us; the our lives when deep down it does­“wild card” of our group, ala “It’s n’t feel like he’s gone, perhaps 


Always Sunny In Philadelphia,” because the shock of it all makes and we love him for that. us cling to the hope that he’ll poke Shane, middle, with Declan to his right and other members of their 
I came to know Declan through his head through the door? 2010 Bookstore Basketball team, “The Blouses.” a line from one of his favorite I think the answer lies in a films, “American Beauty:” “There toast Ray Romano gave at his to mind, not everything, but the we have and decide which ones to is nothing worse than being ordi-brother Robert’s wedding in fond memories of a friend who I keep. We throw out some and nary.” Declan loved film: the art of “Everybody Loves Raymond:” cared deeply for. Everyone will keep the others — the good ones how a camera dances at the head Editing. Yes, editing. To remem-remember about Declan what they — just the good ones. of a scene, producing images, that ber a person is to remember a want to remember. For each of us, when put together take us to sum of so many parts — our expe-his friends, his family, and all the Shane is a junior who lived with another place and time if only for riences with, our perceptions of, members of the Notre Dame com-Declan in Fisher Hall and has a moment and make us feel some-and everything we associate with munity, there are a set of memo-written for the Scene section thing more than the ordinary. He that person. In thinking back on ries that will shape how we since his freshman year. hoped to inspire that same kind of Declan, however, it’s a series of remember him. Editing is how we Contact Shane Steinberg at wonder through his own filmmak-memories that most readily come dive through the many pictures ssteinb2@nd.edu 


“Them’s be fighting words!” to check my commentary. He, in good always pulled his weight. young, bright and smiley in the photo. 
The words slipped out of Declan’s journalistic style, backed up his com-Many have already commented on When recalling someone’s story like mouth smoothly. He gave me a sly ment with a solid article in Monday’s Declan’s relaxed disposition that put Declan’s, I admittedly only have look as I shot back a glare. paper. people readily at ease. His sense of glances. Fortunately, those glances 
We were sitting in our weekly Scene The entire staff of The Observer bold humor added a distinct comple-are simple yet shining peeks. section meeting. 
appreciated Declan’s steady contribu-ment to his laid-back attitude. Declan beaming as the Scene team As usual, I sat 
tions to Scene. I most appreciated his Declan frequently showed up to our loses another competition to the at the front of 
lively spirit that fostered a distinct meetings in sweats. His knit cap was Sports section at The Observer the room, doing 
sense of community within the sec-almost always pulled tightly down Christmas party. Declan, in his knit my best to 
tion. around his head. His hair poked out cap, poking fun at our weekly meet-simultaneously 
His willingness to be an active part and his eyes seemed bleary from ings, keeping the daily grind from look authorita­
of our weekly meetings may have what undoubtedly had been another becoming too mundane. Declan tive as section 
seemed a small part of his job great or, as Declan liked to put it, jovially picking an “indier-than-thou” editor while 
description at the time. In hindsight, “epic” weekend. fight with me over articles. also attempting 
Declan’s reliability in attending Scene I remember one month in particu-Declan’s bold comment of “Them’s to entertain a meetings put a face to his vivid byline. lar that I spent hounding the Scene be fighting words” often drifts small room of Volunteering for article assign-staff to take headshots for their through my head. Whenever I find distracted, ments that no one else wanted and bylines. I’d look over at Declan, in his myself in need of a pep talk, weirdly tired and over-his witty repartee were not included sweats and hat, and feel a creeping enough Declan’s crafty smile and that worked writers in his job description. But going suspicion that he’d ignore my trivial phrase pops into my head. With that on a Sunday afternoon. beyond the call of duty, Declan set request in his busy, fun-loving life. little bit of inspiration, I feel assured 
Declan sat to my left. Fast at his himself apart as a valuable member Even when I finished my term as that I’m on the right track, living life side was his partner in crime, Shane of the Scene family that allowed us to Scene Editor, I never got more than a boldly in the eyes of someone who Steinberg. The two almost always flourish creatively, professionally and shoulder shrug when I asked Declan indiscriminately brought life to week-came as a duo to Scene events, ready socially. if he’d gotten his photo yet. ly meetings and Christmas parties to deliver a witty play-by-play of my Declan’s death has highlighted the Today I discovered that Declan did, alike. meeting monologues. enduring and supportive quality of in fact, take his headshot. Declan’s Declan’s story, his life and his 
Despite my glare, admittedly I the community that he helped build. headshot is the photo you have seen death, inspires us to live life confi­adored their commentary, which kept Declan was an enthusiastic cheer-on television and in newspapers. dently, celebrating being young and me sane and eliminated the self-con-leader to section bonding. No one can When I sat down to read the cover-alive. With a ready embracing of life’s sciousness of taking oneself too seri-deny that he shined when rallying age of Declan’s death, I felt weighed preciousness, we can remember ously. Fortunately for the Scene sec-other Scene staffers to attend parties down by a heavy heart. Nonetheless, I Declan’s example with gratitude, tion, the two also came with a hearty together. couldn’t help but laugh when I saw laughter and a renewed sense of supply of fresh ideas and enthusiastic Declan, laughing and cheering, that his elusive headshot was the inspiration to seize a well-lived life. writing. would egg us on at the annual photo most frequently used to memo-
This particular verbal spar came Christmas Party as we lost yet anoth-rialize him. Jess is a senior and served as the from a disagreement about the film er competition to the Sports section. The story behind his headshot Scene Editor from March 2009 to “(500) Days of Summer.” After some Our losses could never be attributed seemed fitting for a relaxed spirit March 2010. gross overstatement on my part bash-to Declan. Eager and willing, he was with a wry sense of irony and humor. Contact Jess Shaffer at ing the film, Declan was bold enough a solid member of our team, who It seemed equally fitting that he looks jshaffe1@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

In honor of Declan 
In a noisy Fisher quad so recently visited, the dim lights shed evidence of a sea of young students, shouting and joking just audibly above the buzz of sharply selected music. A white MacBook endlessly streams a random boot­legged copy of some obscure movie that nobody has ever heard of, save for one person. The classmates collect all over the quad sharing stories of the hilarious day-to-days of each other, the friends swimming in the quad amidst a freshly-painted mosaic of random film books and beer can pyramids, collec­tions that chalk up evidence of hard work and a successful party thrown the week prior. As the laughter increases and the music buzzes, I can’t help but direct my smile to the center of the room. I’m drawn to the goofy, sprawled out Declan Sullivan as he so smiles with the sincerity and confidence unique to a lost generation. For that moment, I feel at home. 
This moment no longer exists. That vivid, seemingly uncharacteristic memory of a brief moment in time has since come and gone. The party died down long ago, and what should remain in the center of the room has now turned into a memory held by the few so fortunate. An individual with unex­plainable talent and limitless growth is no longer with us. Declan, the product of creativity and a yearning to share a vision, is now the victim of another moment in time. This time, the lights are off. The room is silent. All that remains is a memory. 
As I sit here writing this, silently fighting back vicious waves of emotions on every point of the spectrum, I’m surprisingly comforted. Declan had an uncharacteristic confidence that can’t be described through any normal stan­dards. He recognized the realities of life and sought true happiness through the pursuit of that which matters most: family, friends, experiences and last­ing memories. We as Notre Dame students search for meaning by subjecting ourselves to systems and standards and place unconscionable amounts of pressures on ourselves to succeed. Just like Declan, we are brought into this world to experience the true wonders of life, the miracles that have absolutely nothing to do with the trivialities us as Notre Dame students know all too well. We do this all with the hope in the back of our minds that these tests, homework, competitions and projects will somehow bring us closer to feeling “right,” that working hard in a system valued as true will bring the truth we so desperately crave, the same truth Declan lived every day in his live. We rely so much on success through the perspectives disciplined by years of self-conditioning that it has to take tragedies like this for all of us to stumble back and ask what just happened. 
As Ferdinand Foch once wrote, “The most powerful weapon on earth is the human soul on fire.” I reflect back on my fantastic memories with Declan here at Notre Dame, and I can’t help but smile. Much like Declan did in the center of that crowded room in one of the hundreds of moments with my friend, I’ve got a smile on my face and a laugh in my heart, because Declan, wherever he may be, knows that I finally see what he’s seen his entire life. It’s the drive to seek success through family, friends, experiences, and lasting memories that gave Declan the fire in his soul to become an unquestionably powerful figure for all who dared to know him. A presence encountered but for just a moment. 
The noisy Fisher quad comes back to life; the lights and music jump right back on. The students suddenly return to crowd a noisy quad, laughing and sharing stories much like before. While we stare to the center of a room that’s seemingly vacant, we share true laughter for the first time, smiling with the sincerity and confidence that is no longer unique to us anymore. We see Declan smiling back with that goofy smile and ridiculous laugh, made palpa­ble by the many moments with a friend who stood for something so much big­ger than us. As we look to each other and emulate Declan’s goofy smile, we’re all at ease, because we understand for the first time. We’re finally home. 
God bless Dec, we’ll forever love and miss you. We know you’re home too. 
Mark Anthony Rosa 
junior Fisher Hall Oct. 28 


Our Notre Dame family 
Since before I was a student at Notre Dame, I’ve heard of the incredible strength and unmatched support felt once a part of the Notre Dame Family. Never has the truth of that statement been more apparent to me than last night, as I sat at the Grotto and witnessed the silent strength of our student body grieving the loss of our classmate, Declan Sullivan. 
I saw you, girls from the 6 chick down the hall, lined up along the pew, sharing in the grief and supporting one another. I saw you, couple from Calculus class, gazing at the flickering candles, and holding hands in prayer. I saw you, boy from my engineering class last semester, light a candle for your lost classmate. I saw you, groups of friends and sections of dorms, gathered in prayer. Then, I saw you, men of Fisher Hall. I saw you walk together and stand in support of one another. And I witnessed you all say a decade of the rosary. 
The final words of the memorial, I could not hear, because the most mag­nificent and mighty wind gust blew. The blast of wind swirled leaves and howled so loudly; I closed my eyes. And when it ended, there was a calm. And I opened my eyes and saw the Grotto filled with people, and I know everyone there felt God’s presence in that windblast. 
Seeing my classmates support one another was a beautiful thing. At times, I could not see the light of candles because of the number of people gathered to pray together. Fr. Jenkins said mass at Lewis last night, and he encouraged us to reach out to one another in this time of great sorrow. Seeing so many of the Notre Dame Family, uniting in prayer and supporting one another, was a reminder of what a strong bond we all share, and what a blessing it is to be a part of it. We are Notre Dame. 

Kimberly Bonnet 
sophomore Lewis Hall Oct. 28 



MLB 





Hamilton battles at bat, with old addiction 
use drugs today,” Hamilton The Giants didn’t exactly fol-
Associated Press 

said. “You have things in place. low that advice in the opener 
He was the can’t miss kid, a You wake up in the morning and somehow managed to get talent so prodigious that he may and pray. I do my Bible study in away with it. Hamilton went have rewritten the record books the morning and at night when hitless in four at-bats before had things gone according to I get home. I listen to Christian drawing a walk his final time plan. music and country music. up in a losing effort. 
When cocaine meant more to There’s a lot of things I had to Without their star, though, the Josh Hamilton than life itself, change as far as what I was Rangers wouldn’t even be here. though, baseball didn’t stand a doing and what kind of life I Hamilton carried them against chance. was leading to make my life the Yankees, batting .350 with 
“All I could think about was better.” four home runs and so intimi­how to get and use more The years it took him to dating opposing pitchers that drugs,” Hamilton said a few change are lost forever, which they issued him an ALCS-record days ago. “I mean that’s all I one day may cost him a place in five intentional walks, including cared about and all baseball his-three in the Game 6 clincher. I thought about.” t o r y . “He’s capable of doing this for 
Blessed with Hamilton is many, many years into the tremendous ability, “The scouts are telling 29 now. The future, and I think the more he he was equally alcohol and plays, the more he begins to 
everybody, don’t let 

cursed by tremen-drugs that understand, and the better he dous desires. They Josh Hamilton beat were so will be,” manager Ron almost cost him his you and don’t pitch to much a part Washington said. “He makes career, and could of his life our lineup go.”
Josh Hamilton.” 

have cost him his kept him out What makes Hamilton go is a life. of the major little more complex. By his own 
On Thursday Nolan Ryan leagues far count, his battles with addiction night, Hamilton Rangers president longer than put him in and out of eight dif­was batting third Tampa Bay ferent rehab centers and, as the and playing center ever imag-years went on and the bonus field for the Texas ined when it money ran out, he started Rangers in Game 2 made him thinking that maybe he would of the World Series. If his team the No. 1 pick in 1999 and never play baseball again. ends up winning the champi-signed him to a $4 million But after serving several sus­onship, he’ll be the one being bonus. pensions for positive drug tests doused on the field with ginger Watch what he did to the in the minor leagues he finally ale instead of champagne. Yankees in the playoffs, though, made it to the majors with His idea of a big night on the think of all the bad stuff that He plays a game where fail-and it’s hard to believe that this Cincinnati in 2007. And now road is hanging out and playing can come from it. Think about ure comes easier than success. is a guy who has barely played he’s the certain American Xbox with pitcher C.J. Wilson, killing somebody, waking up the But his time on the field may be the equivalent of three full League MVP after hitting .359 
who doesn’t party. next day not knowing what youthe easiest part of a life he years in the bigs. with 32 home runs and 100 RBI He understands how fortu-did the night before. All the bad struggles to live every day. The best player in baseball in the regular season. 

nate he’s been, and he doesn’t consequences greatly outweigh By now it’s become a routine, has just really started to play. The temptations, though, shy from talking about it. In a that little bit of feeling good.”

because a routine makes it that “I think that we might not remain. Hamilton had a relapse way, it’s a form of therapy. Hamilton’s teammates respectmuch harder to stray. For a give him enough credit for what in a bar in January of last year “I feel very blessed because a his battle so much they sur­baseball player, the temptations he has accomplished in a short that came to light months later lot of folks don’t get second prised him by pulling out gingerof life can often be magnified by period of time,” Rangers presi-when embarrassing pictures chances,” Hamilton said. “Drug ale to spray on their slugger the temptations of the road. dent Nolan Ryan said before were posted online. 
and alcohol, they kill. That’s as when the Rangers beat the Rays “You don’t necessarily wake Game 2. “The scouts are telling He doesn’t go out much now simple as it gets. You know to open the playoffs. If the up in the morning and think everybody, don’t let Josh and, when he does, carries little what it feels like to get high or Rangers win, he’ll almost surely about it — I’m not going to Hamilton beat you and don’t cash to reduce the chances he to drink. You know that little be the one leading them to the drink today or I’m not going to pitch to Josh Hamilton.” might head to a bar to spend it. 

glimpse of (how) good it is. But championship. 

NBA 



Spurs, Pacers face off in opening game 
122-109 victory on Wednesday Roy Hibbert led Indiana with the fourth. repeatedly said he wants to 
Associated Press 

night in the season opener for 28 points and Danny Granger Richard Jefferson opened the remain in San Antonio. 
If this is the last go-around for both teams. had 26. Darren Collison scored final quarter with a 3-pointer No longer among the NBA San Antonio’s Big Three, they San Antonio blew an early 19 points in his debut for the from the corner, and after Mike favorites, the Spurs are mindful got off to a familiar-looking double-digit lead and didn’t Pacers. Dunleavy missed two free of beating the teams they start together. shake off the Pacers for good “We went stagnant on throws that would have tied the should beat and not falling 
“I think we’re going to see until the fourth quarter. It came offense,” Granger said. “We game, Ginobili gave the Spurs behind early in the West. San that a lot this year,” said Spurs after what was apparently a froze.” momentum for good with Antonio labored out of the gate guard Tony Parker, beginning stern wake-up call about The Pacers, coming off a another 3-pointer. with an overhauled roster last the final season of his contract. defense from coach Gregg dreadful 32-win season, showed Ginobili was 5 of 9 from year and doesn’t want to be so 
The Spurs hope so. Popovich at halftime. promise before squandering a behind the 3-point line in a patient this time. 
Tim Duncan had 23 points “He was not really happy,” close game. They erased an familiar Big Three-led win for “All three played pretty well and 12 rebounds, Manu Ginobili Parker said. “I’ll leave it at early 10-point deficit thanks to the Spurs. How much longer the for the first game of the sea-scored 22 points and Parker that.” Hibbert, who was 10 of 17 from championship trio will be son,” Ginobili said. “And when had 20, pushing the Spurs past Added Duncan, “We don’t the field, and carried a slim together is in doubt with that happens, everything a shaky defensive performance want to give up 100-plus every lead late into the third. Parker’s contract situation, becomes better.” Collison was 7 and the Indiana Pacers in a night.” But the Spurs pulled away in though the star point guard has of 13 and had seven assists. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

House for sale on Angela. 2.5K sq IRISH CORNER APARTMENTS If you or someone you care about Dwight: I pick up day laborers and 
ft home. 4BR 3.5BA. Furniture ?, New upscale apts. Less than 1 mi has been sexually assaulted, we tell them they’ll get paid at six p.m.FOR SALE fully redone. $365K 574-232-2211 from ND, next to Taco Bell on PERSONAL can help. For more information, visit At five forty five, a certain INS agent 
——————————————— SR933. Fully furnished apts w/gran-Notre Dame’s website: by the name of Mose Schrute Chess Lessons: USCF and FIDE ite countertops, GE appliances UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don’t http://csap.nd.edu.v throws them in the back of a van, (International Chess Federation) w/dishwasher. go it alone. Notre Dame has many ——————————————— drops them off in the middle of Master, 2010 Indiana State Chess resources in place to assist you. If Harrisburg and tells them it’s 
FOR RENT 

Champion and coach of 1997/8 K-8 Each has 2bd/2bath. Mstr. bdrm you or someone you love needs Canada. National Championship team w/walkin closet. No water/sewer bill. confidential support or assistance, Missy, Lisa, Gabby, Rachel, and Dwight: Now that I own the building, Dennis Monokroussos is offering River house for rent. 3BR 2BA with $1000/mo starting. Call JSK please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 Taylor: “It’s an inside joke with I’m looking for new sources of rev-lessons to players of all ages and river frontage. 10 miles east of ND Development 574-387-4466. or Ann Firth at 1-2685. myself.” Hope that means its a enue. And a daycare center... Ha levels (local and online). on Jefferson. ——————————————— good day. Dwight quotes for you. ha ha [laughing maniacally] Well I 
AVAILABLE NOW 4BD/2BA HOME For more information, visit ND’s Also...keep up the good work at guess it’s not an evil idea. It’s just a Please contact historicchess@com-Grad student preferred. $1170 574-FOR RENT. 1.5 miles from ND 574-website at: http://pregnancysup-being awesome people. regular idea. But there is no good cast.net for rates and information. 255-0322 876-6333 port@nd.edu. laugh for a regular idea. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
MLB 




Guillen involved in shipments of illegal drugs 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — San Francisco Giants outfielder Jose Guillen, left off the team’s postsea­son roster, is linked to a federal investigation into shipments of performance-enhancing drugs, The New York Times reported on its website Thursday night. 
The story, citing several uniden­tified lawyers, said federal authori­ties told Major League Baseball they were looking into shipments of human growth hormone, allegedly sent to Guillen’s wife in the Bay Area. 
That was just before the post­season began, The Times said. Guillen was left off the Giants’ ros­ter for all three rounds because of a nagging neck injury, according to manager Bruce Bochy. 
A person in Major League Baseball confirmed the investiga­tion to The Associated Press. The person spoke on condition of anonymity because the probe was 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles prep for MIAA championship event 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Sports Writer 
The Belles hope to conquer their division foes and secure their best conference finish in program history at the MIAA Championships this weekend. 
Saint Mary’s currently sits in third place in the MIAA, and will face Calvin, Hope, Adrian, Albion, Alma, Kalamazoo, Trine and Olivet. 
The Belles enter the race fresh off a second-place fin­ish at the Manchester Invitational two weeks ago. Manchester College edged Saint Mary’s by just seven points. Though they were unable to win, the Belles set 12 new personal records. 
The team will turn to sen­iors Julia Kenney and Catie Salyer, junior Joanne Almond and sophomore Emma Baker 
— 
the top four runners from the Manchester Invitational 

— 
to lead them to a win. At Manchester, Kenney finished third overall with a time of 


23:09. Almond finished sixth at 23:34. Baker and Salyer were neck and neck to secure the ninth and tenth places at 24:08 and 24:09, respective­ly. 
Belles coach Jacqueline Bauters said that the Manchester Invitational was one of the team’s best per­formances of the season. With the Belles well prepared physically, she is now focused on preparing them mentally for the MIAA Championships. 
“Really, this past week was a lot of making sure we’re healthy and mentally focused on what we are going out to achieve,” Bauters said. “The team has, in my opinion, put together a memorable season thus far and I’d really like to see them cap it off with some real success in our MIAA competition.” 
She said a hallmark of the Belles game has been their camaraderie and teamwork. 
“We work a lot on working together and hopefully that will carry over come race time for some great out ­comes,” Bauters said. 
The Belles head to host Calvin College Saturday for the 2010 MIAA Championships. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 

ongoing. 
“I don’t know anything about it and right now I don’t have a com­ment,” Bochy said. 
Jay Reisinger, Guillen’s attorney, also declined comment in an e­mail. San Francisco beat the Texas Rangers 9-0 on Thursday night for a 2-0 lead in the World Series. 
Guillen’s teammates were sur­prised to learn of the investigation. 
“Hmmm, I never heard about it,” Eugenio Velez said. “Wow.” 
Pablo Sandoval also had no knowledge of Guillen’s situation and would not comment. 
It was a bit of a surprise when Guillen wasn’t included on the Giants’ roster for their first playoff series against Atlanta. And while other players who were left off — including $126 million pitcher Barry Zito — have been around throughout the team’s October run, Guillen has been curiously absent. 
Hitting coach Hensley Meulens said he hadn’t been in contact with Guillen since the playoffs began. 
“I have no clue, no idea,” Meulens said upon being told of the investigation. 
The 34-year-old Guillen has been tied to performance-enhanc­ing drugs before. The San Francisco Chronicle reported in 2007 that he allegedly purchased more than $19,000 worth of HGH, steroids and other drugs from the Palm Beach Rejuvenation Center between May 2002 and June 2005. 





SMC SWIMMING & DIVING 


Saint Mary’s hosts dual meet 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 

Saint Mary’s hosts its annual home meet this afternoon at the Rolfs Aquatic Center at Notre Dame with Wabash and MIAA foe Kalamazoo coming to town. 
The Belles are coming off two strong finishes in their first two contests of the sea­son. 
Saint Mary’s opened the season at the Dennis Stark Relays hosted by Notre Dame, where the Belles finished in fourth place out of 112 teams behind three Division I teams 
— Notre Dame, Illinois State, and Valparaiso. 
In the Relays, the Belles had three third-place finishes, including the 400-yard med­ley relay, 400-yard backstroke relay and the 400-yard free relay. Junior Tina Koswenda also finished third in the com­bination diving event. 
The Belles next competed in the MIAA Relays, a non-scor­ing event. 
The Belles had their top fin­ish in the 3x500-yard free relay with sophomore Liz Palmer and juniors Audrey Dalrymple and Megan Price taking fifth place in the event. 
The Belles also took sixth place in four events that day, including the 200-yard back­stroke, breaststroke and but­terfly relays, as well as the 400-meter medley relay. 
The 200-yard butterfly relay team consisted of Dalrymple freshman Genevieve Spittler, sophomore Liz Litke and sophomore Katie Griffin. 
Last season against Kalamazoo, the Belles fell 180-107, but had some strong finishes including first place finishes by Dalrymple and sophomore Ellie Watson. 
Waston took first place in the 1000-and 500-yard free style events, while Griffin earned the top spot in the 100-yard breaststroke as well as the 100-yard butterfly events. 
Dalrymple took home first in the 200-yard breaststroke and the 200-yard individual med­ley events. Dalrymple took second in the 100-yard breaststroke behind Griffin. 
After this event the Belles will take almost a month off before they travel to the University of Chicago for its Invitational the weekend of Nov. 19-21. 

Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 




MEN’S INTERHALL 


Top seed Dillon to take on neighbor Fisher 
Alumni faces off against underdog Vermin after taking first loss; Experienced Sorin takes on young Morrissey squad 
notoriously physical defense has Carroll’s freshman quarterback 
By KELSEY MANNING, 

hassled all its opponents throughout Jake Gardner, along with freshman 

MEGAN GOLDEN, MATT 

the season, particularly its tough receiver and cornerback Bobby 
UNGER and MATT 

blitzing. Though Fisher has faced Dorman, who returned two inter-


DEFRANKS 

some struggles offensively, its last ceptions for touchdowns in the 
Sports Writers 

game against St. Ed’s saw great opening game, will look to continue improvement. the Vermin revival on Sunday. In 
There will be no neighborly love “Our offense started to click addition, junior running back Nick this Sunday as Fisher braves the against St. Ed’s,” senior captain Tammerine is another key to a vaunted defense of Dillon in the first Michael McMahon said. “The key on multi-faceted offensive attack. round of playoff games. Sunday will be having our offense Meanwhile, the No. 3 seeded 
As the regular season champion work like it did against [St. Ed’s].” Dawgs (3-1) have come back from a of not only the Green League but As a team that has not earned a down year in 2009, due largely to a also all of interhall, No. 1-seed Dillon trip to the playoffs in three years, strong core group of juniors taking has been consistently dominant Fisher is approaching Sunday’s leadership roles including junior throughout the season, with game with enthusiasm and confi-captain and running back Dan increasing victory margins of 8, 8, dence. Dansdill. 19, and 29. Dillon’s methodical pass-“[Dillon] is the number one seed A Dawgs’ defense that surren­ing game, especially the combina-but we’re not going to be scared by dered a mere 14 points in four regu­tion of freshman quarterback Kevin them,” McMahon said. “We’re excit-lar season games will look to count-Fink and sophomore wide receiver ed and we’re not holding anything er the Carroll attack. tice.” against Stanford this weekend, Will Salvi, has been the cornerstone back because it’s playoff time. We’re “We’re running the same defense The two strong squads will face more than a mere playoff game will of the Big Red’s offense. The duo has happy to be back [in the playoffs] we did in 2009, but leadership com-off Sunday at 1 p.m. at Riehle Fields. ride in the balance. With a success-been known to remain on the field and I think we’re peaking at the bined with strong freshman and ful playoff run – which begins late after practice, and their effort right time.” sophomore editions have led to bet-Sorin vs. Morrissey against the Griffins – Siegfried can showed throughout the regular sea-With the possibility of a major ter execution,” Dansdill said. No. 2 seed Sorin and No. 7 seed establish itself as a dynasty. son. upset looming, Fisher will take on On offense, the Dawgs run the Morrissey face off this weekend as The No. 5 Ramblers (3-1) bring in 
“[Fink and Salvi] play really well Dillon Sunday at 1 p.m. triple option attack behind junior the Manor attempts to pull off a first with them the top defense in the together,” senior captain Jordan running backs Barrick Bollman and round upset and advance to the sec-men’s league, giving up just over 3 Smith said. “We’ll definitely take our Alumni vs. Carroll Dansdill, but freshman quarterback ond round of the playoffs. points per game. After pitching shots downfield and if it keeps The little dorm that could will Will Cronin can also throw the occa-Junior wide receiver Bobby shutouts in their first two games, the working we’ll keep going to it.” begin their march to the Stadium sional pass. Sullivan said the Otters (3-1) have Siegfried defense has allowed all 
The Big Red’s defense has also this Sunday as Carroll will begin Both teams enter the game with been training all week in prepara-their points in the past two games, proved formidable throughout the their playoff schedule against one of sour tastes in their mouths from tion for their battle against the including a loss to Alumni. year. Coming off a shutout of the most impressive teams of the losses to end the regular season. Manor (2-2). No. 4 Stanford (3-1), on the other Keough last week, the Dillon 2010 season in Alumni Previously winless Knott upset “We all stayed here last week to hand, thrives on offense. The defense looks to keep up the intensi-The No. 6 seeded Vermin (3-1) Alumni in an 8-0 shutout, which get ready for this. We did a lot of Griffins, led by senior quarterback ty. completed an unlikely march to the was largely a meaningless game for pool workouts underwater with a and captain Tony Rizzo and junior 
“Defensively we want to build off playoffs behind a team with a roster the Dawgs with a playoff spot in weighted ball,” Sullivan said. “So wide receiver Griffin Naylor, aver-of last weeks game,” Smith said. composed of more than one-half hand. basically we’re just hoping we can age just under 16 points a game. “Defense came out really intense, freshmen players. Carroll’s new phi-Carroll, meanwhile, was blown stay afloat on Sunday.” “We’re going to stick with what flying around, hitting hard, celebrat-losophy of hard work and youth has out 20-2 by No. 2 seeded Sorin, who Sorin receiver Ryan Robinson said we’ve been doing all season long,” ing after plays, and that’s what we them in position to upset some big-easily proved to be the Vermin’s he heard the Manorites have also Rizzo said. “We really only struggled want.” ger dorms in the postseason. toughest regular season test. been busy in the weight room this in one game all season so we’re 
Though Dillon’s strength on both “Good commitment to practices “We took [the loss] with a grain of week in hopes of upsetting Sorin. keeping with our general strategy.” sides of the ball is undeniable, No. 8 and a solid work ethic has made a salt,” Marrero said. “But at the “I heard they’ve been doing a lot Naylor is the main playmaker on Fisher does not intend to go down big difference this year,” sophomore same time we used it to improve of weightlifting and stuff,” he said. offense and came up big last week without a fight. The Green Wave’s captain Keith Marrero said. some of our weaknesses in prac-Morrissey is anticipating strong with a touchdown catch and a big 
performances by their freshmen. snag on a key fourth-down play. 
“Early in the season we switched “He’s a big player for us but I from a 4-3 to a 3-4, and that was a think we have a lot of big playmak­big switch for us because we’re a ers,” Rizzo said. young team with a lot of quick kids Siegfried senior left tackle and who can hit hard,” Morrissey junior captain Michael McDonnell, howev­linebacker Tommy Montalbano er, believes in his strong defense, led said. by senior defensive lineman Pat 
Sullivan, though, said the Otters Kelly. were only aware of one young “We’ve made a few personnel and Manorite, and they weren’t even scheme changes,” McDonnell said. sure of his exact identity. “We are well aware of how potent 
“We hear that they have a pretty [the] Stanford [offense] is and think good freshman,” Sullivan said. “We our hard work and time in practice don’t know what position he plays, can help us finally stop them.” but they’ve been letting freshmen do Although the Ramblers are the the talking.” two-time defending champions, this 
The Otters’ special teams unit is team has its own identity. due for a dominant performance “We’re a different team than the with two exceptional kickers ready last couple years,” McDonnell, who to lead the team. will be seeking to end his career 
“Special teams is going to carry with three straight titles, said. “We Sorin all the way to the stadium,” have a few guys back with experi­sophomore kicker Connor Wathen ence but we have our own identity.” said. “It’s all about the kicking game. While this will be the first official They’ve got two great kickers, playoff game for both teams, each [myself] and [senior] Michael played in seemingly must-win Browder.” games last week in order to secure 
Morrissey is not studying the their spot in the playoffs. Siegfried scouting report on Sorin, however, knocked off Morrissey while because their only concern is their Stanford shut out O’Neill. own performance. “It gave us a lot of confidence to 
"We don’t know a whole lot about win that game,” Rizzo said. “I’m Sorin, but our business is to know happy we bounced back and now about Morrissey,” Montalbano said. we want to prove that loss [to Dillon] “I think we know what we’ve got, was just a bad game.” and we’re feeling pretty good going When Stanford’s unstoppable into Sunday.” force meets Siegfried’s immovable 
Morrissey also has not forgotten object, sparks are sure to fly. Kick off about their former teammate who is is set for Sunday at 2 p.m. at Riehle currently playing for Sorin. Fields. 
“There’s an ex-Morrissey Manor­ite on Sorin,” sophomore safety and Contact Kelsey Manning at captain Alex Oloriz said. “We’ll be kmannin3@nd.edu, looking for him.” Megan Golden at 
The Otters and the Manor will mgolde01@saintmarys.edu, face off Sunday at 2 p.m. at Riehle Matt Unger at Fields. munger3@nd.edu, 

and Stanford vs. Siegfried Matt Defranks at When Siegfried takes the field mdefrank@nd.edu 





WOMEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 



Cavanaugh squares off with wild card McGlinn 
Farley and Pangborn meet in offensive battle; top-seeded Howard seeks a repeat after undefeated regular season 
playoffs is a reminder that you ing them very seriously.” at full force after a strong regu-attack of Lewis with their ball-
By JOSEPH MONARDO, 

can’t take any team lightly.” The Whirlwinds (2-2) secured lar season. hawking defense. 

LAUTA COLETTI, JACK 

Pangborn senior captain the last playoff spot in a pres-“We, like every one else, are “We have had an interception 
HEFFERON and DAVID 

Gabby Tate is eager to show sure-packed 20-12 win over coming off fall break, but we in every game so far this sea-


KENNEY 

that her team has what it takes Ryan last week. That win was have had some good practices son,” Koerbel said. “We want 
Sports Writers 

to play in Notre Dame Stadium the culmination of an improba-this week,” Koerbel said. “We more in this game. We want to for the championship. Last ble turnaround for Welsh are not going to underestimate keep consistent pressure on 
As No. 3-seed Cavanaugh year, the Phoxes suffered a dis-Family, which suffered a string Lewis. We know they are a Lewis’s quarterback.” carries its perfect record into appointing loss to Pasquerilla of injuries in its first game and good team.” Lewis is also confident in the playoffs, an underdog No. West in the semi-final game, was forced to forfeit its second. Lewis, led by senior defensive their defensive prospects in the 6-seed McGlinn team will rely falling just short of this goal. The next week, they were able lineman Sarah Ceponis and upcoming matchup. on its experienced offense to “Ever since the beginning of to field a team and went on to senior cornerback Mary “We have a lot of new faces provide the spark needed to the year, we have ended every two close wins over Walsh and McKeever, is excited to see on defense this year, but every-pull off the first round upset. practice by putting our hands Ryan. After the rough start, what noise it can make in the one has come together and we 
Cavanaugh (4-0) steamrolled together and shouting ‘stadi-they now sit just three wins playoffs. are very confident defensively,” through its division in the regu-um’,” Tate said. “Playing in from a championship. “As the wild card, we realize Ceponis said. lar season. The Chaos compiled [Notre Dame] Stadium has been “The first couple of games our reputation is not as strong Both teams hope to keep a 42-point differential en route a dream of mine ever since I were frustrating, but we had theirs, but we are excited to their seasons alive an advance to a perfect record. To ensure first heard about interhall flag confidence that we could get show them, and everyone else to the next level in their their continued success, the football on my campus tour as through it,” Whirlwinds senior what we can do,” Ceponis said. respective quests to conquer Chaos don’t feel the need to a high school senior. If we play captain Cari Pick said. “Now Offensively, Lewis is led by the playoffs and ultimately overhaul their playbook or style each playoff game like I know that we have that momentum, sophomore quarterback reach Notre Dame Stadium. of play, but instead turn their we can, we fully expect to play we feel we should be able to Connaught Blood and freshman Pasquerilla West and Lewis attention to the little things. in the championship.” keep it going.” wide receiver Colleen Haller. face off this Sunday at 4 p.m. 
“We are just trying to fine-Both teams are preparing While the odds may seem “Blood has been making cru­tune all of our plays and get vigorously, hosting extra prac-long, Pick doesn’t think her cial plays for us all season,” Contact Joseph Monardo at our execution down,” senior tices this week and developing squad is done just yet. Ceponis said. “When Blood jmonardo@nd.edu, Laura wide receiver Holly Hinz said. new offensive and defensive “We’re expecting Howard to finds Haller on the field, good Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu, Jack “Try to not really put anything schemes based on the opposi-be tough, but we’ve been work-things happen for us.” Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu new in, just try and perfect tion. ing well as a team in practice,” Pasquerilla West hopes to and David Kenney at what we have.” “We will be having an intense Pick said. “We think we’re up counter the dangerous passing dkenney1@nd.edu 
The biggest change that practice on Thursday because to the challenge.” Cavanaugh will face in the we want to give Farley every-The quarterfinal showdown playoffs, Hinz said, is playing thing we got,” Tate said. “Our will take place 1 p.m. Sunday. teams that they haven’t seen coaches scouted Farley and we before. The Chaos will face are working on some new plays Pasquerilla West vs. Lewis such a team this week, as they based on their defense and our This Sunday No. 1-seed will line up against an experi-defense is working on ways to Pasquerilla West seeks to enced McGlinn (2-2) squad for stop Farley's versatile quarter-advance in the playoffs against the first time this year. back.” wild card No. 7-seed Lewis. 
“We have a lot of seniors and The Finest will be looking to Both teams are confident going juniors on the team,” McGlinn their tough defense to once into their first playoff game senior cornerback Caitlin again perform and hold coming off victories in their Carlin said. “I think it’s going to Pangborn in check. regular season finales. help us in the playoffs, having “I think our greatest strength The Pyros, led by senior cap-been there before. Playoffs are is with our defense being able tain Libby Koerbel, hope to a different level game-wise, so to limit the amount of points keep their momentum moving the upperclassmen and their that are scored on us and leadership are going to be help-allowing the offense more ful for the younger girls on the chances for possessions,” team.” Casanova said. 
The Shamrocks made the The game will take place at 2 playoffs despite a four-point p.m. Sunday. negative differential in the reg­ular season, but they won’t let Howard vs. Welsh Family any regular season struggles No. 1-seed Howard will look affect their playoff goals. to continue its regular season 
“The championship game and dominance, while No. 8-seed winning the championship Welsh Family is looking to build would be our goal,” Carlin said. on newfound momentum and 
Still, McGlinn realizes that it pull off the upset when the two has a long way to go and a lot sides clash this Sunday. to prove before they get a shot The Ducks (4-0) have cruised at the championship. through Blue League play, win­
“We are just focusing on ning all four of their games by Cavanaugh for the first week an average margin of 20 points. and going from there,” Carlin Last week, they beat said. Pasquerilla East 26-0, clinching 
Cavanaugh is also taking its the top seed in the process. road to the Stadium one game Even more encouraging for at a time, as it is careful not to senior captain Kayla Bishop is overlook McGlinn in the first that Howard is playing its best round. football when it counts. 
“I think just coming out with “It felt really good to keep intensity now that its playoff progressing last week,” Bishop time [is key],” Hinz said. “It’s said. really anything can happen, Bishop is especially pleased any team can win. We just have with her defense, which has to make sure, when we come given up only 13 points all year. out, that we are ready to play.” “Our defense has really 
Cavanaugh and McGlinn will stepped up individually,” face off at 3 p.m. Sunday. Bishop said. “We’ve done a great job of covering our Farley vs. Pangborn receivers and getting pressure 
No. 4-seed Farley will take on on the quarterback.” No. 5-seed Pangborn this The Ducks can only hope that Sunday in the first round of the this year’s playoff run is as suc­playoffs. cessful as last year’s, when 
The Finest (3-1) and the they capped an undefeated sea-Phoxes (3-1) both understand son with a win in the champi­what it means to make the onship game over Pasquerilla playoffs in such a competitive West. league. “Going to the stadium last 
“Making it to playoffs means year was such a cool experi­that you have to show up ready ence, especially for a dorm as to play your very best and small as Howard,” Bishop said. expect the other team to do the “That said, we expect Welsh same,” Farley senior captain Family to come out and play Molly Casanova said. “Entering with a lot of heart. We’re tak­




ND WOMEN’S GOLF 



Squad competes in Texas tourney 


By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
With a sixth-place finish against some of the top teams in the nation at their last event, the No. 18 Irish have had a successful fall season, which they will try to continue Sunday and early next week as they travel to San Antonio for the Alamo Invitational. 
The Irish had one of their top fin­ishes of the 2009-10 season last year at the Alamo, where then-senior Annie Brophy tied for first place and Notre Dame finished tied for second of 12 teams with a final team round of 292. In hopes of repeating that result this season, the team has been working on its own weaknesses. 
“The team and I have been working on what we thought we needed to work on based on our performance last weekend,” senior So-Hyun Park said. “Each of us had different areas to work on so we’ve been focusing to practice on those areas.” 
The successful results have con­tinued this fall as the Irish have taken the title in two of their four contests. Notre Dame defeated 10 teams, including rivals Michigan State and Kent State, at the Michigan State Mary Fossum Invite to commence the season on Sept. 26, and followed up the victory with another over 12 teams host­ing the William K. Warren Invite on Oct. 2-3. 
Notre Dame placed fifth out of 15 schools at the Mercedes-Benz Collegiate Championship in Knoxville, Tenn. earlier this month, and most recently performed well at the Landfall Tradition Invite at the Dye Golf Course in Wilmington, 
N.C. The Irish carded their best round of the tournament on the final day of play on Oct. 24, posting an 8-over round of 296. The total was also the lowest of all 18 teams for the day, and launched the team from their seventh-place spot after Day 2 to sixth after a three-round total of 896. No. 5 UCLA won the tournament with a final score of 880. 
Junior Becca Huffer led for Notre Dame with a sixth-place individual finish after a third-round mark of 73, and a 54-hole total of 218. She was one stroke behind the fifth-place finisher from North Carolina. In her first two seasons on the Irish squad, Huffer has become the pro­gram’s all-time leader in career stroke average with a 75.24 in 63 rounds of play. 
The team’s two freshmen, Nicole Zhang and Kristina Nhim were also central to Notre Dame’s sixth-place finish. Zhang tied for 17th individually, and Nhim tied for 26th. Seniors Park and Katie Conway rounded out the Irish scoring effort with rounds of 75 and 74, respectively, to finish Day 3. 
Notre Dame will face 13 teams at the University of Texas at San Antonio event, held at the Briggs Ranch Golf Club. Among the com­petitors will be No. 13 Tulane, No. 17 Colorado, TCU and Texas A&M. 
“I think we have a great chance to win this tournament if we just play like we've been playing so far,” Park said. “We've been very consistent throughout the semester so if we can keep posting low scores, we can bring the trophy home.” 
A practice round will begin on Saturday at 9:30 a.m. and the first round will tee off at 11 a.m. on Sunday. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 



SMC SWIMMING 

Saint Mary’s hosts Kalamazoo and Wabash 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s hosts its annual home meet this afternoon at the Rolfs Aquatic Center at Notre Dame with Wabash and MIAA foe Kalamazoo coming to town. 
The Belles are coming off two strong finishes in their first two contests of the season. 
Saint Mary’s opened the season at the Dennis Stark Relays hosted by Notre Dame, where the Belles finished in fourth place out of 112 teams behind three Division I teams — Notre Dame, Illinois State, and Valparaiso. 
In the Relays, the Belles had three third-place finishes, includ­ing the 400 medley relay, 400 backstroke relay and the 400 free relay. Junior Tina Koswenda also finished third in the combination diving event. 
The Belles next competed in the MIAA Relays, a non-scoring event. 
The Belles had their top finish in the 3x500 free relay with sopho­more Liz Palmer and juniors Audrey Dalrymple and Megan Price taking fifth place in the event. 
The Belles also took sixth place in four events that day, including the 200 backstroke, breaststroke and butterfly relays, as well as the 400 medley relay. 
The 200 butterfly relay team consisted of Dalrymple freshman Genevieve Spittler, sophomore Liz Litke and sophomore Katie Griffin. 
Last season against Kalamazoo, the Belles fell 180-107, but had some strong finishes including first place finishes by Dalrymple and sophomore Ellie Watson. 
Waston took first place in the 1000 and 500 free style events, while Griffin earned the top spot in the 100 breaststroke as well as the 100 butterfly events. 
Dalrymple took home first in the 200 breaststroke and the 200 indi­vidual medley events. Dalrymple took second in the 100 breast­stroke behind Griffin. 
After this event the Belles will take almost a month off before they travel to the University of Chicago for its Invitational the weekend of Nov. 19-21. 

Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 




ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 


Irish travel to East Lansing for meet 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will look to protect its perfect record in the pool against Michigan State when the Irish travel to East Lansing, Mich., today. 
The Irish (0-2), who are looking to rebound from losses at a three-team meet to LSU and Auburn last weekend, are 6-0 all time against the Spartans. 
Senior All-American Samantha Maxwell was one of only two Notre Dame swimmers to earn a victory at Auburn. She said she believed a focus on fundamentals has left the team much improved since their SEC showdown last weekend. 
“Our team has really focused on cleaning up some of the mechan­ics of our races,” Maxwell said. “This week we have specifically worked on starts, turns and underwater kicking. We are look­ing forward to and getting the chance to showcase these improvements.” 
Making these improvements in practice, however, has not been an easy task for the Irish. Many setbacks have tested the team, but Maxwell said the team has admirably persevered, and says that the squad is in good position heading into Michigan State. 
“We have been facing sickness and injury but are continuing to train through it and to train with purpose,” she said. “This is the time during the season that the girls on our team really show how tough they are.” 
Maxwell said a victory at Michigan State would require a full team effort. This means not only do the swimmers need to have a strong showing, but the divers must also be sharp. 
“Our divers have been putting in a tremendous amount of time on the boards which is great because they are critical point scorers for our team as well,” she said. 
Maxwell said she was excited for the team to compete against a Big Ten opponent and believes that the meet will be tightly con­tested. 
“We have a great opportunity to head to East Lansing and race a Big Ten school in their own envi­ronment,” she said. “Both teams are going to be putting up a fight to get a win and it's going to pro­vide an atmosphere for some hon­est racing at this point in the sea­son.” 
The meet will begin at 5 p.m. on Friday at the McCaffre Pool in East Lansing. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 



WOMEN’S ROWING 

Rowers to face off against Tulsa 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 

After finishing third at their first event of the fall season at the Head of the Rock Regatta in Rockford, Ill., the Irish are shooting to top Tulsa on the Saint Joseph River during Friday and Saturday’s dual meet. 
After a brief layoff due to fall break, Notre Dame coach Martin Stone said his team is anxious to compete. 
“There was a little rust earlier in the week, but I saw today we were ready to go,” he said. 
In any sport, competing on familiar territory usually aids the home team, and collegiate rowing is no different, Stone said. 
“It’s like a time trial; you’re racing against the clock,” Stone said. “We practice every day on our course and we know how fast it takes to get to certain points.” 
However, Stone said the Irish will not be taking the Golden Hurricane lightly, especially given their performance at the Head of the Oklahoma Regatta three weeks ago, where Tulsa advanced seven boats to the finals. 
“I know that they’ve raced very well,” Stone said. “They put up some good times at the Head of the Oklahoma.” 
Friday’s action will consist of head races between eight-man boats, so each shell will begin the race in 10-15 second inter­vals and row in one direction. 
Saturday morning, four-man boats will compete in a stake race, which employs the same staggered start but requires the shells to race to a point, turn around, and race back. 
“Saturday is a little more tricky,” Stone said. “It requires stopping and spinning the boat around a buoy.” 
Stone said he hoped Irish fans would come cheer on the team on its home course. 
“The best place to come and watch on Saturday morning is down at the bridge by the farmer’s market,” Stone said. 
Friday’s races begin at 4:30 p.m., and Saturday’s will start at 10 a.m. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
expressed concerns about attendance at Alumni Stadium, especially by stu­dents. 
“The fans certainly are a plus. I know I’ve been con­cerned about the turnout of the students and such,” he said. “I hope we have [a good turnout] again, because that can be a huge help.” 
Notre Dame hosts Connecticut at 1 p.m. Sunday in Alumni Stadium. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 

Waldrum 
continued from page 28 

Louisville or Connecticut would have posed. 
“I really take the approach of coaching and worrying about our team instead of worrying about the other team,” Waldrum said. “We just really focus on being bet­ter at different phases of our game and not really worrying about who you’re playing.” 
The privilege of hosting the game may be a crucial advan­tage due simply to the comfort Notre Dame has not only in Alumni Stadium but around campus as well. 
“I’ve always said you want to be at home come playoff time,” Waldrum said. “It keeps your kids in the routine. It’s nice to be home and players can sleep in their own bed.” 
Waldrum also said he was looking for a large contingent of fan support on Sunday despite what may be adverse conditions. He had previously 


MEN’S SOCCER 

HoyagamemovedtoSunday 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The last home game of the 2010 season, originally sched­uled for Saturday against Georgetown, has been post­poned to Sunday at 6:00 p.m. An Irish victory over they Hoyas could give the Notre Dame a bye in the first round of next week’s Big East tournament. 
Georgetown’s game against Connecticut, originally sched­uled for Wednesday, was post­poned until Thursday night, which led to this weekend’s game being postponed. The Hoyas beat the Huskies 1-0 and clinched first place in their divi­sion. 
Though Georgetown’s victory on Thursday cost the Irish (8-4­4, 5-2-1) a shot at first place in the conference, a win over the Hoyas would grant them second place and send them directly to the tournament quarterfinals. 
“We had hoped this week was going to put us into a position where we could clinch the Big East, but since Georgetown (11­4-1, 7-1-0) beat Connecticut, we will be hoping to get second place in our division heading into the Big East Tournament,” Irish head coach Bobby Clark said. 
The Irish will attempt to break Georgetown’s current nine-game win streak. 
“That speaks volumes,” Clark said. “To win nine straight is impressive.” 
The Irish will welcome back a familiar face on Sunday, except this time, he’ll be watching the game from the other team’s bench. Georgetown head coach Brian Wiese played for Clark when he coached at Dartmouth. Wiese was an assistant coach for Clark for five years at Stanford, and continued on with Clark to Notre Dame for five more years before taking up his current job and Georgetown. 
“I’ve always hoped we would win the Big East, but if it’s going to go to someone else, I’m pretty glad it was Brian,” Clark said. 
Notre Dame is coming off a 3­2 win against Pittsburgh, in which junior midfielder Brendan King scored the game-winning goal in the 89th minute. 
The Irish are hoping keep the momentum going and earn a win for the seven seniors who the team will commemorate during their last home game of their collegiate soccer careers. 
“As the last official home game of the season, it is a very special time for all of our sen­iors,” Clark said. ”It was a good senior class, they’ve done extremely well. Hopefully they can do well in the tournament and take us far into the NCAAs. That’s the target at the moment.” 


Senior goalkeeper and team captain Phil Tuttle spent half the season out on the bench with a knee injury, and senior midfielder Jeb Brovsky also had a scare earlier in the season. Luckily, Clark and the Irish are boasting good overall team health heading into Sunday’s game. 
“In the moment, our health is good, and hopefully it stays that way,” Clark said. 
Kickoff is scheduled for 6:00 

p.m. Sunday at Notre Dame’s Alumni Stadium. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Team to run in Big Eastchampionshipmeet 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Sports Writer 
After strong races at the NCAA pre -National Meet, The Irish head to Syracuse Friday to face off against their conference rivals in the 2010 Big East championship. 
Both the Notre Dame women and the No. 23 men will race to improve upon their 
strong perform-“Jordan Carlson ran Dame ’s suc ­ances at last very well. It was his cess to a year ’s meet strong work 
best race since he’s 
against the ethic and a toughest Big been here at Notre positive East teams, Dame.” training atti­including tude. Georgetown, “ T h e y
Joe Piane
Syracuse, worked Louisville and Irish coach exceptionally 
Villanova. 
The Irish men are coming off a seventh-place finish at the pre -National Meet, where senior Dan Jackson finished 19th overall to lead the Irish. Jackson was followed by jun­ior Jordan Carlson, who fin­ished 31st, junior Jonathan Shawel in 55th, sophomore Jeremy Rae in 59th, and 
freshman Martin Grady in 61st. 
“Of course, Dan Jackson ran very well,” Irish men’s coach Joe Piane said. “Jordan Carlson ran very well. It was his best race since he’s been here at Notre Dame. The top five kids all ran very well.” 
For the women, senior Erica Watson finished sits on top 
“They worked excep­
at No. 17, 
tionally hard doing all while 
the the right things Georgetown follows at 
this year. They have a 
No. 21, 
tenacious work ethic.” 
Notre Dame at No. 23, Louisville 
Joe Piane 
at No. 28 
Irish coach 


64th to lead the Irish to 23rd place. Trailing Watson was freshman Meg Ryan in 92nd place, freshman Kelly Curan in 120th, sophomore Rebecca Tracy in 132nd and junior Rachel Velarde in 139th. 
The Irish have several Big East veterans returning for this year’s championships. The men finished sixth in 2009 with help from Jackson, Carlson and Shawel. Sophomore Jessica Rydberg returns for the Irish women. 
Piane said he was confi­dent in his team’s ability to perform tomorrow. 
“We had two very good weeks of training, ” Piane said. “We’re trying to get in some easy distance and to 
get some 
rest.” 
Piane cred­
ited Notre 
hard doing all the right things this 
year. They have a tenacious work ethic, ” Piane said. “They’re living the lifestyle. They’ve done a very good job of that.” 
The Big East champi ­onships feature five national­ly ranked men’s teams and four women’s teams. For the men, Sy racuse currently 
and 
Villanova at 
No. 29. 
Villanova is ranked No. 1 for women, with Georgetown at No. 5, Syracuse at No. 8 and Providence at No. 13. 
Piane said he believed the meet would come down to a six-team race between the Irish, Syracuse, Georgetown, Louisville, Villanova and Providence. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 


ND VOLLEYBALL 
St. John’s, UConn next up at Purcell 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will celebrate the holiday weekend by looking for a pair of victories as they host Big East opponents St. John’s and Connecticut, two teams that they have easily defeated in seasons past. To repeat that trend and not let either the Red Storm or the Huskies have their way, Notre Dame (13-9, 6­3 Big East) knows it has to stick to its highlights for the Irish as three players recorded dou­ble -double performances. Freshman Andrea McHugh led the team with 19 kills and 10 digs, and was followed close behind by junior Kristen Dealy’s 14 kills and 14 digs, as well as freshman Sammie Brown’s 56 assists and 12 digs. Junior libero Frenchy Silva also posted double-digit digs with 12 and senior Kellie Sciacca had 12 kills and six 
blocks. 
“One of our 
most recent 
themes in 
game plan. “One of our most practice has “For this been consis ­
recent themes in
weekend we're tency,” Puente 
practice has been
really excited said. “We're about having consistency.” trying to two new oppo-emphasize the nents that we importance of 
Angela Puente
know will pose playing at the 
Irish co-captain
a threat but same high 
also we can take care of as long as we're on our game,” senior co -captain Angela Puente said. 
Consistently staying on their game has been a challenge for the Irish in recent match­es, who have lost four of their last six contests, all to confer­ence rivals. In comparison to the team’s conference season last year, when they went undefeated, this seems shock­ing, but lacking six seniors who graduated last year has led to some changes. 
The last two games have showed a much revitalized Notre Dame team, however, as the Irish defeated Syracuse 3-0 on Oct. 23, and battled with Marquette through five sets before falling 3-2 on Oct. 24. 
The Golden Eagles victory over Notre Dame was another loss but not one without a few level through­
out a match, and the entire weekend, 
instead of allowing those ups and downs.” 
While focusing on consis­tency in the execution of the game plan, the Irish aren’t letting the holiday spirit pass them by as they compete on their home court and have a little fun. 
“On past Halloweens we've sometimes dressed up when we're traveling, but this year I am bringing Halloween rib­bons for everyone to wear in their hair,” Puente said. “You may see some crazy hairdos.” 
Notre Dame will face St. John’s Saturday at 10 a.m. and Connecticut Sunday at 2 p.m., with both matches tak­ing place at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 




The Irish penalty -killing unit, a subject of much diffi-
Broncos 
culty in last year’s disap ­


continued from page 28 
and that will put pressure on anybody,” he said. “It’s going to be important that we learn to have consisten­cy.” 
In addition, the wounds from last year ’s trip to Kalamazoo are still raw, when the Irish were blown out in back-to-back games by the scores of 7-2 and 4-1. 
Lavin said the hostile environment 
of Western Mi chiga n ’s Lawson Arena will pose its own challenge. 
“As much as we want to forget about last year, we have to remember that we went into a place pointing campaign, was much improved in the win over Boston College and will continue to be of the utmost 
i m p o r t a n c e  a s  t h e  s e a s o n  
moves forward.  
“ I t ’s  j u s t  h a r d  w o r k , ”  

Lavin said. “The coaches are unbelievable at preparing us. It is almost second nature for us to go out and act on penalty kills.” 
The 
“The coaches are unbelievable at 
preparing us. It is almost second nature for us to go out and act on penalty kills.” 
Joe Lavin Irish captain 
like Lawson Arena ... and we didn ’t play too well, ” Lavin said. 
Jackson said he was inter­ested to see how his team plays outside of the friendly confines of the Joyce Center, as Saturday’s game will be the first true road test of the regular season for the Irish. 
“Playing on the road isn’t something that everybody on the team has had the oppor­tunity to display how they’ll respond,” he said. “How we respond to that is going to be crucial.” 
contests against 
Western Michigan, especiall y Saturday’s road date, will prove as the beginning of a trying stretch for Notre Dame ’s new ­found gritti ­ness. 
“We have a much better work ethic. We are physical, we are gritti­
er,” Jackson said. “I think our conference is going to be tougher, so we are going to have some really tough games coming up in the next few weeks. Lawson’s a tough building.” 
Western Michigan visits the Joyce Center Friday night and then hosts the Irish Saturday night in Kalamazoo. Both games are scheduled to begin at 7:35 p.m. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  
12  13  
14  15  
16  17  
18  19  20  
21  22  23  24  
25  26  27  28  
29  30  
31  32  33  34  35  36  37  38  
39  40  41  42  
43  44  45  46  
47  48  49  
50  51  
52  
53  

Friday, October 29, 2010 page 27
The Observer . TODAY 
CROSSWORD 
Across 301971 Tony-
winning actress 
1 Construction 
___Allen
zone sign 31Atlanta-based 
12Band pieces 
org.
14Jean Rhys opus 
34She quipped 
16Psychoanalyst 
“I've been in 
Fromm 
more laps than a 17Affix securely napkin” 18Coroner's subj. 36Night that “Dynasty” aired 
19Deli option 
for most of its 
20Performed as a 
run: Abbr. 
minstrel, maybe 
39Curse out 
21Ones doing lab 
41___ de Noyaux 
exams? 
(almond-flavored
22Ain't right? 
liqueur)24Dixie rival 
42Anathema 25Ball in a socket 43Line up 26Saw 45Slightly 28Big inits. in 46Island off the photography coast of Tuscany 29Possible IV 47Vague pusher 49God, with “the” 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

50Aid to researching 35­Downs by topic 
52Ganging up on, in basketball 
53What patients may need patience to get 
Down 
1 Throw off 2 Puts up 3 Knockout 4 Hagen of stage 
and screen 5 Carl Icahn or T. 
Boone Pickens 6 Attracts 7 September 
happenings, often 8 Tip preceder, maybe 9 Oil support 10Escapist reading? 11 Firedome and Fireflite 12David of “St. Elsewhere” 13“Black Beauty” author 14Hair extension 15Some choice words 19Touchdown locale 23Sideboard collection 

WILL SHORTZ 
EUGENIA LAST 
 OROSCOPE 

Puzzle by Mark Diehl 
26Peach 35Free cookie 42Get lost 
27Cannon, e.g.: distributor 
44Dog park noises Abbr. 36They sometimes 48Invader of Rome 
31First blond Bond create a scene 
in 390 B.C. 32Actor Mulroney 37Sportscaster Dick 49Credits date for 
of “The Wedding “Cinderella” or 
Date” 38“My pet” “All About Eve” 
33End of many a 40“My little” girl of driveway early TV 51___ de parfum 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&Tusers: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

HENRI ARNOLD

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLY 
JUMBLE
PLEASANDVILLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Friday, October 29, 2010 page 28 
‘It’s an opportunity to honor Declan’ 
Swarbrick: ‘We care about winning and losing here, but it doesn’t matter right now’ 
By SAM WERNER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will honor junior Declan Sullivan with helmet decals and a pregame moment of silence before its game Saturday against Tulsa, Director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick said in a press con­ference Thursday. 
Sullivan, a videographer for the football team, died Wednesday after the tower he was filming practice from col­lapsed. 
The University canceled its usual Friday football luncheon and pep rally. 
Swarbrick said the athletic department’s primary focus was the emotional well-being of the students and staff involved with the football program. 
“It’s the nature of this place and being part of the team,” he said. “Their response was emo­tional, and our focus is them and Declan. I’m not focused on … our performance on the field.” 
He said the University consid­ered postponing Saturday’s game. 
“Certainly we talked about it,” Swarbrick said. “You don’t just move forward without con­sidering all of that, and we had a discussion about whether we thought it appropriate to play the game as scheduled. We concluded that it was. We con­cluded that it was because it’s an opportunity to honor Declan.” 
While the game will continue as planned Saturday, Swarbrick said it would be dedicated to Sullivan’s memory. 
“In the extraordinary emo­tions that sort of overwhelmed me in the past almost 24 hours, thinking about how we’re going to do on Saturday is not one of them,” he said. “We care about winning and losing here, but it doesn’t matter right now.” 
Irish coach Brian Kelly and Notre Dame players will not be available to the media until after Saturday’s game. The University called off Kelly’s Thursday press conference and radio show. 
“[Kelly] is the head of that group of student-athletes and students,” Swarbrick said. “And we want him focused on them. 
“We’re going to leave the team and coaching staff to deal with this in a private manner through Saturday.” 
Swarbrick said he met with Kelly and the entire Irish coaching staff shortly after he received word of Sullivan’s death. In what he called an “emotional evening,” he tried to provide support to Kelly and the coaches. 
As a videographer, Sullivan was an important part of the Irish football program, Swarbrick said. 
“There is an intensity that attaches to the experience of being part of a team, part of an athletic program, and Declan was part of that program,” Swarbrick said. “So the sorrow is felt in many ways even 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
The No. 11/13 Irish will tackle the challenge of refo­cusing after taking down No. 1 Boston College a week ago when they face a home-and -home series against CCHA opponent Western Michigan this weekend. 
The Broncos (4-1-1, 0-0-0 CCHA) will visit the Joyce Center on Friday night and will host Notre Dame (4-1­0, 2-0-0) in Kalamazoo, Mich. on Saturday night. Irish senior captain Joe Lavin said he believed that his team has moved on from the high of taking down the top -ranked Eagles. 
“Everything’s pretty much in the rearview already,” he said. “Obviously you ’re going to try and reflect on a win like [Boston College] and take the positives and turn them into something that’s going to be consistent through every weekend.” 
Western Michigan will serve as a difficult measur­ing stick for those consis­tent positives, as the Broncos are off to a hot start, including three road wins in the past two week­ends. 
“They ’re playing very, very well, ” Lavin said. “They’re a great team and we just need to go into it knowing we can beat any-


PAT COVENEY/ The Observer Director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick addresses junior Declan Sullivan’s death during a press conference Thursday in the Eck Visitors Center. University President Fr. John Jenkins spoke before Swarbrick. 
greater.” “We’ll do our best under 
Swarbrick said the team these circumstances just to pre­would practice inside the Loftus pare our football team,” Sports Center Thursday and Swarbrick said. “But this isn’t Friday as the University’s inves-about the game so much as it is tigation of the cause of the acci-about the young man and mak­dent gets underway. ing sure that we take care of 
him and we honor him.” Notre Dame plays Tulsa at 
2:30 p.m. Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
HOCKEY 

Irish face Broncos in pair 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Big East tournament begins with Huskies 


By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
Having run the Big East regu­lar-season slate without suffer­ing a single loss, No. 3 Notre Dame will host Connecticut Sunday in the Big East Tournament quarterfinals. 
The Irish (15-2-2, 9-0-2 Big East) had a bye into the quar­terfinals, having earned the top seed in the tournament by virtue of their National Division title, while the Huskies (9-8-3, 4-5-2) defeated Louisville 3-0 Thursday night in the tourna­ment’s first round. 
The two schools last met on Oct. 15, when Notre Dame traveled to Storrs, Conn. and gave up a late goal on a free kick that allowed Connecticut to tie the match, which ended 1-1. A similar late breakdown in a recent game Georgetown had Irish coach Randy Waldrum concerned. 
“That was really a lack of concentration,” he said. “We switched off instead of keeping the switch on for the last four minutes.” 
Notre Dame struggled to con­vert attacks into shots on goal, something that Waldrum said the Irish cannot repeat if they are to advance in the tourna­ment. 
“We just didn’t score enough goals with the chances we cre­ated,” he said. “I don’t think we really tested their goalkeeper enough.” 
Husky senior midfielder Elise Fugowski will again be the pri­mary challenge for the Irish, as she created a number of prob­lems for Notre Dame in the teams’ last meeting. 
“[She] really created some problems running the ball out of midfield into the attack,” Waldrum said. “We’re going to have to do a much better job of handling her.” 
Because the Irish did not know who they were going to face until Thursday evening, they spent the week working on their own strengths and weaknesses rather than on the specific tactical challenges 
see WALDRUM/page 22 

body.” 
Irish coach Jeff Jackson said he saw the Broncos’ style of play as a threat that his squad will have to counter with consistency. 
“They play a real up ­tempo, up-pressure style, 
see BRONCOS/page 26 






