the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Lacrosse brings hope to Ugandan children 
Fields of Growth International, a non-profit organization, works to aid women and children afflicted by AIDS 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editor 
Playing lacrosse gives chil­dren in Uganda whose parents have been afflicted by AIDS one thing they can’t find any­where else — something to call their own. 
“They love playing lacrosse specifically because they all have their own stick when they get to play, and they don’t real­ly own anything,” said Kevin Dugan, Notre Dame’s director of men’s lacrosse operations at Notre Dame. “That is just an incredible experience for them because they‘re just not used to having something [that is their own.]” Children in Uganda have been able to play lacrosse and other sports since Dugan created Fields of Growth International, a non-profit organization that strives to facilitate develop­ment in Uganda. 
Notre Dame athletes, and particularly members of the men’s lacrosse team, work with the organization to empower both children and their parents in Uganda. 
“Lacrosse is certainly not the main priority in what we’re doing. The main priority is social entrepreneurism, AIDS education and real, grassroots village economic develop­ment,” said Dugan, a 2001 graduate of Notre Dame. “What we really want to do is be able to intersect the things that bring us passion and joy with the need in the world.” 
Sophomore lacrosse player Jake Brems will travel to Uganda this summer to intern with the organization. 
“I’m excited to get over there and be able to help other peo­ple. I’ve never done an inter­national service like this,” Brems said. 
Brems will study the effec­tiveness of the organization’s poultry-rearing project, which is meant to benefit women whose husbands have died from AIDS. 
“It’s a $500 project where we build a chicken coop. We buy about 100 young chicks and we buy the family the vaccina­tions they need to keep the chickens healthy,” Dugan said. “We buy them all the things they need to get the project up and running.” 
The family can then sell the eggs for profit or use them for familial nourishment, he said. 
Dugan said the organization will pilot the poultry-rearing project in May. 
“The woman is 31. She is 
see LACROSSE/page 11 





ND alum discusses work for Avatar 
By LIZ O’DONNELL 
News Writer 
Notre Dame alum Allan Hemberger told students who packed the DeBartolo Hall audi­torium Tuesday evening that the most enjoyable and difficult area of his career is working in visual effects. 
Hemberger discussed his expe­riences working in the field of feature films and the technical background that accompanied it. 
“Every time I come here, I try to summarize what I do and the answer changes each time,” he said. 
Hemberger, a 2001 graduate of Notre Dame, has worked for WETA Digital, a five-time Academy Award winning visual effects facility in New Zealand, for several years. He will start work at Pixar in May. 
“I spent the past year working on Avatar,” he said. “I carved out a niche at WETA as a person who loved working on really hard problems. It was a lot of headaches and long hours, but I liked having an area to work on.” 


University supports research initiatives 
By JOSEPH McMAHON 
Associate News Editor 
The University recently announced the administration will continue to push its goal of becoming one of the best research institutions in the world and announced an addi­tional $40 million of internal funding to support nine projects. 
“Doing research is fundamen­tal to the University,” Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves said. “The goal of the University is fairly simple — to be a source for good throughout the world. We do that through three ways: our undergraduate 
see RESEARCH/page 13 


Hemberger worked as comput­er graphics supervisor for the Academy Award-winning movie “Avatar” and as a 3D digital water technical director for “King Kong”. 
He began the presentation by showing students a demo reel he created while working as a com­puter graphics supervisor on the movie “The Day the Earth Stood Still.” 

“A lot of tricks that I learned on ‘The Day the Earth Stood Still’ transferred over into my work with ‘Avatar,’” he said. 
While working on “Avatar,” Hemberger said he was in charge of creating the graphics for the 
see AVATAR/page 10 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER New leprechaun chosen page3 Campus rapper Will Thwaites interview page16 Men’s lacrosse seeks win page32 Viewpoint page14 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Wednesday, April 28, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Ready? Absolutely 
Today my little brother is visiting cam­pus for the official Admissions Office information session and tour. 
I will admit that I selfishly hope my lit­tle brother chooses, like I did, to go to Notre Dame. Having a sibling on campus will help keep my connection to the Golden Dome a little stronger after I graduate in a little over two weeks. 
How I’ll deal with separation from campus and 


Aaron Steiner 
whether I’m even ready to graduate 

Senior Staff 
has been on my 

Writer 
mind this week. 

In a column last semester, I wrote that seniors were reg­ularly being asked, “What are you doing after graduation?” That question is being avoided now, because if you don’t have plans at this point, the conversa­tion quickly becomes an exchange of awkward pleasantries like “Oh, I’m sure something will work out,” and “Don’t worry about it.” 
Instead, the new question du jour is: “Are you ready to graduate?” 
My answer is “yes.” 

I think most people expect the answer to be “no,” like I’m supposed to be afraid of the future or sad to leave my college years behind. 
On the first point, fear of the future, I’m not. I’m ready for the next adven­ture. I’m ready to be done with the homework, ready to move out of the dorms, ready to break out of the campus bubble for good. I’m ready to move on and do something different. In fact, I don’t think I would enjoy a ninth semes­ter or more at Notre Dame. 
The second point, that I should be sad to leave my college years behind, is a lit­tle more complicated. I admit it will be hard to give up the closeness of good friends, the freedom a college student’s schedule provides, or the general adven­ture that college entails. Notre Dame has become my home in the last four years. And moving day is never particu­larly easy. 
But the good news is that I’ll be able to keep, in some sense, my home under the Dome after graduation, even after I give up my single in Fisher Hall. Football games, reunions and strong friendships will all keep me from being alienated from Notre Dame. If nothing else, I know the phone center will keep on calling (they’ve already called me at least half a dozen times). All of this makes the separation a lot easier. 
Additionally, if I can harass my younger brother into becoming a Domer (assuming Admissions lets him in — which they should, he’s far smarter than I am), I’ll have a great excuse to come back to campus even more often. I’d also really appreciate the insider reports on student life over the next few years. 
So, Peter, do the right thing for your graduating brother and put Notre Dame at the top of your list. 
Even if he doesn’t end up at Notre Dame, I am confident I can handle being an alumnus instead of a student. I am ready for the next step, and “yes,” I’m ready to graduate. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at 
asteiner@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

In the April 27 edition, the author of the column "Three principles of family friendliness" was incorrectly identified as a Notre Dame staff member. Richard Klee is a graduate student. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT ONE C ANGE WOULD YOU MAKE TO NOTRE DAME? 








Libbey VanDyke  Liz Moore  Tori O’Malley  Mitchell Myers  Teresa Keeney  Bruno Ayana  
junior  freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  
Badin  Ryan  Welsh Family  Keough  Welsh Family  Duncan  
“Co-ed dorms.”  “Move it to New  “Have more  “Free football  “Get rid of  “More  
York City.”  carnivals on  tickets.”  parietals.”  sunshine.”  

South Quad.” 
Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer Irish football coach Brian Kelly addresses students as he hosts a question-and­answer session about the upcoming fall season Tuesday in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
OFFBEAT 

Vomiting dog causes man to crash into utility pole 
WINONA, Minn. — A man has a pretty good excuse for why he crashed his car into a utility pole in Winona: his dog puked on him. The Winona Daily News reported police found the car unattended last Thursday morning against an Xcel Energy pole. Witnesses told offi­cers they saw a man leav­ing the area and walking a beagle. 
The 18-year-old, who does not have insurance or a Minnesota driver’s license, called police about four hours later to confess. 
The man told police he was driving when his dog started “throwing up all over him.” Deputy Police Chief Tom Williams said the story checked out — police found vomit in the car. 
6-pound foal born in N.H. may be world’s tiniest 
BARNSTEAD, N.H. — A diminutive horse born in New Hampshire could lay claim to the world record for lightweight foal. The pinto stallion named Einstein weighed just 6 pounds and measured 14 inches tall when he was born Friday in Barnstead, N.H. Those proportions fit a human baby just about right but are downright tiny for horse, even a miniature breed like Einstein. 
Dr. Rachel Wagner, Einstein’s co-owner, says the Guinness Book of Records lists the smallest newborn horse as weigh­ing in at 9 pounds. 
Breeders say that unlike the current record holder, Thumbelina, Einstein shows no signs of dwarfism. He’s just a tiny horse. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday 

IN BRIEF 
“Legacies in Stone” will be on exhibit in the School of Architecture all day today. 
“All Art is Propaganda” will be on display in Special Collections Room 102 in the Hesburgh Library. The exhib­it will open at 8 a.m. today. 
The theses projects for the 2010 BFA/MFA candidates will be on exhibit at 10 a.m. today in the O’Shaughnessy Galleries in the Snite Museum of Art. 
The Department of Physics will host a colloquium on “Ab initio” theory of light-ion reactions in Room 118 of Nieuwland Science at 4 p.m. today. 
The Cushing Memorial Lecture on “Decoherence and Reality” will be delivered in Room 117 of DeBartolo Hall today at 4:15 p.m. 
The Gender Relations Center will present the “Now is the Time” festival for vio­lence prevention on South Quad today beginning at 5 p.m. 
Collegium Musicum will present its spring concert in the Reyes Organ and Choral Hall in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 7 
p.m. and 8:30 p.m. tonight. Tickets will be sold for $3. 
The Danielle Rose Concert will be held in the Keenan-Standord Chapel at 8:30 p.m. tonight. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Saturday Sunday 


Atlanta 70 / 44 Boston 49 / 40 Chicago 63 / 45 Denver 74 / 45 Houston 82 / 64 Los Angeles 64 / 49 Minneapolis 69 / 52 New York 55 / 39 Philadelphia 58 / 41 Phoenix 90 / 59 Seattle 55 / 45 St. Louis 73 / 53 Tampa 76 / 64 Washington 63 / 46 
Wednesday, April 28, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Zimmer named 2010-2011 varsity leprechaun 
By KATIE PERALTA 
Senior News Writer 
Brian Kelly won’t be the only new face on the Notre Dame Stadium sidelines this fall. 
David Zimmer, a junior from Angola, Ind. and a resident of O’Neill Hall, was named the new leprechaun for the 2010-2011 school year, kicking off his new role at The Shirt unveiling Friday at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
“It’s something I’ve always wanted ever since I came here,” Zimmer said. “I knew that I fit the bill. I’ve never been shy in front of crowds.” 
Zimmer said he has been vying for the position since last year’s tryouts. 
“I tried out last year and got the Blue Squad [leprechaun position] … and came back this year with more experience and knowledge and was able to get the Gold Squad position,” he said. 
Zimmer, who transferred from Purdue, wrestled his freshman year and came to tryouts his sophomore year as a cheerlead­ing novice. 


“I actually had never had any cheerleading experience before,” Zimmer said. 
As Blue Squad leprechaun, Zimmer led cheers at the men’s and women’s soccer, hockey, vol­leyball and women’s basketball games. 
Zimmer said his experience on the Blue Squad helped him secure the Gold Squad position, but it did have its difficulties. 
“They like to see how you can handle yourself in a game time situation,” Zimmer said. 
“Being a Blue Squad lep­rechaun was sometimes difficult because often there wasn’t the same crowd capacity that men’s football or basketball had. But toward the end of the season, women’s basketball was very good and had the chance to travel with them to Connecticut and Kansas City. 
“It was a very big learning experience.” 
Zimmer was named the new leprechaun two weeks ago after an intense tryout that included cheerleading stunts, a three-minute pep rally, a television interview adapted to a game time situation, a jig-off and a pushup contest. 
Fifteen men originally came out for tryouts, and five remained for the final round of tryouts. 
While practicing for the tryouts, Zimmer said he and former lep­rechaun Dan Collins became friends. 
“I had a lot of chances to talk to Dan and ask him questions,” Zimmer said. “He really did serve as a very good mentor. He was a wonderful leprechaun.” 
Collins said Zimmer is the right kind of leprechaun the program is looking for. 
“Dave really brought an intense level of energy to his tryout and that’s one of the most essential things that any leprechaun candi­date needs,” Collins said. “I think in addition to his energy, he also has that fighting Irish swagger that the leprechaun needs to have.” 
Collins also said Zimmer’s long­time enthusiasm for Notre Dame 



GRChosts‘FestivalontheQuad’ 
By CAITLYN KALSCHEUR 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame Gender Relations Center (GRC) will end will benefit his work as the new leprechaun. 
“He grew up a lifelong ND fan so he has a sense of the tradition he’s now a part of,” Collins said. “He really understands the spirit he’s called to embody. He’s going to do a great job.” 
Zimmer said he looks forward especially to next year’s football opener. 
“Being in the tunnel [before the Blue-Gold game] was such an amazing experience,” Zimmer said. “I think the thing I’m looking forward to most is running onto the field and carrying that flag at our home opener against Purdue.” 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 
its year-long Violence Prevention Initiative (VPI) by hosting its second annual “Now is the Time: Festival on the Quad” event from 5 to 8 p.m. on South Quad tonight. 
In addition to free food and corn hole, there will be live music from 5 to 7:30 p.m. fea­turing student bands, including The Revelin’ Family Band, Ana Livias Daughtersons and Pat McKillen. 
Following the music, there will be readings from “A Time to Write,” the GRC’s journal of writings about experiences with violence. Select student writers will share excerpts of their pieces, and free copies of the journal will be provided to those in attendance. 
“To do a public reading of these pieces will remind us of these stories and why we’re here,” said Elizabeth Moriarty, assistant director of the GRC. “While we may not have our own story, there are people in our midst who are survivors of sexual violence.” 
Senior and student represen­tative Patrick Tighe said the readings are “powerful” to hear and help raise awareness for the cause. 
“The festival started last year with five of us students just brainstorming about how to raise more awareness about sexual violence,” Tighe said. “Through working with GRC we came up with VPI for a year-long effort to provide sup­port and raise awareness.” 
VPI has five major goals, which the GRC hopes to accomplish throughout its year-long efforts: to raise awareness about violence in the local community, to increase understanding about global violence, to promote the healing of survivors of vio­lence, to fundraise for local non-profits invested in violence prevention and/or service to survivors of violence and to serve as a flagship for violence prevention programming on Catholic campuses. 
Moriarty said the Festival is held at the end of the year to conclude the year’s efforts. 
“We wanted to have some­thing that was more of a cele­bratory environment to cele­brate our efforts in dealing with issues related to sexual violence,” Moriarty said. “It’s not all doom and gloom when working in advocacy and activism.” 
Moriarty said Ecclesiastes 3:1-8 is the inspiring message that unites the VPI events. 
“Part of Notre Dame’s uniqueness is that we can con­nect something like this to faith and we can find our inspiration from scripture,” Moriarty said. “It teaches us how there are times of celebration and times of mourning, and we have to carry them all with us. Not just the happy and pleasant times but the struggles, too. That’s what helps us to heal.” 
Aside from being an event to raise awareness about sexual violence, the festival is also a fundraiser for the SOS of the Family Justice Center, the Rape Crisis Center of St. Joseph County. 
“We chose SOS because they are in desperate need of money and they work directly with Notre Dame and its students,” Moriarty said. 
Moriarty said SOS provides advocates for Notre Dame, Holy Cross and Saint Mary’s students who have to go to the hospital for sexual violence. They also train advocates, take phone calls for the crisis hot-line and support people who have suffered from violence. 
In addition, SOS facilitates an on-campus support group for women who are survivors of sexual assault. 
Contact Caitlyn Kalscheur at ckalsche@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 28, 2010 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 


COR talks strategic planning, textbook rentals 

ward and forming good rela­tionships.” 
Crawford said his talk would be centered on developments the College of Science is mak­ing in order “to enhance and expand research and enter­prise.” 
The plan features seven goals, most of which are cen­tered around creating and pro­viding more research opportu­
“A lot of universities like Michigan, Stanford and [the Massachusetts Institute of Technology] were fighting for this opportunity,” Crawford said. “This is the first accelera­tor the U.S. government has invested in since 1982 and Notre Dame is going to build 
it.”  
Crawford  said  one  of  the  
goals  was  to  
c u l t i v a t e  


nities for students within the College of Science. “The first goal we have is to  “This is a really important step in having student input in academic  Catholic tradi­tion in the field of science. This particular initiative will  
enhance and expand under-graduate research in our core disci­ decisions. This is about moving forward and forming  be centered on the three Catholic pillars of truth, serv­ 
plines,” Crawford said. This includes  good relationships.”  ice and the common good. “We’re going  
creating  a  new  to be launch- 
institute  within  Catherine Soler  ing a program  
the College for 2011 focused on  student body president  c a l l e d Compassionate  
pure mathematics.  Care, largely  
The institute “will  for  our  pre- 

bring in the best math profes-med students,” he said. “This sors from all over the world for will have our students partner a semester.” with hospice care on the local 
“That way every year will be level, but we will also be partic­different and it will help to ipating on the international expand our international col-level with sending a few stu­laborations,” he said. dents to Africa to do work in 
Crawford also said Notre those communities.” Dame recently was awarded Crawford said even with the $3.5 million to build a new individual proposals, the nuclear accelerator for the fed-College will continue to be eral government. involved in continuous develop­ment. 
“We’re really excited about this,” he said. “We’ve done a lot but we’re still not quite there yet.” 
Director of Retail Operations for the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore Keith Kirkpatrick then took the floor to talk about a rental system for textbooks for the 2010-2011 academic school year. 
“The rental idea came up on the national level,” Kirkpatrick said. “We did a pilot study in fall 2009 and we’re going to be implementing across the coun­try next academic year.” 
The program will allow stu­dents to pay a fee to rent the book for a semester for a price that is up to 50 percent off the price of the new book. 
“The biggest plus to this pro­gram is the upfront savings,” he said. “This program also provides the incentive for pro­fessor to make the books more affordable for students because they verbally commit to use the same book for four semesters.” 
Kirkpatrick said he believes the price of textbooks is “out of control” and the rental pro­gram will help drive costs down. 
“We don’t want to see this program fail,” he said. “We don’t want you to feel violated when you buy books.” 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 

By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR) brought in two guest speakers at its meeting Tuesday to discuss the Strategic Plan initiative within the College of Science as well as the new service that will allow Notre Dame students to rent their textbooks. 
Dean Gregory Crawford from the College of Science discussed the strategic plan that is in the process of being implemented within the College. Crawford said he was there to see what the student leaders thought about the effort. 
“This is a really important step in having student input in academic decisions,” student body president Catherine Soler said. “This is about moving for­




World & Nation 
Wednesday, April 28, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 


Unusual wake draws attention 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico — A funeral home in Puerto Rico that made interna­tional headlines two years ago is at it again. 
Marin Funeral Home has embalmed the body of a young man and put the corpse atop a motorcycle in a hunched-over rac­ing position. The body wears a black cap, black sunglasses and a long-sleeved black T-shirt. 
Local television station WAPA says the unidentified 22-year-old shooting victim will be buried Wednesday. 
Calls to the funeral home were not returned Tuesday. 
Two years ago, the funeral home embalmed a 24-year-old man and kept the body standing upright for during a three-day wake. 

Senator criticizes ambush site 
ASUNCION, Paraguay — A Paraguayan senator who narrowly survived an ambush by gunmen said his country’s remote border with Brazil is coming to resemble Mexico’s violence-wracked Ciudad Juarez. 
Sen. Roberto Acevedo spoke Tuesday as he recovered in a hospital bed from being shot twice in the arm when gunmen attacked his SUV, killing his driver and bodyguard. 
Acevedo said he believes the attack in Pedro Juan Caballero, a border town in far northern Paraguay, was ordered by drug traffickers who put a $300,000 price on his head. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Ariz. law may be challenged in court 
WASHINGTON — Attorney General Eric Holder said Tuesday that the federal govern­ment may go to court to challenge Arizona’s new law which makes it a state crime to be in the United States illegally. 
Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano also voiced reservations about the new state law, saying it could siphon fed­eral money and staff from hunting down dangerous immigrants. 
The critical comments by the nation’s top law enforcement official and the Cabinet sec­retary responsible for enforcing immigration laws came four days after Arizona’s gover­nor signed a law designed to crack down on illegal aliens. 

Senate puts climate bill first 
WASHINGTON — Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid said Tuesday he is willing to bring up climate change legislation ahead of an immigration bill, the first step toward resolving a dispute with Senate Republicans that threat­ened to derail a bipartisan effort months in the making. 
Reid said the long-delayed climate bill “is much further down the road in terms of a product” than the immigration measure, which remains unwritten. 
“The energy bill is ready. We will move to that more quickly than a bill we don’t have,” Reid, D-Nev., told reporters. “I don’t have an immigration bill.” 
Reid’s comments were intended to help resolve a dispute that emerged last weekend when Sen. Lindsey Graham, R-S.C., threatened to withhold support for the climate bill if Reid pushes ahead first with an immigration bill. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Prisons to instate DNA testing 
INDIANAPOLIS — When a prison inmate sharpens a piece of metal or plastic into a handmade knife, he may not realize traces of his identity are left behind every time it’s handled. 
Beginning next week, prison officials in Indiana will begin using a new system that tests trace amounts of DNA left on “shanks,” cell phones and other contra­band used by inmates. The so -called “touch DNA” technology tests DNA con­tained in skin cells left behind where someone has touched something. 
FRANCE 



Ex-dictator extradited to France 
Former Panamanian leader Manuel Noriega set to face money laundering charges 
Associated Press 

PARIS — Former Panamanian dictator Manuel Noriega, fresh out of a Miami prison where he spent two decades, was sent back behind bars in France on Tuesday to await a new legal battle — this time on charges he laundered cocaine profits by buying luxury apartments in Paris. 
Hours after Noriega arrived in Paris following his extradition from the United States, a judge deemed him a flight risk and dispatched him to La Sante, a grim brick prison in southern Paris. Famous past La Sante inmates include convicted terrorist Carlos the Jackal and Nazi collabo­rator Maurice Papon. 
Noriega lost his first battle on French territory — he unsuccessfully pressed a judge to send him home to Panama. If convicted in France, he could face anoth­er 10 years in prison, a daunting prospect for the 72-year-old. Noriega’s French lawyers said they will appeal the decision put­ting him behind bars and say his detention and trans­fer are unlawful. 
If Noriega had been released in France, even to house arrest, it would have been a victory after a gener-drug cash to invest in three escorted out a side door of Leberquier said French jails ation in prison. It could also posh Paris apartments. But the court by armed guards. aren’t ready to accommo­have been an awkward situ-France agreed to give him a Limping, he used a cane. date, and that the charges ation for France, where a new trial if he was extradit-Yves Leberquier, a lawyer against him are no longer string of former dictators ed. Noriega’s wife, Felicidad for Noriega, said the former valid because the acts he is from Haiti to Africa have Sieiro de Noriega, is living in dictator has been partially accused of happened too settled or bought second Panama and faces no paralyzed since suffering a long ago, the lawyer said. homes in the past. charges there. mild stroke four years ago. Noriega was declared a 
Officials are to set a trial In a hearing before Paris Another of Noriega’s POW after his 1992 drug date on May 12 for Noriega, judge Jean-Michel Maton, lawyers said his client had conviction by a Miami feder­who was deposed after a Noriega pleaded to be sent seemed resigned to return-al judge. In Miami, Noriega 1989 U.S. invasion and home to Panama, citing his ing behind bars. had separate quarters in imprisoned in Florida for prisoner of war status. “I “Having been extradited prison, the right to wear his drug trafficking. After fin-don’t agree with the action from the U.S., he was not military uniform and ishing his U.S. sentence, he against me,” he said really expecting to be insignia, access to a televi­was extradited from Miami through a translator. released tonight, even if he sion and monitoring by and sent on a direct flight to Noriega spoke little during hoped for it,” Olivier international rights groups. Paris, where he was imme-the hearing and appeared Metzner said. Panama also has an out­diately served with an arrest tired. Wearing a white but-Noriega’s legal team standing request for the for-warrant Tuesday. ton-up shirt and black jack-argued that it was illegal to mer dictator’s extradition. 
France already has con-et, his black hair thinning, try a former head of state He was convicted in victed Noriega and his wife he periodically rested his who should have immunity Panama in absentia and in absentia of laundering head in one hand during the from prosecution. sentenced to 60 years in some $7 million in cocaine proceedings. Other legal objections are prison on charges of embez­profits through three major After the judge denied that Noriega is considered a zlement, corruption and French banks and using Noriega’s request, he was prisoner of war, a status murdering opponents. 


Malcom Xassassin released on parole 
victed with him were not involved. lot of time, to think about it,” Hagan 
Associated Press 

They maintained their innocence told a parole board last month, 
NEW YORK — The only man to and were paroled in the 1980s. No according to a transcript of the inter-admit shooting Malcolm X was freed one else has ever been charged. view. on parole Tuesday, 45 years after he The assassins gunned down “I understand a lot better the assassinated the civil rights leader. Malcolm X out of anger at his split dynamics of movements and what can 
Thomas Hagan, the last man still with the leadership of the Nation of happen inside movements, and con­serving time in the 1965 killing, was Islam, the black Muslim movement flicts that can come up, but I have freed from a Manhattan prison where for which he had once served as chief deep regrets about my participation he spent two days a week under a spokesman, said Hagan, who was in that,” said Hagan, adding that he work-release program, state then known as Talmadge X Hayer. had earned a master’s degree in soci-Department of Correctional Services He has repeatedly expressed regret ology since his conviction. spokeswoman Linda Foglia said. for his role in the assassination, The board granted Hagan’s parole 
Hagan, 69, has said he was one of which he described in a 2008 court request on his 17th try. He was initial-three gunmen who shot Malcolm X as filing as the deed of a young man who ly scheduled for release Wednesday, he began a speech at Harlem’s “acted out of rage on impulse and loy-but the date was moved up because Audubon Ballroom on Feb. 21, 1965. alty” to religious leaders. his paperwork was completed, Foglia But Hagan has said the two men con-“I’ve had a lot of time, a heck of a said. 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 28, 2010 


Lecture emphasizes advantages of fair trade 
Members of Catholic Relief Services explain merits of system for dealing with transactions in Central America 
tions and environmental sus-cup of coffee, or a chocolate tainability. bar, or a handcraft that is 
“For each of us who have fair trade certified, you know jobs, or for each of us who because there is a fair trade are working certification within a struc-system that ture … we real-what you are 
ly care individu-buying with 
“After all, the bottom 
ally about each that money is 
line is to pay as
of these steps,” again not just Taylor said. little as possible, a living wage “Fair trade is to for someone, 
regardless of what
make sure that but that there 
the producers or the
these five prin-is no exploita­cipals are not farmer gets out of it.” tive child shoved aside in labor, no harsh order to provide environmental 
John Taylor 
the lowest price conditions, ” 
member
for the con -Howell said. sumer,” he said. Catholic Relief Services Additionally, 
Howell added Howell dis ­that fair trade cussed the worked to ways in which strengthen communities by students can participate in utilizing all of these princi-the fair trade system. pals. Howell encouraged stu ­
“It ’s pretty powerful to dents to purchase fair trade know that when you buy a products. Another way to become involved is to learn more about fair trade. 
According to Howell, there are a variety of ways to encourage fair trade within local communities. Howell said to organize fair trade tastings, film nights or infor­mational events. 
She also said selling fair trade products and hosting fair trade sales around holi­days would be beneficial for fair trade communities. 
Howell encouraged stu ­dents to get involved in fair trade practices. Other ways students can become involved, Howell said, is to discuss fair trade with fami­lies and friends, change the purchasing practices of stores in the area and call on the College to provide fair trade products. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 

By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
Fair trade does not just mean fair wages, John Taylor, a member of Catholic Relief Services (CRS), said Tuesday. 
The lecture titled “A Piece 
of Fair Trade ” focused on the 
Taylor said typically, the goal for the consumer for any transaction is to pay as little as possible for the products purchased. However, in a fair trade system, consumers look at the wages that the produc­er will receive instead of the cost of the product. 
“After all, the bottom line is 
to pay as lit­
tle as possi­

“What’s different 
benefits of fair ble, regard ­trade among about the fair trade less of what 
Central American system is that it’s the produc ­countries. ers or the 
added value.” 
The talk was farmer gets held in Carroll out of it, ” Auditorium at Jessica Howell Taylor said. Saint Mary’s. Taylor also 
member 
Taylor, along said there 
Catholic Relief Services 
with fellow CRS member Jessica Howell, said fair trade is beneficial for impoverished nations. 
Taylor said CRS began to assist refugees coming out of Europe in 1933. Today, CRS focuses on international aid and development. 
According to Taylor, CRS currently is working in over 100 countries throughout the world to promote fair trade. 
Howell said fair trade is much more than just creating fair wages for small farmers. 
“Fair trade ultimately is the realization that there’s a per­son behind every item that we purchase, and how we choose to buy that item affects that person in a posi­tive or a negative way, ” Howell said. 
According to Taylor, free trade is far more complex than fair trade. Taylor explained the process of free, 
or conventional, trade in relationship to coffee farm­ers. Coffee farmers begin the process of free trade by pro­ducing coffee beans. The beans are then sent to inter­mediaries, who are responsi­ble for negotiating the price with the farmer. Once the intermediaries agree on a price, the coffee beans are then taken to a processing mill. There, the hull of the bean is removed. 
Taylor said the beans are sent to an exporter, who works to find a place to sell the beans. A broker then works with the exporter to connect with an importer, who brings the coffee beans to the roaster. After the beans are roasted, they are taken to a distributor, who ensures the beans are put in a store to be sold. A retailer then sells the beans to a con­sumer, and the revenue from the beans is distributed throughout each member of the chain. 
Howell said the fair trade system is far less complex and provides more value to the products. 
“What’s different about the fair trade system is that it’s added value,” Howell said. 
According to Howell, fair trade also begins with the farmer. After the beans are raised, they are sent to a cooperative, which is a dem­ocratically run resource that allows the farmers to receive more money per pound of product. The beans are then taken to a processing mill and then sold to coffee com­panies. From there, con ­sumers have the capability to purchase the product. 
were five 
main princi­pals in the fair trade system. Those principals include fair wages, cooperative work ­places, long-term relation­ships, good working condi­



The Observer 

Wednesday, April 28, 2010 page 7



Business 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Calif. bans toys with fattening food 
SAN JOSE — In an effort to curb childhood obesity, county officials in Silicon Valley voted Tuesday to ban restaurants from giving away toys and other freebies that often come with high-calorie meals aimed at kids. 
The ordinance is largely symbolic as it would only cover unincorporated areas of Santa Clara County, meaning only about a dozen fast-food outlets and several other fami­ly-owned restaurants would be affected. 
But its chief sponsor says it’s still important because it paves the way for other areas to act, may spur action by fast-food chains to offer healthier choices and can help parents by taking away a child’s incentive for wanting less healthy food. 
“This ordinance does not attack toys. Obviously, toys, in and of themselves, do not make children obese,” said county Supervisor Ken Yeager, who pushed for the ban. “But it is unfair to parents and children to use toys to capture the tastes of children when they are young to get them hooked on eating high-sugar, high-fat foods early in life.” 

BLM settles dispute over N.M. land 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. — The Bureau of Land Management and conservation groups have set­tled an eight-year dispute over a management plan for nearly 10,000 natural gas wells in the San Juan Basin of northwestern New Mexico. 
The groups claimed the BLM violated the National Environmental Policy Act and other federal laws in developing a 2003 management plan for drilling over 20 years in the 16,000­square-mile basin that straddles the border of New Mexico and Colorado. 
A federal court ruled in favor of the agency in 2008, and the groups countered with an appeal. That appeal was dismissed Monday after both sides reached a compromise that, in part, calls for the BLM to consider impacts to cultural, wildlife and other resources when reviewing new lease sales. 
The agency also plans to hold annual meet­ings to discuss proposed oil and gas develop­ment in the basin, consult with tribal officials from the Navajo Nation and develop an online system that the public can access for informa­tion on existing wells and lease locations as well as proposed oil and gas projects. 
CHINA 



China aims to tighten control 
Government hopes to strengthen laws regarding telecommunications services 
Associated Press 

BEIJING — China is poised to strengthen a law to require telecommunications and Internet companies to inform on customers who discuss state secrets, poten­tially forcing businesses to collaborate with the coun­try’s vast security apparatus that stifles political dissent. 
The move, reported Tuesday by state media, comes as China continues tightening controls on com­munications services. It also follows a spat over censor­ship that prompted search giant Google Inc. last month to move its Chinese site to Hong Kong, which provides broader protection of civil liberties than mainland China. 
A draft of amendments to the Law on Guarding State Secrets submitted to China’s top legislature for review will make more explicit the requirement that telecoms operators and Internet serv­ice providers help police and state security departments in investigations about leaks of state secrets, the state-run China Daily newspaper said. 
“Information transmis­sions should be immediately stopped if they are found to contain state secrets,” the official Xinhua News Agency cited the amendment as say­ing. Xinhua said that accord­ing to the amendment, once a state secret leak has been discovered, records should be kept and the finding reported to authorities. 
In China, state secrets have been so broadly defined that virtually any­thing — maps, GPS coordi­nates, even economic statis­tics — could fall under the category, and officials some­times use the classification as a way to avoid disclosing information. 
The new draft maintains that wide scope, defining state secrets as: “informa­tion that concerns state security and interests and, if leaked, would damage state security and interests in the areas of politics, economy and national defense, among others,” Xinhua said. Reports did not say what penalties for violations would be under the amend­ed law. 

But its passage is unlikely to result in a significant change as communications companies are already often compelled by powerful authorities to comply with investigations. 
The amended law is most likely to affect people using local Internet service providers, but it is unclear if Google, which still runs some services on its China site such as Google Video, will fall under the radar. Many other overseas web­sites, like Facebook and Twitter, are already blocked in China. It probably also won’t interfere with compa­nies that do not provide China-based services or store data in the country. 
In 2006, Yahoo Inc. was heavily criticized by media and human rights activists and U.S. lawmakers after it emerged that the American Internet company had given Chinese prosecutors e-mails from the account of Chinese journalist Shi Tao. Shi was jailed in 2005 for allegedly providing state secrets to foreigners. His e-mails allegedly contained notes about a government memo on media restrictions. 
The draft amendments were submitted Monday to the National People’s Congress Standing Committee for a third review 
— usually the final stage before being adopted by lawmakers. 
Chinese leaders appear determined to monitor the flow of information that reaches the world’s largest Internet population, with some 384 million users. The government recently also issued new regulations to tighten procedures for domain name registration and to remove websites that are not officially registered. 
Chinese authorities view the control of information as key to heading off or stem­ming the spread of unrest. After deadly ethnic riots broke out in a Muslim region in western China in July, Beijing unplugged the Internet entirely in the region and slowed cell phone service to stifle reports about the violence. Limited Internet and phone texting services were restored in recent months. 


Hawaii’sailingtourismindustrygains 
Associated Press 

HONOLULU — More people are vacationing in Hawaii and spending more, tourism officials said Tuesday, signaling a possible recovery for the hard-hit industry. 
The Hawaii Tourism Authority said nearly 608,000 people visited the islands in March, a 9.3 percent increase over the same month last year. 
All top four feeder markets showed gains, including a 17.3 percent jump in visitors from Canada, followed by the West Coast (9.2 percent), East Coast (7.9 percent) and Japan (6.5 percent). 
“It is encouraging to see tourism in our state stabilizing,” said Marsha Wienert, Hawaii’s tourism liaison. 
Total expenditures by visitors who came by air was up 12.7 percent to $874.2 million. That was the largest increase since April 2006, when the measure grew 15.6 percent. 
Wienert said the increased visitor arrivals and the slightly higher spending resulted in an additional $99 million in visitor spending, which “benefited almost every sector of our economy.” 
Tourism is the No. 1 industry in Hawaii and the economic lifeblood of the islands. Last year’s sharp drop-off in visitors stemming from the eco­nomic crisis has taken a toll on every­thing from jobs to tax revenues. 
The island of Maui saw the biggest growth. Visitor spending rose 25 per­cent last month because of the addi­tion of several new flights to the Valley Island from Canada and four cities in California. Arrivals on Maui increased 14.2 percent, followed by Oahu (9.5 percent), Kauai (8.2 per­cent) and the Big Island (0.2 percent). 
For the first three months of the year, total spending statewide grew by 5 percent, or $130 million, over the same period last year to $2.7 bil­lion. 
The number of tourists from Asian markets outside Japan rose sharply in the quarter, with the number of Koreans nearly doubling and Chinese surging 23 percent. 

page 8 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 28, 2010 Wednesday, April 28, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 9 

Programwillallowstudentstorenttextbooksinthefall 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Student body president Catherine Soler said a new program, Follett’s Rent-A-Text, will allow students to rent textbooks from the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore for a fraction of the cost of buying them, beginning next fall. 
“We think that this is a great opportunity for all students,” Soler said. “It gives them another way to address the issue of textbook affordability, which is obviously something that everyone here struggles with. We’re always looking for lower prices.” 
The program will allow stu­dents the option to rent books at up to 50 percent off the pur­chase price, Soler said. The program will be available online and in the Bookstore. 
“Just like you would go to the Bookstore and purchase your textbooks, you can walk 


in and have the option of rent-pus, Soler said. ing them,” Soler said. “By having this program cus-
Books are to be returned at tomized to our Bookstore, the end of the semester, Soler you’re getting the exact books said. Students do not sell back you need for all of your cours­their rented textbooks — the es,” Soler said. monetary transaction at the Not every textbook is going beginning of the semester is to be rentable, Soler said. the only time money is “Some disciplines lend them-exchanged. selves more availability in 
If students lose or damage a terms of titles that you can rented textbook, there will be rent,” Soler said. procedures applied on a case-However, Soler said, there is by-case basis, Soler said. a unique option to Notre 
“It is a program that you Dame’s program called the need to be responsible and “local title option.” accountable for, just like any “If professors make a com-other textbook renting or pur-mitment to the Bookstore to chasing process now,” Soler use the book for a certain said. amount of semesters, then 
Soler, along with student they will be able to rent those 
body vice presi­ books,”  she  
dent Andrew Bell, said one of the  “Just like you would  said. Soler  and  
main advantages of the program is convenience. “You’ll be able  go to the Bookstore and purchase your textbooks, you can  Bell said they encourage pro­fessors to con­sider texts that  
to buy or rent all  walk in and have the  either  are  
of your books at the same time, rather than rent- option of renting them.”  rentable or could be used under the  
ing  from  an  “local  title  
online provider or buying your books from vari- Catherine Soler student body president  option.” “We’re not suggesting that  
ous websites and  every  single  

waiting for them to come in,” professor be forced to use a Soler said. “You’ll be able to rentable textbook,” Bell said. get everything from the “Our intention is not at all to Bookstore for a cheaper compromise the academic price.” integrity of a class here at 
Bell added: “Convenience is Notre Dame. We just ask that a huge factor. In the past, it’s every professor at least consid­been that convenience at the er the options because it could Bookstore came at a much save students a significant higher price than if you spent amount of money.” a lot of time searching online, Soler said the amount of sav­going to different websites.” able money is high. 
Some of the rentable text-“If Notre Dame would’ve had books will include customized this program last fall, eight textbooks, which can normally percent of books would’ve only be purchased at the been available to rent, and if Bookstore. everyone would’ve rented 
“[Soler] and I are business them, we would’ve saved half majors. In the business school, a million dollars,” Soler said. their customized accounting The 2009 pilot program in textbooks include only the 27 schools saved over $2 mil-chapters we need,” Bell said. lion, Soler said. “You’re going to have to buy “We’re very excited we can that at the Bookstore. There’s bring this program to the stu­no other option.” dents and follow through on 
Soler said there is flexibility one of our big campaign prom-in the program, in case course ises,” Soler said. “We think textbooks change or a student this is something really valu­drops a course. Students can able for students and is some-also purchase books at the end thing that will hopefully go for-of the semester, if the student ward and stay at Notre Dame, rented the textbook and wants making an impact on everyone to keep it. that comes through the 
The program was designed University.” by Follett and is used by other schools, but it has been cus-Contact Amanda Gray at tomized for Notre Dame’s cam-agray3@nd.edu 





Leadership award honors late business professor 
page 10 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 28, 2010 

Special to The Observer  the business school and the entire Notre Dame community,”  Mendoza College Department of Management office.  Power and Influence in Organizations,” and he served  management consulting and in May 2009 with a bachelor’s in  
As a faculty member at the  said Koch, who served as the  A Chicago native, Vecchio was  from 1995 to 2000 as the editor  psychology. She is currently  
University of Notre Dame for  president of the Management  graduated  from  De  Paul  of the prestigious Journal of  completing a three-year intern- 
more  than  34  years,  Club at the Mendoza College of  University in 1972. He earned  Management.  ship in people development at  
Management Professor Robert  Business. “I  am  honored to  master’s and doctoral degrees  “Bob’s  leadership  of  the  ABB, an electrical engineering  
Vecchio  was  known interna­ even be remote- in  industrial  department dur­ company  in  
tionally as a prolific and respected researcher who stud­ied topics that fell into the  ly associated with his memo­ry.”  “I know Professor Vecchio made an  p s y c h o l o g y from the University of  ing the 1980s set the stage for the transition to  “He actively mentored many of our faculty,  Koch’s home-town of C l e v e l a n d ,  
nexus between psychology and business. Vecchio frequently provided an expert voice for articles on leadership, work­ “The award is given at the dis­cretion of the faculty to a con- incredible impact on the business school and the entire Notre  Illinois in 1972 and 1976, respectively. He chaired the  a stronger research cul-ture, while still e m p h a s i z i n g  and he was a popular and effective teacher. Bob Vecchio embodied  Ohio. In July, she plans to begin a two-year Human  
place emotion and motivation. Students relied on him for advice on management and career matters.  sulting or entre­p r e n e u r s h i p student who embraces the  Dame community.” Kristen Koch  m a n a g e m e n t department at the Mendoza College from  excellent teach­ing,” said Crant. “He actively mentored many  the spirit of the management department, and we  R e s o u r c e s R o t a t i o n a l Program with SPX Corp. in  
Bob Vecchio tragically passed away in February 2009 as a result of injuries incurred in a  spirit of Notre Dame and has excelled in  senior  1983 to 1990. In addition to p u b l i s h i n g  of our faculty, and he was a popular and  honor his memory through this award.”  Charlotte, N.C. For more i n f o r m a t i o n  
fall.  In  his  memory,  the  developing leadership skills,”  highly regarded articles on a  e f f  e c t i v e  about  the  
Management Department of the  said J. Michael Crant, professor  variety of issues in organiza­ teacher.  Bob  J. Michael Crant  Robert Vecchio  
Mendoza College of Business announced a new commemora­tive award, with graduating  and chair of the Management Department. “Kristie received the nomination from several  tional behavior and corporate management, he authored "Organizational Behavior,” the  Vecchio embod­ied the spirit of the manage- department chair management  L e a d e r s h i p Award or the M e n d o z a  
senior Kristen Koch receiving  faculty members.”  sixth edition of which was pub­ ment  depart- College  of  
the  first  Robert  Vecchio  Recipients of the award will  lished  in  2006  by  ment, and we honor his memo- Business  Department  of  
Leadership Award.  receive a watch and have their  Thomson/Southwest. Vecchio  ry through this award.”  Management, call (574) 631­ 
“I know Professor Vecchio  names  engraved  on  a  wall  was the editor of “Leadership:  Koch graduated in December  6183  or  e-mail  
made an incredible impact on  plaque on display outside the  Understanding the Dynamics of  with  a  bachelor’s degree in  mgtdept@nd.edu  

Avatar 
continued from page 1 
character Jake playing around in the water. 
“The first task they gave me [when I was working] on ‘Avatar’ was to create a river,” he said. “That one scene took about eight months from start to finish.” 
As a computer graphic supervi­sor on “Avatar,” Hemberger was in charge of a number of light artists. 
“Everything that went into the computer graphics for the scene had to be delivered through me,” he said. 
Hemberger showed a video about the ways water graphics can be generated using a comput­er program. 
Hemburger said film footage shot on a regular camera could previously be used to generate graphics, but that is no longer the case. 
“On ‘Avatar,’ the problem was we couldn’t use 2D elements any­more, we had to use all 3D,” he said. 
Hemberger said one of the most difficult scenes to create was one that showed the character both above and underwater. 
“This scene was infinitely more challenging because the camera breaches the water’s surface,” he said. “What makes it complicated was that there were two entirely different elements at play here.” 
Hemberger said he had been working on an animated film for the past few months but dropped the project when he took the job at Pixar. 
“This is the long and short of the adventures of my past year or so,” he said. “I’m going to Pixar to be an effects technical director. There, I’ll probably be doing more effects like the ones I did at WETA.” 
After the presentation ended, Hemberger fielded questions from members of the audience about attaining a career in the field . 
Among other projects Hemberger worked on were “Eragon,” “The Matrix Reloaded” and “X-Men: The Last Stand.” 
The Department of Computer Science and Engineering spon­sored Hemberger’s talk, which was called “Experiments in Feature Film Visual Effects.” 
Contact Liz O’Donnell at eodonne1@nd.edu 


Wednesday, April 28, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 11 


Lacrosse 
continued from page 1 
HIV positive. Her husband just died of AIDS and she’s got 7 kids,” Dugan said. “Creating this poultry-rearing project makes it easier for her … If they take care of it and run it effectively, it changes their life forever.” 
Fields of Growth International also works with the children of AIDS widows and teaches them to play sports, such as lacrosse, net­ball and soccer. 
“Here are these kids. They wake up every day and life never changes. For us to just the ‘Play Like a Champion Dugan said the project also Today’ sign,” Dugan said. sends a positive message to the “‘Play Like a Champion Today’ athletes. translates to these kids, ‘live “The main people that we’re like a champion today.’” playing lacrosse with are girls 

Brems said he wanted to and the main people that we’re combine his helping are love for lacrosse w o m e n , ” and service, but “The main people that Dugan said. “I never had the we’re playing lacrosse think it’s really 
opportunity powerful mes-
with are girls and the
before learning sage for our about Fields of main people that we’re guys to see that Growth helping are women.” and for 
our International. guys to respond “There is real-to that and to 
Kevin Dugan 
ly nothing else have Division I like that in the men’s lacrosse athletes serving lacrosse world. director of operations and trying to I’ve heard peo-empower mar­ple talk about ginalized having interest, but there has women in rural Uganda. never really been an opportu-“[We’re] going over there nity to,” he said. “Most of the with that humble spirit like, [volunteering] events that we do around here are one-day events.” 
Dugan said the Notre Dame 

men’s lacrosse team has helped give them our time, no matter generate equipment to send to what that may be, they’re Uganda and said he hopes to excited, whether it’s lacrosse or get the team more involved flag football or over time. kickball,” “We think it’s 
“For us to just give 
Dugan said. going to be the 
Dugan said he them our time, no start of an wanted to matter what that may incredible team infuse the spirit international 
be, they’re excited,
of Notre Dame development athletics into whether it’s lacrosse or project,” Dugan the program for flag football or said. “It puts children in our athletes, 
kickball.” 
Uganda, and many of whom has done so are business through the Kevin Dugan majors, in a “Play Like a position to have 
men’s lacrosse 
Champion an experience 
director of operations
Today” sign. with micro ven­
“These kids at turing and this orphan school, they walk social entrepreneurism at the out on this field and they touch grassroots level.” 
OK, I’m going to learn more from Africa more than Africa is going to learn from me … We need Africa more than Africa needs us.” 
Dugan said the organization is currently selling T-shirts, modeled after the TOMS Shoes one-for-one design. 
“We make about $6 to $7 per T-shirt. That’s how much a live chicken costs in Uganda,” he said. “You buy a T-shirt and we buy a live chicken for the AIDS widow poultry-rearing proj­ect.” 
For more information on Fields of Growth International, contact Kevin Dugan at kdugan1@nd.edu or visit www.fieldsofgrowth intl.org 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 



page 12 The Observer  NEWS Wednesday, April 28, 2010 


Students donate unwanted items to charities 
“We do Blue to New because 

By ALICIA SMITH 
we needed a systematic way 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
for the end-of-the-year dona­
tions to be organized and sort-

Rather than throw away ed to make sure that area unwanted items at the end of agencies benefit as much as the academic year, Saint possible,” Call said. Mary’s hopes its students Call said OCSE is responsible donate items to local charities for the project. Junior Jessica through the Robbins has Blue to New been working program, said on preparing 
Carrie Cal l, director of the Office for Civic  “We do Blue to New because we needed a  for the pro-g r am. Call said addition- 
a n d Social E n g a g e m e n t (OCSE). “ S t u d e n t s donate items in  systematic way for the end-of-the-year donations to be organized and sorted  al stude n t worke rs will assist in col-le cting a n d so rting the  
eac h hall things they longer want don’t want  — no or t o  to make sure that area agencies beneft as much as possible.”  donations. Students can donate items at designated  
take with them  areas  in each  
w h en they leave, and we divide the dona­tion up for dif- Carrie Call director OCSE  residence hall. Call said the program will accept any  
ferent  c h ar i- u n w a n t e d  
ties,” Call said.  items, includ- 
Collections for  ing  food,  

Blue to New begin Friday and clothing, shoes, rugs, unbro­continue until May 17. Call ken furniture, books, school said students should begin to supplies, glassware, dishes, think about which items to lamps and functioning small donate as soon as they start appliances. cleaning out their rooms. Though the program will accept a variety of items, Call asked students to refrain from dumping broken items or half-empty containers of food in the donation locations. 
“We implore students to respect the donations and remember that the donations are going to charity,” Call said. 
Food, clothing, furniture and electronics will be donated to St. Vincent de Paul, Call said. Books will be collected for Better World Books, and school supplies will be distrib­uted throughout local Title 1 partner schools. 
“It’s a very important project because it’s one of the largest donation drives we do at the College and it provides great materials for a number of area agencies,” she said. 
In addition, Call said other items will also be donated to Navarre Middle School and the area food banks, as well as the Saint Mary’s Free Store, locat­ed in the basement of Le Mans Hall. 
Call said the program is in need of volunteers. Any stu­dents interested in volunteer­ing should contact Call at ocse@saintmarys.edu 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 



Lawpushesforpresumedconsent 



Associated Press 
ALBANY, N.Y. — A New York assemblyman whose daughter is alive because of two kidney transplants wants his state to become the first in the nation to pass laws that would presume people want to donate their organs unless they specifically say otherwise. 
Assemblyman Richard Brodsky believes the “presumed consent” measures would help combat a rising demand for healthy organs by patients forced to wait a year or more for transplants. Twenty-four European countries already have such laws in place, he said. 
If he succeeds, distraught families would no longer be able to override their loved ones’ decisions to donate upon their death. And eventually, hospitals would be able to assume the deceased consented to have his or her organs har­vested, unless the person refused in writing. 
Brodsky’s interest in organ donation is personal; his 18­year-old daughter, Julianne “Willie” Brodsky, received a kidney four years ago from a donor who was struck by light­ning and an earlier transplant from her mother. 
“People’s survival should not rest on acts of God alone,” said the elder Brodsky, a Westchester County Democrat. 
Advocates say the availability of healthy donor organs is low just about everywhere nation­wide, where 106,000 people are on a waiting list that averages three to four years for each type of organ. 
But serious emotional, med­ical and ethical concerns worry families, who currently can stop organ harvests even if their loved ones agree to donate. So New York will move slowly, Brodsky said. 
The state Department of Motor Vehicles says that 95 per­cent of the 2 million donors on New York’s donor registry come from driver’s licenses. The shortage occurs because the need is constant and many donors sign up when they are young, meaning any organ har­vest can be years away. 
Presumed consent, opponents say, could force someone to become a donor against their will. It also might lead patients viewed as prospective donors to worry about how hard a med­ical team will work to save them if there is a greater bene­fit to harvesting the organs. 
Arthur Caplan, director of the Center for Bioethics at the University of Pennsylvania, knows those arguments. 
“There is a keen interest in trying to do something about the shortage of organs,” he said, noting a consent effort surfaced last year Delaware, but stalled. “Just redoubling efforts to get people using donor cards isn’t working.” 
He said advances in medicine, a proliferation of transplant centers and longer life spans are driving demand, while sup­ply is fairly static. Advocates say more than a dozen people on the national waiting list die each day. 
“I think about it a lot,” said Kathe LeBeau, 51, of Latham, 
N.Y. She’s had kidney disease since she was 45, is on dialysis and has been waiting three years on the list for a kidney donation. “I can’t hardly wait for the call.” 
Presumed consent, especially compared to another possible option of creating a legal organ market, can work in the United States as it has successfully in Europe, Caplan said. 
“I have been arguing since 1983 for presumed consent ... Spain, Austria, and Belgium shows success and it works and people don’t feel they aren’t given a fair chance to say ‘no,’” he said. 
Still, he said a system that defaults to harvesting every­one’s organs will be a hard sell, and prompt misconceptions. 
A 2008 bill in Delaware would have created an opt-out organ donation program but never got out of committee. Opponents called it an intrusion into peo­ple’s privacy that treated organs as commodities. 
This would enable hospitals to more quickly prepare a body for organ removal. 


Wednesday, April 28, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 13 
ties do research, but they often nity to continue that work campus. help raise the University’s visibil­refer to it as scholarship,” he because it helps them have an “Research provides the ity in the research field while 

Research 
continued from page 1 
program, our research and our Catholic tradition.” 
The funding is part of the sec­ond phase of the University’s Strategic Research Initiative (SRI), which began last year and now stands as an $80 million investment. Projects funded examine nanotechnology, sus­tainable energy, climate change and the interaction of Roman Catholicism and Islam, among other subjects. 
“We are studying some very important questions and some very important problems, and the impact of the things that we find is going to influence many important things around the world,” Vice President for Research Robert Bernhard said. “We felt, as a panel, that we have a chance to make great break­throughs in those areas.” 
Bernhard said research is dif­ferent for each field, and the University’s goal encompasses “research, scholarship and cre­ative endeavor.” 
“Many people in the humani­said. “For the scientist, research impact on the world and stay is the discovery of knowledge — current in their subject,” he said. learning something that no one “Research is important for peo­


has ever learned  ple  and  for  
before. For the social scientist,  “We are studying some  impact.” According to  
it’s looking at i m p r o v i n g human condi­ very important questions and some  Bernhard, stu­dents also stand to benefit from  
tions.  For  the  very important  the  funding  
engineer, it’s solving prob­lems. For the artist and people  problems, and the impact of the things that we find is going to  because it will provide them with not only the best teachers,  
in architecture, it’s the creative experience of being able to do  influence many important things around  but also the opportunity to get involved. “I think stu­ 
something that’s  the world.”  dents  benefit  
admired.  The  s i g n i f i c a n t l y  
shorthand ver­sion is, it’s all research.”  Robert Bernhard vice president  both from the type of faculty that we will be  
Bernhard said  Research  able to recruit  
pushing  Notre  as part of these  
Dame to become  things and sec- 

one of the premier research ondly from the opportunity for institutions would help the them to get involved,” he said. University attract an elite faculty. “More and more of our under­
“Faculty from the very best graduate students are doing universities are all involved in research, and I think that the some type of scholarship or trend is going to continue.” research and want the opportu-Assistant Professor of 
Biological Sciences Jessica Hellmann agreed, adding that expanding research will allow the best students to work with the best faculty. 
“Of course, research plays a critical role in enhancing under­graduate and graduate student instruction; the best students want to work with the best facul­ty on the most pressing problems of the day,” she said. “By having a great research infrastructure, Notre Dame can offer courses and experiences to students that are taught by leaders in the field.” 
Hellmann, whose project is titled “Notre Dame Collaboratory for the Study of Adaptation to Climate Change,” said her research will allow her to have a real impact on the world beyond University the opportunity to also possibly curing one of engage and affect the world mankind’s greatest plagues. around us,” she said. “Climate “The unique approach we are change adaptation will involve establishing immediately pro-difficult decisions that are legal, vides high value and high visibili­moral, scientific and political, ty research for the University,” and Notre Dame is uniquely he said. “If successful, we will poised for this kind of interdisci-have made a unique and signifi­plinary and complex thinking.” cant contribution to the develop-


Engineering Professor Tracy ment of cures for these two Kijewski-Correa, whose project is extremely important diseases.” titled “CYBER-EYE: A Cyber-Professor of Chemistry and Collaboratory for National Risk Biochemistry Gregory Hartland, Modeling and Assessment to whose project is called “A Mitigate the Impacts of Focused Interdisciplinary Hurricanes in a Changing Research Group in Climate,” said it is important for Nanostructured Solar Cells,” said Notre Dame to fund research ini-his project will help boost Notre tiatives because it is one of the Dame’s reputation as a leader in areas where the University lags the nanotechnology field while behind its peer institutions. also attempting to find a cheap, 
“As a university with a strong sustainable source of energy. undergraduate educational tradi-“We think we will be able to tion, we lag behind many of our get some very high profile papers peers who have been doing out of our efforts, which will research from ‘day one,’” she show (along with the work being said. “One part of their competi-done in the NDNano center) that tive advantage, aside from their Notre Dame is a serious player in long standing traditions in nanoscience at an international research, is the fact that they level,” he said. “Hopefully, this have endowments to seed will also lead to new funding research ideas.” (from agencies such as the NSF 
Kijewski-Correa said her proj-and DOE), and establish Notre ect will help contribute to Notre Dame as a leader in nanomateri­Dame’s mission by finding a way als for solar energy applica­to save the lives that are often tions.” lost in disastrous hurricanes. But while Hartland examines 
“Notre Dame has had a long the applications of nanotechnolo­tradition of responding with gy, Huber will be looking at its great compassion and generosity possible perils, particularly to help the afflicted in the wake whether or not nanoparticles are of these disasters,” she said. toxic to humans. “This project would deepen that “A lot of different materials are mission commitment by helping being developed and released us to lead the way on developing into the environment because hazard-resilient communities they’re not regulated,” Huber using cutting edge research to said. “If the University is going to prevent these losses altogether.” be involved in research activities, 
The panel that evaluated the then the burden is on them to merits of the research proposals, make sure everything is safe.” which included both Affleck-The other four projects chosen Graves and Bernhard, originally were the “Sustainable Energy received 45 three-page propos-Initiative” from Professor of als. Bernhard said the proposals Chemical and Bimolecular were evaluated based on a set of Engineering Joan Brennecke; the criteria, which “ N . D . included mission Environmental fit, contribution “We think we will be Change to the research Initiative” from 
able to get some very
prominence of Professor of 
high profile papers out
the University, Bi ologi cal educational ben-of our efforts, which will Sciences David efits for students show (along with the Lodge; and whether the “Contending 
work being done in the
project was sus-w i t h tainable in the NDNano center) that Modernity: future. Islam and 
Notre Dame is a serious 
“The Roman
player in nanoscience
University is try-Catholicism in ing to jump start at an international a Secular Age” areas of level.” from Professor research that of History R. they believe will Scott Appleby; 
Gregory Hartland 
be important in a n d the future and professor “Laboratory for where Notre Chemistry and Biochemistry Enhanced Dame can play a Wind Energy role,” said Design — Professor of Chemistry and eWind” from Engineering Biochemistry Paul Huber, who is Professor Thomas Corke. leading an initiative called Affleck-Graves said the proj­“Assessment of the Impact of ects have the potential to help Nanoparticles on Human Health shape the world. and the Environment.” “It’s through their research 
Of the original 45, 10 were that the faculty can change the invited to write full proposals, world,” he said. “Curing a neg-which the panel then sent to be lected disease, tackling the prob-evaluated by the top experts in lem of religious fundamental vio­each of the respective fields. lence, energy and the environ­
“My proposal was selected ment — these are all ways that based upon the uniqueness of the Notre Dame can help change the research approach, the impor-world.” tance of the research to Notre In the future, Bernhard said he Dame’s mission and the possibili-is undecided about whether ty that the research could pro-another round of funding will vide a significant return on take place, but he stressed that investment in terms of research the SRI was just the beginning. dollars resulting from the proof-“These two rounds of invest-of-concept research proposed,” ment are part of our process but said Professor of Biological they’re not all of it,” he said. Sciences Malcolm Fraser, who is “We’re thinking about whether a spearheading the initiative enti-third round makes sense and tled “Developing Group I Intron whether we would want to do a Antiviral Strategies for Treating third round. We’re not decided HIV and HCV Infections.” on that yet.” 
Fraser, whose project will attempt to develop cures for HIV Contact Joseph McMahon at and HCV, said his project will jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
The Observer 




Viewpoint 
page 14 Wednesday, April 28, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 


ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 

Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnewseditor.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 pcoveney@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Chris Masoud Megan Doyle Matthew Robison Caitlyn Kalscheur Luke Mansour 
Graphics Viewpoint 
Maria Cecilia Patricia Mitsch Fernandez 
Scene 
Jordan Gamble 




Looking ahead to next year 
Today is the last day of class and, for most people, it is time to get senti­mental about the past year. We’ve already had columns by the senior writers reminiscing about the last four years and what they are Andy Ziccarelli going to miss about Notre Moment of Dame. Well, for-Inertia tunately for me, I’m only a junior, so I have one more year to spend in college. Rather than getting all teary-eyed by recounting my favorite memories of this year, I am going to be more uplifting. Instead, I am going to talk about everything that I can’t wait for next year. 
More than anything, I am excited to get all of my friends back. All Domers have experienced (or will experience) the exodus of students to study abroad programs junior year. I realize that studying abroad is an unbeliev­able experience, and in many ways I am jealous of those who did live abroad for a semester. But, selfishly, it is tough to lose people that you have lived with and grown close to over the first few semesters of col­lege. I’m ready for the day when the entire Class of 2011 is back on cam­pus, and everyone that I want to see is just a phone call or short bike ride away. 
I am excited to live on campus next year (believe it or not). Not many col­lege students live in the same building all four years, but then again, most colleges do not foster the sense of community within the dorms like Notre Dame does. Living on campus is convenient because of how close it is to class, how connected to campus life you are and the fact that you don’t have to cook for yourself. I wasn’t ready to be out on my own, away from the daily buzz of campus, and now I can live that experience for one final year. Along those lines, I am excited to be an RA in my dorm and to be someone that freshmen and under­classmen can turn to. It wasn’t long ago that I was the nervous, homesick freshman living with 300 other guys that I had never met before, and I can still remember how intimidating it was. I’m looking forward to doing anything I can to help make the best possible Notre Dame experience. 
While I am still going to be on cam­pus, I am also excited for my friends who have decided to move off campus into various apartments and houses around South Bend. I realize that it is going to take more of an effort on my part to see them, but I also believe that it is going to be an awesome experience for all of them. They are all going to have a great time being independent and, in a sense, I am jealous of that freedom. 
Despite the past few years, I am still unbelievably excited for next football season. There is just a different atmosphere around campus during the season. Obviously, I am excited to see what Coach Kelly can do with the team, and I’m hopeful that, at the very least, I can see a winning regular season in one out of my four years at Notre Dame (I still can’t believe that I just typed that). With that, I am excit­ed for my last year of weekly tailgat­ing. I don’t think that needs much of an explanation. 
I am excited to go through the Bengal Bouts season and tournament one final time. Ironically, “excited” isn’t exactly the word that I use to describe how I feel at about 4 p.m. 
every day right before I trudge through the snow to go to practice. However, looking back, the Bouts have been an amazing experience, and one that I could only have had at Notre Dame. Where else can an aver­age guy like me sign up and partici­pate in a legitimate, full-contact ama­teur boxing tournament? I have been blessed with the opportunity to learn the sport of boxing, and it has forever shaped my time at Notre Dame. 
What I have realized, though, is that I am just excited to be in college for one more year and am ready for everything that comes with it. It does­n’t have to be a football Saturday, or a dorm formal, or anything special at all. I get one more year of staying up too late, putting off homework and feeling the buzz of students walking to and from class on an average school day, and I can’t wait for it to come. 
I am excited about potentially writ­ing a column again next year, too. This column has put me in contact with some amazing people and it has been a great experience for me. I want to thank everyone that took the time to read my work and for the feedback that everyone gave. Hopefully, I made people think about things a little more, or at least made lunch in the dining hall on Wednesdays a little more interesting. But for right now, I am excited that summer is here, because I am just about out of things to write about. 
Andy Ziccarelli is a junior majoring in civil engineering. He can be reached at aziccare@nd.edu. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL 
What are your plans for the summer? 
Service trip Internship Hanging with family and friends at home Going abroad Haven’t decided yet/Other 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I have learned not to worry aboutlove; but to honor its coming withall my heart.” 
Alice Walker 
U.S. author 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Wednesday, April 28, 2010 page 15 
Queering Spanish culture 
Editor’s Note: This column is part of a series by Notre Dame faculty members about current research in sexuality. 
After the fascist regime of General Franco (1939­1975), democrat-Carlos ic Spain has Jerez-Farrán reacted to the oppressive recent Guest Columnist past with a vengeance. Contact with mainstream Europe after Franco’s death contributed to expose Spanish society to ideas previously cen­sored. Although the Catholic Church continues to voice its opposition to any form of non-marital and non-procreative sex, the prestige and influence it had under the Franco years have been seri­ously diminished, partly because Spaniards seem to have learned how easy it is to make do without an institu­tion that has traditionally legitimized sexual repression, among other things. In consequence, modern Spain enjoys some of the most egalitarian legislation in Europe with regard to sexual orienta­tion. It has become one of the seven countries in the world that allows same-sex marriage and permits adoption by same-sex couples. Gay men and lesbian women can serve openly in the army, act as judges within its judiciary system and be part of the police corps. The visibility of the gay culture in main urban centers like Madrid and Barcelona can be com­pared to that of San Francisco or Amsterdam. What is interesting to note 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Senior Week 
Dear Senior Class Council, 

Upon finding out that the senior week agenda included the opportunity to explore the mysterious tunnels that exist beneath campus grounds, I was ecstatic. Since freshman year when I first heard mention of these hidden pathways, I have been determined to find a way to explore these depths before heading off to join the ranks of the world that exists beyond Notre Dame. 
When a friend and I arrived at South Dining Hall, I quickly became appalled at the highly disorganized nature of the system, especially the fact that an unbelievably large number of students were able to jump in with their friends at the very front of the line. After wait­ing for an hour and a half, we were unable to obtain tickets for any of the Sneak Peek events, let alone the tun­nels. Is it fair that a student who arrived at 1:15 p.m. should get tickets when a student who arrived at 12:45 
p.m. does not? 

With such high demand and limited availability, a more fair method should have been applied to ensure that each student has an equal chance of obtain­ing tickets. Also, was 1 p.m. on a Monday the best time to make tickets available? This is highly unfair to the students who have class at this time and cannot afford to skip in order to wait in line. I propose that the Senior Class Council try to make more of the Sneak Peek options available to a greater number of seniors, perhaps extending the number of days the tours are offered from two to three or even four if possible. No senior should have to leave Notre Dame disappointed that they missed out on such an opportunity. 
Rebecca Kant 
senior Ryan Hall April 26 
is that, in spite of the openness, visibility and relative tolerance homosexuality has gained in modern Spain, members of the opposite sex continue to attract each other, to get married and what is equally important, to procreate. If the birthrate in contemporary Spain has dropped to critical levels, it has not been due to the permissiveness and visibility of the gay culture but rather because of the economic constrains parenting rep­resents for the great majority of its urban population. 
Despite current changes in attitude toward homosexuality in Spain, it is still hard to find a national gay press or a major politically oriented gay liberation movement (the existing ones are small, although they have official recognition from their local government), or LGBT programs in universities like the ones in the Anglo-Saxon world. It is another of the country’s paradoxes that, in spite of the much-vaunted opening up in matters of sexual politics and behavior, there has been little space for alternative sexuali­ties in Spanish academia. It has been notoriously resistant to the wave of cul­tural studies that have increasingly become part of academic curricula in major institutions of higher learning that facilitate intellectual development by stimulating minds, challenging narrow thinking and allowing students to ques­tion, search and discover in ways not allowed before. Most of the leading uni­versities continue to be conservative and reticent when dealing with gender mat­ters and forms of sexual expression that 
We are writing this letter to The Observer on behalf of two of the most impressive, caring and genuine profes­sors that we have ever had the privilege to work with during our time at Notre Dame. 
Bo Smith and Tom Roche have only taught at this university for two years, yet in this short period of time have had a noticeable impact on the student body in a way few professors are able to boast. Their courses span the FYS Honors Program, the Program of Liberal Studies, the Department of English, and the Department of Film, Television, and Theatre, in which they have been espe­cially recognized. Their course “Acting for the Non-Acting Major” in which we are all currently enrolled has become one of the first classes to fill up, and continually attracts a diverse group of students from all of the University’s colleges and depart­ments. 
It is our opinion that they are two of the best professors to ever work in the departments they are involved in at Notre Dame, and borh deserve the opportunity to continue their instrumental role in undergraduate education. Unfortunately, despite Notre Dame having one of the largest endowments of private institutions in the United States, recent budget cuts have prevented Bo and Tom’s contract from being renewed. Currently it appears that, at the most, Tom will have the opportunity to teach one course in the fall, and Bo one in the spring: a signifi­cant decline from the six courses they have taught each term during the 2009­2010 academic term. We are writing this defense for their teaching merit in the hopes that the administration will listen to the student body and give more under­graduates the opportunity to study with these professors. 
First, each professor is incredibly quali­fied to be teaching undergraduates. Bo is an established actor of stage, television and film who began working in the indus­try as a teenager and has gone on to act challenge traditional concepts of sexuali­ty. Challenging these structures has not been an easy matter for gays, lesbians and gay-friendly hetero academics, since articulating our own positions involves exposure of the ways in which hetero­sexual hegemony regulates meaning. Although masculine homosexuality has been receiving modest attention, there is little research done on lesbianism. It continues to be the “terra incognita” female sexuality was for Freud some 90 years ago, the reason being that, like in most other European countries, lesbian voices continue to remain silenced and lesbianism hardly visible in Spain. 
Current scholarship on homosexuality in Spanish literature continues to focus mainly on gay and bisexual poets like Federico García Lorca, Emilio Prados and Luis Cernuda. They were highly influenced by other renowned gay authors like Oscar Wilde, André Gide and Marcel Proust. Among these poets, Cernuda (1902-1963) stands out for the current interest he holds in LGBT stud­ies, partly because, unlike other contem­porary gay authors who chose to ignore the subject of homosexuality or repre­sented it negatively, Cernuda demon­strates the freedom and joy that arises from voluntary acceptance of what he considered to be natural law. This strategic affirmation of gay love as a means of contesting heterosexism and homophobia — which is the principal ideological thrust of contemporary LGBT studies — together with his deployment of gay male desire as a category capable 


Academia lost 
in numerous films and Broadway produc­tions. He is incredibly intelligent, and dur­ing our time in class, he astonishes stu­dents with his extensive historical, cultur­al and theatrical knowledge. Tom spent time studying under C.S. Lewis at Oxford, wrote the most widely-used translation of “The Faerie Queene,” and is one of three members left in charge of the estate of F. Scott Fitzgerald. He taught at Princeton University for 44 years. Bo accompanied Tom at Princeton in the final year of his teaching, and together they taught a course on Shakespeare in the largest auditorium offered for a class because the demand for the class after just one semester exceeded 300 students. 
Second, these professors are teaching a 
course that directly correlates to the 
University’s mission to provide students 
with a well-rounded and fulfilling educa­
tion. Because of the way Notre Dame 
structures its undergraduate require­
ments and departments, it is very difficult 
for students to get into classes outside 
their major. Bo and Tom teach a class 
that remains one of the most unique 
opportunities currently available to stu­
dents who are not a part of the 
Department of Film, Television, and 
Theatre. It is the only opportunity non-
majors have to be enrolled in an acting 
class, which promotes both creativity and 
proficiency in public speaking. It provides 
a controlled, friendly environment in 
which students are encouraged to speak 
out and challenge their comfort zones. 
Students who have never acted before 
have this year performed pieces by Wilde, 
Shakespeare, Kushner and more. Pieces 
that are challenging for even the most tal­
ented professional actors are taken on by 
students in “Acting for the Non-Acting 
Major,” and because of the dedication and 
care of Bo and Tom, the students are able 
to succeed. 

But most importantly, Bo and Tom 
deserve to stay and teach more classes at 
Notre Dame for the incredible individuals 
they are. Both teachers are kind, gener­
to resist and thwart attempts to fix iden­tity, has also received much sustained scholarly attention. 
However, it is Pedro Almodóvar, the most celebrated and internationally acclaimed film director in Spain today, the one who has most visibly exported LGBT culture throughout the world and is attracting most interest in LGBT stud­ies. The film strategies he uses to enact the disturbances of homosexual desire and desire in general, together with his recurrent concern with gender fluidity, the interchangeability of sexual tastes and orientations, and constant interro­gations of sexual identities, all these subjects which he represents in his films resonate with his audience, students and LGBT scholars in unprecedented ways. Moreover, in a plurinationed country like Spain, where tensions between Spanish and regional identities have been a pow­erful driving force for the last two decades, Almodóvar’s postmodernist inquiries into traditional concepts of identity have also resonated among scholars across cultural and disciplinary boundaries who have paid increasing attention to the constructions of social subjectivity and collective identities. 
Carlos Jerez-Farrán is Professor of Spanish, Fellow of the Nanovic Institute for European Studies and Gender Studies Senior Fellow, 2009-2012. He can be reached at cjerezfa@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
ous and caring in a way unlike any pro­fessors we have encountered at Notre Dame. They don’t care about their stu­dents merely as pupils, but as individuals whose lives they are genuinely interested in. They take time to meet with students about virtually anything and everything outside of class. They have even taken students out to dinner to discuss future careers, the work they are doing in class, and life in general. Their class is a fun, supportive environment, where students actively encourage each other to rise to their potential. Speaking from experi­ence, we have absolutely loved coming to class every single day this semester, and there isn’t a class that goes by without the entire group — including Bo and Tom — bursting into laughter over something that happens. We approach all of our assignments genuinely excited to learn, and we sincerely believe that you would be hard-pressed to find any course Bo and Tom teach where students feel other­wise. 
For those of us who will be graduating this spring, we are honored to say that we have taken what could be the final “Acting for the Non-Acting Major” course that Bo and Tom teach, and many of us wish that we had been fortunate enough to take more courses with them earlier in our academic careers. For those of us who are undergraduates, we sincerely plead the University to recognize what a valuable asset they are to students at Notre Dame, and we ask that you give us the opportunity to continue to learn from these extraordinary men. 
Meghan Manning, Katherine Manic, Luke Ricci, Timothy Powers, Adjoa Andoh, Caitlin Aguiar, Amanda Clark, Brian Coughlin, Neal Hicks, Jennifer Plagman, Adjoa Andoh, Martin Quintana, Johnathan Sarna, Vanessa Rosa, Sam Vadas 
students April 27 

The Observer 



Scene
page 16 Wednesday, April 28, 2010 
He roams the campus, his textbooks at hand, study cap on. To the untrained eye, he’s just another Notre Dame stu­dent going through the daily grind of what it takes to bleed blue and gold. Yet it’s the way Will 
Thwaites seem- Shane Steinberg  
ingly blends in on  
campus that  Scene Writer  
makes him so dif­ 
ferent.  

See, behind the textbooks and every­thing that makes him a Domer, lies a mic, a yearning to throw on his signa­ture sunglasses, and a lyrical prowess that makes Thwaites a breath of fresh air in an industry full of recycled artists. 
He’s not rapping about drinking, drugs and scoring chicks. No, unlike the Sam Adamses and Asher Roths out there, Thwaites is about a different brand of hip-hop — one founded on intelligible lyrics, actual themes and songs built around more than simply blowin’ it up and livin’ the thug life. A moment’s glance at the album cover of Thwaites’ upcoming mixtape, “Be Somebody,” is all it takes to realize what he’s all about: reppin’ the school­boy image. 
The equation, as Thwaites points out in the song “Remix to the Suburbs,” is simple: “I’ve got beats that are sick, rhymes that are luscious, and skills like fine wine, so kid you better not rush us.” Yet what makes Thwaites an artist you ought to know isn’t necessarily his uncanny knack for lyrics, his beats, rhymes, or skills, but the different angle he takes to the whole process. He’s an artist that at first you’d think you’ve seen before, rapping about things you might think you’ve heard before, but this sophomore economics and Film, Television and Theatre double-major is in fact anything but unoriginal and recycled. 
Thwaites recorded his first song two summers ago, before he came to Notre Dame. What started off as a mere joke has since blown up into a bonafide artist about to release a mixtape with the hopes of making a name for himself. 
He’s doing what he loves, and to paint a comparison, he hopes to become the Notre Dame version of Mike Posner. It’s Mike Posner’s rise from a small-time campus singer/songwriter at Duke to a success in the mainstream music indus­try that inspires Thwaites and gives added weight to his aspirations of turn­ing that “mere joke” into his own suc­cess story. 
Yet Thwaites is not one to ride the coattails of others’ success and simply put out music that sounds like theirs. Instead of being a carbon copy of the artists he can’t avoid being compared to, he’s chosen to buck the trend and lend himself to something unique — like the title of his mixtape suggests. 
Being somebody is a process, one that often starts off as a joke and continues with the help of a Rock Band micro­phone to record songs, a copy of Apple’s GarageBand to mix songs and perhaps most importantly, the help of friends, like Lauren Ruhling (Thwaites’ press secretary/stylist) and Jason Lovell (his manager and graphic designer). 
He’s come a long way, though, from his humble beginnings. We’re not talk­ing “from Marcy to Madison Square” like Jay-Z. More like from video game equipment to legitimate studios where he’s grinded out songs during breaks from school and basically any chance he gets. Luckily for the former St. Edward’s Hall rap battles champ, Thwaites has the creative chops to hold his own and keep things fresh. 
It’s that process — the making of an artist — a wholesome schoolboy rapper reppin’ the suburbs, to be exact, that’s on full display in Thwaites’ debut effort. What’s clear at first listen of “Be Somebody” is that Thwaites is all about showing off his innovative pop stylings, especially in the lead track, “Still Shining,” and possibly even upping the ante on a couple of songs later on in the mix. His tracks run each into the next seamlessly. The quality and mix of Thwaites’ cuts never fail, but instead give an insight into something new and infectiously catchy. And it’s that catchi­ness and his hybrid style that have earned him over 35,000 hits on YouTube and should drive an even larg­er audience for him going forward as he puts out more music. 
The real standout in Thwaites’ collec­tion is “Daisy’s Lullaby,” a song cut straight from the diamond that is F. Scott Fitzgerald’s classic novel, “The Great Gatsby.” Here, Thwaites is in tip­top form, with lyrics that epitomize what makes him unique and fresh as a new artist. While straying from the gen­eral sound of much of the rest of his songs, Thwaites mixes orchestral splen­dor and the electro feel of a potential dorm party favorite. And it’s that intelli­gence and closeness that breathe life into the song, allowing it to play like fine wine, as each listen brings a new appreciation for the song. 
From sitting down and chatting with Thwaites, it’s clear that he loves making music. More than that, though, he has actual talent and seems to have found himself as an artist before having ever really put anything out there. Where he goes from here is anyone’s guess, as success is really just a measure of how his music is received both by his fellow Notre Dame students and anyone out­side of campus who happens upon his mixtape. 
For now, though, this schoolboy rap­per has his sights set on finals week. As he best describes himself, “student first, rapper second, but if I get one shot I intend to empty the clip.” 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 

MARY CECILIA MITSCH l Observer Graphic 
The Observer 


Scene
Wednesday, April 28, 2010 page 17 


In lieu of providing you with an all-purpose, summer-never-dies musical journey, I recognize that the freedom we all seek stands about a week and a half behind the epic buzz kills that are finals. This week, then, I will focus on get­ting you through the painful process with as little musical heartbreak as possible. 
Nothing can make or break a study session quite like the music you are listening to at the time. There are many modes of music people have when hitting the books. Some like classical music, some can’t study with singing, and others can’t focus without a racket in the back­ground. 
One of the lesser-utilized musical gen­res used to study is an arena of music we all have heard, and listen to more often then we realize. This would be the movie soundtrack, or the orchestral score written to accompany a film. In context, an orchestral score provides the perfect atmosphere for a movie, but on its own, it can be a work of instru­mental music that is light enough to keep you focused but charged enough to keep you awake. Here are a few films that you might want to cue up in the background as you sit huddled in your Hesburgh hut all week. 
“Braveheart” (James Horner) 
This 1995 epic took Mel Gibson’s sta­tus as Sexiest Man Alive to a whole new level, while also rewriting the look of a proper battle sequence, paving the way for film’s like “Lord of the Rings.” One of the main reasons this film hit so hard is that the music is a perfect blend of love­lorn Scottish melodies and thundering emotion. 
Tracks to Tap: “The Legend Spreads,” “For The Love Of A Princess” 
“Catch Me If You Can” (John Williams) 
Classic orchestra scoring alongside Frank Sinatra and Stan Getz. Enough flavors to keep your interest, enough cohesion to keep you calm. 
Tracks to Tap: “Recollections (The Father’s Theme),” “The Girl From Ipanema” 
“Dances With Wolves” (John Barry) 
Forgive Kevin Costner’s ‘stache and embrace the music. Barry wove subtle American folk melodies into lush orchestration that is as simply magnifi­cent as a buffalo hunt. 
Tracks to Tap: “Buffalo Hunt,” “The John Dunbar Theme” 
“The Italian Job” (John Powell) 
This is the way to go for upbeat and motivating. It will keep you going with­out becoming a distraction, but has enough moments of downtime to keep it from being repetitive. Powell also keeps consistent themes throughout, so there are no sudden changes. 

Tracks to Tap: “Italian Job,” “Planning the Heist” 
“Kingdom of Heaven” (Harry Gregson-Williams) 
Orlando Bloom’s failed attempt at car­rying his own film managed to turn out an interesting and involved score. Even if the acting was less-than-epic, the choir-filled, east-meets-west music lightly dipped in the background is a film score connoisseur’s treat. 
Tracks to Tap: “Crusaders,” “Ibelin” 
“Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers” (Howard Shore) 
Now, picking the score from just one of the three films the might as well be a genre unto themselves is a daunting task. But the second film’s soundtrack has just the right balance of mournful ballads and battle music, including the incomparable track “The Uruk-Hai,” which begs to be blasted from your lap­top speakers. If this doesn’t pump you up to write that paper, nothing will. 
Tracks to Tap: “The Uruk-Hai,” “The King Of The Golden Hall” 
“Requiem for a Dream” (Kronos Quartet) 
This Quartet keeps making appear­ances on campus and at DPAC, so it’s only fair that we give them their due as mind-blowing musicians. This score is the perfect balance between creepy and addicting (no pun intended). 
Tracks to Tap: “Summer Overture,” “Ghosts Of A Future Lost” 
“Rudy” (Jerry Goldsmith) 
You know it, you love it and you can’t possibly get sick of it. Nothing can make finals seem doable like studying for them with the sound of “Rudy.” 
Tracks to Tap: “Take Us Out,” “Tryouts” 
“Twilight” (Carter Burwell) 
Love or hate the movie, Burwell nailed this score. Beyond the over-hyped selection of pop songs featured in the film lies a world of riveting orches­tration that was hardly as polarizing as the actual film. “Bella’s Lullaby,” in any context, is so perfectly moving, it’s almost cruel. 
Tracks to Tap: “Bella’s Lullaby,” “Who Are They?” 
“Van Helsing” (Alan Silvestri) 
The epic flop of 2004 starring Hugh Jackman is survived by its eclectic score, which takes being a horror-film throwback quite seriously. 
Tracks to Tap: “Journey to Transylvania,” “Useless Crucifix” 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH l Observer Graphic 

page 18 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, April 28, 20105 
MLB 

Bay homers as Mets shut out Dodgers in New York 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Jason Bay hit his first home run for the Mets to back another stingy outing by Johan Santana, and New York beat the slumping Los Angeles Dodgers 4-0 in the opener of a doubleheader Tuesday for its fifth straight victory. 
Santana (3-1) worked his way around early traffic on the bases, tossing six innings of four-hit ball to extend a run of splendid starts by the Mets' sur­prising rotation. 
Luis Castillo hit a two-run sin­gle and New York pitched its second consecutive shutout, fol­lowing Mike Pelfrey's 1-0 win Sunday night over Atlanta in a game that was called in the sixth inning because of rain. 
More wet weather Monday night led to Tuesday's old-fash­ioned, single-admission, twinight doubleheader — but few fans made it to blustery Citi Field in time for the first pitch at 4:10 p.m. 
There were still plenty of empty sections of dark green seats down low by the time David Wright dived headfirst to score on a second-inning wild pitch by Hiroki Kuroda (2-1). 
A sparse crowd began filing in as the game wore on, but it was far from a full house as New York (11-9) improved to 7-1 on its 10-game homestand. 
Pitching has been the key: Mets starters are 5-1 with a 
1.17 ERA in the last 12 games, leading the club to a 9-3 record during that span. 
As white napkins whipped around the outfield in the wind, Fernando Nieve worked two scoreless innings and Pedro Feliciano finished the five-hit­ter. With its fourth shutout of the season, New York tied San Francisco for the major league lead. 
Oliver Perez was set to start for the Mets against knuckle­baller Charlie Haeger in the nightcap, a matchup of winless pitchers. 
Missing injured slugger Manny Ramirez, the Dodgers lost for the fourth time in five games. They have scored only five runs in their last four. 
Wright drew a one-out walk in the second, went to third on Ike Davis' double and scored when Kuroda threw a wild pitch with the bases loaded. 
Bay connected leading off the fourth, driving a 1-0 pitch over the 384-foot sign in left-center for his first home run since signing a $66 million, four-year contract with the Mets. 
New York had been waiting for Bay to break out the power bat that produced 36 home runs and 119 RBIs for the Boston Red Sox last season. 

NBA 


Capitals owner to buyWizards 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Va. — The family of late Washington Wizards owner Abe Pollin has agreed to the “major econom­ic terms” of a deal to sell its stake in the NBA team to Washington Capitals owner Ted Leonsis. 
Leonsis, a former AOL exec­utive, and the Pollins ran into some snags in talks this year. But in a statement Tuesday, Pollin’s sons, Robert and James, said they and their mother, Irene, congratulate Leonsis on this “near-final step in a long negotiation.” 
A person familiar with the negotiations confirmed to The Associated Press last month that the two sides agreed to value the franchise and the arena at slightly more than $550 million. 
Pollin died at age 85 in November, setting in motion what was expected to be a 
smooth  transfer  of  the  
Wizards  and  the  Verizon  
Center to Leonsis.  

Pollin anointed Leonsis as his heir when the two became partners in 1999. Leonsis’ group already owns 44 per­cent of the team and the arena, and was given the right to get the first chance to purchase the remaining 56 percent. 
“It’s not a ‘done, done’ deal, but it’s fairly close,” Robert Pollin said in a telephone interview Tuesday. “A signed deal should be a matter of days.” 

The NBA Board of Governors will need to approve the sale, but Robert Pollin said, “There’s really no question that they will. They know Ted. ... It’s a foregone conclusion they will approve it.” 
A representative for Leonsis’ group had no com­ment Tuesday. 
Abe Pollin was the NBA’s longest-tenured owner, hav­ing bought the Baltimore Bullets in 1964. He renamed his NBA team in 1997 because of the violent conno­tation of the word “Bullets.” A builder by trade, Pollin 
NFL 
Harris back with Bears after trade 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. — The Carolina Panthers traded start­ing strong safety Chris Harris to the Chicago Bears on Tuesday, continuing their offseason roster overhaul. 
The Panthers got reserve line­backer Jamar Williams in the deal, while Harris returns to Chicago less than three years after he was traded to Carolina. 
Harris was deemed expend­able after he struggled some in 2009 and Carolina added depth at safety. 
“Chris is going back to an organization where he has famil­iarity and we wish him the very best,” Panthers general manager Marty Hurney said in a state­ment. “He has done everything we have asked and has been a valuable member of our team. Right now we have some young safeties who will get the oppor­tunity to continue to earn playing time.” 
Harris joins starters Jake Delhomme, Brad Hoover, Muhsin Muhammad, Damione Lewis, Maake Kemoeatu and Na’il Diggs who have moved on because of Carolina’s youth movement. The Panthers also let Pro Bowl defensive end Julius Peppers leave in free agency. 
The 25-year-old Williams has played in all 16 games in each of the past three seasons with the Bears, and had a career-high 43 tackles last season. But he hadn’t been able to win a starting job with Lance Briggs in front of him and was a restricted free agent. 
“Jamar is a versatile line­backer who brings experience, athletic ability and can help on special teams as well as compete for time at linebacker,” Hurney said. 
After missing the first three games with a knee injury and then getting off to a slow start, the hard-hitting Harris had 44 tackles and three interceptions last season. He had 80 tackles a year earlier, and led the NFL and set a franchise record with eight forced fumbles in his first season with Carolina in 2007. 
Harris turned out to be a bar­gain for the Panthers. They sent a fifth-round pick to the Bears in training camp to get him after numerous injuries and Mike Minter’s retirement left them with almost no depth at safety. 
Harris immediately became a starter and was second on the team with 102 tackles in 2007. But after three seasons and being one of the leaders in the locker room, he was sent as Carolina sheds veterans and payroll after going 8-8 last sea­son. 


constructed the Verizon Center, which helped revital­ize Washington’s downtown area. 
Pollin previously sold Leonsis the NHL’s Capitals in 1999, and the WNBA’s Mystics in 2005. 
“Obviously, very sad feel­ings about transitioning out of it, but compared to losing my father, it’s not the same category,” Robert Pollin said. “It was his project for most of his adult life. I was 13 when we bought the Bullets.” 
The Wizards are coming off consecutive last-place finish­es, including a 26-56 record in 2009-10, a season marred by the suspension of star Gilbert Arenas for bringing guns into the locker room. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

2bd/2bath. GE appliances w/dish-(We will rent the house). We are CONSIDERING ADOPTION? ND washer. Mstr. bdrm w/walkin closet. located eight miles from Notre ALUMS hoping to adopt. PleaseFOR RENT No water/sewer bill. $1000/mo start-Dame. We are registered on the PERSONAL visit our website WANTED 
ing. Call Holiday Inn Express @ Niles Chamber of Commerce web http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro-Sublet Irish Row 2bd Apt Contact 968-8080 &amp; leave msg. site. chamber@nilesmi.com. For UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do file.net. SUMMER WORK, Sam Krause- skrause1@nd.edu, ——————————————— more info, call (269)687-8499. not go it alone. Notre Dame has ——————————————— Rent Negotiable FOR RENT 3bdr house. Walk to ——————————————— many resources in place to assist more money for your textbooks, free great pay, ——————————————— campus. Good area. Landlord does House 3 bed, 3 bath, new you. If you or someone you love dorm room pickup, fast payment, Bed &amp; bkfast, 2 br 1 full bath; the yard work. Washer/dryer. rehab/clean, so close to ND you can needs confidential support or assis dormbooks.com flexible schedules, home 10 min. from ND.Any time. $800/mo Avail. June 1. 574-295-see campus from the yard! Email ——————————————— ——————————————— Negotiable rate. Call Kay 574-229-9489 alexrock@rock.com! tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at If you or someone you care about no experience needed, 6223. ——————————————— ——————————————— 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For has been sexually assaulted, ——————————————— Graduation week/Football Season is gradrentals.viewwork.com more information, visit ND's web ——————————————— customer sales/service, New upscale apts. Less than 1 mil coming - Make reservation now ——————————————— site: we can help. For more information, from ND, next to Taco Bell on SR with Georgia Peach Bed and 3 BR home, nice area, walk to ND. visit Notre Dame's website: ages 18+, 
933. 2-story, 8 unit bldg. Each has Breakfast with four bedroom. $725/mo. 574-286-0081. http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu http.csap.nd.edu www.workforstudents.com ———————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 


Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Wednesday, April 28, 2010 page 19 
Men’s Division I Baseball NCBWA Poll 
team previous 
1 Texas 2 2 Virginia 4 3 Arizona State 1 4 Georgia Tech 3 5 TCU 8 6 Coastal Carolina 9 7 Arkansas 6 8 Florida State 10 9 UCLA 7 10 Florida 12 11LSU 5 12 Louisville 11 13 South Carolina 14 14 Miami (Fla.) 13 15 Oklahoma 17 16 Cal St. Fullerton 19 17 Mississippi 23 18 Vanderbilt 15 19 Arizona 16 20 Connecticut 27 21 Vriginia Tech 28 22 Stanford 30 23 Clemson 24 24 Kansas State 18 25 North Carolina 29 
Men’s Division I Lacrosse 
RPI Poll  
team  previous  
1  Virginia  1  
2  North Carolina  3  
3  Mayland  2  
4  Syracuse  5  
5  Duke  7  
6  Princeton  10  
7  Loyola (Md.)  6  
8  Cornell  4  
9  Stony Brook  11  
10  Towson  9  
11  Georgetown  12  
12  Villanova  13  
13  Denver  14  
14  Johns Hopkins  8  
15  NOTRE DAME  17  
16  Hofstra  16  
17  Fairfield  21  
18  Drexel  18  
19  Yale  15  
20  Harvard  19  
21  Brown  20  
22  Army  25  
23  Mount St. Mary’s  24  
24  Navy  22  
25  Lafayette  RV  



around the dial 
MLB Baseball 
Twins at Tigers 7 p.m., ESPN 

NBA Basketball 
Jazz at Nuggets 
10:30 p.m., TNT 
NBA 


Hawks’ Crawford wins Sixth Man award 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA — Jamal Crawford already got what he wanted most — a trip to the playoffs. 
On Tuesday, he picked up an extra reward for his unselfishness. 
After willingly accepting a backup role for the first time in his career, the Atlanta Hawks guard was named the NBA Sixth Man of the Year in a landslide. 
“You have to check your ego at the door,” the 30­year-old Crawford said. “It’s all about winning. You do what you've got to do.” 
He had never been on a winning team until he was traded to Atlanta by the Golden State Warriors last summer. Of course, the deal came with a caveat: The Hawks wanted Crawford to come off the bench, which was quite a change for someone who had been starting his whole life, from youth leagues to the NBA. 
Hawks general manager Rick Sund flew to Crawford's hometown of Seattle after the deal was made and pulled no punch­es about the planned role. 
“I went right for the jugular,” Sund recalled. “I told him there was an opportunity here to have tremendous notoriety com­ing off the bench. I told him if we were going to take this to the next level, be a championship-caliber 
IN BRIEF 

Rays’ Navarro receives two 
games for bumping umpire 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. — Tampa Bay Rays catcher Dioner Navarro began serving a two-game suspension Tuesday for bumping an umpire during an argument. 
Bob Watson, baseball’s vice president for discipline, issued the suspension Tuesday. Navarro did not appeal and will also sit out Wednesday’s finale of a two-game series against the Oakland Athletics at Tropicana Field. 
“Two games, get it over with. It's still early in the season. I don't want to be dealing with none of this stuff,” Navarro said. “Let these two days pass and get back on track and try to keep helping the team win.” 
Navarro was ejected by plate umpire Dan Bellino during the sixth inning of Friday's game against the Toronto Blue Jays for arguing a pitch to Adam Lind that was called a ball. Replays appeared to show the call was correct and Navarro made contact with Bellino. 
team, we needed someone to really make an impact off the bench.” 
Crawford did just that. He averaged 18 points a game in 31.1 minutes, a de facto starter who played a major role in Atlanta win­ning 53 games and earning the third seed in the Eastern Conference play­offs. The Hawks are tied 2­2 with the Milwaukee Bucks in the opening round heading into Game 5 on Wednesday night. 
Advancing in the playoffs is Crawford’s main goal, though he certainly didn't mind picking up some extra hardware during an off day in the series. 
“We’re doing some good things here,” he said. “It’s not complete yet.” 
Crawford won the award going away with 580 of a possible 610 points, includ­ing 110 out of 122 first-place votes. Jason Terry of the Dallas Mavericks, last year's Sixth Man winner, finished second this time with 220 points. Anderson Varejao of the Cleveland Cavaliers (126 points) was third. 
Until this season, Crawford was known mainly for being a talented player who always wound up on awful teams. Only two other players in NBA history had played more games than Crawford with­out making the playoffs until he finally broke through in his 10th season. 

Sicko signs with Dallas after
initially turning down draft 
IRVING, Texas — The Dallas Cowboys have signed tight end Scott Sicko, three days after the New Hampshire player said he was turn­ing down the NFL to go to graduate school. 
Sicko signed a free agent contract Tuesday, reversing course on a decision that he wouldn't pursue NFL offers after he wasn't taken in the draft. 
The 6-foot-4, 251-pound Sicko caused an Internet stir with his announcement Saturday. Some applauded the 22-year-old's focus on academics, while others blasted him for passing on a rare opportu­nity. 
Sicko tells The Times Union news­paper of Albany, N.Y., he was sur­prised by all the attention. He says he is “a 22-year-old kid” who want­ed to make sure he made the right decision for himself and fiancee. 
Heart surgery to sideline 
Brewers’ announcer Uecker 
MILWAUKEE — Bob Uecker has made a 40-year career out of delight­ing baseball fans with his self-depre­cating sense of humor. Even facing heart surgery at the end of the week, that didn’t change. 
Addressing reporters Tuesday after­noon, the Milwaukee Brewers radio announcer opened up by joking that he called a press conference to announce that he was joining the Brewers’ active roster. Then he turned serious — well, as serious as he could be. 
“I’m looking forward to getting it done and getting back to work,” Uecker said. 
The 75-year-old Uecker will have his aortic valve replaced Friday morning, and will be away from the team for up to three months while recovering. 
“I’ve been in baseball 55 years,” Uecker said. “This is all I know. Or want to know, for that matter.” 

page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, April 28, 2010 
NCAA 

NCAA hires Mark Emmert as new president 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — The NCAA found its new president in the same place it got its last one — the university administration office. 
Now, college sports’ largest governing body is hoping Mark Emmert can be just as effective. 
The University of Washington president became the NCAA’s top executive on Tuesday, ending the search for Myles Brand’s succes­sor that began in November. 
“It’s a pleasure and a chal­lenge to follow Myles,” Emmert said. “His legacy is so strong and because of the impact he had on the organization in a relatively short period of time, the founda­tion for me to build on is very, very strong. But it’s a challenge because those are big shoes to fill.” 
Emmert emerged from a field that started with nearly 100 can­didates, was winnowed to 32, and finally down to the handful of contenders who interviewed with the NCAA’s executive com­mittee on Tuesday. 
By late afternoon, Oregon president and committee chair­man Ed Ray called Emmert to offer him the job. An hour later, Emmert was introduced as the NCAA’s fifth CEO. 
Emmert will begin serving his five-year term Nov. 1. He earned $906,500 in total annual com­pensation at Washington, second to only Ohio State’s E. Gordon Gee among public university presidents, but the NCAA did not release the financial details of his contract. 
“We felt he was someone who could stand and represent our organization in virtually any venue,” Ray said after the news conference. “We all feel that this is sort of a bully pulpit type of thing, and you saw how he han­dled the questions today. Many of the questions that were asked were the same questions or sim­ilar questions to what he was asked by the committee.” 
Replacing the first university president to ever lead the NCAA won’t be easy. 
It was Brand who championed landmark academic legislation to put a stronger emphasis on class work and endeared himself to coaches and athletes, surpris­ing some because he had no pre­vious experience running an athletic department. The former Indiana University executive also was revered inside the halls of the NCAA headquarters and by university presidents. 
So when Brand died from pan­creatic cancer on Sept. 16, it left a huge void within the organiza­tion. 
A week later, the NCAA made Jim Isch its interim president. 
Now Emmert faces the daunt­ing challenge of adding teeth to Brand’s policies and trying to carve out his own niche. 
“I want to sit down with the membership and talk about what’s working and what’s not. The fact is that these reforms are so young, that it takes time to measure the impact of them,” Emmert said. “I don’t foresee revolutionary change in terms of academics issues, I see an evolu­tionary change as we go for­ward.” 
Some of the issues haven’t changed. 
Almost immediately upon his introduction, Emmert was asked about the NCAA’s new $10.8 bil­lion television package for the men’s basketball tournament. 
Isch announced the deal last week, causing some to wonder about the big business of college sports. 
“The real question for me is one of intention, what are you raising those dollars for, what are you doing with them?” Emmert said. “I’m very comfort­able with the position we’re in right now.” 
Emmert also showed he was capable of sidestepping other tricky questions, such as the issue of a college football playoff. 

“Do you have any controver­sial questions,” he joked, draw­ing laughter from NCAA employ­ees. “What I look forward to is having conversations with the presidents about what’s in the best interests of their schools, but I do not expect the NCAA to be leading that charge.” 
TENNIS 

Federer loses Rome opener in season’s first clay match 
Associated Press 
ROME — Roger Federer has a long way to go if he wants to successfully defend his French Open title next month. 
In his first singles match of the clay-court season, Federer lost to 40th-ranked Ernests Gulbis of Latvia 2-6, 6-1, 7-5 Tuesday in his Rome Masters opener. 
The top-ranked Swiss will play two more tournaments — in Estoril, Portugal, and Madrid 
— before the start of the French Open on May 23. 
“I hope I can come back from this. That’s usually what I do after a loss like this,” Federer said. “Sometimes it takes a loss to wake up and shake you up for your approach the next week. When you always win, sometimes you forget how hard it is. That’s why today I don’t get too worried about this loss.” 
Gulbis was anything but blase about what happened. 
“I don’t have a word in English for it,” he said. “It’s indescribable.” 
Earlier, Novak Djokovic, seed­ed second and trying to reach a third consecutive final at Foro Italico, defeated France’s Jeremy Chardy 6-1, 6-1; fourth-seeded Andy Murray beat the top Italian, Andreas Seppi, 6-2, 6-4; Lleyton Hewitt, coming back from hip surgery, ousted ninth-seeded Mikhail Youzhny 6-4, 4-6, 6-3; and Victor Hanescu of Romania upset 16th-seeded Juan Monaco 7-6 (4), 6-4. 
This was Federer’s first sin­gles match in nearly a month. He took off several weeks after losing in the fourth round in Key Biscayne, Fla., at the end of March. 
Federer struggled with his serve, landing only 50 percent of his first attempts to the big-serving Gulbis’ 71 percent. In the third set, Federer missed one routine baseline shot after another. 
“My game was definitely not up to speed,” he said. “My serve was not working at all. On clay you can lose the feeling some­times. At one point I tried to go three-quarters speed but that didn’t work, either. So I just kept going for it and hoping that it would come back eventually, and it didn’t unfortunately.” 
Gulbis fought off jitters at the end, winning on his seventh match point after double-fault­ing twice when within a point of victory. 
“I couldn’t put a serve in,” he said. “I was shaking. I didn’t know what to do. It was a terri­ble feeling.” 
Federer teamed with country­man Yves Allegro to win a dou­bles match Monday. They face sixth-seeded Simon Aspelin of Sweden and Paul Hanley of Australia on Wednesday 
“It will give a good chance to forget today and move for­ward,” Federer said. 
A light rain fell during the match on a cool day, but Federer refused to blame the weather. 
“I started well and the condi­tions were kind of like the French Open final last year,” he said. “Actually, I wasn’t too happy that it was slow against a player that likes to end the points quickly.” 
Gulbis also took Federer to a third set before losing in the quarterfinals in Doha, Qatar, in January. His first career title came the next month in Delray Beach, Fla. 
“He has immense power on both sides and one of the fastest serves in the game,” Federer said. “I think he’s got a great future.” “I just started concentrating 


The 21-year-old Gulbis began more on tennis, treating it more working with a new coach in like my job,” Gulbis said. “Last September, and credits former year I didn’t take it as a job. It Argentine pro Hernan Gumy was more like a hobby. I didn’t with his improved play. He also have a system. hired a new fitness coach. “Before I was practicing maybe three days and then going out with friends two days. I’m still not a big tennis freak ... but I have a better system. My team is perfect now. It’s my coach, my fitness coach and my father.” 

Wednesday, April 28, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 
NBA 

Woodson contract talks wait 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA — Hawks coach Mike Woodson said Tuesday there have been no talks on a new con­tract with Atlanta, even amid reports that he'll be a candidate to take another job after the sea­son. 
The most persistent report is that Woodson could wind up as Philadelphia's coach, which is based on Larry Brown leaving Charlotte to become the 76ers' general manager. Brown has denied that he's planning to leave the Bobcats. 
Woodson, who worked as an assistant to Brown in Detroit, said he wants to remain with the Hawks. 
He took over a rebuilding team six years ago and went 13-69, but Atlanta has shown improvement every year since then. The Hawks are tied with Milwaukee in the opening round of the playoffs heading into Game 5 at Philips Arena on Wednesday night. 
“They're out there,” Woodson said, referring to the reports about his future. “But again, my job is right here with the Hawks. I started this gig six years ago and I want to finish it.” 
The Hawks stuck with Woodson through the difficult early years, giving him a two-year contract extension in 2008 shortly after general manager Rick Sund came aboard, even though his record at the time was only 106-222. 
Atlanta posted winning records the last two years, going a com-bined 100-62. The Hawks reached the second round of the playoffs in 2009 and they were the No. 3 seed in the Eastern Conference this year, winning 53 games. 


General manager Rick Sund said he'll wait until after the sea­son before starting any discus­sions on a new deal with Woodson. 
The Hawks are tied 2-2 with Milwaukee in an opening-round series that might have a direct impact on the coach's future. 
“The things that need to be taken care of in the offseason will be taken care of in the offseason,” Sund said. 
The GM stressed that he's merely sticking with the position he's taken all along. 
“I'm a Mike fan,” Sund said. 
“You're in a situation where he's worked with an organization that was totally supportive of him in the early years. When I came in, the first thing I did was give him a new contract. I basically said at the end of the two years, we'll sit down and talk at that time. That's just the way I am with contracts.” 
Woodson certainly feels he deserves a new, longer-term con­tract. 
“I've helped the team grow,” he said. “I think these players respect what we do, me and my staff. I hope ownership steps up and makes it happen to the point where I'm here for a long time, continuing the growth of this team and trying to get it done.” 
Woodson sounded a bit uncom­fortable that he hasn't even had preliminary talks on a new deal. 
NBA 
CelticseliminateHeat in Boston in Game 5 
Associated Press 
BOSTON — The Boston Celtics are heading to the second round of the NBA playoffs and a potential matchup with LeBron James and the Cleveland Cavaliers. 
Ray Allen scored 24 points, making five 3-pointers in the second half, to help Boston beat Miami 96-86 in Game 5 of their first-round playoff series on Tuesday night and eliminate the Heat. With Heat star Dwyane Wade due to become a free agent — along with James — it could be an eventful summer in Miami. 
Boston advanced to the Eastern Conference semifi­nals thanks to 16 points, 12 rebounds and eight assists from Rajon Rondo. Paul Pierce scored 21 for the Celtics, who will play either Cleveland or Chicago; the Cavaliers took a 3-1 lead into Game 5 of their first-round series later Tuesday night. 
Wade scored 31 points — far short of the franchise postseason-record 46 he scored Sunday in Game 4 in Miami to help the Heat stave off elimination. 
The Celtics led by as many as 21 points in the third quarter before Miami scored 16 of the next 18 points to make it 69-62. Wade scored 13 in what turned into a 24­6 run that cut the deficit to 73-70 on his three-point play with 10:14 left in the game. 
Wade scored 20 in the sec­ond half in all; he also fin­ished with 10 assists and eight rebounds. But he was just 10-for-24 shooting and 2 for 7 from 3-point range in the game. He missed all three of his 3-point tries in the fourth quarter as the Heat tried to eat away at the remainder of the Celtics’ big lead. 
Wade, who averaged just under 34 points in the series, now has a chance to test one of the hottest free agent markets in memory. James will be the big prize, of course, but Wade is right behind him and several teams could make a run at both superstars to build a potential contender for years to come. 
The Celtics beat the Bulls last year in an overtime-laden, seven-game series in the first round. Boston hooked up with James and the Cavaliers for seven games in the conference semis in 2008 on the way to the Celtics’ NBA-record 17th championship. 


page 22 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 28, 2010 Wednesday, April 28, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 23 
MLB 

Red Sox defeat Jays behind Buchholz’s gem 
Rays beat Athletics for 12th win in 14 games; Twins ride Liriano’s eight scoreless innings to victory over Tigers 
He walked two, struck out Drew doubled to begin the 
Associated Press 

four and lowered his ERA to seventh and Beltre drew a 
TORONTO — Clay Buchholz 2.19. one -out walk but Marcum pitched eight strong innings, With closer Jonathan fanned Hermida and got pinch -hitter Mike Lowell Papelbon getting a day off Darnell McDonald to pop out. drove in the go-ahead run after working in three of the Wells reached second on with a bases loaded walk and past four games, right-hander Beltre’s throwing error in the the Boston Red Sox beat the Ramon Ramirez worked the eighth but Lyle Overbay struck Toronto Blue Jays 2-1 on ninth for his first save. out looking and Alex Gonzalez Tuesday night. Marcum allowed one run flied out. 
It was Boston’s fifth straight and four hits in seven innings victory in Toronto, and their and has four no-decisions in Rays 8, Athletics 6 fifth consecutive one -run five starts this season. He Pat Burrell and Reid Brignac game. The Red Sox are 4-1 in walked three and struck out homered Tuesday night, help-those games. five. ing the Tampa Bay Rays 
One night after the teams Scott Downs (0-3) replaced match a club record for wins combined for 25 runs and 34 Marcum in the eighth inning in April with an 8-6 victory hits in battering 13 pitchers, and struck out the first batter, over the Oakland Athletics. starters Buchholz and Shaun then gave up consecutive sin-The AL East leaders Marcum gave the bullpens a gles to Dustin Pedroia and improved baseball’s best break. Victor Martinez. Pedroia took record to 15-5. The victory 
Buchholz (2-2) allowed one third when Kevin Youkilis total equals the number they run and seven hits to win for flied to right and Downs left had in the opening month two the first time in three starts. after walking J.D. Drew to years ago, when they made a 
load the bases. Kevin Gregg surprising run to the World came on to face Lowell, who Series. and four RBI’s — both career wide throw on what should’ve batted for David Ortiz, and Burrell’s three-run homer highs — for the A’s. been the final out of the sev­walked him on four pitches, off Ben Sheets (1-2) snapped a Pennington’s RBI double off enth, allowing Michael his first walk this season. 4-4 tie in the third inning. Lance Cormier trimmed Cuddyer to score. Adrian Beltre ended the rally Brignac’s solo shot leading off Oakland’s deficit to 8-5 in the Minnesota played the Tigers with a liner back to the the bottom of the fourth gave sixth. Adam Rosales drove in for the first time since beating mound. right-hander Wade Davis (2-1) a run with his career-best them in the 163rd game last 
Toronto opened the scoring an 8-4 lead. fourth hit — making it 8-6 in year. in the first when Fred Lewis The Rays have won 12 of 14 the eighth — however the A’s The Twins probably will be singled, took second on a and are off to the best start in stranded the potential tying tough to beat again this sea-grounder and scored on a the team’s 13-season history. runs in scoring position when son, winning the first six two-out double by Vernon Nevertheless, attendance for Daric Barton struck out. series of a season for the first Wells. the opener of a two -game Rafael Soriano pitched a time in franchise history, 
Boston tied it with a two-out series against another first-perfect ninth for Tampa Bay, especially if Liriano looks like rally in the second. Ortiz place team drew an earning his fifth save in five he did before elbow surgery walked, went to second on announced crowd of 10,825 to opportunities. stunted his career. Beltre’s single and scored on a Tropicana Field. The Rays played without They have to hope, though, base hit by Jeremy Hermida. Davis weathered a shaky catcher Dioner Navarro, who Justin Morneau’s stiff back 
Toronto put runners at first five innings to win his second began serving a two-game isn’t going to be a lingering and second with two outs in straight decision. He gave up suspension for bumping an problem. The star first base-the fourth and fifth but failed a three -run homer to Cliff umpire during an argument man didn’t play after the fifth to score each time. Pennington, who had four hits last week. He also will sit out inning, but the team said the 
Wednesday’s finale against move was made for precau­the A’s. tionary reasons. 
Jason Bartlett’s two-run sin-The 2006 AL MVP played his gle was the biggest blow in final game last season on Tampa Bay’s four-run second Sept. 12 because of a back inning against Sheets, who injury. He struck out in each allowed eight runs and nine of his three at-bats against hits in four innings. Carlos Verlander after reaching base Pena and John Jaso, filling in in each of Minnesota’s first 19 for Navarro, also drove in games, hitting in 16 of them. runs in the inning. Liriano extended his score-
Davis, however, couldn’t less innings streak to 23 hold the early lead. games in the series opener at 
The A’s struck for four runs Detroit. He had his highest of their own in the third, with strikeout total since matching Pennington’s third homer of a career high with 12 against the season doing most of the Detroit on July 28, 2006, damage. The A’s went on to when he was en route to a 12­load the bases with two outs win season as a rookie phe­on a walk and pair of singles nom. before Gabe Gross lifted a He missed the 2007 season sacrifice fly to make it 4-4. recovering from Tommy John 
Burrell, who’s 8-for-19 with surgery and won a combined three homers lifetime against 11 games the past two sea-Sheets, put Tampa Bay ahead sons. for good. Brignac’s homer If Liriano keeps pitches like leading off the fourth inning this, he might reach that total restored a four-run lead for by the All-Star break. Davis, who yielded four runs The Tigers were helpless at and seven hits. the plate against him — often 
striking out looking — until Twins 2, Tigers 0 Miguel Cabrera led off the 
Francisco Liriano pitched fifth with a double that was eighth scoreless innings, lead-just out of Denard Span’s ing the Minnesota Twins to a reach in center. 2-0 win over the Detroit Rauch preserved his victory Tigers on Tuesday night. after giving up a leadoff walk 
Liriano (3-0) struck out 10 to Johnny Damon in the ninth, and gave up the first of four getting a groundout and two hits in the fifth and walked strikeouts to end the game. only one. Jon Rauch closed Verlander’s best perform-the game for his seventh save. ance of the year was wasted 
Justin Verlander (1-2) gave by poor defense. up an unearned run and He gave up a season-low struck out a season -high four hits, walked three and seven over 5 2-3 innings. didn’t give up an earned run 
Left fielder Ryan Raburn after allowing 17 in his first dropped what would’ve been four starts. the third out of the sixth to let Verlander pitched a perfect Jim Thome score from first first and stranded two run-after he walked. Second base-ners in each of the next three man Scott Sizemore made a innings. 




page 24 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, April 28, 2010 
MLB 

Wilson leads Rangers to victory over White Sox 
Orioles become last team to win first home game; Hernandez allows six hits in Nationals win in Chicago 
starts without allowing runs. double play. 
Associated Press 

The left-hander had thrown 6 A run-scoring grounder by 
ARLINGTON, Texas — Texas 2-3 scoreless innings in his Brett Gardner tied it in the catcher Matt Treanor had a previous start Thursday night third, and a big inning loomed solo homer and a two -run at Boston, and has a 1.75 ERA when Mark Teixeira walked to double for his first extra-base through four starts. load the bases with one out. hits of the season and former After the White Sox loaded But Rodriguez lined out to releiver C.J. Wilson had the bases in the sixth on a hit third and Cano hit a fly ball to another solid start for the batsman, a single and a walk, right. Rangers in a 4-2 victory over Alexei Ramirez had an RBI Posada led off the fourth the Chicago White Sox on single. Wilson then finally got with his fifth homer, his sec-Tuesday night. Lucy out on his 104th pitch of ond in two games. The drive 
Treanor’s big game came the game. He struck out five ended a 2-for-17 slump. hours after the Rangers and walked three. 
optioned Jarrod Rangers rookie first base-Nationals 3, Cubs 1 Saltalamacchia and Taylor man Justin Smoak got his first Livan Hernandez pitched Teagarden, the two catchers major league RBI with a sac-six-hit ball into the eighth on their season-opening ros-rifice fly in the sixth. inning and the Washington ter, to Triple -A Oklahoma Nationals beat the Chicago City. Orioles 5, Yankees 4 Cubs on a chilly Tuesday 
Wilson (2-1) gave up two Cesar Izturis had three night. runs over six innings, striking RBIs, Nolan Reimold singled At 35, Hernandez continues out Donny Lucy to end the in the tiebreaking run during to excel this season after walked Kosuke Fukudome on the lead. sixth with the bases loaded a three-run sixth inning, and struggling last year. And the a 3-2 pitch before Derrek Lee They got triples from two of after going to a 3-0 count and the Baltimore Orioles beat the Nationals are enjoying a bit of popped out. Marlon Byrd then the first three batters, with then having Lucy foul off New York Yankees on Tuesday a renaissance, themselves, grounded to second on a 3-1 Nyjer Morgan driving one to three full-count pitches before night to become the last team with an 11 -10 record that count, putting runners on left-center leading off and finally swinging and missing. in the majors to win at home. matches their best start since second and third, and Aramis scoring on a single by 
Dustin Nippert worked two The victory also gave 2005. Ramirez bounced to first to Desmond. Guzman then scoreless innings before Baltimore (4-16) its first win-Ian Desmond delivered a end the inning. knocked a low slider over Frank Francisco had a perfect ning streak of the season. The pair of RBI singles — one Matt Capps allowed a two-center fielder Byrd’s head for ninth for his first save in Orioles defeated Boston on during a two-run first and out single to Geovany Soto in another triple that made it 2­three chances. Sunday to end a five-game one in the eighth that made it the ninth before striking out 0. 
Francisco lost his closer job skid. 3-1 — and Cristian Guzman pinch-hitter Tyler Colvin for after blowing two save Baltimore was 0-6 at added a run-scoring triple to his major league leading chances the first week of the Camden Yards before holding back another dominant outing ninth save in as many season. Hard-throwing Neftali off New York before a crowd by Hernandez (3-1). chances. That snapped the Feliz, who took over as the of 20,536 on a chilly night. He did not allow an extra-Cubs’ four-game win streak. closer, was unavailable after Jorge Posada homered, and base hit while outpitching Gorzelanny lasted seven pitching the previous two Robinson Cano and Nick Tom Gorzelanny (0 -3) and innings in his longest start games, and giving up back-to-Swisher each had three hits continued to put aside last this season, allowing two back homers in the ninth for the Yankees, who have year’s misery, when he was 9-runs and five hits. He settled inning of a loss to Detroit on lost four of five after an 11-3 12 with a 5.44 ERA for the down after a rough first but is Monday night. start. Mets and Nationals. He left still seeking his first win even 
White Sox left-hander Mark New York scored two after Ryan Theriot led off the though his ERA is just 2.45. Buehrle (2-3) lost his third unearned runs in the ninth eighth with a single down the With the gametime temper-straight start, allowing four after Izturis misplayed a two-right-field line. ature at 43, the Nationals runs over seven innings. out grounder to shortstop, but Tyler Clippard came in and quickly warmed up and took 
Carlos Quentin snapped a 1-Alex Rodriguez grounded into for-34 slide with an infield a fielder’s choice with run-RBI single in the fifth for ners at the corners to end the Chicago, which was coming game. 
off a three-game sweep of Yankees starter Phil Hughes Seattle. allowed one run and two hits 
Treanor put the Rangers in 5 2-3 innings. The right-ahead to stay with a solo hander issued three of his homer in the second, the ball four walks in the first two just clearing the 14-foot wall innings, which elevated his in left field. His double made pitch count and led to an 3-0 in the fourth after Josh early departure. Hamilton and Vladimir As soon as he left, the New Guerrero had consecutive sin-York bullpen gave up the gles and Buehrle threw a wild lead. Boone Logan walked pitch. Luke Scott and was replaced 
Treanor, the husband of by David Robertson (0-1), who two-time Olympic beach vol-hit Ty Wigginton with a pitch leyball gold medalist Misty and gave up successive RBI May-Treanor, was acquired by singles to Rhyne Hughes, the Rangers from Milwaukee Reimold and Izturis. during spring training. He Izturis singled in an was called up April 9 from unearned run in the ninth Oklahoma City when after an error by shortstop Saltalmacchia went on the Derek Jeter. disabled list because of upper Alberto Castillo (1 -0) back stiffness. pitched 1 1-3 innings of one-
It was the sixth start in nine hit relief, Jim Johnson games for Treanor, who worked the eighth and played for Florida from 2004-Alfredo Simon got three outs 08 and started four games for for his first major league Detroit last season. Max save. It was Simon’s first Ramirez, recalled Tuesday appearance in the big leagues from Oklahoma City, is the since undergoing elbow other Rangers catcher. reconstruction surgery last 
The Rangers activated May. Saltalamacchia from the dis-Orioles starter Kevin abled list Tuesday and Millwood gave up two runs optioned him to Oklahoma and five hits in 5 1-3 innings. City, where he had already Millwood has a solid 3.38 ERA appeared in six games on a but has received little offen­rehabilitation assignment. sive support in five starts. Teagarden was hitting only Baltimore went up 1-0 in .037 (1 for 27) with 17 strike-the second inning when Phil outs in 10 games. Hughes gave up two straight 
Wilson, who before the sea-singles, then issued consecu­son hadn’t started since his tive walks to Reimold and 2005 rookie season when he Izturis to force in a run. was coming off Tommy John Hughes avoided further dam-ligament replacement sur-age by getting Adam Jones to gery, has already had two bounce into an inning-ending 




Wednesday, April 28, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 25 page 26 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, April 28, 2010 
MLB 

Garland strikes out 10 in San Diego victory 
Doumit hits grand slam in Pirates’ win over Brewers; Carpenter wins on birthday to propel Cardinals over Braves 
Tony Gwynn led off with a walk 3-2 lead. 
Associated Press 

and stole second before Brendan Donnelly (2-0) 
MIAMI — Jon Garland Hairston’s single off Burke picked up the win when he matched a career high with 10 Badenhop. Two batters later, relieved Lopez with runners at strikeouts, leading the San Gonzalez added an RBI single. first and second and two outs. Diego Padres past the Florida Garland lowered his ERA Donnelly retired pinch-hitter Marlins 4-1 Tuesday night. against the Marlins to 2.14 in Jody Gerut to end the threat. 
Garland (2-2) allowed one five career starts, his lowest Randy Wolf pitched an effec­run, three hits, three walks in against any opponent. tive eight innings when he scat-six innings, tying the record for Hundley drove in the Padres’ tered 10 hits and stranded nine strikeouts he set Aug. 24, 2003 first run in the second, and San Pirates. He surrendered a run against Texas. Diego added another when left in the second on a double by 
Adrian Gonzalez, Jerry fielder Coghlan’s throwing Doumit and sacrifice fly by Hairston and Nick Hundley had error allowed David Eckstein to Akinori Iwamura and Jeff run-scoring hits for San Diego, score from third. Clement’s third home run of the and Padres reliever Luke season, a solo shot in the Gregerson struck out the first Pirates 7, Brewers 3 fourth. Wolf struck out four and two batters he faced in the bot-Ryan Doumit hit a grand slam walked one. tom of the seventh to set a club and Ronny Cedeno had a solo The victory also snapped a record by retiring 26 in a row. homer in a five-run ninth seven-game losing streak for 
Gaby Sanchez snapped the inning to help the Pittsburgh Pittsburgh. streak with a single to right. Pirates snap a 22-game losing The Pirates had lost to the 
Mike Adams pitched a score-streak in Milwaukee with a vic-Brewers 22 straight times at Counsell in the third, but noth-since a 10-game skid June 11­less eighth and Heath Bell fol-tory over the Brewers on Miller Park and are 13-37 ing else until George Kottaras 22, 2006. The Braves coughed lowed in the ninth for his fifth Tuesday night. against Milwaukee overall since hit a game-tying solo shot lead-up an early lead for the second save in six chances, holding the Cedeno crushed the second 2007. The Brewers’ home win-ing off the seventh. After a straight game, 2-0 after three Marlins to six hits a day after pitch from Trevor Hoffman (1-ning streak against Pittsburgh walk to Counsell with two outs innings Tuesday and 3-0 after they scored 10 runs on 12 hits. 2) over the wall in left to tie the was the longest by one team in the seventh, Karstens gave five on Monday. 
Right fielder Will Venable game. After Andrew McCutchen over another since the Indians way to Joel Hanrahan. Derek Lowe (3-2) was one of made a diving catch to end the struck out, Andy Laroche sin-beat the St. Louis Karstens went six 2-3 seven pitchers who have game with two runners on. gled for the fourth time and Browns/Baltimore Orioles 27 innings, walked four and struck thrown a no-hitter making 
Anibal Sanchez (1-2) allowed Lastings Millege doubled. consecutive times from 1952-out four. starts on Tuesday. He retired three runs, two earned in 6 1-3 Garrett Jones was walked 54. The Brewers had outscored the first 10 batters before Ryan innings. He struck out seven. intentionally before Doumit Pirate starter Jeff Karstens, a the Pirates 53-4 in their first Ludwick homered and was 
Garland allowed four of the drove a 2-0 pitch into the sec-non-roster invitee to spring four games against each other. chased in a four-run sixth that first six batters to reach base ond-tier of the bleachers for his training, continued his come-put St. Louis ahead 5-2. before retiring 12 straight. second career grand slam. back with a solid first start of Cardinals 5, Braves 4 Cardinals manager Tony La 
Cameron Maybin and Chris Home runs have been the season. Chris Carpenter won on his Russa batted the pitcher eighth Coghlan hit consecutive singles Hoffman’s downfall in all three The 27-year-old right-hander 35th birthday and Yadier for the first time since last July to start the sixth. Garland limit-blown saves. He’s now given up was called up earlier in the day Molina had the go-ahead hit for before the Matt Holliday trade. ed the damage by getting five of them with the win on the from Triple-A Indianapolis. He the second straight game in the He needed four pitchers to exit Hanley Ramirez to hit into a line. His ERA skied from 9.00 to was 3-4 with a 5.16 ERA in 13 St. Louis Cardinals’ victory over the seventh as the Braves run-scoring double play that 13.50. starts last season before the the sagging Atlanta Braves on scored twice to cut the gap to made it 2-1 before striking out Prince Fielder greeted reliev-Pirates removed him from the Tuesday night. 5-4 and Jason Heyward took a Jorge Cantu to end the inning. er Javier Lopez with a homer to 40-man roster Nov. 20. Atlanta has totaled 13 runs called third strike against 
The Padres tacked on two deep center in the bottom of Karstens gave up a run on during a seven-game losing Trever Miller with the bases more runs in the seventh when the eighth to give the Brewers a doubles by Wolf and Craig streak, the franchise’s worst loaded. 

NBA 

Cavs eliminate Bulls, will face Celtics next 
postseason. “It’s going to be a
Associated Press 
hard-fought series. It should 

CLEVELAND — LeBron be fun.” James just missed a triple-Derrick Rose scored 31 double despite an apparently points and Luol Deng 26 for sore right elbow, and the the Bulls, who had several Cleveland Cavaliers advanced shots roll in and out in the to a playoff date with Boston final minutes. by beating Chicago 96-94 in Delonte West had 16 points Game 5 on Tuesday night in and Shaquille O’Neal added perhaps Vinny Del Negro’s 14 while racking up fouls final game as Bulls coach. against Chicago’s big men. 
James, favoring a tender The Cavs were intent on right elbow that appears to closing out the series at home hurt worse than he’s letting but they couldn’t shake the on, scored 19 points — 16 in Bulls, who were trying to send the second half — and added the series back to Chicago for 10 rebounds and nine assists Game 6. as the Cavs finally saddled the When Jamison buried a 3­stubborn Bulls to win the pointer with 3:30 left, series 4-1. Unable to lift his Cleveland was up 93-84, and right arm, James was forced for the first time all night to shoot a free throw left-Cavaliers fans finally started handed with 7.8 seconds left. thinking about a matchup 
Antawn Jamison scored 25 with the Celtics, who eliminat­points for Cleveland, which ed Miami earlier. will face the Celtics, reuniting The Bulls, though, had other teams that don’t like each plans. other and who played a testy Deng hit a jumper and two seven-game series in 2008. free throws before Rose, who 
Game 1 is Saturday. made Cleveland defenders 
“A lot of people are saying look silly all series, made four they’re too old, but we know straight from the line to pull they’re going to come out and the Bulls within 93-92 with give us their best shot,” said 1:32 remaining. Two free Jamison, who was not with throws by James then gave the Cavs the last time Cleveland a three-point lead Cleveland met Boston in the with 1:11 left. 

Wednesday, April 28, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 27 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles faceAlbion in MIAA tournament 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
The No. 5-seed Belles will begin their quest for a con­ference championship Friday with a first-round match against Albion at Holland Christian High School in Holland, Mich. 
Saint Mary’s (11-8, 4-4 MIAA) enters the tourna­ment on a three-match win streak that included a Monday victory over Olivet to close the regular season. 
“It’s always good to finish on a winning note,” Belles coach Dale Campbell said. “It ’s good for our confi ­dence going into the tour­nament.” 
Although the Belles are in the bottom half of a confer­ence of eight teams, they expect to come out on top against Albion (11-8, 5-3). 
“We want to pull off some upsets, but we don’t see 
ourselves as the under ­dogs,” Campbell said. “We expect to win and will have to take care of the details necessary to get that done.” 
Saint Mary’s will come in with the same approach that they have taken into every match this season — strong play in doubles, solid singles performances and an overall offensive style of play. Campbell said he wants his players to turn up the intensity to prove to the rest of the MIAA that they are a force to be reckoned with. 

“We are playing with the idea of earning respect,” Campbell said. “It will not be given to us, but we want to go after it. We have to step things up a notch.” 
The Belles will have two practices this week and will not deviate from the norm of everyday preparation. In terms of actual match play, Campbell does not expect a serious deviation from their normal performance, either. 
“We just need to be more assertive and raise our expectations and demands 
o n  o u r s e l v e s , ”  C a m p b e l l  
said.  
I f  t h e  B e l l e s  c a n  b e a t  

Albion, their road to an MIAA title will run right through national power Calvin. 
But that has not fazed Campbell, who has confi­dence in his team. 
“We expect to do great things this weekend, ” Campbell said. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
CLUB SPORTS 

Squash receives recognition 
Special to the Observer 
The 2009-2010 Notre Dame men’s and women’s squash teams were honored Thursday, as a team sweat­shirt was unveiled on the wall of Hot Box Pizza restau­rant in Eddy Street Commons. 
The team gathered at the pizzeria for its end of season banquet and to sign the sweatshirt. “We are thrilled,” Irish coach Geoff McCuen said. “There are only four teams represented in the collection, and now squash is right up there with football, basketball and hockey.” 
The 2009-2010 season was a tremendous campaign for the entire program. The club attracted a record number of members in the fall, enough to field two full nine-person teams for both men and women. 
With the increased interest in squash across the campus, the Irish were able to send the squads to several College Squash Association events around the country, including the National Team Championships held at Yale University in February. This was the first year that a full women’s team participated, and McCuen attributes this feat to the leadership of the club’s co-president, senior captain Kristine So. 
The teams are already excited about next season, which kicks off early with their participation in the U.S. Open to be held in Chicago September 25 through October 3. Other highlights include a women’s team trip to the east coast and a men’s team trip to the West Coast Round Robin in Seattle, Wash. next January. For more information about Notre Dame Squash, please visit the club website at www.nd.edu\~squash or find the group page on Facebook. 
NHL 

Canuckseagerforplayoffrematch 
Associated Press 
VANCOUVER, British Columbia — The Vancouver Canucks got what they wanted 
— a chance to pay back the Chicago Blackhawks. 
The postseason rematch was set Monday night when the sec­ond-seeded Blackhawks elimi­nated the Nashville Predators. Now Chicago will try to send the Canucks into summer vacation for the second straight year. 
The Blackhawks took care of Vancouver in six games when the clubs met in the 2009 Western Conference semifi­nals—the same round as this year’s matchup. 
“There is a lot of history and bad blood there,” Canucks defenseman Shane O’Brien said Tuesday, two days after the Canucks finished off the Los Angeles Kings in six games. “Every guy in the room remem­bers the feeling of leaving Chicago last year. It was one of the worst feelings I had ever been through. 
“We definitely want to get some redemption on those guys.” 
The ill will is felt on the other side, too. The Blackhawks, who will have home-ice advantage in the series, don’t care for the Canucks much, either. 
“It’s pretty easy to say that,” Chicago defenseman Duncan Keith said. 


page 28 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, April 28, 2010 

Coyne 
continued from page 32 
over plays where we didn’t execute right after that. There wasn’t consistency in a number of aspects” 
In the upcoming game against the Huskies, Coyne said she will look to her veterans to demonstrate the composure necessary under immense pressure. 
“It’s the captains, as well as the junior class, that we look to as leaders,” Coyne said. “The juniors have championship experience too. They’ve been in the big time.” 
That experience will come in handy on the road against a Huskies team that is coming off a 12-11 overtime win over Cincinnati. The Huskies will look to slow down an Irish team that is riding the hot hand of junior Shaylyn Blaney. 

“I think they’re going to try to stop our fast break game, they’re really going to pack it in defensively,” Coyne said. “We need to be on our game defensively, we need to make sure we’re moving. Other than that, we expect them to double [senior Gina Scioscia] and Shaylyn and to pressure [sophomore Maggie Tamasitis]. We just have to be able to block everything out. We know what’s at stake.” 
The Irish take on Connecticut Saturday at noon. The Big East Tournament gets underway in Piscataway, N.J., on May 6. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles seekingbidto MIAA tournament 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s will host Calvin in an MIAA doubleheader Wednesday as the Belles look to improve their NCAA tournament résumé. 
The Belles (19-15, 8-4) enter the game in position to gain entry into the MIAA tournament for the fifth time in seven years. Belles coach Erin Sullivan said the conference tournament is her team’s primary focus. 
“Our goal is first and foremost to qualify for the tournament,” Sullivan said. 
Although Calvin (10-19, 5-7) is near the bottom of the conference standings, the Knights have given the top teams in the conference tough games. Sullivan said they could be a difficult test for the Belles. 
“Calvin is a tough team,” Sullivan said. “[Calvin] played Alma, currently first in our confer­ence, really tough. We will have to keep battling to win these.” 
The Belles are paced by senior outfielder Ashley Peterson, who was recently named MIAA Position Player of the Week. The Belles are currently first in the conference in batting average, slugging percentage, on base per­centage and triples. Sullivan said her team’s offensive onslaught can continue against Calvin. 

“We can always count on our hitters to do a lot of damage to the other team,” Sullivan said. 
Monica Palicki and Angela Gillis are scheduled to be the two start­ing pitchers for Saint Mary’s today. Sullivan is confident in her two pitcher’s ability to continue their success. 
“Monica and Angela have both really bounced back with strong outings against Olivet and Hope in the last couple of weeks, so I am very confident in their pitching,” Sullivan said. 
Calvin’s probable starter is freshman Shelby Mast. 
“[Shelby] is a cancer survivor having had a recent surgery to remove her tumor in her chest,” Sullivan said. “She is having a strong finish after pitching nearly every inning for Calvin.” 
The first game will begin Wednesday at 3:30 p.m at Saint Mary’s. 
Contact Michael Todisco mtodisco@nd.edu 

ND TRACK AND FIELD 

ND to compete in tournament 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
This weekend the Irish travel to Cincinnati to com­pete against a field of 15 in the Big East Conference championships. With a regu­lar season full of an impres­sive number of top-five and even first -place finishes, each athlete is looking to emerge with good results. 
The men won the Big East Indoor championship two months ago, and are now looking to repeat their suc­cess. Sophomore Johnathan Shawel won the men’s 1,000 meter, senior Jack Howard won the men’s 800, senior Eric Quick won the men’s triple jump, junior Justin Schneider won the men ’s heptathlon and sophomore Kevin Schipper won the men’s pole vault. 
Heading into the spring season, the men hold 26 conference qualifier spots, 13 of which are ranked in the top five in their respec­tive events. The women hold 17 spots, racking up eight top five positions. 
“Before the Big East con­ference meet, all the ath ­letes are preparing physical­ly by focusing on our train­ing, and mentally by rehearsing the upcoming performance, ” Schipper said. “We try to go into the championships well-rested and with a sense of confi­dence.” 
In the outdoor events, Howard holds the No. 1 posi­tion in the men’s 800 with a time of 1:48.60 going into the weekend. Quick holds the second spot in men ’s triple jump with a mark of 
15.46 meters, while Schipper stands tied at the second spot alongside his brother, senior Matt Schipper, at 5.20 meters. 
For the women, senior Joanna Schultz stands at the No. 1 position for the women’s 400 with a time of 58.13. 
For the seniors, these championships mark not 
only a chance to improve, but a chance to do their best one last time at the Big East. 
“I feel going into my last Big East championships ever that I know it is possible for the team to perform at their best and to go way above and beyond their goals, giv­ing them much confidence going into the national pre­liminaries,” Matt Schipper said. 
The championships kick off 
Friday  at  11  a.m.  and will  
c o n t i n u e  S a t u r d  a y  a n d  
Sunday.  

Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 



Wednesday, April 28, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 29 page 30 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, April 28, 2010 
seeing that.” Corrigan said. “Offensively, as they hope to close out the 
Corrigan said capitalizing when we get an opportunity season in spectacular fash-
Shutout Syracuse 

on opportunities will be to score, we need to keep the ion. 
continued from page 32 important for Notre Dame to pressure on them by getting “There’s no question it’s a pull off the upset. Allowing a our shots on cage and con-game with a lot of excite-hander Cole Johnson, who 
continued from page 32 

as opposed to a slow half-potent Orange offense second verting a number of those ment,” Corrigan said. “More was held on a strict pitch 
field offense, contributing to chances could create a big opportunities.” than that, for us it’s a chance count of 30 pitches. Johnson 
some highlight-reel offensive hole for the Irish, while con-The clash will also be tele-to establish ourselves as a excelled in that time, fanning 
plays. verting offensive chances will vised nationally live in prime-clear tournament team.” three batters and giving up 
“It’s a very fast-paced, very be crucial in a game that time on ESPNU, underscoring The Irish take on the only two hits and no runs. 
exciting way to play, and could turn into a shootout. the magnitude of this game. Orange today at 7 p.m. in “It was exciting to just see 
that’s what they’re best at,” “Defensively, when we get a The Irish look to feed on the Arlotta Stadium. him back on the mound,” 
Corrigan said. “They really stop, we need to translate excitement from the crowd to Schrage said. “A key will be 
play 110 yards of lacrosse, that stop into a clear and an give them the boost required Contact Allan Joseph at to see how he feels tomor­
and I think people will enjoy offensive possession,” to qualify for postseason play, ajoseph2@nd.edu row. I think he pitched better in the second inning than in the first inning, he got a little bit looser and looked a little 
the team. She wants to do game where she didn’t let up we put ourselves in a good more fluid.” 
her part, and carry the a single run, she comes back position for the postseason.” Even more exciting were 
Badgers 

weight for the program,” to practice and looks at The Irish will take to the the signs of pitching depth 
continued from page 32 Ganeff said. “I don’t think whatever she needs to do to field at Melissa Cook Stadium coming from the Irish, as 
she knows she’s broken so get a little better each time,” at 3 p.m. for the doublehead­both junior righty Ryan 
road, but Ganeff said they many records. She’s just Ganeff said. er against Bowling Green Sharpley (two hits, one walk, 
could pose a threat. doing her job and that’s how These final three games, Wednesday, and at 4 p.m. two strikeouts) and sopho­
“Wisconsin is always a she sees it.” followed by one final Big East Thursday against the more lefty Joe Spano (two 
fight-to -the-end kind of a Another Irish player will be series at St. John’s, mark the Badgers. hits, five strikeouts) pitched 
team,” Ganeff said. searching to break a differ-conclusion of the regular sea-“It just gets harder from more than three innings 
Senior Christine Lux will ent record this week. Junior son and the final tweaks this point forward,” Ganeff without giving up a run. 
look to break the program pitcher Jody Valdivia tied the before the postseason. said. “Everyone we play has “The other thing that was 
record for most career RBIs season shutout record last “I think for us the most that sense of urgency, every really encouraging was 
during the upcoming series. weekend against Villanova. A important thing form this games going to be a cat fight Sharpley and Spano, ” 
With 64, she is currently tied potential 16th shutout point forward is just to win,” because you don’t want to Schrage said. “If those guys 
with a record set 11 seasons against either the Falcons or Ganeff said. “Everyone’s lose this late in the season.” throw like that, that really 
ago. the Badgers would earn her working at it, especially gives us some pitching depth. 
“Lux wants to show up the Irish record. when it comes to the top 25 Contact Molly Sammon at That is a good hitting club 
everyday and contribute to “Even if [Valdivia] has a teams. We want to make sure msammon@nd.edu over there. They came in hit­ting .324 and they are lead­ing the MAC.” 
The Irish were able to take the game right to Toledo in the first inning, opening with a lead-off double from senior left -fielder Ryan Connolly who promptly scored after a single from freshman second baseman Frank Desico and an RBI single from senior first baseman David Mills. Desico was then able to score 
on 
a throwing error by Toledo shortstop Jared Hoying. 

The Irish kept the pressure 

on 
in the second inning, notching two more runs. Toledo pitcher Cody Umbright was able to settle in after that however, not allowing another run in his seven innings pitched. 


That lead would be enough, as the Irish pitching was phenomenal. The Irish added five runs in the eighth inning, including a two-run, bases loaded single from Connolly. 
“Connolly getting that bases loaded hit in the eighth inning was really big, ” Schrage said. “We have been struggling with runners in scoring position, and him stepping up and getting that hit really relaxes the team a little bit and gets us going.” 
Senior righty Steven Mazur came in for the ninth and pitched a 1-2-3 inning to close out the game. 
Next up for the Irish is a matchup with Valparaiso (17-21) who Schrage believes will be another good test for his pitching, especially prob­able starter junior right-han­der Todd Miller. 
“Valparaiso is a lot better team than they have been,” Schrage said. “They have a pretty good offensive lineup.” 
Schrage likes the look of his team going into the weekend series against St. John’s (26-12, 10-5 Big East) that is crucial for the Notre Dame’s conference position­ing. 
“This team is playing a lit­tle bit more relaxed right now and a little bit more confident,” Schrage said. 
First pitch against Valparaiso is Wednesday at 7 
p.m. in Gary, Ind. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 


Wednesday, April 28, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 31 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 





JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Wednesday, April 28, 2010 page 32 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Backs against the wall 
ND one win away from NCAAtournamentbid 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
With No. 19 Notre Dame’s postseason hopes hanging in the balance, No. 2 Syracuse will visit sold -out Arlotta Stadium Saturday in one of the most anticipated season finales in program history. Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said he hopes a large contin­gent of students will attend and make “The Lot” an intim­idating venue for the Orange. 
“It’s going to be a great crowd. There’s going to be a lot of people there,” Corrigan said. “There’s no question that our guys want to play in front of their fellow students. That’s what it’s all about as a college athlete.” 
Though a visit from the perennial powerhouse Orange (11-1, 4-0 Big East) would be an extremely important game under any circumstances, Notre Dame 
VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer 

(7-5, 2-3) has a special sense Senior midfielder Grant Krebs makes a cut during Notre Dame’s 11-3 win over of urgency in Saturday’s con-Providence on April 17th. test. A win could mean quali­fication for the NCAA tourna-to the tournament,” Corrigan Big East contests by comfort-entertaining dynamic for the ment, while a loss could said. “That’s the position we able margins. But the Orange fans in Arlotta Stadium. mean the Irish would likely want to be in, and we’ve got have only dropped one game Syracuse keeps the tempo be left out of the postseason the chance to do that our-all season, a tight 11-10 loss and pressure up, looking to in a disappointing end to the selves.” at No. 1 Virginia. create plays in transition season. The Irish bring some Syracuse’s style of play will from anywhere on the field 
“There’s no question that if momentum into the contest, pose a challenge for the Irish we win Saturday, we’re going having won two consecutive but should also provide an see SYRACUSE/page 30 

ND SOFTBALL 
Teamcloses outregular season 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
Coming off of a three-game sweep of conference rival Villanova, the No. 25 Irish hope to continue their suc­cess by taking on Bowling Green and Wisconsin in their final home games of the sea­son. 
“For everyone that comes to play us at Melissa Cook Stadium, we never think that any of them are going to be easy wins,” Irish assistant coach Kris Ganeff said. “They’ll throw everything that they have at us.” 
Notre Dame (38-9, 14-4 Big East) welcomes Bowling Green (10-20) Wednesday for a doubleheader in which the Irish appear to have the upper hand. The Falcons have yet to win an away game this season. 
“I know that [Bowling Green] always has a competi­tive team that comes at you with everything they have,” Ganeff said. “They usually have a few power hitters on their team.” 
The Irish take on Wisconsin Thursday. The Badgers (14­
27) are struggling this season with only three wins on the 
see BADGERS/page 30 


BASEBALL 

Johnson’s return boosts Irish 
By JARED JEDICK 
Senior Sports Writer 
The Irish put up a com ­plete all-around game yes­terday evening against Toledo, shutting out the Rockets en route to a 9-0 victory. 
The Irish (18-22, 7-8 Big East) jumped on Toledo (23­
17) early in the first two innings with four runs to build a lead they would not relinquish all night. 
“To jump out on Toledo like we did in the first two innings, I was happy with that, ” Irish coach Dave Schrage said. 
Returning to the mound after a shoulder injury for the Irish was junior right-
see SHUTOUT/page 30 


JULIE HERDER/The Observer Junior pitcher Cole Johnson delivers a pitch during Notre Dame’s 9-0 shutout of Toledo Tuesday. 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Squadhopes to avoid tiebreaker with win 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
No. 14 Notre Dame is looking at Saturday’s game at Connecticut as a must-win, Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. 
After a road loss to Rutgers, Notre Dame (10-5, 5-2 Big East) must beat the Huskies (9­7, 2-5) to guarantee itself a spot in the Big East tourna­ment. A loss would subject the Irish to a tiebreaker. 
“This game, we just need to win,” Coyne said. “If we lose we drop back into a three-way tie and we haven’t even looked at the tiebreaker, which is goal differential, so we just need to go out there and take care of business.” 
After reeling off a string of five victories that included a shutout of Villanova — the first ever in conference history — and a defeat of No. 9 Syracuse, the Irish experienced a let­down against Rutgers on the road. Coyne said the defeat was disappointing because the Irish lost control of their own destiny in the seeding by fail­ing to put together a consistent effort. 
“When you lose a game the way we did against Rutgers, it is particularly disappointing because we had always said we just needed to win to con­trol our destiny,” Coyne said. “We looked at plays where we executed in the film and went 
see COYNE/page 28 






