the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


SMC Stars help make ‘wishes ’ come true 

By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
After being inspired by some family members involved with the Make-A-Wish Foundation, Saint Mary’s College senior Stephanie Dolik decided to start the SMC Stars — a club designed to grant wishes for children with life-threatening medical conditions. 
Joined by seniors Sara Casey and Lindsay Morrin as well as sophomore Anne Bolitho, Dolik, who serves as the club’s president, founded the SMC Stars in November 2009. 
The club has two advisors — Professor Joyce Hicks of Saint Mary’s College and Bobbie O’Conner, a representative from the Make-A-Wish Foundation of Indiana. 
The club’s first “Wish kid” visited campus in November. Jacob Krauss, dreamed of doing one thing in South Bend: playing with the Notre Dame Marching Band. 
The SMC Stars planned an additional event to make Krauss’ weekend special. 
“We got to meet [Krauss] and we kind of contributed to his weekend a little bit by throwing him a bowling event because his favorite sport is bowling,” Dolik said. “That was our first experience inter­acting with a Wish kid and we had a really good turn out and I think people are getting real­ly excited about future events.” 
According to Bolitho, anoth­er event the Stars worked on was selling ornaments for a Wish tree before Winter Break. The club appeared in the Noble Family Dining Hall to display their Wish tree and spread the word about the club. 
Dolik said the club hopes to “grant as many wishes as pos­sible” as their long term goal. 
Though the Stars were cre­ated in November, their first meeting took place after Winter Break. The club has 20 members. 
“It’s a little challenging because the other Make-A-Wish clubs at other schools we looked at are from much larg­er universities so we have to compare it to what we can do here,” Morrin said. 
Currently, the group has not 
see STARS/page 9 




Keenan Revue loses venue 
SMC: Variety show’s content ‘incongruent’ with mission of College 
By KATIE PERALTA 
Assistant News Editor 

The annual and controversial crowd favorite, the Keenan Revue, originally presented in Washington Hall and most recently in Saint Mary’s O’Laughlin Auditorium, will once again have to find a new venue. 
Saint Mary’s administrators have announced the content of the variety show is not congruent with the College’s mission state­ment and therefore their annual contract will not be renewed. 
“To host it is counterproductive [for the College],” senior Tim Treat, director of this year’s Revue said. “They stressed that the decision was made before this year’s Revue and it’s a decision the cabinet talks about every year.” 
Treat said in a meeting with Keenan representatives and hall rector Fr. Dan Nolan, College offi­cials said the general content of the Revue from year to year shaped their decision to discon­tinue the contract. 
“They stressed that it was not a particular year, skit or joke that was the straw that broke the camel’s back,” Treat said. “They mentioned the disparaging remarks about women and sexu­ality in the show.” 
In a recently released state­ment, Shari Rodriguez, vice presi­dent of College relations, articu­lated the deviation from the 
see REVUE/page 6 


STUDENT SENATE 



Group passes amnesty resolution 
By SCOTT ENGLERT 
News Writer 
The Student Senate resumed debate and voted on a resolution concerning med­ical amnesty and discussed the logistics of a new off-campus housing Web site at Wednesday’s meeting. 
The intended resolution, proposed by Nick Ruof, the chair of the Committee on Residence Life, seeks “that [Office of Residence Life and Housing] and residence hall staff adopt a medical 
see SENATE/page 9 



New site to aid in housing search 

By LIZ O’DONNELL 
News Writer 
Students looking to move off campus now have a University-sponsored Web site to utilize while conducting their search for housing. 
With the launch of the new Web site, rent.nd.edu, Notre Dame students have access to listings of local houses and apartments for rent. 
Joey Rich, one of the devel­opers of the Web site, said the site aims to put different off-campus housing options online. 
“The basic idea we’re trying to do is put all the different housing options into an easy to use Web interface,” he said. “That way students can use one Web site instead of using different housing providers.” 
The effort was coordinated in part with student govern­ment. Student body president Grant Schmidt said the idea for the Web site came up over a year ago from two different sources. 
“Northwestern University already had the concept,” he said. “It also came up in the campaign from one of the other tickets, so [student body vice president Cynthia Weber] and I acknowledged it and decided to implement it.” 
Rich said he spoke with Weber and Schmidt about the project last year and began work on the Web site. He said this year the project seemed even more important so he began to work on it as part of a class assignment. 
“This year we decided it was valuable to students and I decided working on it as part of a database complexes class,” he said. “After the class was over, I continued working on it, adding new features and getting the domain name set up.” 
One of the advantages of the new Web site is that it allows students to compare prices in one location. 
“By putting prices and other features in one location it encourages competition among different housing complexes whereas previously students would have to call regular housing complexes,” Rich said. 
Another new feature allows students who create accounts 
see WEB SITE/page 9 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SGA approves classes reform page 3  Florence + the Machine review page 12  Loss at Louisville page 24  Viewpoint page 10 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Caring about real news 
Forget Haiti, and forget health­care. By the looks of my news feed, people have moved on to worrying about something they really care about: the new Facebook profile layout. 
Apparently, it’s the most radical change in, well, anything since … the last time Facebook changed its layout. And before that, prob-Allan Joseph ably the American Revolution. Sports 

Come on, peo-Production ple. This really Editor isn’t that big of a deal. Let’s be hon­est. Within a couple weeks, we’ll all get used to the new, more promi­nent search bar, the fact that we can now see friends we often chat right on the home page, the new notification area and the extra click it takes to log out. Okay, that last one is actually really annoying, but other than that, the changes are pretty useful. We’ll all join a couple “GET YOUR OLD FACEBOOK LAY­OUT BACK” groups, invite all our friends in a futile attempt to get said layout back, and when it does­n’t come back, move on with our Facebook lives. I mean, we did it the first time. And however many other times it changed. 
Remember when the Wall was first integrated with the (gasp!) News Feed? And (oh, no!) we first got a different tab for information and photos? We all made a huge deal about the “new” layout then, and now we want to go back to it. In fact, I’m sure Facebook will change something again before the football team’s 2011 bowl game (crossing my fingers it’s in 2011), and we’ll all complain about it again. A few weeks from now, we’ll become attached to new Facebook and become a fan of “SIGN THE PETTI­TION TO STOP CHANGING FACE­BOOKKKKK PLEEZE,” which will, unfortunately, have thousands of fans. It’s just the way things work. 
And on the positive side of things, the new privacy settings make the time-honored tradition of Facebook stalking much easier. Yeah, we’ve all done it. That cute girl you met (but don’t really remember talking to) at the party last night? She probably didn’t update her privacy settings, so now you and your friends can nurse your hangovers while clicking through her profile pictures and discovering that, well, maybe she wasn’t as cute as you thought. But hey, you wouldn’t know that if it wasn’t for new Facebook. So give thanks for new Facebook, maybe even dedicate a Facebook status to it. Just remem­ber that when it happens again, you should embrace those changes too. Because you’ll probably end up lik­ing them in the end. And maybe, just maybe, they’ll go back to a one-click logout. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 

CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT 80S TREND  O YOU WISH WOULD MAKE A COMEBACK? 







Johanna Kirsch  Jordan Matulis  Ryan Lion  Sarah Spieler  Stephen Santay  
senior  sophomore  freshman  sophomore  junior  
McGlinn  Howard  Sorin  P. W.  Alumni  
“Power Ballads.  “Aerobics wear.  “Mullets and  “Jellies.  “I miss the  
I love a  Let’s get  rat tails.”  Whoever said  party in the  
good power  physical.”  that Crocs were  back ...”  
ballad ...”  the new Jellies  
was seriously  

disturbed.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

TOM LA/The Observer Sophomores Nick Burley, left, and Grayson Duren playfully hunt a possum on North Quad Wednesday night. Although they seem to be closing in, the possum escaped unharmed. 


OFFBEAT 

Dog hitched a ride from N.M., traveled 1,200 miles 
NEW ORLEANS — The dogs in New Orleans’ Carnival pet parade includ­ed a pooch that hitched a ride 1,200 miles from Taos, New Mexico, to the city where his 26-year-old mas­ter had hitchhiked weeks earlier. Stephan Soleas came to New Orleans for a few weeks of visits and music. He said his 6-year­old Labrador mix, Charlie, went missing days after he left. 
Charlie was found by a couple vacationing in Taos. The couple saw a collarless dog and tried to find its owner, but the veterinarian didn’t have a microchip scanner. 
The couple gave up their airline tickets, rented a car and made the 3-day drive back to New Orleans with the dog. Incidentally, they also named the dog Charlie. 
Man named Robin Hood accused of identity theft 
DENVER — This Robin Hood is accused of stealing 
— and not to give to the poor. Authorities said a 34-year-old named Robin Joshua Hood found some­one’s wallet in downtown Denver and apparently began using the man’s name in a ploy to avoid being caught on a war­rant. Hood told investiga­tors he was being investi­gated for drug charges. 
Hood was charged Friday with identity theft and impersonation. 
Authorities said Hood’s true identity was uncov­ered after an employee at a record store stopped him as he allegedly was leav­ing without paying for three baseball caps on Jan. 6. He was issued a court summons in that case. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Friday saturday 



IN BRIEF 
A lecture titled “Business on the Frontlines: Reports from the Field” will be held in C­103 Hesburgh Center for International Studies today at 

12:30 p.m. 
The Second Annual Student Health Fair “How the Health are You?” will be held today at 3:30 p.m. in Rolfs Sports and Recreation Center. 
“Blockading the Border and Human Rights” will be held at 4 p.m. today. The lecture will be held in rooms 210 to 214 McKenna Hall. 
The film “Sin Nombre” will be shown at 6:30 p.m. and 
9:30 p.m. today in the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. To purchase tickets call 574-631-2800. 
Aspen Santa Fe Ballet will perform at 7 p.m. in the Decio Mainstage Theatre today. To order tickets call 574-631­2800. 
This week’s SUB movie is “The Blind Side.” It will be shown in 101 DeBartolo Hall at 10 p.m. today, and admis­sion costs $3. 
“Bridging Majors Seminar” will be held at 6:30 p.m. today in Spes Unica 135 at Saint Mary’s College. 
A workshop titled “Writing Matters” will be held at 7 p.m. today in the Academic Resource Center Annex in Madeleva Hall at Saint Mary’s College. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to 

sunday monday 

Atlanta 52 / 26 Boston 45 / 30 Chicago 35 / 21 Denver 42 / 20 Houston 65 / 40 Los Angeles 61 / 52 Minneapolis 26 / 13 New York 43 /29 Philadelphia 41 / 26 Phoenix 76 / 52 Seattle 55 / 38 St. Louis 36 /20 Tampa 61 / 41 Washington 42 / 27 



Landlord Kramer sells portion of portfolio 
By JOSEPH McMAHON 
Associate News Editor 
Local landlord Mark Kramer, owner of Kramer Properties, LLC, has decided to sell a portion of his fixed asset portfolio includ­ing Notre Dame apartments and about 50 houses. 
Beginning on March 1, Campus Apartments, a national company, will manage the houses. 
“I actually sold a portion of my portfolio and the new owners have chosen Campus Apartments to manage them,” Kramer said. 
Kramer Properties announced the transfer on Feb. 11 via e­mail to all affected tenants. In the e-mail, Kramer assured stu­dents the terms of the leases they signed with him would still be valid. 
“I am personally working directly with the company to ensure that your transition is seamless and that the same level of quality service continues dur­ing your tenure,” Kramer said in the e-mail. “Please be assured, the terms of the lease you have signed with Kramer Properties, LLC will in no way be affected by this change.” 
Kramer said tenants shouldn’t be concerned about rent hikes after the transfer. 
“The rents remain the same, the terms of the lease remain the same,” he said. “It’s just a matter of a different company that will be managing their particular property. It will not change any­thing for the students this year, next year, or any of the students that have signed up in advance for the 2011-12 school year.” 
In addition, Kramer stressed he would still continue to own and manage approximately 75 homes and Lafayette Square Town Homes. 
“I have not transferred all of my properties,” he said. “In fact, not even the majority of my properties have been transferred or sold.” 
Kramer said there was no hid­den motivation behind his deci­sion to sell, but rather, he decid­ed to take advantage of an opportunity. 
“There was no underlying rea­son necessarily,” he said. “Things like this happen all the time, and you have an opportu­nity to sell something and the price is right and the time is right, you make the decision accordingly.” 
Furthermore, Kramer said he does not have any plans to sell the remainder of his portfolio. 
“I have no intentions in the near future to sell any more of my assets, or even the distant future I might add,” he said. “I still remain in business, I still remain in the same location and I will continue to do so for a very, very long time to come.” 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 


STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 



Groupendorsesclassesreform 
By MEGHAN PRICE 
News Writer 
Joseph Incandela, associ­ate dean and professor of Religious Studies at Saint Mary’s, addressed the Student Government Association (SGA) Wednesday about future plans for reforming the College’s General Education requirements. 
He requested the SGA board endorse the plan, which has already been sup­ported by the Faculty Assembly, to raise student awareness about the reform. 
Incandela said the College wanted to change the requirement program for General Education classes that has been in place for over 40 years. Several previ­ous attempts had been made to reform the program, but this proposal, which was developed over three and a half years, is the closest to being achieved. 
“When you think about how much has changed over the last 40 years — cultural­ly, technologically and socially — it is about time this changes.” Jenny Hoffman, student body presi­dent, said. 
Incandela said the new General Education curricu­lum changes will adjust the requirements to benefit stu­dents. The program will include 15 classes to enrich students’ all-around educa­tion at the College. Students will have more freedom to choose which classes suit their interests in the fields they would like pursue. 

“I have felt that my General Education classes were random,” Megan Griffin, student body vice president said. “I was stuck 
in classes that I didn’t even want to take. I think this will provide a connection between the required classes and give them more meaning for the stu ­dents. It can 
only make Saint Mary’s stronger.” 
The pro ­gram would require a crit­ical thinking course for all first -year 
sion with peer counselors and experiential participa­tion, he said, providing a common experience for all incoming students. 
This course and the rest of the courses in the program would connect students through common goals and values including the ideas of diversity and Women’s Voice, he said. 
Incandela said if this idea 
kept moving forward the administration would be look­ing for help from students 

“When you think through venues 
about how mjuch has like focus groups. 
changed over the last 
Students may 40 years — have the option culturally, to write brochures and 
technolgically and 
Web site pages 

socially — it is about for the pro ­time this changes.” gram, and can participate in peer counseling 
Jenny Hoffman 
and other lead-student body president ership opportu­nities. The SGA board voted to students, endorse the reform. 
Incandela said. Each stu­dent’s seminar would be taught by their academic advisor in order to create a relationship for better coun­seling. The course would combine lecture with discus-
Incandela said he hopes to see the new General educa­tion program set into place by Fall 2011. 

Contact Meghan Price at mprice02@saintmarys.edu 





Denim drive to benefit wounded U.S. soldiers 
Operation: Quiet Comfort provides quilts to medically-evacuated military personnel 
By MEGHAN MANNING 
News Writer 
Notre Dame’s Staff Advisory Council (SAC) Promotions Committee is introducing a new campaign to contribute to the fabric of charitable events going on around campus: a blue jeans drive. 
The Promotions Committee sent out a statement that SAC is collecting denim on behalf of Operation: Quiet Comfort — an organization that “provides small quilts to comfort our Wounded Warriors who are medically evacuated to a higher level of care, as well as for those troops who are sick or injured and recovering,” according to their Web site. 
Operation: Quiet Comfort’s Web site states the mission of the group is to “exist solely for the purpose of honoring and comforting America’s military men and women … You won’t find any political, ideological or religious views of the war or other conflicts that the United States may be involved in ... just the love and comfort of a grate­ful nation.” 
Marie Revak, a member of SAC, is helping to organize this event. 
“The truly unique part of this project is that it is two-fold,” Revak said. 
Efforts begin with a campus collection for 100 percent cot­ton blue jeans. These jeans are then cut into six-inch squares, on which individuals later have the opportunity to write person­al messages to recipients. 
Operation: Quiet Conflict’s mission is unique not only for its creative use of transforming items of clothing into practical resources for the troops, but also for how personal these items are when given to sol­diers. 
Revak said “many of the quilts are given to injured soldiers traveling on long plane rides.” 
SAC’s blue jeans drive will begin today and continue through Feb. 26. During this period, donations may be placed in drop-off boxes in vari­ous locations around campus, including the LaFortune Student Center, South Dining Hall, the Mendoza College of Business and the Hesburgh Library. 
The dates and times for the later signing of the denim squares will be forthcoming. 

Contact Meghan Manning at mmannin3@nd.edu 







World & Nation 
Thursday, February 18, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Chad seeking to release U.N. troops 
UNITED NATIONS — Chad pressed on Wednesday for more than 2,700 U.N. peace­keeping troops to be withdrawn and replaced with the country’s own military along the border with Sudan — a position at odds with senior U.N. officials and diplomats. 
The aim of the struggling U.N. mission is to help about a half-million refugees and to promote law and order efforts in Chad and the Central African Republic, two impover­ished nations grappling with the spillover from violence in Sudan’s Darfur province. 
“We are open to any credible proposal which will allow this withdrawal to take place in proper conditions,” said Chad’s U.N. ambassador, Ahmad Allam-mi, who was the nation’s foreign minister from 2005 to 2008. 

Israelis convinced Mossad behind hit 
JERUSALEM — Israeli security officials said Wednesday they were convinced the Mossad was behind the assassination of a Hamas commander in Dubai and harshly criticized the spy agency for allegedly stealing the identities of its own citizens to carry out the hit. 
Names released by Dubai matched seven people living in Israel, raising questions about why the agency would endanger its own people by using their passport data as cover for a secret death squad. 
At the same time, some Israeli experts said the Dubai evidence pointed to a setup to falsely blame Israel. 


NATIONAL NEWS 

New GI Bill helpline to open full time 
CHARLESTON, W.Va. — Iraq and Afghanistan veterans with questions about the new Post-9/11 GI Bill will again be able to get help by phone five days a week start­ing Thursday. 
Veterans Affairs Secretary Eric Shinseki says that GI Bill helpline employees have been tapped since December to help process a backlog in education claims. With claims being processed more efficiently now, Shinseki says those workers are being moved back to the helpline. 
The toll-free helpline at 1-888-GI-BILL-1 or 1-888-442-4551 will be staffed Monday through Friday. 
The new GI Bill was designed to be the most comprehensive benefit for veterans since World War II. 

Man exonerated after 16 years 
RALEIGH, N.C. — A North Carolina man who insisted he was innocent of murder through more than 16 years in prison was declared a free man Wednesday after a groundbreaking exoneration pressed by the nation’s only statewide innocence panel. 
Greg Taylor’s shackles were removed and he was swept into the arms of his relatives, including a daughter and the son-in-law he met for the first time. Taylor said he was looking forward to a good meal and thrilled that he was no longer considered guilty of murdering a prostitute in 1991. 
“To think all these years what this day would be like; 6,149 days and finally the truth has prevailed,” said Taylor, 47, after three judges agreed he didn’t kill Jacquetta Thomas. 


LOCAL NEWS 

Ind. House approves tax hike delay 
INDIANAPOLIS — An Indiana House committee endorsed legislation Wednesday that would delay for one year increases in taxes that employers pay into the state's bankrupt unemployment insurance fund. 
But the Democrat-controlled House's Labor and Employment Committee made changes to the bill that was previously passed by the Republican-controlled Senate. They would expand the number of people eligible for benefits and allow the state to collect nearly $148 million in fed­eral stimulus dollars for the insurance fund. 



3 die in California plane crash 
Twin engine carrying Tesla employees strikes powerline before hitting residential area 
Associated Press 

EAST PALO ALTO, Calif. — A twin-engine plane carrying three employees of electric car maker Tesla Motors struck a set of power lines after takeoff Wednesday and crashed into a fog-shrouded residential neighborhood, raining fiery debris over homes, sending residents running for safety and killing everyone aboard. 
But the crash somehow caused no injuries or deaths on the ground despite a wing slamming into a home where a day care center operated. The seven people inside the house, including an infant, all escaped moments before the home went up in flames. 
Menlo Park Fire Chief Harold Schapelhouman said the Cessna 310 either struck a 100-foot electrical tower or clipped its power transmis­sion lines and broke apart, dropping debris throughout the working-class Silicon Valley neighborhood. It was not immediately clear if the dense fog played a role in the crash. 
The city of Palo Alto said most of the city and sur­rounding area — about 28,000 customers — had no electricity for most of the day because of the crash. 
A spokeswoman for Palo Alto-based Facebook Inc. The Cessna crashed boom that she initially either side,” he added. “That said its offices were without around 7:55 a.m. shortly thought was an earthquake saved people in this commu­power but the outage was after takeoff from the Palo until she “saw a big ball of nity.” not affecting the Web site. Alto Airport and was bound fire hit the side of the house.” Kate McClellan, 57, said Hewlett-Packard Co.’s corpo-for Hawthorne Municipal Houston said she screamed she was walking her dog rate headquarters also were Airport in Southern to the others in the house — when she saw a plane dark, and employees were California, according to the the owner, the owner’s hus-descend from the foggy sky asked to find other places to Federal Aviation band and their three children and strike the tower, causing work Wednesday, a spokes-Administration. The crash — and the group safely power lines to swing wildly in woman said. site is one mile northwest of escaped before the home the air. 
The crash rattled Tesla the airport, near Tesla’s went up in flames. “It burst into flames, and Motors, one of only a few headquarters in San Carlos. “There are not even words then it kept flying for bit companies producing and A wing fell onto the house to describe what it felt like,” before it hit some houses and selling purely electric cars. where a children’s day care she said. “I am very thankful exploded,” McClellan said. The identities of the employ-operated, and the rest of the to God that he allowed us to The crash comes at a diffi­ees were not released. The plane struck the front retain-get out.” cult time for Tesla, which plane was owned by Doug ing wall of another house The occupants of the employs 515 people world-Bourn of Santa Clara, identi-down the street before land-homes have been accounted wide and just three weeks fied by a Tesla spokesman as ing on two vehicles on the for, although authorities can’t ago disclosed plans to hold a senior electrical engineer at street, Schapelhouman said. be completely sure of the an initial public offering of the company. Debris also struck two neigh-fatality count until crews stock. In its filing with the 
“Tesla is a small, tightly boring houses, he said. begin clearing the wreckage, Securities and Exchange knit company, and this is a Pamela Houston, an Schapelhouman said. Commission, the company tragic day for us,” Tesla CEO employee of the day care, “Either by luck or the skill said its future business is Elon Musk said in a state-said she was feeding an of the pilot, the plane hit the dependent on the successful ment. infant when she heard a loud street and not the homes on rollout of new vehicles. 


HAITI 



Judge frees eight American missionaries 
without bail or other conditions after not immediately known. Reporters 
Associated Press 

parents testified they voluntarily hand-were denied access to the Port-au-
PORT-AU-PRINCE — Eight American ed their children over to the missionar-Prince airport tarmac where the missionaries were freed from a Haitian ies. released detainees were taken. jail Wednesday, nearly three weeks “The parents of the kids made state-The missionaries, most from two after being charged with child kidnap-ments proving that they can be Baptist churches in Idaho, are accused ping for trying to take a group of chil-released,” he said, adding that still of trying to take 33 Haitian children to dren out of the quake-stricken country. wants to question the group’s leader the Dominican Republic on Jan. 29 
The eight — looking bedraggled and and her nanny. without proper documents. Their sweat-soaked — walked out of the Kimberly Flowers at the U.S. detentions came just as aid officials Haitian jail escorted by US diplomats Embassy would not confirm that the were urging a halt to short-cut adop­just after dusk. They waited until they Americans were leaving on a U.S. gov-tions in the wake of the earthquake. were safely inside a white van before ernment chartered plane, citing privacy The missionaries say they were on a flashing smiles and giving a thumbs up law. She said that as U.S. citizens, they humanitarian mission to rescue child to reporters. were entitled to evacuation flights. quake victims by taking them to a hasti-
Hours earlier, judge Bernard Saint-Vil The group will be flying out of Haiti ly prepared orphanage in the told The Associated Press that eight of Wednesday night, said defense attorney Dominican Republic and have denied the 10 missionaries were free to leave Aviol Fleurant. Their destination was accusations of trafficking. 
One option is Washington Hall but its smaller size again would be 


Revue 
continued from page 1 
College mission. 
“The Cabinet finds the sexual nature of the skits as well as the inappropriate references to women to be incongruent with Saint Mary’s College mission and values,” she said. “Saint Mary’s College strives to treat all individuals with dignity and respect.” 
Treat said, however, that Revue organizers were left in the dark as to why this change is occurring after so many years of similar con­tent themes. 
“‘Why now?’ we were asking,” Treat said. “Why now after 34 years?” 
The Keenan Revue started out in the late 1970s in Washington Hall but after two years moved to O’Laughlin Auditorium, which, with a seating capacity of 1,300, could accommodate a larger audi­ence. 
The larger seating capacity was not the only benefit of O’Laughlin, Treat said. The new venue allowed for the incorporation of audiences besides just Notre Dame students. 
“The Keenan Revue was one dorm event that tied three campus­es together,” Treat said. “It’s a shame we won’t be able to do that as easily anymore.” 
Treat said he estimated around 1,000 Saint Mary’s students attend­ed this year’s show, while around 50 Holy Cross students were in attendance. 
Revue organizers are currently searching for other nearby venues at which to hold the 2011 Keenan Revue, including some on campus. 
“We have the full support of Student Affairs,” Treat said. 
a limiting factor. Also, he said, Washington Hall’s Main Stage is booked through the entire year and gives preference to groups who have already performed there. 
Another on-campus venue, Treat said, is the Joyce Center, but it also comes with drawbacks. 
“The down side is that it’s not traditional theater setting; there’s no curtain,” Treat said. “But we would work with what we’ve got.” 
Another option would be the Morris Performing Arts Center, a large theater off campus, but the problem with that would be trans­portation. 
“But if people want to go they will get there,” Treat said. 
Reception of news of the move has generally not been positive among students. 
“I have not spoken to anyone who is not a little upset about it,” he said. 
Nolan was also not pleased with the decision. 
“I was very disappointed that they were not going to renew [the contract],” he said. “Saint Mary’s has a very wonderful facility. It’s going to be hard to find another place that accommodates us so well.” 
Treat did say, however, that there is mutual understanding between Saint Mary’s and Keenan Revue organizers. 
“We all understand that it is com­pletely within the right of the administration to not renew the contract,” he said. “We are going to make the most of the transition and look at this purely as a change of venue.” 

Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 



The Observer 




Business
Thursday, February 18, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 



IN BRIEF 

Ticketmaster settles Springsteen fiasco 
LOS ANGELES — Live Nation Entertain­ment’s Ticketmaster unit has agreed to refund money to some consumers who felt they were ripped off when they bought Bruce Springsteen concert tickets from brokers last year. 
That’s according to a person familiar with the matter who spoke on condition of anonymity because an announcement is due Thursday. 
The deal with the Federal Trade Commission affects about 800 people who paid marked-up prices to ticket brokers. The payout could total a couple hundred thousand dollars. 
Consumers complained that tickets appeared to sell out quickly and they were then redirected to higher-priced tickets on a site owned by Ticketmaster called TicketsNow. 

Tomato pickers gain higher wage plan 
MIAMI — Florida tomato growers have finally agreed to help pickers earn more by passing on extra wages offered by major food chains such as Burger King, Subway and Taco Bell. 
For years the Florida Tomato Growers Exchange resisted calls by farmworker advo­cates to pass along an additional penny per pound for tomatoes picked. The Exchange even threatened to fine any members who took part. But this week it OK’d the idea and unveiled a new code of conduct for its members to ensure safe working conditions for the pickers. Exchange President Reggie Brown said discus­sions were under way with the chains to imple­ment that plan. 
“The code of conduct is modeled after codes used by our customers and across industries,” he said. 
The chains had reached agreements with the advocacy group the Coalition of Immokalee Workers to boost wages and allow the coalition to help resolve labor disputes. But most of those deals were never put into practice because growers refused to participate. The Coalition says the move is a step forward. 
But attorneys for the tomato pickers’ coalition said companies that had already signed agree­ments with the workers’ group might face prob­lems joining the new plan. The previous agree­ments included oversight by the coalition, and the new growers’ plan does not. 



Toyotainvestigatessteeringproblems 
Company, government looking into driving difficulties of popular Corolla model 
Associated Press  
WASHINGTON — First it  
was gas pedals, then  
brakes. Now Toyota and  
the government are look­ 
ing into complaints that  
the popular Corolla is diffi­ 
cult to steer straight, rais­ 
ing a new safety concern  
ahead of next week’s con­ 
gressional hearing about  
the automakers recalls.  
But how worried should  
drivers be? Or is this an  
example of how any prob­ 
lem at the Japanese com­ 
pany now gets intense  
scrutiny?  
The executive in charge  
of quality control said the  
company is reviewing  
fewer than 100 complaints  
about power steering in  
the Corolla. Toyota sold  
nearly 1.3 million Corollas  
worldwide last year,  
including nearly 300,000  
in the United States,  
where it trailed only  
Camry as Toyota’s most  
popular model.  
The executive, Shinichi  
Sasaki, said drivers may  
feel as though they are  
losing control over the  
steering, but it was  
unclear why. He men- 
tioned problems with the AP  
braking system or tires as In this Feb. 1 photo, salesman Andre Kamali walks next to a Corolla at a Toyota dealership in Palo  
possible underlying caus­Alto,Calif. Toyota is considering a recall after complaints about power steering problems.  
es. U.S. officials are also  
investigating.  reports about the Corolla.  Corolla presented another  Even so, in the United  
He stressed that the  The preliminary investi­ roadblock in the automak- States, the National  
company was prepared to  gation is expected to begin  er’s efforts to repair its  Highway Traffic Safety  
fix any defects it finds and  Thursday and involve an  image of building safe,  Administration has  
that executives were con- estimated 500,000 vehi­ reliable vehicles. Dealers  received a growing num­ 
sidering a recall as an  cles. The official spoke on  across the U.S. are fixing  ber of complaints from  
option, although no deci­ condition of anonymity  accelerators that can stick,  drivers about power steer­ 
sion had been made.  because the department  floor mats that can trap  ing on 2009 and 2010  
In Japan, President Akio  had not yet notified Toyota  gas pedals and question- Corollas. The numbers are  
Toyoda said he did not  of the probe.  able brakes on new Prius  small compared to  
intend to appear at con- In an attempt to reas­ hybrids.  Toyota’s overall sales —  
gressional hearings next  sure car owners, Toyota  Auto industry experts  only about 150 reports for  
week in Washington, pre- Motor Corp. said it would  said any power steering  those two models. By com­ 
ferring to leave that to his  install a backup safety sys- troubles on the Corolla  parison, there are more  
U.S.-based executives  tem in all future models  were less worrisome than  than 1,000 complaints  
while he focuses on  worldwide that will over- accelerator pedals or  about problems with 2010  
improving quality controls.  ride the accelerator if the  brakes because drivers  Prius brakes, a vehicle  
Toyoda, grandson of the  gas and brake pedals are  could still steer the vehi- Toyota has already  
company’s founder, said  pressed at the same time.  cle, even though doing so  recalled.  
he would consider attend- Acceleration problems are  may be more difficult.  But the decision to  
ing if invited.  behind the bulk of the 8.5  The government investi­ investigate the Corolla  
Also Wednesday, a  million vehicles recalled  gation comes even though  offered further evidence  
Transportation Depart- by the automaker since  the automaker said it has  that the automaker is  
ment official said the  November.  received relatively few  exposed to heightened  
agency planned to open an  The emergence of poten­ complaints about the pop- scrutiny of its cars and  
investigation into the  tial steering problems with  ular compact.  trucks.  



Interestratesincreaseaftereconomicreports 
Associated Press economists polled by Thomson interest rates lower. The prospect 
Reuters had forecast. that the Fed would sell Treasurys 
NEW YORK — Interest rates rose The Federal Reserve also reported weighed on prices as investors grew in the bond market Wednesday after that the nation’s factories, mines and concerned about a flood of supply. upbeat economic and earnings utilities pumped out more goods and The drop in Treasury prices was a reports curbed traders’ appetite for materials last month. The gain of 0.9 reversal after steady gains in recent safer investments. percent in production was ahead of weeks. Concern about budget prob-
Yields on Treasurys advanced as forecasts. The increase marked the lems in European countries including investors sold government securities seventh straight month of growth. Greece, Portugal, Spain and Ireland and put more money into the stock The upbeat news weakened have sent concern through markets market. demand for Treasurys. Demand fell around the world. That had driven 
Signs of an improving economy further in afternoon trading when up demand for Treasurys, which are came from companies as well as the the Fed released minutes from its considered among the safest invest-government. last meeting. The report signaled ments. 
Earnings and forecasts from Deere that policymakers are growing more The yield on the 10-year Treasury & Co. and Whole Foods Market Inc. confident about a rebound in the note maturing in February 2020 rose topped analysts’ predictions. And the economy. to 3.74 percent in late trading from Commerce Department said con-Officials also debated at the meet-3.66 percent Tuesday. Its price fell struction of homes and apartments ing late last month when the central 20/32 to 99 1/32. The yield on the 10­rose to an annual rate of 591,000 bank should start selling some of the year is the basis for rates on mort­last month. That was more than Treasurys it purchased to help drive gages and other consumer loans. 

Professor discusses ideal immigration reform 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
Rodolfo O. de la Garza, Eaton professor of Administrative Law and Political Science at Columbia University, offered a new approach to immigration reform Wednesday at a presen­tation titled “A Proposal for Immigration Reform.” 
The lecture, held at McKenna Hall, was meant to “reflect the interconnection of [de la Garza’s] work as a compara­tivist ... as an American ... and on policy,” de la Garza said. 
The lecture was presented in part as a response to The Comprehensive Immigration Reform for America’s Security and Prosperity Act of 2009, recent legislation introduced by Rep. Luis Gutierrez (D-Ill.). De la Garza outlined various points that he believes Gutierrez’s bill did not adequately address. 
The important areas to con­sider are “how [immigration] affects the U.S., how it affects immigrants and how it affects sending states,” de la Garza said. 
The issues affecting Americans, de la Garza said, are national security, social services, infrastructure, eco­nomic, population growth and cultural changes. 
“Politically, they are relevant to the American people,” he said. 
Discrimination, social insecu­rity, income and familial hard­ships are issues relevant to the immigrants themselves, he said. 
“They’re allowed to buy whatever they want,” de la Garza said of the hypocrisy of encouraging immigrants to spend in America, “but they’re fearful for their lives.” 
The sending states, de la Garza said, are too often ignored when lawmakers con­sider the ramifications of immi­gration policy. 
For sending states, immigra­tion serves as a political and economic safety valve, when dissatisfied citizens leave in the face of political injustice or eco­nomic hardship. Remittances, de la Garza said, are especially controversial. 
“Cuba got rid of the opposi­tion — they’re in Miami,” de la Garza said. “Remittances are often characterized as if they develop a country. There’s no evidence that this is the case ... most of the money goes to poverty reduction at the famil­ial level.” 
De la Garza’s plan for dealing with these issues is based on three concepts: restricting access to workers over the age of 18, managing the cultural impact of immigration and doc­umenting the undocumented by selling temporary legalization tickets. 
“Currently to come illegally it costs $3,000 to $5,000,” de la Garza said. 
These tickets, he said, would “undercut the illegal market” for immigration assistance, by costing between $1,000 and $5,000, and would reflect changes in the market demand and fluctuation in the illegal market’s pricing. 
Once documented, de la Garza said the immigrants should have access to workers’ rights, the ability to visit their families — children are not allowed to accompany them to the United States — and would be eligible for social services available to resident aliens, precluding access to free edu­cation and non-emergency state-funded medical care. 
“They can organize, they can strike, they can move any­where, [like] legitimate American workers,” de la Garza said of his ideal immi­gration policy. 
He said these policies would benefit the economy by saving money, border patrol, border wall construction, healthcare and education. They would also increase job competition and designate revenue from the ticket sales to the states with the highest immigrant popula­tion, rather than a single income for the federal govern­ment. 
“The only group suffering marginally from undocumented labor are Puerto Rican males,” de la Garza said of the contro­versial belief that immigrants take jobs from Americans. “We would reduce health care costs by reducing the needy popula­tion.” 
De la Garza said these reforms would reduce familial hardship by allowing free travel for temporary immigrants to visit home and return to the 
U.S. for a period of five years, after which time they can apply for legal-alien status or return to their countries of origin per­manently. 
De la Garza’s final point dis­cussed the necessary changes within the regimes of the sender nations. 
“[The regimes] must become more open and accountable to its citizens,” he said. “If they don’t the citizens will continue to leave.” 
De la Garza proposed the U.S. us its political clout to influence these nations’ policies, thereby reducing the immigrants desire to leave. 
“They really don’t want to be here unless things are really bad at home,” he said. 
Ultimately, de la Garza said he believes the changes allow­ing for such policy reforms are not exclusively political, and the discussion needs to be expanded upon. 
“The cultural opposition has to be diminished,” he said. 

Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 


solid foundation for the club. The club plans to focus on $6,000 to $8,000 to fulfill. The mails to the Saint Mary’s com­“We just want to grow a good one large fundraising event group hopes to eventually earn munity with the date of their 


Stars 

solid base of members,” Dolik and then hold several smaller continued from page 1 said. “My main goal is just to ones throughout the academic 
help the club survive in the year, Morrin said. finalized any activities as they next few years and get it up on According to Dolik, each are attempting to establish a its feet.” wish costs anywhere from enough money to be assigned a Wish kid of their own. 

“If we raise enough money we’ll get our own Wish kid,” Morrin said. “Make-A-Wish will find us one. But until we get closer to our goal we’re just trying to raise awareness.” 
According to Bolitho, the club will be sending out e-


Web site 
continued from page 1 
with their nd.edu e-mail accounts to making listings and refer their friends to the site. 
Schmidt said the Web site is also equipped with different objective sections where apart­ments in the same complex can be listed under the same tab. 
“For example Irish Row can create a listing and after every­one can just leave feedback about the complex,” he said. “Ideally we want people to rate and create on the individual apartment and complex as a whole.” 
Schmidt said two exceptions to this are Legacy Village and Irish Crossings, where there are different types of units 


Senate 
continued from page 1 
amnesty policy that allows stu­dents to report emergencies without incurring a disciplinary record.” 
Student body president Grant Schmidt said the resolution is an important step forward in ensuring the safety of all Notre Dame students. Currently, he said, students are at times afraid to seek help. 
“They are deterred because they are worried what’s going to happen to them,” Schmidt said. 
Several senators expressed their concerns about the possi­ble ramifications of passing the resolution. 
“The most important thing is to have people seek medical attention, but there should still be consequences,” Pasquerilla West senator Megan Carey said. 
In further debate, senators discussed whether the amnesty should extend to the individual who requires medical attention. Pasquerilla East senator Taylor Ruby Gagan said she believes that at least, for now, additional amnesty should not be granted. 
“At this stage it’s important to next meeting. 
“We’d love to have more ideas,” Dolik said. “We’re real­ly open to anything and we’re really excited about this year and what it will bring.” 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
available. 
Unlike other Web sites stu­dents can use to view potential rental properties online, the new site is University spon­sored. Rich said this helps because the whole student body views the same informa­tion. 
“The interface is easy to use and not too hard for people to figure out,” he said. “You can upload images easily and direct your friends to the Web site too,” Rich said. 
Schmidt said since the Web site doesn’t have all the com­ment features the way ndto­day.com has, but still allows for students to give feedback about landlord quality and other ten­ant considerations. 

Contact Liz O’Donnell at eodonne1@nd.edu 
take smaller steps that are attainable,” Gagan said. 
Breen Philips senator Maria Lynch agreed with Gagan, adding that possible amnesty could be seen as an incentive for rule breaking and send the wrong message to students. 
With these issues taken into consideration, the Senate ulti­mately decided against the additional amendments. 
In a final vote, Senate voted to pass the measure with 21 sena­tors in favor, two against and two abstaining. 
Schmidt briefly presented on the new rent.nd.edu Web site, which will provide student eval­uations of off-campus housing, early in the meeting. 
Students living off campus will be asked in an e-mail to log on to the site and evaluate their current housing. 
The Web site, which is similar in concept to ndtoday.com, is inspired by a similar service offered at Northwestern University. The site will allow current students to access an objective rating system of all off-campus housing opportuni­ties. 


Contact Scott Englert at senglert@nd.edu 


The Observer 




Viewpoint 
page 10 Thursday, February 18, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
Steampunk 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 


ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 

Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Jared Jedick Alicia Smith Molly Sammon Sam Stryker John Helms Graphics Scene 
Jaclyn Espinoza Alex Kilpatrick 

Viewpoint 
Ethan Bailey 

It is a bad idea to read philosophy for 12 hours straight. 
Trust me. Even before the words begin to blur together on the page, the concepts do so in one’s mind: phantom inferences flit back and forth across 
Dan Sportiello 
one’s vision, yield­ing syllogisms 
Bound
baroque and fan-
Variables 

tastical where before there were none. Before long, one is overwhelmed by strange hybrids 
— twisted things insisting that they cannot be and yet should have been. 
I do not know whether steampunk originated in such a reverie — but I would not be surprised if it did, given that it came to obsess me on this dark­est of nights without warning or rea­son. Steampunk is an obscure genre of science fiction birthed in the confronta­tion of information technology, punk rock and nostalgia that characterized the 1980s — a confrontation that yield­ed a postmodern dystopia in which cars and computers are made of brass and powered by steam, in which the struggle for empire sees the great pow­ers field entire fleets of armored zep­pelins, in which the likes of Darwin, Babbage and Maxwell sit in the House of Lords. 
There is something immediately com­pelling about this surreal echo of Victorian Britain, with its paradoxical spirit of simultaneous rebellion and tradition — of change and permanence, of disintegration and order — some­thing that goes beyond the image of my girlfriend looking rather fetching in corset and bustle: there is a part of me that longs for this impossible world, and I imagine that I am not alone. 
It takes a long time for a culture to understand its science. Experiments and equations, of course, may well per­meate college curricula immediately upon their invention. But there is a tremendous difference between under­graduates computing wave functions and the man on the street internalizing the fact that his whole world, and he himself, is nothing more than a shifting region of likelihood. 
Yet there are always certain visionar­ies: Richard Feynman saw, and saw clearly, that the division of said man on the street into man and street was a falsification — that any quantum of either was entangled with every other quantum, that a certain ontological fuzziness was distributed throughout the system and bled into the world beyond. That reality was, at its most fundamental level, disjoint — and liable, just barely, to come apart with­out warning. 
Albert Einstein, for his part, saw that there is no fact of the matter about the speed or mass of that man on the street as he walks, or even about the distance he travels and the time he takes to cross it. These things are, in other words, relative to the observer: two men walking at different speeds expe­rience time and space and one another in radically different ways. And neither experience is to be privileged over the other: such quantities are merely the shifting veils behind which invariant reality lies hidden — different lenses through which the two men look upon a single fabric of four dimensions, warped and rippled in vast and intri­cate array. 
Feynman and Einstein gave us quan­tum field theory and general relativity 
— sets of equations that allow us to quantify precisely the way the world comes apart on the smallest of scales and the way it holds together on the largest. And yet these are not new ideas: 25 centuries ago, Heraclitus held that permanence is illusion and that the world, thus, is nothing more than change and diversity — indeterminacy flowing like a river. Parmenides, for his part, held that change and diversity are illusions and that the world, thus, is one and eternal — a single seamless fabric onto which our disjoint experi­ences are but broken views. 

These philosophies were not obvious­ly compatible then. And they are not obviously compatible now. The world, it seems, cannot be both truly diverse and truly one, truly changing yet truly eternal. Scientists speak of a unified field theory — of a single set of equa­tions that would show us how these two worlds are really one world — would so show us, if we could only dis­cover it. For now, our undergraduates continue to compute wave functions and spacetime intervals, seeing their world through a glass darkly. 
It is small wonder that we have not yet internalized this world — small wonder that we long for that of Victoria: hers is one that still makes sense to us. A century after the fact, we finally understand that world of steam and brass: surely, we insist, one might build a clockwork computer, a clock­work television, a clockwork battleship 
— 
all powered by sturdy coal, not silly uranium. We accept mechanism at last, accept Darwin, Babbage and Maxwell 

— 
now, when it is too late. 

Every generation, no doubt, does the same: in a century, men will long for the contest of Feynman with Einstein 

— 
for a world of quanta and spacetime, a world that still makes sense to them. In the meantime, we can only struggle to understand that world, to leave behind the science of Victoria for our own — corsets and bustles notwith­standing. 


Daniel John Sportiello is in his second year of the Ph.D. program in philosophy. Listen to his radio show on WVFI every Sunday at 4 p.m. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 


OBSERVER POLL 
What is your favorite Winter Olympic event? 
Figure skating Hockey Snowboarding Alpine skiing Curling 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Last night I dreamed I ate a10-pound marshmallow, and when I woke up the pillow was gone.” 
Tommy CooperBritish comedian 
The Observer 





Viewpoint 
Thursday, February 18, 2009 page 11 
Are you hungry? Really? 
It’s mid-morning on Ash Wednesday as I write this, and I’ll be honest, I’m getting a little hungry. Not seriously hungry — after all, it ordinarily wouldn’t even occur to me to eat at this time of the morning (but of course, because I can’t today, I’m 
Kate Barrett 
thinking about it) 

— but that kind of niggling “sorta-Faith Point hungry” feeling that reminds you to look forward to lunch. 
Today’s lunch, however, isn’t much to look forward to, nor is today’s dinner. And so we have begun the season of Lent. Now as far as fasting goes, our experience of Lent is a cakewalk (oh, sorry) compared to the way our Catholic ancestors celebrated it. For centuries and until as recently as 1966, just after the conclusion of the Second Vatican Council, Catholics fasted on all the days of Lent the way we only do now on Ash Wednesday and Good Friday: Only one main meal, and two other small­er ones “sufficient to maintain strength.” 
Somehow, even though the Church has relaxed the “rules” around fasting during Lent, fasting remains the sacrifice of choice from our three traditional Lenten disciplines: Prayer, fasting and almsgiving. Most people who take the season of Lent seriously seem to give up something that they’d hunger for, whether a food, a bad habit or a luxurious indulgence. I’d like to propose that unless our fasting relies heavily on the other two disciplines of prayer and almsgiving, we may have sim­ply given ourselves an extra New Year’s resolution or a reason to be overly proud of ourselves. 
Prayer and almsgiving help us focus on keeping our motivations a bit cleaner dur­ing Lent. If we’re hungry, are we trying to allow God to come in and fill that empty spot, or are we just hoping that said “empty spot” will shrink, along with our stomach, in time for Spring Break? Can we take our hunger to the Lord and ask God to guide us to the clarity of vision we need to determine what our deepest prior­ities should be? Additionally, if we con­sciously give the money we don’t spend through fasting to others whose need is far greater than ours, then our hunger helps us stand in some small measure of solidarity with those for whom fasting is never a choice but simply a daily reality. 
Otherwise, let’s be honest, we’re just try­ing to lose weight or quit smoking or watch less TV and we’ve disguised our self-improvement program as a Lenten sacrifice. 
“Mommmm! I’m staaaaaahrrrrrving!” 
My kids have learned to be careful before uttering that common complaint of childhood — they will likely receive from me a lecture on what it really means to be starving, on how they don’t know starving, on how they’ve never even been truly hun­gry, on how they can talk to me about hungry when they haven’t eaten for days … and on and on until their eyes glaze over and I step off my soapbox. In my defense, however, it’s true, both for kids and adults. What we call a fast is, whether we like it or not, a feast for most of the planet. Even if we just ate bread and water and considered it an astonishing act of sacrifice on our part, you know what? At least the bread would be fresh. At least the water would be clean and free from waste and other disease-carrying organ­isms. 
So beware the Pharisee at the front of the temple. Remember him? His “prayer” meant to ensure that God knew each one of his many virtues: “God, I thank you that I am not like other people … I fast twice a week; I give a tenth of all my income.” Whatever we choose to fast from this Lent, we might want to approach it with the attitude of the tax collector who prayed in the temple as well, “God, be merciful to me, a sinner” (Luke 18:11-13)! And if you’re hungry, and if I’m hungry, good. We’re definitely not starving, and we’re probably not even really, truly hungry. God eagerly awaits our invitation to come in to the newly empty spaces that we’ve at last opened up to his company. If we allow our desire for God to satisfy our hunger, and if we reach out to those who fast only because they have no other options, Lent offers us the chance to fill our hearts and our lives with the loving presence of our Savior, who will fulfill our deepest wishes and meet us where our true hunger lies. 

This week’s Faithpoint column was written by Kate Barrett, director of the Emmaus Program in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Words of wisdom 
Thank you, Ms. Quiros (“Is Father John Listening,” Feb. 17) for pointing out that building and food services are not a gold mine. You are right on track that it is not a self-sufficient job, but allow me to explain a few things about life that you may have missed. 
1.) It is hard. Without proper education or opportunity, you are going to have a tougher time than others. Fact. 
2.) Most people aren’t alone. There is often a spouse or family helping in the background when times get tough. 
3.) Working hard is the only way to get ahead. Yes, $9 seems not that great, but if you work hard and long, you can make a decent living. There are opportunities for advancement at any level of employment, and bosses know a valuable worker when they see one. I guarantee you that the ones that have been here for more than a decade make a bit more than $9. 
4.) You are not limited to one job. Shift-based jobs like the ones you describe are designed so you can take on more than one job per day. Yes, you work harder, see No. 3, but “you gotta do what you gotta do.” If you hate your job, quit. This is a free society. 
5.) No one wants to make near-minimum wage their whole life, nor will they be forced to. Jobs like these are just stepping stones to better opportunities. Night school and community college are viable ways to further your personal skills set. Getting ahead is about taking on per­sonal sacrifice. It is not about getting a handout from this university. If we had a right to live at a certain level, when are we going to start donating all our paychecks to the third world? 
6.) Some people actually like what they do and feel they are doing it at a fair wage. More is always better, but being content is something to be treasured. It is very pre­tentious to think you know what is best for others. 
To University workers: Thank you for doing your job day in and day out. It is much appreciated even though it is rarely voiced. 
Mark Easley 
sophomore Keenan Hall Feb. 17 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



A thank you to fellow staff 
I am writing today to tell you about the Facilities Operations staff and how they embrace and perpetuate the mission and vision of Notre Dame. Valerie Richard, Phyllis Campbell and Mike Vignati are the epitome of professionalism and compassion. While they strive to ensure that their responsibilities are met, they are also very quick to keep a finger on the pulse of the department and ensure the health, safety, and well-being of their staff. They realize that the people they work with are not only employees, but people with fam­ilies and duties outside the workplace. They are very accommodating when appointments and family issues arise as well. They accommodate personal appointments without making you feel guilty. While they emphasize professionalism in the workplace, they realize that from time-to-time personal conflict will happen. They are willing to give each individual the benefit of the doubt and always see their best and their prospective tal­ents. When I experienced personal conflict with a former supervisor, they could have just as easily viewed me as a problem employee, but they instead saw my potential and offered me another position with another supervisor. In this new posi­tion, I have succeeded and thrived. 
I believe that these three individuals are a great asset to the organization. They continually go above and beyond the call of a manager and are willing to be friends to their employees and won­derful human beings. They create an atmosphere of family throughout the organization, even while carrying on day-to-day activities. It is rare to find a leader who is not only respected, but valued and liked as well. I would like to thank them each for the chance they took on me. I would not be where I am today without their influence. 
Maem Detaksone 
Building Services Feb. 18 


The Observer 

Scene
page 12 Thursday, February 18, 2010 
By COURTNEY COX 
Scene Writer 
The fashion world mourned on Friday as the death of Lee Alexander McQueen cast a pall on the commencement of New York Fashion Week. At age 40, the designer commit­ted suicide after having been troubled by the loss of his mother. McQueen ’s legacy lives on in the brilliant and groundbreaking work that he had given the fashion world. He began working in London’s famed Savile Row as an intern and then transi­tioned into costume design. He then pursued his master’s degree in design and began his individual col­lection. 
McQueen was a design­er well known for his dramatic shows and garments. It’s no wonder then that the he is a favorite 
of Lady Gaga. For majority of the public, the only thing even recog ­nizable as a work of McQueen’s are his designs featured in Lady Gaga’s “Bad Romance” video. The video 


some number 
of Rus ­sian brides and mafia members. She is seated in the center 


Spring 2010 collection. Some may also recall the moment when Gaga is slowly walking across a stark white room in an elaborately sequined gar­ment and shoes that are impossibly high. This entire ensem­ble is straight off the Spring 2010 runway as well. Shoes seem to be the one area in which designers completely throw away any sense 
of wearability, and yet McQu ­een ’s designs were an integral 
part of the music video itself. 
McQueen ven­tured into the commercial realm in 2005 with his line for Puma. The collections for 
version of McQueen than what is usually seen on the runway. Let ’s face it: a gym shoe with a nine-inch heel simply would-n’t sell. The collection fea­tures athletic shoes for men and some for women as well. The women’s shoes are not particularly appealing and would generally not be distin­guished from the men’s at first glance, but the real draw to the collection is the select items of clothing. Most of the clothing is meant for working out, but the men’s bomber jacket offers a fan­tastic alternative to the worn 
out hoodie most men find appealing. 
Puma and Lady Gaga may be fans of McQueen, but his real mark on fashion was made in his groundbreaking collections. His most recent collection, Spring 2010, took the global trend to an entire-
intricately designed fabric patterns. The fabrics looked as though they were the skin of some creature that has not been discovered yet. The pat­terns had elements of snake-skin and yet some had shoul­der pads that more closely resembled armor. Each model was transformed into some­thing not quite human by the hair and makeup choices. Their hair was piled atop their heads in alien -like spikes with braids along the side of the head and their makeup emphasized the cheekbones and diminished the eyebrows yet again creat­ing the illusion of an alien creature. The shoes were incredibly powerful. They added a good foot to the already Amazonian models and simply added to the oth­erworldly effects of the show. The show was a look forward to the future in an unbeliev-
The lingering question fol-
come of his Fall 2010 collection . The men’s collection was shown in Milan in 
not. It was reportedly close to being fin­ished upon his death, but whether it will debut in New York remains to be seen. 
His work simply cannot be summed up in one article. His creations were groundbreak­ing and extremely powerful. He was a versatile designer with acclaimed collections in both men ’s and women’s wear and his design aesthetic was both outrageous and beautiful. He emphasized the juxtaposition of power and beauty in his clothing, and left a huge mark on the fash­ion industry. He will surely be missed and will be remem­bered for years because of his amazing work. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 
By JORDAN GAMBLE 
Associate Scene Editor 
Back in the good old days of the mid -1990s, the Disney Channel didn’t have much original programming. Before the specially made ‘tween concoctions “Hannah Montana ” and “Lizzie McGuire,” it showed Australian sci-fi shows, tapings 
of Billy Joel certs Disneyland movies. Lots movies: “Bedknobs and Broomsticks,” but some fare, too. 
One such “Splash,” which is basical­ly “The Little Mermaid” set in New York City, but without the talking tuna fish and evil sea queen. This 1984 romantic comedy first film Disney’s “grown Touchstone Pictures, because it’s PG rating was too intense for the Disney name. 
ing “Madison ” first name for girls and jumpstarting Tom Hanks’ movie career. It was also directed by future Oscar winner Ron Howard and features Eugene Levy (of “American Pie” fame) a mermaid ­marine scientist. Candy, at the time the film’s only recognizable star, got top billing for play­ing Hanks’ lascivious older brother. 


Daryl Hannah plays the mermaid who gets some legs so she can find the man of her dreams (she chooses the name Madison from the street sign). Hanks is the grade, and I would stalk the also has to leave behind her human guy, Alan, who falls in Disney Channel row in TV dad and all her sisters. love with her. All sorts of Guide to see when it would Eric was a hottie, sure, but fish-out-of-water high jinks be on again. what a message to send to lit-ensue, until Levy’s mad scien-Why? tle girls: you might find the tist sprays water on Madison When I was little, I was guy of your dreams, but in the middle of the street. obsessed with Disney’s “The you’ll have to change your Then her legs turn into a big Little Mermaid.” As I got whole life (and in Ariel ’s 

goldfish tail and Alan is older, though, I was put off by case, species) for him! Now understandably freaked out. the lame ending where Ariel that is a terrible relationship It’s okay, though — love pre-decides to become human for model, or at least an unfair vails and he rescues her from her man, giving up swimming one. the big, bad government sci-around with all her spunky So I liked “Splash” a lot entists. fish friends and getting to better. It was more “grown-
I first saw “Splash” some-wear a purple shell bra. Not up ” and realistic when it time in the middle of first to mention the fact that she came to relationships. 
Granted, the sex jokes either went right over my head or were edited out for TV, but 7­
y e a r-o l d  m e  l o v e d  t h a t  
M a d i s o n  w a s  s m a r t  a n d  
l e a r n e d  E n g l i s h  j u s t  b y  

watching the display TVs in Bloomingdale’s. 
I also liked that Alan comes back to save her and then (spoil­alert) gives up he to stay with forever in the sparkly city under the all very 
told my boyfriend 
a compli-Hanks was very cute 
on the next 
the DVD. Now that 
a lot of 
is clever, 
best original 
tastic, from Levy and Candy ’s comic tim­ing to the sweet, sexy chem­istry between and Hanks. Hannah’s wardrobe is dated and kind of ugly, but 
part of the movie’s charm. Most of all, it’s simply a 
very good romantic comedy, helped along by a creative, high-concept story that wards off the formulaic mess most rom coms end up in today. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 
JACLYN ESPINOZA | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Thursday, February 18, 2010 page 13 
Aspen Santa Fe Ballet @ DPAC, 7 p.m. 
The Aspen Santa Fe Ballet is an acclaimed dance group with stu­dios in both Aspen, Colo. and Santa Fe, N.M. Formed in 1996, its goal is to attract top composers and dancers to create a pleasing com­bination of entertainment and modern dance. Traveling across the country, the Aspen Santa Fe Ballet offers a program full energy and excitement and is very accessi­ble to all audiences. They are said to make use of their dancers in inventive ways, widening the range of ballet and modern dance. The Aspen Santa Fe Ballet will perform Thursday and Friday evenings at 7 
p.m. as well as Saturday at 2 p.m. and 7:30 p.m. 
Wiz Khalifa @ Legends, 10 p.m. 
An American rapper based in Pittsburgh, Penn., Wiz Khalifa broke onto the music scene in 2006 when he was declared an “artist to watch” by Rolling Stone. In 2007 he signed with Warner Brothers Records and released his techno -influenced single “Say Hey,” which topped out at 25 on the Rhythmic Top 40. In 2009 he split from Warner Brothers and released his second album, “Deal or No Deal.” Working as an inde­pendent artist, Khalifa has focused his attention on Internet market­ing. “Deal or No Deal” reached No. 2 on iTunes’s hip-hop chart. As always, the show is free at Legends to all Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross students. 
Bill O’Connell’s Chicago Skyliners @ Legends, 10 p.m. 
Playing music from the Big Band Era, Bill O’Connell ’s Chicago Skyliners will perform at Legends this Saturday evening. The band formed in 1988 intent on continuing the long tradition of big band and jazz music in a new age. With a repertoire of old classics as well as pieces by con­temporary artists, the Chicago Skyliners blend the old and with the new in high energy perform­ances. Be prepared for impres­sive improvisation and a feeling of nostalgia for the golden age of jazz. And if two hours of dance-able jazz music isn’t enough, plan to stay after the concert for the Swing Nightclub. 

‘21 Grams’ @ DPAC, 3 p.m. 
“21 Grams ” tells the com ­pelling story of three strangers who are brought together in the aftermath of a terrible accident. Paul Rivers (Sean Penn), a col­lege professor, is waiting for a heart transplant while dealing with his loveless marriage to wife Mary (Charlotte Gainsbourg). Christina Peck (Naomi Watts) is a loving wife and mother to two little girls. Ex-con Jack Jordan (Benicio Del Toro) has found religion and is working to straighten out his life. All three characters and their families are forced to come to terms with the truths of their own lives as a result of tragic car crash. 
Contact Genna McCabe at gmccabe@nd.edu 
JACLYN ESPINOZA | Observer Graphic 


By STEPHANIE DePREZ 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Britain is on the rise, and Florence Welch is riding the wave over. With a sound organically grown from Etta James and Imogen Heap, Florence + The Machine’s debut album “Lungs” hits like a ton of bricks somewhere in the impossible fusion of soul and indie pop. 
Welch, a 23-year-old from London, has been blowing up U.K. charts for the past year (fueled by the BBC) and has finally crossed the pond. Her band’s first release is not similar enough to any one artist to be placed in a genre. Instead, “Lungs” manages to bring out the soul-power of fellow Brit Adele to the layered orchestration of Frou Frou (with less electro-pops and more harp). Plus, the lyrics are not too cryptic to require a microscope and thesaurus to decipher, whilst remaining odd 


enough to deserve multi­ple plays. 
The album opens with “Dog Days Are Over,” a bait -and-switch that begins like an Ingrid Michelson song and ends up in a Gospel anthem, com­plete with clap track. 
Then comes “Rabbit Heart (Raise It Up),” the album stand out. The moving soul melody is lit­tered with punches of choir back­ing, as it dances precariously between an intimate revelation and a blow out proclamation. By the time the chorus hits, it’s become hypnotic and begs to see the fairy tale finished. “Midas is king and he holds me so tight/And turns me to gold in the sunlight,” belts Welch, and one wonders who Midas is until, of course, the bridge comes around, the orches­tra drops out and suddenly you couldn’t care less about Midas because the choir is chanting “Raise it up!” with such devotion that you want to chuck your shoes and go dance in the snow. By the time the last chorus — coated with harp glissandos — cycles through, you’re hooked, and there’s no going back. 
“Kiss With a Fist” is the most unique on the album. This pure punk-rock tribute to PJ Harvey contains tongue-in-cheek lyrics set to bare drums and electric guitar. “You smashed a plate over my head/Then I set fire to our bed,” drawls Welch, with the fierceness of Lily Allen. This not-breakup song (“A kiss with a fist is better than none”) is so delightfully awful that it even landed on the sound­track of the Megan Fox film, “Jennifer’s Body.” Beware, though, because it contains all the elements of a song you won’t be able to get out of your head. 
Florence + The Machine pro­vides a wealth of samples for one new to their indie Gospel anthem. “Drumming Song” is a heart-rac­ing track that once again manages to reconcile funk and edgy rock that is “Louder than sirens/Louder than bells/Sweeter than heaven/And hotter than hell.” The lyrical simplicity that Welch uses provides enough punch to get the point across but is so straightfor­ward that one feels comfortable belting them right along with her. 
The album takes a breather for the oddity “My Boy Builds Coffins.” Here the lyrics really do take front and center, as Welch calmly explains the profession of her beau. “He’s made one for himself, one for me too/And one of these days he’s gonna make one for you.” The placid tone still man­ages to end in a choir anthem. 
“Hurricane Drunk” sounds the most like what one would expect to hear on the streets of London. This post break up soul number has a chorus worthy of Kelly Clarkson, but unlike Clarkson doesn’t induce fervent jumping — just swaying hips. 
“Lungs” ends with a cover of “You’ve Got the Love” that Florence + The Machine takes to appropriate heights. The track, originally done by Gospel singer Candi Stanton, becomes a theatri­cal ovation (and might induce some jumping). 
Overall, “theatrical” is a very good term for “Lungs.” Welch bar­rels through everything she takes on, layering synth and orchestra at will, with an artistic reckless­ness that threatens to blow over any bystanders not keen enough to brace themselves. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 
JACLYN ESPINOZA | Observer Graphic 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
No. 18 Bulldogs win record 16th game in a row 
No. 4 Purdue slides past No. 9 Ohio State in conference rivalry; Singler scores 22 for No. 6 Duke in win over Miami 
1995-96. won.” 
Associated Press 

Want more? On the floor, it was a complete 
INDIANAPOLIS — Butler is con-Well, the Bulldogs have already mismatch. tent letting everybody else talk about clinched their fourth straight regu-The Flames opened the game in a the impressive numbers. Players lar-season conference crown and 2-3 zone, confounding the Bulldogs. and coaches will just keep focusing home-court advantage in the Butler started 6 of 21 from the field on winning games. Horizon League tourney. and trailed 15-14 with 8:54 left in 
Right now, the two styles are Wednesday’s win even moved the first half. working perfectly. coach Brad Stevens into a tie for No. Butler’s shooters didn’t languish 
Matt Howard scored 17 points 3 among coaches with the most league. and Ronald Nored added a career-wins in their first three seasons. Nored took advantage of the big high 16 points Wednesday night, Stevens, North Carolina’s Bill openings by repeatedly driving to leading the No. 18 Bulldogs to a 73-Guthridge and North Carolina the basket. He and Willie Veasley, 55 victory over Illinois-Chicago and State’s Everett Case have all won 80 who finished with 11 points, com­a school-record 16th consecutive games. Another win would tie bined for all of Butler’s points in a 9­win. Stevens with Nevada’s Mark Fox 0 run that turned the game and 
“It means we’ve been focused and Gonzaga’s Mark Few for No. 1. gave the Bulldogs a 23-15 lead. during the whole streak,” sopho-But the Bulldogs aren’t paying After that, Illinois-Chicago never more forward Gordon Hayward attention to those things. really challenged. said after his third straight double-“It’s our job to come in every day double. “You know, it’s nice to have and get better, whether we’re play-Purdue 60,Ohio State 57 the numbers, but we don’t focus on ing UIC or Siena,” Nored said. The first time Purdue and Ohio the past. We’re always looking for-And nobody is playing better than State played this season, JaJuan ward.” Butler, which limited the Flames (6-Johnson scored just four points 
Next up: Siena on Saturday. 20, 2-14) to 31.4 percent shooting and his Boilermakers blew a big 
But the Bulldogs are finally play-from the field — a season-best for lead while losing at home. ing like the team people expected the Bulldogs. The 6-foot-10 junior wasn’t when the season started. Illinois-Chicago was led by Robo going to let that happen again. 
Butler (24-4, 17-0 Horizon Kreps with 15 points and Jeremy Johnson scored 24 points and League) has now matched Murray Buttell with 10. Nobody else consistently hit big shots to build State for the nation’s longest win-reached double figures and the the lead and keep No. 9 Ohio State ning streak and broken the school Flames lost for the 12th time in 13 at bay in No. 4 Purdue’s victory record of 15 straight victories initial-games, falling to 0-14 on the road Wednesday night. ly set in 1999-2000. It’s the first this season. “I felt like the last game we team in Horizon League history to Even the possibility of looking past played it wasn’t one of my best win 17 conference games in a sea-a team that has only one win since games,” Johnson said. “I thought I son. A win at Valparaiso next week New Year’s Day and an awful start had to get more involved.” would not only give the Bulldogs 12 couldn’t derail the Bulldogs. Boy, did he. He hit 11 of 17 shots road wins this season, but also the “Obviously, it wasn’t the most from the field, made both of his first perfect league mark since beautiful thing in the world,” foul shots and also had seven Wisconsin-Green Bay went 16-0 in Stevens said. “But I’m happy we rebounds and three assists. 
Whenever the Boilermakers need-first-half points. This time, the lead and Durand Scott scored 19 ed a shot, a rebound or a blocked was almost the same — only points. shot, Johnson was their guy. Hummel didn’t score a point. Scheyer was 1 for 12 before 
The Boilermakers (22-3, 10-3) Johnson carried the load, instead. sinking 3-pointers on consecu­tightened the race for first place in tive possessions for a 64-59 the Big Ten with 11th-ranked Duke 81, Miami 74 lead with five minutes left. Michigan State (21-6, 11-3). Kyle Singler scored 22 points Smith’s 3-pointer capped an 8-0 
“It’s a huge win for us,” Johnson and No. 6-ranked Duke used run that put the Blue Devils up said. “This puts us closer to our smothering defense to rally 69-59, and the margin was at goal of winning the Big Ten cham-from a 12-point halftime deficit least five the rest of the way. pionship.” and beat the Miami Hurricanes Duke went 9 for 10 from the 
The Buckeyes (20-7, 10-4), who on Wednesday night. free-throw line in the final 90 were knocked a game behind Jon Scheyer missed his first seconds to seal the win. The Michigan State in the conference, nine shots and Nolan Smith Blue Devils scored 56 points in raved about Johnson’s play. missed his first six for the Blue the second half — remarkable 
“He made shots,” said Ohio Devils, who shot 31 percent in considering that in the first 12 State’s Jon Diebler, who missed a the opening half to fall behind minutes, they shot 4 for 19 with tying 3-pointer in the final seconds. 37-25. But 22 turnovers seven turnovers and fell behind “Those are some tough shots. doomed the Hurricanes, who 23-12. That’s a heck of a basketball player attempted only 45 shots to 60 Smith was shut out for the right there.” for the Blue Devils. first 18½ minutes. Scheyer 
E’Twaun Moore had 15 points Duke outscored Miami 29-9 to struggled even longer, finally and Keaton Grant added 13 off the start the second half and shot 9 scoring 24 minutes into the bench for Purdue, which had lost for 15 from 3-point range after game to pull Duke even at 39. in all nine of its previous trips to halftime. Duke missed nine of its first Value City Arena. The The Blue Devils (22-4, 10-2 11 shots, and Miami scored 11 Boilermakers won their eighth Atlantic Coast Conference) consecutive points — eight by straight game overall. increased their league lead Collins — for a 15-6 lead. Scott 
Evan Turner had 29 points, with their fifth win in a row. sank a runner at the buzzer to William Buford 11 and Diebler 10 Miami (17-9, 3-9) lost for only end the half to put the for Ohio State, which had won its the second time in 13 home Hurricanes up 37-25, their last nine Big Ten games. games. largest lead of the game. 
Johnson had 15 points as Purdue Despite their poor starts, Singler made four baskets in scored the first seven points and Smith finished with 21 points the first 2.5 minutes of the sec-never trailed in building a 36-23 for Duke, and Scheyer scored ond half to trim it to five, and halftime lead. That was similar to 15 despite shooting 3 for 15. his 3-pointer gave the Blue the first meeting, when they led Dwayne Collins had 21 points Devils their first lead since the 41-29 behind Robbie Hummel’s 29 and nine rebounds for Miami, early minutes at 42-41. 


CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
gradrentals.viewwork.com  If you or someone you care about  Ladies and gentleman, I have some  Guess what? I have flaws.  
FOR RENT  ——————————————— Faculty/grad students. 2 bdrm, 2.5  PERSONAL  has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit  bad news. Meredith was hit by a car.  What are they?  
bath, LR, DR, FR, Florida room,  Notre Dame's website:  
utility room.  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  http.csap.nd.edu  Where?  Oh I donno, I sing in the shower?  
Off-Campus housing  not go it alone. Notre Dame has  ———————————————  
2010-11 and 2011/12.  2-car attached garage. Security  many resources in place to assist  Timbo Slice Kissling  It happened this morning in the  Sometimes I spend too much time  
Irish Crossings,  system. Available now. 262-332­ you.  Alec Hollis  parking lot. I took her to the hospi­ volunteering.  
Dublin Village,  0015. Shown by appt. 1616 E.  If you or someone you love needs  Adrian”Yo Adrian” Moreno  tal. And the doctors tried to save  
Wexford Place.  Colfax.  confidential support or assistance,  Mike “Face for the Radio” Magill  her, life, they did the best they  Occasionally I'll hit somebody with  
Also a few houses and Villas.  ———————————————  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819  Matthew “The 717” Anthony,  could. And she is going to be ok.  my car.  
Some furnished.  B&amp;B for ND parents by ND  or Ann Firth at 1-2685.  
parents. Junior Parents Weekend.  For more information, visit ND's  You guys did an amazing job at  What is wrong with you? Why  So sue me-- no, don't sue me. That  
Call 574-298-4206.  2-night min. 10 mins. to ND. 574­ web site:  Bengal Bouts  would you have to phrase is like  is opposite the point I'm trying to  
CES Property Management  272-5640  http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu  and I’m proud of you!  that?  make.  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Thursday, February 18, 2010 
page 15 

NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball AP Poll 
team previous 
1  Kansas  1  
2  Kentucky  3  
3  Villanova  4  
4  Purdue  6  
5  Syracuse  2  
6  Duke  8  
7  Kansas State  9  
8  West Virginia  5  
9  Ohio State  13  
10  Georgetown  7  
11  Michigan State  10  
12  New Mexico  15  
13  Gonzaga  16  
14  Wisconsin  11  
15  Texas  14  
16  BYU  17  
17  Vanderbilt  22  
18  Butler  18  
19  Pittsburgh  25  
20  Tennessee  12  
21  Temple  21  
22  Baylor  24  
23  Wake Forest  NR  
24  Texas A&M  NR  
25  Richmond  NR  

NCAA Division I Womens Basketball AP Poll 
team previous 
1 Connecticut 1 2 Stanford 2 3 Nebraska 3 4 NOTRE DAME 4 5 Tennessee 5 6 Xaiver 6 7 Ohio State 7 8 Duke 8 9 West Virginia 9 10 Florida State 10 11 Oklahoma 12 12 Texas 14 13 Iowa State 20 14 Georgetown 16 15 Texas A&M 13 16 Kentucky 17 17 Oklahoma State 15 18 Baylor 11 19 Georgia Tech 21 20 Georgia 19 21 Gonzaga 22 22 St. John’s 25 23 LSU 23 24 TCU 24 25 Vanderbilt NR 
NFL 


Panthers sign former Colts lineman Johnson 
Associated Press 

CHARLOTTE, N.C. — The Carolina Panthers signed Ed Johnson to a 
one -year deal on Wednesday, adding a needed, run -stopping defensive tackle while taking a chance on a player with a checkered past. 
The 6-foot-2, 296-pound Johnson will be reunited with Carolina defensive coordinator Ron Meeks, who had the same job in Indianapolis in 2007 when Johnson started all 16 games and recorded 63 tackles as an undraft­ed rookie. 
Johnson’s career has declined since. The Colts waived him early in the 2008 season following his arrest on a marijuana possession charge. He was re-signed, then cut again early last season because coach Jim Caldwell said his play had slipped. 
The 26 -year-old Johnson also ran into trouble at Penn State, where he was temporarily kicked out of school and later suspended from a bowl game. 
The Panthers, who have been wary of signing and drafting players with off-field issues in the past several years, decided to take a chance on Johnson. 
“We have done a lot of research on Ed,” Panthers general manag­er Marty Hurney said in a statement. “When we took into account what people around him said and the impression we got when meeting with him in person, we felt comfortable giving him this opportunity.” 

Johnson will provide insurance for Maake Kemoeatu, who is recov­ering from a ruptured Achilles’ tendon that forced him to miss all of last season. Carolina had trouble replacing him before 36-year-old Hollis Thomas filled in capably to close the season. 
Thomas will be an unre­stricted free agent and may not be re -signed, leaving Johnson in a group of tackles that includes Damione Lewis, Tank Tayler and Louis Leonard. 
What the rest of the defensive line will look like in 2010 is also uncer­tain. 
The Panthers have still not announced if they’ll place the franchise tag on five-time Pro Bowl defen­sive end Julius Peppers by the Feb. 25 deadline and offer him a guaran­teed $20.1 million for one season. 
The other starting defensive end from 2009, Tyler Brayton, will be an unrestricted free agent this offseason. 


around the dial 
NBA 

Nuggets at Cavaliers 8 p.m., TNT 
NCAA Men’s Basketball 
Wisconsin at Minnesota 9 p.m., ESPN 
IN BRIEF 

Rodriguez, Astros proceed 
to arbitration hearing 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. — Pitcher Wandy Rodriguez has gone to a salary arbitration hearing against the Houston Astros, asking to be paid $7 million this year instead of the team’s $5 million offer. 
The 31-year-old left-hander was 14-12 last season with a 3.02 ERA, ninth in the NL among qualifiers. He struck out a career high 193, also ninth, and made $2.65 million. His 192 hits allowed were a career high 
Arbitrators Richard Bloch, Elizabeth Neumeier and Fredric Horowitz were expected to issue a decision Thursday, a day after hear­ing the case. 
Four more players are scheduled for hearings this week: Los Angeles Angels shortstop Erick Aybar and catcher Jeff Mathis; Washington left-hander Sean Burnett; and Chicago Cubs shortstop Ryan Theriot. 
McGwire arrives at spring 
training for Cardinals 
JUPITER, Fla. — Mark McGwire’s first day on the job ended with another apology for using steroids. 
The St. Louis Cardinals’ new bat­ting coach got time in the batting cage with hitters on Wednesday, sat in on a lengthy staff meeting and then spoke with reporters at the team’s spring training complex in Florida. He again said he was sorry, echoing remarks he made a few weeks ago when he admitted he used performance-enhancing drugs dur­ing his time as baseball’s home run king in the 1990s. 
He also said more than once that he is hopeful the issue will subside soon. 
The 46-year-old McGwire said steroids gave him the opportunity to recover from injuries, resulting in more at-bats but not necessarily adding to his home run count. 

Cowboys VP: Team not 
looking to spend wildly 
ARLINGTON, Texas — Dallas Cowboys vice president Stephen Jones says the team doesn’t plan to spend wildly on free agents if the NFL has no salary cap in 2010. 
Jones said Wednesday that the Cowboys agreed to expensive, long­term deals with the likes of Tony Romo and linebacker DeMarcus Ware to keep them off the market in a year when teams might have no limit on spending. 
Because of the money tied up in those deals, Jones says the Cowboys aren’t interested in a spending spree. He also says they don’t see a need for major changes after their first play­off win in 13 years. 
The NFL will play without a salary cap next season unless a new labor deal is reached. The current collec­tive bargaining agreement expires in March 2011. 
NFL 

Browns release Jamal Lewis after injuries 
Associated Press 
BEREA, Ohio — Jamal Lewis was released by the Cleveland Browns on Wednesday, but hasn’t given up hope of playing again in the NFL. 
Lewis was let go with one year remaining on his contract. His season ended on Dec. 2 when he was placed on injured reserve with post-concussion symptoms, but he doesn’t want his career to end with an injury. 
First, he must be cleared to return. 
“If Jamal wants to play and he’s cleared to play, I think he’s got a lot of football he can bring to the table to help an organization,” Lewis’ agent, Mitch Frankel said. “He can be a significant contribu­tor to the right organization. Jerome Bettis and some other guys at the end of their careers took on a different role, and I think Jamal can do that.” 
Lewis, 30, said after the Browns’ season finale that he was still suffering from headaches and blurred vision as a result of the concussion, which he sustained in the opener against Minnesota. Frankel said he wasn’t sure if Lewis was still having the prob­lems and Lewis did not address them in a prepared statement, although he did thank Browns fans and owner Randy Lerner. 
“I plan to evaluate my future and have not made a final deter­mination on whether I will be playing football next season,” he said. 
Lewis tried playing through the symptoms for three months before finally getting examined. He carried 143 times last year for 500 yards and has rushed for 10,067 yards in his career. 
Lewis was one of the most out­spoken veterans against first-year coach Eric Mangini. He was criti­cal of Mangini’s practice habits and felt the coach was working the players too hard. Halfway through last season, Lewis said he would retire. 
Now he wants to join a con­tender if his body will let him. 
“Jamal went to the Browns with the hope he’d be successful and go to the playoffs and beyond,” Frankel said. “At this stage in his career, I think he would want to play for a team that has a chance to compete and get back to the Super Bowl like he did in 2000. That’s not to say Cleveland can’t do that, but it would appear there are other teams out there that, as of today, look a lot stronger.” 
Lewis’ release leaves Jerome Harrison as Cleveland’s apparent starter. Harrison rushed for 862 yards last season, but ended with a flurry. He rushed for 561 yards and five touchdowns over the final three games — all wins — as Cleveland closed the season by winning its final four. 




NHL 

Bouchard deals with head injury 

Associated Press 
ST. PAUL, Minn. — Pierre-Marc Bouchard was supposed to be centering Minnesota’s second line this season. 
Instead, he’s been watching helplessly and without expression from a perch in the press box while the Wild play without him. His pads, jersey and helmet have been replaced by a black wool coat and a scarf. 
This is what recovering from a concussion can look like. Bouchard must wait and watch until his headaches go away. No skating. No shooting. No running. No real exercise, except for regu­lar walks around the neighbor­hood. 
“Get some fresh air. Get my legs going a little bit,” Bouchard said. “Besides that, I watch TV or read or just sleep.” 
The 25-year-old has missed all but the first game of this season because of a head injury he first suffered last March. He missed the final eight games of last sea­son, and after believing he was all right took an elbow to the jaw in a September exhibition game that brought the symptoms back. 
He was fighting a flu-like illness at the time, but after a weak effort in the Wild’s season opener and the persistence of headaches he was pulled off the ice once it was became clear it was by more than just the virus. 
“I took two months off and worked out all summer and felt good,” Bouchard said during a recent home game. “The thing is during the summer, you don’t have any contact. I came back here, and in that first exhibition game I got hit.” 
The eighth overall pick in the 2002 draft, Bouchard had a career-high 20 goals in the 2006­07 season and a career-high 50 assists in the 2007-08 season. He’s in the second year of a five-year contract worth $20.4 mil­lion. 
“It’s just frustrating to not be able to play,” he said. “You can­not look back and say, ‘I should’ve done this.’” 
The Wild aren’t counting on getting Bouchard back this sea­son. 
“The important thing for me is that he gets healthy and gets back to being the Pierre-Marc Bouchard of old,” general man­ager Chuck Fletcher said. “If we can get a happy, healthy Pierre-Marc Bouchard back for next season that’s great. To me it’s not a rush.” 
That’s the view these days around the NHL, which like the NFL has become more concus­sion-conscious in recent years amid growing concerns about the long-term risk of the injuries in these hard-contact sports. The competition committee formed by the league and the players’ union last year discussed a rule designed to curtail hits to the head, but a consensus was not reached. 


MLB 

Lidge feels ready to play in spring training 
Associated Press 
CLEARWATER, Fla. — Philadelphia Phillies closer Brad Lidge says he is pain free. 
A year after converting all 48 save chances, Lidge led the major leagues with 11 blown saves last season. He had surgery to repair his right elbow in November and right knee in January. 
Now as spring training is about to start, the 33-year-old is confi­dent he can regain the form that helped the Phillies win the 2008 World Series. 
“I probably won’t look back and dwell,” Lidge said Wednesday. “Now it’s about being myself again, going to my bread and but­ter and getting things done.” 
The loser in a pivotal Game 4 of the World Series against the New York Yankees, Lidge estimates he is two weeks behind his usual pre­season pace. He expects to pitch off a mound next week and doesn’t rule out being available for the April 5 opener against Washington. 
“The good thing is my arm and knee both feel good, and it’s my goal to catch up and try to be ready,” Lidge said. “I think that’s a possibility. It’s reasonable. But we also look at ‘08 as a model. We didn’t rush it, and I had the best season of my career.” 
Lidge had arthroscopic surgery on the same right knee in spring training two years ago and missed the first series of the regular sea­son. But he was activated after four games and helped the Phillies win the World Series for the first time since 1980. 
Lidge completed his first three save chances last year, then blew one April 19. Less than two weeks later, the Phillies briefly sidelined their closer due to right knee inflammation. 
He said Wednesday the knee pain caused him to change his mechanics: He put more pressure on his right arm, leading to the elbow injury. 
“You try to convince yourself that you’re not 100 percent but you’re fine, you’ll be able to go out there and do the same thing and get results as normal. You try everything to do that,” Lidge said. “It’s not about trying to trick peo­ple as much as convincing your­self. If you can’t sell it to yourself, there’s no reason to go out there. I think the biggest thing is I was try­ing to convince myself I could get it done the same way and I felt I could do it, but I wasn’t the same guy last year.” 
Lidge’s fastball control became erratic. He gave hitters a better and longer view of his delivery, and he couldn’t hold runners on base — Johnny Damon stole two bases on one play during that Game 4. 
Spring training will allow Lidge to work on his mechanics, which could be key for the Phillies. 

NBA 

Hansbrough misses rookie All-Star game 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — The annual All-Star game between NBA rook­ies and sophomores last week was missing perhaps the best-known rookie of all — former North Carolina star Tyler Hansbrough. 
After the Indiana Pacers took the former AP college player of the year with their first pick last year, critics questioned whether Hansbrough was big enough or athletic enough to succeed. 
No one questioned his durability, but that has been his biggest stumbling block as a pro. He missed training camp, the presea­son and the first four regular-sea­son games with a right shin injury. He returned and quickly became a fan favorite with his relentless play before his health became an issue again. He hasn’t played since Jan. 16 because of an inner ear infec­tion that causes dizziness and makes him sensitive to light. 
“It’s just giving me headaches and things like that,” he told The Associated Press. “Whenever I get healthy, I’ll play. I’ve been unfortu­nate to have some injuries. I’m just trying to fight through this and get healthy and go from there.” 
Hansbrough has played in 29 games and averaged 8.5 points and 4.8 rebounds. He scored a career-high 21 points on Dec. 11 against New Jersey, and got his first career start on Jan. 13 against Phoenix. 
“I was feeling like I was coming along as a player, fitting into my role on this team,” he said. “This is something new to me. I’ve never been injured like this.” 
He has played just two games since that start against Phoenix. Pacers coach Jim O’Brien said last week that he’s not sure when Hansbrough will return. 
“Right now, he’s on the shelf,” O’Brien said. “He’s not working out at all. If he’s able to come back and start working out, that’s going to be important because of the fact that he’s been told he’s not allowed to really move around even one on none. That’s a real setback from a conditioning stand­point.” 
Hansbrough is considered one of the core pieces of team president Larry Bird’s rebuilding project. Troy Murphy, who occupies the power forward spot Hansbrough eventually is expected to fill, said the rookie has potential. 
“He plays hard,” Murphy said. “He’s a rugged-type guy, he’s a good teammate. He’s knows he has things to learn, and he does a good job of seeing the coach and trying to pick those things up.” 
Hansbrough sometimes has dif­ficulty getting his shot off, has got­ten into foul trouble regularly and at times has struggled to fit into the team’s flow. 
He said the physical ability of the competition is his biggest chal­lenge. 
NBA 

Rose, Deng aid Bulls in win 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Derrick Rose scored 27 points, Luol Deng added 23, and the Chicago Bulls beat the New York Knicks 115­109 on Wednesday night to complete a sweep of a home­and-home series. 
With trade rumors swirling around both teams, the Bulls rallied from a 15-point deficit to move above .500 at 27-26 and hand the Knicks their fifth straight loss. 
Brad Miller had 21 points and 10 rebounds, and Taj Gibson finished with 14 points and a career-high 16 rebounds as Chicago outrebounded New York 52-40. 
Al Harrington scored 27 points, and Wilson Chandler had 26 for the Knicks. David Lee had 23 points and 12 rebounds, while Danilo Gallinari scored 19 points but was just 2 of 10 from 3-point range, including a pair of costly misses with a chance to tie in the final minute. 
Chicago outscored New York 62-45 in the second half to win a game that was much closer than its 118-85 rout at United Center on Tuesday night. 
The Knicks played without Nate Robinson, who they said was home with flulike symp­toms. However, various reports earlier Wednesday said the team was nearing a deal to send the backup guard to Boston, and an official within the league said the trade would be completed Thursday. 

Starting forward Jared Jeffries also played only 6 min­utes before he left with what the Knicks said was a sore right knee. 
New York did complete one deal, sending the unhappy Darko Milicic to Minnesota for Brian Cardinal. The deal would open a roster spot for the Knicks to make another trade Thursday if they waive Cardinal, as expected. 

Chicago was without John Salmons. Coach Vinny Del Negro said he got a call before the game telling him to leave the guard at the team hotel, an indication a trade was in the works. 


WTA 

Zverev moves to next round of Open 

Associated Press 
MARSEILLE, France — Mischa Zverev of Germany beat Spain’s Tommy Robredo 6-2, 3-6, 6-1 Wednesday to reach the quarterfinals of the Open 13. 
French players Jo-Wilfried Tsonga, Julien Benneteau and Michael Llodra joined Zverev in the next round. Llodra edged Marcos Baghdatis of Cyprus 7­6 (6), 6-4, and in two all-French matchups, Tsonga topped Josselin Ouanna 7-6 (9), 6-4, and Benneteau beat Florent Serra 6-4, 6-4. 
Zverev converted both break­point chances in the third set to build a commanding 5-0 lead, while the fourth-seeded Robredo wasted three opportu­nities. 
The German left-hander believed in his chances despite starting the season with five straight losses. 
“I felt like I had a chance, no matter what,” Zverev said. “I just tried to mix it up and not give him too many easy balls.” 
Zverev had lost both of his previous meetings with Robredo. 
“I know his game,” Zverev said. “I can use my strokes against him and it worked out.” 
Defending champion and sec­ond-seeded Tsonga did not give any break chances to Ouanna, firing 19 aces to win a tight tiebreaker and take a 3-1 lead in the second set. 

“It wasn’t great tennis but I got the main thing (the victo­ry),” Tsonga said. “Getting used to the lights and to the speed of the ball was a bit tough.” 
Meanwhile, Llodra hit a serv­ice winner to convert his third match point. The 2009 finalist broke Baghdatis in the previ­ous game with a backhand return winner. 
“It could have gone either way,” Llodra said. “I tried to be more aggressive and I seized my chances.” 
The seventh-seeded Baghdatis had two set points in the tiebreaker but squandered them, allowing Llodra to take the opening set with a smash. 
In another second-round match, the eighth-seeded Benneteau broke Serra at 4-4 in the second set and saved two break points in the next game to hold serve and clinch victory. 
Benneteau relied on a strong serve, landing 76 percent of his first serves and slamming 11 aces. 
Also Wednesday, Belgian qualifier Yannick Mertens beat Jan Hajek of the Czech Republic 7-6 (8), 6-1, to set up a second-round match with Guillaume Rufin, who outlasted fellow Frenchman Laurent Recouderc 7-5, 4-6, 7-6 (2). 
PGA 

Tiger Woods to speak out 
Associated Press 
MARANA, Ariz. — Tiger Woods will end nearly three months of silence Friday when he speaks publicly for the first time since his middle-of-the-night car accident sparked stunning revelations of infidelity. 
However, his agent said Woods will not take any questions from a small group of media. 
“This is not a press confer­ence,” Mark Steinberg said Wednesday. 
It will be Woods’ first public appearance since Nov. 27, when he crashed his SUV into a tree outside his Florida home. Woods’ only comments since then have been made through his Web site. 
“It will be good to see Tiger’s face again, and see that he’s actually out there somewhere,” Stewart Cink said. “I think this is the beginning of the comeback process for him.” 
Woods is to speak at 11 a.m. Friday from the clubhouse at the TPC Sawgrass in Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla., home of the PGA Tour. 
“This is all about the next step,” Steinberg said. “He’s look­ing forward to it.” 
Still, there was strict control over the appearance, typical of Woods’ career. 
Steinberg described the gather­ing as a “small group of friends, colleagues and close associates,” who will listen to Woods apolo­gize as he talks about the past and what he plans to do next. He said three wire services have been invited — The Associated Press, Reuters and Bloomberg — and he asked the Golf Writers Association of America to recom­mend pool reporters. 
Only one camera will be in the room to provide live coverage via satellite. Steinberg said other writers with proper credentials could watch from a hotel ball­room more than a mile away. 
“The first time out, he’s better controlling it,” Padraig Harrington said. “Over time, there will be questions. At the moment, the best thing is a more controlled environment and gradually ease his way back into it.” 
Steinberg said in an e-mail announcing the public appear­ance, “While Tiger feels that what happened is fundamentally a matter between he and his wife, he also recognizes that he has hurt and let down a lot of other people who were close to him. He also let down his fans. He wants to begin the process of making amends and that’s what he’s going to discuss.” 


The timing is peculiar. It will be held during the third round of the Accenture Match Play Championship in Arizona, sure to steal attention away from the first big event of the year. Accenture was the first sponsor to drop Woods when he became embroiled in the sex scandal. 
“He’s got to come out at some point,” Rory McIlroy said. “I sup­pose he might want to get some­thing back against the sponsor that dropped him. No, I don’t know. It just went on for so long. I’m sick of hearing about it. And I’m just looking forward to when he’s getting back on the golf course.” 
PGA Tour commissioner Tim Finchem said he did not think Woods’ appearance was going to undermine a World Golf Championship event. 
“We have tournaments every week,” Finchem said. “I think it’s going to be a story in and of itself. A lot of people are going to be watching golf this week to see what the world of golf says about it, my guess is. So that will be a good thing.” 
As far as the PGA Tour’s part in the Woods event, Finchem said: “We were asked to make the facility available and to help with the logistics. That’s what we’re doing.” 
Steinberg said only that Woods’ appearance during the championship was “a matter of timing.” Asked if it could have waited until Monday, he said, “No.” 
No other news conference this week drew a larger crowd of reporters than the 20 who sur­rounded Finchem, a testament to how Woods has dominated the conservation at the Match Play. 
“We’re all better off when he’s playing,” Adam Scott said. “I’m curious as to when he’ll return to golf.” 
As for the timing? 
“It’s his choice,” Scott said. “I guess the tour is hosting it there.” 
Woods made a spectacular fall from his perch atop golf. He was believed to have been the first athlete to gross $1 billion in earnings and endorsements and, at 14 majors, was closing in on golf’s record of 18 majors held by Jack Nicklaus. 
It all collapsed in the early morning hours the day after Thanksgiving. 
Over the last few months, Woods has been on the cover of gossip magazines and the butt of jokes on national talk shows. 


NBA 

Cavaliers make blockbuster trade for Jamison at deadline 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — The Cleve­land Cavaliers acquired Antawn Jamison on Wednesday night, the forward they hope will fit in between LeBron James and Shaquille O’Neal on a champi­onship front line. 
Jamison goes to Cleveland from the Washington Wizards in a three-team trade that sent Drew Gooden to the Los Angeles Clippers. 
Washington received Cavaliers center Zydrunas Ilgauskas, a 2010 first-round draft pick and the rights to Emir Preldzic, who was select­ed in the second round of last year’s draft from Cleveland. 
The Wizards also received forward Al Thornton from Los Angeles. 
Cleveland gets guard Sebastian Telfair from the Clippers. 
The Cavaliers had long covet­ed an athletic power forward who could play on the perime­ter after they were eliminated by the Orlando Magic in last year’s Eastern Conference finals. 
They had reportedly been involved in trade talks with Phoenix for Amare Stoudemire, but instead ended up with another former All-Star. 
Jamison, who had been with the Wizards since 2004, is aver­aging 20.5 points this season. He was not in uniform for Washington’s game with Minnesota on Wednesday. 
“Antawn Jamison has been the embodiment of leadership on and off the court for this franchise for five-and-a-half seasons and we thank him for all he has done for the Wizards and the city of Washington,” Wizards president Ernie Grunfeld said. “Unfortunately, our on-court results have not met our expectations and we felt it was necessary to make changes to improve our future and our financial flexibility. This trade accomplished both of those objectives.” 
Jamison left the arena shortly before the game. As he entered his car, he said to reporters: “Not now.” 
He did have a message for Wizards fans. “You know I love them more than they love me.” 
Jamison should immediately step in at power forward for Cleveland and supply James with another legitimate scoring option as the Cavaliers’ seek their first championship. Jamison is still owed $28 mil­lion over the next two seasons. 
Cleveland (43-11) already has the best record in the NBA and can set a new franchise mark by winning its 14th straight game Thursday night against Denver. Still, the Cavaliers couldn’t pass on the opportuni­ty to add a proven veteran like Jamison, who can stretch opposing defenses with his perimeter shooting and open up the lane for James and O’Neal. 
James can become a free agent this summer, leaving this as Cleveland’s final shot at a championship before he decides to stay or go. The Cavaliers also had the league’s best record last season, when they failed to reach the NBA finals. 
Maybe Jamison can help them take that next step. 
He was extremely popular not only with fans in Washington, but also with his teammates and the late owner Abe Pollin. After Gilbert Arenas was sus­pended indefinitely early last month, Jamison was the one who was chosen to speak to the crowd before the Jan. 8 game. He apologized for a skit that pantomimed shooting guns, calling it: “very embarrassing.” 
Now Jamison is gone and Wizards coach Flip Saunders lauded him. 
“He’s one of the most profes­sional guys I’ve ever been around,” Saunders said. 
The Wizards acquired Gooden on Saturday in a trade that sent Caron Butler, Brendan Haywood and DeShawn Stevenson to the Dallas Mavericks, to the Los Angeles Clippers. 


Gooden was reportedly seek­ing a buyout. Unlike his three former Mavericks teammates, he did not practice with the Wizards on Tuesday, but was at shootaround Wednesday morn­ing. He was listed as inactive. 
“Basically, we started looking at opportunities to clear cap space for this summer and in the meantime acquire assets that we also liked,” Clippers general manager Mike Dunleavy said. “In the last two days, we were able to do that. And it gives us the flexibility to pretty much go in a lot of differ­ent directions.” 
Jamison was an All-Star in both 2005 and 2008, and aver­aged 20.5 points in 41 games. He missed the first nine games of this season with a sprained right shoulder. 
The 33-year-old played his first five seasons with Golden State and after playing the 2003-04 season with Dallas, was traded to Washington. Jamison has a career average of 19.9 points. 
Ilgauskas, who is 34, has played his entire 12-year NBA career with the Cavaliers. He was supplanted as the starter center by O’Neal this season. He’s averaging 7.5 points and 
5.3 rebounds this season. His career averages are 13.9 points and 7.7 rebounds. 
The 6-foot-7 Thornton has averaged 13.7 in his three-year career with the Clippers. 
Telfair, who’s 24, will be play­ing for his fourth team. The for­mer first-round pick has aver­aged 7.9 points in his career. 


SMC BASKETBALL 

Kammrath has big night in victory 
By TIMOTHY SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
Despite all of the outside distrac­tions for the game Wednesday night, Saint Mary’s won handily against Olivet 79-59 after some record-setting rebounding. 
Senior forward Anna Kammrath set the College record for the most rebounds in school history. Kammrath entered the game 11 rebounds short of the record and finished the game with 12 to break the record. 
“This was big. This was Anna’s night,” Belles provided the necessary spark for the Belles, Henley said. 
“We typically never relied on her scoring in her career,” Henley said. 
Kammrath was not the only Belles’ player to produce big num­bers during the game. Sophomore Jessica Centa matched Kammrath in scoring as she also added 18 points for the Belles. 
This was all-around big win for Saint Mary’s against Olivet. The Belles need to continue to win as only three games separated five teams in the MIAA; if the team falls far 

coach Jennifer “This was big. This enough in the Henley said. “It is was Anna’s night.” standings, it could nice to do it at end up without home.” home-court advan-
Jennifer Henley 
Kammrath had a tage in the first spectacular game Belles coach round of the play-
on a very special night. Since this was senior night for Saint Mary’s, all the seniors on the team had an evening to cele­brate their four-year careers. As Kammrath is the only senior on the team, it essentially became “Anna’s Night.” 
She did not disappoint, shooting 8-14 with 18 points and her record-clinching 12 rebounds. Kammrath recorded her 15th double-double of her career, and her dominant offensive production offs. 
The Belles look to 
end the regular season on a high note as they have one final game remaining before heading into the MIAA playoffs. 
“This [win] gives us a lot of momentum,” Henley said. 
Saint Mary’s looks to continue that momentum as they travel to Albion on Saturday for a 3 p.m. matchup. 
Contact Timothy Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 
NBA 

Parker’s return sparks victory 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — A bit of rest and relaxation in Malibu was all a hobbled Tony Parker needed to start blowing by the competition again. 
Parker returned after missing San Antonio’s final game before the All-Star break because of a strained left hip flexor. Fresh off a four-day vacation with wife Eva Longoria, he scored 28 points to help the Spurs beat the Indiana Pacers 90-87 on Wednesday night. 
“He didn’t get to stay in shape, he hasn’t been able to do any­thing,” Spurs coach Gregg Popovich said. “Considering that, my God. He scored, he moved the basketball, he was really impor­tant to us running the show.” 
Parker said he struggled at times during his 39 minutes of action. 
“I got tired in the second half and my hip was getting tired,” Parker said. “We’ll see what we do for the next game, but overall I was OK. Can’t do every move­ment, I can’t go full speed, but I’m a vet, so I know how to get by.” 
Tim Duncan had just eight points on 4-for-23 shooting, but had 26 rebounds and five assists. He had 10 rebounds in nine min­utes in the fourth quarter. 
“That’s why he’s a Hall of Fame player,” Pacers guard T.J. Ford said. “I don’t know too many guys in this league that can go 4-for-23 and still help his team win.” 

Duncan said it was possibly the worst shooting game of his career, but he made up for it by “going Mo Malone on them.” It was a reference to Moses Malone, the powerful post player who spent his best years with the Houston Rockets and Philadelphia 76ers in the late 1970s and early 1980s. 
He joked that his futility padded his offensive rebounding stats. 
“I got a jump on it because I was missing so many shots,” Duncan said. “I guess I knew where the ball was going.” 
Parker said Duncan’s effort was key. 
“That is what’s great with T.D. 
— even if he has a bad shooting night he’s always going to do other stuff,” Parker said. “He was huge on the boards, he was huge on defense. Even if he was not blocking shots, he was deflecting shots. He’s just a presence.” 
Manu Ginobili added 18 points, seven assists and six rebounds for the Spurs. 
Danny Granger scored 23 points, Roy Hibbert had 14 points, seven rebounds and six blocks, and Troy Murphy added nine points and 16 rebounds for Indiana. 
The Spurs won despite shoot­ing just 35 percent from the field. 
“If you would have told me we would hold them to 35 percent shooting, I would think we had a chance,” Pacers coach Jim O’Brien said. 
Duncan’s 11 offensive rebounds helped the Spurs take 16 more shots than the Pacers. 
“We played hard,” Granger said. “We got our hands on a lot of balls. We just got killed on the offensive boards. That’s kind of been the tale of our season.” 
Popovich switched up his line­up, starting Keith Bogans and Matt Bonner instead of Jefferson and Antonio McDyess to counter Indiana’s small lineup. 
San Antonio led 51-45 at half­time before getting hot in the third quarter. A free-throw line jumper by Duncan closed out a 7­0 run that gave the Spurs a 64-50 lead. 
Indiana rallied at the end of the third quarter. Two free throws by Hibbert capped an 11-3 run at the end of the period that trimmed San Antonio’s lead to 69-67. 
Indiana took its first lead of the second half early in the fourth quarter on Ford’s short jumper in the lane. 
The lead seesawed until the final minutes. Richard Jefferson hit a 3-pointer, then Ginobili con­verted a 3-point play to give San Antonio a 90-84 advantage. 
Granger made a 3-pointer with 30 seconds left to make it 90-87. 
The crowd stood, hoping the Pacers could get a stop. Ginobili drove, but Hibbert blocked his shot. Duncan rebounded and kicked the ball out to George Hill, who heaved a desperation 3­pointer as the shot clock expired. The ball was tipped around until the Spurs gained control and ran out the clock. 


Sisters 
continued from page 24 
there for her just the same,” Christine said. 
Just as she did in high school, closer and find the best in each other. 
“Kathryn is a warrior. She is a hard worker and people can count on her to do her best everyday,” Christine said. 
Of course, her younger sister had nothing but good words to 
Christine has made the adjustment and transition process much smoother for Kathryn. 
“Having her at the same school [means] that I have an instant friend here, and it is a major relief knowing that I have someone that 

“Kathryn is a warrior. She is a hard worker and people can count on her to do her best everyday.” 
Christine Lux Irish frst baseman 
say as well. 
“I see her biggest strength as being a great role model. She is someone I look up to and strive to be like. She has been my rock, and I couldn’t have asked for a bet­ter big sister,” Kathryn said. 
With a bond like theirs, this 
will always be there for me, no matter what,” Kathryn said. 
Both sisters agree that col­lege ball is far more demand­ing and time consuming, but that only allows them to grow 
Big East 
continued from page 24 
Christopher Johnson, fresh­man William Bass and junior Joshua Nosal earned 32 points for the Irish. Pittsburgh, a perennial contender in the Big East, finished first in the event, followed by West Virginia. 
In the 500 freestyle, LeBlanc and junior Michael Sullivan finished fourth and fifth respectively, posting times of 
4:31.14 and 4:31.29 minutes. Swimmers from West Virginia, Louisville and Cincinnati out touched the Irish in that event. 
In the 200 freestyle relay, the Irish team finished fourth, behind Louisville, Pittsburgh and West Virginia. 
In the 100 butterfly, the top Irish seed earned 11th place. Louisville had four swimmers finish in the top 10 in the 
Cardinals 
continued from page 24 
er battle, as neither team led by more than 3 points the entire way. A huge 3-pointer from junior forward Carleton Scott with a little over 2 min­utes to go gave the Irish a late 65-64 lead. 
Freshman forward Mike Broghammer, who hadn’t scored in a Notre Dame game since Bucknell on Dec. 12, then entered the contest for the final, heart-pounding min­utes with Nash and Cooley fouled out. 
“Broghammer gave us good minutes, Jack Cooley gave us a presence inside,” Brey said. “Everybody that played helped us out tonight. It’s something you’re proud of, but it’s just so sad we couldn’t finish that things since we had a couple shots to win it.” 
An offensive rebound and put -back by Broghammer extended the Notre Dame lead to 3, but three Louisville free throws in the final minute evened the score. Broghammer had an open look in the final seconds of regulation, but the attempt would not go down. 
The exhausted Irish started the first overtime with sur­prising strength, taking a 6­point lead on an Abromaitis dunk. The Cardinals then slowly whittled away the Notre Dame lead at the free season is sure to be a special one for both the Lux family and the Irish. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
event. 
Lytle earned a third place finish in the 200 freestyle. Freshman Christopher Johnson and sophomore Brian Maloy finished seventh and eighth, respectively, in the 100 breaststroke. Two Louisville swimmers placed first and sec­ond in that event. 
Petrovic finished fourth in the 100 backstroke. Sophomore Marshall Sherman, junior Christopher Wills and Nosal also finished in the top 15 for the Irish. 
Sullivan and Bass finished fourth and sixth, respectively, in the 400 individual medley. 
The events continue throughout the rest of the week and into the weekend. Irish coach Tim Welsh and his squad have their eyes set on another Big East Championship. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
throw line, eventually tying the game at 79. Senior guard Ben Hansbrough’s lay -up attempt with six seconds left was blocked by Samuels, and the teams went to second overtime. 
The final period again came down the closing seconds, as Louisville went ahead 91-89 on two more Samuels free throws. Brey and the Irish appeared to be going for the win in the final seconds, but could not get a shot off against the Cardinals defense. 
Abromaitis led the Irish with 29 points, followed by Hansbrough with 21 and Jackson with 19. Jackson played every second of the game, and Hansbrough played 48 minutes. 
Notre Dame tallied 28 fouls trying to defend Samuels and Louisville inside, with Nash, Scott, Broghammer and Cooley all fouling out. Samuels made 16 of his 19 attempts from the free-throw line. 
Brey said despite the gutsy performance without Harangody, the Irish weren’t satisfied with the effort. 
“They don’t want any moral victories or consolation prizes,” Brey said. 
The Irish will have a week off to recover from the heart­breaking loss before return­ing home next Wednesday against Pittsburgh. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
Singles 
continued from page 24 
making the highest wins by an first Irish freshman since Sheeva Parbhu went 20-3 in 2005. 
Five of Watt’s victories gave Notre Dame match wins, four of them against ranked teams. Watt also had three wins coming from behind and posted an 8-2 overall record in three-set matches. He was able to defeat reputable players such as then senior Michael Breler of then-ranked No. 20 Texas Tech, then senior Mahmound Hamed of then­No.41 South Florida, and junior Simon Childs of then-No. 23 Lousiville. 
On the doubles side of his freshman year, Watt and No. 2 Irish singles junior Stephen Havens posted a 12 -12 record in dual play at No. 2 doubles for Notre Dame. 

Together, they managed to secure a doubles point a team-high six times for the Irish. 
As a sophomore, Watt has continued to advance as a player and in his record. He has gone 14-5 in singles, 5-4 against nationally ranked teams and 5-8 with junior teammate Tyler Davis. 
The Irish’s No. 2 singles position has seen strong play come from Havens this 2010 season. The 5-foot-11 junior presently holds the No. 93 national ranking after post­ing a 10-15 mark his sopho­more year, and going 8-9 thus far in his junior year. Last fall, he managed to play tough against some of the country’s top competitors, such as then-No. 13 Texas A&M’s junior Austin Krajicek in a three-set match to clinch the Notre Dame victory. 
Also on Havens’ résumé are a first-round Big East championship win over Georgetown’s sophomore Andrew Bruhn and recording three match-clinching points during the fall of his sopho­more year. Havens playing a significant role for the Irish his freshman year, going 20­21 in singles play. He went 9­5 in the open season and 11­16 in dual play. On the dou­bles side, Havens went 12-11 in dual play, recording a 9-4 record with Davis for the year. The duo of Havens and Davis also secured the dou­bles point for the Irish seven times. 
This season, Havens has been pairing with fellow jun­iors Daniel Stahl and Davis, as well as freshman Niall Fitzgerald at the No. 2 dou­bles spot. 
As they head further into their spring season, the Irish have much to look forward to from these two key players as they lead Notre Dame on the court. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
NBA 

Mavs edge out Suns after trade 
Associated Press 
DALLAS — Dirk Nowitzki scored 28 points, and Dallas newcomer Caron Butler started a key third-quarter run in the Mavericks’ 107-97 victory over the Phoenix Suns on Wednesday night. 
Amare Stoudemire, who has been mentioned in trade rumors in recent days, had 30 points and 14 rebounds for the Suns, who had their five-game road winning streak snapped. 
Butler, acquired from Washington along with Brendan Haywood and DeShawn Stevenson in a seven-player deal Saturday, scored 15 points and hit a jumper to open a 16-4 run in the third. Jason Kidd had 18 points, 10 assists, seven rebounds and a career-high seven steals for Dallas. 

Before the game, Stoudemire rated his chances of being trad­ed before Thursday’s deadline as 50-50. 
Cleveland was considered the most likely destination if Stoudemire was dealt. But the Cavaliers moved on to their next choice, acquiring Antawn Jamison from Washington in a three-team trade Wednesday. 
The Suns, who lead the NBA in scoring at more than 110 points per game, were held under 100 for only the seventh time this season. Phoenix missed 13 of its first 14 3-pointers and finished 5 of 22 from beyond the arc. 
Butler and Haywood were playing their first home game and second overall with the Mavericks. Haywood had 10 points, nine rebounds and five blocks starting in place of the injured Erick Dampier, who did not play after undergoing sur­gery Wednesday to close an open dislocation of his right mid­dle finger. 


CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Thursday, February 18, 2010 page 24 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Late night in Louisville 
Team fails to get off a shot as time expires in disappointing 2OT loss on the road 
Tyrone Nash and freshman 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Jack Cooley, who played a
Associate Sports Editor 
career high 19 minutes, each 
fouled out early in the second 

For 50 minutes, the Irish half. fought and left their hearts on Harangody missed his sec-the floor, but Notre Dame ond straight game with a knee came up just short in double-injury but is expected to overtime on the road to return next week against Louisville. Two free throws by Pittsburgh. Cardinals sophomore The game was a close con-Samardo Samuels gave test from the outset, with both Louisville the win, and sides playing intense defense. Samuels had a career-high 36 Neither team earned a lead points in the game. greater than 3 points in the 
“I don’t know that I’ve ever first 10 minutes, and an early been prouder of a group in a Nash jumper tied the game at loss,” Irish coach Mike Brey 18. said. “We had a lot of oppor-Louisville then went on a tunities tonight but just could-10-0 run to grab a 7-point n’t get it, but a lot of guys had lead, but even on the road to help us tonight.” without Harangody, the Irish 
The Irish, already short on weren’t fazed. A junior for-depth with an injured senior ward Tim Abromaitis jump-forward Luke Harangody on shot found net just before the bench, struggled to defend halftime to cut the Cardinals the 6-foot -9, 260 pound lead to 37-36 at the break. Samuels inside, as the for-The second half was anoth­ward picked up foul after foul inside. Forwards junior see CARDINALS/page 22 

EILEEN VEIHMEYER/The Observer Junior forward Tim Abromaitis, right, jukes around St. John’s senior forward Anthony Mason Jr. in the Irish’s 69-68 loss on Sunday. Notre Dame lost to Louisville in double overtime Wednesday. 

SOFTBALL 

For Lux sisters, playing first base is a family affair 
first baseman Kathryn Lux of and Christine recalls recurring my own thing in college.” closer than ever, and from 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 

Glendale Heights, Ill., are play-battles over dirty bathrooms. But for this pair, one year there a future at Notre Dame 
Sports Writer 

ing together again for the first Despite the fighting, they together as teammates was not for one final season together time since high school four always worked well together. enough. became a dream for their fami-
When it comes to sisters years ago, when they teamed Christine always set the stage “When we played our last ly. Kathryn caught the attention growing up together, competi-up to compete in basketball for her younger sister, and high school game together, I of Irish coach Deanna Gumpf, tion is a constant feature, both and softball at Glenbard West while this was always helpful realized that I did not want to and that dream became a reali­spending most of their time H.S. for Kathryn, it made finding be done playing with her. She ty. vying to be the best. But for “She made me feel comfort-her own path difficult. made such an impact on me “I love having Kathryn at Christine and Kathryn Lux, able on a completely new team “For my whole life I have fol-that when our high school sea-Notre Dame with me. I can spending their childhoods with new girls,” Kathryn said. lowed directly in her footsteps,” sons came to an end, I was count on her and I know that together has only made them While they both lived at Kathryn said. “I was never devastated,” Kathryn remem-she will be there for me when-closer. home, Kathryn remembers truly able to make my own bers. ever I need her, and I will be 
Senior first baseman being the typical younger sister, name for myself. This bothered When Christine left for col-Christine Lux and freshman constantly pestering Christine, me, and I swore that I would do lege, their relationship grew see SISTERS/ page 22 
MEN’S SWIMMING 

Tourney’sopenshowspromise 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
The Irish got off to a strong start on the first day of the Big East Championships, as they look to win their fifth confer­ence title in six seasons. 
The team of senior John Lytle, junior Steven Brus, sen­ior Andrew Hoffman and sen­ior Mackenzie LeBlanc led the Irish to a victory in the 800­yard freestyle relay. The win earned the team 40 points. Louisville finished second in the event with a 1.51 second difference behind the Irish. 
Notre Dame earned third place in the 200 medley relay. The team of sophomore Petar Petrovic, freshman 
see BIG EAST/ page 22 


MEN’S TENNIS 

Consistent singles success paces Irish 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 

While the Irish have been working on finding a bal­ance in their doubles, the Notre Dame singles are con­sistently coming out on top. 
Leading the Irish at No. 1 singles is sophomore Casey Watt, a member of the recruiting class that was ranked fifth nationally by a tennisrecruiting.net poll, one of the top comprehen­sive sources for tennis recruiting in the country. 
Watt opened up the 2010 season with a new national ranking of No. 18 from his Fall 2009 ranking of No. 90, helped by his runner-up per­formance at the ITA Midwest Regional Championships last October after defeating some of the top-seeded players from Ohio State, Illinois and Wisconsin. Watt’s powerful play has carried over into the spring as he has held strong at No. 1 singles. 
As a freshman, Watt was one of three named to the All -Big East team and earned Big East Academic All-Star honors. The 6-foot sophomore recorded a 28-5 
overall record in singles play for his rookie year, going 10-0 in open play and 18-5 in dual season singles, 
see SINGLES/page 22 








