the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Soler, Bell to lead student body for 2010-11 

BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 
Election marks first time sophomores take top student gov’t offices 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
Assistant News Editor 

Sophomores Catherine Soler and Andrew Bell became the first all-sophomore ticket to win the election for student body president and vice president when they received 54.6 percent of the vote Monday, Judicial Council president Ian Secviar said. 
Soler and Bell defeated juniors Eras Noel and Julian Corona and freshmen Peter Ledet and Gabe Alvare in the election. 
“As far as I know, [Soler and Bell] are the first sophomores to win,” Secviar said. “Our records show that two sophomores have never won going back to the year 2000.” 
Secviar also said it was unusu­al for the ticket to win without a 
see ELECTION/page 9 




Mendoza hosts Ethics Week 
By MEGAN HEMLER 
News Writer 
In an effort to encourage dis­cussion of ethical matters among students and faculty, the Mendoza College of Business launched its 13th annual Ethics Week Monday, focusing this year on the issue of abortion. 
This year marks the first time that the week’s events are related to a single theme — an idea that was born out of the controversy surrounding the decision to invite President Barack Obama as the Commencement speaker for 2009, event organizer Ken Milani, a professor of account­ing, said. 

“What happened in May was confrontation,” Milani said. “Then eventually reasonable voices started talking and agreed to disagree respectfully. We wanted to keep the conver­sation going.” 
Milani said Ethics Week began as a way to honor Notre Dame management professor John Houck, a strong advocate for business ethics education. Houck died in 1996. 
“A number of people involved in ethics at Notre Dame got together to determine what could be done,” Milani said. “The first Ethics Week was held two years later.” 
The series takes place in February each year, a conscious decision by the organizers. 
“We do ethics here 24/7, but we specifically schedule around 
see ETHICS/page 6 

Conference to examine identity 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
The Edith Stein Project, spon­sored by the Identity Project of Notre Dame, will return to campus for a fifth year, initiat­ing an honest discussion on human identity and relation­ships. 
This year’s conference, scheduled to take place this weekend in McKenna Hall, is titled “No Man is an Island: Creature, Culture and Community.” 
JoAnna Roman, co-chair of 
see EDITH/page 6 



Retired ND American Studies professor dies 
Christmanfoundedpublishingcourseforstudents 
Observer Staff Report 

Retired Notre Dame American Studies professor Elizabeth Christman died Thursday. She was 96. 
Christman served as an editorial research officer for the U.S. Navy dur­ing World War II and worked for a New York liter­ary agency before joining the Notre Dame faculty in 1976. 
When working for the agency Harold Ober Associates, Christman asso­ciated with well-known writ­ers such as William Faulkner, Pearl Buck and 
J.D. Salinger. 

Christman read the Salinger’s novel “Catcher in the Rye” when it was still a manuscript. 
But her vocation was teaching, so she obtained masters and doctoral degrees from New York University in order to teach at DePauw University and then at Notre Dame. 

At the University, she designed and taught a pub­lishing course in which stu­dents would seek out manu­scripts, sign a contract with the author and go through the steps of editing, produc­ing and selling the books. 
She also wrote short sto­ries, novels and poetry. During the 1978 summer Commencement address, she delivered her speech in verse — the only Notre Dame Commencement speaker to do so. 
Several of her novels, such as “A Nice Italian Girl” and “Ruined for Life,” are pub­lished. 
A memorial Mass will be celebrated Saturday at 10 
a.m. at Holy Redeemer Church in Webster Groves, Mo. 
The University is in the process of planning a memo­rial Mass on campus in honor of Christman. 
Contributions in Christman’s honor may be made to Friends of Kids with Cancer at 530 Maryville Centre Drive, Ste. LL5, St. Louis Mo. 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER CLC examines du Lac page 3  Women’s basketball preview page 24  Review of Los Campesinos! new CD page 14  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Tuesday, February 9, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Ladies’ love letter 
Dear Ladyfriend, 

This is probably going to be drip­ping with sap, so if you don’t want to read, I’ll understand. Also, I just remembered there’s a whole Facebook page dedicated to this, 
Adriana Pratt
but whatever, The Observer needs some love. OK, 

Assistant 
here we go. 

Scene Editor 
There is some­thing I have observed during my wisdom-bring­ing 19 (almost 20!) years of life and it is this: Girls do not value them­selves enough. I’m sure guys don’t either, but I’m sorry boys, this one’s for the ladies. 
Females don’t take enough time to sit down and evaluate where they are in life (at Notre Dame, learning and having fun), how they got there (through hard work and dedication), the gifts they have (an overabun­dance of them) and the respect they deserve (a LOT). This lack of self-evaluation can often lead to distrac­tions that hurt rather than help. 
Valentine’s Day is right around the corner and the flood of red roses, candy hearts and delicious choco­lates delivered to the girl next door might remind you that you’re single and might make you feel just a little unloved. Let’s face it; we all want a little something special from some­one special on V-Day. But don’t let the thought that you haven’t found “the one” get you down. There’s no reason to be sad. Because guess what: you’re beautiful. 
And — double bonus — guess what, again! This compliment comes for free. No favors are expected in return and none should be for a statement so obvious. At the risk of sounding Taylor Swiftian, stay beautiful. 
Too often for girls, the college mentality becomes “find a man, impress him, hold his attention, then lasso him in.” To do this, we ladies tend to lose sight of our own value and compromise things we wouldn’t normally be so loose about. That’s not what college is for. It’s a time of discovering who you are, where you want to go in life and how you’re going to get there. And of course making sure you have fun along the way. 
Boys will come and boys will go but you will always be a constant in your life, so make yourself proud. Eat, drink, be merry … but remem­ber not to compromise the gifts you have. A man who’s a man will want the same. 
Moral of the story: Be happy where you are. You’re beautiful, you’ve got plenty of time to find “the one,” and if you make sure to enjoy life every step of the way, it will all work out. Call up your other single friends and have a ladies’ night out to celebrate the successes you’ve had and anticipate the good things to come. Happy Valentine’s Day to my lovely lady-friends. You’re the best. 
Love, 
Adriana 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT IS T E ONE T ING YOU WOULD WANT IN A ZOMBIE INVASION? 









Emily Conron  Annie Flood  Kirsten Milliard  Caitlin Glimco  Hannah Greggs  Mary Clare Murphy  
freshman Breen-Phillips  freshman Welsh Fam  sophomore Breen-Phillips  freshman Walsh  freshman Ryan  senior Lyons  
“The Elder Wand.”  “The invisibility cloak!”  “James T. Kirk with a phaser.”  “The Resurrection Stone.”  “A slow friend with a tasty brain.”  “A library with really good locks and a lifetime supply of chocolate.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

GRACE KENESY/The Observer A Saint Mary’s College Communicative Disorders Club booth sells cupid grams that include a card and a bag of homemade cookies in celebration of Valentine’s Day. 
OFFBEAT 

Rotten radishes propmt gas leak calls in Ohio 
DEFIANCE — An Ohio fire department says the smell of decaying radishes prompted calls from resi­dents worried about a pos­sible gas leak. Tiffin Township Volunteer Fire Department near Defiance in northwest Ohio respond­ed to five reports of suspi­cious smells in the last 45 days. A field of oilseed radishes, planted as a cover crop that adds nutri­ents to the field, is near a natural gas compression station and a gas exchange station. 
Tiffin Township Fire Chief Jamie Wonders said each run to investigate the odor takes about an hour. The agency responds to calls even when it suspects 
the  smell  is  from  the  
radishes.  
Mark  Reynolds,  a  

pipeline technician with the TransCanada natural gas compression station, said the gas stored at the facility is odorless. 
New world record set for swallowing swords 
SYDNEY — An Australian performance artist set a new Guinness World Record on Monday by simultaneously swallowing 18 swords, each nearly as long as two and a half rulers. 
Chayne Hultgren, also known by his stage name The Space Cowboy, beat the record he had set in 2008 by swallowing the swords, each 72 cm (28.35 inches) long, at an outdoor event in central Sydney. 
The 31-year-old said he started practicing with swords when he was 16 and has used different methods to perfect the art, including stretching his throat with hoses. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight wednesday thursday 

IN BRIEF 

An exhibit titled “Expanding the Boundaries: Selected Drawings from the Yvonne and Gabriel P. Weisberg Collection” will open at 10 a.m. in the O’Shaughnessy Galleries West in the Snite Museum of Art. 
“Markings by Koo Kyung Sook” will be on exhibit at 10 
a.m. today in the Milly and Fritz Kaeser Mestrovic Studio Gallery in the Snite Museum of Art. 
“New Courts for New Democracies: Judicial Changes in Latin America from 1975 to 2009” will begin at 12:30 p.m. today. The lec­ture will be held in Room C103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
The Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering will host “Organ Culture and Tissue Engineering Models of Heart Valve Disease” today in Room 138 of DeBartolo Hall. The seminar will begin at 3:30 p.m. 
A painting display by visiting artist Dawn Okoro will be on exhibit in the Dooley Room in LaFortune Student Center at 4 p.m. 
Mass of Thanksgiving to for­mally welcome Bishop Kevin Rhoades to the diocese will be celebrated in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 5:15 p.m. 
Majors Night will be offered in Joyce Center Heritage Hall through Gates 1 & 2 at 6:30 
p.m. tonight. 

To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
friday saturday 

Atlanta 44 / 24 Boston 37 / 25 Chicago 28 / 24 Denver 34 / 22 Houston 49 / 34 Los Angeles 58 / 42 Minneapolis 21 / 3 New York 37 / 29 Philadelphia 36 / 29 Phoenix 66/ 48 Seattle 55 / 39 St. Louis 25 / 21 Tampa 65 / 50 Washington 35 / 30 
Tuesday, February 9, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 





CLC responds to possible du Lac revisions 
Disciplinary sanctions, alcohol abuse policies reviewed; Council members contribute feedback to ORLH 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Council met with Bill Kirk, associate vice pres­ident for Residence Life, Monday to comment on possible revisions of the du Lac student handbook, emphasizing in particular the progression of disciplinary sanc­tions and the University’s policies for alcohol consumption on cam­pus. 
CLC members cited concern for the outline of disciplinary action set forth by the Office of Residence Life after Kirk present­ed potential reviews of du Lac during last week’s meeting. 
“One of our general perceptions about the way that du Lac is cur­rently structured is that there ought to be some type of proce­dural provision for cases that may not need for a disciplinary record to be opened,” student body vice president Cynthia Weber said. “Can the Office of Residence Life enact educational action without disciplinary action?” 
Student body president Grant Schmidt said misunderstandings about the rules in du Lac could deter students from properly reporting an unsafe situation. Cases of medical amnesty and leniency for first-time offenses were brought forward as exam­ples of policies that may need clarification. 

“Our whole reason for main­taining disciplinary records is to document a student’s history in case of further offense and to cre­ate records if we should have to deal with inquiries from other institutions,” Kirk said. 
Kirk said the University has “a whole series of levels of sanc­tions” in place to regulate the dis­ciplinary process and said that his office could benefit to learn from any research on these issues. 
Community service as a sanc­tion for certain behaviors was analyzed during the last meeting, and members of the Council agreed this volunteer time was an appropriate disciplinary response. 
“Community service is a way for students who have taken something away from community to give something back,” Zahm Hall rector Corry Colonna said. 
Another disciplinary issue on the table was the University’s handling of drinking games. The current policy in du Lac cites par­ticipation in drinking games as abusive drinking, a statement that the members of du Lac advised relaxing. 
“We have heard the desire on several occasions to see more flexibility in the drinking game policy,” Weber said. “While I am not advocating drinking games, most advocate more social drink­ing than excess.” 
Schmidt questioned whether students are drawn off campus during the weekends because of the stringent policy on drinking games in dorm rooms. He pointed out that students of legal drinking age are not allowed to partake in drinking games on campus. 
“I think that the vast majority of the drinking that goes on campus is illegal,” Kirk said. “And though we respect the privacy of stu­dent’s rooms, I would hesitate to extend that policy to drinking games.” 

Kirk said the Office of Residence Life would not consid­er revising its stance on drinking games. 
“The purpose of most drinking games is to consume a lot of alco­hol in a short period of time,” Kirk said. “And frankly, it can be considered sinful to deliberately give up your ability to make good and rational decisions that way.” 
Other suggestions for the Office of Residence Life included meth­ods to make students more aware of the policies in the student handbook. 
Council member Bridget Bredemann posed the idea of a video for freshman orientation in order to make du Lac regulations more approachable, and she sug­gested using the off-campus Web site as a “resource to clarify what is relevant for students living off campus.” 
The Council will continue dis­cussions of the du Lac revisions with Kirk as the review process continues. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 9, 2010 



SMC switches to Active Directory 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
As a way to make the techno­logical network more efficient, the Information Technology department at Saint Mary’s College has recently adopted a new program. 
Active Directory will improve the current networking services that are offered on campus, Janice Thomasson, chief infor­mation officer said. 
In order to make the switch, students were asked to follow a link provided by the Information Technology depart­ment. After typing in their user­names and passwords, students had made the switch. If stu­dents did not make the change by Feb. 1, they would be unable to access Bellaire, the wireless network on campus, as well as their Blackboard and Zimbra accounts. 
“Students were asked several times in the last few weeks via e-mail to migrate to Active Directory and were warned they would be unable to get to Bellaire Wireless, their Saint Mary’s College e-mail or Blackboard if they did not do so,” Thomasson said. “Despite these requests some students still did not do so. The ResNet office in [Haggar College Center] did a brisk business on Monday, Feb. 1 with students who had not migrated.” 
Active Directory will allow the Information Technology depart­ment the ability to manage the network on their own, Thomasson said. 
“With it now in place, we can move forward with projects like self-service password changes, the ability to share files between departments and more collaborative opportunities,” she said. 

According to Thomasson, Active Directory will help keep passwords away from phishers and offer additional storage space. 
“Active Directory manages our passwords and keeps them safe from prying eyes. It also keeps your computer’s name unique so you can access the Internet,” Thomasson said. “Additional storage will be offered in the year ahead as an Active Directory benefit. Zimbra e-mail is also more robust with less downtime.” 
According to Thomasson, most of the action is behind the scenes and the program allows the Information Technology staff to communicate more effectively and efficiently. 
“It is a special way of organiz­ing our network and its resources so users can commu­nicate more efficiently,” she said. “Most of the Information Technology staff’s current Active Directory activity is behind the scenes, involving how end user information is managed on the network.” 
Thomasson said the network will change because of the switch creating a more effective communication atmosphere. 
“The way in which [the Saint Mary’s College] network is organized is changing since we migrated to Active Directory,” she said. “Those who are likely to often communicate or share files with each other will be configured so they can do this more efficiently.” 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 


Saint Mary’s supports South Bend food bank 
By BRITTANY VANSNEPSON 
News Writer 
In a campus-wide effort to pro­vide food options for the less for­tunate, the Saint Mary’s College’s Office for Civic and Social Engagement (OCSE) will be col­lecting boxed and canned food for a local project their canned or boxed donations. 

“As always, the good thing about a food drive is that for a very small amount of money you can buy a single can of food,” said Call. 
The Food Bank is hoping that the relatively cheap prices of canned food will encourage stu­
dent involve­
ment. 

“Going out of 
“The food being 
called Neighbors my way to give in Need this collected is for the food is a small month. Northern Indiana Fod price to pay to 
Saint Mary’s know that some-
Bank.” 
was invited to one has food in participate by their belly local news station Carrie Call tonight,” sopho-WSBT-TV, along-director more Taylor side different Chamberlain 
Offce for Civic and
agencies that said. 
Social Engagement
plan to help with The OCSE has 
the drive. The project runs throughout the month until Feb. 
12. The food will then be collect­ed at the WSBT-TV studio on Feb. 15. 
“The food being collected is for the Northern Indiana Food Bank,” Carrie Call, director of the College’s OCSE, said. 
The Food Bank, located in South Bend, helps to provide food for those in need throughout the county’s limits. 
Students are encouraged to get involved, and large boxes are placed in the residence halls for held annual food 

drives before, but this is the first time it has been in collaboration with WSBT-TV. In the past, it worked side by side with the Saint Mary’s cross coun­try team to collect and count donations to redistribute to local food banks. 
The OCSE has tried to put a new spin on food donations in the past, by, for instance, asking for once a week canned food dona­tions during the Lenten season. 
Contact Brittany VanSnepson at bvansn01@saintmarys.edu 


Lecture examines science of autism 
Diehl said there have been expanding definitions and increasing awareness about autism and this could lead to the increase of children diag­nosed with autism. 
“There has been a huge increase in interest about autism and our own aware­ness. And awareness leads to more diagnoses,” Diehl said. 
He then spoke on the criti­cism that autism has been over-diagnosed. He said he 
is, what it looks like and what sci­ence tells us 

“There has been a 
about autism. 

huge increase in
Diehl began with a brief histo-interest about autism ry of autism. He 
and our own 
said it was once 

awareness. And
believed that autism was not a awareness leads to biological issue — 
more diagnoses.” 
a theory that has now been dis­credited. 

Joshua Diehl “The blame for director this condition was 
Center for Children and 
on cold parents,” 
Families 

Diehl said. “Research has been wrong on this issue for a long time.” 
Some research shows autism appears to be on the rise, but Diehl said it is diffi­cult to find solid statistics to show this. 
“Now that we know more and more about autism, we are diagnosing more kids at 8, 9 and 10 years old,” Diehl said. 
believes autism is 
over -diag ­nosed but also under-diagnosed. Autism may be under-diagnosed in smaller com­munities due to lack of resources or awareness. But it also may be over-diagnosed in larger com­munities so 
children can have increased services. 
Diehl also examined some causes of autism. He explained the causes of autism are most likely both genetic and environmental. 
“The majority of cases seem to originate from a complex genetic predisposition,” he said. “Anywhere from three to 10 genes contribute. We do know that it is four times more common in males than it is in females.” 
There are some people who believe that vaccines can cause autism, Diehl said. But there is no direct evidence or research that can prove or disprove this. 
“A small minority of chil­dren can have reactions to vaccines that could lead to a neurodevelopmental disorder, although all large scale research studies show no link between autism and vac­cines,” Diehl said. 
This controversial issue led to a rift between some par­ents and some members of the medical community. 
“Even if there is a link between vaccines and autism, it would probably only explain a small number of cases. Not vaccinating a child likely puts them at a greater risk for neurodevelopmental disor­ders,” Diehl said. 
The best intervention is early intervention. There is no cure for autism but there are multiple treatments such as medications and alternative approaches like special diets and different supplements. 
“Treatment must get as much attention as identifica­tion and finding the causes and I support parents trying to do all that they can for their children,” Diehl said. 
Contact Carolynn Smith at csmith02@saintmarys.edu 


By CAROLYNN SMITH 
News Writer 

Guest speaker Joshua Diehl, director of the Notre Dame Center for Children and Families, presented “Solving the Autism Puzzle” Monday evening on Saint Mary’s cam­pus as part of Student Diversity Board’s Disabilities Awareness Week events. 
Diehl explained what autism 



World & Nation 
Tuesday, February 9, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 


Venezuela declares energy emergency 
CARACAS, Venezuela — President Hugo Chavez has signed a decree declaring an energy emergency in Venezuela to facilitate his govern­ment’s efforts to ease severe energy shortages. 
Venezuela imposed electricity and water rationing in December to prevent a collapse of the electricity grid as severe drought drops water levels behind the Guri Dam to critical lows. The dam supplies most of Venezuela’s electricity. 
Energy Minister Ali Rodriguez says the gov­ernment must accelerate plans to reduce ener­gy consumption while boosting production. 
Chavez signed the emergency decree Monday. 

Commander charged with murder 
TORONTO — The commander of Canada’s largest Air Force base, who once flew digni­taries around the country, has been charged with first-degree murder in the deaths of two women. 
Ontario Provincial Police Det. Insp. Chris Nicholas said Monday that Col. Russell Williams, 46, was arrested Sunday in Ottawa. He was also charged in the sexual assaults of two other women. 
The charges left Canada’s military in a state of shock. 
Williams, a 23-year military veteran, was appointed as the base commander of Canadian Forces Base Trenton in Trenton, Ontario last July. Trenton is Canada’s busiest Air Force base and is providing logistical support for Canada’s missions in Haiti and Afghanistan. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Abortion activists monitored 
MADISON, Wis. — The U.S. Department of Homeland Security conducted a threat assess­ment of local pro-and anti-abortion rights activists before an expected rally last year, even though they did not pose a threat to national security. 
The DHS destroyed or deleted its copies of the assessment after an internal review found it vio­lated intelligence-gathering guidelines by col­lecting and sharing information about “protest groups which posed no threat to homeland security,” according to a department memo written last year. 
The report was only shared with police in Middleton and with the director of the Wisconsin Statewide Information Center, an intelligence-gathering hub, according to the memo, which was signed by general counsel Ivan Fong and inspector general Richard Skinner. 

Investigation follows fatal explosion 
MIDDLETOWN, Conn. — Authorities look­ing for the cause of an explosion that killed five people at a power plant under construc­tion launched a criminal investigation Monday, saying they could not rule out crimi­nal negligence as the cause. 
“If everything went right, we wouldn’t all be here right now,” Middletown Mayor Sebastian Guiliano said. “There’s a point where negligence raises to the level of crimi­nal conduct, and that’s what we’re investigat­ing.” 
The powerful explosion blew apart large swaths of the nearly completed 620­megawatt Kleen Energy plant as workers for the construction company O&G Industries Inc. were purging a gas line Sunday morning. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Spill shuts down major road 
ELKHART, Ind. — A fuel spill in a north­ern Indiana railroad yard caused authori­ties to close a main road while it was cleaned up. 
Elkhart police say it took firefighters and hazardous materials crews about two hours to clean the about 200 gallons of spilled fuel at the Norfolk Southern rail-yard on the city’s west side. 
Authorities closed Old U.S. 33 until early Monday while the work was being done. No injuries were reported. Details of what caused the spill weren’t immediately released. 
AUSTRIA 



Iran plans to enrich more uranium 
World leaders alarmed and call for restrictions; Iran asserts peaceful intentions 
Associated Press 

VIENNA — Iran pressed ahead Monday with plans that will increase its ability to make nuclear weapons as it formally informed the 
U.N. nuclear agency of its intention to enrich uranium to higher levels. 
Alarmed world powers questioned the rationale behind the move and warned the country it could face more U.N. sanctions if it made good on its inten­tions. 
Iran maintains its nuclear activities are peaceful, and an envoy insisted the move was meant only to provide fuel for Tehran’s research reactor. But world powers fearing that Iran’s enrich­ment program might be a cover for a weapons pro­gram were critical. 
Britain said the Islamic Republic’s reason for fur­ther enrichment made no sense because it is not tech­nically advanced enough to turn the resulting material into the fuel rods needed for the reactor. 
France and the U.S. said the latest Iranian move left no choice but to push hard­er for a fourth set of U.N. Security Council sanctions to punish Iran’s nuclear defiance. 
Even a senior parliamen-percent. Still, Monday’s for-levels would be able to stay agency’s 35-nation board tarian from Russia, which mal notification was signifi-on site to monitor the made available to The traditionally opposes cant, particularly because process. Associated Press. Western ambitions for new of Iran’s waffling in recent He suggested world pow-Iran’s atomic energy 
U.N. sanctions, suggested months on the issue. ers had pushed Iran into organization informed the the time had now come for Western powers blame the decision, asserting that agency that “production of such additional punishment Iran for rejecting an inter-it was their fault that the less than 20 percent 
Konstantin Kosachev, nationally endorsed plan to plan that foresaw Russian enriched uranium is being head of the international take Iranian low enriched and French involvement in foreseen,” said the note. affairs committee of the uranium, further enriching supplying fuel from “Less than 20 percent” State Duma — the lower it and return it in the form enriched uranium for the means enrichment to a tiny house of parliament — told of fuel rods for the reactor Tehran research reactor fraction below that level — the Interfax news agency — and in broader terms for had failed. in effect 20 percent but for-that the international com-turning down other over-“Until now, we have not mally just below threshold munity should “react to this tures meant to diminish received any response to for high enriched uranium. step with serious measures, concerns about its nuclear our positive logical and At the same time, the note including making the agenda. technical proposal,” he said. indicated that Iran was regime of economic sanc-Telling The Associated “We cannot leave hospitals keeping the agency in the tions more severe.” Press that his country now and patients desperately dark about specifics, saying 
Iranian President had formally told the waiting for radio isotopes” the IAEA “is in the process Mahmoud Ahmadinejad International Atomic being produced at the of seeking clarifications had already announced Energy Agency of its inten-Tehran reactor and used in from Iran regarding the Sunday that his country tions, Iranian envoy Ali cancer treatment, he added. starting date of the process would significantly enrich at Asghar Soltanieh said that The IAEA confirmed for the production of such least some of the country’s IAEA inspectors now over-receiving formal notification material and other techni­stockpile of uranium to 20 seeing enrichment to low in a restricted note to the cal details.” 


Man breaches security at Detroit airport 
fied as Kaylan L. Policherla, walked Thomas said. 
Associated Press 

through the checkpoint and a metal Dogs were used to search the portion 
ROMULUS, Mich. — A portion of a ter-detector with his hands in his jacket of the terminal that had been evacuat­minal at Detroit Metropolitan Airport pockets. ed, but nothing was found, Conway said. was evacuated Monday after a man Transportation Security Security screening resumed about an without a boarding pass walked through Administration workers activated an hour later, officials said. a passenger screening checkpoint and alarm, security doors were lowered at The complaint alleges that Policherla refused to obey security officers, officials the portion of the terminal between the violated federal security requirements. said. security checkpoint and terminal con-Policherla remained in custody Monday 
The man failed to stop about 7:45 course, and people were evacuated evening, but a court appearance was 
a.m. at the McNamara Terminal, the from that area, airport spokesman Mike not immediately scheduled, FBI spokes-Transportation Security Administration Conway said. woman Sandra Berchtold said. said. He was subdued by airport police A TSA screener followed Policherla The complaint said Policherla was after a stun gun failed to stop him, an until airport police arrived and ordered born in 1982 and his car, a Volkswagen FBI agent said. him to stop, Thomas said. An officer dis-Passat with Ohio license plates, was ille-
In a criminal complaint filed with U.S. charged a Taser at Policherla but it had gally parked outside the McNamara District Court in Detroit, FBI agent no effect, and officers then wrestled him Terminal before he entered the building. Michael Thomas said the man, identi-to the floor and handcuffed him, The vehicle was searched and towed. 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 9, 2010 


Kristof examines gender 
Journalist shares travel experiences to illustrate inequality 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
“Women aren’t the problem, they are the solution,” Nicholas Kristof, author and New York Times op-ed columnist, said during a lecture Monday, dis­cussing the importance of women in developing countries. 
He said women are the great­est and most under-used natu­ral resource. 
The lecture — held in Saint Mary’s O’Laughlin Auditorium 
— focused on themes from the book he co-authored with his wife, Sheryl WuDunn, titled “Half the Sky: Turning covering a story on human trafficking in Cambodia. He said he went to a brothel to talk to the women, and found one young girl whose mother didn’t have the money to buy her daughter back. Kristof bought two of the girls to free them from the brothel. He said he received receipts for both of the them. 
“When you get a written receipt for another human being, that’s just a disgrace to all of mankind,” Kristof said. 
Kristof offered ideas to help improve conditions for women in these countries, highlighting education as one of the more 

Oppression into “There is no magic 
Opportunity for bullet to fghtingWomen 
poverty. But, the 
Worldwide.” The book tells single thing that is 
stories of the closest, that makes women he and 
more of a difference
his wife have met during their trav-than any other, els and even is education” 
some women whose lives 

Nicholas Kristof
Kristof directly affected. op-ed columnist Kristof said he New York Times believed the largest problem 
important steps to the problem. 
“There is no magic bullet to fighting p o v e rt y, ” Kristof said. “But, the sin­gle thing that is closest, that makes more of a difference than any other, is edu­cation.” 
He said there were small solu­sider. 

“It’s not just a matter of put­ting up school buildings,” Kristof said. “It’s things we never even think about.” 
He said for college students to really be educated, they need to spend time abroad in developing nations. 
“One of the reasons I really encourage you to go out and spend time in the grassroots is because then you’ll have a bet­ter sense of what does work to make that kind of difference,” Kristof said. 
He said he recognizes these issues are “depressing” and seem “vast,” but even helping one person is making a differ­ence. 
“What is important to know is that you truly can make a deep difference with some peo­ple, and that is an incredibly important difference,” Kristof said. “You don’t have to solve the whole problem to make a difference.” 
He said he has seen some terrible things in his travels, saying it takes the worst of humanity to bring out the best in it. 
“It truly does bring out the best of humanity and they express that humanity with courage, with altruism and it’s very inspiring,” Kristof said. 
In closing, Kristof said he did not merely want to educate students on these issues, but also generate action. 
“For you students to have some pillar throughout your life that is about some larger cause, I think would be a major source of fulfillment for you,” Kristof said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 




Ethics 
continued from page 1 

Valentine’s Day because it’s a time when you’re expressing your love very explicitly,” Milani said. “It’s a time of sincerity, of meaning.” 
The speakers for this year’s events include University President Fr. John Jenkins, local Bishop Kevin Rhoades and director of the Women’s Care Center in Mishawaka Bobby Williams. Past speakers have included Digger Phelps, Chris Zorich and University President Emeritus Fr. Edward “Monk” Malloy. 
Notre Dame is often listed as one of the world’s top universi­ties in the area of business ethics, a tradition that Malani said stems from the very begin­ning of the University’s history. 
“Our first dean was Cardinal O’Hara,” he said. “Ethics is in our DNA.” 
For students and faculty who may not have had exposure to 

Edith 
continued from page 1 

the 2010 Edith Stein Project, said the conference will exam­ine the relational nature of human beings in terms of a lot of separate issues, such as mar­riage, the family, homosexuali­ty, sexual violence and eating disorders. 
“While the conference has focused on women and women’s issues in the past, we 
decided on a theme that would bring out more on the human person and human rela­tionships,” Roman said. 
This year, over 30 people will present at the conference, she said. 
Notable speak­ers include Mother Dolores Hart, a Benedictine nun 

from Connecticut and a former Hollywood actress, once star­ring in a film alongside Elvis. Hart will share thoughts on how relationships played a role in finding her vocation, Roman said. 
Sarah Johnson, also a co-chair of the conference, said the Edith Stein Project is especially important in a culture where many problems, like sexual assault and eating disorders, are all associated with identity. 
“These issues or problems have deeper theological and philosophical dimensions, ethics in their education, Ethics Week serves as a way to facili­tate discussion for both the present and future, as well as inside and outside the class­room, he said. 
“It’s a chance to hear a dia­logue on a very controversial topic,” Malani said. “[University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh] has said that Notre Dame is where the Church does it’s thinking. I agree with that.” 
Rhoades, bishop of the dio­cese of Fort Wayne-South Bend, was the first speaker in the series. His lecture titled “Ethics, Morality and Religion: Their Impact on the Abortion Issue,” took place Monday in the Giovanini Commons of the Mendoza building. Jenkins will speak today at 12:30 p.m. in the Giovanini Commons on “The Ethics of Leadership,” and Williams will speak on Wednesday at 12:30 p.m., also in the Commons. 
Contact Megan Hemler at mhemler@nd.edu 

which go into the very root of being,” she said. “That is really what the conference is all about.” 
Both Roman and Johnson got involved with the Edith Stein Project early in their college careers. 
“A friend had recommended the conference to me during my freshman year,” Johnson said.  
Her interest piqued, and she went and has been attending it ever since. 
Roman’s involvement with the conference began when she 
attended it for 
the first time facing the 21st century is gen­der inequality. 
“When you put together this kind of lethal discrimination on top of sex-selective abortion, then you have somewhere between 60 and 100 million females who have been dis­criminated against to death in the world,” Kristof said. 
He used several stories from his own experiences through­out the lecture, including an anecdote from when he was tions to the problem that would help increase attendance in schools. Worms were one prob­lem he touched on that kept children out of the classroom. He also said many high school-aged girls would have to miss class due to their menstrual cycles because they did not have the proper sanitary mate­rials to deal with it. Kristof used these examples to show “cheap” solutions to the prob­lem people don’t generally con­

“It spoke to me as an honest and frank effort to reach out to other people, no matter their thoughts or beliefs.” 
JoAnna Roman co-chair Edith Stein Project 
during her soph omore year. She said she was inspired by the presentations and the spirit of those work­ing on the con­ference. 
“It spoke to me as an hon­
est and frank 
effort to reach 
out to other people, no matter their thoughts or beliefs,” she said. 
Speakers will present throughout the day Friday and Saturday on various topics including motherhood and fatherhood, vocations and con­traception. 
A Mass, dinner and discussion with John D’Arcy, former bish­op of the Fort Wayne-South Bend diocese, will be held on Friday, beginning with the Mass at 5:15 p.m. 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 


The Observer 



Business
Tuesday, February 9, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

MySpace Music to audio advertise 
LOS ANGELES — Hoping to boost revenue, MySpace Music has begun experimenting with audio advertisements that users must hear if they want to listen to music for free online. 
The 30-second ads began appearing last week when users listen to songs on artist pro­files, album pages, playlists and pop-out play­ers. They expand on a trial that began in December. 
The ads are impossible to avoid, unlike the visual, banner ads that can be put out of sight in background windows as users listen along while doing other Web surfing or computer work. But the audio ads are timed so that a user can listen to up to 100 songs on a playlist or to a full album with just a single interrup­tion after the first song. 
The oral pitches make online listening more like over-the-air radio, although online listen­ers can choose which songs they hear. 
MySpace Music, a joint venture between major recording companies and News Corp., wants to boost the frequency of such ads this month before settling on how often they’ll be running. Other online music sites such as Pandora and Yahoo Music already run similar audio ads. 

Fiat 500 to be built in Mexico 
MEXICO CITY — Chrysler Group LLC says it will invest $550 million to build the Fiat 500 minicar at its assembly plant near Mexico City. 
Chrysler CEO Sergio Marchionne says the new work at its Toluca plant will create 400 jobs. He said Monday the company will begin making the model in December for U.S. and Latin American markets. 
Mexican President Felipe Calderon says Chrysler will produce between 100,000 and 130,000 vehicles at the plant, creating about 1,200 indirect jobs. Chrysler says the Mexican government has provided a $400 million incentive package for the project, the majority of it as loans. 
Chrysler, controlled by Italian automaker Fiat Group SpA, already employs 2,000 workers to manufacture the PT Cruiser sedan and the Dodge Journey at the factory. 
The automaker also has a truck assembly plant in the northern Mexico city of Saltillo. 


Oil drilling debate continues 
Environmental groups rethink agreement regarding California offshore drilling 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES — Nearly two years ago, a broad coalition of environmental groups celebrated a deal with a Texas oil company that promised to eventually end its drilling operations off California’s scenic Santa Barbara County coast. 
Now, a growing number of those former eco allies are lining up against the plan, in part because no one outside a small circle of supporters was allowed to read the final agree­ment. 
Many also wonder if the 2022 end date for drilling is enforceable and worry the deal with Plains Exploration & Production, known as PXP, could inad­vertently end a 40-year moratorium on new off­shore drilling along the entire California coast. 
About 110 groups have joined the “Oppose PXP Coalition.” Among its members is the Sierra Club, which initially endorsed the deal and was still listed as a supporter on the PXP Web site long after the group changed its position. 
The company has used the roster of environmental backers to win public sup­port for the proposal. embracing offshore drilling would not say how many waters to Tranquillon 
“It’s very frustrating,” in federal waters,” said supporters were still Ridge, a formation in state said Michael Endicott of Assemblyman Pedro Nava, onboard. She believes waters. the Sierra Club. “I asked a critic of the deal who is those who joined the oppo-Its pact with the three them to do it last year. Stop running for state attorney sition only object to parts groups also calls for the saying Sierra Club is in general. of the governor’s proposal, company to donate 3,900 support of the project — The 27 oil platforms now not the deal with PXP. acres (1,580 hectares) to we’re not.” operating off the Central “Every local group we The Trust for Public Land 
The growing opposition and Southern California had is still on board,” she and make a contribution of comes at a critical time, coasts produced 13.3 mil-said. $1.5 million to a fund that with politicians eyeing the lion barrels of oil in 2009, Many critics outside could be used to purchase coast for more drilling as a a small fraction of the Santa Barbara have taken hybrid buses. way to bolster battered amount used in the U.S. aim on the Environmental Such terms initially drew budgets. PXP spokesman Scott Defense Center and Get Oil support from environmen-
Gov. Arnold Winters did not respond to Out!, which formed after a tal groups beyond the Schwarzenegger recently e-mailed questions and 1969 oil spill from an off-three that signed the deal. proposed using royalties calls for comment. The shore platform off Santa Others, such as Coastwalk generated by leasing state company also has opera-Barbara County fouled California, took no posi­land to PXP to fund state tions in Texas, Louisiana miles of ocean and shore-tion. parks. President Barack and the Gulf of Mexico. line in wildlife-killing goo. Criticism hit a new high Obama indicated he might Linda Krop of the The other group to sign the last month, when the support more offshore Environmental Defense deal was the Citizens agreement was leaked to drilling as a way to bolster Center, the lead attorney Planning Association. the media. Its confidentiali­domestic oil production. for the three respected PXP wants to slant drill ty was a major concern for 
“Approval of PXP will be environmental groups that about 30 new shafts from environmentalists and reg-interpreted nationally as signed the agreement, Platform Irene in federal ulators. 


Boeing’s biggest plane completes flight 
Associated Press longer than the existing 747-400 jumbo After completing the test program, 
jet. The company conducted taxi tests the first freighter will be refitted and 
EVERETT, Wash. — Boeing Co.’s on the freighter Saturday, with the air-delivered to Cargolux. giant 747-8 freighter — the biggest craft performing well, Boeing said. The freighter version is to enter serv­plane the company has ever built — Boeing also is developing a passenger ice late this year. The first delivery was successfully completed its first flight version of the plane. It lists 76 orders to have been in late 2009 and the first Monday, a year later than originally for the freighter and 32 for the 747-8 passenger version in late 2010, but planned. passenger jet, with the vast majority Boeing pushed back the dates due to 
The huge plane took off from from international customers. design changes, limited engineering Everett’s Paine Field at 12:39 p.m. PST The company says the jets will be resources and an eight-week strike that after a weather delay. It returned to much quieter, more fuel efficient and shut down factories. Paine at 4:18 p.m. have lower emissions than current 747-Boeing’s European rival Airbus had 
Hundreds of employees and other 400 models. planned a freighter version of the airplane fans gathered to watch the Boeing launched the freighter pro-Airbus A380, the world’s largest pas-plane take to the air. The flight came gram on Nov. 14, 2005, with firm senger jet. However, that program was just one day short of the 41st anniver-orders for 10 planes from Cargolux of put on hold in 2007 after FedEx Corp. sary of the first flight of the original 747 Luxembourg and eight from Nippon and UPS Inc. canceled their orders, model. Cargo Airlines of Japan. The jet has a leaving Airbus with an empty order 
At 250 feet long — more than twice list price of more than $301 million, book for the cargo plane. The A380 air-the length of the Wright Brothers’ first though airlines commonly negotiate liner made its first flight in April 2005 flight — the plane is about 18 feet discounts. and went into service in October 2007. 
page 8 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, February 9, 2010 Tuesday, February 9, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
Election 
continued from page 1 
run-off election. In order to win without a run-off election, the ticket must win by more than 50 percent of the vote. 
“This is the first time in at least four years that we haven’t had a runoff,” he said. 
In total, 4,177 students voted in the election, making this year’s turnout the second highest voter turn out on record, vice president for elections of the Judicial Council Marcelo Perez said. 
Last year holds the record for highest voted turnout with 4,509 votes, he said. 
Soler, who will become Notre Dame’s fifth female student body president, said she is grateful to everyone who voted and sup­ported her ticket. 
“We’re grateful for the faith that people had in us, [that] they could see our experience, and our passion and commitment, and not use our age as some­thing that would deter them,” she said. “We’re very excited and a little humbled by how much people really cared about the elections here.” 
Bell said they plan to begin working on their initiatives prior to their official instatement April 1. 
“We’re going to be getting started right away to meet with more administrators and estab­lish more contacts to help us move forward,” Bell said. 
Once they officially begin lead­ing the student body, Soler said they will put their plans into action. 
“We could start on our text­book rental program, begin doing things for The Wall,” she said. “We can try to get new hummus in the dining hall.” 
The Wall will be a place in LaFortune where students can go to see all of the events hap­pening each week, Soler said. 

Bell added they will also work with outgoing student body pres­ident Grant Schmidt and vice president Cynthia Weber to learn what worked for them and con­tinue the successes of their administration. 
Soler said she would like to continue Schmidt and Weber’s presence as student leaders in the community. 
“I think Grant and Cynthia have been tremendous leaders in the community and that’s some­thing we definitely want to follow in their footsteps and be the face of the University in terms of community relations,” she said. 
The ticket also said they would like to increase student govern­ment’s visibility and emphasized their approachability. 
“I think people forget that we’re regular students. After this we’re going to study for account­ing,” Bell said. “We have home­work. We have the same stress­es. We get excited about the weekend. 
“When you have thoughts just come share them with us.” 
Soler said she is excited to begin her term as student body president, but also said she enjoyed the election process. 
“We are very respectful of our competitors,” she said. “It was a fun election.” 
Eras and Corona, who received 
25.1 percent of the vote, accept­ed their defeat with a smile. 
“I mean it’s good. It’s a relief. It’s closure,” Noel said. “Thank you Notre Dame students, it was a great experience.” 
Noel said he plans to continue his ideas for “Perspectives,” a series of interactive lectures where students and professors would discuss intellectual issues. 
“Professors are really interest­ed in that,” he said. “I think our venue now to be able to get this done is through a student club.” 
Ledet and Alvare, the Zahm ticket, said they were pleased they received more votes than the option to abstain and plan to celebrate. 

“I think we’re just going to party,” Ledet said. 
Soler and Bell said they were excited to officially become pres­ident and vice president and get 
moving on their platforms. their leaders, but to work with “We’re really excited to be [the them.” 
student body’s] leaders,” Soler 
said. Contact Sarah Mervosh at 
Bell added, “And not only to be smervosh@nd.edu 




Notre Dame to host Brazilian Carnaval 
Special to The Observer 

Vibrant Brazilian dance rhythms will transport revelers from South Bend to the streets of Rio de Janeiro during Notre Dame’s 12th annual celebration of Brazilian Carnaval, to be held Friday from 8 p.m. to midnight in South Dining Hall. The family-friendly event is free and open to the public. 
The Brazilian celebration of Mardi Gras, Carnaval will feature professional Brazilian dancers performing and teaching dance steps to the authentic axe and samba music of Chicago Samba. Directed by Moacyr Marchini, Chicago Samba features Brazilian musicians who have performed together for almost 20 years. 
Carnaval participants include students, area residents, mem­bers of the local Brazilian com­munity, and lots of kids. All don their Carnaval beads and dance the night away. 
“Carnaval brings everyone together in an event that is differ­ent from anything else in South Bend,” said Tatiana Spragins, a Brazilian who is president of the Portuguese Language Club. “It gives the vibe of Brazilian culture and the fun is contagious.” 
Brazil Club president Valerie Kornfield, who grew up in Brazil, agreed. 
“Carnaval shows Brazil’s love of music and dancing and the joy that characterizes Brazilians,” she said. “It is a great party, my favorite event of the year.” 
Carnaval is sponsored by Notre Dame’s Kellogg Institute for International Studies, which brings together scholars, students and policymakers to study impor­tant international problems fac­ing humanity. 
Co-sponsors of the event include the Latin American Studies Program, the Institute for Latino Studies, Catering by Design, the Brazil Club, the Portuguese Language Club, the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures, and the Department of Transportation Services at Notre Dame; WVPE Radio, Microtel Inn and Suites, and AudioBahn Productions, LLC. 

The Observer 


Viewpoint 
page 10 Tuesday, February 9, 2010 
THE OBSERVER First Amendment vindicated 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 


ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Madeline Buckley Douglas Farmer Megan Doyle Michael Blasco Nikki Taylor Matt Robison Graphics Scene Blair Chemidlin Jess Shaffer Viewpoint Nick Anderson Lauren Brauweiler 
What the President’s critics have labeled a shocking breech of decorum during his State of the Union Address, combined with Justice Samuel Alito’s mouthed disapproval while his col­leagues sat stony-faced amidst lav­ish applause from congressional Democrats, set off a flurry of contro­versy that has drawn even more attention to the Supreme Court’s recent ruling in Christie Citizens United v. Pesavento Federal Election 

Right Winging 
Commission. 
It

Why did this case create such a stir? Let’s begin with the background. 
In 2008, a nonprofit conservative group known as Citizens United pro­duced a documentary criticizing then-presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and sought to run commercials for the film. Unfortunately, a little something called the Bipartisan Campaign Reform Act of 2002 (also known as McCain-Feingold) stood in its way. The Act makes it illegal for corporations and unions from dipping into their general treasury funds for independent expendi­tures that are classified as “electioneer­ing communication,” or speech that advocates for or against a candidate running for office 30 days before the pri­mary elections. A district court ruled that the commercials violated the Act despite Citizen United’s claim that the documentary was nonpartisan and based solely on facts. 
The organization appealed to the Supreme Court, and the case was argued two separate times, first in March of 2009 and again last August. Finally, on Jan. 21, the Court delivered its ruling, with the majority finding that McCain-Feingold’s restriction on expen­ditures was an unconstitutional encroachment on the right of corpora­tions to speak freely in political cam­paigns. 
The decision sent cheers through the ranks of conservative and libertarian 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
OBSERVER POLL 
Which of these is the best student government platform idea? 
Treehouse “Perspectives” series Follett textbook rental Other 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
circles and prompted ominous predic­tions of electoral Armageddon from lib­erals, including the Commander in Chief: 
“Last week, the Supreme Court reversed a century of law to open the floodgates for special interests — includ­ing foreign corporations — to spend without limit in our elections. Well I don’t think American elections should be bankrolled by America’s most powerful interests, or worse, by foreign entities.” 
This statement, made during the State of the Union Address, was what elicited the “not true” remark from Justice Alito. And for good reason. 
For starters, the charge of overturning “a century of law” is a substantial exag­geration. The Court did reverse its 1990 decision in Austin v. Michigan Chamber of Commerce that upheld a ban on inde­pendent political expenditures by corpo­rations, but the 1907 prohibition of direct political contributions remains untouched. In fact, the decision in Citizen’s United specifically criticizes Austin as “a significant departure from ancient First Amendment principles.” Indeed, Austin was the first decision in the Court’s history to uphold a restric­tion on independent political speech. So it was the twenty year old ruling that marked a significant reversal of past precedent, not Citizen’s United. 
The president was also incorrect in stating that the ruling “opens the flood­gates for special interests — including foreign corporations.” Aside from the patent hypocrisy of his attack on special interests when, as a candidate, Obama was positively swimming in special inter­est donations and decided against public funding of his campaign to avoid the spending limits it would have entailed, the allegation itself is a complete mis­representation of the facts. The section of Federal Election Commission law ban­ning foreign nationals, including corpo­rations, from contributing money to American elections remains on the books. Justice Kennedy even went out of his way to explicitly state, “We need not reach the question whether the govern­ment has a compelling interest in pre­venting foreign individuals or associa­tions from influencing our nation’s politi­cal process.” In other words, the main issue at stake in Citizens United was whether corporate political speech deserves the same First Amendment rights as that of an individual, not whether foreign nationals should be able to interfere with elections in the United States. 

Speaking of which, the claim that cor­porations are not covered by the First Amendment because they do not consti­tute individual persons is “short-sighted at best,” according to former Federal Election Commissioner Hans von Spakovsky. “Corporations, after all, are just collections of individuals, and the First Amendment protects their right to petition the government for redress of grievances.” 
Moreover, the fear that those evil cor­porations will now be able to buy elec­tions that many expressed after the rul­ing was released is largely unfounded, thanks in part to the fact that many cor­porations donate opportunistically rather than according to deeply-held political beliefs, hoping to gain the favor of whichever side is ultimately elected. In fact, data from OpenSecrets.org demonstrate that between 1998 and 2009, corporations overwhelmingly favored the Democratic Party. Perhaps Obama and co. should have turned down those donations in the name of fairness and equality. 
The bottom line is that freedom of speech, especially the political kind, lies at the core of American democracy. Its denial bars one from participating fully in self-government, and its protection has remained a central component of Supreme Court doctrine for centuries. Fortunately, by striking down the limita­tions imposed on corporations by McCain-Feingold, the Court has vindicat­ed the right of all Americans, including those associated through corporations, to full participation in our democratic system. 
Christie Pesavento is a senior who is majoring in political science and sociology. She can be reached at cpesaven@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“It’s very easy to feel someone’spain when you love them.” 
Salma Hayek actress 


The Observer 





Viewpoint 
Tuesday, February 9, 2010 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Have a heart, save a heart 
Everybody knows that Feb. 14 is Valentine’s Day, a time to shower your loved ones with flow­ers and candy in order to show that your heart is in the right place. (Boys with girlfriends — don’t forget!) But what a lot of people don’t know is that the month of February also raises awareness about another type of heart — your actual heart. February is officially American Heart Month. It’s the month where the American Heart Association raises awareness about heart disease and tries to share tips on how to stay heart healthy because, unfortunately, Coronary Heart Disease is the No. 1 killer in America. Think about that. 
The sad thing is that a lot of heart disease is preventable. People who know me might not know this but I am a survivor of heart disease. When I was 11-years-old, I was diagnosed with sick sinus syndrome, a congenital heart defect that requires an implanted pacemaker to help my heart main­tain proper functioning. To me, proper heart health is important. My heart disease reminds me daily that I can do things daily to strengthen my heart and prevent further heart disease down the road. I can ride my bike to class, I can go for a run around the lakes, I could eat Cheerios instead of Lucky Charms, I could have chicken pizza instead of pepperoni and ham, I can climb the stairs instead of taking the elevator. Heart disease is incredibly preventable by watching your weight, being physically active, eating healthy foods and avoiding excessive alcohol consump­tion. So for Valentine’s Day this weekend, treat both your hearts right. 
Celebrate American Heart Month and keep heart disease away! 
Melissa Vondriska 
junior 

Lewis Hall 
Feb. 7 


LGBTQ support from MEChA 
In light of the recent discussion relating to the gay, lesbian, bi-sexual, transgender and question­ing population on our campus, it has come to the attention of our club, MEChA, (Movimiento Estudantil Chicano de Aztlan) that the struggle these friends are facing now is not unlike the struggle many of us have faced in the past. We also have been mocked, told to change, been refused justice, even physically hurt. We know what it is to feel self conscious about our words, our actions and the way we look. To be afraid of persecution because of a characteristic we cannot change, a characteristic we are born with, leads us to not only doubt ourselves, but also the people we are surrounded by. Committing any of these actions, or ones like them, is against everything our Christian faith tells us. 
We are supposed to love our neighbor, whether they are gay or straight, white or colored, men or women, as we would love ourselves. How then can our faith-based University tell us that these mem­bers of our school are not subject to protection against harassment and ridicule? Including sexual orientation in the non-discrimination clause does not mean the University condones homosexual or otherwise alternative lifestyles any more than including “religion” condones the practice of ritual sacrifice on campus. All it means is that the University respects these individuals as human beings with a particular difference that should not be targeted by any person, group or entity. 
That being said, the members of MEChA proudly declare their support of all the LGBTQ community. We also support the inclusion of sexual orientation under the non-discrimination clause, and the observance of the Gay/Straight Alliance as an offi­cial university organization. It is well known that students walking around with bright orange shirts saying “Gay? Fine by Me” are allies of this cause. Now, we want it to be known that students wear­ing black and red MEChA shirts are, also. 
In Solidarity, 
MEChA 

Nicole Medina 
senior 

Walsh Hall 
Feb. 7 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 




Say cheese 
I would like to express my genuine anticipation for my favorite dining hall season: Lenten Fridays! I am so sick of the same dining hall food week-in and week-out. I am ready for the meatless classics like grilled pizza and cheese quesadillas to make their glorious return! Even better is the fact that while I consume these creative concoctions, I will get to entertain myself with the inevitable Observer Viewpoint flame war that will ensue. 
A freshman from Dillon will complain that he is Wiccan and should be able to eat meat whenever he wants. A sen­ior from off campus who probably doesn’t even eat in the dining hall anymore will counter that Jesus didn’t eat meat on Fridays. This simple exchange will explode until it takes up both (sometimes even three!) pages of Viewpoint. There is absolutely nothing more important to discuss that this intriguing issue. Thank you, Observer! 
Matt Mooney 
senior 
Alumni Hall 
Feb. 5 
UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON 

Music companies need to back off 
Federal Judge Michael Davis presided over a case earli­er this year where peer-to-peer user Jammie Thomas-Rasset was ordered to pay $1.92 million in damages for sharing 24 songs on the Internet. 
Davis made no comment on the amount of the award and showed no discernable emo-
Michael

tion as the judgment was read out. Thomas-Rasset appealed the Padon $1.92 million amount on the 
The Daily 

grounds that it was arbitrary and 
Cougar

unconstitutional, and Davis agreed with her. 
On Jan. 22, Davis reduced the amount of the damages, stating that the jury’s decision led to a “monstrous and shocking” damage award that veered into “the realm of gross injustice.” 
Davis used his power of remittitur to slash the damage award by 97.2 percent, from $1.92 million to $54,000, and he suggested that even this lower amount was too much. The difference between the two amounts shows that the initial number must have been pulled out of thin air. 
In his decision to reduce the award, Davis did not oppose the guilty verdict or fail to point out the inconsis­tencies Thomas-Rasset had shown during the trials. 
“Despite never implicating others during her depositions or testimony in the previous trial, in this second trial, she suddenly leveled new accusations against her children and ex-boyfriend, asserting that they might have commit­ted the infringement,” Davis wrote in the decision. “Thomas-Rasset’s refusal to accept responsibility for her actions and her decision to concoct a new theory of the infringement, casting possible blame on her children and ex-boyfriend for her actions, demonstrate a refusal to accept responsibility and raise the need for strong deter­rence.” 
Statutory damage laws were originally written with the intent of stopping commercial infringement. 
“In the case of individuals who infringe by using peer-to­peer networks, the potential gain from infringement is access to free music, not the possibility of hundreds of thousands — or even millions — of dollars in profits,” Davis wrote. “The need for deterrence cannot justify a $2 million verdict for stealing and illegally distributing 24 songs for the sole purpose of obtaining free music.” 
The Recording Industry Association of America was determined to make an example of Thomas-Rasset because it is fighting a losing battle when it comes to pros­ecuting every individual who illegally downloads music. 
Now, when record labels find someone stealing music, they try to take them for everything they are worth based on action and not intent. In this case, there was no mali­cious intent or any way Thomas-Rasset was reaping any kind of monetary reward other than not having to pay for the songs. 
Record labels need to stop prosecuting peer-to-peer users and punishing people for the industry’s faulty busi­ness model, and work out a way to succeed in the digital age. 
This column first ran in the Feb. 8 edition of The Daily Cougar, the daily newspaper serving The University of Houston. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 




Scene
page 12 Tuesday, February 9, 2010 


“Romance is By COURTNEY COX Boring,” “We’ve Scene Writer Got Your Back” 
does a good job of 

Like all great epics, the third Los showcasing the Campesinos! album, “Romance is general theme of Boring,” begins with “In Medias the entire album. Res.” The choice of title accurately Part of the song is reflects the turn that the band has toned down, in the taken in its follow up to 2008’s “We best way possible, Are Beautiful, We Are Doomed.” while the other 
The quintessentially British band is half is full of well-known for their upbeat refrains upbeat exclama­and cheery melodies, yet the sound tions from the of this new album is much more entire band. mature than anything Los Despite the fact Campesinos! has done before, yet it that Aleks handle. 
retains that unwavering enthusiasm Campesinos! (Campesinos! of course “The Sea is A Good Place to Think that made the group popular in the being the band’s collective surname) of the Future” comes near the end of first place. left the band to continue her studies, the album and is yet another sign of The opening track asks the ques-her vocals remain on this album, the band’s maturation. The lyrics tion, “If you were given the option of most notably so in “We’ve Got Your seem so honest and deep, it even dying painlessly in peace at 45 but Back.” It’s curious that her part in seems as though they were ripped with a lover at your side after a full the song is the more demure of the straight from someone’s diary. The and happy life, is this something that two, because it seems that the band song itself is great, but the music would interest you?” While this may will be sticking with the toned down video is even better. The simplicity of not in fact interest you, the rest of image despite her being gone. The a group of cool people just sitting on the album is sure to hold the atten-best part of the entire song, and the the beach is perfect. It would make tion of listeners, both devoted fans as part that will remind listeners most anyone want to run off to the nearest well as new recruits to the Los of the earlier work of the band, is the beach and just sit around for a while. 
Campesinos! camp. collective scream of, “If your hero “Romance is Boring” marks a shift The title track, “Romance is told you to go huff a sharpie what in gears for Los Campesinos! There Boring,” fits well considering the would you do? I do not know!” The is almost a tug of war going on rapidly approaching day dedicated to lyrics are certainly absurd, but the between staying young and growing romance alone. It may serve as a enthusiasm behind them is beyond up. This album shows both sides much-needed wake up call for the comparison. 
extremely well. It gives fans more of couples who have been disgusting Some of the songs seem to have a what they loved from previous the rest of the campus by publicly completely different feel from the Los albums while giving them a taste of displaying their affection in front of Campesinos! that came roaring out what the future may be like for the the fro-yo machine. “Romance is of the gate two years ago. “200-102” group. 
Boring” is a song that can easily be and “Heart Swells/100-1” are the It also happens to be the perfect sung by even the worst of tune carri-most notable. They clearly do not fit album for anyone who recently dis­ers which is a perfect example of the into the mold that Los Campesinos! 
covered that they would be spending group’s mission. created for themselves. They quite some time in Britain. Word of Songs from previous Los appeared to be so full of energy that advice: save the hours you would Campesinos! albums are mostly they needed to add an “!” at the end have spent rereading Harry Potter songs that are best screamed in a car of their name because otherwise the and just listen to Los Campesinos! 
full of good friends. It is refreshing to idea simply didn’t translate. On those instead. 
hear some of that old excitement two tracks, however, there is folksier brought into this new album. guitar and eerie whispering than a Contact Courtney Cox at 

The song immediately following Los Campesinos! fan may be able to ccox3@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 


Scene
Tuesday, February 9, 2010 page 13 
By KATHERINE GREENSPON 
Scene Writer 

As he studies in the college classroom during the day, he turns into a major-label artist by night. His name is Mike Posner and he’s not your ordinary new­comer to the music scene. 
Mike Posner has mastered the ultimate balancing act as he shows up for classes and gets signed with J Records (RCA/Sony) for his first album release. Mike Posner remains a full time senior at Duke University as he records new songs for his first album release. So far, 2010 has been a great year for this young artist who hopes to graduate from Duke with a major in sociology, minor in busi­ness and is releasing his album by the end of the year. 
After Posner was signed to a record company he thought about dropping out of school so he could focus all his energy on his music. To make his mother happy has taken Posner under its wing and now his songs are showing up all over the radio waves and at college parties around the country. 
Posner’s music reflects his experiences as a college student and is easy to listen to whether you are with your buddies or your girlfriend. Two songs that have been leaked onto the Internet and iTunes are “Drug Dealer Girl” and “Smoke N’ Drive.” 
Both songs have a rap, hip-hop feel to them with his voice sounding very simi­lar to auto-tune but his seeing him live reveals his auto-tune free authentic voice and lyrical content that makes him one of a kind. 
He has collaborated with artists like Kid Cudi, Big Sean, Bun B, Eric Holljes and 3OH!3. Posner still works on mix tapes with Don Cannon and DJ Benzi who continue to help him on his debut album which is said to be 50 percent done. Posner’s first mix tape titled “A 
Matter of Time,” was 
released in early 2009. 
Posner’s “Drug Dealer 

he decided to finish out his “After Posner was Girl” music video is enter-senior year. signed to a record taining as he travels 
Posner has opened for around his Duke 
company he thought 
artists like Will.i.am, Akon University campus looking and 50 Cent. He continues about dropping out for his “drug dealer girl.” to travel on the weekends of school so he could His music is unusual, and when he is not hitting the with a style and personal-
focus all his energy 
books in the library. He ity to match he is bound 
on his music. To 

travels to and from L.A. to stay in the musical and New York serving up make his mother game. He’s attracted high-energy performances crowds in the thousands 
happy he decided to 
and radio station inter-whether it’s Governor’s 
finish out his senior 
views, one red-eye flight at Island in New York or just a time. year.“ traveling from campus to 
Posner started writing his own songs when he was 13 years old and continued to write lyrics for other artists as he grew older. He soon decided that the best person to deliver his musical vision was himself, so he set up his own small recording studio in his college dorm. Having his keyboard and microphone ready he began develop­ing mix tapes that he distributed all over Duke University. 
Being a struggling student-musician does have its perks, however. Because Posner was considered a college senior he was able to use the university’s iTunes U which is a feature that allows artists to release their music for free. After he shared his mix tapes online record com­panies started taking notice. J Records campus. He is making his 
first appearance in this year’s Warped Tour where he will be performing in amphitheaters across the country. 
College parties have adopted many of his mix tapes and as people walk party to party the echoing lyrics of an auto-tune­like voice makes people anxious for his upcoming debut album. Posner has made all of his songs that are not showing up on his debut album available for free on his website. Posner rocks a hipster image with confidence and has given the young music industry what it has been looking for. 
Contact Katherine Greenspon at kgreens01@saintmarys.edu 


By JOHN TIERNEY 
Scene Writer 

The Global Water Initiative and student government released the album “Head Above Water” last week to benefit the non-profit group The Water Project. 
The traditional sounds of Thursday night AcoustiCafe are evident in this CD featuring student artists. Most of the tracks are soothingly chill and are music to calm stressed nerves. 
The album invites the listener to remove clutter from their lives, with track titles such as “Free and Clear,” “One Too Many Things,” and “Find Some Peace.” 
Some of the songs, including senior Tristan Hunt’s “Zihuatanejo,” directly relate to the album’s charity mission. The song balances a respect for the escape that the beach town of Zihuatanejo provides with an understanding of the area’s poverty. The song ques­tion, “would you drink from this water?” relates to the mission of The Global Water Initiative, and will remind listeners that approximately one billion peo­ple lack access to potable water. 
The city that lends its name to the song is the third most visited beach town in Mexico. Hunt’s chill, acoustic style evokes memories of warmth, relaxation and a summer by the sea. 
Daniel Tostado’s “I Have a Pet Oyster and His Name is the World” is a seemingly upbeat song that also has a deeper message. Tostado brings a light tone to the music and the listener can hear that he had fun recording the track. Lines such as “now he likes sports and beer, and I like sports, but I don’t like beer,” are defined by their silliness. But these silly lines are balanced by more metaphysical concerns that “things aren’t good with me and my oyster.” Tostado sings the song in an upbeat and lighthearted way that emphasizes its silliness, but he changes his style often enough for the listener to notice the song’s metaphors. 
Followers of student government might be eager to listen to study body vice president Cynthia Weber’s “If You Go.” Weber, a junior, told The Observer that she decided not to run for student body president this year in part to devote more time to music. 
“If You Go” is one of the more interesting songs on the album. What Weber might lack in experience, she makes up for with passion. The track opens with a compelling half-minute guitar solo before Weber begins to sing. Her voice reveals her relative lack of experience compared to some of the other artists on the album, but she sings with honesty and passion. 
Katharine Feeley’s “Walk Alone” was one of the more professional sounding tracks on the album. Feeley, a senior with experience performing in musi­cals with PEMCo., sings with a fuller voice than found elsewhere on the album. Her voice reflects the emo­tional maturity of the song’s lyrics, which tell the story of a woman who was widowed after 51 years of marriage. 
Mike Matheson’s “Take Me Down” is a fitting song for the Valentine’s Day season. The song is a man’s plea to his girlfriend to “take me down to the pier by the shore.” Matheson’s light and vibrant voice fits the excitement of the stage of love during which the lovers want to spend as much time together as possi­ble. 
The album is generally a relaxing listen, perfect for either studying or decompressing. It’s worth the small price of $6 at the LaFortune Box Office and online at the ND Shop Web site. Proceeds from the CD benefit The Global Water Initiative and The Water Project, which support development of clean water resources for the nearly one billion people who cur­rently do not have access to potable water. 
Contact John Tierney at jtierne1@nd.edu 
Observer Graphic I BLAIR CHEMIDLIN 
page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 9, 2009 
ND CLUB SPORTS 

Men’s Ultimate enjoys three-win weekend 
Special to The Observer 
Men’s Ultimate 
Notre Dame’s Ultimate men’s squad traveled out west to compete in its first spring tour­nament over the weekend, at Las Vegas’ “Trouble in Vegas.” The Irish finished 3-0, defeat­ing rival USC 13-0, Connecticut 13-12, and Whitworth 13-4 Friday. 
Although victorious, the offense never seemed to click, forcing many needless turnovers. 
Due to heavy rains, the sec­ond and third days of the tour­nament were canceled. The Irish had been scheduled to play Harvard, Arkansas and several other good teams on Saturday and Sunday. 
Women’s Ultimate 
The Ultimate club’s women’s “A” team traveled to its first tournament of the spring semester this weekend in Las Vegas. The Irish shut out both Utah and California State San Marcos 13-0 Friday, followed by a 13-9 victory over Whitman. The final two days of the tournament were canceled due to heavy rains. 

Senior captain Katie Morin demonstrated strong leader­ship and equally strong deep cuts, while senior Jenna Adsit played tough defense and jun­ior Kim Schlesinger consistent­ly made good break cuts. 
Additionally, freshmen Kelly Taylor, Kelsey Taylor, and Allie Hawkins and junior Rachel Newkirk proved to be excellent recruits during their first tour­nament as official members of the “A” team. 
After their opening tourna­ment was cut short, the Irish will look to get some more playing time in at a tourna­ment this weekend in Baton Rouge, La. 
Women’s Ice Hockey 

The Women’s Ice Hockey Club was back on the rink this weekend, dropping two games to the X-factor. The Irish lost a 2-1 scrimmage Saturday. Sophomore goalie Elissa Cmunt came up strong, stop­ping 19 of 21 X-factor shots. Cmunt kept the Irish in the game defensively, and Notre Dame fought hard at the other end of the ice, taking 25 shots throughout the game. 
The X-factor was first to score, but Notre Dame junior Karen Riedl answered with a goal in the first period. The scrimmage remained tied until the final minutes of the third period when X-factor standout Hache scored the game win­ner. 
Notre Dame dropped a 6-1 game the X-factor Sunday morning. The Irish could not shut down Hache, who racked up three beautiful assists and a goal. The X-factor’s Dahlbesa, a young, fast player, scored two goals off crisp passes from Hache. With her first goal of the season, freshman Caitlin Ryan finally put the Irish on the scoreboard late in the third period. 
The squad will return to the ice in South Bend next week­end, hosting Illinois Saturday at 9 p.m. at the South Bend Ice Box and again Sunday at 10 
a.m. at the Joyce Center Ice Arena. 
Figure Skating 

After a tough start to the season, Notre Dame reclaimed its position as a top collegiate figure skating program with a third place finish at the Midwestern Synchronized Skating Championships. 
In a competitive field of 11 teams, the Irish skated their best and cleanest program of the year, jumping three places in standings from the previous competition just a week before. 
Skating to a “Jailbird”­themed medley, the ladies daz­zled both the judges and the audience in their electric orange costumes, managing to edge out Minnesota and Central Michigan, their main rivals. After claiming the bronze medal, the Irish are hoping for an even higher fin­ish at the upcoming Tri-State Championships. 
Men’s Volleyball 

The men’s volleyball club won four of six matches in MIVA competition this week­end. The Midwest Intercollegiate Volleyball Association is the strongest conference in the country, last year boasting three of the top four ranked teams and nine of the top 25. 
The Irish opened play defeat­ing UW-Milwaukee, 25-14, 25­13 and Illinois State, 23-25, 25-21, 15-13. The squad dropped the next two contests to Marquette, 25-14, 25-16, and to UW–Oshkosh, 25-21, 25-23. 
Behind the key play of fresh­man Rob Bauer, senior Mike Nejedly and sophomore Josh Rehberg, the Irish rebounded to sweep the final two matches over Northern Illinois, 25-20, 35-33 and Iowa State, 25-16, 25-22. 
NHL 

Gainey hands over Canadiens GM position to Gauthier 
Gainey starred for the early. I’ve done my best. Now included personal tragedy. His eral manager’s duties following 
Associated Press 

Canadiens from 1973-89 and it’s time for me to pass the daughter, Laura, was lost at the 2005-06 season. 
MONTREAL — From his time the Hall of Famer rejoined the torch.” sea in December 2006. That Gauthier expressed his grati­as captain to his tenure as gen-team as GM after the 2002-The Canadiens, who cele-came 11 years after his wife, tude to Gainey, whom he eral manager, Bob Gainey has 2003 season. Montreal made brated their 100th anniversary Cathy, died of cancer. described as “a great friend,” spent a lifetime providing lead-the playoffs four out of five on Dec. 4, had missed the play-A Montreal native, Gauthier for bringing him to Montreal ership for the Montreal seasons during Gainey’s offs for the fourth time in five was Anaheim’s GM from 1998-and agreeing to advise him in Canadiens. tenure. years when Gainey was hired, 2002. Before that, he served in his new duties. 
Now, he’s handing the reins “I think that is an accom-including three straight sea-the same capacity with Ottawa “I’ve enjoyed working with to a trusted colleague. plishment in today’s NHL, sons from 1998-99 to 2000-01, from 1995-98. him and learned so much from 
Gainey stepped aside Monday where 45 percent of the teams matching the worst drought in “It’s a great honor to be him,” Gauthier said. as Montreal’s miss the playoffs team history. named general Gauthier said general manag-every year,” said Montreal went 241-176-46-7 manager of the the Canadiens’ er and was Gainey, who won in the regular season during M o n t r e a l primary objec­replaced by “I’m leaving the team five Stanley Gainey’s tenure, including a C a n a d i e n s , ” tive is to win the assistant Pierre Cups as a for-28-26-6 mark this season. The Gauthier said. “I’m ready to roll up Stanley Cup, 
I love most in the
Gauthier in a ward with the Canadiens finished first overall “I’ve always my sleeves and get and his priority surprising front-hands of the man I Canadiens. in the Eastern Conference two thought that is to move the 
the job done.” 
office shake-up trust most.” Boivin said years ago, the team’s first reg-working in the team from the for hockey’s Gainey informed ular-season conference title National Hockey middle of the most storied him during the since 1988-89 — Gainey’s final League is an Pierre Gauthier pack into the 
Bob Gainey 
franchise. Christmas holi-season on the ice. honor. Working Canadiens GM top tier of the 
Team presi-former Canadiens GM days that he But the Canadiens haven’t as a general league. dent Pierre would not seek advanced beyond the second manager is also “I like this Boivin — with to extend his round of the playoffs since win-a great honor. team,” said Gainey and contract after it ning their 24th Stanley Cup in But working for Gauthier, who Gauthier on either side of him expired in June. 1993. the Montreal Canadiens as a hired current Canadiens coach 
— made the announcement at “I believe that the GM posi-“It’s been a privilege to par-general manager is the great-Jacques Martin in the same a Bell Centre news conference. tion requires a long-term ticipate with the Montreal est honor.” capacity with the Senators in Gainey will remain with the vision and a long-term commit-Canadiens’ organization again Gainey, who won a champi-1996. “I like the coaching staff. club as a special adviser to ment,” Gainey said. “At this in a different role,” said onship as general manager of I’ve worked with Jacques Gauthier, an assistant to the point I’m not prepared to make Gainey, the team’s captain the Dallas Stars in 1999, hired before. I’m very comfortable general manager under Gainey. a commitment of four, or five, from 1981-89. “Spectacular Gauthier as the Canadiens’ with this group and I’ve had a 
“I look forward to assisting or six more years in this posi-evenings at the Bell Centre director of professional scout-lot of time in the organization Pierre and the team in our pur-tion. The decision between with jersey retirements, includ-ing in 2003. Gauthier, who and we have a very strong suit of our 25th Stanley Cup,” leaving a little too early or ing my own. It’s been fabulous served with Gainey and Bobby organization. As soon as we Gainey said. “I’m leaving the staying a little too long — and I’m very thankful for the Clarke as co-general managers leave this room today, I’m team I love most in the hands between those two choices I opportunity.” of Canada’s 1998 Olympic ready to roll up my sleeves and of the man I trust most.” prefer to leave a little bit too Gainey’s tenure, however, team, added the assistant gen-get the job done.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
gradrentals.viewwork.com ——————————————— UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Hail, infernal world! and thou, pro-Here at least Waiting for the ambulance to come, not go it alone. Notre Dame has foundest Hell, We shall be free; th' Almighty hath hoping that it doesn't come too late.
FOR SALE FOR RENT many resources in place to assist Receive thy new possessor, one not built Hearing the sirens in the distance, you. If you or someone you love who brings Here for his envy, will not drive us “Hold on, help is on the way.” needs confidential support or assis-A mind not to be changed by place hence: Mr. Ambulance Driver, 
Four condos for sale under tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at or time. Here we may reign secure; and, in I'm right here beside her. 
$150,000. Steps to Notre Dame. 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For The mind is its own place, and in my choice, Though I'll live, somehow I've found, 
http://realst8.com/4-condos or call more information, visit ND's web itself To reign is worth ambition, though in Mr. Ambulance Driver, 
574-217-4770 site: http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu Can make a Heaven of Hell, a Hell Hell: I'm not a real survivor, 
PERSONAL 
——————————————— ——————————————— of Heaven. Better to reign in Hell than serve in Wishing that I was the one that was-COONHOUND MIX: Free to good What matter where, if I be still the Heaven n't gonna be here anymore. home. 8mths, neutured, trained, all If you or someone you care about Farewell, happy fields, same, shots. Healthy, intelligent, energetic. has been sexually assaulted, we Where joy for ever dwells! Hail, hor-And what I should be, all but less Needs dedicated owner. (574)234-can help. For more information, visit rors! than he 5707 Notre Dame's site: http.csap.nd.edu Whom thunder hath made greater? ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 


Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Tuesday, February 9, 2010 
page 15 

NCAA Men’s Basketball Division I AP Poll 
team previous 
1 Kansas 1 2 Syracuse 3 3 Kentucky 4 4 Villanova 2 5 West Virginia 6 6 Purdue 8 7 Georgetown 7 8 Duke 10 9 Kansas State 10 10 Michigan State 5 11 Wisconsin 16 12 Tennessee 14 13 Ohio State 13 14 Texas 9 15 New Mexico 15 16 Gonzaga 17 17 BYU 12 18 Butler 23 19 Northern Iowa 24 20 Georgia Tech 21 21 Temple 19 22 Vanderbilt 18 23 UNLV NR 24 Baylor 20 25 Pittsburgh 22 
NCAA Women’s Basketball Division I AP Poll 
team  previous  
1  Connecticut  1  
2  Stanford  2  
3  Nebraska  4  
4  NOTRE DAME  3  
5  Tennessee  5  
6  Xavier  7  
7  Ohio State  8  
8  Duke  6  
9  West Virginia  11  
10  Florida State  15  
11  Baylor  15  
12  Oklahoma  13  
13  Texas A&M  12  
14  Texas  17  
15  Oklahoma State  10  
16  Georgetown  18  
17  Kentucky  20  
18  North Carolina  9  
19  Georgia  14  
20  Iowa State  22  
21  Georgia Tech  21  
22  Gonzaga  24  
23  LSU  19  
24  TCU  NR  
25  St. John’s (N.Y.)  25  



around the dial 
NHL 

Red Wings at Blues 8 p.m., Versus 
Men’s NCAA Basketball 
Purdue at Michigan State 9 p.m., ESPN 
NASCAR 

Patrick to make debut in Daytona 
Associated Press 

DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. — Danica Patrick will make her NASCAR debut this weekend at Daytona International Speedway. 
The IndyCar star will drive the No. 7 Chevrolet for JR Motorsports in Saturday’s second-tier Nationwide Series race. 
The decision announced Monday to race at Daytona was made after team offi­cials dissected her stock-car racing debut in the ARCA race at Daytona on Saturday. The team had left the option to race up to Patrick, who wanted to assess her first race before deciding whether to enter one of the most prestigious Nationwide races of the season. 
Patrick overcame a midrace spin to finish sixth. 
“Racing in the Nationwide Series race was my goal during this entire two-month preparation process, but we wanted to make sure it was the right thing to do,” Patrick said in a statement. “The ARCA race was a blast, and I’m not ready for my first Daytona Speedweeks to end just yet. I want more racing.” 
Patrick had been hesitant to make her debut at Daytona because of the top talent that race attracts. Sprint Cup drivers have won nine of the last 10 Nationwide races here, and the lone exception was Martin Truex Jr., who won in 2005 in JR Motorsports car. 
Patrick will be joined in the field by Dale Earnhardt Jr., her car owner. He has five wins and 10 top-10 fin­ishes in 17 Nationwide races at Daytona. 
Earnhardt will be driving JRM’s flagship No. 88, while Patrick will be in the car she will drive in 13 pre­viously announced races. Her schedule after Daytona includes the Feb. 20 race at California and the Feb. 27 race at Las Vegas. 
“I think Danica proved to everyone that she can com­pete in stock cars at a high level, and right now seat time is extremely impor­tant,” said Kelley Earnhardt, Earnhardt’s sis­ter and the general manag­
er  and  a  part  owner  of  
JRM.  
“She  has  worked  

extremely hard during the past two months for this opportunity. Her dedication and work ethic is infec­tious.” 
JR Motorsports acquired the points from CJM Racing to ensure Patrick a spot in the field. CJM Racing fin­ished 15th in the owner standings last season, but has suspended operations. 
There’s been slight back­lash against Patrick for tak­ing the Daytona ride because many believed her decision to race cost Kelly Bires a seat. 
IN BRIEF 

Stallworth released following suspension 
CLEVELAND — Donte’ Stallworth will get the chance to resurrect his NFL career, but it won’t happen in Cleveland. 
The Browns released the troubled wide receiver on Monday, wasting little time after NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said Friday that Stallworth would be reinstated fol­lowing the Super Bowl. 
Stallworth was suspended for the 2009 season by Goodell after he pleaded guilty to killing a pedestri­an while driving drunk in Florida. He spent 24 days in jail. 
“I think he’s in a better place than he was,” Goodell said on Friday, adding that he met with Stallworth about a month ago. “I think he recognizes what he did and the horrific nature and the unfortunate outcome, and I think he’s prepared himself to get back in and play.” 
Mets hire Bob Melvin as professional scout 
NEW YORK — Former major league manager Bob Melvin has been hired as a professional scout by the New York Mets, who also brought back Mookie Wilson as their minor league outfield and base running coordinator. 
Melvin was the NL Manager of the Year in 2007 with Arizona. He man­aged the Seattle Mariners from 2003­04 and then the Diamondbacks from 2005 until he was fired last May 8 and replaced by A.J. Hinch. 
Wilson, a member of the Mets’ 1986 World Series championship team, was their first base coach from 1997-02 and a minor league manager for New York at Kingsport (2003-04) and Brooklyn (2005). 
Guy Conti was replaced as rehabili­tation pitching coordinator by Frank Fultz, and Conti becomes a senior adviser in the minor league depart­ment. Fultz was pitching coach for the Gulf Coast Mets last year. 
White Sox unretire number for Vizquel 
CHICAGO — Omar Vizquel will wear the No. 11 of former White Sox shortstop and fellow Venezuelan Luis Aparicio this sea­son. 
The White Sox say they have unretired Aparicio’s No. 11 for the 2010 season, with his blessing. Aparicio said Vizquel is the one player he’d like to see don his number. 
The 42-year-old Vizquel signed with the White Sox this offseason. He is a three-time AL All-Star and is considered one of best fielding shortstops of all time. 
Aparicio was named American League Rookie of the Year as a member of the White Sox in 1956 and the 10-time All-Star played 10 seasons with Chicago. He was elected to the Hall of Fame in 1984, the same year the team retired his uniform number. 
page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, February 9, 2009 
NFL 

Colts ponder offseason options after SB loss 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — Reggie Wayne stared right through all those reporters. 
He wasn’t bothered by the questions Sunday night. He just couldn’t believe he and the Colts lost to his hometown New Orleans Saints in the Super Bowl. 
Moments after Indianapolis came up one win short of a championship, the Pro Bowl receiver downplayed the disap­pointment by focusing on next season. 
“I’d rather win than lose, but I think once we get this feeling out of the way, we’ll be deter-undoubtedly help the Colts, who started the season as the fifth-youngest team in average NFL experience (3.89 years). 

The new rules also will pre­vent the Colts from making any splashy moves in free agency unless they lose a player. No big deal for a team that prefers to build through the draft anyway. 
Jim Caldwell will enter his second season as head coach and he already has successors in place for retiring offensive line coach Howard Mudd, and offensive coordinator Tom Moore and team president Bill Polian if they decide to leave. 
Indianapolis does have one 
big move to 
make — re-sign­
mined to come ing Manning, 
“We played well in 
back and get whose contract 
our first playoff
another shot at expires after it,” Wayne said. game, played well next season. 
Who could But he’s not 
two weeks ago and,
blame him for going anywhere. 
at times, made some
being upset? Team owner Jim He’ll hear about plays against the Irsay is pre­this loss for pared to make 
Saints. We just didn’t 
years. Manning the 
play well enough to
It won’t be any highest -paid easier for other win.” quarterback in Colts, who will league history constantly be again.
Peyton Manning 
reminded of “We’d like to 
Colts quarterback 
blowing a 10-get something 
point lead in the Super Bowl and failing to live up to expectations following a near-perfect regular season. 
“I felt like we played well this postseason,” Peyton Manning said. “We played well in our first playoff game, played well two weeks ago and, at times, made some plays against the Saints. We just didn’t play well enough to win.” 
The Colts compiled several impressive accomplishments this season: 
They broke the NFL record for consecutive regular-season wins (23). 
They set the league mark for wins in a decade (115). 
They extended their own NFL mark of consecutive 12-win seasons to seven. 
They completed seven fourth-quarter comebacks, also a league record. 
Manning won his fourth MVP award, breaking a tie with Brett Favre for the most ever. 
But they could have done so much more. 
Late in December, the Colts were 14-0 and had a shot to join the 2007 New England Patriots as the only teams to go 16-0 in a regular season. But Indianapolis traded that chance for an opportunity to rest its starters down the stretch, figur­ing that was the best way to chase a second Super Bowl title in four years. 
The Colts finished 14-2 in the regular season and 16-3 over­all. Their 31-17 loss on Sunday to underdog New Orleans left both quests unfulfilled. 
“I lost my last college game, too, and you never want to dwell on it,” receiver Pierre Garcon said. “But it happens. You take it and use it as motiva­tion to come back again next year.” 
Indy should look awfully familiar. 
The likelihood of an uncapped season means players with less than six years’ experience can­not become unrestricted free agents. The new rule will done, sooner 

than later,” Irsay said. “So once the season ends, we’re going to be talking about that and hopefully getting something done before next season begins. It’s something that’s going to get done, so hon­estly, those aren’t the ones you worry about.” 
The lack of movement and return of several injured play­ers should make the Colts even stronger in 2010. 
Former first-round pick Anthony Gonzalez was expected to have his breakout season after wide receiver Marvin Harrison was released in February. Gonzalez never got the chance, sustaining a knee injury in the first quarter of the season opener. That opened the door for Garcon, in his second season, and rookie Austin Collie, who both had big sea­sons. 
With all three expected back next season, along with Pro Bowlers Wayne and tight end Dallas Clark, Manning could have his deepest and most experienced group of receivers since arriving in Indy in 1998. 
Also expected back is 2007 NFL defensive player of the year Bob Sanders, who missed 17 of Indy’s 19 games this sea­son with a knee injury and torn biceps. Polian has repeatedly said Sanders will be healthy for training camp. 
And the Colts think corner­back Marlin Jackson, their 2005 first-round pick, will return after tearing an ACL for the second straight season. In 2008, it was the right knee. This season, it was his left. 
Even without those three players, the Colts still managed to reach the Super Bowl and come within 15 minutes of win­ning it. So they’ll spend the off­season figuring out what it will take to get back to football’s biggest game — and close it out. 
“We’re going to take our dis­appointment and let it fuel us a bit,” Caldwell said. “We’ll see what 2010 brings us.” 
MLB 

Twins hope to keep Mauer 
Associated Press 

MINNEAPOLIS — The Minnesota Twins have been spending their way out of that small -budget image, mirroring the imminent increase in revenue from their new ballpark with a big spike in player salary commitments. 
Lead owner Jim Pohlad said it’s a sustainable devel­
opment. So even if the Twins sign Joe Mauer to a mammoth contract exten­sion, they’re not afraid it would cost too much to keep a contending-caliber core of players around the American League MVP. 
“I think Target Field puts us in better position to make sure that we have a competitive team from year to year, ” Pohlad said Monday. “Names will come and names will go, but over­all the objective is always to have the best team on the field.” 
The Pohlad family has consistently followed a model of keeping the annual player payroll pegged to 50 percent of team revenue, though in rebuilding years it’s fallen well below that. At the Metrodome, there wasn’t as much money com­ing in. This year, though, the payroll will rise by roughly $30 million to a team record above $95 mil­lion. 
“All new ballparks have their peaks, and I’m sure the initial years will be very good to the Twins,” Pohlad said. “Then it’ll be up to us to sustain it after that, but the ballpark itself I think can sustain it for a long time.” 
In a question-and-answer session with reporters in a conference room overlook­ing a snow-covered Target Field, Pohlad dismissed the notion that the team has been trying to disprove a tightfisted reputation. 
“We’re not trying to show people,” he said. “We’re try­ing to do what we said we’re going to do.” 
Pohlad declined to discuss specifics about negotiations with Mauer on a new deal, citing a pledge to the catch­er and his agent to keep the details private. He said he’s “absolutely not active at all” in the process, but reiterat­ed the team’s desire to keep the homegrown star around for good. 
Pohlad said the Twins aren’t interested in the pos­sibility of deferred compen­sation as a way to make a rich long-term contract like Mauer’s work. 
“They make you feel real good at the time, and then later on you wish you hadn’t done that,” Pohlad said. 
He also indicated an open­ness to signing Mauer for nine or 10 years, if that’s what it would take. First baseman Justin Morneau’s six-year contract signed two years ago is the current Twins record. 
“I don ’t think six is a magic number,” Pohlad said, adding: “Total value is what drives it. We do not have a term policy.” 
Since last August, the Twins have added multimil­lion -dollar players in Orlando Hudson, Jim Thome, J.J. Hardy, Carl Pavano and Jon Rauch. Fans, though, should not expect a spree like that every year. 
“We’re not going to spend the money just to spend the money, ” Pohlad said, adding: “We’re going to try to put the best team on the field in the most prudent financial way, and I think we accomplished that this year.” 
Asked about general man­ager Bill Smith’s praise last year for the ownership ’s approval of the late-season acquisitions, Pohlad quipped: “I think it was time for his review.” 
Pohlad also reiterated the family’s philosophy of trust­ing the front office to take care of the roster and not meddling or micromanaging in the day-to-day operations 
of the organization. The family has a small empire of business interests, and the Twins take up between 20 percent and 30 percent of Pohlad’s time. 
They’re fired up about this year’s team, though, as they always are. 
“We may be characterized as a relatively disengaged ownership group, but we do care about winning and los­ing,” Pohlad said. “There may be one or two down years, but even during those years we’re going to care and we’re going to want to do better. I’ve said this a million times and my broth­ers are the same. We ’re fans.” 

Tuesday, February 9, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
NFL 

Super Bowl garners highest TV ratings ever 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK —The New Orleans Saints’ victory over Indianapolis in the Super Bowl was watched by more than 106 million people, sur­passing the 1983 finale of “M-A-S-H” to become the most -watched program in 
U.S. television history, the Nielsen Co. said Monday. 
Compelling story lines involving the city of New Orleans and its ongoing recovery from Hurricane Katrina and the attempt at a second Super Bowl ring for Indianapolis quarterback Peyton Manning propelled the viewership. Football rat­ings have been strong all sea­son. 
“It was one of those magi­cal moments that you don’t 
often see in sports,” said Sean McManus, president of CBS News and Sports. 
Nielsen estimated Monday that 106.5 million people by more people. There’s a Bowl. The good ratings for watched Sunday’s Super margin for error in such the game and football in gen-Bowl. The “M-A-S-H” record numbers, and Nielsen ’s eral also set CBS and other was 105.97 million. Monday estimate was prelim-football broadcasters up well 

The viewership estimate inary, and could change with when selling advertising for obliterated the a more thor -next season, he said. previous record ough look at The Nielsen estimate also viewership for data due drew some congratulations a Super Bowl — “For anyone who Tuesday. from Alan Alda, the star of last year ’s wants to write that “It ’s signifi -“M-A-S-H,” and the slugger game between cant for all of whose record was beaten. 
broadcasting is dead,
Arizona and the members of “If the `M-A-S-H’ audience 
106 million people
P i t t s b u r g h . the broadcast-was eclipsed, it was probably That game was watched this ing communi -due in large part to the fact seen by 98.7 ty,” said Leslie that the whole country is 
program. You can’t 
million people, Moonves, CBS rooting for New Orleans to 
find that anywhere
Nielsen said. Corp. CEO. “For triumph in every way possi-
The “M-A-S-else.” anyone who ble,” Alda said. “I am, too, H” record has wants to write and I couldn’t be happier for proven as that broadcast-them. I love that city.” 
Leslie Moonves 
durable and ing is dead, 106 There are more American 
CBS Corp. CEO 
meaningful in million people homes with television sets television as watched this now (114.9 million) than Babe Ruth ’s program. You there were in 1983 (83.3 mil-record of 714 home runs was can ’t find that anywhere lion). An estimated 77 per-in baseball until topped by else.” cent of homes with TVs on Hank Aaron. Ultimately, it Moonves predicted CBS will were watching “M-A-S-H” in may be hard to tell which earn more in advertising rev-1983, compared with the program was really watched enue than in any other Super audience share of 68 for the Super Bowl. 

Nielsen also measures only the United States, and it’s possible some World Cup soc­cer games were seen more worldwide. Accurate meas­urement of television audi­ences outside the United States is spotty at best. 
Alda also wondered whether the numbers were too close to declare a new champion. He thinks Nielsen didn’t take into account large numbers of people watching “M-A-S-H” communally, which is often the case for football games, too. 
“Not to say I’m competitive, but in part we are talking about sports,” he said. “And I actually AM competitive.” 
McManus didn ’t want to jinx it, but the abnormally strong viewership for football this year left him hoping for a record. The NFC and AFC championship games both had their biggest audiences since the 1980s. The growth of high-definition television and its appeal to sports fans has also helped. 
A competitive game until the final minutes sealed it. McManus acknowledged some nervousness when Indianapolis jumped out to a 10-0 lead — a Super Bowl rout often makes people turn away from the game — but New Orleans roared back. 
The Mid-Atlantic blizzard also helped CBS. After New Orleans, the highest-rated market was snowbound Washington, Nielsen said. More people watched the game from their homes in that area instead of going to parties or bars, and Nielsen does a much better job count­ing viewers in homes than outside of them. 
“Bad weather in the Northeast and good weather in Florida was a good combi­nation for us, ” McManus said. 
The Super Bowl also proved a strong launching pad for the new CBS series “Undercover Boss” that pre­miered after the game. An estimated 38.6 million people watched the first edition of a series about corporate hon­chos working secretly as low-level employees in their own companies, Nielsen said. That’s third only to a 1996 “Friends” and 2001 “Survivor ” as the most ­watched program after the Super Bowl. 
Meanwhile, Dorito’s was a big winner in a measurement of interest in the commercials played during the Super Bowl. TiVo Inc. said the snack company’s ad featuring a boy telling a man to keep his hands off his chips and his mom was stopped and played back in 15 percent of homes with the digital video recorder. 
The secretly filmed CBS promo with David Letterman, Jay Leno and Oprah Winfrey came in second, followed by the Snicker’s ad with Betty White and Abe Vigoda flat­tened in a football game. 
In general, however, TiVo found less interest in the commercials than it has in previous years, judged by how many people paused live action to see them, said Todd Juenger, general manager of TiVo’s research department. 
page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, February 9, 2010 
NFL 

Saints, New Orleans bask in Super Bowl glory 
Associated Press 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. — Clearly exhausted from a late night of post-Super Bowl cele­brations, Sean Payton leaned on a podium Monday morning, clutching the Vince Lombardi trophy in his right hand. 
“You can’t get enough of this,” the Saints’ head coach said at a news conference at the Fort Lauderdale convention center. “This thing lay in my bed next to me last night, rolled over it a couple times. I proba­bly drooled on it. But man, there’s nothing like it.” 
Certainly, the New Orleans Saints never experienced any­thing like it. 
Before this one, the Saints had only eight winning seasons — and two playoff victories — in their previous 42 years com­bined. New Orleans had to win three postseason games over three great quarterbacks — Kurt Warner, Brett Favre and Peyton Manning — to win the title this season. 
The last quarterback stand­ing was Drew Brees, who joined Payton in 2006 with the idea of transforming the Saints into champions for a region needing widespread rebuilding after the devastation of Hurricane Katrina in August 2005. 
That was easier said than done, but in their fourth season together, they did it. Brees was chosen the Super Bowl MVP after Sunday night’s 31-17 vic­tory over the Indianapolis Colts. After that, his only remaining challenge was believing he’d actually pulled it off. 

“I had to wake up this morn­ing and turn to my wife and say, ‘Did yesterday really hap­pen?’” Brees said. 
“Our victory last night was the culmination of four years of hard work, fighting through a lot of adversity, ups and downs and more importantly than that, representing a city that has been through so much,” Brees said. 
“Along the way, people have asked me so many times, ‘Do you look at it as a burden or extra pressure? Do you feel like you’re carrying the weight of the city on your teams’ shoul­ders.’ I said, ‘No, not at all. We look at it as a responsibility.’ Our city, our fans, gave us strength and we owe this to them. ... There’s no people that you would want to win for more than the city of New Orleans.” 
As Brees spoke, Payton sat off to the side, elbows on knees, face buried in his hands. When it was his turn to speak, he recounted Vince Lombardi’s grandson, Saints assistant Joe Lombardi, posing for a photo with the sterling silver hard­ware bearing his last name. 
“Joe Lombardi, his father, Vince Jr., and his two brothers sat and posed with this trophy, the four of them, while pictures were taken. And I just thought to myself, ‘You’ve got to be kid­ding me,’” Payton said. “If you believe in heaven, and you believe Vince Lombardi is there looking down on his grandson, it doesn’t get any better.” 
Payton said when all was quiet in the team hotel around 3 a.m., he offered a prayer of thanks for his team and his experience in New Orleans, where he became a head coach for the first time in 2006. The city was still largely in ruin then. 
“When we got into coaching or playing, we got into it for certain reasons and yet the reasons in New Orleans far exceeded what we ever expect­ed,” Payton said. 
The theme for the Saints in 2009 became: A season of firsts. They opened with their first 13-game winning streak, which earned them a first No. 1 seeding in the NFC playoffs. That led to a first home NFC title game, then a first Super Bowl. 
Their run to the Super Bowl captured the attention of foot­ball fans everywhere. The game was watched by more than 106 million people, sur­passing the 1983 finale of “M­A-S-H” to become the most-watched program in U.S. televi­sion history, the Nielsen Co. said Monday. 
Commissioner Roger Goodell called this Super Bowl “clearly more than a game. 
“I keep thinking of the word ‘magical,’” he said. “When you think about the relationship between the Saints and the Gulf Coast and the city of New Orleans, it was more than just a football game and more than just a football team. The hopes, the dreams and the struggles of that community were all reflected in that football team. It was a great night for the peo­ple in New Orleans and the Gulf Coast region.” 
Throughout the past week, Brees used the Super Bowl as a platform to promote New Orleans’ recovery and express his adoration for the distinctive and historic city. After the Saints’ Super Bowl triumph, Brees agreed to appear on the Late Show with David Letterman on Monday night. 

“We’re going to enjoy this for a while. I think New Orleans is enjoying it right this second, still,” Brees said. “We don’t expect anybody to go to work today in New Orleans, or maybe for the next two weeks considering Mardi Gras is next week. 
“We know what it’s like to build something from the ground up and just to feel like this is our time. ... I think what’s going to be fun is using the term ‘repeat’ all next year.” 

Tuesday, February 9, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
NFL 

Who happy with show 
Associated Press 
MIAMI GARDENS, Fla. — Pete Townshend is used to playing in front of stadiums filled with rabid fans who know every note of The Who’s songs. He didn’t get that at the band’s Super Bowl halftime performance, but he’s OK with that too. 
Townshend and bandmate Roger Daltrey performed a med­ley of some of their most famous songs on entertainment’s biggest stage Sunday, including “Won’t Get Fooled Again” during a 12­minute set that included a laser-lit stage and plenty of fireworks. 
While the crowd was involved, and some held up their cell phones to illuminate the night as instructed by the stadium announcers, they were some­what subdued, and was clear it was not a Who event. 
Backstage after their show, Townshend laughed and said: “You know, you could kind of tell from the stage the crowd is really here for the game.” 
“It was nice for that reason. It was nice to feel a part of some­thing and not having it all to be about us,” he added. When it was mentioned that most rock stars want everything to revolve around them, he joked and said: “We’re too far gone to care I think.” 
It was the first football game Townshend and Daltrey, both Brits, ever saw (Daltrey went after his performance to watch the game, which the New Orleans Saints won over the Indianapolis Colts, 31-17). Townshend said he was awed by the spectacle, and the sheer work of putting together the event. 
“It’s extraordinary,” said Townshend. “You forget how big sport is and how every week it happens ... I’m not trying to be humble but we felt like a very small piece of a huge team.” 
The Super Bowl also saw the debut of a new remix of “My Generation” by will.i.am and Slash. It is available for sale on Amazon.com, will.i.am’s dip-dive.com and the Who’s Web site, and proceeds will go to aid Haiti after the earthquake there. 
Townshend said he was impressed with the remix: “It’s 
OLYMPICS 

Vancouver hoping to have venues ready 

actually very elegant, it’s not gangsta,” he said of will.i.am’s rap on the song. 
Townshend called his entire Super Bowl experience a success, despite protests by some chil­dren’s rights advocates about his presence in the Super Bowl. 
Townshend was arrested in 2003 in Britain as part of a child pornography sting but later cleared. He accessed a Web site containing child pornography but said it was for research for his own campaign against child porn. He was required to register as a sex offender, despite being cleared. Townshend said he has been a children’s advocate for years and was abused himself as a child. 
Associated Press 

VANCOUVER, British Columbia — If the United States Olympic moguls team is worried about the conditions at Cypress Mountain, it does­n’t show. 
Trucks and helicopters were still dumping snow onto Cypress Mountain on Monday in an effort to get the Olympic venues ready for the Vancouver Games, which open Friday. 
The first event scheduled is women’s moguls qualifying on Saturday, with the finals to be raced later that day. 
“I’ve skied on rocks, I’ve skied on ice, I’ve skied in the rain. This is nothing,” World Cup champion Hannah Kearney said Monday ahead of her first pre-Olympic prac­tice run. “It’s unfortunate for the beauty of the surrounding mountains … but I don’t think it is going to be a problem for us skiing.” 
Only athletes and their coaches were allowed at training on Monday after ­noon, when they were to get their first look at the condi­tions. 
“For safety reasons and our desire not to have any of the course preparation work impacted, we decided just to let on the people that are absolutely necessary for the training,” said Dave Cobb, the executive vice president of the Vancouver organizing com­mittee. 
The weather in and around Vancouver has created some problems for Olympic organ­izers. Although the venues at Whistler—where the Alpine and Nordic events will be held—are fine, the Cypress Mountain venues closer to the city have been affected by the unseasonably warm weather. 
“There’s still a lot of snow being trucked and flown in to ensure we have enough con­tingency snow if the warm weather continues,” Cobb said. “There’s a lot of activity going on.” 
IOC president Jacques Rogge said he had “absolutely no concerns whatsoever” about the state of Cypress Mountain. 
“There is no concern, and there is no Plan B,” he said. 
World champion Patrick Deneen was confident events would go ahead on Cypress Mountain. The men’s moguls are Sunday. 
“If there’s snow we will ski for sure,” he said. “I’ve seen pictures, and it looks like there’s a lot of snow on that course right now. They’ve been trucking it in and really making it happen.” 
Christian Hrab, director of high -performance for Canada‘s snowboard teams, said the landscape of white ribbons of snow draped over bare hillsides reminded him of Bardonecchia, the similarly bare Alpine resort where the snowboarding events were staged at the 2006 Turin Olympics. 
“It’s kind of odd because outside of the field of play there is no snow, and where there was snow, they took it to bring it to the field of play,” Hrab said. “And then there is this white, glistening paradise where the field of snow is.” 
Hrab said the snowboard-cross track had held up well during testing over the last couple of days, and the half-pipe also looks good. 
“The pipe has perfect walls, they are 22 feet high, the snow is white, and really they are ready,” he said. 
John Furlong, the CEO of VANOC, said the organizing committee briefed the International Olympic Committee on the state of the mountain Saturday. 
The Americans said skiing on courses built on otherwise snow-free slopes was a fact of life on the moguls World Cup circuit. 
“In Italy we were on a dirt hill that was dirt on both sides of us and a run in the middle,” Michelle Roark said. 
In order to get the venues prepared, organizers already have canceled two days of halfpipe training and pushed back parallel giant slalom training by two days. 
Building the halfpipe is organizers’ biggest challenge. Once competition begins, they’ll also need to reconfig­ure the snowboardcross course into a parallel giant slalom course in a limited amount of time. Last year, a PGS event at Whistler was canceled when the course could not be converted in time. 
At the halfpipe, Cobb said organizers were considering using chemicals to harden the snow on the course. The half-pipe competition starts Feb. 17. 
“We’re happy with the state of the other courses,” Cobb said. “On the freestyle course today training starts. We’ll get a sense of how the courses hold up over the next few days.” 
Shannon Bahrke said a bit of warm weather would not put off athletes who have trained for years for a shot at the Olympics. 
“We’ve worked our whole lives for this,” she said. If the conditions are not perfect, “it’s not going to be, ‘Nope, I’m not going to do it.”’ 


page 20 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, February 9, 2010 Tuesday, February 9, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 
NCAA 

Reynolds’ burst carries ‘Nova past Mountaineers 
Pittsburgh uses mid-game surge to remain unbeaten against Robert Morris, ends Colonials fve-game winning streak 
half to beat St. John’s 79-60 on West Virginia did little on offense 
Associated Press 

Saturday. Last season he torched to get going. 
MORGANTOWN, W.Va. — Villanova for a career-high 43 Villanova held West Virginia Scottie Reynolds didn’t have any points at home, but the Wildcats’ under 50 percent shooting from memorable games against West Reggie Redding limited him to 13 the field for the 11th straight Virginia — until he got hot against points on 2-of-12 shooting game. West Virginia was just 7 of the Mountaineers in the second Monday night. 27 from 3-point range and shot half Monday night. “We were really concerned poorly from the free-throw line, 
The senior guard scored 19 of about him,” Villanova coach Jay finishing 18 of 32. 
his 21 points in the final 13 min-Wright said. “In the St. John’s “We really played as a unit utes and No. 4 Villanova held off game they were down the same defensively,” Wright said. “We No. 5 West Virginia 82-75. way and he just got it going and really covered for each other and 
In the season’s first matchup of once he got it going, it was over. played unselfishly. When we had teams ranked in the top five, the Reggie Redding did a really good to switch, we switched. We got Wildcats (21-2, 10-1) rebounded job on him.” down against Georgetown and from a blowout loss at No. 7 Butler didn’t get his first points lost our composure and started Georgetown on Saturday to pull until a 3-pointer with 8:40 left in scrambling. Tonight, we really into a first-place tie with No. 2 the first half and was held without kept good composure defensively.” Syracuse in the Big East. a field goal in the second half. Every time West Virginia was 
“You have guys asking where “We didn’t really compete as poised to make a run, the 6-foot-2 the toughest place to play is, and well as we should’ve, especially Reynolds was there to answer hands down for me, it’s West considering the situation and how against a West Virginia lineup that 
Virginia,” said Reynolds, who had much the game meant for us,” at times averaged 6-7. averaged nine points in three pre-Butler said. “Overall we weren’t “There were times when I was vious games against the focused as far as taking advan-the smallest guy on the floor,” he 
Mountaineers, including two loss-tage of easy shots. It would’ve said. es in Morgantown. been a different situation if we Reynolds didn’t get a specific 
“I remember a lot of years did.” pep talk or instructions from here,” he said. “It feels good to get This was West Virginia’s first Wright about taking over. The one under our belt. It feels good home game since fans threw opportunities just came to him. 
and to do it the way we did it, it objects onto the court last “He wanted everyone to contin­feels even better.” Wednesday, one of which struck ue to be aggressive,” Reynolds Villanova shot 57 percent (29 of Pittsburgh assistant coach Tom said. “All five guys needed to be 
51) from the field and its guard-Herrion under his right eye. WVU aggressive so they couldn’t play oriented lineup outrebounded the President Jim Clements apolo-on one person or two.” Mountaineers 38-30. gized to the University of Limited to two points in the first 
Leading scorer Da’Sean Butler Pittsburgh and declared that half, Reynolds hit a 3-pointer and had his worst performance in “boorish and unruly behavior by converted two three-point plays rebounds while holding Colonials was a rarity in the all-Pittsburgh three weeks and that haunted our fans will not be tolerated.” over a 3-minute span to push leading scorer Karon Abraham to matchup: a close game. Pitt is 28­West Virginia (19-4, 8-3), which Students behaved themselves Villanova’s lead to 58-47 with two points over the final 24 1/2 0 in the series, all on its home couldn’t overcome an 11-point this time. They scrapped a 10:28 remaining. minutes. Brad Wanamaker added court, with every victory by at halftime deficit and saw its six-derogatory chant typically done Casey Mitchell gave West 12 points and 10 rebounds for the least eight points. Since 1999, the game winning streak snapped. during opponent introductions. Virginia a flicker of hope with a Panthers. Panthers’ average winning mar-The Mountaineers will have to Extra security workers surround-long 3-pointer and free throw Pitt (18-6) won its second game gin is nearly 24 points. wait until Friday night at No. 25 ed the yellow-shirted student sec-with 2 minutes left to bring the in three days after losing four of The Colonials, an NCAA tourna-Pittsburgh to try for their sixth tion and fans were asked to report Mountaineers within 74-69, but five and ended a nine-game win-ment team out of the Northeast straight 20-win season. hooligans by text message just in Villanova converted six of eight ning streak by Robert Morris (16-Conference last season, took 
“You can’t expect Da’ to get 30 case. free throws in the final minute 9) for the second straight season. advantage of Abraham’s fast start points every game and carry us,” Corey Fisher added 17 points and made 19 of 22 overall. The Panthers took control by to go ahead 19-13. The 5-foot-9 West Virginia coach Bob Huggins and Antonio Pena had 10 for breaking out of a 32-all tie with freshman had 14 points as Pitt led said. “Our other guys are going to Villanova Pittsburgh 77, Robert Morris 53 2:38 left in the first half and led only 30-29 late in the half, but he have to do things.” Darryl Bryant led five Ashton Gibbs and Jermaine 59-37 with 12:18 remaining. wasn’t a factor offensively the rest 
Butler had scored a season-high Mountaineers in double figures Dixon led a mid-game surge as Abraham scored 16 points, but of the game. 33-points as West Virginia rallied with 15 points. Devin Ebanks had No. 25 Pittsburgh broke out of a didn’t have a basket after hitting a Once Abraham stopped scoring, from 16 points down in the second 13 points, Mitchell finished with tie late in the first half by scoring 3-pointer with 5:34 left in the first the Colonials did, too. Pitt scored 
12 and Kevin Jones added 11. 27 of the next 32 points, and half. His only points of the second seven of the final eight points of 
West Virginia couldn’t feed off remained unbeaten against city half were two free throws with the first half to take a 39-33 lead. the capacity crowd, leading only rival Robert Morris with a victory Pitt leading by 22 points with 6:06 Gilbert Brown’s tip-in with 2:18 in the game’s opening minutes. Monday night. remaining. Russell Johnson remaining — his first basket of the The Mountaineers picked up their Gibbs scored 20 points, only the scored 11 points and Velton Jones game — broke the 32-all tie and defensive intensity after halftime, second time in 10 games he’s and Mezie Nwigwe had 10 each preceded Dixon’s 3-pointer and holding Villanova without a field reached the 20-point mark, and for the Colonials. Brown’s own baseline drive. goal for the first 6 minutes. But Dixon had 18 points and six For most of the first half, this Brown has been a streaky scor­

er lately, getting 25 points against South Florida and 23 against Seton Hall but not scoring against West Virginia while the Panthers were losing four of six. He finished with six points. 
Quick 
continued from page 24 

Indoor Championships Feb. 20-21. He will seek titles in the triple jump and long jump in both the indoor and outdoor conference meets to put a fitting end to a stellar career. He narrowly missed out on qualifying for another NCAA appearance at the Indiana Invitational, but will get another crack at doing so in the conference meet. 
For a career that has been littered with individual and team honors, Quick has had one of the most successful campaigns in his four years at Notre Dame out of the many standout seniors on this year’s squad. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 



page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, February 9, 2010 
Hofstra 
continued from page 24 
need to work on but it was excellent preparation for the opener against Hofstra.” 
Coyne, entering her 14th season as head coach, has been with the team since they entered Division I in 1997 and has raised the program from the club level to one of the most feared in the country. 
With nine juniors and sen­iors in the starting lineup, experience at the collegiate level is in no shortage on the veteran squad. There is confidence that the senior leadership will help develop the younger players into stronger athletes and more adept “laxers.” 
“I think we have some younger players that blend in really nicely so we’ve got good balance,” Coyne said. “I think with each individual game we’ll have a chance to adapt and rise to the occa­sion.” 
Three seniors lead the No. 8 Irish, and they have relied on these seniors to show the underclassmen the ropes. 
“The underclassmen have been working really hard, bringing a fresh style of 
p l a y  s o  t h e  c h e m i s t r y  i s  
t h e r e , ”  s e n i o r  c a p t a i n  
R a c h e l  G u e r r e r a  s a i d .  

“They’ve adapted to the game so far.” 
The Irish will travel to Long Island to take on Hofstra in their season opener on Feb. 23. The last two meetings between the teams have been decided by a one goal margin, but this year there is hope that the tournament in January has given Notre Dame the edge they need for a decisive win. 
“Its always been a close game with them, coming off this weekend I think we can bring a better game than we have in the past,” senior captain Maggie Zentgraf said. 
In any case, it is shaping up to be an interesting year for the Irish, and for the returning players another opportunity to make a run for the National Championship. 
“We’re not satisfied with last season and you’ re always inspired by the other teams here to do your best,” Coyne said. 
Contact Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwi2@nd.edu 
Recruits 
continued from page 24 

recruiting ranking for three consecutive years. 
“I was not aware that we are the only school with three con­secutive top-six recruiting classes, but that is something we should be very proud of,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “Most of the credit should go to [associate head coach] Ryan Sachire, as he has been to even more junior events than I and has really developed a strong rapport with many of the coaches of the top junior players, which is a big key.” 
Notre Dame also signed more new players than any of the other four top-five teams. Each player signed National Letters of Intent in November to continue their careers under Bayliss and Sachire. 
Among the other top five recruiting leaders are Duke, who defeated the Irish 7-0 this past weekend, UCLA, Michigan, the Irish’s next opponent, and Georgia. UCLA currently stands at No. 4 while Duke is at No. 21. Notre Dame stands at No. 34. 
National tournament direc­tors, members of the media, and various junior tennis experts vote in the recruiting rankings on tennisrecruiting.net 
Each voter ranked the top-25 recruiting classes, giving schools 25 points for each first -place vote, 24 with someone it is important that we get along.” 
In order to land these play­ers, Notre Dame needed to beat out some noteworthy competition. Andrews, No. 11 on the top recr uiting 
points for list, was also 
“I don’t believe in bringing 
each second-highly inter-
place vote in anyone who cannot ested in and down to eventually play in our Michigan and one point for Stanford
lineup and each of these
each of the before sign-
guys have shown that
25 place ing with the votes. The potential.” Irish. Pecor, Irish No. 22 for received a recruiting, 
Bobby Bayliss 
total of 379 had a bit of 
Irish coach
points, com-an easier 
pared to 404 for Georgia in fourth place and 445 for Duke in first. 
Bayliss said he values cer­tain characteristics in recruits that may not show up in recruiting rankings. 
“Seeing them play as often as possible is important because you want to know how they will handle stress and adversity as much as how they handle success,” Bayliss said. “I like to see how they interact with their peers and their par­ents. If they are rude to their parents they will likely be the same with me. If I am going to spend four years of my life decision, 
signing early in September to play for the Irish. 
“I don’t believe in bringing in anyone who cannot eventually play in our lineup and each of these guys have shown that potential.” Bayliss said. “We currently have a couple of guys who are clearly better in doubles and it will be interest­ing to see how each of these new additions adapts there. Certainly we will be among the deepest teams in the country next year.” 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 


Bearcats 
continued from page 24 

Roudebush was one rebound shy of a triple-double and fin­ished with a line of 19 points, nine rebounds and 10 assists. Guard Sharees 
Ulis added 23 “[Rebounding is] an 1.5. points. important part of the “That’s an Cincinnati has important
game for us. We need 
four players who part of the 
average double to get back to the game for us,” figures, which basics of boxing out.” McGraw said. could put pres-“We need to sure on a Notre get back to 
Muffet McGraw 
Dame defense the basics of 
Irish coach
that gave up 76 boxing out. 
points Saturday. 

However, McGraw said the Irish should be able to fix the problem. 
“We’re just going to work a little harder,” she said. “I thought our effort was poor in the Pittsburgh game. We did-n’t put pressure on the ball, our press wasn’t effective. In general I thought it was most­ly effort, so we can fix that right away.” 
The Irish have also had 
trouble rebounding in their last few games, but were able to out -rebound Pittsburgh behind a 10-board effort by freshman guard Skylar Diggins. While the Bearcats trail their opponents in most categories, they do hold an average rebound advantage of 
Right now, 
Skylar is com­
ing off of a double-double, [senior guard] Ashley Barlow, [senior guard] Lindsay Schrader and [junior forward] Devereaux Peters are doing great on the boards.” 
Notre Dame holds a 5-0 all-time record against Cincinnati, making the Bearcats one of just two Big East opponents, along with Providence, whom the Irish have never lost to. 
The Irish will look to contin­ue that streak tonight at 7 
p.m. in Cincinnati. 
Note: 

 Freshman guard Skylar Diggins was named Big East Freshman of the Week Monday for the fourth time this season and the third time in the past five weeks. 
She joins former Irish play­ers Alicia Ratay and Jacqueline Batteast as the only freshmen to receive this honor four times in a season. 
Diggins averaged 18.5 points, 7 rebounds, 3.5 assists and 2.5 steals per game last week. Against Pittsburgh Saturday, she set career highs in points (23), rebounds (10) and free throws made and attempted (9-of-11). She also tied a career high with six assists. 
“Coming off of the game she just had she had to be a pretty easy choice,” McGraw said. “She just gets better every game. She studies up and does whatever she has to do to help us win.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

and Koter eighth with 271.30. “They dive as  “They dive as a team and that is something we have been able to  I n v i t a t i o n a l . Geary also came up big at this time of the  
a team and that is some- do for years.”  year last sea-son. He scored  
thing we have been able to do for years,”  Tim Welsh Irish coach  a 313.65 at Northwestern, his career best  
Welsh  said.  for the 1-meter.  
“They  are  a  This  will  be  
unified group  the  first  Big  

and they have had some great East Championships Koter has performances.” participated in, but the rigor-
In last year’s NCAA Zone ous schedule the Irish have Meet, Geary posted a com-had should be enough to bined score of 564.20, and preparation for this weekend. Villaflor ended with a score of Welsh credited coach Caiming Xie with the success of the diving program. 
“We depend on Caiming a lot,” Welsh said. “When he says the swimmers are ready to go, then they are ready to go. He really is a superb coach.” 
This is Xie’s 15th season as the Notre Dame diving coach. He coached 2008 All-American Michael Bulfin and was named the Big East Men’s Diving Coach of the Year each year from 2005-2007. Under Xie, Notre Dame’s male divers have posted the top seven scores in school history in 1-meter div­ing, and eight of the top ten scores in 3-meter diving. 
Villaflor, Geary and Koter will look to add to the accom­plished list of Xie’s pupils this weekend at the Big East Championships. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
Welsh 
continued from page 24 

second in the 3-meter diving event, finishing with 367.15 points. Geary finished fifth with 296.50 
239.50. 

Villaflor closed out last sea­son with posted scores of 
324.00 and 323.75 against Northwestern and at the Big East Championships, respec­tively. His career best for the 
3-meter is 
326.70 at the 2009 Shamrock 
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  
26  27  28  29  30  31  32  33  
34  35  36  
37  38  39  
40  41  42  
43  44  45  
46  47  
48  49  50  51  52  53  54  55  56  
57  58  59  
60  61  62  
63  64  65  

Tuesday, February 9, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD 
60Nagging desire 61In a snit 62Subject of much
Mideast praise 63Pigskin supports64Manly man 65Missouri Indian 
Down 
1 Window part 2 Just adorable 3 ___-Eaters 
(shoe inserts) 4 *School evacuation exercises 5 AMcCoy, to a Hatfield 6 “Key Largo”Oscar winner Claire ___ 7 Orthodontist's 
concern 8 Wolfed down 9 Most risqué 
10Losing streak 11 Jeans maker ___ Strauss 12Ready for
business 13Like an oracle 18Foppish dresser 19Tip of a wingtip 24Reunion group:
Abbr. 25Full of oneself 26Nobel or Celsius 27Orange feature 28Popular typeface 29W.W. II sea 
menace 
30*Evel and Robbie Knievel, for two 

WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Puzzle by C.W. Stewart 
31Taking habitually 45Said “bos'n” for 52Chile's northern “boatswain,” e.g. neighbor
32Cut into tiny bits 46When repeated, 54Seat of Allen 
33Hippies'crosses gung-ho 
County, Kan. 38Hatfield/McCoy 48Engaged in a 
55Hang-up 

affair 38-Down 49Big bash 561975 Wimbledon 
39Ran in the wash winner
50Add a kick to 

41Anne Bradstreet, 51Phil who sang 58Pure baloney for one 
“Draft Dodger 42Spring bloomers Rag” 59“___ Te Ching” 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&Tusers: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

Across 
1 Pooh-pooh, with“at” 6 Way up a ski slope10School zone warning14TV signalcomponent15Beatles meter maid 
16Topper forCharles de Gaulle 
17*Antishopliftingforce 
20Roll-call call 
21D.C.'s Pennsylvania,e.g.
22Antisepticelement 
23Early JamesBond foe 
25With 46-Across,be angry … or what you can do inside the answers to the six starred clues 
26*Marching bandpercussion 30Lower chamber of Russia's parliament

34In a cautious way35Excuse maker's word 36X ___ xylophone37Satan's doings38State of confusion 39Verge40Word with a handshake 41Shell gamespheroid42Hold tight43Some annexes 44*Rims 46See 25-Across 47Prospector'sstrike 48Financiallysolvent 
52E-mail attachment, forshort 
53MasterCard 

alternative 57*Textbooks for instructors 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Tuesday, February 9, 2010 page 24 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
No rest 
Rested Cinci awaits rolling Notre Dame 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame hasn’t had a lot of time to rest since a physi­cal victory over Pittsburgh Saturday, but when the No. 4/3 Irish step onto the court against Cincinnati tonight at Fifth Third Arena, they will face a Bearcats team that has not played in a week. 
“I think a break like that is a good thing, especially in February,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “But when you’re winning, you don’t really want time off. We’re on a roll. We want to keep on going.” 
The Irish (21-1, 8-1 Big East) are 6-0 since losing to No. 1 Connecticut on Jan. 16. 
The Bearcats (10-11, 3-6) last played in a Feb. 2 over­time victory over Louisville. 

In that game, guard Kahla TOM LA/The Observer 
Freshman guard Skylar Diggins slips between two Pittsburgh defenders for a basket during see BEARCATS/page 22 Notre Dame’s 86-76 victory on Feb. 6. Diggins and the Irish take on Cincinnati tonight. 

MEN’S DIVING 

Threedivers lead squad toward title 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 

When Notre Dame heads to the Big East Championships in Pittsburgh this weekend, three divers, led by one coach, will set the tone for the Irish. 
Juniors Wesley Villaflor and Nathan Geary and freshman Ryan Koter are a part of the “Big Three” for the Irish div­ing squad. Irish coach Tim Welsh is optimistic that they will continue to perform at a high level. 
“What we have seen this year is three guys who have all improved,” Welsh said. “They dove very well at the Shamrock Invitational last weekend.” 
In the Shamrock Invitational, Notre Dame (5-6) beat Denver, but lost to Iowa and Missouri. Villaflor placed 
see WELSH/page 22 

MEN’S TRACK & FIELD 

Senior jumper Quick continues to lead Irish for fourth year 
for the last several years, ond in the 60-meter dash at success in the jumps contin-Mideast Regional appearance. 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 

Quick has made quite a name the Notre Dame Indoor ued with third-place finishes While just missing out on 
Sports Writer 

for himself on the conference Opener. in both the triple jump and gaining conference honors for level. Quick’s career got off to a long jump at the Big East the third straight season, 
Three Big East Indoor Already this season, Quick fast start, as he earned all-Indoor Championships. At the Quick still made impressive Championship appearances, has claimed a first place fin-Big East honors in his first outdoor conference meet, performances in both events three Big East Outdoor ish in the long jump at the season, finishing second in Quick finished fourth and at the Big East Indoor and appearances, two-time all-Big Indiana Invitational. The the triple jump at the Big sixth in the triple jump and Outdoor Championships. East selection, one NCAA California native qualified for East Indoor Championships, long jump, respectively. For Quick has not slowed down appearance. the Big East Championships helping the Irish claim the the second time in as many this year, and is on pace to 
That ’s the outstanding with his second place finish in title that year. Quick also seasons, Quick was an all-earn another all-conference resume for senior jumper the triple jump and fourth earned a spot in the Big East conference selection. selection, depending on his Eric Quick. As the leading place finish in the long jump Outdoor Championships, fin-In his third season on cam-performance in the Big East competitor for the Irish in the at the Notre Dame ishing 13th in the long jump. pus, Quick’s performances long jump and the triple jump Invitational, and he took sec-As a sophomore, Quick’s catapulted him to an NCAA see QUICK/page 21 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Class of 2014 shows promise 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame’s last two recruiting classes have been ranked sixth and fifth, respec­tively, and this year’s class is no different. 
The Notre Dame recruiting Class of 2014 has been ranked the fifth-best in the country according to a tennisrecruit­ing.net poll, one of the top comprehensive sources for tennis recruiting in the coun­try. The Irish will welcome Greg Andrews, Ryan Bandy, Matt Dooley and Billy Pecor to the courts next year. 
Notre Dame is the only pro­gram in the nation that can currently boast a top-six 
see RECRUITS/page 22 


WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Highly-touted ND prepares for season 
By KEVIN BALDWIN 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame is preparing to take to the field for the start of the 2010 season and with it a chance to follow up a record setting 2009 sea­son that culminated in the team’s first Big East cham­pionship. 
Last year the Irish went 16-5 overall, 6-2 in the Big East, and made the NCAA tournament for the fifth time in program history. They toppled Vanderbilt in the first round but victory eluded them in the quarter­final round against a domi­nant North Carolina in the first ever meeting between the two teams. 
In January, the Irish trav­eled to Florida for a presea­son exhibition tournament against the U.S. National Team as well as the U.S. Development Team to test their metal against the world’s best, and work out any kinks before the start of intercollegiate competition. 
“It was the World Cup team our first game so when you go into that kind of situ­ation, it’s more to see what you can do well but also to learn from the best,” Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. “We have some things we 
see HOFSTRA/page 22 




