the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


LocalsdiscussNDneighbors 
Residents say community relations improve when students reach out 

By JOHN CAMERON and 
MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writers 
South Bend is not a college town. 
The fraternities, sororities and off-campus houses that line the streets of cities like Bloomington and Dayton are no where to be found on Notre Dame Avenue, Eddy Street or Angela Boulevard. 
Tensions sometimes do arise from a discrepancy between students’ expecta­tions of college town free­doms and local families’ expectations for quiet neigh­borhoods. 
A South Bend resident of 68 years, Deacon Brian Miller said he felt students needed 



Memorial scholarship will honor Sullivan 


By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
The University’s Financial Management Board has voted to establish a memorial scholarship award in memory of junior Declan Sullivan. 
The scholarship is through the Shirt Charity Fund, which raises funds with sales from the annual student football shirt. 
“Part of the purpose of the Shirt Charity Fund is to set up a memo­rial award in the event of a stu­
see MEMORIAL/page 4 

to understand the stereotypi­cal Animal House college lifestyle does not fit the family neighborhoods of South Bend. 
“The students, they need to try to be respectful neighbors. If they have a party they need to make sure there are parameters,” he said. 
Tensions rose when a spike 
see LOCALS/page 4 


Administrator writes book on financial aid 
By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
Joe Russo, director of student financial strategies, recently published his fourth book, and has found that a lot of people want to hear from him, he said. 
He has seen interest from col­lege students, families of college students, school administrators, high school guidance coun­selors, young financial aid offi­cers, education policy makers and even researchers at Oxford. 
His fourth book, “The Art and Science of Student Aid Administration in the 21st Century,” is the book he said he hopes will be his legacy in the profession to which he has devoted his life. 
According to Russo, this latest book is his most scholarly. The book was published by the National Association of Financial Aid Administrators (NASFAA), and Russo said he will not make any money from sales of this book, but the pro­ceeds will instead go toward a NASFAA scholarship fund. 
“The more experience you have doing something, the more confident you become,” Russo said. “So, I combined my knowl­edge and confidence with my writing skills … to write this book. The science is the imper­sonal but necessary budgets, formulas, numbers and struc­ture. 

“The art is the common sense, compassion and knowl­edge of when to make excep­tions that must supplement the science. A successful adminis­trator needs both art and sci­ence.” 
He said his book examines the history that led to the modern financial aid landscape. Russo said he systematically analyzes the policies and practices that have altered student financial aid programs over the course of his career. 
“I believe you can know more about where we are today, if you know where we came from,” Russo said. 
This is Russo’s 46th year working in financial aid admin­istration, and the majority of his career has been with Notre Dame. He began working at Notre Dame in 1978 after work­ing at two other institutions in up-state New York. 
“The single biggest challenge of my career has been getting out good, timely, accurate infor­mation,” Russo said. 
Each year Russo works to dis­pel the myths and fallacies that prospective students and their families harbor about financial 
see AID/page 4 



Irish to visit Yankee Stadium 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
Yesterday, the Irish left South Bend to take over Manhattan. Tomorrow, Notre Dame will take on Army in Yankee Stadium — this year’s neutral territory. 
Mike Seamon, head of Game Day Operations, said this year’s eighth home game at an away location was revealed at last year’s neu­tral territory game in San Antonio, Texas with certain goals in mind. 
“This weekend ’s events were built around five main pillars,” Seamon said. “Academics, faith, service, athletics and the celebration of the Notre Dame family.” 
In order to support these goals, Notre Dame sent the Marching Band, leprechaun and cheerleaders to New York to accompany the foot­ball team. 
Senior Glynnis Garry, drum major of the Notre Dame Marching Band, said the Band left Thursday morning, stopped at Strongsville High School in Ohio for a rehears­al and then stayed in Glenn Point, New Jersey for the night. 

However this year’s lep­rechaun, senior David 
see STADIUM/page 5 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Professor given German award page 3  Sneak Peek at Scene Around the World page 9  Women’s basketball suffers loss page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Friday, November 19, 2010 

THE OBSERVER 

THE HOT SEAT: FIVE QUESTIONS, ONE PERSON, INFINITE POSSIBILITIES 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 


Question: What was the best part of coming back for the team’s 10­year reunion? Riley: Just seeing each other and reconnecting with our teammates and catching up on where they are in their lives. Mostly re-living some of the memories we had here together. 
Q: What was your first thought when your banner got unrolled in the Ring of Honor? Riley: I was completely surprised. I had no idea. Appreciation for the University for honoring me. 
Q: 
What do you think of the Purcell Pavilion? Riley: Oh, it’s beautiful. What an amazing arena here, and just knowing that we’re a small part of building it to what it is today and the legacy of Notre Dame women’s basketball. 

Q: 
What are your thoughts on this year’s team? Riley: They look great. Obviously it’s the first game of the season, but they look really good. You would expect nothing less from Coach McGraw’s teams. 




Know someone who should be in the hot seat? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 

California couple stand out as world’s tallest 
LOS ANGELES — Their height made Wayne and Laurie Hallquist seem like an ideal match when they met seven years ago, and on Thursday they were matched with something else — the title of world’s tallest living married cou­ple. 
Guinness World Records bestowed that towering dis­tinction to the Hallquists in a ceremony under the mar­quee at its Hollywood muse­um. The couple arrived in a white limousine, with Wayne sporting a tuxedo and Laurie in a white wed­ding dress. 
The Hallquists, who live in Stockton, California, meas­ure a combined 13 feet, 4 inches, or 407.4 centime­ters, to be exact. He stands 6 feet 10.4 inches, she 6 feet 
5.95 inches, the Guinness organization said. 
“It’s a whole different per­spective up here, and we can find each other quite easily in a crowd,” Laurie told Reuters. 
All Russia invited to help name Putin’s new puppy 
MOSCOW — Prime Minister Vladimir Putin has invited Russians to help him come up with a name for his new puppy, which he received as a gift from his Bulgarian counterpart over the weekend. 
“Anyone who wishes to can send their suggestion of a male name for the prime minister’s new dog to his site,” a government state­ment said on its official website www.premier.gov.ru 
After Moscow and Sofia signed a series of accords to boost the South Stream gas pipeline, Putin was all smiles when Bulgarian Prime Minister Boiko Borisov presented the Karakachan dog to the 58­year-old leader. 
Putin, who has a black belt in judo and has culti­vated a macho image, snug­gled the fluffy, floppy-eared puppy of three months before gently planting a kiss on his snout. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
Today, Student Players will present a staged reading of Notre Dame graduate student’s Carina Finn’s original play, Thirteen Ways of Breaking, in the Lab Theater at Washington Hall. Admission is free but tick­eted, and seating is limited. 
The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture will present its 11th annual fall flagship conference today through tomorrow at 10 p.m., with 10 speakers and over 100 presen­tations. It will be in McKenna Hall and it is free for the tri­campus community. 
The fair trade retailer Ten Thousand Villages will return to campus to host the annual sale of international handi­crafts. This year’s sale will take place in the Hesburgh Library Atrium today from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. 
Comedian Mark Lundholm will perform his autobiograph­ical one-man show at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center today at 7 p.m. Tickets range from $15 to $30. Because of strong language and content, may be inappro­priate for ages 16 and younger. 
To celebrate the end of International Education Week, Saint Mary’s College is holding an International Cultural Fair. Over 20 different coun­tries will be featured for this cultural expo. It will be today from noon to 2 p.m. in the Student Center. It is being sponsored by Around the World Club, Student Government Association and the Center for Women's Intercultural Leadership. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Meaghan Veselik Megan Doyle Allan Joseph Graphics Andrew Gostelum Gaspar Garcia de Scene Paredes Ankur Chawla 
Photo Viewpoint 
Tom La Megan Kozak 

Today Tonight SATURDAY SUNDAY MONDAY TUESDAY 







CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 

52 31 4657 6250
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

31 26 3748 4027 
HIGH LOW 

HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Friday, November 19, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Professor receives German award 
Kommers honored for service to Germany during ceremony in Chicago 


By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Germany’s highest honor, the Officer’s Cross of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany, was awarded to polit­ical science professor Donald Kommers on Nov. 8. 
The award is given for out­standing service to the country and is reserved for both Germans and foreigners. 
“I [had] no idea who or what was behind this award,” Kommers said. “It took me totally by surprise.” 
The award was presented to Kommers in a ceremony at the German Consulate office in Chicago. Onno Hückmann, the German Consulate General, pre­sented the award. Hückmann praised Kommers’ aca-
Kommers said he has been interested in Germany since he was a boy. 
He grew up in a German area of Wisconsin, and was exposed to the culture at a young age. He studied the language for three years in high school and 

then again in college. their goal from working toward After receiving his Ph.D. in civil and human rights domesti­political science at the cally to a more international 
University of Wi sconsin, Kommers came to Notre Dame in 1967. After a trip to Germany in 1968 to study their high court, he decided to change the course of his academic life. 
“I’ve always been interested in the judicial system, so I started compar­ing the U.S. sys­tem to courts 

“I’ve always been interested in the judicial system, so I started comparing the U.S. system to courts around the world.” 
Donald Kommers professor political science 
mission. 
Through out his career, Kommers has written count­less articles on the subject of comparative constitutional government. 
One of his works, “The Constitutional Jurisprudence of the Federal 
Republic  if  
Germany,”  is  
going  into  its  

around the 
world,” Kommers said. “ I 
decided to combine my interest in the American constitutional 
demic success “I [had] no idea who law with and his contri­
or what was behind German consti­
bution to build-tutional law.” 
this award. It took me 
ing a bridge between The totally by surprise.” 
United States 
Donald Kommers 
and Germany in a way that few professor others have. political science 
law. In President 
In his 43 years of academic life spent at the U n i v e r s i t y, Kommers has served as a pro­fessor of politi­cal science and 1974, University Emeritus Fr. 
Theodore Hesburgh named him the director of the Center for Civil and Human Rights. 
It was under Kommers’ serv­ice that the center changed third printing. This book helped to develop the field of compara­tive constitutional law, Kommers said. 

“It brought the attention of the German courts to the English speaking world,” Kommers said. 
This is not the first time Kommers has been awarded by the German government for his academic work. 
In 2008, he was awarded the Berlin Prize, which allowed him to continue his study of the German constitutional courts at the American Academy in Berlin and in 1998, he received an honorary doctorate of law from Heidelberg University. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 




College holds high schoolchoirfestival 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
With 20 women’s choirs from Indiana, Michigan and Illinois, the High School Women’s Choir Festival held at Saint Mary’s College promotes female chorus groups, Nancy Menk, director of choral activities, said. 
“It’s for constructive criticism and help,” she said. “It’s not a competition. It’s just a festival.” 
Menk said the opportunity allowed feedback from a panel of three commentators. The festival, which began Thursday, also allowed each choir to listen to comparable women’s choirs to gain insight. 
The commentators this year were Paul Caldwell of Chicago, Sean Ivory of Grand Rapids, Mich. and Barbara Tagg of Syracuse, N.Y. 
According to Menk, each choir performed for the other choirs and the commentators. Following each performance, one of the three commentators worked directly with the choir to provide feedback on their performance. The choir will receive written comments from the other mem­bers of the panel. 
“They come here and each choir performs a short program for each other and for a panel of commentators that we bring in,” Menk said. “These are experts in the field. Following their per­formance one of the three com­mentators goes up on stage with a [microphone] and works with the choir, like in a workshop for­mat, to improve some aspect of their performance.” 

The festival is a two-day event and will end today around 4:30 p.m. 
Menk said the Saint Mary’s College Women’s Choir per­formed each day to provide an example for the high school stu­dents. 
The annual festival is celebrat­ing its 26th year. 
Menk said the festival is mutu­ally beneficial for the high school students and the College. 
“It’s important for Saint Mary’s because it brings 800 prospective students to our campus, and its promoting good choral singing among high school women,” Menk said. “It’s promoting good quality repertoire for high school choirs, and it’s giving them a chance … to go to a festival and something that’s geared just toward them.” 
According to Menk, the festival hopes to improve singing and pride within each organization. 
“It should help them to feel good about what they’re doing. It should give them an aspiration, something to aspire to with their choir, to be able to work at a higher level,” she said. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 19, 2010 
when I asked them to move 
they drove through my yard. 



Locals 


continued from page 1 
in arrests occurred earlier in the semester, but cooled, and arrests declined. Miller said he felt the student presence in the neighbor ­hood to be largely positive. 
“Most of the “I suppose neighbors 
students are probably think it is well -inten-
their right to call [the
tioned and respectful, ” police] if the students Miller said. are being loud.” 
But South Bend resident 
Jim Carter 
Jim Carter con-
South Bend resident
siders calling police to be a reasonabl e response if a situation war­rants it. 
“I suppose neighbors proba­bly think it is their right to call if the students are being loud,” he said. 
Shirley McFarland, a local resident, said she felt some of the arrests might have been unwarranted. 
“I think some of them could have been avoided,” she said. “I have phone numbers for That was the worst time.” 
She said since the 1980s, students in her neighborhood have become significantly more considerate. 
“After that, it got better, once the police started talking 
to them,” she said. “Most of the time I don’t even know when people are over there.” 
Good Neighbor Guides, distrib­uted to off-cam­pus students at the beginning of the year, suggest communicating with neighbors about upcoming 
parties and giving them con­tact information. Miller said while communication is help­ful, parties need to be con­tained. 
“It’s just not acceptable to be having big keg parties. It’s a recipe for trouble,” he said. 
In addition to forming rela­tionships with their immediate neighbors, residents said stu­dent involvement in the com­munity was also crucial to main-


tive level. 
“I’m over there a lot, to me I think it’s growth for the neigh­borhood,” McFarland said. “It brings business, it’s something for the community to look for­ward to, and people off cam­pus can get jobs.” 
Miller said individual stu­dents could help maintain good relations with the com­munity by continuing to be active in South Bend and maintaining open lines of com­munication with neighbors. 

“I think the students are great in helping the communi­ty,” Miller said. “If you’ve got a problem you need to talk to the people involved.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu and Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
South Bend resident and Notre Dame 1964 alumnus Ben Cashman said student and community relations improved along with an increase in stu­dent outreach. 
“Students do a lot of volun­teer work, so that has helped relationships,” he said. “There was not much involvement with South Bend in my student days. We did not have chances to get involved with non-prof­its like the Logan Center or the homeless center.” 
MacFarland said student vol­unteers at the Robinson Community Learning Center helped her son and other local children with after-school pro­gramming. 
“[Students should] continue to be involved at the Robinson Community Learning Center, because they have a lot of kids there who have no help in the afternoons.” 
Some residents said they saw the University’s involve­ment in the construction of Eddy Street Commons as another positive way for Notre Dame to contribute to the community at an administra­200 kids would be across the should be] just trying to keep street, two cars would be the neighborhood halfway parked in my driveway, and decent.” 
the students so I w ould c all them first.”  “Students do a lot of volunteer work, so  taining positive relations. “I t h ink the  
M c F a r l a n d moved into her house on Notre D ame Avenue in 1 984. She  that has helped relationships. There was not much involvement with  st u dents are quite involved, I see pictures i n the p aper o f them volunteer- 
said students back then were often problem­atic residents.  South Bend in my student days. We did not hav chances to  ing downtown,” Carter said. He s aid some parts of the city  
“Yea rs ago, when my hus­band first died, I thought I was  get involved with non-profts like Logan Center or the  are o n the decline and need he lp from s tu-dents.  
going to have to move out of  homeless center.”  “I rest  t h ink the of Sout h  
the ne ighb or-hood,” she said. “I would  Ben Cashman South Bend resident  Bend is getting l et go and g et -ting pretty rot- 
come  home  ten, ”  h e  said.  
from work and  “  [ S t u d e n t s  




Memorial 
continued from page 1 
dent passing away, so it is normal for Financial Management Board to establish an award like this,” Student Union treasurer junior Sarah Hurtubise, 
a junior, said. 
“It’s wonderful that 
Sullivan, a will administer it. videographer for the Student Union “We hope to the football team, can honor Declan in come to a decision died on Oct. 27 on the specifics by 
this way. This is a 
after the the end of this hydraulic scissor beautiful way to semester,” she lift where he was remember and said. filming football The Board has 
celebrate Declan’s life 
practice fell. discussed the pos-
According to for years to come.” sibility of the Hurtubise, the award being given Shirt Charity to a resident of 
Catherine Soler 
Fund was initial-Fisher Hall, where 
student body president
ly designed to Sullivan lived on untouched will allow the Declan Sullivan Memorial Award to con­tinue from year to year, without anyone having to worry about running out of funds,” she said. 
Hurtubise said the Financial Management Board and student government are working together now to decide on the criteria for the award and to determine who 
assist undergrad­uate and graduate students who display extraordinary need in pay­ing off medical expenses. 
Hurtubise said the Financial Management Board voted on Nov. 2 to allocate the standard amount of $25,000 from the Shirt Charity Fund for the Declan Sullivan Memorial Award. 
“It will be an endowed award with an annual return of $1,000,” she said. 
Hurtubise said the $25,000 principal will remain untouched and the annual award given to a student will be $1,000. 
“Leaving the $25,000 principal 
campus, or to a student in the Film, Television and Theatre (FTT) program, but no official decisions have been made, according to Hurtubise. 
Student body president Catherine Soler said the Memorial Fund is an excellent way to remember Sullivan. 
“It’s wonderful that the Student Union can honor Declan in this way,” Soler said. “This is a beauti­ful way to remember and cele­brate Declan’s life for years to come.” 

Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 

Aid 
continued from page 1 
aid, he said. At the same time, he said he informs them of the many truths and demonstrates why a Notre Dame education is a good investment in a stu­dent’s future. 
Russo said he is proud that through the efforts of his department, a Notre Dame education remains reasonably affordable for all students. 
According to Russo, the University provided approxi­mately $98 million this year, which is up from $89 million last year. 
He said all of this keeps him and the others in his depart­ment busy year-round. However, Russo said the feel­ing of pride that comes with helping to shape each new freshman class validates the uation. 
work. He said while other high pro­“I was a student aid recipi-file institutions are going ent, and I think that makes me through layoffs, budget cuts 
a better administra ­tor,” Russo said. 
According to Russo, the cost of atten­dance is being placed more and more on the individual rather than the govern­ment. Russo explained that 

“I was a student aid recipient, and I think that makes me a better administrator.” 
Joe Russo director student fnancial strategies 
and construction freezes, Notre Dame’s “belt­tightening” has been less drastic. Russo attributes this to the University’s large endowment, con­servative invest­ing, diversified revenue streams, improved effi­ciency and an 
tuition is 
increasing more quickly for state schools, but is increasing for private institutions as well. 
Notre Dame is not exempt from this trend, but Russo said compared to similar institu­tions, Notre Dame has been successful at managing the sit-athletic program that pays for itself. 

“We are conservative with our finances, and we’re blessed with resources,” Russo said. 

Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 

Friday, November 19, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Zimmer and the cheerleaders Mass at St. Patrick’s Student body president opportunity to inspire people, 
will only be present as Notre Cathedral, where University Catherine Soler said while especially in young audiences. 


Stadium 
Dame representatives, continued from page 1 Seamon said. 
The Band will then gather Zimmer, beat the Band and at 5:30 p.m. for the Pep Rally football team to New York. outside at Lincoln Center. 
“I’m actually flying out Seamon said the Pep Rally early because I’m going to be will also feature Coach Brian on Live with Regis and Kelly Kelly, Notre Dame alumni and 
on  Friday  morn- former player  
i n g , ”  Z i m m e r  Justin Tuck  —  
said. “Then I’ll  currently with  
be hanging out w i t h t h e b a n d  “We have so much  the New Yo r k Giants, — rep- 
for  most  of the  momentum behind us.  r e s e n t a t i v e s  
rest of Friday.” To d a y, b a n d m e m b e r s h a v e  With such a big opportunity on the  f r o m t h e Yankees, Notre Dame Football  
the day to them- lines, Notre Dame’s  R a d i o  v o i c e  
selves to explore Manhattan. “ I ’ v e n e v e r b e e n t o N e w York City before. I ’ v e h e a r d t h e E m p i r e S t a t e Building and the  going to be playing hard. I’m really looking forward to the atmostphere, playing it up and getting everyone  Don Criqui and o t h e r s p e c i a l guests. Zimmer said he has mostly b e e n l o o k i n g f o r w a r d t o i n t e r a c t i n g  
Statue of Liberty t a k e t o o m u c h t i m e , ” G a r r y  pumped up for the game.”  with fans. “It’s definite­ly a big thing. I  
said. “So I might  tal ked  t o  l ast  
j u s t  w a n d e r  David Zimmer  y e a r ’s  l e p - 
around the city.” S o m e m i g h t  leprechaun  r e c h a u n, Da n Collins, about  
t a k e  a  b r e a k  what it  means  
around 3 p.m. to  t o  b e  a  t r u e  
w a t c h  B o b  I r i s h  f a n  a n d  

Bernhard, vice president for about subway alumni,” he Research, close the bell at said. “They originated in New NASDAQ Stock Market. York and there’s a lot of histo-Though there were initially ry out there, which is really rumors that the leprechaun neat to be a part of.” would be closing the bell, Game day will begin with a President Fr. Army is bringing “We hope to bring kids to John Jenkins many cadets, Notre Dame so they can see will be the “The online ticket Notre Dame will how great of opportunities main cele -have a good rep-Notre Dame music in particu­

lottery sold all 600
b r a n t , resentation in the lar can bring,” Garry said. 
tickets right away. 
Seamon said. stands. She said it has been an 
At noon, We actually ended “The online honor to be part of a group of the band will up getting some more ticket lottery sold such incredible people. perform in all 600 tickets “It really has been one of 
tickets since there
T i m e s right away. We the most amazing experiences Square, fol -was such a high actually ended up of my life. To share this expe­lowed by a demand.” getting some more rience is so different and tailgate at tickets since there exciting,” Garry said. “We’re the New York was such a high very lucky.” 
Catherine Soler
S h e r a t o n demand,” she Soler agreed, saying neutral Hotel. Garry student body president said. territory games truly demon-said the con-Soler said the strate the Notre Dame spirit. cert will run student unions “It’s a really positive experi­45 minutes, an extended ver-had to really work to gain the ence for everyone to see that sion of the normal perform-right-center field camaraderie ance on campus. section in Yankee in a totally “We’re then going to Yankee Stadium for “We hope to bring different city,” Stadium on subway cars from Notre Dame stu-kids to Notre Dame so she said. Times Square that they’ve dents. “There, we 
they can see how
blocked off for the whole “The University can see Notre 
great of opportunities
band,” Garry said. “Then has a policy that Dame has a we’ll quickly practice with the students don’t get Notre Dame music in strong effect West Point Glee Club for our tickets to away over the 
particular can bring.” 
halftime show.” games with dis-entire coun ­
At 7 p.m., the game begins. tances that might try. 
Zimmer said this game is be considered Glynnis Garry “We visit so very special, especially after unsafe to drive. head drum major many land ­the big win against Utah. So we really had mark places 
“We have so much momen-to push for this,” and represent tum behind us. With such a she said. “Bottom line: This is who we are.” big opportunity on the lines, a unique and special opportu-The neutral-territory tradi-Notre Dame’s going to be nity.” tion will continue next year at playing hard,” he said. “I’m After the game, Garry said FedEx Field in Washington, really looking forward to the the band will perform at D.C., Seamon said. atmosphere, playing it up and McColm’s Park for anyone getting everyone pumped up who couldn’t go to the game. Contact Nicole Toczauer at for the game.” She said these trips are an ntoczaue@nd.edu 

The Observer 


View po in t
page 6 Friday, November 19, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Magic that unites us 
As an Arts and Letters major, I often get “interesting” ideas in my head which I usually attribute to my spo­radic sanity. For instance, I was thor­oughly convinced Fr. Hesburgh had an apartment on the 13th floor of the 
Sam Stryker 
library (which apparently isn’t 
News 
true). I am also 
Production 
afraid when I am 
Editor 
swimming back­stroke in a pool that a great white shark will come up from underneath and eat me. Crazy, I know. 
One of the most comforting things in the world is when discovering the same crazy thought has been going through someone else’s head. This proves either I am not as crazy as I think, or some­one is as crazy as me. This happened the other day in my Italian class when we were discussing “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows.” A girl thought our generation had found such a con­nection with the series because with every book and film we were approxi­mately the same age as the characters. 
What J.K. Rowling has accomplished is amazing. As you have undoubtedly heard our generation has been accused of being too focused on iPods, comput­ers, television and video games when we look for entertainment outlets. Yet her story of a school-age wizard and his journeys has captured the imagina­tion of our age bracket. Some like to attribute this to the amazing world she created and her attention to detail. Others point to the mythology of the series. However, neither is able to explain why Notre Dame food services felt compelled to hold a “Harry Potter Dinner” on Wednesday night where students dressed up as their favorite characters to be sorted into one of the four Hogwarts houses. 
The real reason is we grew up with Harry and his friends. His struggles were ours — as we were headed off to middle school for the first time, Harry was being introduced to the wizarding world. As our generation was going through our awkward teenage years, Harry and Ron were struggling to land dates to the Yule Ball. We are always able to relate to one of the characters 
— hardworking Hermione, noble Harry or loyal Ron. You didn’t just grow up with the characters on your own — part of the experience is talking about the books with your friends, and dress­ing up for the midnight premieres of the movies. Now, just as we are about to embark into adulthood, Harry is looking for Horcruxes, and becoming a man as he tries to defeat Lord Voldemort. 
J.K. Rowling has gone on the record as saying she doesn’t plan on writing any more books, and with the film series drawing to a close, it looks like a chapter in the life of our generation is finally ending. Nothing will compare to the collective experience of growing up with Harry Potter. For me, seeing all the students dressed up in Gryffindor robes and scarves Wednesday night, lined out the door of the dining hall is just as powerful as seeing the student section wearing “The Shirt” on football Saturdays. Despite our crazy schedules and the technology that is drawing us apart, a little bit of magic can always draw us back together. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 


Yankee Stadium face off 
When Notre Dame takes on Army this Saturday night, it’s safe to say the game will be about more than just the action on the field. The matchup will be Notre Dame’s second off-site home game, an event the athletic department hopes to make an annu­al occurrence. 
Last year, Notre Dame played Washington State in San Antonio. The Irish will play Maryland in Washington, D.C., next year, followed by Miami at Solider Field in Chicago in 2012. 
The idea itself may be slightly flawed. Because it is technically a home game, Notre Dame has insisted on keeping all gate revenue from the games, and it will be difficult to consistently reach agreements with top-tier teams without agreeing to split the profits in some way. 
That said, if the administration is set on keep­ing the off-site home games in their current forms, this weekend is a perfect example of how to do it right. 
Notre Dame has a huge following in New York City, drawn largely from the previous 24 games the Irish have played at Yankee Stadium. While those games, 22 of which were against Army, were about the football — with the Irish and Black Knights consistently being top-five teams — this one is seen as an opportunity to bring the Notre Dame game day experience to New York. The band will still do its traditional “concert on the steps,” only this weekend it will be in the middle of Times 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
In Loco Parentis? 
The administration of Notre Dame never hesitates to heap praise upon itself for its vaunted policy of “in loco parentis.” Personally, I know it comforted my parents greatly when the concept was described to them before they left me a thousand miles from home freshman year. They were told that Notre Dame would act as their son’s parent in their absence; giving guidance, support and protection while also demanding disci­pline and accountability. 
Recent events have begun to shine a brighter light on a growing problem with the execution of the “in loco parentis” policy at Notre Dame. While the emphasis on discipline and accountability has increased, the other parental duties, espe­cially protection, have been grossly and tragically neglected. 
No parent would allow their child to operate a lift in the dangerous conditions that claimed Declan Sullivan’s life. If a student had died at a party or a tailgate, the University would have reacted swiftly and severely. They would not have waited for the results of an investigation to demand accountability from the people they deemed responsible. But, in the time since a student died on University property under the supervi­sion of members of the administration, no action has been taken other than the promise of an investigation which will no doubt absolve all members of the administration of any per­sonal responsibility. 
Of far less importance, but similarly indicative of the admin­istration’s failure as a parent, is the video from a tailgate last weekend that shows clear evidence of excessive police force on campus. No parent would allow hostile officers to repeated­ly intimidate and abuse their child, but the University has rou­tinely turned a blind eye to a local police force that is openly and admittedly hostile toward our students and alumni. This was only reinforced by Dennis Brown’s statement in response to the incident, which praised past cooperation with local law enforcement. 
To our administration: You are failing miserably in your self-imposed role as a parent. We, the students and alumni, have long noticed this gradual shift, and every time another inci­dent highlights these failures we grow more restless and upset. The response to these most recent incidents continues to show your preference for covering your own behind over protecting your students, and many people outside of the Golden Dome’s impenetrable wall of self-righteousness see this. If you, the leaders of our beloved Notre Dame, do not become more self-aware and begin to demand from your­selves the same level of accountability that you demand from those entrusted to your “care,” you risk losing this family that is so important to all of us. Please don’t let that happen. 
Jonathan Umpleby 
alumnus 
Class of 2006 
Nov. 17 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Never do anything when you are in a temper, for you will doeverything wrong.” 
Baltasar Gracián Spanish priest and author 

Square. 

Even though Army and Notre Dame aren’t the national power­houses they once were, both teams are still national brands with strong followings, and the venue of Yankee Stadium (even the new one) is one of the most hallowed in sports. 
This weekend shows how the administration can keep these games interesting even if they aren’t necessarily relevant on the national college football stage. Last year’s game against 
Washington State in San Antonio represented the worst-case scenario for games like this: a contest against an awful team in a seemingly random loca­tion. 
While a perfect off-site home game would probably have a top-10 opponent, this weekend is just about as good as it gets. It’s a high-profile primetime game 
that serves as a good reflection of Notre Dame’s tradition and why the Irish were able to play in these venues in the first place. 
This weekend, Notre Dame won’t become famous for using the forward pass and Brian Kelly won’t implore his team to “win one for the Gipper.” But the game still affords an opportunity for Notre Dame’s famous subway alumni to see an Irish team that hasn’t played a game in the five boroughs since 1969. This weekend is about honoring all the things that have made Notre Dame football the unique entity that it is, and that’s the way it should be. 


Fighting the wrong (magical) battle 
Although Catholics should admire the faith of Ryan Williams, his condemnation of Harry Potter (“The evil lurking in Harry Potter,” Nov. 18) preaches the kind of ignorant fear that enables people of an otherwise good will to malign the Church as a whole. Were J.K. Rowling’s best-selling fantasy series better understood by those who fear it, it would hardly appear to be dangerous or blasphemous. Many of the real textual examples that Mr. Williams could have cited would have painted a much less malevolent picture of the entertainment franchise. 
The protagonists of the Harry Potter series celebrate a very traditional Christmas. Harry receives critical guidance from his godfather. Death is treated with appropriate solemnity. Redemption and sacrifice are values, and love (cf. 1 John 4:16) is recognized as the ultimate power of the universe. Pagan and Satanic overtones seem more the domain of Voldemort and the Death Eaters — who are certainly not “the good guys.” 
Cardinal Francis Arinze recently stated that he had not actual­ly read any of the Harry Potter books, but that even with his con­cern, parents were ultimately responsible for making sure that their children do not blur the real world with the fictitious magi­cal one of Ms. Rowling’s books. Fantasy makes for a great stage on which an author can set the morality plays of reality. J.R.R. Tolkien and C.S. Lewis would likely agree. 
Indeed, Rowling has received no president’s Medal of Freedom, her literary merit is dubious, but it trivializes the real evil in the world to suggest that Notre Dame’s Harry Potter activ­ities are anything more insidious than youthful entertainment. Even and especially if President Obama’s involvement with the 2009 commencement really was such an outrage, we should be proud to celebrate the Boy Who Lived. 
Jeffrey Gerlomes 
freshman Duncan Hall Nov. 18 

Thoughts on the new Harry Potter movie? Write a Letter to the Editor. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“In literature as in love, we are astonished at what is chosen by others.” 
André Maurois French author 

The Observer 
View po in t
Friday, November 19, 2010 page 7 
Giving thanks for my bus stop characters 
Typically, the third week of November uneventfully passes as Americans adjust to the dark days inherent to standard time zones and prepare for Thanksgiving gatherings or the predawn chaos of Black Friday’s Christmas shopping season kickoff. We contemplate our reasons for giving thanks, but often­times mull through our daily routines without much of a reflection on our personal blessings until Thanksgiving Day abruptly arrives. In days long past, many at Notre Dame antici­pated the match-up with those evil Trojans of Southern California or the Detroit Lions and Dallas Cowboys tra­ditional Thursday gridiron clashes. Giving thanks had its place among our other events and festivities. 
This past week I was dragged into Thanksgiving reflections well before my usual routine with an unusually weird series of activities and charac­ters at my local bus stop. Just yester­day, I had no bus service when several blocks surrounding my glass shelter at the corner of Rhode Island Avenue and 14th Street were closed to investigate a suspicious package. It dawned on me during my walk to the subway exactly how starkly revealing the characters at Metro Bus Stop 1393 have been by pre­maturely shaking me to recognize the good works around me. 


While it rained one morning early this week, commuters stood under umbrellas exiled outside the bus shel­ter where a homeless man camped with his many plastic bags and strummed an imaginary guitar. He repeatedly sang, “Da-dum, da-dum, da-dum, da-dum, da-dum, da-dum, da­da, da-da, da-da.” The impromptu con­cert was too much for commuters to dare huddle with him in the glass enclosure, except for one — a federal employee commuter from a law enforcement agency as evidenced by the days he displays his badge on his lapel. 
The officer walked into the bus shel­ter, closed his umbrella and while standing close to the homeless man said, “Sounds like Pink Floyd to me.” The homeless man shook his head in disagreement without interrupting his repetitious arrangement. Finally, the shelter musician announced that he was playing cords that could be played with many types of songs including jazz arrangements, blues or hip-hop. The conversation ended when the bus arrived, but it was the event that sparked me to reflect on the officer’s other engagements with homeless per­sons at stop 1393. 
On two other occasions, I observed him walk up to a homeless person 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Who will be victorious? 
The Notre Dame-Army game has an unparalleled history. 

In 1913, unknown Notre Dame made news when it defeated powerhouse Army 35-13 with the forward pass, a little used gimmick perfected by quarterback Gus Dorais and his wide receiver Knute Rockne. Working as lifeguards at Cedar Point the previous summer, the two developed their new offense on the sands of Ohio’s northern shores. A key play was a long touchdown pass to Rockne, who had been faking a leg injury until the Army defense neglected to cover him altogether. 
In 1924, against a blue-gray October sky, celebrity sportswriter Grantland Rice penned his famous lines about Notre Dame’s defeat of Army behind an illustrious backfield — Stuhldreher, Miller, Crowley and Layden. These Four Horsemen led the team to the school’s first national championship. The $52,000 prize from the 1925 Rose Bowl, Notre Dame’s first bowl appearance, paid for the construction of Dillon Hall. The Irish’s trip to the West Coast led to the beginning of a rivalry with USC. 
In 1928, Notre Dame and Army were tied 0-0 at halftime. The team was having a down year and coach Knute Rockne sensed a need for motivation. He told his players the story of the greatest player he ever coached, who’s life was cut short by a tragic case of pneumonia. The Irish returned to the field determined to win one for the Gipper, and held off a last minute drive from the Cadets to preserve a 12-6 victory. 
In 1944 and 1945, Notre Dame lost to Army by a combined score of 107-0. Most of the stars of the 1943 Irish national championship team had enlisted in the military and were fighting overseas. Even Hall of Fame coach Frank Leahy joined the war effort, temporarily leaving his position to serve in the Navy. The younger players left behind struggled against the Cadets, but with the Allied vic­tory in late 1945, a loaded 1946 roster returned bent on payback. 
In 1946, No. 2 Notre Dame met No. 1 Army in Yankee Stadium in a “game of the century.” The matchup featured eight players who would be named All-Americans that season, as well as eventual Heisman Trophy winners Doc “Mr. Inside” Blanchard (Army), Glenn “Mr. Outside” Davis (Army) and Notre Dame’s Johnny Lujack. Lujack, the legendary T-formation quarterback, actually made the most famous play of his career on defense, toe-tackling Blanchard near the end zone to preserve a 0-0 tie. Coach Leahy wanted a touchdown so bad that he passed up a sure game-winning field goal chance — a decision that haunted him the rest of his career. Nonetheless, Notre Dame was voted No. 1 in the polls at the conclusion of the season, the school’s fifth national title. No meeting between Notre Dame and Army had ever meant so much — and none has compared since. With all their history on the line, the teams played to a scoreless tie. 
It’s 2010, and this Saturday the Fighting Irish and the Cadets meet again in Yankee Stadium. Is it the powerhouse matchup of ‘46? No, it’s not. Will the game played on the field reach the heights of the postwar classic? It probably won’t. But this is two of history’s biggest names on the biggest stage. This is Notre Dame vs. Army. This is college football. 
Lee Marsh 
alumnus 
Class of 2010 
Nov. 17 
slouched over on the shelter seat with a weary world’s belongings in tow. Each time he held out a $5 bill while saying, “Looks like you could use a cup of coffee.” Both times the homeless person just stared downward without a response. He repeated by holding the money lower in their lines of sight. Both grabbed the money and dragged their belongings off toward the Seven-Eleven. One said nothing, but the other sheepishly replied, “Thank you.” 
Last spring, my fellow commuter encountered a homeless woman chat­ting into the air about going to North Carolina and finding a new home. He held out another $5 bill and said, “Why don’t you get some warm soup before your trip?” She chatted that sometimes she smokes, but she promised not to buy cigarettes this time in favor of warm soup. Each morning for weeks after that initial North Carolina discus­sion, the bus shelter was her home base. 
Later that month she sported large sun glasses and a big floppy hat. The officer greeted her by noting, “You look like Greta Garbo today.” She replied, “You look like Clark Gable.” When he asked her why she wore sunglasses on an overcast morning, she removed them to reveal a swollen black and blue bruised face. “I ate something I’m allergic to,” she explained. “Do you think I can get some soup this morn­ing?” she asked. 
Mysteriously, she disappeared from the neighborhood throughout the sum­mer only to reappear again at our bus stop last week. This time, her face was deeply tanned and leathery wrinkled. I nearly did not recognize her, but our resident officer commuter greeted her with a barrage of questions and a $10 bill outstretched for her. I could see that he was thankful for her safe reemergence, and frankly, so was I. 
As official Thanksgiving Day nears next week when families gather to stuff themselves, I am more aware of my blessings this year. I am thankful for the successes hard work at Notre Dame has afforded me. I am also thankful for family, friends and health. But I am especially thankful for wit­nessing the many encounters of my fel­low commuter who engages everyone each morning, regardless of economic status or enslavement to smart phones. He has taught me how to better treat others. And this year, I better under­stand the genius behind, “Da-dum, da­dum, da-dum, da-dum, da-dum, da­dum, da-da, da-da, da-da.” 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs direc­tor in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Inclusion-Response spirit 
I would like to thank Alex Coccia for his viewpoint article (“Living up to the ‘Spirit of Inclusion’ at ND,” Nov. 17). Notre Dame, as a Catholic university, has the mission of upholding Jesus’ call to love thy neighbor as thyself, as well as Catholic Social Teaching, which upholds the intrinsic value and dignity of every human being, regardless of their sexual orientation. 
People like to wear those wristbands that say, “WWJD,” or “What Would Jesus Do,” and in this case, I think Jesus would say that Notre Dame needs to rethink its priorities. Rather than denying AllianceND, Notre Dame’s unofficial gay-straight alliance, official club status 14 times in a row, Notre Dame should recognize that a gay-straight alliance would foster intelligent discussion, understanding, tolerance, and love — all values that Jesus held as essential in how we treat our neighbor. 
Adding “sexual orientation” to the non-discrimination clause would symbolically and legally protect LGBT students from discrimination — protection they now do not have, and for which they suffer. Discrimination and hate crimes targeted at gay stu­dents happen at Notre Dame, and homophobia has become an unfortunate part of Notre Dame culture in dorm life, Frosh-O and daily interactions among students. The worst part about this culture of intolerance is that most students don’t realize it exists because it is so ingrained into every-day life. And just because it may not be inten­tional does not mean that it is any less hurtful to LGBT students, faculty and staff. 
Mr. Coccia made a lot of good points in his viewpoint, and if the University wants to live up to its mission of being a Catholic University that espouses the values of Jesus, it should pay attention to his suggestions. It’s high time we all put aside our precon­ceived notions and take a good look at the reality for LGBT students at Notre Dame. If we are truly dedicated to Catholic teaching, we have a lot of work cut out for us. 
Bridget Flores 
senior off campus Nov. 18 
No . . . He survived 
After reading Austin Holler’s ill-conceived and poorly researched “rebuttal” (“A rebuttal,” Nov. 17) regarding the current status of the honorable Falstad Wildhammer, we decided a rebuttal of our own was in order. Not only did Falstad survive, in fact he was the leader of Aerie Peak in Vanilla WOW through “Wrath of the Lich King.” Hopefully soon he will take his rightful place on the Council of Three Hammers and all will be right in the world ... of Warcraft. I look forward to discussing these complex issues with you in person at Blizzcon 2011. Until then, it looks like you could use another reading of “The Shattering.” 
Yours in Kaldorei, 
Dan Panzl and Jay Rowley 
seniors off campus Nov. 18 

page 8 Friday, November 19, 2010


will take in later books right from the time Trelawney peers into Harry’s teacup and spots the grim. We also get to meet arguably the coolest animal character: Buckbeak the Hippogriff. On the movie version end of things, Harry, make that the entire teenage cast, is having a bad hair year, but we’ll chalk it up to growing pains? Overall perhaps not the best translation acting wise, but mark that as growing pains as well. The development of the char­acter of Sirius Black from book to movie is not Gary Oldman’s best, and least not in this installment, and Harry’s confusion over what is going on is infectious to the audience. However it would be negligent to forget the performance of the newest Defense Against the Dark Arts teacher, dearest Remus Lupin! David Thewlis is con­sistently brilliant. 
And oh the sweet blossom of young love for Ron and Hermoine, especially in the movie, where we can see the awkward hand brushes and glances between them. Classic double meaning mix up when they’re in Hogsmead looking at the Shrieking Shack: 
“Did you want to move a bit closer?” 
“Huh?!” 
“I mean, to the castle.” 

The movie and book both highlight with a brilliant revelation of Sirius as the good guy, with the scene in the Shrieking Shack, even though the movie takes two hours to get there. From that fantastic scene the movie takes a downward spiral in the weird CGI battle between animangus Sirius and werewolf Professor Lupin, which is more comical than suspenseful. 
The third movie, for better or worse, gives us a great Dumbledore line, and one that should be remembered by all for the dreaded finals season, “Happiness can be found in the darkest of times, if one only remembers to turn on the light.” 
Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix 
Despite being the longest book in
By MAIJA GUSTIN 

the “Harry Potter” series, “The
Scene Writer 

Order of the Phoenix” is the short­
est film. After Mike Newell, direc­tor of “The Goblet of Fire,” declined an offer to direct the fifth film, Warner Bros. landed on the mostly-unknown David Yates. Up to that point, his most successful works were made-for-TV movies. Yates entered and immediately changed the tone of the films. 
Though the plot had darkened due to events in the last two films, specifically, the return of Lord Voldemort, Yates took that darkness farther than any of his predecessors and lay the background for the rest of the series, all of which he has directed. Unfortunately, many key elements of the book had to be cut. A wonderful Quidditch story line was nixed for later revival in the sixth film. Though Yates did manage to capture much of Harry’s inner turmoil, he missed the bit when Harry was a complete jerk through most of the book. Other minor, but key, details were left out in favor of a very specific over­arching narrative. Also missing is much of the warmth and familiar­ity that draw fans back to Hogwarts time and time again. 
That being said, Yates brought many wonderful new develop­ments to the Potter films. The last chunk of the film as the main 
Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince 
“Harry Potter and

By TROY MATHEW 

the Half-Blood Prince” 
Scene Writer 

is an exceedingly dark novel, which highlightsDEATHLY HALLOWS the increasing danger Harry and crew are under. The movie, directed by David Yates, dilutes this quality. Frequently referenced throughout the movie is the awkward relationship dynamic
FOUND!! 
between Harry, Ron, Hermione, and their respec­tive lovers. While some respite from the menacing storyline is necessary, this content is severely overused. 
The film also has some baffling edits and addi­tions. One is the seemingly unnecessary Death Eater attack on the Burrow. Not present in the book, this scene frustrated many a Potter-heads. 
The film cuts a large portion of the climatic final scene as well. In the novel, a dramatic battle ensues when Malfoy and company gain entrance to the castle. In the movie, this scene is absent. 
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban 
Ah the joys of book three, “The
By COURTNEY ECKERLE 

Prisoner of Azkaban.” Where 
Scene Writer 

Harry’s journey first begins to turn toward the darker path it 
Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets 
Harry Potter and the
By ROSS FINNEY 
Chamber of Secrets is a 
Scene Writer 
very faithful adaptation 
of the book. There are only a couple minor differences, and these don’t detract drastically from the movie. The scene from the book where Harry sees Draco and his father in Knockturn Alley is noticeably absent from the movie. Given the importance of the scene later in the story, it’s kind of surprising, but the movie is still easy to follow. 
The most notable differences is the effect of the Polyjuice Potion, which in the book gives Harry and Ron the voices of Crabbe and Goyle. In the movie their voices don’t change, but it sets up some laughs when Harry and Ron have to fake the voices. 
The downside to the film’s faithfulness to the book is its excessive length. Coming in at close to three hours, the film tends to drag on, and can be hard to finish unless you are really dedicated. 
There are scenes where the kids’ acting is hard to watch, but this is true for the first few movies. The supporting cast of teachers and adults is stellar as always. 
In other regards, the movie is very good. The sets are fantastic and the overall tone is darker than that of the first film. It’s more dramatic, and the visual and music cues all come together very well. 
H
arr
y P
otter and theG
oblet of F
ir
e

D
c
t
o
rM
i
k
N
w
e
lc
B
y MARISSA FROBES
k
l
H
yP
ot
e
r
a
nd
Scene
W
riter
h
G
b
l
t
of
F
r
e
i
n
2
0
5
.
I
f
o
u
r-
i
gh
e
s
tn
g
l
m
of
th
r
i
e
s
six
moremovies
(now
seven,with
the
final
book
splitinto
,
i
gh
yf
V
l
d
m
o’
et
u
r
s
a
n
two parts).
v
e
z
gwd
.W
h
rf
u
l
,a
c
t
i
o
n-
That
being
said,the
slavishlyfa
ithful
a
daptation
does
k
sQ
c
W
o
l
C
pad
u
r
i
n
gth
e
gof
l
s
,ath
x
pr
n
c
ek
i
d
ub
t
m
e
w
z
a
rd
i
n
g
c
h
o
l
s
,
actorsand
rushed
CGI
job
probablycould
have
benefited
l
a
x
c
m
.
I
f
n
r
s
w
i
th
e
from
ashorter
film
with
fewer
scenes.
The
later
movies,
m
prf
c
sb
w
go
ad
v
l
i
nth
e
freed
upbecause
theydon’
thave
toestablish
backstory
,
z
w
l
,
v
c
pn
gf
i
s
m
j
o
rd
e
ath
m
u
c
h
b
d
k
R
w
l
g’
s
r
a
v
e
i
nt
o
f
t
:
(S
P
O
I
R
A
L
E
RT
!
)
C
c
D
i
go
y.T
h
s
ed
a
rk-
somethingsuitable
for
screenwhile
still
retainingthe
m
pb
l
yo
a
nd
h
e’
f
i
r
st
spirit of the books.
P
G-
1
3
r
at
i
n
g
.A
d

gf
ub
k
nh
H
a

yP
oti
s

pr
e

-c
utk
f
v
.C
o
n
si
d
e
r
ab
l
yg
f
vl
,n
wi
e
r
sh
ad
o
c
u
tu
c
a
pl
n
gth
vi
ef
r
o
mr
l
.T
yd
w
,f
c
u
si
go
nth
ez
T
r
n
,w
c
yh
i
mt
o
ad
u
e

U
D
lw
V
o
u
cd
.T
h
mi
tl
f
e
r
s
a
n“
A-
,
”-“B-”
d
a
pf
r
mJ
K
R
wl
i
n’
sb
k
.T
o
u
gth
el
h
eb
k
f
u
s
n
,i
t
c
o
m-

MBLE
O
D
E
R
p
l
d
H
m
n’
s
wh
P
E
W
.(S
ci
et
yf
o
rP
mE
vh
W

)
,f
l
si
c

po
rt
e
a
n

yh
D
r
e
ud
w
s
gf
i
c
atl
yo
n
H
y/
(
,S
ri
u’
d
e
ath
l
o
m
s!
)
.
S
D
IE
characters battle evil Death Eaters in the Ministry of Magic is stun-Also, Dumbledore’s poignant present in the novel ning and easily the most exciting action sequence in any of the films is cut out. Instead, the students raise their wands thus far. Yates earns bonus points for casting some of the best char-to dissipate the Dark Mark, in an incredibly lame 
acters of the films, notably Imelda Staunton as the pink-and-bubbly-and cheesy fashion. yet-evil Dolores Umbridge and the superb Helena Bonham Carter as While it disappoints as a book adaptation, Harry the maniacally evil Bellatrix Lestrange. Potter and the Half-Blood Prince is a great movie. 
The film is visually stunning, and the main cast has matured into high quality actors. 
GASPAR GARCIA DE PAREDES | Observer Graphic 
page 9 


GASPAR GARCIA DE PAREDES | Observer Graphic 
page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Friday, November 19, 2010 
MLB 

Hernandez wins Cy Young 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — For once, Felix Hernandez got all the support he needed for a big win. 
The Seattle ace earned the AL Cy Young Award on Thursday despite a modest 13-12 record. His major league-leading 2.27 ERA and superior stats put him far ahead of Tampa Bay’s David Price and the Yankees’ CC Sabathia and their impressive win-loss numbers. 
Victimized by the Mariners’ poor hitting all season, Hernandez found ample backing with the voters in this pitchers’ duel. They clearly recognized how little the last-place Mariners helped him—in 10 starts, they were either shut out or held to one run. 
“This confirms the Cy Young is an award not only for the pitcher with the most wins, but the most dominant,” a teary-eyed Hernandez said while celebrat­ing with relatives at the family home in Valencia, Venezuela. 
King Felix got 21 of the 28 first-place votes and 167 points in balloting by the Baseball Writers’ Association of America. The 24-year-old right-hander led the league in innings (249 2-3), was second in strikeouts (232) and held AL opponents to the lowest batting average (.212). 
Price, who went 19-6 with a 
2.72 
ERA, was second with four first-place votes and 111 points. Sabathia, who was 21-7 with a 

3.18 
ERA, drew the other three first-place votes and finished third at 102. 


“I feel like they got it right,” Price said on a conference call from Nashville, Tenn. “Felix, I thought he deserved it, even though he didn’t have a lot of wins. You can’t really control all that. You can’t control the offense, and the hitters and stuff like that.” 
“The numbers he put up— those were pretty ridiculous numbers outside of the won-loss column,” he said. “I feel as if Felix was on a different team— if he was on the Yankees or something like that—he’s going to win quite a few ballgames.” 
The 13 wins by Hernandez marked the fewest for a Cy Young starter in a full season— Tim Lincecum set the record last year with 15 victories for San Francisco. 
Fernando Valenzuela won the NL award in strike-shortened 1981 after going 13-7. His mark of six games over .500 had been the lowest for any Cy starter until Hernandez. 
“It’s not only the wins, it’s the whole stats,” Hernandez said. 
A month after the All-Star break, Hernandez appeared to be a long shot for the award. 


He was 8-10 on Aug. 15 after 26 starts, but a debate had already begun to brew about his Cy Young candidacy. Many fans who rely more traditional num­bers— win-loss record for pitch­ers—didn’t think he rated at the top of the list. 
Others who count on baseball’s newer math pointed at how well Hernandez had done on the things he could fully command. He led AL pitchers in a stat that matters a lot to the sabermetri­cians of the sport—Wins Above Replacement. 
Once the season ended, Hernandez started hoping. 
“I didn’t have the wins,” he said. “But if you look at all the numbers … wow!”’ 
Hernandez thought he would get the Cy last year, too, after winning 19 games but finished second, beaten out by Zack Greinke16 victories and better showing with other numerology. 
But no more sighs for Hernandez now. In the Year of the Pitcher, and in the voting for the 100th overall Cy Young Award, he came out No. 1. 
“This is the first of many,” he said. “Now I have to work even harder because I’m the best pitcher in the American League.” 
Hernandez said he started cry­ing when he got the award and his family began jumping around. 
“It was a great, great, great, amazing feeling,” he said. 
The Mariners finished with an AL-worst 61-101 record and their 513 runs were by far the fewest in the majors. They gave him barely more than three runs to work with each game and weren’t too sharp in the field, either—in his 34 starts, he got saddled with 17 unearned runs. 

“They tried to do too much for me. I love my teammates,” he said. “They would tell me, ‘You did your job.”’ 
Hernandez might’ve ranked even higher overall had the Mariners decided not to skip his regular start on the final day of the regular season. He needed one more inning to match NL Cy Young winner Roy Halladay for most in the majors, and he fin­ished one strikeout behind AL leader Jered Weaver of the Angels. 
Halladay unanimously won his award in a year he led the NL with 21 wins, pitched a perfect game and a no-hitter, and topped the majors in shutouts and complete games. 
“Obviously, Felix’s numbers are very, very impressive,” Halladay said earlier this week when asked about the AL Cy Young vote. “Ultimately, you look at how guys are able to win games. Sometimes, you find a way to win games,” he said. 
Hernandez said he felt vindi­cated that wins are only part of the equation. 
“This is the proof,” he said. 
Hernandez went 7-4 against playoff teams and was at his best against the high-scoring Yankees, going 3-0 while holding New York to one run in 26 innings with 31 strikeouts. 
Sabathia and Price each led strong staffs that pitched their teams into the playoffs. Both aces went 3-2 against teams that reached the postseason. Sabathia was listed on all 28 bal­lots, Price on 27. 
NBA 

Former No. 1 pick Oden out for season 
Associated Press 

PORTLAND, Ore. — For the third time in four years, Greg Oden’s knees have betrayed him. 
The Portland Trail Blazers hastily called a press conference Wednesday night to announce that Oden, the No. 1 pick in the 2007 draft, will miss the season after he has microfracture sur­gery on his left knee. 
Oden’s rookie year was post­poned because of similar surgery on his right knee, and last season he broke his left kneecap early in December and again required surgery. 
He was still rehabbing when the latest problem was discovered. 
“As you can expect, this young man is devastated about not hav­ing the opportunity to play this season, being so close to getting back on the floor and just all of a sudden, this situation comes up and it’s like, here we go again for him,” Portland coach Nate McMillan said. 
Oden’s latest surgery is sched­uled for Friday in Vail, Colo. The microfracture procedure will repair damaged cartilage that is not related to the kneecap injury, the team said. 
Blazers trainer Jay Jensen said the latest problem with Oden’s knee became apparent about two weeks ago when he experienced some pain and fluid in the joint. Soon thereafter, an MRI revealed the damage. 
“We sat there and it was like we’d been kicked in the stomach,” Jensen said, choking up. “It felt like hearing someone close to us had died.” 
The 22-year-old Oden has often has been compared to former Portland center Sam Bowie, whom the Blazers famously selected in front of Michael Jordan in the 1984 draft. The Blazers picked Oden instead of Kevin Durant, who went to the Oklahoma City franchise and has blossomed into one of the NBA’s best players. 
Another Portland big man, Bill Walton, was selected by the Blazers with the No. 1 pick in the 1974 draft, but he was dogged by a broken nose, foot, wrist and leg over his first two seasons before helping the team to the NBA championship in 1977. 
Oden has seemingly been cursed since shortly before his rookie season, when trouble in his right knee prompted surgery the first time. 
He showed promise the next season when he played in 61 games, averaging 8.9 points and seven rebounds. 
But he really began to blossom last season when he became a starter and was averaging 11.7 points, 8.8 rebounds and 2.4 blocks in that role. Then he was hurt in a game against Houston, crashing to the floor with his kneecap visibly contorted. 
Oden had just started easing into practices when the latest knee issue was discovered. He has played in only 82 games dur­ing his NBA career, missing 176. 
Jensen said it was unclear what caused the latest damage. 
The Blazers announced last month they would not offer Oden a contract extension. He was the first No. 1 pick since Kwame Brown not to get one at the end of his rookie contract. 
Oden will be a restricted free agent next summer and Portland will be able to match any offers for him. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

If you or someone you care about Italy -Fiorentina at AC Milan has been sexually assaulted, we 2:30 pm Fox Soccer WANTED FOR SALE FOR RENT PERSONAL can help. For more information, visit 
Notre Dame's website: SUNDAY 
GREAT LOCATION: House for http://csap.nd.edu LACROSSE OFFICIALS/ sale/rent on Angela. Housing available for next school UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? ——————————————— NFL: COACHES NEEDED: 2.5K sq ft home. 4BR 3.5BA. year. Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has Sports to watch this weekend Green Bay at Minnesota Local HS/Youth teams looking for Purchase price of $347,500. many resources in place to assist SATURDAY 1:00 pm FOX former players interested in officiat-2 to 5 bedroom homes. you. If you or someone you love NCAA FOOTBALL: Indianapolis at New England ing and/or coaching. Perfect rental for faculty/staff Close to campus. needs confidential support or assis-Ohio State at Iowa 3:30 pm 4:15 pm CBS 
$1,250 per month plus utilities. tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at ABC New York Giants at Philadelphia Compensation is tbd. Good rates and good landlord. 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. USC at Oregon State 8 pm ABC 8:20 NBC 
Call 574-232-2211. For more information, visit ND's SOCCER: MLS CHAMPIONSHIP: Please contact Mike Williams at Photos available on the web at Leasing now. website at: http://pregnancysup-Tottenham at Arsenal 7:30 am Colorado Rapids vs. FC Dallas, mwilliams@saintjoelacrosse.com 610.sbrp.us 574-276-2333 port@nd.edu ESPN2 8:30 pm ESPN ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Friday, November 19, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
MLB 

Selig’s playoff expansion plan sees little opposition 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. — Commissioner Bud Selig’s plan to expand baseball’s playoffs to 10 teams seemed inevitable after little to no opposition emerged during meetings this week with owners and general managers. 
Because baseball’s labor con­tract runs to December 2011, the extra round of playoffs is not likely to start until 2012. 
Selig said his special 14-man committee will discuss adding two wild-card teams when it meets Dec. 7 during the winter meetings in nearby Lake Buena Vista. 
“We will move ahead, and move ahead pretty quickly,” Selig said Thursday after three days of meetings concluded. 
A change would have to be approved by owners, who next meet Jan. 12-13 in Paradise Valley, Ariz., and by the players’ association, which has said it is open to the extra round. The additional games also would have to be sold to baseball’s national television partners and slotted into a crowded schedule that already has pushed the World Series into November in the past two years. 
“I’m not going to rule out any­thing,” Selig said. “We’ll just proceed and whatever we decide, then we’ll just see how fast we can get it done. Once we pass something, I’m always anx­ious to get it done.” 

Selig’s committee includes managers Tony La Russa, Jim Leyland and Mike Scioscia, and former manager Joe Torre. 
There would be two wild-card teams in each league, and the wild-card teams would meet to determine which advances to division series with the three first-place teams in each league. 
“I think it’s definitely worth looking at. I have no problem with that,” Yankees co-owner Hank Steinbrenner said. 
Some would have the new round be best-of-three, and oth­ers would have it as a one-game winner-take-all. The mechanics appear to be at issue more than the concept. 

“I pretty much know where all the constituencies are now,” Selig said. “Eight is a very fair number but so is 10.” 
Before leaving the meeting, Texas Rangers presi­dent Nolan Ryan agreed with the premise that the extra round of playoffs was more a matter of how than if. 
“I think that’s right,” he said. 
Baseball doubled its postsea­son teams to four in 1969 and again to eight in 1995, a year later than intended because of a players’ strike that wiped out the 1994 World Series. The vote to first add wild cards took place in September 1993. 
“I got ripped and torn apart, and it was pretty bad,” Selig said. “If I had defiled mother­hood I don’t think I could have gotten ripped any more than I did. But now it’s fascinating to me. Now they not only like it so much, they want more of it.” 
The regular-season schedule will almost certainly not be reduced from 162 games. 
“There’s not much interest in that,” he said. 
Selig’s committee also will dis­cuss whether to expand video review of umpires’ calls, which began in August 2008. Its use has been limited to whether potential home runs went over fences and were fair or foul. 
“It doesn’t hurt to expand it some and have it for a few other things, like plays at first base,” Steinbrenner said. “I’ve always been for as much instant replay as you can get in a sport. The NFL, at least, has that right.” 

Selig has said he’s against an expansion but willing to consid­er it. 
“There are opinions every­where on that,” he said. “Managers have opinions. General managers have opin­ions. Owners have opinions. I want to hear them all and look at them.” 
A consensus also appeared to have developed to propose a slotting system for amateur draft picks and possibly a world­wide draft when collective bar­gaining begins next year. 
While there is a sense the NFL, the NBA and the NHL could be headed for labor strife, baseball players and owners anticipate stoppage-free bar­gaining. Baseball hasn’t had a strike or lockout since the 7 1/2 -month walkout in 1994-95, and Selig termed current dealings with the union “a constructive relationship.” 
“Nobody ever could have dreamed we’d have 16 years of labor peace,” Selig said. “In American labor history, as I someday will say if I ever get around to writing my book, it probably was as bad a relation­ship as ever existed. 


page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, November 19, 2010 
SMC SWIMMING 
Short-handed Belles are backinactioninPhoenix 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
After taking almost a month off, the Belles will head to the University of Chicago to compete in the Phoenix Fall Classic this weekend. 
Belles coach Mark Benishek said his team has a small roster. 
“We have had some health issues within the last week and a half,” Benishek said. “We have a small roster. We need to stay healthy the rest of the way and we will get the positive results we are hoping for.” 
The Belles had a strong 
opening to the season at Notre Dame’s Dennis Stark Relays, finishing fourth behind three Division I teams, including Notre Dame. 
“At the Stark Relays we all used our nerves to our advantage, ” junior Katie Donovan said. “We had been working hard and were con­fident in our abilities individ­ually and as a team. It was the first time this team got to experience a meet together, so we all used our excitement to help us get going.” 
With the small numbers on the team, Benishek said the Belles are spending a lot of time in the pool getting expe­rience in different races. 
“The team has really come together this year,” Donovan said. “We are smaller in numbers this year so we all know each other well and know what kind of support and challenges we need from one another. Practicing hard together in the pool, crank­ing out some fast times, and occasionally changing things up with teamwork activities have all maintained a positive outlook on the rest of the season.” 
Benishek said he hopes the hard work will pay off this weekend in the Windy City, as he chose to take the team to the University of Chicago Invitational because of the many quick teams that will be competing. 
“We wanted to set that bar high,” Benishek said. “We were between this invitation­al and one in Indianapolis. We chose the quicker meet to get the girls to step up to the plate.” 
Saint Mary’s will dive into competition tonight with a 6 
p.m. meet start. The event will continue Saturday and Sunday with 10 a.m. sched­uled starting times. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba01@saintmarys.edu 

Diggins 
continued from page 16 
offense with 22 points, followed closely by junior guard Natalie Novosel, who scored 19 points. 
“We were able to rally together,” Novosel said. “We were able to stop their game as well.” 
It looked like the Irish would pull away with the win at the end of regulation time, but a three-pointer from UCLA forward Christina Nzekwe tied up the game. 
Notre Dame was also in a good position heading into the end of the first overtime as a basket from Novosel put the Irish up 79-77. 
With the Irish down by one point and 19 seconds left, Diggins at point guard and the Irish wait­ed out the shot clock in order to set up one final play and take the game. As Novosel attempted a shot, she was fouled and missed both free throws to end the first overtime. 
The Bruins suppressed the Irish offensive drive well in the first half, as they maintained the lead for most of the first 20 minutes of play. 
“I thought we shot ourselves in the foot in the first half,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
Forward Jasmine Dixon led Bruins scoring with 21 points, fol­lowed by guard Darxia Morris with 14. UCLA headed into half­time with a 41-37 lead. 
“We hit adversity, we stood together, nobody had negative talk. We kept encouraging each other. We knew we needed boxing out, rebounds and make our layups to win the game, and we did that,” Morris said. 
The Irish started to take over on the court at the beginning of the second half, with a three-pointer from Notre Dame freshman guard Kayla McBride that finally evened the score up for the first time since six minutes into the game. They tossed the lead back and fourth for the rest of the game. 
“When we got the lead, we did-n’t make a defensive stand,” McGraw said. 
Defensively, senior forward Becca Bruszewski, with her third career double-double against the Bruins, raked in a career high 13 rebounds for the Irish. Bruszewski fouled out in the second overtime. 
Senior guard Brittany Mallory left the game during the first half due to an ankle injury. She returned to the game with five minutes remaining in regulation time with her ankle taped and on crutches. 
“We looked really young, and not having Brittany in the game, we’re going to look young. She’s definitely the calming force on our team, and it hurt not having her there,” McGraw said. “She the common force on our team, and we really hurt not having her in there.” 


McGraw said she is not sure on Mallory’s health yet, but they will know soon whether the injury is serious. 
“We didn’t use the bench as much as we have. It was hard to take Skylar out with Brittany on the bench,” McGraw said. 
This game was only the first of the more competitive games for the Irish that are still to come on the schedule. 
“Being a young team, we have to have a short term memory,” Diggins said. 
The Irish will travel to Lexington, Ky. Sunday to take of 
the  University  of  Kentucky  
Wildcats  at  the  Memorial  
Coliseum.  

Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

Friday, November 19, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 


Rivalry 
continued from page 16 
our programs are probably the two most storied pro ­grams in the country,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. 
The Tar Heels, who enter the tournament as defending champions, are led by their explosive front line of junior Courtney Jones and freshmen Crystal Dunn and Kealia Ohai. The three forwards have scored 11, 8 and 14 goals, respectively, on the year. 
“That tandem of three for­wards they’ve got there is very, very good and probably as good as any in the coun­try.” Waldrum said. “If we can contain and shut them down, I think that’s the strength of their team. I think it’s key that we keep those three players in check.” 
While the Irish have lost their previous three battles with the Tar Heels, Notre Dame is one of the few pro­grams in the country that has risen to the occasion against North Carolina on their home field, winning three out of four games at Fetzer Field, something that is not lost on Waldrum. 
“I don’t know how to explain it, I really don’t,” Waldrum said. “It seems like we’ve always done well when we’ve gone there, and I think we’re one of the only teams that’s beaten them there on multiple occasions. There’s just something about it — I think our kids just get psy­ched and get ready to play when they arrive on campus, so hopefully they’ll do that again Saturday because we’re [going to] need a good per­formance. I think if we play like we did this weekend and put that kind of effort in we’ll be in really good shape.” 

The Irish are coming off dominant performances in the first two rounds of the tournament, outscoring New Mexico and No. 22 USC by a combined score of 7-0. They used that momentum to have another strong week of prac­tice and prepare for their rivals once again. 
“The energy level in the training was great again this week,” Waldrum said. “I think after that loss to Connecticut that seemed to really re-energize the team and get the team realizing that we’ve [got to] go perform every time we step on the field and those two weeks that we were preparing for New Mexico and USC were probably two of the best weeks of practice we had and then this week the kids were right back at it with a very high level in training again. 
“I think we’ve prepared as well as we can for them, and we’ve watched a ton of video on them,” Waldrum contin­ued. “I think we know their team pretty well, so I think now it’s just roll the ball out and see which one’s ready to go.” 
The Irish and Tar Heels will kickoff at 5 p.m. Saturday at Fetzer Field in Chapel Hill. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 

FENCING 
Irish travel to face nation’s best 
By MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
The No. 1 Irish will travel to Milwaukee this weekend to com­pete in the United States Fencing Association’s North American Cup Nov. 19-22 in hopes of proving themselves once again the nation’s top team. 
The North American Cup tra­ditionally is one of the strongest fields of competitors in the coun­try, and although Notre Dame will not compete as a team, they will have several individuals competing in this year’s compe­tition. The tournament’s results will not affect the collegiate rankings, but it will give Notre Dame the opportunity to prove their excellence across the divi­sion weapons. 
The Irish are coming off of a weekend-long competition at No. 2 Penn State last weekend where sophomore Reggie Bentley earned a bronze medal in the men’s foil competition and junior Ewa Nelip finished 29th of 136 competitors. Freshman Lian Osler (women’s sabre) and junior Greg Schoolcraft (men’s epee) both finished fourth in their respective weapons. 
Notre Dame made a strong standing at the Cup last year as sophomore Courtney Hurley fin­ished 13th in a field of 168 com­petitors in the epee division. Her sister, Kelley, a 2010 graduate who went on to win the gold, eliminated Hurley from the com­petition. Now that her familial foe is no longer in the competi­tion, the Irish will look to Hurley to make a run at the gold. 

In the FIE World Championships in Paris earlier this month, Hurley took 61st of 136 competitors. It was also announced at the World Championships that she won the World Cup Trophy for the best junior epeeist during the 2009­10 season. 
Junior Diane Zielinski took 70th in the North American Cup last year in the women’s epee while sophomore James Kaull finished an impressive 33rd of 211 competitors in the men’s. 
Competition will begin today and continue until Nov. 22. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, November 19, 2010 
Brown 
continued from page 16 
back to health. We feel good as a team.” 
Historically, the Irish have dominated Villanova. Notre Dame was victorious in each 
of the first 16 meetings between the two squads, but have since lost three of the last four matches. 
Notre Dame last faced Villanova on Nov. 5, when the Irish fell in four games to the Wildcats, which was the team’s final Big East loss of the year. After a furious come­back to win the first set, the Irish dropped the final three to fall (3-1 (23-25, 26-24, 26­24, 25 -18) on Villanova’s home court. 
Although Villanova scored a convincing victory in the first meeting, Brown said the Irish had room to improve. 
“In our first meeting, we didn’t feel like we played our best,” she said. “There are definitely things we can do to improve the result.” 
The game was marked by an outstanding performance by junior outside hitter Kristen Dealy who, along with 12 kills, recorded 34 digs, a career high and the most by an Irish player since 2006. However, the Irish offense was blocked, hitting only .131 for the game. 
Brown said her team is prepped to make adjustments to take down the Wildcats this time around. 
“We played really good defense but just not generate offense, specifically transition offense,” Brown said. “We focused on improving those elements of our game, and we feel like we got a lot better.” 
A postseason berth for Notre Dame hangs in the balance of the Big East tournament as the winner of the Big East tournament receives an auto­matic bid to the NCAA tourna­ment. 
When asked what her team needed to do in the Big East tournament to qualify for the NCAA’s, Brown’s response was automatic. 
“I think we need to win it,” she said. 
The Irish and the Wildcats face off today at 10 a.m. in the Fitzgerald Field House at the University of Pittsburgh. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 

Irish 
continued from page 16 
in the Big East tournament semi­finals to No. 1 Louisville. Notre Dame played well in the loss and moved up in the polls despite the loss to the powerhouse Cardinals. Though the bitter loss is still fresh, Clark said the Irish need no extra redemption. 
“I think they’ll be ready. We’ve been ready since this time last year, when we lost to Northwestern in the tourna­ment,” Clark said. “That was a learning experience. That was a tough game for us. We outshot them in shots on target 12 to 3, but lost 3-0. This group is totally aware of the task ahead of them.” 
Strong seniors lead both teams with Dartmouth featuring senior midfielder Daniel Keat, a brilliant passer who has drawn interest from the English Premier League team Blackburn Rovers during his brief professional career in New Zealand. The Irish will count on the goal scoring of senior for­ward Steven Perry, whose 12 goals were the most for any Big East player this season. 
“Our seniors have set the right example all year,” Clark said. “I’m confident they’ll carry that leadership into this game.” 
Due to their high seed, the Irish will get the opportunity to host the second-round game at the friendly confines of Alumni Stadium, where they have played well all season. 
The Irish are 9-1-1 at home this year, and the new student section — the Rakes of Mallow — has contributed to a tough atmos­phere in many of the home games. Clark said he is counting on the students to show up and support the team Sunday. 

“I really would just love to have a full student contingent on Sunday, and I know the players would too,” Clark said. “It’s great to have the people in town come and cheer but I know that the students tend to make a lot more noise. It’s a rare opportunity, with this tournament being played around Thanksgiving, that the students are on campus. I would say to all those on campus who play soccer, and all the others of course, to come out and cheer the guys on.” 
The second-round game will be contested Sunday at 6 p.m. at Alumni Stadium. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
Spartans 
continued from page 16 
night.” 
But if Notre Dame does get caught with a lack of focus, the Spartans could turn the tables on the Irish in a hurry. 
“They’re tenacious. They play hard and they’re a pret­ty good transition team, so you have to be really smart with the puck against them,” Jackson said. “They’re going to take advantage, get you into situations where you turn the puck over and then they transition well.” 
Jackson said the home games will be crucial for his squad to stay atop the con­ference. 
“It’s absolutely essential that we play well at home,” he said. “We’ve done well at home thus far, and we have to continue to recognize that it’s going to be a challenge all season long no matter who you play … if we don’t do a great job in our own building then it becomes more chal­lenging. You have to take care of the business at home if you’re going to be a top team.” 

The Irish make their only November home appearances this Friday and Saturday. The puck drops at 7:35 p.m. Friday night and 5:05 p.m Saturday evening. 

Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 




1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  14  
15  16  
17  18  
19  20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  27  
28  29  30  31  
32  33  34  
35  36  37  38  39  
40  41  42  43  44  
45  46  47  48  49  50  
51  52  53  54  
55  56  57  58  
59  60  61  62  63  
64  65  
66  67  

Friday, November 19, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD 
Across 34 “___ Mine” (track 1 Party bowlful on “Let It Be”) 
with zing 35 Total bore 9 Joint 
38 Large pieces of 
15 “No problem!” cabbage?16 Bad way to carry 
40 Humana something offering, briefly 17 Pitchman who 41 Unlike a type A 
said “It has more seats than the 45 Letters for Astrodome!” enlistees' letters 
18 Peripheral, e.g. 46 “The Lamp­19 They may be Lighter” painter 
fluid: Abbr. 47 ___ Spring20 Covenants 
51 Solidified 22 ___ Prairie,
Minn. 53 Relative of “Apt.” 23 Sporty ride 54 Paradigm of 26 Its final piety, in production was Pamplonareleased in 1959 55 Have down 27 Cat of comics 
56 In the middle 28 One of the 
58 English Home Counties composer/pianist29 Thing picked up Lordat a water cooler 
31 Year China's 59 Pitcher Lopez or Liang dynasty Vazquez began 
61 “No problem!” 
32 Part of some cultural nights 64 Port named for a out Norse god 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

65 Setting for halfof Chopin's 24preludes 
66 Thrust oneself heedlessly 
67 Flimflams 
Down 
1 “I swear!” 2 With 6-Down,gets bombed 3 Parts of manyrole-playing games 4 Technology for“Avatar,” e.g.:
Abbr. 5 Noel syllables 6 See 2-Down 7 He had 
Atahualpa
executed 8 High-hat9 They're normal:Abbr. 
10 “Hop-Frog”writer 
11 Flame 
12 Controversial O. 
J. Simpson book 13 Camera hog's concern 14 Fans may beworked into them 21 One with an 
extra-wide spine 
24 Half of oct­
25 Let out, in a way 
27 Crick who co-
discovered DNA's structure 
30 Cousin of a blackfish 
33 Eddie who inspired “TheFrench Connection” 

EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

WILL SHORTZ 
Puzzle by Peter Wentz  
35 Nut  44 Cause for an  56 Ebenezer  
36 South-of-the­border snack 37 Grabbed the reins  alarm 48 What only a select few mightget  Scrooge'snephew 57 Noted reader of headlines  
39 Soup thickener 42 Childish  49 Person firing alocomotive  60 Official conclusion?  
rejoinder  50 Uses cajolery on  62 ___-hoo  
43 Many went bustafter booming  52 1992 Dream Team member  63 Nickname for Dwight Gooden  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports
Friday, November 19, 2010 page 16 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Just short 
Irish fall to No. 15 UCLA in double OT 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
Sophomore guard Skylar Diggins’ half-court shot at the buzzer of Thursday night’s sec­ond overtime hit the rim, but bounced out as the Irish fell 86­83 to UCLA at the Purcell Pavilion in the fourth double overtime game in program his­tory. 
“With three seconds left, I was just trying to get the ball up the court,” Diggins said. “I thought it was going in. It’s all we had.” 
No. 12 Notre Dame’s last dou­ble overtime game was in a win 13 years ago against the No. 15 Bruins (3-0) in Los Angeles. The only games that have extended that far beyond regu­lation for UCLA have been these two contests against the Irish. 

Diggins led the Irish (2-1) GRANT TOBIN/The Observer 
Irish guard Skylar Diggins breaks away from an UCLA defender Thursday night in a showdown at the see DIGGINS/page 12 Purcell Pavilion. Notre Dame fell 86-83 to UCLA in double overtime. 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
Conference title quest kicks off 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will take on Villanova today at the University of Pittsburgh in the first round of the Big East Championship, with postsea­son hopes on the line. 
The Irish are seeded fifth while the Wildcats hold the four seed. 
The team is coming off a successful last weekend of play, where it swept through its final two Big East oppo­nents, Rutgers and Seton Hall. Irish coach Debbie Brown said she believes her team is looking strong going into the conference championship. 
“We have been in a good rhythm,” she said. “We have executed well, performed well statistically, and our injured players have been nursed 
see BROWN/page 14 

HOCKEY 

Spartans provide only home opponent of November 
including a tough 2-3 decision The contest against the standings, is considered by ahead of them (a pair of
By ALLAN JOSEPH 

at Bowling Green. Spartans (4 -3-3, 2-3-1-0 most CCHA observers to be a games at North Dakota Nov. 
Sports Writer 

Rather than coming home to CCHA) will have significant significant threat to the top of 26-27), the young Irish squad a respite, however, the Irish implications on the CCHA the league. will have to focus on the task 
The No. 11 Irish return to will take on No. 17 Michigan standings, atop which the “They were expected to be a at hand. Ridderwall doesn’t the friendly confines of the State in what will be Notre Irish currently sit. top-four team in our confer-see that being an issue for his Joyce Center this weekend Dame’s only two home games “It doesn’t really mean ence,” Irish coach Jeff teammates. after a five-game road trip between Oct. 29 and Dec. 11. much, but I can see as a Jackson said. “It’s still so early “I think coming into this that returned mixed results. “It’s always fun to play in younger guy it’s nice to see in the year you don’t know weekend, [the freshmen have] 
Notre Dame (7-3-1, 5-2-1-1 the JACC in front of your that you’re up there,” how things are going to pan had enough games in their CCHA) won two games, includ-home fans,” senior alternate Ridderwall said. “It’s just a lit-out, but I fully expect them to bag,” he said. “They know ing a hard-earned 3-1 victory captain Calle Ridderwall said. tle bit of a mental thing seeing be in the hunt for a top four what to expect and know what at No. 8/9 Michigan, tied one “It feels like we’ve been gone your name on top.” spot.” level we have to play at every game (picking up the shootout for a while so it’s definitely Michigan State, though cur-With arguably the toughest point) and dropped two, exciting.” rently in eighth in the league road trip in college hockey see SPARTANS/page 14 
MEN’S SOCCER 
NCAA opener features foe familiar to Clark 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
From 1985 to 1993, Irish coach Bobby Clark bled green as the head coach at Dartmouth. On Sunday, the Big Green will line up opposite Clark’s No. 9 Notre Dame squad as the Irish begin their NCAA tournament slate at Alumni Stadium. 
Clark said that he has nothing but respect for his old team. 
“We played them quite often when I was at Stanford,” Clark said of his 1996-2000 career with the Cardinal. “I think we played them four times in my five years there. The year we went to the NCAA finals one of our few losses came to Dartmouth. They’re always good games, well-contested games.” 
Dartmouth (11-6-1) comes into the game fresh off a dominant 4­0 victory in the first round of the NCAA tournament over a Monmouth team that had previ­ously lost only one game all sea­son. 
Clark said he was watching the opening round game, and saw a dangerous Big Green attack. 
“I saw a very well-organized team. They have players that are very special,” Clark said. “They can make things happen. We’ll have to prepare for that as we prepare for the opponent.” 
The Irish (10-5-4) are recover­ing from a hard-fought 1-0 loss 
see IRISH/page 14 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
TeamtofaceCarolinayetagain 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
No 7. Notre Dame and No. 3 North Carolina will renew women’s college soccer ’s biggest rivalry Saturday in the College Cup’s round of 16 in Chapel Hill, N.C. 
For the better part of the last two decades, match-ups between the Irish and Tar Heels have been the sport’s biggest game of the year and often carries huge national title implications. This week­end’s contest is no different, as the winner will advance to the next round as the clear favorite to reach the Final Four. 
“I think arguably both of 
see RIVALRY/page 13 



Photo Illustration by Pat Coveney, Dan Jacobs and Blair Chemidlin 
page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 19, 2010 
COMMENTARY 
Recreating history isn’t all that simple 
In 1913, Notre Dame and its “forward pass” upset Army 35­
13. After that game, people started to notice the blue-collar team from Indiana. 
In 1924, Notre Dame and its “Four Horsemen” defeated Army, 13-7, on the way to the first of 11 National Championships. After that game, sports­writer 

Laura Myers 
Grantland Rice made sure every-
Sports Writer 
one knew about the Irish. 
In 2006, 48 games and nearly 100 years after the teams’ first meeting, No. 5 Notre Dame and its green jerseys steamrolled Army, as expected, 41-9. 
Not long after that game, peo­ple started wondering where the Irish had gone. 
Any first-year theology student can explain that at Notre Dame, “Tradition” is spelled with a capital ‘T.’ It is the fabric of the University and, at least in theo­ry, should be consulted as a major factor when deciding how to move forward. 
This is true in a lot of areas at the school, but especially foot­ball. Traditions have flourished since the days of Knute Rockne (who, in 1928, at Yankee Stadium, against Army, asked his team to “Win one for the Gipper”). But it has been a while since those traditions have been something more than an exer­cise in remembrance, and fans want the whole thing back. 
In a way, fans’ wants have been met. Notre Dame is playing Army at Yankee Stadium. But the Yankee Stadium in question is noticeably shinier, while Notre Dame and Army are noticeably weathered. 
The administration is doing all it can, and more, to bring atten­tion to this match up, the 50th meeting between the two teams and the 22nd in the home of the Yankees. 
What the administration fails to realize is scheduling games doesn’t mean a return to the past. 
This year it’s Army. In 2012, it’s Miami at Soldier Field in Chicago. In 2015 and 2016, the Irish and Hurricanes will play a home-and-home series, another wish granted for all who repeat­edly bring up 1988’s “Catholics vs. Convicts” game as the last real testament of Notre Dame’s team and fans. 
That win, of course, came soon before Notre Dame’s last National Championship, now nearly 22 years ago. 
And it will take much, much more than playing Army or Miami to bring around another one. 
Fortunately, Irish coach Brian Kelly knows this. After Notre Dame’s 28-3 win over Utah Saturday, Kelly said his players “didn’t have on their shoulders the traditions and reputations” that come along with playing here. 
“We were just playing,” he said. “We’re back to playing the game of football the way it needs to be played.” 
It seems hard to imagine an Irish team under the lights in Yankee Stadium, playing Army in green jerseys, and not con­cerned about the past. But Kelly said there is a distinction. 
“We want to know about our tradition. We want to embrace Notre Dame,” he said. “We just can’t carry all of the unfulfilled expectations.” 
Expectations were fairly low going into the game against Utah, which could explain why the team’s metaphorical shoul­ders were lighter. But if the Irish continue to play like they did Saturday, they will probably start to pile up again, and quick­ly. 
But Kelly doesn’t want his team to feel that. He wants them to go out and play. 
“Play the game of football,” he said. “Enjoy it. Play it hard, play it fast.” 
The burden, then, may fall not on the team, but on the fans and the administration to allow the team to do just that. 
Notre Dame’s tradition is spe­cial and important. It is right to celebrate that tradition. Asking a team of young men, most of whom weren’t alive in January of 1989, to emulate that tradi­tion is different. 
They know about the past, and they love the tradition. It’s why they’re here. They want to win against Army Saturday and against USC next week. They want to beat Miami in two years. 
No matter what, though, this team can’t bring back the past, and neither can games against historical rivals. 
What this Notre Dame team can do, with its own offensive scheme, its own backfield and its own green jerseys, is win against Army. After that game, with a bowl game in the works, people will start to wonder if the Irish are bringing in the future. 
Hopefully they’ll keep those thoughts to themselves and allow the team to keep playing the game of football. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Off-campus game brings pros, cons 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
Notre Dame may advertise Saturday’s game at Yankee Stadium as a home game, but as far as recruiting is concerned, it is anything but. By holding the game off cam­pus, the Irish are neither allowed to host recruits on 
official visits nor hold extended conversations with them, Irish recruiting expert Mike Frank said. 
“What they can do is give recruits tickets to the games, so they can come to the game and see Notre Dame,” said Frank, who runs the ESPN.com-affiliate Irish Sports Daily. “They can’t really meet with them and have long conversations when it’s off-campus.” 
Even without the official visits, Frank said the off-site games could serve a benefi­cial purpose for the Irish. 
“It’s a good thing because there is a lot of talent in the Jersey, Philadelphia area, all that area, including some in New York State,” he said. “Just having them come to the game to actually see Notre Dame is a big deal. That was the whole idea of these off -site games, to increase the exposure.” 
Frank estimated 20 to 25 recruits could watch the game from within Yankee Stadium to get a better feel­ing for Notre Dame. 
“I suspect [running back] Savon Huggins will come in. [Linebacker] Ishaq Williams will be there,” Frank said. “And I think a bunch of guys in that area, class of 2012 kids, will come in and be introduced to Notre Dame football.” 
Huggins, a four-star recruit from Jersey City, N.J., holds scholarship offers from numerous schools, including Florida, Oregon and Rutgers, and all of those schools — including Notre Dame — will have to wait a few months to learn Huggins’ final decision. 
“Savon is going to visit a number of other schools,” Frank said. “He doesn’t plan to make a decision until Signing Day, so we won’t have a decision out of him for quite some time, but I do think Notre Dame is very much still in the race. 
“I certainly do think they have a great shot, and it would help if they ran the ball on Saturday. Obviously last weekend they were able to and that is a good thing to show to running backs.” 
Williams, another four-star recruit, from Brooklyn, N.Y., holds even more offers than Huggins — including Florida, Oregon and Rutgers again — and will likely hold off on his decision as well. 

While having two dozen recruits at a game is typical­ly considered a high number, Saturday’s game should affect many more Notre Dame recruits, Frank said. The 7 p.m. kickoff will increase the national audi­ence, and catch the eyes of many potential Notre Dame players. 
“Any time you can play in that type of environment, that is a good thing,” he said. “There are a lot of eyes out there wanting to watch this game. A lot of times, 17 ­year-old kids, recruits, are 
out there during the day hanging out with their bud­dies. They aren’t at home watching college football. 
“You catch them at 7 p.m. before they go out in the evening, and show them something on the field, that can certainly have a tremen­dous effect.” 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com. E-mail Mike at mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 


Friday, November 19, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Ready for Rees 
After entering the season third on the depth chart, freshman Tommy Rees now holds Notre Dame’s fate 
tices reps with the second team. action against Michigan, Rees 
By SAM WERNER 

In the 2010 Blue-Gold Game, began to work his way back up
Sports Writer 

Rees completed all three of his the depth chart. Against Navy, pass attempts for 18 yards, but with the game out of reach, Tommy Rees walks into the was outshone by Montana, who Rees came in to relieve Crist. interview room, and the assem-threw for 223 yards and three Displaying a poise that was bled media immediately flock to touchdowns. noticeably absent against the the freshman signal-caller. For Still, Rees said the experience Wolverines, Rees went 6-of-7 someone who was in high he gained in spring practice for 79 yards. Even if it was in school just a year ago, he han-was invaluable in preparing garbage time against a second­dles the situation with complete him for the real game action. string defense, he said he could aplomb and nonchalance. “[Spring practice was most feel his confidence starting to 
“It’s a change of pace from helpful for] just the little things build. what I’m used to since I’ve been within the offense, like getting “Getting some more game here,” Rees said with a smile. the footwork down, getting your experience along the way really “It’s kind of cool to have the reads down and all that,” he helped,” Rees said. attention, but at the same time said. “It’s a little different [dur-On Oct. 30 against Tulsa, Crist it’s not that big of a deal.” ing the season] when you’re went down again — this time 
It’s all part of the job descrip-game-planning for an oppo-for the season. The game reps tion for the man who probably nent.” against Michigan and Navy never expected to be here. The experience Rees gained appeared to have paid off, as Entering the season, junior in spring practice would come the freshman played with matu-Dayne Crist was firmly into play earlier than anyone rity beyond his years. Crist’s entrenched as Notre Dame’s could have anticipated. In Notre injury may have set off a panic starting quarterback and Rees Dame’s second game of the sea-among Notre Dame fans around was competing with junior Nate son against Michigan, Crist the country, but Rees stayed Montana for the back-up spot. went down with an apparent cool under pressure, and Suffice to say, the freshman has head injury and Rees was became the first Irish freshman come a long way. forced into action. On his first quarterback to throw four 
career passing attempt, Rees touchdown passes in a game. Getting a jump start threw an interception to Even though the game ended on 
Last season, when it became Wolverine linebacker Jonas a costly interception, Rees drew apparent that former Irish Mouton. After one more incom-rave reviews from Kelly after quarterback Jimmy Clausen pletion, Rees was pulled for the his 334-yard performance. could leave early for the NFL, rest of the half in favor of “Awesome,” Kelly said of Rees the Irish coaching staff Montana. After the Irish lost 28-in the post-game press confer-approached Rees about possibly 24, Kelly admitted he “did a ence. “Are you kidding me? I enrolling in January. Seeing an poor job” preparing both back-couldn’t be more happy for the opportunity to get a leg up on ups. kid. True freshman going out learning the Irish offense, the For his part, Rees said he did-there, hasn’t played. He just Lake Forest, Ill., native got his n’t let the poor first perform-competes. Took some big hits, academics in order to get to ance get him down. got right back up. I don’t know South Bend in time for spring “Against Michigan there were if he knew where he was a cou­practice. some butterflies going, some ple of times. Got right back up, 
Even though he was initially pre-game jitters,” Rees said. said some things. I knew that recruited by former Irish coach “You’ve just got to keep work-he was going to compete Charlie Weis, Rees elected to ing hard after that and keep again.” stay committed — and follow preparing like you know you Rees admitted he surprised through on his plan on early can play.” himself a little bit with his per-In his first career start feels like it’s his team now, and enrollment — when Weis was Even though he wouldn’t formance, but added that he felt against Utah, Kelly and the he’s not just filling in for Crist. fired in December. Rees said admit it at the time, Rees said prepared for the situation. coaching staff implemented a “Dayne would probably say new coach Brian Kelly’s past the trial by fire helped prepare “I had a lot of confidence in slightly more run-based offen-the same thing,” Rees said. success sealed the deal for him. him for the rigors of big-time what I can do going out there, sive system. Rees only threw “That’s kind of the mentality 
“The first thing that jumped college football. and to play as I did is something the ball 20 times, but completed you have to have as a quarter-out at me when I met [Kelly] “Now, I’d say yes, [it helped],” I worked hard for and some-13 passes for 129 yards and back. You’ve got to come in, be last winter was how much of a he said. “But at the time you thing I couldn’t do without all three touchdowns. More impor-in charge and be a leader.” winner he was and how com-obviously want to do a little bet-my teammates’ support and tantly, though, the Irish domi-Other players are buying into mitted he was to bringing Notre ter. In hindsight, it’s probably help,” Rees said. “They should nated the No. 14 Utes for a 28-3 Rees’ leadership, too. Dame back,” Rees said. “That’s helped out getting that out of get a lot more credit than I have win. After the win, Rees said he “He sees the field very well, something I really wanted to be the way.” — the line, the receivers — was shaking hands with Utah and I like him a lot out there,” a part of.” they’ve done their job and players when he noticed some-junior receiver Michael Floyd 
Throughout spring practices, All about confidence adapted to a freshman quarter-thing unusual. said. “And I feel confident with 
Rees and Montana split prac-After struggling in his first back being in there.” “I see a couple of students him — everybody out there that I know, and I’m kind of does feel confident with him out confused as to why they’re on there, too.” the field, then all of a sudden Rees said Crist has been more the whole student section is out than helpful in his development there going nuts,” he said. “It both as a quarterback and a was really great.” leader. 
“He’s been great,” Rees said. His team now “We watch film together and we 
With the Irish now one win talk after practice. He’s been away from bowl eligibility, Rees there for me every step along said he was just focused on his the way.” job on the field. Another confidant for Rees 
“You stay with what you’re has been his father, Bill, a for-doing in the program, stay mer NCAA assistant coach at within your offense and work-UCLA and Northwestern. ing hard through football and “We talk once or twice every try not to let all the outside day and the bulk of the conver­effects get to you,” he said. sation is football,” Rees said. 
That could be difficult this “It’s great to have him there weekend, with the pomp and supporting me and it’s great to circumstance surrounding have another person I can turn Notre Dame’s first game at to to talk about the game.” Yankee Stadium since 1969. The attention can be over-Kelly acknowledged that it is whelming at times, but Rees is quite a way for Rees to start his keeping calm under pressure, college football career. both on and off the field. With 
“Last year at this time he was so many possible external pres-in high school,” Kelly said. “And sures, it’s all about keeping an he’s going to get a start at Notre even keel. Dame, Yankee Stadium and the “We’ve got to prepare just like [Los Angeles Memorial] we did last week, have a consis-Coliseum. That’s not too bad.” tency with how we play and just 
To be successful in such high-try to stack some wins here at profile environments, Rees the end.” must be comfortable in his role as Irish starter. Even though it Contact Sam Werner at took a while, he said he finally swerner@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 19, 2010 
Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 

HEAD T
Record: 5-5 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
First season at 

Irish Offense vs. Black Knights Defense
Notre Dame 



career record: 
176-62-2 
record at ND: 
5-5 
against Army: 
0-0 





Douglas 
Farmer 
Sports Editor 
I’m a Yankees fan. Have been my whole life. Thus, there is no chance I pick against the home team at Yankee Stadium. 
Yes, I, the pessimistic one among us am picking Notre Dame this week. The Irish finally showed the competitive spirit they have lacked all season in their romp over Utah. 
Against Army, Notre Dame will need that competitive edge again, if not more so than last week, as service academies are always ready to play. With that edge, that spirit, Tommy Rees and the Irish can outdo the Black Knights in all aspects of the game, for another rout. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, Army 13 


Matt Gamber 
Sports Writer 
One thing is for sure: Brian Kelly should have no trouble getting his Irish up for this game. Primetime, in the Big Apple, with a chance to become bowl eligible, against a historic opponent at Yankee Stadium? We’ll get a good look at how Tommy Rees handles the brigh­est of lights on the biggest of stages, and if his solid performance against Utah was any indication, I think he’ll be just fine. While I have concerns about Notre Dame defending the option, I believe the Navy game was such an abomination that it has effec­tively served as a wake-up call that has helped the Irish prepare. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27, Army 14 Eric Prister 

Associate Sports Editor 

Which Notre Dame team will we see this weekend at Yankee Stadium? The Irish squad who lost back to back games to Navy and Tulsa and looked completely unprepared to face the Midshipmen triple-option attack? Or the one that dominated Utah in every facet of the game? 
Notre Dame took a smashmouth attitude against Utah, and beat them in the trenches. Clearly they have that ability, and Army is another opponent with inferior talent and size on the line of scrimmage. As long as there isn’t a Senior Day let-down, the Irish win big. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, Army 10 


Friday, November 19, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 5 
Black Knights
O HEAD Army 
Record: 6-4 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
Second season at Army
Black Knights Offense vs. Irish Defense 



career record 64-45: record at Army: 
11-11 
against ND: 






Sam Werner 
Sports Writer 
Against Navy, Notre Dame dis-

As I began to think of my predic­played a complete and utter inability 
tion, I couldn't remember the last to stop the option. Even still, unless 
time I had witnessed Notre Dame Army does something Saturday they 
beat an Academy. I investigated haven’t shown on film this season, 
and realized that's because I've the Irish should be fine. 
never seen it happen. Kidding aside, Army is not the 
There's a first time for every-same option team as Navy. The Black 
thing. Knights are bowl-eligible, but have 
And much as I hate to predict a 
played one of the weakest schedules win for the home team at Yankee 
in the country. The venue alone is Stadium, the Irish should take this 
enough to get Irish players fired up one easily. 
for this game, and it’s hard to believe The team is confident and knows 
that at least some of the momentum the stakes involved. Plus, I'm pret­
built up against Utah won’t carry ty sure they're familiar with 
over to this week. Army's offensive scheme. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34, Army 13 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 30, Army 16 

page 6 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Friday, November 19, 2010 

Army presents another triple-option challenge 
Irish will be more prepared fol-By MATT GAMBER lowing the disastrous results Sports Writer against Navy, Black Knights  
coach Rich Ellerson said in a  
Remember the last time Notre press conference Tuesday.  
Dame played against a team that “We know they’ll adjust,”  
ran the option? Ellerson said. “We know they’ll  
Saturday night’s showdown play better. We know they’ll be  
with Army gives the Irish players motivated. They were hurt by  
and coaches a chance at redemp­that performance on the defen­ 
tion and an opportunity to erase sive side of the ball and they’re  
the memories of a forgettable going to respond.”  
defensive showing against Navy. Though Army’s offense does  
Notre Dame’s game plan against most of its damage on the  
the Midshipmen was clearly ground, quarterback Trent  
exposed and exploited, and while Steelman is a threat to throw the  
the Irish have certainly made ball as well.  
adjustments, Irish coach Brian “[They have] great balance  
Kelly said Tuesday it still comes offensively in the sense that if you  
down to basic defensive concepts. just try to take away one phase of  
“Physical and mental tough-it, as evident last week, nine-for­ 
ness, controlling the line of scrim­10 throwing the football with well  
mage, those are all the things over 100 yards, they can hurt you  
that I’m sure you’ve all heard a there as well,” Kelly said. “Trent  
football coach talk to the media,” Steelman is a very tough, compet- 
Kelly said. “We have to do the itive guy. He’s obviously very  
same things we did against Utah, important to their offense. Their  
and we have to receivers are  
do it against an rangy, 6-foot­ 
offense and a 3 types that “We have to do the same defense we can go up don’t see very things we did against and get the  
much.” football.” Utah, and we have to do it Navy fullback Steelman is against an offense and aA l e x a n d e r the team’s  
Teich gave the defense we don’t see very second-lead- 
Irish defense much.” ing rusher  
fits, and Notre with 596 AP  
Dame will have yards and 11 Army sophomore fullback Jared Hassin leads the Black Knights with 858 yards rushing on only 150 carries.Brian Kelly to contend with touchdowns, By defeating Kent State 45-28 Saturday, Hassin and Army became bowl eligible. another rush-Irish coach and he has  
ing threat at thrown for  you control that back row is with  Army “a little bit more diverse  then obviously the passing  
fullback in 798 yards  play-action pass,” he said. “Being  than a typical option team” will  game,” Kelly said. “They do a  
Army’s Jared Hassin. The Black with five touchdowns to only one  able to get the ball over their  be secondary to stopping what  very good job of getting the foot- 
Knights sophomore leads the interception — good for an effi­ heads a few times is really impor­ the Black Knights do best, Kelly  ball out and can really make  
team in rushing with 858 yards ciency rating of 138.9.  tant to the outcome of that game.  said.  some plays in the passing game.  
on 150 carries, for an average of Ellerson said the pass is impor- People will pick their poison, but  “It’s still about defending the  But it’s still about the principles of  
5.7 yards per attempt. tant in keeping the defense off- that should slow down the run  triple option. It’s still about the  option football.”  
“He’s somebody that obviously guard.  support along the perimeter.”  same principles that you have to  
we’re quite aware of,” Kelly said. “You defend the option with all  But defending the pass and var- defend the entire width of the  Contact Matt Gamber at  
The Black Knights know the 11 defenders, and one of the way  ious types of run plays that make  field in the running game, and  mgamber@nd.edu  

Friday, November 19, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 7 
Irish head to Yankee Stadium for 25th time 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
The Irish last played in Yankee Stadium in 1969. Then, Ara Parseghian and the Irish trounced none other than Army 45-0. The victory brought Notre Dame’s record in The House That Ruth Built to 15-6-3. 
More than four decades later, Notre Dame and Army return to the Bronx, but not much else has remained the same. Brian Kelly now fills Parseghian’s place as Irish coach. Yankee Stadium has moved 100 yards north of its previous location. Nonetheless, the Irish have hardly contained their excite­ment about the primetime game in New York. 
“They know they’re going to New York,” Kelly said in his Tuesday press conference. “I don’t think I’ve ever had more injured guys ask me if they were traveling this week. They’re all excited about that.” 
Notre Dame’s history at Yankee Stadium is well-chroni­cled: from Knute Rockne’s “Win one for the Gipper” speech in 1928 to a 3-0-2 record under Frank Leahy in the 1940s, when Notre Dame won four national championships. In fact, two of those titles resulted largely from the outcome of the Irish match-up with Army. In 1943, top-ranked Notre Dame beat No. 3 Army 26-0, and in 1946, the No. 2 Irish tied the top-ranked Black Knights at zero. 
“I think [this is] just a great atmosphere for college foot­ball,” Kelly said. “50th meeting of Army versus Notre Dame, so there’s a lot to the game. We’re excited about that certainly.” 
The encounter may be the 50th in the historic series between the Irish and the Black Knights, but this version of Yankee Stadium, now two years old, has never hosted a college football game. 
“Just to have the first game to be played there, it’s an excit­ing time for us,” Irish junior receiver Michael Floyd said. 
The tradition the Irish will add to began in 1923, when the original Yankee Stadium opened with Yankees slugger Babe Ruth sending a three-run home run over the fence in a 4­1 win over the Boston Red Sox. Up until its closing in 2008, the Stadium hosted event after his­toric event, including the first televised boxing match, when Max Baer defeated Lou Nova on July 1, 1939, the debut of soccer great Pelê in the North American Soccer League in 1976 and three Papal Masses, as Pope Paul VI (1965), Pope John Paul II (1979) and Pope Benedict XVI (2008) each said one. Thus, while the field may still be 100 yards long by 53.3 yards wide, playing at Yankee Stadium holds more weight than the average game, sopho­more linebacker Manti Te’o said. 


“Same size, same field goals, but of course it’s going to be different playing in Yankee Stadium,” Te’o said. “Similar to here, you can feel the tradition there, and it’s going to be fun.” 
Amid the tradition, playing a football game in a venue designed for baseball brings its challenges. The end lines in the end zones will be closer to walls than usual Saturday, but Kelly said precautions have been taken to insure player safety. 
“I know that has been a great concern of everybody involved,” he said. “We have a lot of people that have been working on this for quite some time. ... It’s clearly something that has been at the forefront of every conversation that I’ve heard of, from moving a foul pole to making sure there’s enough access on the side­lines.” 
Once on the field, and assured of safety, the Irish will have only one goal on their mind. 
“We’ve just got to make sure we keep all the laughter and joy down and just make sure we compete on Saturday and do everything we’ve got to do to win,” Floyd said. 

Although, junior defensive lineman Kapron Lewis-Moore did admit he wouldn’t mind seeing some celebrities at the game. 
“I’m pretty excited about it,” he said. “Hopefully, it’d be kind of cool if some of the Yankees players were there, but you never know.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 



The feld at Yankee Stadium has been realigned to ft a football feld, with one end zone near the usual home plate area, and the other end zone in deep center feld. 

page 8 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, November 19, 2010 







