the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Graduate students to file petition 
‘Family-friendly’ demands ask for more affordable health care, improved conditions for females 
By AMANDA GRAY 
Assistant News Editor 
The Catholic Church sees access to adequate health care as a human right, and this right is not provided affordably for graduate students’ spouses and children, graduate theology student Ricky Klee said. 
Klee, with others, has organized a “family-friendly petition” to ask University officials to change cur­rent University policies to better reflect a family atmosphere. 
“The University health care plan is not provided affordably,” Klee said. “Many spouses and children are not insured.” 
According to the University’s graduate student Web site, 75 percent of the premium cost for health insurance for the graduate student is subsidized. For the 2010-11 school year, the premium is $1,239. The student will pay $309, which only covers the grad­uate student. 
Spousal insurance costs $3,098 per year, Klee said. In compari­son, similar plans cost $1,774 at the Catholic University of America and $1,024 at the University of Dayton. 
Sometimes spouses and chil­dren can go on state-funded health care, Klee said, but compli­cations can surface. 
Michael Driessen, a fifth-year political science graduate student and Quality of Life chair on the 
see PETITION/page 4 




Relay for Life to be held in Stadium 
cer,” Student Committee chair for the Relay for Life Adam Lamm said. “Notre Dame really is a family, and with our unique community, we wanted our own event.” 
Participants create teams to walk with and focus their efforts on fundraising money to be donated to the ACS for cancer research. 
“There is ACS grant money being used here on campus, so it’s a neat way to bring it all full circle,” Assistant Director of University Events and Protocol Jessica Brookshire said. 
Another incentive for stu­
see RELAY/page 6 
Rapecharge against ex-student dismissed 
By JOSEPH McMAHON and 
SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writers 
The charge against a former Notre Dame student accused of felony rape of a fellow student was dismissed Wednesday after new evidence was introduced in the case. 
One rape charge against Patrick Augustyn, 20, was dis­missed because “it has become clear that the defendant had a reasonable belief that the com­plainant in this matter consented to the sexual activity which occurred,” according to court documents. 
The female accusor said it was “accurate” that Augustyn could have inferred that the sexual intercourse was consensual. 
Augustyn’s no-contact order with the female student was also terminated. 
The charges stemmed from an encounter between Augustyn and the female student in the early hours of Feb. 23, 2009. Both individuals attended an off-campus party before returning to campus around midnight, court documents said. 
According to court documents, witnesses said the female stu­dent had been drinking alcohol and vomited both at the off-cam­
see CHARGES/page 4 




Cadets to participate in training session 
By LIZ O’DONNELL 
News Writer 

Members of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Army R.O.T.C. pro­gram will travel to Culver Military Academy this weekend to participate in training exer­cises. 
Cadet Captain Elaine Teske, a Saint Mary’s senior, said the freshman and sophomore cadets in the program will take the reigns and lead the other cadets through tactical training exercises. 
Almost 60 freshmen and sophomores will be in atten­dance, as will 10 juniors and 14 seniors. Teske said the upper­classmen will take on different roles. 
“Juniors go along to act as ‘OP4,’ or oppositional force,” she said. “Basically, they take on the role of the enemies in the tactical situations.” 
Teske said seniors will assume more of a mentoring and guiding role. 
“Seniors did all the planning, and will take on more of a men­toring position,” she said. “This is the first time sophomores and freshmen are exposed to a bigger leadership role for the weekend. It’s just a big learning 
see ROTC/page 6 


TOMSShoesteamwinscompetition 

Winners of Case Bowl receive $1,000 prize for presentation 
By CARLY LANDON 
News Writer 
A team representing TOMS Shoes brought home the $1,000 top prize in the Notre Dame Entrepreneurship Society ’s signature Case Bowl, which gives teams a chance to research products and make presentations. 
Sponsored by Gino ’s East Pizza in Granger, the Case Bowl featured three teams and was held Wednesday night in the Jordan Auditorium in Mendoza at 7 
p.m. Red Bull and Clif Bar were the other two compa­nies represented. 
see BOWL/page 4 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC hosts Junior Moms Weekend page 3  Fisher Regatta page 12  Football: Defense reveals 3-4 scheme page 24  Viewpoint page 10 

By CAITLYN KALSCHEUR 
News Writer 
Rather than heading out to their usual Friday night fes­tivities, the American Cancer Society (ACS) and Notre Dame’s own ACS club are hoping students will take the opportunity to par­ticipate in the Relay for Life, a symbolic overnight fundraiser for ACS, going on inside Gate E at Notre Dame Stadium from Friday night until Saturday morning. 
“The Relay for Life is an all-night walk to symbolize the 24 -hour fight people undergo when battling can­

page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Friday, April 16, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Help us improve 

With the end of the academic year fast approaching and our publica­tion schedule winding down, it’s almost time for us at The Observer to shift our focus toward next year, when we hope to continue to make The Observer a more informative, comprehensive, user-friendly news source, both in print and online. 
When we revamped our Web site, ndsm -Matt Gamber c o b s e r v e r. c o m , last fall, we knew 

Editor- 
we wanted to cre­

in-Chief 
ate a more attractive design that would make it easier for you to access the stories you can read in print. Over the course of the year, we also worked to expand our use of multimedia in the form of photo galleries and podcasts, while also experimenting with video and a new blog. That ’s where we see room for the most growth on our Web site next year as we strive to make The Observer a more interac­tive news source. 
We’ re looking into our video capabilities and other ways in which we can use technology to keep you connected to the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s communi­ties. We want to make our blogs a more prominent, meaningful venue for both our analysis and your feed­back on major campus events in News, Sports and Scene. We want to make sure you can easily find our past coverage in the archives. And in addition to improvements to the Web site, we want to continue to develop our coverage of the most important breaking stories that affect our lives at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s on a daily basis. 
As our valued readers, that’s where you come in. We’ve got some ideas on how we think we can improve the finished product we work so hard to produce five days a week, but we also want to know what you ’re looking for in The Observer every day, both in print and online. 
Are there campus events we aren’t covering in News? Is our coverage missing an important angle in Sports? Should our colum­nists tackle different issues in Viewpoint? Do you want to hear more about local bands and per­formances in Scene? Would you like to see more photo and graphic ele­ments on the Web? Or how about additional podcast and video cover­age, especially come football sea­son? 
We’re looking for honest feedback in any of these areas as we head into the summer months and begin to draw up our plans for next year. To have your voice heard, send us an e-mail at improvendsmcobserv­er@gmail.com, or visit ndsmcob­server.com/improve and let us know what you’d like to see us change, both in print and online. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

In the April 15 edition, the wrap of the victory by "1017 East Washington Street" over "6 ... No, 5 SeaWorld Trainers" in Bookstore Basketball was incorrect. "1017 East Washington Street" defeated "Club Tril" by a score of 21-11. "SeaWorld Trainers" won their game Tuesday to advance further in the tournament. The Observer regrets the error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE  OKE? 




Elliott Pearce  Julia Kohn  Bri Neblung  Ian Trudell  
freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  
Knott  Lewis  Badin  Keough  
“Knowledge is  “Knock-knock.  “A baby seal  “Business  
knowing a  Who’s there?  walks into a  majors.”  
tomato is fruit;  Orange. Orange  club.”  
wisdom is not  who? Shoot, I  
putting fruit in  did it wrong.”  

a salad.” 
Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer Sophomore Margo DeBot tackles junior Erin Connor during a women’s rugby club practice at the McGlinn fields Thursday evening. 
OFFBEAT 
Topless Colorado gardner wins fight with landlord 
BOULDER — A Colorado woman who likes to garden wearing only a yellow thong and pink gloves has won her fight with her landlords, who wanted her to cover up. Boulder Housing Partners has decided not to outlaw ten­ants from going topless outside. That will allow 52­year-old Catharine Pierce to keep gardening the way she likes. 
Betsey Martens with the city housing authority noted Wednesday that the Boulder City Council recently voted to continue to exempt female topless­ness from a ban on public nudity. Martens said the council’s action reflects the community's values. 
Man sets his home on fire with marijuana bong 
LAS CRUCES, N.M. — Authorities said a 30-year­old man was arrested for allegedly using a marijua­na bong to set his mobile home on fire. Dona Ana County investigator Lindell Wright said in court docu­ments that the man was using alcohol to clean the pot smoking instrument Sunday when he purposely ignited the alcohol and set fire to curtains in his San Yisdro home. 
Wright said an off-duty deputy sheriff spotted the man driving away from the burning home and alerted authorities. He was arrest­ed after a police chase through the community. 
Lindell said no one else was home when the sus­pect allegedly set the blaze, which destroyed the home but cause no injuries. 
He said the man acknowledged being dis­traught and suffering from a drug addiction. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight SATURDAY SUNDAY 


IN BRIEF 
A book reception for visiting scholar Mauro Pala will take place today from 3 p.m. to 4 
p.m. at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. Pala recently translated a collection of English works on Antonio Gamsci into Italian for publication. The event is free and open to the public. 
The Relay for Life: Fightin’ Irish Fightin’ Cancer will take begin tonight at 6 p.m. at Notre Dame Stadium. The all-night event will conclude at 9 a.m. tomorrow. 
The play “Blithe Spirit” will be performed tonight at 7:30 
p.m. in the Decio Mainstage Theatre at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $10 for students, $12 for faculty and $15 for general admission. Tickets can be pur­chased by calling 574-631-2800. 
The Notre Dame Symphonic Orchestra’s Spring Concert will be performed tonight at 8 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for stu­dents, $5 for faculty and $6 for general admission. Tickets can be purchased at the DeBartolo box office. 
Grammy award winning jazz vocalist Dianne Reeves will per­form Saturday at 7: 30 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $15 for students, $28 for faculty and $40 for general admission. Tickets can be purchased by calling 574-631-2800. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

Atlanta 84 / 56 Boston 49 / 39 Chicago 65 / 40 Denver 52 / 44 Houston 78 / 62 Los Angeles 68 / 53 Minneapolis 61 / 37 New York 59 / 51 Philadelphia 73 / 53 Phoenix 88 / 63 Seattle 70 / 51 St. Louis 74 / 47 Tampa 83 / 61 Washington 85 / 57 

Friday, April 15, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC hosts mom’s weekend 
the Gillespie Conference Helmle said. “We really 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Center at the Hilton Garden wanted to showcase our 
News Writer 
Inn, where wine and cheese campus and show how nice 
will be served from 5 p.m. our school really is.” 

Saint Mary’s Junior Mom’s to 8 p.m. Students and moms will Weekend is aimed to bring In addition to the wine have the chance to partici­mothers and daughters and cheese, a silent auction pate in a tie-dye event from together for a weekend of will begin at 5 p.m. and 10 a.m. to noon in fun, junior continue until Conference Room C in the class presi -7:45 p.m., Student Center and a scav­dent Meghan when the win-enger hunt, which takes Helmle said. “Our theme for the ners will be place around campus. Wine 
“It ’s defi -weekend is that announced. glass decorating will also be nitely just a “We are available from noon to 2
daughters and
time to doing a silent p.m. in Earley Conference 
mothers are friends.” 
r e l a x , ” auction, and Room E in the Student Helmle said. we had over 45 Center. 
Mothers Meghan Helmle people donate Moms and daughters can will visit b a s k e t s , ” also participate in the game, 
junior class president
c a m p u s Helmle said. “How Well Do You Know t o d a y , Events will Your Belle.” Afternoon tea Saturday and c o n t i n u e will be held in Haggar Sunday to spend quality Saturday, beginning with a Parlor. The day will end time with their daughters. Mary Kay Skin Care party in with a showing of “A League 
“Its also good to bond with the Student Center Lounge of Their Own ” with pizza 
our moms, ” junior class from 10 a.m. and pop in treasurer Katie Brown said. to 2 p.m. A V a n d e r Though the weekend was jewelry sale Vennet at 8
“We’re defnitely 

originally intended for just will also be p.m. 
pushing and

mothers and daughters, the held during On Sunday, Junior Class Board decided the weekend encouraging moms and mothers and to open the event to all with a spe -daughters to form daughters will female relatives, but Brown cial piece of eat brunch 
friendships and making

said most of the relatives j e w e l r y together from that will visit are mothers. designed just it a lasting 8:30 a.m. to More than 250 mothers and for Junior relationship.” 11 a.m., and relatives are expected to M o m ’ s Saint Mary ’s attend, she said. Weekend. President 
Meghan Helmle

“Our theme for the week-The sale will Carol Ann end is that daughters and be held in junior class president Mooney speak mothers are friends, ” the Student at 10:15 a.m. Helmle said. “We ’re defi -C e n t e r Brunch will nitely pushing and encour-Atrium from 11 a.m. to 2 be held in the Ballroom at aging moms and daughters p.m. the Gillespie Conference to form a friendship and Brown said many of the Center at the Hilton Garden making it a lasting relation-events will be held on cam-Inn. ship.” pus to show off the College. The weekend will conclude 
The moms are scheduled “We wanted to keep it on with Mass at the Church of to arrive on campus and campus, or as close to cam-Loretto at 11:15 a.m. register between 3 p.m. and pus as possible, so the 
6:30 p.m. today. events, our two big events, Contact Alicia Smith at Registration will be held in are held at the Hilton, ” asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
New Web site aids job-seekers 
By MEGHAN MANNING 
News Writer 
As the spring semester rap­idly comes to a close and Notre Dame students anxious­ly await responses from com­panies in one of the highest unemployment environments in the decade, a new resource, Grads2Biz, can help promote their success with job and internship placement. 
Grads2Biz, which launched this month, works to connect top students from America’s elite schools and programs to Fortune 500 companies. 
It differentiates itself from other job boards online “by promoting students and recent grads instead of jobs listed by companies,” according to its April 1st press release. 
Students create personal profiles including information on their majors, employment or internship preference, clubs and memberships, and date of availability to begin work. Employers then search for talent using this variety of criteria. 
“This simple format gives employers easy access to the resumes of students whose profiles fit their needs, and frees students from the tedi­um of completing numerous applications and composing repetitive cover letters,” the press release said. 
The job board was initiated by 21 -year-old Alexander Mayer, a current student at the University of Wisconsin and a first-time entrepreneur. 
“Grads2Biz strives to make the employment process as quick and painless as possible on both sides of the equation, employer and job seeker,” Mayer said in the release. “Our unique process helps elite talent find elite business­es nearly effortlessly.” 
The new business can help Notre Dame students specifi­cally, Grads2Biz representa­tive Melissa Russell said. 
“With Grads2Biz, Notre Dame students stand out from the crowds and don’t get lost in the shuffle. There’s a lot of noise out there that can make it hard for employers to find you,” she said. 
She identified Grads2Biz as a strong resource for students in the nation’s current eco­nomic climate. 
“Sending in your resume isn’t a guarantee that it will even get read anymore, espe­cially with the job market being so saturated,” she said. “But there is a definite and real value in bringing the best and the brightest to the top, so that these top employers can find the right college stu­dents and graduates for these awesome entry-level jobs or internships.” 
Students eligible to use the resource are those attending the specific institutions identi­fied by the company with a minimum grade point average of 3.2. 
“We think so highly of Notre Dame students, and know that employers do too, so when we launched we made sure we were admitting them to the site right away,” Russell said. 
Grads2Biz also provides job hunting and career advice for students, and will soon fea­ture a resource guide and blog “to give tips on how to best traverse a rough job mar­ket,” the press release announced. 
“Connecting students to their dream jobs is our ulti­mate goal, but we also want them to be prepared to be successful in whatever they do,” Mayer said in the press release. 
Russell said opportunities exist for underclassmen already considering the opportunities that await them upon graduation. 
“We’re also looking for cre­ative, enthusiastic individuals to become student ambassa­dors from Notre Dame,” she said. 
Students using the resource pay fifty dollars for a three year membership, according to the website. To celebrate its launch, however, the company has made registration free for students into the summer. 
Contact  Meghan Manning at mmannin3@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 16, 2010 
Notre Dame Security Police she did not indicate she had uments said. (NDSP) to report that “a female engaged in sexual intercourse The female student said 
Bowl Charges 
wearing only a T-shirt had come with Augustyn. Augustyn was an “acquain­into his living room and lied The T-shirt had the name tance” and “not a romantic 
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 

down on the floor,” court docu-“Patrick” written on it, which interest,” according to the docu-Each team, comprised of 
pus party and in the cab on ments said. led officers to question Augustyn ments. three to four members, 
the way back to campus. The responding officer said in his room, where they also On Aug. 19, 2009, the case was given 20 minutes to 
Witnesses later saw the female the girl was in a “confused found the female student’s cloth-was officially filed with St. discuss its company’s his-
student in Knott Hall. She was state.” ing. Joseph County District Courts. tory, its current operations 
asleep and alone in Augustyn’s “She had no recollection of Augustyn said he and the Augustyn was arrested on and an examination of 
bed at 1 a.m. and witnesses where she was, how she had female student “hooked up” and campus Aug. 26, 2009, and The strengths, weaknesses, 
attempted to wake her for two gotten there or how she ended had sex, according to the court Observer reported he was no 
hours. At 3 a.m., the male wit-up wearing the T-shirt,” accord-documents. longer enrolled at the University opportunities and threats 
— known in the business 

ness asked the female witness to ing to court documents. When NDSP officers informed on Aug. 31, 2009. world as a “SWOT analy ­
leave because it was past pari-The female student was the girl of Augustyn’s statement, sis.” 
etals, court documents said. administered a portable breath-she “immediately began to cry Contact Joseph McMahon at “Red Bull’s presentation 
At 4 a.m., Knott Hall assistant alyzer and registered a blood-and said ‘I never would have jmcmaho6@nd.edu and Sarah was fittingly characterized 
rector Charles Gough called alcohol level of 0.13. At the time, done that with him,’” court doc-Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu by energy and excitement while TOMS used the emo­tional, cause-driven part of their company to define 
nantly male. den.” “[The graduate students are] their presentation, ” 
Peter Campbell, international O’Hare said the low University married people who have fami-
Petition 
Entrepreneurship Society 

graduate student and Village stipend for Arts and Letters grad-lies, professional careers, who vice president and Case 
continued from page 1 Representative to the GSU, said uate students causes difficulties have families and are devout Bowl organizer Tom 
the University doesn’t extend a for growing families. She said Catholics and doing what Haylon said . “Clif Bar 
Graduate Student Union (GSU), woman’s funding by the amount when she and her family arrived Catholicism tells them to do: have relied on their passionate 
said the initial graduate student she takes off for maternity leave. at Notre Dame, theology stipends children,” Campbell said. “So speaking and innovative 
policies weren’t designed for stu-“Women need that time,” were $11,700 a year, growing to when I get off the trolley at the videos to put on a great 
dents with spouses and children Campbell said. “The University $13,500. She worked a second Village, there are a lot young men performance.” 
in mind. doesn’t pause funding while a job at University Park Mall until and women on the trolley. Often, Group performances were 
“I think the petition itself is a woman is away from work.” their second child was born. when parents get off the trolley assessed by three 
response to the fact that the larg-Klee added: “There’s no true “I am a teacher by training, their children will be running to University professors serv­
er student body at Notre Dame maternity leave for female gradu-and I couldn’t put two babies in them, leaping into their arms. I ing as judges based evalua­
and many of the faculty and ate students. There’s also no daycare, teach all day, grade all think to myself, isn’t that a per­tions on their organization, 
administration are really paternity leave. It forces the night and keep my life running fect symbol of the kind of values presentation skills, stage 
unaware of some of the specific mother to be the sole care giver.” smoothly enough to justify spend-that the University wants to instill presence and creativity. 
difficulties Notre Dame married In comparison, Yale and ing so much time away from my in its undergrads?” Judges’ votes determined 
students encounter,” he said. Princeton both provide paid leave family,” O’Hare said. O’Hare added: “[Graduate stu­half of the final scores, 
Health care isn’t the only major for graduate students. Now with a position on the dents] have different needs from with the other half coming 
point of the petition, Klee said. Jamie O’Hare, Assistant Rector housing staff at University Village, the rest of the student population, via text-message responses 
The final point of the nine rec-for University Village, recent O’Hare said living on campus is and addressing these needs more from audience members. 
ommendations, entitled “Gender graduate in the Theology Ph.D. difficult for Ph.D. student families. adequately will benefit the school “The team presenting on 
Equity In Leadership At Notre program and mother of three, The current stipend for Arts by attracting the best grad stu-TOMS narrowly edged Red 
Dame,” states, “Family concerns said Notre Dame’s growth out of and Letters graduate families is dents and lowering the stress Bull to become the 2010 
cannot be considered apart from an all-male school may be why around $16,000, she said. The level of current students. “ Case Bowl champion, ” 
the poor state of balance between most policies are aimed at the 2009 federal poverty rate for a The group of graduate students Haylon said. 
genders at the top administrative, needs for single, non-childbear-family of three is $18,310, will have a demonstration on The TOMS team was com-
professorial and governance lev-ing students. according to the Department of April 20 from 11:30 a.m. to noon prised of five freshmen — 
els of the University.” “Grad students are the age at Health and Human Services. in front of the Main Building to Alex Brolick, Erin 
“This situation is broadly recog-which many people get married “This forces families to make formally submit the petition, Klee Cavanaugh, Cristina Couri, 
nized among Ivy League schools,” and have children, and at a tough decisions or risk financial said. Ryan Gisriel and Ally 
Klee said. “Female grad students Catholic institution many of those ruin,” she said. “It’s a chance for everyone to Scalo. 
need special support to finish people will be bearing children, Campbell said the University provide their own voice,” Klee Gisriel, the team ’s cap ­
degrees, even with families.” or they’re not following church should support the graduate stu-said. “We’re hoping for lots of tain, attributed the team’s 
The petition aims to compare teaching,” O’Hare said. “I think dents because they are the exam-people.” success to its hard work. 
Notre Dame to other schools of its that it fits with Notre Dame’s ples of what Notre Dame would “I think we won because 
caliber, Klee said. For example, Catholic mission to not make fol-want the undergraduate students Contact Amanda Gray at we had weekly meetings 
Notre Dame’s faculty is predomi-lowing church teaching a bur-to become. agray3@nd.edu and we worked hard to get 
our organization, our speeches, our presentation down solid. We knew we were battling nerves in a larger hall to a larger audience,” Gisriel said. 
Gisriel also said the team was motivated by TOMS ’ business model and leader­ship. 
“The reason we were so committed to weekly meet­ings and a more involved process was because we wanted to do Blake Mycofkie and TOMS Shoes justice,” Gisriel said. “We really were captivated by Blake ’s passion, and as a result we tried to translate that passion into our pres­entation.” 
Gisriel said the team will continue to be involved with TOMS Shoes and the Entrepreneurship Society. 
“With the money, we are each going to buy a pair of TOMS Shoes so not only do we each get a new pair of shoes, but also we are each giving a pair to a child in need,” Gisriel said. “Also, all five members are looking to increase our role in the Entrepreneurship Society and contribute to this ter­rific club as the years progress.” 
The Case Study Bowl is the Entrepreneurship Society’s signature event, based on the Harvard Business School’s own case study program. The three-team competition is held once each semester. 
Contact Carly Landon at clandon3@nd.edu 


World & Nation 
Friday, April 16, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Pope breaks silence on abuse 
VATICAN CITY — Pope Benedict XVI broke his recent silence on the clerical abuse scandal Thursday, complaining that the church was under attack but saying that “we Christians” must repent for sins and recognize mistakes. 
The main U.S. victims group immediately dismissed his comments, saying they are meaningless unless Benedict takes concrete steps to safeguard children from pedophile priests. 
Benedict made the remarks during an off­the-cuff homily at a Mass inside the Vatican for members of the Pontifical Biblical Commission. 
British hold first televised debate 
LONDON — British voters fixed their eyes on television screens across the country for the first U.S.-style political debate Thursday — a historic event billed as an exciting prelude to one of the closest elections in years. 
But a life-sapping format of 76 rules steril­ized many of the exchanges — there were no real gaffes, no visible beads of sweat and no bloodletting. 
Initial polls handed a surprising victory to the third place Liberal Democrats’ Nick Clegg. The 43-year-old looked relaxed with his hand resting in his pocket. He also spoke confidently and passionately — often looking intently into the camera or to the audience — about topics ranging from immigration to greed in the banking industry. Some bookmakers last week thought Clegg would be the worst performer in the first debate and the first to sweat. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Day of Prayer ruled unconstitutional 
MADISON, Wis. — A federal judge in Wisconsin ruled the National Day of Prayer unconstitutional Thursday, saying the day amounts to a call for religious action. 
U.S. District Judge Barbara Crabb wrote that the government can no more enact laws support­ing a day of prayer than it can encourage citizens to fast during Ramadan, attend a synagogue or practice magic. 
“In fact, it is because the nature of prayer is so personal and can have such a powerful effect on a community that the government may not use its authority to try to influence an individual’s deci­sion whether and when to pray,” Crabb wrote. 
Congress established the day in 1952 and in 1988 set the first Thursday in May as the day for presidents to issue proclamations asking Americans to pray. The Freedom From Religion Foundation, a Madison-based group of atheists and agnostics, filed a lawsuit against the federal government in 2008 arguing the day violated the separation of church and state. 
Workers can be fired for marijuana 
PORTLAND, Ore. — The Oregon Supreme Court has ruled that workers can be fired for using medical marijuana even if they have a card from the state program authorizing its use. 
The case involves a worker in Eugene who was fired after telling his boss before taking a drug test that he was using medical marijuana approved by his doctor. 
In a 5-2 opinion, the court said state law is trumped by federal law that classifies marijuana as a drug with no proven medical value. A dis­senting opinion said federal law did not bar Oregon from setting its own policy on medical marijuana. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Thousands attend tea party 
INDIANAPOLIS — Thousands of people have converged at the Indiana Statehouse for a rally organized by the Indianapolis Tea Party. 
It was one of at least eight Tea Party rallies that were planned across the state on Thursday’s deadline day for filing income tax returns. 
Indianapolis Tea Party organizer Susan Martin says the Statehouse event was to protest what the group calls the encroach­ment of big government into the personal freedoms of people. 
State Treasurer Richard Mourdock was among those who planned to speak. 
Feds bust illegal immigration ring 
Agents raid Phoenix, Tucson van shuttle businesses for smuggling thousands of illegals 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX — Federal agents arrested nearly 50 shuttle operators and smug­glers Thursday accused of using vans to transport thou­sands of illegal immigrants from the Mexican border to Phoenix in what was billed as one of the government’s largest-ever human smug­gling busts. 
Investigators said the operators of four shuttle services in Tucson and a fifth in Phoenix created their businesses solely to help immigrant smugglers move their customers to Phoenix under a veil of legitimacy. The shuttle operators are accused of giving illegal immigrants fraudulent receipts to make the trips look legitimate and coaching them on what to say if the vans were pulled over by police. 
“They are in knee-deep. They know exactly what’s going on,” said John Morton, assistant secretary of Homeland Security for U.S. Customs and Immigration Enforcement. 
Arrests were made in Phoenix, Tucson and two other Arizona towns along the border, Nogales and Rio Rico. Investigators also made arrests in Tennessee, and Mexican authorities detained people in the bor­der state of Sonora. In all, 47 people were in custody, including the leaders of three smuggling operations. 
More than 800 agents from nine law enforcement agencies were involved in the bust. Dozens of agents in Phoenix — some wearing black hoods over their faces 
— swarmed a shuttle busi­ness early Thursday in a strip mall in a heavily Latino neighborhood. 
No one answered phone calls at two of the accused shuttle businesses, Sergio’s Shuttle in Phoenix and Saguaro Roadrunner Shuttles in Tucson. There were no Tucson phone list­ings for the other three accused shuttle services. 

U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement touted the bust as the largest human smuggling case in the agency’s seven-year his­tory. 
The raids occurred amid a heated debate over immi­gration in Arizona, the busiest illegal gateway into the United States for several years. 
Arizona is on the verge of approving a sweeping anti-immigration law that would make it a crime under state law to be in the country ille­gally while requiring local police to question people about their immigration sta­tus if there is reason to sus­pect they are here illegally. 
Jennifer Allen, director of the Border Action Network, a Tucson-based immigrant rights group, said the show of force by federal agents will ultimately hurt the coop­eration they get from immi­grant communities because residents will be less inclined to call authorities when they witness crimes. 
“If communities are afraid to call the police to let them know about criminal activity, criminal activity is going to go right to those neighbor­hoods,” Allen said. 
Morton said investigators gathered evidence that will show the shuttle operators knew they were moving ille­gal immigrants, despite the claims of many other shuttle operators in the past that they were performing a legitimate service. 
“It’s a calculated farce,” Morton said of the five shut­tle services. 
Investigators say smug­glers would guide immi­grants from the Mexican border 65 miles north to Tucson so that they could walk around Border Patrol checkpoints. Once in Tucson, the immigrants would get into shuttle vans would take them to Phoenix via Interstate 10, a route that is patrolled by police but does­n’t have checkpoints. 
Immigration agents said the five shuttle businesses didn’t perform legitimate transportation services, such as bringing customers to air­ports. 
“They didn’t advertise at all, because they didn’t need to, they had a built-in clien­tele,” said Matthew Allen, the chief of investigations for 
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement in Arizona. 
RUSSIA 
Adoptions to Americans put on hold 
Associated Press 
MOSCOW — A Foreign Ministry spokesman said Thursday that adop­tions of Russian children by U.S. fami­lies had been suspended, although other Russian and U.S. officials disput­ed this. 
Spokesman Andrei Nesterenko said during a briefing that new adoptions by Americans are on hold pending a visit in the next few days by a U.S. delega­tion to reach an accord on future placement of Russian children. 
The U.S. hopes to resolve a bitter dis­pute that broke out last week, when an American woman sent her 7-year-old adopted son back to Russia on a plane by himself. 
“Further adoptions of Russian chil­dren by American citizens which are currently suspended will be possible only if such a deal is reached,” Nesterenko said in a televised briefing. 
“Russia believes that only an agree­ment that contains effective tools for Russian and U.S. officials to monitor the living conditions of adopted Russian children will ensure that recent tragedies in the United States will not be repeated,” he said. 
But the Russia Education and Science Ministry, which oversees international adoptions, said it had no knowledge of an official freeze. A spokeswoman for the Kremlin’s children’s rights ombuds­man said that organization also knew nothing of a suspension. 
And in Washington, the U.S. State Department said the administration had gotten conflicting information when it sought clarification from Russian officials about the status of adoptions. Spokesman P.J. Crowley said the U.S. was continuing to seek clarification. “Right now, to be honest, we’ve received conflicting informa­tion,” he said. 
The boy’s return — with little super­vision or explanation, aside from a note he carried from his adoptive mother saying he had psychological problems — outraged Russian authorities and the public. 

page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 16, 2010 
Relay 
continued from page 1 
dents to raise money is that the best student fundraiser will receive a semester of free books and any team who rais­es $5,000 or more will get a VIP, all-access tour of the sta­dium after the event, Brookshire said. 
Lamm said the Relay’s focus is “to celebrate those who have overcome cancer, to remember those who fought cancer, and to fight back to find a cure.” 
Friday’s event will be Notre Dame’s sixth Relay for Life and its first at Notre Dame Stadium, Brookshire said. Previous years’ relays have taken place at Stepen and on South Quad, but they moved to the stadium “for bigger, better publicity,” Brookshire said. 
“The charges behind creat­ing the event were to pull the whole university together and the stadium is a great place for that,” she said. 
Drew McKenna, Intern with University Events and Protocol, said the open nature of the event makes the Relay 
of Life a true community event. 
“It’s rare to have an event that’s open for everybody,” he said. “There are class or department events, but noth­ing is really open to everyone. This is something all students, staff, and mem­bers of the community can participate in.” 
Students should register in advance at relay.org/ndin, but are allowed to show up at Gate E of the stadium Friday night to register and partici­pate. 
“We have events planned throughout the night,” Lamm said. 
There will be an official 
ROTC 
continued from page 1 
experience, it’s not sup ­posed to be stressful or any­thing.” 
Teske said the cadets will start Friday afternoon with a night land navigation exer­cise. It will begin during the daylight hours, but it will be dark by the time they finish. 
On Saturday, the cadets will continue with their training, and each sophomore will lead a different group of opening ceremony at 6:30 p.m., and food and games for kids will be available throughout the night. Hacienda will also be hosting a midnight fiesta complete with games and chips and salsa. 
Special events include foot­ball locker room tours avail­able from 7:00 p.m. until 9:00 
p.m. for $5 a person where participants can get a picture with the famous “Play Like a Champion Today” sign and a silent auction from 7:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. with prizes like football tickets, memorabilia, and a Brian Kelley meet-and­greet. 
“The silent auction should be amazing,” Brookshire said. 
Aside from hoping for good weather, McKenna hopes peo­ple take advantage of events like the locker room tour dur­ing the relay. 
Participants can also make luminaries in honor of people who have fought with cancer that will be lit later in the night. 
Notre Dame is officially hon­oring a couple of its own dur­ing the event, with Sophomore Kelsey Thrasher, who has been recuperating from chemotherapy at home in Indianapolis, as the relay’s honorary student chair. Rich O’Leary, a former lacrosse coach and the founder of the rugby program, is also being honored for his battle with cancer, which took his life last year, and his work at Notre Dame throughout his life. 
So far, the event has drawn 62 teams made up of more than 700 participants and expects to break attendance of 900 at the event. Lamm said the Notre Dame commu­nity has already exceeded $500,000 in donations. 
Contact Caitlyn Kalscheur at ckalsche@nd.edu 
reinforce land navigation skills they’ve been taught and use them in a practical exer­cise.” 
On Sunday the sophomore cadets will be given the responsibility of leading an even larger squad of people. 
“Sunday is patrolling, [which is] platoon-sized and there’s more people involved, ” she said. “The cadets are doing the same thing they did Saturday, but now they just have more peo­ple to lead.” 
The weekend’s activities 
will end with a 
force-on-force 


cadets. “This is the first time paintball com­“Saturday petition Sunday 
sophomores and
they’ll get up afternoon
freshmen are exposed
pretty early to before the do situational to a bigger leadership squad heads tactical exer-home. 
role for the weekend.” 
cises,” Teske In addition to said. “Each the members of 
Elaine Teske 
soph omore the R.O.T.C. will get the Cadet Captain programs from 
opportunity to be in a leader­ship position and will be in a tactical leadership environ­ment. This is an opportunity to show how they will react in a tactical environment and how they will lead under pressure.” 
After the completion of the exercises, the cadets will take part in a barbecue and then continue with another night land navigation. 
“Basically [the cadets] have a map and a compass and five points and they have to plot their points on the map and plot them on a piece of paper,” Teske said. “This is to Notre Dame 
and Saint Mary’s, members from Holy Cross College, Bethel College, Indiana University South Bend and Valparaiso University will also partici­pate in the weekend. 
Teske said this training weekend has taken place every year since she’s been a part of the program. 
“This has been going on for a while,” she said. “I’m a sen­ior and we’ve done it every year. It’s a culminating activi­ty that we do in the spring.” 
Contact Liz O’Donnell eodonne@nd.edu 
Kareem distinguished by ASCE 
Engineering professor is frst Notre Dame faculty member honored 
Special to The Observer 
Ahsan Kareem, the Robert Moran Professor of Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences at the University of Notre Dame, has been named a distinguished member of the American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) — the first Notre Dame faculty member so honored. 
Each ASCE distinguished member is selected on the basis of his or her acknowl­edged eminence and world­wide reputation for out ­standing leadership and research activities in a par­ticular field. The selection of distinguished members is limited to eight to ten indi­viduals per year with the additional caveat of one dis­tinguished member per 7,500 ASCE members. This year’s honorees will be rec­
ognized during the ASCE annual convention in October. 
Recognized as one of only a few researchers whose work has transformed his or her field through a series of innovations, Kareem was cited for his “acknowledged eminence in the field of wind engineering and engi­neering mechanics; for pro­found contributions to the ASCE Standard of Wind Loads; and for development of Web-based analysis and tools for design practice.” 
Kareem, who serves as the director of Notre Dame ’s NatHaz Modeling Laboratory, specializes in probabilistic structural dynamics, fluid -structure interactions, structural safe­ty and the mitigation of nat­ural hazards. To better understand and predict the impact of natural hazards on the constructed environ­ment, he uses computer models and laboratory and full -scale experiments to study the dynamic effects of environmental loads under winds, waves and earth ­quakes on structures and to develop mitigation strate­gies to enhance the per ­formance and safety of structures. 
The research findings of Kareem and his students and postdoctoral fellows are having a major influence in the area of structural engi­neering, including monitor­ing of hurricane winds and their load effects; develop­ment of innovative structur­al systems for offshore drilling and production; monitoring dynamics of coastal construction, deep-water offshore structures, tall buildings, bridges and industrial structures; risk modeling; and development of cyber-based collabora­tions for research and edu­cation in wind effects. 
His work also has resulted in more than 165 journal publications and significant appointments such as edi­tor-in-chief of the interna­tional journal of Wind and Structures, associate editor of the Journal of Structural Engineering and Journal of Engineering Mechanics, and Chair of the Engineering Mechanics Division of ASCE. 
Among Kareem ’s most recent honors are election as a member of the U.S. National Academy of Engineering and a foreign fellow of the Indian National Academy of Engineering, receipt of the ASCE’s State-of-the-Art award for schol­arly contributions to full-scale monitoring of tall buildings, appointment as an advisory professor at Tongji University in Shanghai and selection as the inaugural recipient of the Alan G. Davenport Medal, presented by the International Association for Wind Engineering in recog­nition of his distinguished achievement in the dynamic wind effects on structures. He also received the Robert 
H. Scanlan Medal for out­standing original contribu­tions to the study of wind-load effects on structural design and the Jack E. Cermak Medal in recogni­tion of his contributions to the study of wind effects on structures. His receipt of the Davenport, Scanlan and Cermak medals is an unmatched recognition in this field. 
Kareem was graduated from the West Pakistan University of Engineering and Technology with distinc­tion in 1968 and, through a joint program with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, he earned his master’s degree in structur­al engineering from the University of Hawaii. He earned his doctorate in civil engineering, with a focus on structural and fluid dynam­ics, from Colorado State University. 
The Observer 
Business

Friday, April 16, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Prisons cut counseling budgets 
DALLAS — When John Patrick Barton was in prison on his third drunken driving convic­tion, he was not among the thousands of inmates nationwide who undergo alcohol and drug treatment behind bars each year. 
Fifteen months later and out of prison, Barton is accused of driving drunk again. This time, authorities say he plowed his car into another, killing a woman and her teenage daughter in a Dallas suburb on Easter. 
Barton’s case has turned into a rallying cry in Texas, where state officials have proposed slashing more than $23 million from in-prison treatment programs. These types of programs 
— many already stretched thin — are increas­ingly endangered as shrinking budgets force several states to consider cuts to treatment for drug users, drunken drivers and sex offend­ers. 
Though Barton was never ordered to under­go alcohol treatment after his third drunken driving offense, those opposed to the proposed cuts to the nation’s second largest prison sys­tem are using his case as an example of what they fear will happen if treatment programs are trimmed. 
Canada waits on cap-and-trade plan 
TORONTO — Canada’s environment minister says the country will not act this year on a cap-and-trade system to control climate change because the government does not expect the U.S. to pass emissions-control legis­lation in that time period. 
Jim Prentice said Thursday that Canada is committed to harmonizing its climate change initiatives with the United States so that it can reduce greenhouse gas emissions without damaging its trade relations with its southern neighbor. 
He says Canada will work with the United States on regulatory measures, such as the recent agreement to cut auto emissions. Prentice added that the two countries will soon introduce tougher standards for ships and aircraft as well. 
A porn performer and owner of ATMLA who identified herself as Shy Love said the risks faced by porn actors are similar to those in sports entertainment, where fighters can be exposed to blood, sweat and mucus. 
Atlanticpollutedbyhiddengarbage 
Researchers warn extensive stretch of the ocean contains refuse patch harmful to animals 
Associated Press 
SAN JUAN, Puerto Rico 
— Researchers are warn­ing of a new blight at sea: a swirl of confetti-like plastic debris stretching over a remote expanse of the Atlantic Ocean. 
The floating garbage — hard to spot from the sur­face and spun together by a vortex of currents — was documented by two groups of scientists who trawled the sea between scenic Bermuda and Portugal’s mid-Atlantic Azores islands. 
The studies describe a soup of micro-particles similar to the so-called Great Pacific Garbage Patch, a phenomenon dis­covered a decade ago between Hawaii and California that researchers say is likely to exist in other places around the globe. 
“We found the great Atlantic garbage patch,” said Anna Cummins, who collected plastic samples on a sailing voyage in February. 
The debris is harmful for fish, sea mammals — and at the top of the food chain, potentially humans — even though much of the plastic has broken into such tiny pieces they are nearly they have taken important Massachusetts-based Sea often smaller than pencil invisible. steps toward mapping the Education Association col-erasers, suspended near 
Since there is no realistic extent of the pollution. lected more than 6,000 the surface of the deep blue way of cleaning the oceans, Cummins and her hus-samples on trips between Atlantic. advocates say the key is to band, Marcus Eriksen, of Canada and the Caribbean “It’s shocking to see it keep more plastic out by Santa Monica, California, over two decades. The lead firsthand,” Cummins said. raising awareness and, sailed across the Atlantic investigator, Kara Lavendar “Nothing compares to being wherever possible, chal-for their research project. Law, said they found the out there. We’ve managed lenging a throwaway cul-They plan similar studies in highest concentrations of to leave our footprint really ture that uses non-the South Atlantic in plastics between 22 and 38 everywhere.” biodegradable materials for November and the South degrees north latitude, an Still more data are need-disposable products. Pacific next spring. offshore patch equivalent to ed to assess the dimensions 
“Our job now is to let On the voyage from the area between roughly of the North Atlantic patch. people know that plastic Bermuda to the Azores, Cuba and Washington, D.C. Charles Moore, an ocean ocean pollution is a global they crossed the Sargasso Long trails of seaweed, researcher credited with problem — it unfortunately Sea, an area bounded by mixed with bottles, crates discovering the Pacific is not confined to a single ocean currents including and other flotsam, drift in garbage patch in 1997, said patch,” Cummins said. the Gulf Stream. They took the still waters of the area, the Atlantic undoubtedly 
The research teams pre-samples every 100 miles known as the North has comparable amounts of sented their findings in (160 kilometers) with one Atlantic Subtropical plastic. The east coast of February at the 2010 interruption caused by a Convergence Zone. the United States has more Oceans Sciences Meeting in major storm. Each time Cummins’ team even netted people and more rivers to Portland, Oregon. While they pulled up the trawl, it a Trigger fish trapped alive funnel garbage into the scientists have reported was full of plastic. inside a plastic bucket. sea. But since the Atlantic finding plastic in parts of A separate study by But the most nettlesome is stormier, debris there the Atlantic since the undergraduates with the trash is nearly invisible: likely is more diffuse, he 1970s, the researchers say Woods Hole, countless specks of plastic, said. 

BRAZIL 
Amazon defenders stall dam project 
debt. Increasing international condemna-
Associated Press 
The administration of President Luiz tion won’t reverse Brazilian policy 
SAO PAULO — Environmentalists Inacio Lula da Silva is vowing to makers’ view that the dam is essential aided by “Avatar” director James appeal, however. And Brazil, with to provide a huge injection of renew-Cameron celebrated a big win government reserves of $240 billion, able energy, said Christopher Garman, Thursday after a judge suspended has such a booming economy that it director of Latin American analysis at bidding on construction and operation no longer needs money from abroad the Eurasia Group in Washington. of an Amazon dam that would be the to build the $11 billion Belo Monte “This dam is going to happen. It’s planet’s third-largest. dam. just a matter of when it happens,” 
The ruling also resulted in the sus-Environmental groups and Amazon Garman said. pension of the hydroelectric project’s Indians “are incredibly energized by Brazil has a fragile energy grid that environmental license. It was reminis-this decision and have renewed hope, was hit last year by a blackout that cent of 1989, when rock star Sting although no one is naive,” said Atossa darkened much of the nation. Belo protested the same dam alongside Soltani, executive director of Amazon Monte would supply 6 percent of the Indians in an event that helped per-Watch. “Everyone recognizes that in country’s electricity needs by 2014, suade international lenders not to Brazil a decision like this could be the same year Brazil will host soccer’s finance it at a time when Brazil was overturned quickly, and that we World Cup and just two years before shuddering under a heavy foreign haven’t won the battle yet.” Rio holds the 2016 Olympics. 

page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, April 16, 2010 
State sen. negates militia remarks 
Member of Tea Party seeks nomination to be governor of Oklahoma 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY — A darling of the tea party movement who has supported the idea of a vol­unteer militia said Thursday he expects to win the Oklahoma governor’s race despite criticism of his warning that citizens may need to protect themselves against a federal affront on state sovereignty. 
State Sen. Randy Brogdon, R-Owasso, said in an interview with The Associated Press that his message resonates with vot­ers who will select a replace­ment for term-limited Gov. Brad Henry, a Democrat, in November. 
“I stand on constitutional prin­ciples,” Brogdon said. “That is right dead center of the thoughts and the values and the ideas of Oklahomans. I’m not out of the mainstream. I am standing on solid ground, and my platform is the Constitution of the United States, the protection of the rule of law.” 
Brogdon, who is seeking the Republican nomination for gov­ernor, said in an AP story Monday that a citizen militia is authorized by state law and the 
U.S. Constitution and that the Second Amendment “deals directly with the right of an indi­vidual to keep and bear arms to protect themselves from an over­reaching federal government.” 
At the time, Brogdon and some local tea party leaders indicated a militia could be used to stop federal encroachment into state’s rights. Brogdon has since said he spoke only of a new National Guard-type unit to aid the state during civil emergen­cies. In a number of media appearances this week he said he never used the term “militia” in his AP interview. 


Brogdon used it five times. 

“Is a state militia a good idea? It probably is. Because it, again, it would just reinforce the, the attitude and the belief that you and I have the right to keep and bear arms and to provide and protect our families from an overreaching federal govern­ment. I think it’s a great idea,” Brogdon said in the interview conducted last week. 
Separately Thursday, a state House member who said he expected the Oklahoma Legislature to see a militia-relat­ed bill during next year’s session said he was not sure a bill would be prepared. 
“I do not expect legislation to be filed, but I can’t predict the future,” said state Rep. Charles Key, R-Oklahoma City. “There’s 101 members out here (in the House) and 48 over there (in the Senate). How could I make a statement that it will or won’t?” He told AP last week he thought there was a “better than 50-50 chance” such a bill would be filed. 
Brogdon said last week and again Thursday he did not know how a new state guard would be set up. 
“If we have an opportunity to have a volunteer force to com­plement that National Guard, I think that is a great idea, to take care of the citizens of this state when the National Guard has been deployed," Brogdon said before addressing a crowd of about 500 people at a Sooner Tea Party rally. 


Civil Rights leader Hooks revived NAACP 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE — Civil rights leader Benjamin L. Hooks, who shrugged off courtroom slurs as a young lawyer before earning a pioneering judgeship and later reviving a flagging NAACP, died Thursday in Memphis. He was 85. 
Across the country, political leaders and Hooks’ peers in the civil rights movement remem­bered his remarkably wide-ranging accomplishments and said he’d want the fight for social justice to continue. State Rep. Ulysses Jones, a member of the church where Hooks was pastor, said Hooks died at his home following a long illness. 
“Our national life is richer for the time Dr. Hooks spent on this earth,” President Barack Obama said in a statement. “And our union is more perfect for the way he spent it: Giving a voice to the voiceless.” 
Hooks took over as the NAACP’s executive director at a time when the organization’s stature had diminished in 1977. Years removed from the civil rights battles of the 1960s, the group was $1 million in debt and its membership had shrunk to 200,000 members from near­ly a half-million a decade earli­er. 
“Black Americans are not defeated,” he told Ebony maga­zine soon after his induction. “The civil rights movement is not dead. If anyone thinks that we are going to stop agitating, they had better think again. If anyone thinks that we are going to stop litigating, they had bet­ter close the courts. If anyone thinks that we are not going to demonstrate and protest, they had better roll up the side­walks.” 
By the time he left as execu­tive director in 1992, the group had rebounded, with member­ship growing by several hun­dred thousand. He used com­munity radiothons to raise awareness of local NAACP branches’ work and to boost membership. 
“He came in at a time the NAACP was struggling and gave it a strong foundation. He brought dignity and strong lead­ership to the organization,” Jones said. 
Current NAACP President Benjamin Jealous recalled a speech Hooks gave last year that was “as fiery as any he’s given 50 years earlier,” despite Hooks’ diminished health at the time. 
“Right up to the last, he con­veyed ... the need for us to fight,” Jealous said. 
State Rep. John Deberry, a fel­low minister and chairman of the Tennessee Black Caucus, said Hooks’ passing is a sober­ing reminder that “we are los­ing an incredible generation of men and women who changed the world.” 
“And I hope that all these young folks who accept their rights with such a cavalier atti­tude, those who are disrespect­ful to their seniors, those who go to these schools and misuse the opportunities ... realize that as these men and women move off the scene, that somebody has to step up,” Deberry said. 
Hooks’ inspiration to fight social injustice and bigotry stemmed from his experience guarding Italian prisoners of war while serving overseas in the Army during World War II. Foreign prisoners were allowed to eat in “for whites only” restaurants while he was barred from them. 
When no law school in the South would admit him, he used the GI bill to attend DePaul University in Chicago, where he earned a law degree in 1948. He later opened his own law practice in his hometown of Memphis. 
“At that time you were insult­ed by law clerks, excluded from white bar associations and when I was in court, I was lucky to be called ‘Ben,'” he once said in an interview with Jet maga­zine. “Usually it was just ‘boy.'” 
In 1965 he was appointed to a newly created seat on the Tennessee Criminal Court, mak­ing him the first black judge since Reconstruction in a state trial court anywhere in the South. 
President Richard Nixon nom­inated Hooks to the Federal Communications Commission in 1972. He was its first black commissioner, serving for five years before resigning to lead the NAACP. 
At the FCC, he addressed the lack of minority leadership in media and persuaded the com­mission to propose a new rule requiring TV and radio stations to be offered publicly before they could be sold. Minority employment in broadcasting grew from 3 percent to 15 per­cent during his tenure. 
In the waning years of his leadership of the NAACP, Hooks pressed then-President George 
H.W. Bush for action on a string of gasoline bomb attacks in the South that killed a federal judge in Alabama and a black civil rights lawyer in Georgia in December 1989. The same month, another bomb was inter­cepted at an NAACP office in Jacksonville, Fla. 
“We believe that this latest incident is an effort to intimi­date our association, to strike fear in our hearts,” Hooks said at the time. “It will not succeed. We intend to go about our busi­ness, but we will most certainly be taking precautions.” 
The man later convicted of the killings and other charges remains on Alabama’s death row. 
Hooks later was chairman of the board of directors of the National Civil Rights Museum in Memphis and helped create The Benjamin L. Hooks Institute for Social Change at the University of Memphis. 
He also created an initiative that gave more employment opportunities to blacks in Major League Baseball and launched a program in which corporations supported development projects in black communities. 
President George W. Bush in 2007 presented Hooks with the Presidential Medal of Freedom, one of the country’s highest civilian honors. 
“Dr. Hooks was a calm yet forceful voice for fairness, opportunity and personal responsibility,” Bush said in 2007. “He never tired or fal­tered in demanding that our nation live up to its founding ideals of liberty and equality.” 
In his last keynote speech to an NAACP national convention in 1992, Hooks urged members who had found financial success to never forget those less fortu­nate. 

Friday, April 16, 2010 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Volcanic cloud of ash complicates U.S. travel 
Marine back on Facebook 
Sgt. Gary Stein relaunches his ‘Armed Forces Tea Party’ page 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — A volcanic ash cloud that shut down airports and tied up air traffic across Europe could turn into a long, costly headache for businesses, airlines and tourists in the United States. 
The ash spewed by an erup­tion in Iceland forced airlines to cancel flights and redirect planes around the ash. Those diversions caused jetliners to burn more fuel and created delays in the air-cargo business that could quickly run into tens of millions of dollars. 
The slowdown could affect everything from package ship­ments to business meetings and long-planned vacations. 
“The costs could be extraordi­nary," said Jeffrey Price, an avi­ation professor at Metropolitan State College of Denver. 
Many in the travel industry on Thursday weren’t asking if they would be affected — but how badly. 
“This is the ultimate act of God," said Chicago-based trans­portation expert Joseph Schwieterman. “It’s hard to imagine a weather scenario that would disrupt the entire Atlantic flight system like this." 
Anxious clients called Boston-based Garber Travel, one of New England’s biggest travel agencies, asking how they might rearrange flights. But for some travelers bound for Europe, it was too late. 
The flight cancellations jeop­ardized a $6,000 trip planned for more than six months by Robert and Barbara Breault of Coventry, R.I. 
Barbara, an avid gardener, had scheduled a vacation that coincided with tulip bloomings in the Netherlands. But their outbound flight Thursday evening from Boston’s Logan Airport to London Heathrow was marked “See agent." 
“It’s not supposed to do this," Barbara said with a laugh. “I had already planned the whole thing." 
She had paid not only for the airline tickets, but supplemental charges for window seats and for a private guide, as well as a cruise through Holland’s famed canals dubbed the “Tulip Festival Cruise." 
On an average day, U.S. air­lines operate about 340 flights to and from Europe, according to the Air Transport Association. On Thursday, American carriers canceled about 165 of those flights because of the ash, and the ATA expected at least as many to be canceled Friday. 
An FAA spokeswoman said the cancellations affected at least 10 countries: England, Ireland, Northern Ireland, Scotland, Sweden, United Arab Emirates, Finland, France, Belgium and Denmark. 
The FAA issued an order hold­ing flights destined for the United Kingdom on the ground. Other flights to and from Europe were being diverted around British airspace, which has been closed until 4 a.m. EDT Friday. 
That didn’t bode well for two British friends stranded at New York’s Kennedy Airport hotel after their flight was canceled. 
“I just want to go home now," said 23-year-old Grace Schofield, of Yorkshire, England, whose trip was also disrupted by emergency surgery for appendicitis. “I can only do so much walking around the city before I have to rest." 
For one British man trying to make it back to London, the consequences were deeply emo­tional. 
“It was my grandmother’s funeral tomorrow so I am going to miss that," said Gary Alderson, who was also at the airport hotel. 
Elsewhere, flight cancellations undermined pending business deals. 
Mark Kiefer, a Boston-based aviation industry consultant, said he initially planned to send a proposal to a company north of Amsterdam by air courier to meet a Monday deadline. 
“They told us that they would-n’t take a package tomorrow, and they wouldn’t guarantee you Monday," Kiefer said. Instead, he planned to e-mail the proposal to colleagues in The Hague, have them print it out and then drive about an hour to hand-deliver the docu­ment. 
Air cargo companies conceded they were scrambling to cope. 
FedEx, the world’s second-largest package-delivery com­pany, started rerouting flights bound for Charles De Gaulle Airport in Paris. It also moved some packages by truck instead of air. 
Company spokesman Steve Barber could not specify what types of shipments were most affected. 
Although rare, flight problems caused by volcanic ash are not unheard of. The 1980 eruption of Mount St. Helens in Washington state grounded hundreds of flights for days. 
But ironically, the airlines’ decision to reduce their sched­ules to ensure that planes are full could work against them as they scramble to find available seats on alternative flights. 
“These high-load factors can make disruptions like this into full-scale disasters — where passengers are stranded for days," Schwieterman said. “Ten years ago, the airline took just a few days to get back to normal. Now, it can take longer." 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — A meas­ure restoring jobless benefits of up to 99 weeks for people struggling to find work after months of unemployment is expected to rebound from a temporary setback in the Senate. 
Despite winning the single Republican vote they needed, Democrats Wednesday fell just short of the 60 votes nec­essary to defeat a GOP chal­lenge to the jobless benefits measure. Vermont Democratic Sen. Patrick Leahy was absent to attend the funeral of a close friend. 
The defeat should be tem­porary since Democrats are likely to win a revote Wednesday evening after Leahy returns to Washington. 
Republicans were seeking to force Congress to pay for its $18 billion cost and not add to budget deficits topping $1 trillion. But George Voinovich, R-Ohio, broke with his party to vote with Democrats to keep the meas­ure on track. 
Later, Democrats by a 51­46 vote killed a move by Tom Coburn, R-Okla., to finance the benefits by having the Obama White House erase $20 billion worth of govern­ment spending authority that has yet to be specifically allo­cated. 
The temporary measure would extend jobless benefits averaging $335 a week through June 2. A program providing federally-funded benefits to people who have been out of a job more than six months lapsed last week, which means more than 200,000 people a week are unable to reapply for addi­tional weeks of benefits. 
Several other programs have lapsed as well, including federal flood insurance, high­er Medicare payment rates for doctors and health insur­ance subsidies for people who have lost their jobs. 
The expiration of the pro­grams means that the newly jobless aren’t eligible to sign up for health insurance sub­sidies but that people cur­rently covered under the so-called COBRA law retain the benefit. People living in flood plains can’t sign up for flood insurance or renew their policies, while the Medicare program has delayed pay­ments to doctors rather than imposing a 21 percent cut. 
Eligibility for the expired programs would be restored retroactively. The House would have to vote again on the measure after passing it last month, assuming Democrats are successful in extending its expiration date past Memorial Day. That extra time is needed to iron out the wrinkles of more comprehensive legislation extending most of the lapsed programs through the end of the year and adding in tax cuts for individuals and busi­nesses that have also expired. 
Four Republicans helped Democrats on Monday defeat a filibuster by other Republicans seeking to block the Senate from even taking up the measure: Sens. Susan Collins and Olympia Snowe of Maine, Voinovich and Scott Brown of Massachusetts. But none of the other three voted with Voinovich. 
Specifically at issue in Wednesday’s vote was whether to permit the meas­ure to be financed by adding to the $12.8 trillion national debt. Under Senate rules, a successful GOP challenge could require the chamber to come up with ways to pay for the measure. 
Additional weeks of jobless benefits have traditionally been routinely extended dur­ing times of high unemploy­ment and have previously always been paid for by adding to the national debt. 
But with the deficit easily surpassing $1 trillion — and with the issue of deficits and debt is of increasing concern to voters — many Republicans have changed their minds and are now insisting they be financed by spending cuts elsewhere in the $3.7 trillion federal budg­et. 
Last month, 21 Republicans in the Senate voted for virtu­ally identical legislation pro­viding the jobless benefits without paying for them. 
The stock market has been rising for more than a year and has advanced steadily for two months on encouraging signs of growth. Some ana­lysts have warned that shares have climbed too high, but the latest reports eased some concerns that prices are stretched. 


The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 10 Friday, April 16, 2010 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnewseditor.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 danrjacobs@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Molly Madden Douglas Farmer 
Joseph McMahon Allan Joseph Carly Landon Andrew Owens Graphics Viewpoint Andrea Archer Lianna Scene Brauweiler Adriana Pratt 
THE OBSERVER 
Notre Dame rightfully optimistic 

The Independent, Daily Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 
about Brian Kelly era 
While spring football practice reports often include little more than the daily minutiae of who happens to be lining up in what order, or who beat who in what one-on-one drill, it is precisely those details that interest Irish football fans who are anxious to see what exactly the Brian Kelly era will entail. 
At this point in the spring, it’s only natural to take every move Kelly makes and compare him to his predecessor, Charlie Weis. And, by nature, those comparisons will always seem to favor Kelly, who Irish fans hope can resur­
rect a program that posted a 16-21 record over Weis’ last three seasons. 
There’s no doubt that in many ways, Kelly and Weis are polar opposites — that much was evident even before watching Kelly’s Irish take the practice field. That’s not to say that everything Kelly does is the right way and everything Weis did was the 
wrong way. But because director of athletics Jack Swarbrick looked at the on-field results of the past three years and determined a coaching change was necessary, it is encouraging that he found a coach in Kelly who has done things differently from Day One. 
There is no consensus on why Weis didn’t live up to expectations at Notre Dame, though popular explanations include his lack of college experience, his NFL-type per­sonality and his failure to effectively develop his players. Kelly’s resume alone indicates that if the Irish are unsuc­cessful under his direction, it won’t be for any of those reasons. In more than two decades of coaching at three different schools, Kelly has had to develop countless play­ers who didn’t have the talent to even sniff the NFL, and he’s won. And during practice this spring, after an intense offseason strength and conditioning program that con­cluded with “Camp Kelly,” it appears the new staff has begun to lay the groundwork to win again at Notre Dame. 
In position drills, there seems to be an increased empha­sis on individual fundamentals, like quarterbacks practic­ing taking hits or running backs working to improve ball control. During stretching, which is more movement-based and dynamic than in the past, coaches can be heard encouraging players to do things the right way. And even 
during “breaks,” a loose term, the Irish are expected to be jogging. This sense of urgency and attention to detail is something that at times seemed lacking under the previous staff. 
No unbiased evaluator could doubt that Notre Dame has plenty of talented players on next year’s roster, and there’s no way respected recruiting analysts whiffed when they awarded so 
many current Irish players with four-and five-star rank­ings. The talent is there, and Kelly’s history of making the most of what he’s given — and in this case, it’s quite a bit 
— is the source of the optimistic buzz that’s been circling the Guglielmino Athletics Complex over the past few months. 
You can only learn so much from what a coach has to say during spring ball — and especially from a coach who has yet to lead his team out of the tunnel in Notre Dame Stadium. But so far, after Kelly and his staff talked the talk about tempo and toughness during winter, early returns on the practice field show that they’ll walk the walk, too. And more importantly, the players are begin­ning to as well. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“In truth, people can generally make time for what they choose to do; it is not really the time but the will that is lacking.” 
Sir John Lubbock English archaeologist 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Too bad that all the people who know how to run the country are busy driving taxicabs and cutting hair.” 
George Burns 
U.S. comedian 
The Observer 
Viewpoint

Friday, April 16, 2010 page 11 
Piercing Neil Armstrong’s privacy 
Yesterday President Obama visited NASA’s Kennedy Space Center and addressed an independent panel’s rec­ommendation to cancel the Ares I rocket. Noting that it would not be ready to serve its planned role for space station transport or to reach the moon by 2020 since under­funding crippled NASA’s plan, the panel concluded it unrealistic that 

Gary Caruso 
Constellation’s first moon landing 

Capitol
could occur until 

Comments 
2028 or later. The president prefers to develop a “flexible path” with a heavy lifting rocket. This option would develop technologies for trips beyond Earth’s orbit, and delay moon landings or on Mars until such technologies further evolve. 
Obama’s announcement to cancel the over-budget and dilatory Constellation program has no breviary among the Apollo-era astronauts. A perceived snarkiness permeates through the debate and ignited between the first man to step onto the moon — Neil Armstrong — and his fellow Apollo 11 crewmember who followed him as the second man to walk on the moon’s sur­face, Buzz Aldrin. 
Aldrin, in an op-ed piece for The Wall Street Journal wrote, “Many said the president’s decision was misguid­ed, short-sighted and disappointing. Having the experience of walking on the moon’s surface on the Apollo 11 mission, I think he made the right call. If we follow the president’s plan, our next destination in space, Mars, will be within our reach.” 
Without sounding vitriolic, Armstrong excoriated the president’s plan in a letter by saying the move is “devastating” to America’s space effort. Lacking a tone of an anathema, the letter ended by warning, “Without the skill and experience that actual spacecraft operation provides, the USA is far too likely to be on a long down­hill slide to mediocrity.” 
The Apollo 11 commander’s open let­ter was also signed by Apollo 17 com­mander Eugene Cernan — the last man to walk on the moon — and Apollo 13 commander Jim Lovell, who marked the 40th anniversary of his famous near-disaster this week. Together, this famous trio also recently travelled to visit our troops overseas and in Afghanistan. That tour, called “Legends of Aerospace,” is actually where their letter took root … on a long plane ride together. The fact that Armstrong, one of the most private of persons but arguably the world’s most famous living astronaut, led other astronauts against NASA’s plans raised the level of this debate over America’s future in space. And indirectly, if not for a fellow Notre Dame alumnus, Mike Whalen (’74), who coordinated that tour, the nation — no, the world — may not have seen the peeling away of Armstrong’s obsessive privacy. 
I am personally grateful to Whalen for the opportunity to meet Armstrong 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

St. Baldrick’s Day 
It was pretty awesome taking two-minute show­ers, and even cooler that I was able to get ready in less than 10 minutes every day (depending on how long my clothes selection would take), but the best part about it all was knowing that I shaved my head for an amazing cause, and I am hoping to tempt you to do the same. 
It’s just hair; it grows back so unbelievably fast it will be as if you never even shaved your head. You will get to experience so many different hairstyles. And when it has all grown out, instead of wonder­ing what your favorite style is, you will go through pictures like you would go through a catalogue and you can choose what you want to look like. It’s actually pretty bizarre and so awesome. You will be raising/donating money to St. Baldrick’s Foundation, a foundation that raises money for childhood cancer research. You never know whom your contribution will benefit. By helping researchers come closer to finding a cure, it could end up that you were helping your cousin, your niece or nephew or even your child. There will be a cure one day for this dreadful disease. We will continue to work together to find it, I hope you will too. 
So if you’re a boy, come get a $10 haircut; even better, have your friends pitch in a few bucks, too. Heck, fundraise your life away. 
And if you’re a girl, truly consider it. It was the best decision I have ever made; there was not one second, not even one millisecond, when I regretted shaving my head, even on the days when I looked in the mirror and wondered if people still thought I was a girl. But let’s all be honest, even with long hair we all have those days when we ask that question — or is that just me? Still, the point is that even then I did not regret shaving my head. 
Alright, now go be so college and do something crazy! Shave your head, donate or help your friend fundraise. 
Tiffany Robak 
senior off campus April 13 
when they landed in New York for a public event at the Intrepid museum. I must offer a mea culpa for irritating Armstrong at the end of our visit. Within an hour, I brought him to a swelling of tears referring to his par­ents, to a chuckle about a Notre Dame curse on Apollo 13 and to anger when mentioning the possibility of filming his landing in the Mojave Desert. 
It began when Armstrong completed breakfast and entered his hotel lobby. Unrecognized by those bustling about, the ease by which he carried himself controlled his demeanor. I asked about his parents who appeared on the “What’s My Line?” television show. I thought that Garry Moore quipped, “That would be something if your son was the first man to land on the moon.” 
While not saying I was mendacious, Armstrong corrected, “As I recall, they appeared on ‘I’ve Got A Secret’ while I was on the moon — as the parents of the man who landed.” He choked up, and a tear welled in the corner of his eye as he continued, “I haven’t thought of that in some time.” 
I sat behind Armstrong during the bus ride from the hotel to the museum. As we posed for a photograph, I said I needed to apologize to Apollo 13 Commander Lovell for jinxing his flight by walking under the platform during my visit while in Notre Dame’s Air Force ROTC. Without a word, Armstrong grinned as though to say, “Trust me, you were not responsible.” 
As we neared the museum, I made a last request. My late humorous class­mate and fellow Lyons Hall resident, Steve Pallucca, joked that the moon landing was a prevarication filmed in the Mojave Desert. Attempting a tongue-in-cheek question without try­ing to sound grandiloquent, I shame­lessly interrupted Armstrong to ask if he could assure me that his landing was not filmed in the Mojave Desert. He replied with assertion and intransi­gence, “I can’t assure you of anything. But my footprints are on the moon. They have pictures of them. They know where they are, and someday someone will return and prove it.” 
Later, speaking before the public, Armstrong’s first event since 1972, he paid tribute to the troops and avoided mentioning the moon. He passionately urged everyone to study government policies rather than accept talking points from others. He stressed that the troops’ sacrifices are beyond any­thing we can know unless we are among them in battle. It was a public Armstrong the enormity of his moon landing had once shelved. It was good that he and his letter emerged … all with roots through Notre Dame. 
Gary Caruso is a Notre Dame gradu­ate of the Class of 1973 and serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton's administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contact­ed at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Keep your baseball 
First and foremost, I would like to disagree with the very first sentence of the April 14 article “In defense of baseball” (Andy Ziccarelli). The article opens with: “Spring in the Midwest is exciting.” Halt! This statement is akin to saying that Jim Carey is funny — objectively and undeniably wrong. The only thing exciting about spring in the Midwest is that sometimes houses tend to go up for sale in the East, South or North, and you can promptly pack your bags and never look back. The article then takes a turn for the worse as the author begins to prattle on about various aspects that could make baseball exciting. (At one point Ziccarelli informs us that he’ll wait for us to stop laughing, upon which I had to wait to stop laughing.) 
Eventually I took the time to consider this view­point. I understand that while the pitcher has to perform the lofty task of throwing a ball fast or with a curve, the batter has to respond by swinging the bat at it, not knowing what to expect. Semantics do change things a whole lot, and I’m not too worried about it. The problem is that I’m not in the mind of the pitcher or batter, I’m in the mind of myself ... and I’m bored. You know what I’d rather do than watch baseball? Anything. Even laundry. At least that way my clothes would be clean, rather than watching some person who is completely unremark­able in every way except for the fact that he takes gratuitous amounts of steroids and is always spit­ting up brown saliva everywhere. Watching baseball is like torture. 
Georges Toumayan 
junior off campus April 14 
Leprechaun tryouts open to public 
The Final Round of Mascot Tryouts will take place on April 16 at 6 p.m. in “The Pit” basement gym of the JACC. This event is open to all students. 
Come cheer on our 5 finalists and get a first look at who will become the next Fighting Irish Leprechaun. 
Daniel Colt Collins 
senior Alumni Hall April 14 

The Observer 
Scene

page 12 Friday, April 16, 2010 
By KATHERINE GREENSPON 
Scene Writer 

Good documentaries are known for having great footage and exclusive interviews, but one doc­umentary in particular has single-handedly redefined what it means to document. The American documentary “The Cove” is a power­ful message to the world about what occurs behind closed doors, or in this film’s case, coves. 
This 92-minute film captures raw footage of the brutal slaughtering techniques Japanese fishermen have been practicing for years on dolphins for marine parks globally and the ille­gal selling of their meat in local fish markets across the small town of Taiji. 
“The Cove” is more a thriller than a docu­mentary, as director and National Geographic photographer Louie Psihoyos explores and uncovers the dirty secrets the Japanese gov­ernment has spent so much money to hide. Psihoyos co-founded the non-profit organiza­tion Oceanic Preservation Society (OPS) that helps protect and bring awareness to the earth’s oceans so they can be appreciated instead of diminished. 
After meeting Mr. Richard O’ Barry, who is best known for his dolphin training skills in the 1960s, Psihoyos formulated a dream team of scientists, world renowned free divers, set builders and a key player in it all, Mr. O’ Barry himself. O’Barry dedicated most of his life to dolphins, training them for the very popular television series, “Flipper.” O’Barry captured all five dolphins for the TV series but when one of his dolphins died in his own arms he took a radical move from training dolphins in captivity to advocating against it. 
This documentary follows a group of environmentalists to the small Japanese fishing town of Taiji where a huge secret lives. Amongst all of the friendly fishing boats and crowded fish markets, a brutal killing of dolphins was taking place, unnoticed and unknown by every whaling committee and marine advocacy organization. 
Every September through March, Taiji fishermen would cast their nets and throw their spears at innocent and helpless dolphins for purchase from marine parks across the world. If they were caught alive they would be sold for up to $150,000. If found dead, their meat would 

illegally be sold in fish markets for $600. 
Disturbing footage in the film revealed Japan’s colossal power over fish markets, where a lucrative portion of them was dedicated to the buying and selling of dolphin flesh, highly poisonous in mercury. This meat would be sold in disguise as the leading whale meat which Japanese townspeople would purchase and unknowingly 
eat, poisoning themselves and their children. The Japanese government did such a good job pro­
tecting the secrets of the cove that many of the local 
Japanese townspeople were not even aware what was 
happening to the dolphins. Concealing the cove were tunnels and barbed wire fences that were strategically placed so outsiders would never be able to enter and discover what was hap­pening. Students who watched the documentary were mortified and stunned that something like this was not deserving of more attention and exposure to the public. “I was near tears watching the dolphins flee for their lives and felt compelled to join the fight against inhuman dolphin slaughter,” sophomore Caitlin Condon said. Sophomore Megan Reardon said, “After watching I could not believe what the Japanese fishermen were getting away with. It was absolutely disgusting and something needs to be done to stop it.” “Aside from ‘Finding Nemo’ no other film about sea life has changed my life more than ‘The Cove,’” junior Matt Coyne said. A genius idea from Psihoyos allowed him to capture the destruction that was being hidden at the cove. By implementing an all-night operation to plant cameras around the cove and under the water, he and his crew were able to capture everything on tape so both governments and whaling committees world­wide would see the brutal killings of the dol­phins in the cove. A successful operation lay in the western­er’s hands as O’Barry visited government meetings and exposed what was happening. Once Psihoyos and O’Barry’s team had evi­dence, the exposure of the slaughtering 
became highly publicized. Through this suspenseful 
and educational documentary more people will become 
aware of what is happening and be motivated to do 
something about it. 
Contact Katherine Greenspon at kgreen01@saintmarys.edu 


By MARISSA FROBES 
Assistant Scene Editor 
The band matt pond PA will perform Saturday at Legends, in the midst of a tour with artists like Ben Folds, Bobby Long and Wintersleep. 
The Indie band formed in 1998 in Philadelphia retains only one original member, who gives the band its name: Matt Pond. More than 15 artists have been a part of the group, but the current cast includes Pond, Chris Hansen, Leslie Sisson, George Souleidis and Brad Gunyon. It seems the band changes to match Pond’s whims at any given time. 
The original quintet released its first album, “Deer Apartments,” in 1998, and ini­tially gained recognition from CDNOW’s competition “Unheard?” for unsigned artists. The follow-up album “Measure” debuted in 2000 and “garnered comparisons to the stripped-down versions of The Cure,” All Music Guide’s Jason Ankeny said. 
As the band constantly changed members, more albums and EPs were released: “I Thought You Were Sleeping EP” (2001), “The Green Fury” (2002) and “The Nature of Maps” (2002). 
Gaining more attention throughout the next couple of years, matt pond PA toured with artists such as Keane, Ted Leo & the Pharmacists, Liz Phair and Guster. More music ensued simultaneously, includ­ing “Emblems” (2004), “Several Arrows Later” (2005), “Winter Songs EP” (2005) and “Last Light” (2007). 
This band’s impressive discography proves how seri­ous it is about its art. Matt Pond, on the blog on his offi­cial Web site, once scoffed, “sleep ... as if that were possi­ble.” 
Matt pond PA is also extremely gracious to their fans. In November 2008, they posted “The Freeep” as a free download on their website for 10 months. It was later re-released as “Auri Sacra Fames” on iTunes and Amazon MP3. 
A few other limited edition EPs have been released since 2008 along with the band’s lat­est album, “The Dark Leaves,” which dropped April 13. Props to Legends for reeling the band in only four days after its most recent debut. 
The album has reaped pretty indifferent reviews so far. David Peisner of Spin maga­zine characterizes some songs as having “a genuinely com­forting warmth” but admits that the album overall appeals to “mildly depressed, post-col­legiate junior copywriters with cool haircuts.” Not exactly five stars, but not a complete roast of the music either. 
Matt pond PA is a big name for Legends, and it will be interesting to see what the band chooses to perform on Saturday. With a massive amount of music to its name, the band will surely promote its new album, but might hark back to some of its earlier hits as well. 
Contact Marissa Frobes at mfrobes@nd.edu 

ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scene

Friday, April 16, 2010 page 13 

By ADRIANA PRATT 
Associate Scene Editor 






Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 


By NICK ANDERSON 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Every year, there comes a week­end when you are contractually obligated to perform a certain task. In other words, YA GOTTA REGATTA! Hailed as one of ESPN’s Top 100 college student activities, the Fisher Regatta is a celebration of spring time, swimming suits, brats and sunshine — basically every­thing warm. What better way is there to spend a sunny Saturday afternoon than taking in a competitive race featuring your fellow students? 
Beginning in the dark ages of 1987, this single elimination boat race is sure to feature crafts ranging from the sleek and sexy to the bulky and impractical. While many will approach the day with dreams of vic­tory and glory, all but one team will see their hopes sink beneath the choppy water of St. Mary’s lake. O’Neill and Badin, the respective winners of last year’s men’s and women’s brackets, are expected to put on a strong show as challengers close in from all sides. 
Beginning at the crack of one o’clock, the event has more to feature than just thrilling nautical theatrics. Fisher Hall will be out in force, grilling absurd amounts of delicious meat for those willing to wait in line. Coca Cola, a regu­lar sponsor, will be providing ice-cold soda to quench the thirsts of all those parched by the midday sun. The scent of fresh lake air is sure to compliment the delec­
table offerings providing the best meal this side of Eddy Street. The men of Fisher Hall have been promoting the event like men on a 
mission. Supporting the traditional seafaring hairstyle (a Mohawk), hordes of Fishermen have descended on the dining hall and even DeBartolo to cajole any ran­dom passerby into attending Saturday afternoon. In 
addition to their hard work, the Regatta has taken on a life of its own. Weeks prior to Fisher’s promotion, signs have appeared in the entrances of various dorms, seek­ing each resident to participate in the construc­tion of their vessel. Consistently drawing an entry from every dorm, the Regatta is not only one of the more entertaining events on cam­
pus, but also one of the best attended. 
The residents of Fisher hall have been preparing in their own unique style for Saturday’s event with Fred and Sally. Named for the benefactors of 
Fisher Hall, the honorable Fred and Sally 
Fisher, the week consists of brother­hood, competition and a special appearance by University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. Fisher Hall truly lets loose to properly 
show respect and gratitude to those who made their living quarters possible. While some of the events may cause your mother to blush, they are all in good fun. 
Teddy Schaefer, one of the event’s commis­sioners, has high hopes for this year’s race. 
“We’ve put in a lot of work, but it’ll pay off,” he said. “The Regatta’s always the biggest dorm event and we intend to keep it that way.” 
When asked about the prospects of Fisher’s entry following last year’s fateful sinking of their traditional Styrofoam craft, Schaefer responded, “Oh, we’re fast,” before staring down every man, woman and child in sight. 
Great things and times are expected to be had by all this Saturday. Year in and out, Fisher Hall delivers entertainment and compe­tition unparalleled by any other dorm event. So get off your butt, mosey on down to St. Mary’s Lake, enjoy the freakishly awesome 
weather, eat some appetizing bratwurst and take in the 
best competitive spirit Notre Dame has to offer. 
Contact Nick Anderson at nanders5@nd.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Friday, April 16, 2010 
NBA 
NBA 
Unheralded players 

Ginobili glad to be healthy 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO — Forget that the San Antonio Spurs are com­ing off their worst regular sea­son in 13 years, or that Tim Duncan was a rookie when they last began the playoffs on the road. 
Coach Gregg Popovich, in his typically dry we’ll-win-or-we­won’t way, flatly summed up why that doesn’t matter. 
“I always feel better going into the playoffs when Manu is healthy,” he said. 
He hasn’t been able to say that in two years. 
For the first time since San Antonio won their last champi­onship in 2007, Ginobili will begin the playoffs fully healthy Sunday in Game 1 against Dallas, in a rematch of last year’s first-round series that the Argentine missed entirely. 
No more sore left ankle. No fractured right ankle. No strains or aches. 
What the Spurs have instead is Ginobili playing through one the most dazzling stretches of his eight-year career. The 32­year-old is averaging 21.4 points since the All-Star break, eight points better than the first half of the season. 
“That’s the kind of play we expect from him,” Duncan said. “I know he’s been working hard to get back to that level. To see him there, I’m happy for him.” 
Ginobili ’s play since February 
could affect playoffs 

forced the “I always feel better hobbled on a sore scorer. But Jefferson, averaging 
star, Brandon Roy, hobbling on 

Spurs to sign ankle through the just 12.8 points, didn’t provide 
a knee injured last weekend, 

going into the
him to a 3-2008 playoffs that the offensive punch like San 
Miller might have to take on an 

playoffs when Manu’s 
year, $39 mil-ended in the West Antonio hoped, and the Spurs 
even greater role in the post-

lion extension healthy.” semifinals. Or last stumbled with a revamped ros­
season. 

last week, year, when Ginobili ter. 
And don’t forget Matt Barnes, 

after it long sat out with a frac-But as Ginobili improved as 
who brought some much-need-

Gregg Popovich 
appeared they ture in his other the season wore on, so did the 
ed toughness to the Orlando 

Spurs coach 
would let him ankle while the Spurs. Ginobili has also saved 
Magic, a team that always 

Associated Press 
ATLANTA — Jamal Crawford finished the regular season at the end of the Atlanta Hawks’ bench, barely noticed as he rested up for his first trip to the playoffs. 
It’s a position he’s gotten used to in his career. 
“Under the radar, right?” Crawford joked in the locker room after Wednesday night’s game against Cleveland, decked out in a snazzy suit rather than a uniform. 
He’ll get plenty of playing 
time now that the postseason is 
here. 
About ‘bout a little love? 
While Shaq, ‘Sheed and Vince got most of the attention last summer when they switched teams, it was three more anonymous transactions that might wind up having a bigger impact on the NBA play­offs. 
Start with Crawford, finally playing for a winner after near­ly a decade. He has emerged as one of the league’s best sixth men for the Hawks, giving a team that methodically assem­bled its starting five some much-needed scoring punch off 
year-old legs whenever possi-But settling for seventh this 
the bench. ble. year was more disappointing. 
Then there’s Andre Miller, Ginobili was fine, but With Ginobili’s health in doubt 
who signed to be a backup in Popovich took no after last season, the Spurs 
Portland and forced the Trail chances. aggressively spent on Richard 
Blazers to trade away the guy Not after Ginobili Jefferson to bring in another 
ahead of him. With the team’s 
become a free agent this summer for the first time in his career. 
The Spurs had been skittish about Ginobili’s health and durability. Now they’re counting on him to get them through the playoffs as a No. 7 seed, the lowest in the Duncan era. 
“What happened in the last couple months made them think I had to stay,” Ginobili said. 
So important is Ginobili, whose brilliant second half of the season has carried San Antonio to a 17-8 record since March, that Popovich sat his second-leading scorer in Wednesday’s regular season finale against the Mavericks. 
The Spurs still had a chance at moving up to No. 6 in the West. Duncan also sat out, though over the last two years, San Antonio has seized every chance to rest his creaky 33­the Spurs this long to get things right. 
Mavs  ripped  his best for the best: in wins  seemed a little too soft to go all  
through the Spurs  over division leaders Cleveland,  the way. Not anymore, not with  
in five games.  Boston, Orlando, Denver and  Barnes mixing it up with oppo­ 
“We’ve had playoffs where  the Los Angeles Lakers, Ginobili  nents, fans—even his  own  
Timmy hasn’t played, where  averaged 29.6 points.  coach.  
Manu hasn’t played, where  The Spurs have played 88  “I play every game like it’s  
Timmy’s been half-speed, where  playoff games since winning  my last,” Barnes said. “I really  

Manu’s been  their second  
half-speed for a  championship in  
variety of rea-sons,” Popovich said. “We’re entering this  “I never thought he was going to be a different player or a  2003. Only once in that span has a player other than Duncan,  
playoff pretty healthy except  worse player.”  Ginobili or Tony Parker led the  
for George (Hill) and I didn’t want to screw that  Gregg Popovich Spurs coach  Spurs in scoring in a playoff game.  
up.”  Far as the  
After all, it took  Spurs are con- 

The last time the Spurs didn’t start the postseason with home-court advantage was 1998, when 56 wins was only good enough for the fifth seed. 
cerned, it’s Ginobili’s turn again. 
“Coaches think all kinds of crazy things,” Popovich said. “But I never thought he was going to be a different player or a worse player. He just needed time to get his rhythm back.” 
feel blessed to be in a position I am, to even have an opportuni­ty to play in the league. I take nothing for granted. I just go out there and put my hard work out there every night.” 
What about all those big names who traded uniforms last summer? 
Well, Shaquille O’Neal hasn’t played for the Cavaliers since late February because of a thumb injury, so the jury’s still out on whether he’ll be able to help LeBron James capture the only thing missing in his career, an NBA title. 
Rasheed Wallace was sup­posed to help Boston get back in the mix for another champi­onship, but the Celtics hobbled to the finish line looking tired and old, managing only the No. 4 seed in the East. Wallace is just a shell (9 points, 4.1 rebounds a game) of the fear­some, griping player he was on that title team in Detroit. 
Vince Carter has been the best of the bunch, doing pretty much what was expected of him in Orlando as a high-flying complement to the beast of the backboards, Dwight Howard. Even so, the Magic might not have been they are (No. 2 in the East and primed for anoth­er chance to get at Cleveland in the conference finals) if not for Barnes and two other unsung members of the roster, Jason Williams and Ryan Anderson, who have developed into valu­able backups. 
Barnes had already been with Phoenix, Golden State, New York, Philadelphia, Sacramento and the Los Angeles Clippers when he signed with the Magic for the bargain-basement price of $1.7 million (with an option for next season). Williams signed after sitting out last season, while Anderson was a throw-in to the blockbuster deal with brought Carter from New Jersey. 
“They’re never really men­tioned, and I don’t know why,” said Carter, whose team opens the playoffs Sunday hosting Charlotte. “They have been very important pieces for this team, and we wouldn’t be where we are right now with­out all these other pieces that were brought here in the off­season.” 
Crawford has put up some excellent number in his career, including nearly 21 points a game for the Knicks two years ago. But playing with one awful team after another obscured his good work and left him wondering if he’d ever make it the playoffs (only two other players in NBA history had played more games without getting there). 
Finally, in his 10th season, Crawford has made it to the promised land with the Hawks, who merely had to give up two warm bodies (Acie Law and Speedy Claxton) to a Golden State team looking to clear some cap space last summer. Atlanta has improved every year since a 13-win debacle in 2004-05, and getting Crawford helped them push to 53 victo­ries and the No. 3 seed in the East. 
The Hawks will face the Milwaukee Bucks in a best-of­seven series that opens Saturday. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

New upscale apts. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do “GET OFF MY PHONE!” Darling 2 bedroom, 2 bathroom cot-not go it alone. ———————————————­FOR RENT Less than 1 mil from ND, next to tage with hard wood floors, front PERSONAL Hijinks, only three weeks away. Taco Bell on SR 933. 2-story, 8 unit porch and patio, close to Eddy St. Notre Dame has many resources in Can you wait? I can’t. Bed &amp; bkfast, bldg. Commons. place to assist you. ———————————————­
If you or someone you care about “No, no, we did not have a moment 2 br 1 full bath; home 10 min. from Each has 2bd/2bath. GE appli-has been sexually assaulted, we If you or someone you love needs at the dinner table, Todd!” ND. ances w/dishwasher. 1334 Corby Blvd, available for sum-can help. confidential support or assistance, ———————————————-
Mstr. bdrm w/walkin closet. No mer months short term lease. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 “HEY MOM! CAN WE GET SOME Any time. Negotiable rate. water/sewer bill. or Ann Firth at 1-2685. MEATLOAF?” 
May, June, July For more information, visit Notre ———————————————­Call Kay $1000/mo starting. C Dame's website: For more information, visit ND's Please don't take a turn to negative 574-229-6223. $600 per month. web site: town. ——————————————— all Holiday Inn Express @ 968-———————————————­gradrentals.viewwork.com 8080 &amp; leave msg. Call 574-309.6961. http.csap.nd.edu http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu Laura took the fun away from here. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ———————————————-———————————————-———————————————­
Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 

Friday, April 16, 2010 page 15 
Men’s Division I Baseball USA Today Poll 
team previous 
1 Arizona State 1 2 UCLA 3 3 Virginia 5 4 Texas 6 5 Georgia Tech 2 6 LSU 4 7 Florida State 8 8 Arkansas 10 9 Florida 9 10 Coastal Carolina 13 11 TCU 12 12 Louisville 7 13 South Carolina 17 14 Oklahoma 16 15 Miami 14 16 Clemson 11 17 Oregon State 15 18 Mississippi 18 19 Vanderbilt 19 20 Kansas State 20 21 Arizona 22 22 Western Kentucky NR 23 Southeastern La. 24 24 Cal St. Fullerton NR 25 UC Irvine 21 
Men’s Division I Outdoor Track USTFCCCA Poll 
team previous 
1 Florida 1 2 Texas A&M 2 3 Oregon 3 4 Texas Tech 5 5 Florida State 4 6 Southern California 6 7 Auburn 7 8 LSU 8 9 South Carolina 11 10 Arizona State 9 11 Mississippi State 12 12 Nebraska 10 13 Oklahoma 13 14 Baylor 19 15 Louisville 14 16 Virginia Tech 17 17 Mississippi 23 18 Arkansas 15 19 California 18 20 Brigham Young 24 21 Minnesota 20 22 Kansas State NR 23 Washington State 22 24 Tennessee 21 25 Wisconsin 25 


around the dial 
NHL Hockey 

Senators at Penguins 7 p.m., Versus 
Red Wings at Coyotes 10 p.m., Versus 
MLB 

Teams commemorate Jackie Robinson Day 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — On Jackie Robinson Day, all of baseball joined Yankees closer Mariano Rivera in wearing the cher­ished No. 42. 
Everyone in uniform had Robinson’s number on their jerseys Thursday, honoring the 63rd anniversary of the day he broke baseball’s color barrier by taking the field for the Brooklyn Dodgers. 
Major League Baseball retired 42 on the 50th anniver­sary in 1997, but allowed play­ers who already had it to wear the number until they finished their career. Rivera is the only player to still have it, and is distinctly aware of what it means. 
“It’s a privilege, an honor, to be the last one to wear 42, it’s a blessing for me,” the New York closer said. “I definitely have a job to do to represent him well.” 
In a brief ceremony before the Yankees hosted the Los Angeles Angels, Robinson’s widow, Rachel, their daughter, Sharon, and two medical school students on scholar­ships provided by the Jackie Robinson Foundation were honored near home plate. 
A tribute to his legacy was shown on the videoboard and the Yankees’ Robinson Cano and Marcus Thames present­ed Rachel Robinson with a bouquet of flowers. When the public address announcer introduced the starting line­ups, every player was “num­ber 42.” 
IN BRIEF 
Roethlisberger accuser says she told him “no” 
MILLEDGEVILLE, Ga. — The young woman who accused Ben Roethlisberger of sexual assault said she tried to get away from the Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback and told him “no, this is not OK,” accord­ing to police documents released Thursday. 
In a statement to police the day after the encounter, the 20-year-old college student said Roethlisberger told her, and her friends, to take numerous shots of alcohol. Then one of his bodyguards escorted her into a hallway at the Capital City nightclub, sat her on a stool and left. She said Roethlisberger walked down the hallway and exposed himself. 
“I told him it wasn’t ok, no, we don’t need to do this and I proceeded to get up and try to leave,” she said. “I went to the first door I saw, which happened to be a bathroom.” According to her statement, Roethlisberger then followed her into the bathroom and shut the door. 
Robinson’s grandson, Jesse Simms, threw out the ceremo­nial first pitch. 
Around the league, there was an outpouring of respect and admiration for the man who on April 15, 1947, trans­formed America’s pastime — and so much more in the era before the civil rights move­ment. 
“Without Mr. Robinson I wouldn’t be sitting here and President Obama would not be president of the United States,” Blue Jays manager Cito Gaston said in Toronto. “If you really go back and look at this, Mr. Robinson started all this before even Martin Luther King. He went through a lot to make it better for myself and minorities. This is the guy that got it rolling for everybody.” 
Throughout the majors, each club autographed a No. 42 jersey that will be auc­tioned with the proceeds going to the Jackie Robinson Foundation, founded by Rachel Robinson in 1973, a year after he died. 
Even though he was a New York Giants fan growing up in Brooklyn, Los Angeles Dodgers manager Joe Torre under­stood Robinson’s importance. 
“He really changed baseball. To me, it’s something we should never forget. And I’m happy that Major League Baseball is certainly never going to let it go away,” Torre said in Los Angeles. “They retired No. 42, and I think it’s a great tribute to him — not only as a player, but the individual he was.” 
Bird says he does not know of Pacers’ relocation plans 
INDIANAPOLIS — Pacers presi­dent Larry Bird says he has received calls from people interest­ed in buying and moving the team. 
Bird adds, however, that despite questions about the franchise’s sta­bility he’s never heard team owner Herb Simon say he would relocate the club. 
The Pacers are losing money and team officials have been talking with the city about the $15 million a year it costs the club to operate Conseco Fieldhouse. 
Bird also said Thursday that coach Jim O’Brien would return despite a third straight losing sea­son. Bird says part of the rebuild­ing process includes retaining the coach. 
The Pacers finished the season Wednesday with a 32-50 record, their worst since 1988-89. They missed the playoffs for the fourth straight year. 
Bosh, set to become free 
agent, unsure of future plans 
TORONTO — With the Toronto Raptors out of the playoff picture, the focus now shifts to Chris Bosh’s uncertain future with the team. 
The star forward is set to become an unrestricted free agent this sum­mer, but says he has yet to make a decision on his future. 
Bosh spoke a day after the Raptors closed out the regular season with a win over the New York Knicks on Wednesday night. Toronto finished one game behind Chicago for the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Division. 
Bosh also said the ability of the Raptors to build a winner around him is important. He enters the off­season as the franchise leader in points (9,275) and rebounds (4,450). 
This year’s free agent class also includes LeBron James and Dwyane Wade. 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 16, 2010 
MLB 

Pelfrey’s strong day pushes Mets past Rockies 
De La Rosa cools off; Twins batter Wakefield while Liriano shuts down Red Sox; Hoffman guts out tough save 
slider. We needed that.” ed double steal, and Reyes was 2.08 ERA out of the gate. Against Hoffman, who blew his last two 
Associated Press 
Pedro Feliciano and Francisco thrown out trying to steal third the Red Sox, he scattered four chances, entered in the ninth 

DENVER — Going against one Rodriguez each pitched a hitless before David Wright struck out hits and struck out eight. inning Thursday with a three-of baseball’s hottest pitchers, inning to finish New York’s first to end the inning. “He was really good,” said run lead. Two flyballs eluded the Mike Pelfrey took the mound shutout of the season and the “Those are some things we’ll Boston’s Bill Hall, who drew the Brewers for doubles, letting in a with the mindset he was going to first shutout of the Rockies at address,” Mets manager Jerry only two walks against Liriano. run, before baseball’s career have to be at his best. Coors Field since Sept. 6, 2008, Manuel said of the team’s base-“He should be really proud of saves leader ended things by 
That approach worked out just by Houston. running mistakes. “We don’t himself. He’s definitely got his old retiring Aramis Ramirez on a fine for him and the New York The only team not to be shut mind the aggression, but we stuff back.” drive to deep center. Mets. out at home last season, the have to be a little smarter about Liriano thought so, too. “Guys are playing their butts 
Pelfrey pitched seven solid Rockies were of little help to De it.” “I haven’t felt like that since off out there. Things happen,” innings and hit an RBI single in La Rosa (1-1), who struggled probably ’06,” he said. Hoffman said after he had to helping the Mets beat the with his control while allowing Twins 8, Red Sox 0 With help from the calming throw 29 pitches to lock up Rockies 5-0 on Thursday while five runs and eight hits over six Francisco Liriano’s nickname influence of his catcher, Mauer, Milwaukee’s 8-6 victory. “Balls cooling off Colorado starter Jorge innings. He walked five and as a rookie for Minnesota was Liriano worked out of one-out, found little spots to land. You just De La Rosa, whose 17 wins since threw two wild pitches that fig-“The Franchise,” reflecting his two-on trouble in the first two have to continue to make pitch-June 1 are the most in the ured in a pair of runs. immediate success in 2006 frames. Then he reached back es. It was important to get that majors. De La Rosa threw seven before his elbow began to hurt. for one of those trademark slid-win.” 
“Going into the day, I felt like I shutout innings in his first outing Four years later, the fortunes ers to strike out Jeremy Hermida It was an unusually hot mid-had to be on top of my game of the season against San Diego of the Twins could still be strong-and end the seventh with one on. April day in Chicago—80 degrees because De La Rosa is pretty and was 5-0 with a 2.49 ERA in ly tied to Liriano’s left arm. “We’ve seen that before,” at first pitch — and the wind was good,” Pelfrey said. “I thought I his previous eight starts before Liriano threw seven shutout Gardenhire said. “You always blowing out at 18 mph. The con-did a good job locating my fast-facing New York. innings, and the Twins took the hope you’re going to get a pitch-ditions caused extra nervousness ball and the split was big today. I “I didn’t throw enough first series at Target Field with er back after a major surgery for Brewers manager Ken got some big outs with it. It’s a strikes,” De La Rosa said. an 8-0 victory over the sloppy like that. He’s still got a ways to Macha, whose team frittered start I can build off of and con-In contrast, De La Rosa said Boston Red Sox on Thursday. go, but his stuff is there. There’s away a three-run, eighth-inning tinue to get better. I’m just glad it Pelfrey “stayed in the strike zone While going 5-13 with a 5.80 no doubt about it.” lead Wednesday. worked out.” and got us out. He did his job.” ERA last year, Liriano gave up at Perhaps most encouraging for “With the wind blowing out, 
Pelfrey (2-0) allowed five hits, Pelfrey was in control through-least one run in each of his 24 the Twins was Liriano’s trust in everybody was sitting on the struck out six and walked none out on the mound but he had a starts. Boston was averaging his fastball against the patient edge of their seats,” he said. as the Mets ended a four-game wild time on the bases after more than five runs a game this Red Sox and the quick pace of “And I know right field here … a skid. Only two of the Rockies’ drawing a leadoff walk in the season. his outing, resulting in a 2-hour, terrible sun field.” hits got out of the infield. third. He advanced to second on “That’s our wild card. I feel 38-minute game. He wasn’t over-With one out in the ninth, right 
“He’s pitching with some confi-a wild pitch and moved to third like we’ll be as strong as he is,” ly reliant on that trusty slider. fielder Corey Hart lost sight of dence,” said the Mets’ Jeff on Jose Reyes’ single. When Luis said Nick Punto, who had three “My arm feels better. I just Ryan Theriot’s fly and the ball Francouer, who singled twice Castillo followed with a grounder of Minnesota’s 15 hits. have my confidence back,” ended up behind Hart. Then, and scored a run to extend his to third, Pelfrey broke for home. Every Twins starter had a hit Liriano said. with two outs, Chad Tracy hit a season-opening hitting streak to Ian Stewart chased him down except batting champ Joe Mauer. Wakefield (0-1) is 14-6 lifetime popup that fell between Hart and nine games. the line but his throw glanced off Denard Span turned two of Tim against the Twins, including a 7-second baseman Rickie Weeks, 
“He knows how good he is, Pelfrey’s shoulder and deflected Wakefield’s knuckleballs into RBI 4 mark at the Metrodome, where each of whom got a late jump. what kind of stuff he has. He’s 6-off catcher Miguel Olivo’s glove doubles, and Michael Cuddyer the float on his knuckler often “You can’t take anything for 7, pretty intimidating on the for an error that gave the Mets a homered and drove in three proved more baffling than usual. granted,” Brewers third base-mound. I’ve told him, ‘Don’t let 2-0 lead. runs. He didn’t fool very many batters man Casey McGehee said. guys just dig in there,’ and I “I’d rather have done it in a The Twins have won their first in this one, giving up 10 hits and “Those popups look innocent … thought he did a great job, back-different place, because I was three series of the season, the six runs in 5 1-3 innings. then all of a sudden they turn ing guys off the plate today and getting pretty winded running first time that’s happened since “It has nothing to do with into an adventure.” throwing the split-finger and the bases. It’s pretty hard to 1987, the year of their first being outside or inside. I just did-McGehee and Ryan Braun each 
breathe here,” in the high alti-World Series championship. n’t have good stuff,” Wakefield homered and drove in three tude, Pelfrey said with a smile. “These guys believe in them-said. runs. Weeks singled home the 
The error kept New York from selves, and they’re trying to go It was that kind of afternoon tiebreaking run in the seventh as having three outs registered on out and prove it on the field,” for the Red Sox, who left a total the Brewers overcame home the basepaths in the inning. manager Ron Gardenhire. of five runners in scoring posi-runs by Derrek Lee, Marlon Byrd Castillo was tagged out going for Including Liriano (1-0), who tion and made three errors in and Ramirez and avoided a second, apparently on an abort-has struggled to find his confi-the field—plus another flub that three-game sweep. 

dence as much as his control and led to a Twins run in the sixth..” It was 5-all in the seventh his velocity since needing Tommy when pinch-hitter Joe Inglett John surgery after that unforget-Brewers 8, Cubs 6 drew a two-out walk from Jeff table 2006 season. The wind, the sun, the Chicago Samardzija (0-1), stole second 
He threw well in Dominican Cubs and his own Milwaukee and scored on Weeks’ single. winter ball, kept it up in spring teammates made Trevor Weeks, who underwent season-training and despite a so-so per-Hoffman work extra hard for ending wrist surgery last May 20 formance in his first start has a career save No. 594. and had two disappointing years 


before that, has at least one hit in every game this season. 
After Carlos Villanueva struck out the side in the Chicago sev­enth, Braun led off the eighth with a homer off Samardzija. Braun, who also singled three times, has 26 RBIs in 26 games at Wrigley Field. 
Cubs starter Carlos Zambrano and Milwaukee’s Jeff Suppan each allowed four runs in five innings. 
Zambrano labored, throwing 121 pitches, giving up eight hits and walking three. Though he got cramps in his calf and right index finger in his final inning, he said the wind was a far bigger hindrance. 
“I’ve been here for eight years,” he said, “and I know that I have to keep the ball down when the wind’s blowing out.” 
The $91.5 million right-hander, coming off a nine-win season, actually lowered his ERA to 9.45. 
Cubs manager Lou Piniella is more concerned about a relief corps that has a 6.41 ERA after Samardzija allowed two runs and Sean Marshall and John Grabow let in one apiece. 
“It’s hard to win when the other team keeps adding runs,” Piniella said. “The bullpen’s got to tighten it up.” 


Friday, April 16, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
SMC GOLF 

Nation’s best to test Belles this weekend 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
The biggest tournament of the spring season to date arrives this weekend for the No. 5 Belles, who travel to Normal, Ill., to compete in the Illinois Wesleyan Spring Fling Invitational. 
The tournament will be hotly contested, with a large num­ber of high-quality teams in attendance at a competition that could play a large role in the Belles’ postseason hopes and performance. 
“It’s an important tourna­ment for us,” Belles coach Mark Hamilton said. “It’s a good showcase event for the Midwest — five of the top 12 teams in the country will be there.” 
Not only will Saint Mary’s use the tournament as a meas­uring stick for its progress against the nation’s best, but the results of the tournament could also have a direct effect on the Belles’ postseason. If Saint Mary’s does not qualify for the national champi­onships through the MIAA qualifier, its performance in this tournament could deter­mine whether they receive an at-large bid. And if they earn the MIAA bid, this tournament will affect the Belles’ seeding during the NCAA champi­onships. 

The tournament will be con­tested at Ironwood Golf Club, a straightforward open course known for allowing low scores. Its length will be the largest obstacle for golfers, and the fairways are open enough that a wayward drive may still be playable — in essence, a course layout that favors the Belles, Hamilton said. 
“Some of our players hit the ball longer than some of the opposing teams which means sometimes it’s a little more crooked,” he said. “This golf course is pretty wide open and benign. I feel it’ll lend itself to our game.” 
The back nine is more diffi­cult than the front nine, which could make for an interesting tournament dynamic, with late-round challenges possible. Low scores, however, are there for the taking, making it likely that the winner of this tournament is the team that has the best two days with the putter on the slow, relatively flat greens, Hamilton said. 
“It’s usually a shootout at this tournament,” Hamilton said. “It comes down to who­ever can putt the best, because scores tend to be low.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
MEN’S GOLF 
Championships loom large 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
In a game where the ability to control one’s emotions is paramount, the Irish have reaped the rewards of main­taining their composure this season. But under the surface, a competitive drive fuels Notre Dame as they prepare for the Big East championships Sunday. 
“Obviously kids come to Notre Dame for the education, the experience, but they come to play for championships,” Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. “That’s the opportunity we have this weekend, and we’re excited.” 
Notre Dame is coming off one of its closest victories of the year, a 292-298 win against Detroit Mercy Wednesday in the Battle at the Warren. The Irish received contributions up and down the lineup, a good sign for a team hitting its stride in the final stretch of the season. 
“In the spring season we’re absolutely playing our best golf right now. I like the way our short game has been of late, we’re really coming around,” Kubinski said. “It should really fit us assuming we go down there with a good mental mindset and just play well.” 
The tournament will be played on Innisbrook Resort and Golf Club, a traditionally difficult course that can quick­ly expose any weaknesses in a golfer’s game. Kubinski said he believes the ability to drive the ball off the tee will be key in setting the Irish up for success this weekend. 

“It’s a very challenging golf course, very long,” Kubinski said. “We’re going to play probably at 7,300 to 7,400 yards. You’re going to have to obviously drive it well there. It’s like any tournament, you have to follow up, but on that golf course length will definite­ly be a factor.” 
The Irish are led by senior Doug Fortner and sophomore Tom Usher, who both carded the lowest score of the day Wednesday at 69. Fifth-year senior Josh Sandman is also an important contributor who brings a level head and much needed playoff experience to the squad. 
In addition to the talent on the links, the Irish have an additional factor working in their factor. 
“Every year Phil Mickelson has won the Masters, we win the Big East, so it’s a good omen,” Kubinski said. “If that means anything, we’ll take it.” 
The Irish tee off in the Big East championships Tuesday in Palm Harbor, Fla. The tour­nament concludes Tuesday. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 16, 2010 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles welcome Kalamazoo 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
The Belles enter their third match of the week looking to halt a three-match losing streak when they face off at Kalamazoo College Saturday. 
Saint Mary’s faces Kalamazoo annually, but this year’s edition has some added importance with the MIAA championships only two weeks away. 
The week started with a 9-0 loss to No. 3 Chicago Monday. Each singles player lost in straight sets against the Maroons. 
The Belles lost a hard fought 6-3 decision to Albion College Wednesday to fall to 8-6 on the season, with a 2-2 conference record. 
Senior captain Camille Gebert defeated Anna Gundersen 6-4, 7-5 at No. 2 singles. No. 4 singles play­er Franca Peluso beat Morgan Watler in straight sets as the jun­ior continued to produce for the Belles. 
The only other Saint Mary’s vic­tory was the doubles combination of Jillian Hurley and Mary Therese Lee. They defeated Cassie Simmelink and Sarah Towler 8-6. 
After they play their third con­secutive road game Saturday, the Belles will return home to host home matches next Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, when they welcome Hope, Bethel and Adrian, respectively, to campus. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Adrian sweeps pair of contests 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s fell twice to Adrian in a doubleheader 14-3 and 9-0 in a MIAA doubleheader Thursday. 
The Bulldogs (21-5, 7-1 MIAA) scored in the first inning of the first game, as the Belles (16-14, 5­
3) gave up a two-run home run. Saint Mary’s answered with two runs of its own in the bottom half of the first inning. 
Adrian continued its offensive push, with five more runs over the next three innings, taking a com­fortable lead. 
Saint Mary’s squeaked out one more run, but when Adrian scored six more runs in the final two innings of play, the 14-3 deficit was too much to overcome. 
In the second game, Adrian defeated the Belles 9-0 in five innings of play. The Bulldogs picked up right were they left off in the first game as they increased their run total per inning eventu­ally tapering off at five runs in the fourth inning. 
Sophomore Angela Gills suf­fered the loss in the second game as she allowed twelve hits and had one strikeout. Senior Ashley Peterson broke yet another school record for the Belles as she had three RBI on the afternoon. She now holds the record for the most RBI in a season, which was set as recently as 2007. 
Saint Mary’s will travel to Olivet on Saturday to take on the Comets in a pivotal MIAA matchup. The Belles will be looking to redeem lost ground in the conference standings in the doubleheader. Olivet is just behind Saint Mary’s in the conference standings and a Belles loss in the first game would put them both at 5-4 in confer­ence play. 
Saint Mary’s and Olivet will meet Saturday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 
Irish travel to Florida, look for league crown 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame looks to compete for the title in the Big East championships as it heads to Palm Harbor, Fla., for a three-round tournament starting Sunday. 
The Irish are hoping to come out strong as they bring back some 
experience from “Our biggest put us in a great last year’s tourna-position to win.” 
competition this
ment. Senior The Big East 
week will be with
Annie Brophy and championships will sophomore So-ourselves.” pose a tough chal-Hyun Park both lenge for the Irish. tied for ninth There will be many 
Susan Holt
place in last year’s strong teams there 
Irish coach
championships. looking to capture 
confident right now. She has played very steady all spring.” 
Brophy is not the onlybright spot on the team entering the tournament. Holt said the depth of the team could spark the team to a strong showing. 
“I look for [junior] Katie Conway and So-Hyun Park to play a key role in our success this tournament,” Holt said. “I think if both of them show up it will 
Both Brophy and Park will be in the hunt for the individual title this year. 
Brophy was named Big East Golfer of the Week on Wednesday for her performance at the SunTrust Gator Invitational. She recorded an 11th-place finish, her fourth top­15 finish of the season. 
“Annie winning Big East play­er of the week honors this past week puts her in a good place mentally going into the champi­onship,” Irish coach Susan Holt said. “Playing well builds confi­dence, and I think she is very the title, but the Irish 
know what they need to do to win. Entering the tournament with the right mind­set will make all the difference. 
“Our biggest competition this week will be with ourselves,” Holt said. “As a team we need to stay focused, confident and com­posed for three rounds of golf; if we can do that I think we will get the result we want.” 
The Irish tee off in Florida Sunday, and the tournament concludes Tuesday. 
Contact Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 


Friday, April 16, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish fnish home schedule 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
The No. 12 Irish will close out their first home season at Arlotta Stadium Saturday as they take on Cincinnati while looking to build on last weekend’s home sweep of Villanova and Syracuse. 
Notre Dame’s rejuvenated defense held Villanova and Syracuse scoreless for a com­bined 98 minutes before a sec­ond-half goal by Syracuse ended the streak. 
“We’ve played such dominating defense it wasn’t even funny,” Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. “In the Villanova game they hardly even touched the ball for the first twenty minutes. Our top four defenders were in key one-on­one matchups against Syracuse and they played well and just made the unit that much stronger.” 

The coaching staff and the players have worked hard all week in practice to maintain the defensive effort against the Bearcats and beyond, Coyne said. 
“We have little aspects to work on defensively,” she said. “Right off the draw, if we lose a draw, we want to work on causing a turnover right away and getting control back. Right now, our mindset is that we’re in the posi­tion to control our destiny as the season winds down. I don’t know how you can’t be focused when you’re in this position.” 
A string of recent victories that started with a thrilling last sec­ond victory against Loyola has pushed the Irish (8-4, 4-1 Big East) into second place in the conference, and Coyne is thrilled with the outlook for the rest of the season, provided the Irish keep up their strong play. 

“Georgetown is undefeated, but they have some tough games, including against Syracuse, com­ing up,” Coyne said. “We only have three conference games left and although they are huge games we have gotten most of our tougher competition out of the way. Rutgers will be a big game on the road, but if we win out we’ll be looking at first or second place in the Big East.” 
The game against the Bearcats will be a litmus test for the Irish offense, which scored six goals in an abnormally low-scoring game against Syracuse. Junior mid­fielder Shaylyn Blaney leads the Irish with 23 goals on the season, while senior Gina Scioscia and junior Kailene Abt each have notched 21 goals on the year. Coyne said the offense has cleaned up their attack as the year has progressed. 
“We’re controlling the ball bet­ter,” Coyne said. “We’re really limiting our turnovers, I think we’re down seven or eight turnovers a game recently. If there’s one thing we can improve it’s our shooting percentage, that’s what we really need to work on.” 
The Irish will enter the home­stretch of the regular season as they face the Bearcats Saturday at 3 p.m. at Arlotta Stadium. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 
Bayliss heads to Navy for emotional reunion 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will be back on the road this weekend to face Navy in Annapolis, Md., in a match that holds special significance for both teams. 
Not only is Saturday’s match the last for Notre Dame (12-11) before the Irish head to the Big East championships, but it is also a reunion of Irish coach Bobby Bayliss’ former Navy players from his 15 seasons coaching there from 1970 to 1984. 
“Navy is a special match for me,” Bayliss said. “The Academy is bringing back people who played under me there. It’s a reunion of sorts for me and a chance to see players I haven’t in years, all who have gone to be very successful in their lives.” 
Notre Dame is coming off a 5-2 win over Ball State Wednesday, snapping its three-match losing streak to Texas A&M, Ohio State and Louisville. The Irish captured the match after winning the dou­ble point and are now 9-1 when they win that point. 
Not only were the Irish strong on the doubles side, but also in the singles division, winning at Nos. 3,4, 5 and 6. 
Although the Irish moved around some players Wednesday, Bayliss said the points kept com­ing easily for his team, and that speaks to the depth of Notre Dame’s roster. 
“We think we’ve got nine or 10 guys who can play pretty good [at the lower positions],” Bayliss said. “Some of the lower guys are starting to get some confidence, and we’re holding our own the lower we go in the lineup.” 
Not only does this mean Bayliss has options in his team currently, but he also has the promise of continued strength in the future. 
“I think it bodes well for the future, but the problem is at this point I don’t think they can do any better than the guys at 1 and 2,” he said of sophomore Casey Watt and junior Stephen Havens, respectively. 
Without much turnaround time between Wednesday’s home match and when the team hits the road, the Irish were not given much time to practice — but Bayliss said he expects continued improvement. 
“We’ll continue to work on our net play in doubles and be a little more consistent and aggressive up there,” Bayliss said. “It’s dif­ferent for each person.” 
The Irish take on Navy at 1 
p.m. at the Dyer Tennis Clubhouse in Annapolis Saturday in their final regular season match before the conference tournament. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 16, 2010 
Friars 
continued from page 24 
To pull off the victory, the Irish will have to contend with a Providence squad that offers mul­tiple looks in order to gain a tacti­cal advantage — a difficult task to accomplish when the Irish are already struggling with consisten­cy. 
“They do a good job of dictating tempo and mixing up what they’re doing defensively,” Corrigan said. “You have to adjust to what they’re doing because they’ll do a lot of different things in the course of the day.” 
Midfielder Mike Feldberg will be Providence’s most potent scor­ing threat and will probably look to connect with fellow midfielder Jake Nolan, who leads the Friars in assists and points. Providence will try and slow the game down in order to play to their strengths offensively, an uncommon tactic in a typically fast-paced sport, Corrigan said. 
“Offensively they try to take the air out of the ball a little bit and slow things down,” he said. “They’re effective with it, and they’re able to keep themselves close in games.” 
Despite the challenges the Friars pose, the buzzword for the Irish will continue to be consisten­cy as they look to put together a complete game in the season’s home stretch. 
“You can’t be successful [when you’re inconsistent], and that’s been a problem for us throughout this year,” Corrigan said. “We need to try to get on top of them.” 
Notre Dame looks to snap its three-game losing streak at noon Saturday in Arlotta Stadium. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Irish face DePaul, Marquette 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
The No. 5 Irish will wind down the regular season against No. 22 DePaul today before facing Marquette on Senior Day Sunday in the final regular season matches of the year. Seniors Cosmina Ciobanu, Kali Krisik and Colleen Rielley will be honored at the Courtney Tennis Center prior to Sunday’s match. 
The Irish (17-3) come into Friday’s match against DePaul fresh off the defeat of two Top-40 opponents in Texas A&M and South Florida. DePaul (15-3) will offer no respite as they look for revenge after losing 6-1 to the Irish in January. 
“DePaul is pretty tough, this is probably the best year they’ve ever had for their program,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. “We’ve had some real good matches with them, including the Big East Tournament last year. They compete in every match.” 
Leading the Irish into the weekend is sophomore Kristy Frilling, ranked No. 15 in the lat­est ITA singles poll. Frilling recently nabbed her second Big East Player of the Week honor after going 4-0 between first sin­gles and doubles against Texas A&M and South Florida. Louderback said he believes Frilling’s improvement in her sophomore season is due to men­tal toughness. 
“She’s worked very hard this year,” Louderback said. “Going into the year she knew she was going to be number one and the competition is always good up there. Mentally, she’s just been a lot tougher. As a freshman, she struggled in some matches, and in the ones that she lost she real­ly got killed. This year she’s been in every match and has gotten much tougher over the course of the match.” 
Backing up Frilling, Ciobanu has been perfect this season in the middle of the singles lineup, something which Louderback said he believes has contributed to his team’s strong depth. 
“Our depth is very good,” Louderback said. “That’s one of our strengths. When people have been down, others have stepped up and won some big matches for us. Whether its Cosmina, who hasn’t lost a match all season, or Kristen Rafael or Shannon Mathews, our players have hung in their in big matches.” 

Marquette (12-11) has strug­gled to stay above .500 on the season, but the Irish are expect­ing a challenge from the Golden Eagles, especially at first singles from sophomore Gillian Hush. 
“Their record isn’t too good, but they’ve played well against top competition,” Louderback said. “They’re a scrappy bunch and they don’t really have big hit­ters but their singles is particu­larly tough.” 
The Irish look to enter the post­season on a strong note in its matches against DePaul Friday at 5 p.m. and Marquette Sunday at 10 a.m. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 


Friday, April 16, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Defense 
continued from page 24 
count out senior defensive end Emeka Nwankwo, who has been a goal-line presence for the Irish in the past but has not seen significant playing time. 
“We’re going to see him,” Elston said. “He’s a physical, athletic player. He improves every day, and gets at it. He’s going to be a hard guy to keep off the field.” 
Defensive coordinator Bob Diaco said as the defense learns the new installations and the depth chart is sorted out, a player’s attitude and abilities would be more impor­tant than the specific plays. 

“We’re interested in the guys playing defense with the core fundamentals of playing great defense,” he said. “They’ve got to be electric hustling to the football. They’ve got to be fun­damentally sound and aggres­sive in their block destruction. They’ve got to be, in their exe­cution of tackling a person with the ball, they’ve got to be fundamentally sound and they’ve got to have the intent to tackle, which is probably the most important ... So they’ve got to have all those elements, and that’s a whole lot more important than the call, frankly.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
Vikings 
continued from page 24 
tistics or their record, you would have thought that the score would have been a lot closer than it ended up being,” Ganeff said. 
Aside from having a good sea­son, the Vikings also sported Amanda Macenko, one of the best pitchers they have had in program history on the mound Thursday. 
“[Macenko] had better move­ment than a lot of the pitching we’ve seen in the last few weeks,” Ganeff said. “She has the most strikeouts in the history of their program.” 
Along with their success on offense, the Irish excelled on defense against the Vikings as senior pitcher Jody Valdivia and The Vikings are a similar team freshman pitcher Brittany to the Irish, boasting some of the O’Donnell teamed-up to throw a strengths on the field that the Irish one-hitter. demonstrate. 


The coaches arranged for “They are typically a home run O’Donnell to start against the hitting team and steal a lot of Vikings to give bases like us, so for Valdivia a rest our defense to hold before the them to just a few upcoming in-hits, that was really 
“We were able to put 
conference good,” Ganeff said. games against our game together “We were able to put Louisville on our game together 
and dominate.” 
Saturday and and dominate, which Sunday. has been our goal the 
Kris Ganeff
“We tried to whole year.” give [Valdivia] a Irish assistant coach After feeling like game where she they undermined didn’t have to their ability on the throw seven field in their two wins innings,” Ganeff said. “So against Georgetown Wednesday, O’Donnell got in there and did her the Irish turn to this victory as a job.” good confidence boost before their 
next conference game against 
Louisville. 
“We walked away feeling unset­tled because we didn’t show Georgetown what we had,” Ganeff said. “Today, coming out and win­ning against a less competitive opponent restores the confidence and showed us how good we real­ly can be.” 
Next, the Irish will travel to Louisville to take on the Cardinals for three crucial in-conference games Saturday and Sunday. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
Pirates 
continued from page 24 
ior Brian Dupra, sophomore Steve Sabatino and senior Eric Maust each have ERAs over 5.50. 
The Pirates are just a game ahead of the Irish with a 3-6 record in conference compe­tition, and have struggled 
offensively with a batting average of just .244, averag­ing just 3.6 runs per game. 
Senior infielder Michael Rogers leads Seton Hall offensively, batting .308 at the plate with 10 RBIs. Sophomore right -hander Benny Mejia leads the Pirates rotation with a 3.50 ERA, and is 2-1 on the season. 
Schrage said he was con­cerned with the team’s recent preparation heading into the crucial series. 
“There better be a sense of urgency this weekend, because we have some work to do,” Schrage said. 
Notre Dame is 3-7 on the road this season, and will look to gain momentum before Big East homestands against Cincinnati and St. John’s the next two week­ends. 
After that Notre Dame only has two more Big East series remaining. 
Today’s first pitch in East Orange, N.J., will be at 3 p.m., Saturday’s first pitch will be at 1 p.m. and Sunday’s action will start at noon. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 


page 22 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, April 16, 2010 Friday, April 16, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  14  
15  16  
17  18  
19  20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  
27  28  29  30  31  32  33  34  
35  36  37  38  
39  40  41  
42  43  44  
45  46  47  48  
49  50  51  52  
53  54  55  56  57  58  59  60  
61  62  63  64  
65  66  
67  68  


CROSSWORD 
Across 35___ before 
1 Eat up 
6 Partied hearty 
15Heroine of 
Exmoor 
16Course in Russian geography?
17Their points are made bluntly 
18Somethingpassed withouthesitation 
19Topic of TV's“This Old House” 
21Royal Crown, once 
22Slow to mix, say 
23Material for 
many electricguitar bodies
25Peak's counterpart
27Attachment used with care? 
29Dedicated literature 
31Sets off 
37One startingeasily? 
39Cry ofanticipation 
40Moral obligation 
41Dominican capital 

42Gets under someone's skin? 
44Old imperator 
45Verenigde ___ (America, inAmsterdam) 
46Metropolitanhangover? 
48Indians'home,for short 
49Razor brand word 
51He introduced the symbol “e”for natural logs 

53“The Vengeanceof ___” (1968film sequel) 
56Opposite of very 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

S  C A B  B A R K  M E L D S  
M A  M E  A T A N  A C U R A  
E N Y  A  H O C U S P O C U S  
L O T T  O  Z E T A S  R M S  
L E A S H  R E B  L E S E  
S S N  C E  Y  U N  I  T E D  
T A M M  I E  A B  I  T  
A B R A C A  D A B R A  
O L I  O  A N G  L I  A  
K N O L L S  E  I  S  O T T  
O P E L  A B C  C  A N E A  
M A V  A L O H A  O W  E N S  
O P E N S E S A M E  A O  U T  
D E R E K  O L  I  N  I  N R  E  
O R A L S  X K E S  T E E D  

The circled letters, when rearranged, spell PLEASE. 
58One suspendedfor a game 
61Worked together 
64First name in rap 
65Debate 
66Was snail-like 
67Hoax 
68“___ trouble!” 
Down 
1 Schwalm-___ (German district) 2 “Ixnay” 3 Fighter in oldstrips 4 Magic center, once 5 Admission statement 
6 Word from one who isn't following 
7 “East of Eden” son 8 In no way new 9 Its letters maybe bolted down 10Like much filet mignon 11 Fried 
12Roles on “Evening Shade”and “Nip/Tuck” 
13Meyers of“Saturday NightLive” 
14Its ruins are a Unesco World Heritage Site 
20Fans sporting a footwear logo 
24Make a comeback 
26Yom Kippur Warparticipant 
WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Puzzle by Tim Croce  
27 Pays  34 Chain link?  55 Mech. master  
28 Show respect, in a way 30 They might spangenerations 32 Tool often used while wearinggloves 33 Like some  36 Country singerAkins 38 Rum, to some 43 Wool cover-ups 47 Bug 50 Do intaglio, e.g. 52 Harden: Var. 53 It takes folks in  57 Weddingcouple? 59 Something to getcaught on 60 Play set 62 Make a case against? 63 2000 Richard  
cavities  54 Wedding ring?  Gere title role  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 



JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Friday, April 16, 2010 page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Diaco’s defense 
Defense excited for switchbackto3-4system 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Irish defensive line coach Mike Elston isn’t shy about his goals for the new football sea­son. 
“When Coach [Brian] Kelly asked me to coach the defensive line, I was asked the question, ‘What are your expectations?’ I expect to be the best defensive line in the country,” Elston said Wednesday after the team’s ninth spring practice. “Our guys are working towards that. They’re going to be tough to block.” 
After spending 2009 in the 4­3 defensive scheme under for­mer defensive coordinator Jon Tenuta, Kelly switched the team back to the 3-4 defense it played in 2007 and 2008. The scheme consists of three defen­sive linemen and four lineback­ers all very close to the line of scrimmage, in what the coaches describe as a “no-crease” 
VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer 

defense. Elston said this would Junior defensive end Kapron Lewis-Moore, right, performs a drill during a practice on March 31. allow the front seven to make Lewis-Moore leads a defensive line expecting to benefit from the switch to the 3-4 defense. more plays on the ball. 
“What you do is you knock a There’s no creases, no vertical, lead to increased opportunities have a lot of chances to do that guy backwards, you stay no horizontal creases between for the defense. this year.” squared up on him. If the ball them.” “I’m excited to get out to the While Johnson and fellow jun-goes to the left, you tackle the Nearly all of the current line-passer and just get some sacks, ior defensive end Kapron Lewis-ball to the left. If it goes to the men and linebackers were make some plays,” Johnson Moore look to benefit from the right, you tackle it to the right,” recruited to play in a 3-4 sys-said. “I think everyone on new system, Elston said not to he said. “The linebackers are tem, and junior defensive end defense is excited to make some on the same level as the d-line. Ethan Johnson said it should plays this year. I think we’ll see DEFENSE/page 21 

MEN’S LACROSSE 
Two worst in Big East to compete 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
The only thing consistent about Notre Dame’s season thus far has been its inconsistency throughout ups and downs, Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. 
“I’m going to go back to what I [said] before, and I think the Georgetown game proved it to be true,” Corrigan said. “We can do everything we’re asking our guys to do — not only can we do, but we have done. What we haven’t done is do it for 60 minutes.” 
The lack of consistency has helped land the Irish (5-5, 0-3 Big East) in the midst of their longest losing streak of the sea­son. It has been nearly a month since the squad felt the thrill of victory in a March 20 overtime victory over Ohio State. Since that time, Notre Dame has dropped three games, all in the conference. 
The Irish will look to break that streak Saturday when Providence (0-9, 0-2) visits South Bend. Both teams will play with an obvious sense of urgency as the bottom two teams in the Big East standings. The Irish have only two regular-season games remaining after Saturday, one of which is against national power­house Syracuse. 
see FRIARS/page 20 


ND SOFTBALL 

Three home runs lead Irish 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish defended their posi­tion at the top of the NCAA in bat­ting average as three home runs, including a sixth-inning home run from junior Brianna Jorgensborg, led the Irish to a shutout of Cleveland State 8-0 at Melissa Cook Stadium Thursday. 
“The game was a little slow at first,” Irish assistant coach Kris Ganeff said. “But Dani Miller came out there and hit a home run that flew out past center field, and then we started stringing hits together.” 
The No. 24 Irish improved their win streak to eight games by defeating a Vikings team that has won 19 of their last 21 games. 
“If you look at [the Vikings’] sta­
see VIKINGS/page 21 

SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer Junior right fielder Brianna Jorgensborg takes a swing during Notre Dame’s doubleheader sweep of South Florida on April 10. 
BASEBALL 
Notre Dame heads east needing Big East wins 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Senior Sports Writer 
If the Irish are going to have a chance to turn around their season, they’re running out of time to do it. 
Notre Dame (12-19, 2-7 Big East) will travel to Seton Hall (13-17, 3-6) for a criti­cal three -game set this weekend in desperate need of a series win. 
After dropping two of three games to Rutgers last weekend, the Irish had another sluggish perform­ance this week against Chicago State (1-23), escap­ing with a 6-4 win. 
“At this point I don’t know what to expect,” Irish coach Dave Schrage said after Wednesday’s contest. “We hit too many fly balls and we got away with the win.” 
Senior center fielder Brayden Ashdown led the team offensively against the Cougars, going 2-for-5 with three RBIs. The Irish hope Ashdown and freshman infielder Frank Desico, who hit .479 last week, keep up their hot hitting against the Pirates. 
While starting to find their rhythm offensively and aver­aging over six runs per game this year, 
Notre Dame has struggled finding consistency in pitch­ing this season. Starters jun-
see PIRATES/page 21 







