the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


ND earns Sporcle top-five ranking 
By LAURA MYERS 
News Writer 
When senior Katie Snyder had to learn all of the coun­tries in Africa for a political science class last semester, she knew where she would turn to study. She was one step ahead of her professor when he suggested several websites to the class, includ­ing social gaming website Sporcle. 
“I had been planning on using it before he mentioned it,” Snyder said. “I always play the map games on Sporcle.” 
In fact, Snyder is using the site again this semester to help learn the countries of the Middle East for a history class. 
Sporcle, which features games in which players fill in blanks in response to cate­gories or trivia questions, is popular among workplaces and on college campuses, Sporcle’s vice president of products Derek Pharr said. 
A recent upswing in usage by college students led the website to make college rank­ings. Notre Dame has held steady at No. 5 each week of the rankings, which are cal­culated from factors including number of visits, number of page views and time spent on the site, Pharr said. The first rankings were released based on data from Nov. 14-20. 


Campus musicians find outlets for talent 


By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
Notre Dame has provided Nick Gunty with special oppor­tunities to display his musical talent, the junior, who plays the guitar, said. 
“Every once in a while some­thing comes around, like the Sudan peace rally last Saturday,” Gunty said. “I got to play for that. That was probably the most special or most ‘Notre Dame’ thing I’ve done.” 

Junior Will Thwaites said the University has also allowed for unique performance opportuni­ties for his musical group, A 
see MUSICIANS/page 5 
In the fourth list of college rankings, released Tuesday and reflecting usage statistics from the past week, Maryland, Michigan, Ohio State and Boston College were ahead of Notre Dame. 
While Snyder used the site to study, many students said it is more of a good distrac­tion. Pharr said the site could be both. 

“We can be an educational, mentally stimulating diver­sion, but on the other side we can be the destination to spend a little time and get away from things,” he said. 
see SPORCLE/page 4 


By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 

Coordinators of this year’s Notre Dame Forum event were pleased with the first semester’s events and were already preparing the series of Forum events that will take place in the Spring semester, said Ed Conlon, associate dean in Mendoza College of Business and chairman of the Working Committee for the Notre Dame Forum. 
This year’s Forum topic, “The Marketplace and the Common Good,” addressed the issue from many different angles at several panel dis­cussions consisting of University professors and alumni as well as a lecture given by New York Times columnist Thomas Friedman at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center in November. 
Conlon said members of the Forum’s Working Committee and Steering Committee thought the Friedman event overall was a success and were happy with the results of the evening. 
“I think that Thomas Friedman’s lecture went very 

Poorman appointed to Portland 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 

Fr. Mark Poorman has been appointed executive vice presi­dent and associate professor of theology at the University of Portland, effective July 2011. 
Poorman, associate professor of theology and former vice president for Student Affairs at Notre Dame, said he is “grateful, honored and excited to accept the invi­tation to serve the University of Portland as executive vice pres­ident.” 
The University of Portland, a Catholic university in Oregon, 

see POORMAN/page 4 



Chairman reflects on Forum 

well,” Conlon said. “I know that a lot of discussion took place after it among the stu­dents.” 
The Forum coordinators recognized a few issues after Friedman’s lecture that they would like to work on for the future, Conlon said. 
“I think there was a fair number of students there and the event sold out in two hours, but we did see a lot of empty seats. In the future, we want to look at the way tick­ets to these events are dis-
see FORUM/page 5 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC to hold Christmas Craft Show page 3  Campus Christmas page 8  Men’s basketball takes on Kentucky page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Wednesday, December 8, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY:  OW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT T E SNOW?
THE OBSERVER 









P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 

Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 

SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 

and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Mike Gotimer Alicia Smith Kelsey Manning Melissa Flanagan Matthew DeFranks 
Graphics Scene 
Blair Chemidlin Jordan Gamble 
Photo Viewpoint 
Coleman Collins Patricia Fernandez 
OFFBEAT 

Doc dressed as Elvis revives marathon runner 
LAS VEGAS — It wasn't blue suede shoes but a pair of sneakers that led a San Francisco doctor dressed as Elvis Presley to a woman who passed out at a Las Vegas restaurant after a marathon. 
Claudio Palma tells the Las Vegas Review-Journal he was dressed as the King after Sunday's Las Vegas Rock 'n' Roll half-marathon when he performed CPR and resuscitated another runner at the Burger Bar at Mandalay Place. 
The 36-year-old was clad in a jumpsuit, sideburns and scarf for the race and may have looked like Presley, but in real life, 
Alexandra Moulton  Kevin Park  Liam Rhatigan  Mary Corelli  Stephen Despins  Tam Nguyen  
sophomore  sophomore  senior  junior  sophomore  sophomore  
Walsh  Duncan  off campus  off campus  Dillon  Duncan  

“I really wish I “Fantastic!” “Snow makes “It’s peaceful.” “Love it!” “I want it to had a sled so I money for some snow the whole could go and not for city.” sledding.” others.” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

he's an anesthesiologist. 

Palma says paramedics then arrived, and the woman gave him a weird look and told him she was OK. 
He says the incident was­n't the only heart-stopping one that day: he also got married at a run-thru chapel during the race. 
Three Oregon deer attack and injure barking dog 
BEND, Ore. – A Bend, Ore., woman says three deer attacked her barking dog and left the pet with head wounds and a punc­tured chest, but she's expected to make a full recovery. 
Tiffany Rounds says she often sees deer in central Oregon but never had them in her backyard before Thursday. Her small dog, Daisy, clearly thought it was inappropriate and went flying out the door, barking. 
Rounds told KTVZ on Monday that the six-point buck and two does started beating the dog with their hooves and then the buck tried to get her with his anglers. 
Oregon Department of Fish and Wildlife biologist Steven George says even if it's a domesticated dog, deer react to a predator that could hurt or even kill them, so they'll be defen­sive. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 

Richard Moore will give the lecture Rare Events in Nonlinear Optics today at 4 
p.m. It will take place in 127 Hayes-Healy Hall. Moore works for the Department of Mathematical Sciences at the New Jersey Institute of Technology. 
The Eighth Annual Christmas at the CoMo Benefit for Holy Cross Missions in Uganda will take place today at 7:30 p.m. in the first floor lounge of the Coleman-Morse Center . It will feature Christmas carols from around the world, reflections by ND International Students, and info about Holy Cross Mission efforts in Uganda. A reception will follow. 
The Peter Claver Catholic Worker will host a Hospitality Lunch on Thursday at 11:45 
a.m. The lunch will take place in Geddes Hall.A $5 donation is asked for the lunch — addi­tional donations are welcome. 
The film “High and Low” will be shown Thursday at 
6:30 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center.A wealthy industrialist is pushed to the limit when his family targeted by ruthless kidnappers. Tickets cost from $3 to $6. 
The performance “A Kodachrome Christmas” will be put on Thursday at 7 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The performance was written and directed by Written and directed by Pat Hazell. Tickets cost from $8 to $30. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 


24 22 HIGH 2631 3626
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

15 15 LOW 2623 19 11 






Wednesday, December 8, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


SMC holds Christmas craft show 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
Offering a wide variety of handmade, unique gifts, the Christmas Craft Show held at Saint Mary’s College invites students as well as members of the community to purchase goods to support local artists, Carrie Call, director of the Office of Civic and Social Engagement (OCSE) at the College said. 
The craft show will be held in Reignbeaux and Stapleton Lounges in Le Mans Hall at the College Friday from noon to 6 p.m. 
According to Call, the craft show will host about 50 local or regional artisans who will be selling their handmade 
selves. This also includes businesses that people have started themselves.” 
Call said the craft show began four years ago and is open to students from Saint Mary’s College, Notre Dame and Holy Cross College. 

Members of the community pus community. have also been invited to “We hold the event here attend. because it’s a great way for 
According to Call, the craft the Saint Mary’s community to 
show serves several pur­poses. 
“It’s impor­tant for sever­al reasons,” she said. “One is that it pro­vides a fun and festive way for us to raise money for the Christmas pro­grams. But it’s also a commu­

“But it’s also a 
goods. “We focus on community-wide event handmade 
that demonstrates our
items,” she 

support of local and
said. “This means that we regional artists.” have people selling items 
Carrie Call 
that they or 

director
family mem­bers have Offce of Civic and Social 
made them-Engagement 
“Students should come because they will fnd unique, beautiful, one-of-a-kind gifts.” 
Carrie Call director Offce of Civic and Social Engagement 
have fun and celebrate together, and it invites the wider commu­nity onto our campus,” she said. “Many people have never been on campus, and this gives them a fun opportu­nity to see what Saint Mary’s is like.” 
nity-wide event that demon­strates our support of local and regional artists.” 
Call said the money raised from the fees artists pay to rent a table space will benefit the families the College has “adopted” for the 12 Days of Ch ristmas Project. 
“This year we are spon­soring 40 plus 
adults and over 70 children with clothing, food, household essentials and gifts,” Call said. 
According to Call, the craft show has been held annually at Saint Mary’s to unite the local community and the cam-

Call said the craft show will offer a variety of gifts. 
“A large variety of items are available. This includes jewel­ry of all kinds, knitted and crocheted items, pottery, paintings, photography, spe­cialty foods, decorative items, wood crafts, handmade toys and more,” she said. 
Call encouraged students to attend the craft show. 
“Students should come because they will find unique, beautiful, affordable, one-of­a-kind gifts,” she said. “It’s also an easy way to support our Christmas programs. Really though, the best reason is the selection and prices. Everyone loves receiving unique gifts — gifts with heart.” 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 




Election committee nomineesapproved 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 

Members of the Council of Representatives (COR) convened this week to approve nominees to the recently revamped Judicial Council Election Committee. 
Judicial Council president Marcelo Perez explained the role of the committee to COR. 
“Their primary focus will be to go over allegations when they arise as well as help facilitate elections, be in charge of the website and approve campaign posters,” he said. 
Perez said during the short window for accepting applica­tions to the new committee, they heard from a high number of interested students. 
“These last two weeks we’ve been interviewing people for the committee,” he said. “We’ve had 45 [apply] for seven spots.” 
The chosen applicants present­ed to the Council were Tom Burns, a junior Finance and Spanish major from Keough; Jimmy Garry, a sophomore finance and political ccience major from Fisher; Katie Hennessey, a sophomore Marketing major from Lewis; Thomas Hickey, a freshman mechanical engineering major from Duncan; Todd Ludwig, a senior science preprofessional major from Keenan; Katie Nolen, an undeclared freshman from Pasqurilla East; and Caitlin Ogren, an undeclared freshman from Pasqurilla West. 
The Council voted to approve all candidates with 13 votes in favor, zero against, and zero abstaining. 
The new committee differs from the dissolved one in that members were selected from the student body as a whole rather than each dorm having a repre­sentative. Perez said that the dorm-based system would con­tinue, but in a smaller capacity. 
“They do exist, except their sole purpose is to run dorm elec­tions,” he said. 
Judicial Council vice president for elections Michael Thomas said he and Perez intentionally chose a diverse group of students coming from different dorms, majors and classes. 
“The challenge for Marcelo and I in selecting this committee was finding the most balanced group we could, since they’ll be making some very important decisions,” he said. “I think we can have full confidence in the Election Committee given that balance.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, December 8, 2010 


Saint Mary’s offers finals study breaks 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
As stress and busy schedules take over as finals approach, students can take an “insanity break,” sponsored by the Center for Spirituality Dec. 10. 
The Center is sponsoring the event in Reinbeaux Lounge in Le Mans Hall from 1:30 to 
3:30 p.m. It will offer hot bev­erages including hot cocoa, cider and snacks. Coloring pages and word puzzles are also available. 
“It was so successful last year, there was no question that we wouldn’t do it again,” Associate Director for the Center Michelle Egan said. 
The event is held twice a year, during the two weeks prior to finals in order to not interfere with the finals them­selves. 
This will be the second “insanity break” offered this semester. 
Last week’s was held on the first floor of Spes Unica in the morning, catching students and faculty on their way to class. 
Stumbling across the table lined with hot cocoa and cof­fee on her way to work in Spes Unica made junior Ashley Marks’ day last week. 
“It was a wonderful surprise to see snacks, drinks and col­oring supplies to ease the ten­sion of the end of semester assignments,” Marks said. “The hot chocolate and donut hole were a scrumptious way to start my morning.” 
The positive feedback from students fuels this event. 


Sporcle 
continued from page 1 
Juniors Shane Owens, Robert Cahill and Jake Hubbard agreed their favorite game category is Sports. 
“[Hubbard] did all the NFL teams in a minute and a half,” Owens said. 
“Yeah, I’m pretty special,” Hubbard said. 
However, students agreed the intellectual nature of the site allows them to feel better about taking a study break. 
“I delude myself into think­ing I’m learning,” sophomore Stephanie Jones said. “But the motivation is purely recre­ational.” 
Snyder said she wouldn’t have used the site to learn if it didn’t have fun quizzes as well. 
“The fun is the only thing that makes you want to do the academic part of it,” she said. “And then I could procrasti­nate on other things by play­ing Sporcle because it’s aca­demic, so I could feel like I was being productive.” 
Pharr said the timing of the release of rankings leading up to most colleges’ study days and finals weeks was not a total coincidence. 
“We hoped we could hit col­lege students at a time when they could use it to study for finals and to get away from finals,” he said. 
Jones, who said she goes on Sporcle at least one day a week, predicted her usage would go up as finals 

“The response to the event is great,” Egan said. “Students are so appreciative and grateful to hear the Christmas carols playing and to grab something to drink and maybe a donut before class. A lot of people remem­ber the event from last year.” 
The location and time was changed for the second “insanity break” to give the opportunity to students who may not have been able to attend the first one. 
“We’re trying to offer the break to a different group of students and staff this week,” Egan said. “Le Mans was cho­sen as a central location on campus through which stu­dents travel between classes and it’s one of the largest dorms on campus.” 
Sophomore Paige Edmonds is looking forward to the sec­ond opportunity at a break from insanity after enjoying last week’s. 
“During this hectic time of year, it’s nice to see how Saint Mary’s cares about its stu­dents,” Edmonds said. “It was a good on-the-go thing and I am looking forward to getting apple cider this time.” 
Egan said she is glad to see that this event is well received. 
“Everybody is feeling the stress of this time of year,” Egan said. “I think having that unexpected time away — from real life, tests, classes, grades coming in, papers due — is a breath of kindness that every­one can appreciate.” 
Contact Megan Loney at mloney01@saintmarys.edu 
approach. 

The release of the rankings also coincided with the weekly updates of college football’s Bowl Championship Series (BCS) rankings, which Sporcle references as a joke on the website to explain its mathe­matical formula, saying its formula is “simpler than the BCS” but that they might “change the formula from time to time, just like the BCS.” 
“We wanted to explain what we were doing without too much detail,” Pharr said. “We figured ‘It’s complicated what we’re doing, but there are sys­tems that are more complicat­ed, like the BCS.’” 
Like the BCS, though, Pharr said the rankings play off of the competitive nature of col­leges to attract more students to the website. 
“College football, college basketball has a rich rivalry history,” he said. “We’ve already seen a very positive and spirited response to what we’ve been doing. We’d love to see that grow. 
“Those play out on a big stage, and we’d like Sporcle to be a stage for that as well. We see it all as one big healthy debate.” 
The feeling of competition definitely stirred when stu­dents found out Notre Dame was behind traditional rivals Michigan and Boston College. 
“I’d rather beat them in football,” Hubbard said, “but Sporcle would be next.” 

Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 


Poorman 
continued from page 1 

has been closely affiliated for more than a century with the Congregation of Holy Cross in South Bend, Ind. 
Poorman’s administrative responsibilities will include management oversight of the divisions of University opera­tions, financial affairs, University relations and stu­dent affairs, he said. 
“Specifically, the vice presi­dents who lead all those divi­sions will report to me and I will support them so they can be as effective as possible in their service to the University,” he said. “Of course, as a priest I will be involved in the pas­toral mission of the University.” 
Poorman said the faculty at the University of Portland is centered around students, and the Catholic character of the institution is evident in many dimensions of the school’s aca­demic and community life. 
“The University of Portland is interested in educating the whole person — intellectually, emotionally and spiritually — something to which I’ve devot­ed my priesthood and religious life,” he said. “So it’s a good fit.” 
Poorman served as vice president for Student Affairs from 1999 to 2010. In this position, he was responsible for a $25 million annual budg­et and 300 staff members. His administrative duties involved supervising Notre Dame’s resi­dential life as well as other student services, activities and programs, including Campus Ministry, Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP), the Student Activities Office (SAO), the Counseling Center, Health Services, the Career Center, the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, the Gender Relations Center and Multicultural and International Student Services. 
He stepped down from his position as vice president in November 2009, effective June 30. 
“During his tenure as vice president, Poorman led the Division of Student Affairs through a period of growth and development in numerous areas, including the integra­tion of academics and residen­tial life, the enhancement of programs and activities con­tributing to campus social life, ongoing efforts to welcome and retain a diverse student body and continuous improve­ment of a broad range of stu­dent services,” a press release said. 
Poorman also oversaw the construction of Ryan and Duncan residence halls, the Coleman-Morse Center, Hammes-Mowbray Hall, Legends of Notre Dame and the renovation of St. Liam Hall. 
Prior to his appointment as vice president, Poorman served at Notre Dame as exec­utive assistant to the executive vice president and the presi­dent. 
Poorman graduated with a bachelor’s degree in English from the University of Illinois, and earned his master of divinity degree from Notre Dame. 
He was ordained a priest in 1982, and his first assignment after ordination was to come to Notre Dame to serve as rec­tor of Dillon Hall, associate director of Campus Ministry, and instructor in theology. He then pursued graduate studies at the Graduate Theological Union in Berkeley, California, where he earned a Ph.D. in Christian Ethics. 
After earning his Ph.D., Poorman returned to the Notre Dame theology department to serve full-time on the faculty. 
One of Poorman’s most sig­nificant experiences at Notre Dame, he said, has been serv­ing as priest-in-residence in Keough Hall. He has lived in Keough since 1996, the year the dorm opened. 
“I have always considered the pastoral presence of Holy Cross in the residence halls to be one of the best features of our higher education institu­tions, and surely one of the most rewarding ministries in the Congregation,” he said. 
Poorman said living with stu­dents enhances his under­standings of his other roles. He plans to live in a residence hall at the University of Portland. 
“It has kept me very close to the experiences of students and has afforded me a per­spective that informed my roles as faculty, staff and administration and indeed, my vocation as a priest,” he said. “Leaving Keough will be one of the most difficult separations I’ll have to make in moving to Portland. The community we have there is special, even by Notre Dame’s high standards.” 
Poorman said he looks for­ward to serving the University of Portland, because it is a Holy Cross institution dedicat­ed to teaching and learning, faith and formation, as well as service and leadership. 
“University of Portland embodies the same Holy Cross charisma of ‘educating in the faith’ as our other schools: Notre Dame, Stonehill College, King’s College and St. Edward’s University,” he said.  
Poorman said in all of these places, members of the Congregation serve as faculty, staff, administrators and pas­toral ministers. 
“Our hope is that we are able, through the grace of God, to be agents of formation and transformation for students and others,” he said. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 


Wednesday, December 8, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 


Colleges of Science and Engineeringgaingrants 
Special to The Observer 
Faculty from the University of Notre Dame’s Colleges of Engineering and Science have been awarded more than $1.3 million from the U.S. Army Tank Automotive Research, Development and Engineering Center (TARDEC) in collabora­tion with research being con­ducted by Mississippi State University on the development of novel materials for improved battery technology. 
Li-air batteries offer one of the highest theoretical energy densities of any electrochemical power source and more than twice as much as any other existing battery. The goal of this project is to improve battery performance, reliability and safety through the creation of new materials to be used in the batteries that power military vehicles, such as manned and unmanned ground vehicles, directed energy weapons, and hybrid electric vehicles. These technologies are critical for the development of military hybrid vehicles where higher current capability, greater storage capacity, improved durability and reliability are of utmost importance to the safety of the vehicle and its occupants. 

Participating University facul­ty include Keating-Crawford Professor of Engineering Joan 
F. Brennecke, Edward J. Maginn, and Paul McGinn (chemical and biomolecular engineering); Alan C. Seabaugh and Susan Fullerton (electrical engineering); and Rev. John A. Zahm Professor of Science Prashant Kamat (chemistry and biochemistry). They will be developing improved elec­trolytes and electrode struc­tures for use in lithium ion and lithium-air (Li-air) batteries. 




Forum 
continued from page 1 

tributed to that the students who get the tickets are people who really want to attend,” he said. 
Conlon said he and other Forum coordinators were pleased to see a high level of participation in the sponsored small group discussions the weekend after Friedman’s lec­ture. The purpose of the small groups, which took place in various residence halls, was to offer a venue where students could casually discuss the issues Friedman raised in his talk. 
“The discussion groups in the dorms brought up some very good points in relation to the topic,” Conlon said. “I was very pleased because students 

Musicians 
continued from page 1 

Face For Radio. The group con­sists of Thwaites, juniors Kyle Collins, Michael George and Collin Chudwick and sopho­mores Danny Cruser and John Mandrakas. 
“We opened for White Panda when they were in town, which went really well. It was really fun to get up there before a really big act,” he said. “They had about 500 kids in the audi­ence, not all of them super psy­ched for our music but it was definitely cool to have a crowd that big.” 
Thwaites said he is lucky to have found other music stu­dents who enjoy playing and performing in their free time. 
“The biggest thing here is there is a lot of untapped talent. There’s a ton of kids who were really talented musicians in high school that really don’t have the opportunity to pursue music here because they’re dominated by their education,” he said. “A lot of the musical initiatives on campus are very formal.” 
Gunty, who describes his music style as indie folk rock, said he has worked hard to not only play live on campus, but in local establishments. He also said he is looking to expand where he performs. 
“Fiddler’s Hearth [in South Bend] has an open mic every week. That gives you a lot of frequency,” Gunty said. “Lately I’ve been reaching out to places a little more extended like Indianapolis, Three Oaks in Michigan and Chicago.” 
Thwaites said his musical endeavors are more of a hobby. 
are very busy and it is often hard to get them to come to events. We did a poll of the level of attendance at these small group sessions and we found that we had around 20 or more people at every event.” 
Conlon said he thought the Forum’s first semester events were successful but the Working Committee decided that Friedman’s lecture would be the last Forum event of the fall semester. 
“We decided when we got into Thanksgiving that there would be too much going on,” he said. “But we are working on a number of things for next semester.” 
Conlon said students and faculty could expect four Forum sponsored events spread out over the spring semester, including a lecture given by U.S. Senator Evan 
“It’s definitely not my number one pursuit,” he said. “I’m working hard at school, and this is something I do on the side.” 
Thwaites said he sometimes struggles to strike a balance between academics and music. But he said musical success brings him greater joy. 
“Since I have been doing this, I’ve been trying to find this dynamic between the two because every time I get my school work down, my music suffers and every time I get into a flow musically, my grades turn into C’s,” Thwaites said. “The thing I come back to is every time I finish a good music thing, I’m on cloud nine and every time I do well in school, it doesn’t feel any different than before.” 
Though he considers his music a full-time pursuit, Gunty said his classes have made it difficult to commit to his music. 
“It definitely is a full time thing. Particularly sophomore year, I spent a lot of time — probably half and half — between music and school,” he said. “It’s easy to do that fresh­man and sophomore year when you don’t have a lot of work to do.” 
Gunty said he plans to pursue a career in music. 
“To really figure out if you can make it, you have to live in a place that really lives it,” he said. “I definitely have a plan to move to Chicago or maybe Los Angeles after school to give it a full-time try.” 
Thwaites said he sees his music as more of an outlet for his creativity than any sort of potential vocation, but he said he would give a musical career a try if the opportunity present­ed itself. 
“It’s definitely not my number Bayh on the role government and politics plays in the com­mon good. 
By the time Bayh comes to campus on Feb. 21, he will have already have left his posi­tion in the U.S. Senate. 
Conlon said he was slightly concerned about the level of student attendance now that Friedman’s talk, considered the “signature” event of the Forum, has passed. But was “confident” the planned events will be appealing to students. 
“I think having Senator Bayh come here to talk is a big deal,” Conlon said. “Especially for the reason he left office. He didn’t feel like the officials in the Senate and House were looking out for the will of the people. I think he will draw a lot of students.” 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 

one goal in doing it,” he said. “I do it just for the fun of it. I do it because it’s a nice way to express myself creatively.” 
Thwaites said he focused mainly on rap freshman and sophomore year. His YouTube video, “Daisy’s Lullaby (The Great Gatsby Rap)” has over 97,000 views. Thwaites said the success of his song has spilled over into classrooms across the country. 
“I’ve had a lot of different English teachers get in touch with me. One in particular who works at a Title One school where a lot of her kids haven’t read books before,” he said. “She reached out to me to help her plan to get these juniors in high school to finish their first book, being ‘The Great Gatsby.’” 
Gunty, who already has an album available on iTunes, said he doesn’t plan on halting his musical pursuits as he studies abroad in the spring in Toledo, Spain. 
“By the end of next semester, I want to have another short one recorded, like a five song EP,” he said. 
Thwaites said despite a busy fall semester, A Face For Radio is looking to release new mate­rial in the near future. 
He said he has always been active in singing in local choirs from a young age, but an assignment for his senior English class where he sang about his classroom experi­ences sparked his interest as a live artist. 
“It was the first time I had gotten on stage in front of a group of people,” he said. “Once I got a taste of it I didn’t want to turn back.” 

Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 6 Wednesday, December 8, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Last Lecture 
“What wisdom would we impart to the world if we knew it was our last chance? If we had to vanish tomor­row, what would we want as our legacy?” I found these questions in Randy Pausch’s “The Last Lecture,” per­haps the first assigned book I have read cover­to-cover in the past six years. 
For those of you who do not know his mes-Megan Finneran sage, I highly recommend it. Sports Pausch, a com-Production puter science Editor professor at Carnegie Mellon, gives his final lecture with only months left to live after a ter­minal diagnosis of pancreatic can­cer. In it he talks about the impor­tance of pursuing childhood dreams, from his of playing in the NFL (which he never quite reached) to being Captain James T. Kirk from Star Trek (which he sort of did). 

Reading it made me think of my childhood dreams, tracing back to my three-year-old fantasy of work­ing at the dry-cleaner down the street and my secret hope that the nice Chinese owners would adopt me. A year later I expanded slightly, when at the age of four I wanted only the most fascinating job ever: to bag groceries at Dominik’s. I went to Disney World when I turned eight and aspired be Cinderella, a dream I now see slipping away quickly with Prince William’s pending wedding to Kate Middleton. 
Perhaps my favorite part of the book was a chapter entitled “Make a Decision: Tigger or Eeyore.” As Pausch reminded me, Tigger is the ultimate upbeat cheerleader, a guy who is always up for a good time. Eeyore, on the other hand, never seems to be able to find happiness. “Each of us must decide: Am I a fun-loving Tigger or am I a sad-sack Eeyore? Pick a camp,” wrote Pausch. With winter definitely here and finals looming, Eeyore is an easy persona to adopt. Exams make “The Most Wonderful Time of the Year” seem as mystical as Santa’s reindeer, but that is no reason to give up on smiling. Even with the knowledge that he had only months left to live, Pausch still lived every day striving to be a Tigger. 
While embodying Tigger does not mean forget about reality, it certain­ly should act as encouragement to pursue happiness. Do not burn your books, go sky-diving, blow all your money and move to Australia as if you will die tomorrow, but do not shut yourself up in a cubicle on the eighth floor of the library for more than six hours at a time (I am cur­rently on hour number four). “Time is all you have,” Pausch wrote. “And you may find one day that you have less than you think.” 
It should not take any of us a ter­minal illness to appreciate life and all it offers. Every night my room­mate and I identify the highlight of our day, which helps to find the sil­ver lining in even the most dreadful days. I challenge you to do the same, and even better, try to be the highlight of someone else’s. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfinnera@nd.edu 

The genius of Wikipedia 
The Internet can often be disorienting and confusing — Google searches rou­tinely yield meaningless results, and proper information can often be nearly impossible to find. We have all felt the resulting frustra­tion. This was Edward A. especially the Larkin case before the 
Scientific 
advent of 
Notation 

Wikipedia — now the ultimate online encyclope­dia and one of the ten most trafficked websites in the world. In its infancy, Wikipedia was often maligned as suspi­cious and untrustworthy. However, it is increasingly hard to deny its supremacy as a knowledge source. 
Wikipedia is ubiquitous, used for both general and detailed information on any subject. In just a few minutes, one can prepare for a chemistry lab, find the populations of thousands of cities and towns across the world, learn the basics of the philosophy of Ayn Rand, and get some important details on the early life of Lady Gaga or Bill Gates. Why has Wikipedia risen to such hegemony as an information source in the modern world? The answer is that it has succeeded where most of the rest of the Internet has failed. Wikipedia has organized knowledge in an easy, user-friendly way, rather than dispersing it in a chaotic mess. 
We are in the midst of an explosion of information. The Economist presented a special report last year on this very topic, which quoted both a Johns Hopkins astrophysicist worrying about the increasing inaccessibility of information given the explosion of data, and a com­puter scientist from Berkeley claiming that we are in the middle of “the indus­trial revolution of data.” Indeed, a major worry in this new information age is how to handle the vast amounts of data that are accessible. Are we doomed, or is it possible to organize and exploit this new glut of information? Wikipedia has offered a resounding yes to this question. It has utilized the interconnectedness of the Internet and the intelligence of a vast number of specialized people to become the ultimate knowledge source. Its prin­ciples offer a look at how we can use the data explosion for the good of society 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
rather than getting hopelessly lost. 
Wikipedia’s creative use of both top-down structure and grassroots creativity make it a fascinating study in effective­ness. Its organization of the increasingly vast amount of data in the world is remarkable. As a contrast, let us consid­er “Facebook Questions.” If you’ve casu­ally taken a look at the responses to any such questions (which range from “Will Miami win the NBA title?” to “Will pho­ton entanglement drastically change the world in the next 10 years?”), you’ll see that most answers are usually about seven paragraphs (six meaningless) writ­ten by a grad student at Cal Tech or Stanford, and a couple are one-liners trying to be funny. At this very moment, I’m reading the responses to the question “Is global warming a real threat to humanity?” Students from Oxford, University of Michigan, UC Irvine and Berkeley all weighed in extensively, most in multiple paragraphs. How is one to possibly extract any reliable information (much less efficiently) from such a setup? 
Wikipedia is the exact opposite –— it has a basic structure that avoids the “death by lists” of either Google or Facebook Questions. It is neatly divided into sections, and most importantly, peo­ple can edit the work of others. So instead of thousands of people adding another bullet point or long answer, experts can selectively edit the work of others, maintaining brevity. Others can further refine the work. Falsehoods are quickly deleted. This way, compactness is maintained and accuracy is increasingly likely. A reader does not read the endless essays written on Facebook Questions or have to navigate through a mostly mean­ingless Google search result page. You go to the appropriate Wikipedia section and get an answer. 
Another aspect of Wikipedia that sepa­rates it from all other information sources is its interconnectedness. One can move through Wikipedia in an almost stream of consciousness manner. Something is unclear? Click on its link, which brings you to another Wikipedia page, which you can quickly refer to and go back. Want to verify accuracy? Click on the citation, which brings you to the source listed at the bottom of the page. Imagine trying to do this in Google. Each time you don’t understand something or need verification, go back to the search home page, search your phrase, try to find the best page to get the answer, and then hit the back button about five times. Wikipedia uses structure, brevity and interconnectedness to succeed where many others have failed in managing the information revolution. 
The explosion of data that now con­fronts us could be incredibly beneficial to society if it is properly controlled and uti­lized. Giant masses of information can be of enormous help in science and medi­cine — tracking the outcomes of many patients over time can lead to more effective medical practice. Sequencing the genomes of thousands of cancer patients can hopefully show us with more accuracy the tiny little genetic changes that are driving the disease. Not only science and medicine stand to gain 
— data can shed light on human behav­iors, find new connections between things that no one has ever seen and help businesses cater more effectively to their customers. The potential is enor­mous — if it can somehow be managed. 
With this incredible increase in data comes a newfound necessity to keep it in check. Otherwise, we can get lost in the trees very quickly. As public policymak­ers and businesses grapple with ways to better manage data, they should keep the principles of Wikipedia in mind. It is a beautiful portrayal of the power of the collective brainpower of many people when unleashed in setting that has defined boundaries. Simply create the basic borders, and then get out as fast as possible. It’s a perfect fusion of top-down and bottom-up, central planning and lassiez faire. If only all segments of socie­ty could compromise so well. 
When you inevitably go to Wikipedia this week for whatever purpose, you’ll see a banner at the top asking for a donation. I would suggest strongly con­sidering. It’s the least we can do to rec­ompense a website that could be the most important of our time. 
Edward A. Larkin is a senior with a double major in Biological Sciences and Classical Civilization. He can be reached at elarkin1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Three may keep a secret, if two ofthem are dead.” 
Benjamin Franklin Founding Fathers of the United States 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“The world is full of willing people,some willing to work, the restwilling to let them.” 
Robert Frost American poet 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Wednesday, December 8, 2010 page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A letter to the 
champs 
Dear Ladies, 

I started off the year by writing you a letter, so I figured I should end it with one. First of all, I want to say thank you. Thank you for memories, the championship and an experience that I will remember for the rest of my life. Most of all, thank you for being the amazing group of young ladies you are. You are finally getting the recog­nition and respect you deserve after being over­looked by so many. The NCAA selection commit­tee did it when deemed you worthy of only a No. 4 seed. The media focused on an undefeated Stanford team and the two Cinderella stories of Boston College and Ohio State at the College Cup. Our own school cared more about [insert football player’s name] blowing his nose or [insert bas­ketball player’s name] raising his hand in class while you kept working hard perfecting your game outside of the spotlight. Now you have the respect you’ve earned — the same respect you forced North Carolina, Ohio State, and Stanford into giving you. I saw the ups, downs, good, bad, ugly, blood, sweat, tears and any other cliché you can think of and witnessed you handle everything with class, responding only with your play on the field. Whether you know it or not, you’ve impact­ed the lives of those around you. Just think back to those little girls lining up for autographs after home games and one in particular who dragged her family to North Carolina during a snow storm just to be with you when you won it all. This championship also impacts the list of great play­ers who came before you and never took the tro­phy home. Then there is the impact you’ve had on me. At the beginning of the season I asked you to let me be a part of your team, but you made me a part of your family. For that, I will be forever grateful. You truly exemplify all that Notre Dame stands for and the university is proud to call you ours. Seniors, you went out on top. Everyone else, this is only the beginning. Congratulations on your title. 
Your manager and biggest fan, 
“Paco” 

Aaron Gutierrez 
senior 
off-campus 
Dec. 7 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


UWIRE 



‘Tis the season for excess 
It starts with Thanksgiving. Eating until you are com­fortably full is not an option on Thanksgiving — if you don’t eat yourself into a coma, you’re a spoil-sport. 
Then, for college students, comes the last week of school and finals. Our workload gives us the excuse to down buckets of coffee and energy drinks, and since we stay up all Kate Clabby night studying, we have to eat fast food — it’s all that’s open at 
Daily Texan 
3 a.m.! 

And when that last test is finally over and it’s time to relax, the holiday parties begin. Every night is a celebration, so we go out and eat cake, cookies, brownies and chocolate mints, and wash them down with champagne. It’s every­where, it’s delicious and it’s a celebration, so we always eat at least one too many treats to feel good going to bed. 
On New Year’s Eve, this season of excess goes out with a bang. Grown-ups have permission to drink like college students, so most of us take things a few steps further. It’s a holiday, and it’s fun. 
And the next morning, it’s over. We feel hungover, sick to our stomachs and guilty. So, we make resolutions. The nation goes on a collective diet. We give up sugar, fat and carbs and promise to stay under 1,500 calories a day. We go to the gym. And oh yeah, we promise to quit smoking and stop procrastinating on our homework. This year will be different. 
It’s a nationally sanctioned binge-and-purge ritual, and it’s a symptom of what food journalist Michael Pollan calls “our national eating disorder.” I love brownies and I don’t have a problem with the idea of “holiday food.” But I do have a problem with a way of eating that turns food into the enemy and inspires self-loathing. What if we could eat a doughnut on Hanukkah or a gingerbread cookie on Christmas, stop before we made ourselves sick and then, come Jan. 1, continue to eat food we enjoy, including the occasional dessert? Wouldn’t that be a more sane way to celebrate? 
Don’t worry. This is not an article on how to survive the holiday season without gaining weight. You know the ones; they’re usually in those magazines with slim, bikini-clad women or the airbrushed, shirtless men on the cover. They tell you to “set ground rules” or “use a small plate” or simply “limit sweets.” Unfortunately, this advice often feeds into the unhealthy relationship that most of us have with food. We feel guiltier, we restrict ourselves more when we’re not celebrating, and then the temptation to go too far is that much stronger. 
So I’m only going to offer one piece of advice: Enjoy your food. Think about how good it’s going to taste before you put it into your mouth. Then chew, taste and savor every bite. Whether it’s braised broccoli or peppermint fudge, if it’s going into your body, it better satisfy your taste buds first. 
If you’re eating something and you can’t enjoy it because it’s “diet food” and it tastes like cardboard then stop. If it’s winter break, especially if you’re at your parents’ house, there’s no reason why you can’t fix yourself something to eat that’s tasty and healthy. And if you have to add a little butter or a little honey to make it truly delicious, go for it! If everyday meals satisfy you, truly decadent treats won’t seem like such a novelty. You might have an easier time sticking with just one. 
If you’re eating something and you can’t enjoy it because you feel too guilty about eating it, you have two choices: either stop eating, or make the decision to go ahead and eat without guilt. In my experience, the worst over-eating comes from mindless eating. I eat too many cookies not because they’re especially good cookies, but because I’m standing next to the cookie platter. I might have enjoyed the first cookie but definitely not the fourth. 
As it turns out, demanding enjoyment out of your food is not such a novel idea. In fact, it’s a practice embraced by most of the world. Take the French: Yes, they eat cheese and croissants and chocolate and cream puffs. But they always eat together. They eat almost painfully slowly. They don’t go back for seconds. And they enjoy every last bite. 
The French have a culture that supports a healthy way of thinking about food. We don’t. Simply pledging to enjoy your food isn’t going to change that, but it’s a start, and it might influence others positively, too. And if, come Jan. 1, you make your resolutions with a little bit less guilt, I think that’s a good thing. 
This column first appeared in the Dec. 7 edition of the Daily Texan, the publication serving the University of Texas. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The US must bring civics into the classroom 
Most of us weren’t even in high school when the Twin Towers fell. Since then, our country has faced many crises. Hurricane Katrina, corporate corruption, the great reces­sion and the BP oil spill are just a few of the disasters we’ve lived through as a generation. With so much political drama every year, the life of a 
U.S. citizen should be incredibly Patrick Glendening exciting, but for some reason, even as we’re becoming adults, 
The Daily Aztec 
our conversations are the same as they were in the eighth grade. Talking about the latest Jersey Shore episode or what Kanye West did at the Video Music Awards take the place of real discussion about national events that actually matter. 
Saying we are too busy, jaded or apathetic are all pathet­ic excuses for not having a basic knowledge of what’s going on in the world today. But perhaps our lack of world knowledge isn’t completely our own fault — mainstream media is fluffed up and sugarcoated to keep viewers’ atten­tion, and our education system doesn’t actively engage the majority of us in deep political conversations. The slightest addition to our long-term educational careers could help cure the epidemic of ignorance we face today. 
Requiring civics classes that teach the rights and duties of citizens would help motivate students to understand and care about the political environment that they are a part of. We should require classes, starting in grade school, that keep people involved in their country from a young age. In addition, colleges should require a similar course geared toward current events every semester or quarter. Even a one-unit class that meets once a week would help keep our students informed about the true-life drama that is our American democracy. 
Every generation is faced with its own political issues. Yet, when we become isolated from the histories experi­enced by the generations before us, we often fail to recog­nize the links between the news today and the events of the past. Although we are now mentally trapped in a history time bubble, we are still expected to have convicted stances on current events while only having a narrow idea of what is really going on. 
For instance, how many people do you think take the time to investigate U.S. and British involvement in the Middle East during the 1950s? I’m not here to give you a history lesson, but some serious political and military inter­vention went down just to ensure that Americans could fill up their Cadillac and Ford gas tanks with a low price tag. Our existing involvement in the Middle East isn’t some iso­lated incident and neither is any other current event. They all have a rich backstory that give hints as to why and how things came to be how they are today. A civics program would help keep students informed not only about the his­tory that created individual political events, but also about the key figures and moments that have shaped our current political climate. 
You don’t need to be a political genius to keep yourself informed and have strong views about the world. If we don’t take the time to inform ourselves, we will idly sit by as our civil liberties and dollars turn to dust. Whichever side of the political debate you’re on, civic education is key to a strong democracy in the U.S. Nobody enjoys the com­pany of a blind, ignorant conservative more than a fellow blind, ignorant conservative, and no one appreciates the rants of an uneducated, idealistic liberal more than anoth­er uneducated, idealistic liberal. If people continue to exist in their political bubbles, they will neither change anything nor live as anything more than a vat-full of ignorant politi­cal opinion. A comprehensive civics education would lift the burden of remaining informed off of the student and would keep our citizens engaged in our society’s dramatic devel­opment from a young age. 
This column first appeared in the Dec. 7 edition of The Daily Aztec, the publication serving the San Diego State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 



Scene
page 8 Wednesday, December 8, 2010 

The Observer 


Scene
Wednesday, December 8, 2010 page 9 

By COURTNEY COX 
Scene Writer 

Name: Margaret Archibald 
Spotted: En route to Alumni Hall’s $5 formal 

Margaret is prepared for the holiday party scene in a festive plaid dress made of wrapping paper. It's the perfect creative outfit for anyone in search of interesting party attire — just be sure to beware of tearing! 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 

page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, December 8, 2010 
CLUB SPORTS 



Men’s volleyball wins Irish Invitational 
Special to The Observer 
The Irish hosted a tourna­ment this weekend at Rockne Memorial Gymnasium. The field consisted of seven teams from four universities, with two teams from Grand Valley State, one each from Purdue and Ball State, and three teams from Notre Dame, who split its main squad into two teams and fielded an alumni squad for the third. The teams were split into two pools, the first of which had Grand Valley State’s A squad, Notre Dame Alumni, Notre Dame Green and Purdue while the second pool had Grand Valley State’s B squad, Notre Dame Navy and Ball State. 
Notre Dame’s Green squad played well and finished sec­ond in their pool by beating the Irish Alumi 2-0 (25-13, 25-13) and Purdue 2-0 (25­13, 25-20). They dropped two matches to Grand Valley State A 2-0 (19-25, 20-25). In the tournament bracket, the Green Irish defeated Grand Valley State B 2-0 (25-18, 25­
17) before falling in two sets to the Navy Irish 2-0 (25-17, 25-23), resulting in a third place finish. The team faced a variety of problems as a number of players were play­ing outside of their comfort zone. Junior Tom Johnson, usually a right side hitter, played middle blocker; fresh­man Liam Gallagher, a defen­sive specialist, played outside hitter; sophomore Patrick Condon, normally an outside hitter, played right side; and senior president Mark Iandolo, normally a defensive specialist, played outside hit­ter for the Green squad this weekend. 

“Considering the severe adversity facing the Green team, with all of the guys playing out of their normal positions, we should be truly pleased with our third place finish,” Condon said. “I’m not going to say I carried the team, but my back really hurts.” 
Notre Dame’s Navy squad, however, dominated the tour­nament, facing their only sig­nificant challenge in the championship match. In pool B, every match played three games, regardless of the out­come of the first two because there was one fewer team in pool B than pool A. After run­ning the table in the early going by beating Grand Valley State B 3-0 (25-7, 25­14, 25-16), and Ball State 3-0 (25-8, 25-14, 25-18) in pool play, the Irish began the tournament bracket play. The Navy Irish beat Purdue 2-0 (25-17, 25-10), Notre Dame Green 2-0 (25-17, 25-23) and Grand Valley State A 2-1 (25­23, 23-25, 15-13) to reach the championship match. 
In the finale, the Irish fought back in games one and three after being down by as many as six points in game one and facing a 9-12 deficit in the third game. The Notre Dame Navy squad never gave up, however, and took first place at a tournament for the first time in over four years. 
This tournament was truly critical for the Irish, as this was the last time they’ll play until spring semester begins. The spring has potential to be the best in team Irish his­tory with the return of junior setter Josh Rehberg from his study abroad program in Australia and the return of freshman middle Scott Canna from a knee injury. The Irish have a deep squad this year, which was on display this weekend when a split squad took first and third places in the Irish Invitational. 
Women’s Ice Hockey 

Notre Dame played two games this past weekend, one in Chicago and one in Milwaukee. The team posted a big 10-1 win against the Tigers, a club program, in Chicago on Saturday. The Irish scored seven goals in the first period, one in the second and two in the third. Junior Margot DeBot ripped the nets four times, while freshman Maddie Schneeman registered a hat trick. Sophomores Veronica Ryan and Caitlin Ryan, and senior captain Karen Riedl scored the other goals. 
Notre Dame lost 4-1 at the Olympic Training Center in Wisconsin on Sunday. 
Figure Skating 

Notre Dame started their season strong with a silver medal performance at the Dr. Porter Synchro Classic in Ann Arbor, Michigan on Dec. 5. 
Skating to a medley of songs from the Broadway musical “Hair,” Notre Dame’s speed, presentation and inno­vative choreography set them apart from the nine -team field made up of college teams from around the coun­try. The highlight of Notre Dame’s routine was a varia­tion in their straight-line pin­wheel where half the team ducked and continued to rotate, while the other half passed over the heads of their teammates. The many family members and friends who made the trip to Ann Arbor to cheer on the Irish went wild in the stands as the team nailed the difficult ele­ment. 
The Irish finished a close second behind perennial syn­chronized skating power ­house Miami (OH) and received a first-place mark from one of the judges. As the season continues into 2011, the team hopes to build off this strong start and chal­lenge the field for gold at the Midwestern Sectional Synchronized Skating Championships in Rochester, Minn. in early February. 
MLB 


MLB discusses expanded playoffs, video replay at meetings 
committee. “But there seems to  to be at the news conference but  
Associated Press  be balance there that hopefully  left the winter meetings because  
LAKE BUENA VISTA, Fla.  — would be explored.”  of a family illness. Braves presi- 
Commissioner Bud Selig’s special  Former Dodgers and Yankees  dent John Schuerholz, like Torre  
committee for on-field matters  manager Joe Torre, another  a member of Selig’s committee,  
discussed both expanded playoffs  member of the committee, wants  took Cox’s chair,  
and increased use of video review  to make certain division winners  A new wild-card round likely  
by umpires without making any  get rewarded for first-place fin- would be best-of-three or single- 
recommendations.  ishes.  game elimination.  
The committee of managers  “I felt that winning a division  “We’ll make what we think is  
and executives met Tuesday on  didn’t have as much clout as it  the really best decision for base- 
the second day of the winter  probably should have,” Torre said  ball,” Schuerholz said. “There’s a  
meetings. The group will meet  at a news conference with Lou  lot of issues to contemplate.”  
again in conjunction with owners’  Piniella and Cito Gaston, two  When they met last month,  
meetings scheduled for Jan. 12­ other longtime managers who  more general managers appeared  
13 in Paradise Valley, Ariz.  retired along with him in 2010.  to favor best-of-three over a win- 
There appears to be strong sen­ “Three games in one place, two  ner-take-all round.  
timent for adding two wild-card  games in another, I don’t think  “In baseball there has to be a  
teams to create a 10-club postsea­ that’s enough of a detriment,”  balance of having 162 games  
son, most likely for 2012. But the  Torre said, referring to the cur- mean more than just seeding, like AP  
details have to be worked out,  rent best-of-five division series  it does in some other sports,” Major League Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig has considered  
and the players’ association said  format. “I’d like to make winning  Scioscia said. “I would think a expanding both the playoffs and video replay.  
last week that it preferred that  the division, because it is tough to  longer series obviously favors a  
management bargain over the  do, I’d like to see them have a lit- deeper team. But logistically,  On other topics, Torre repeated  and enjoyed it and certainly  
matter  before formulating  a  tle more of an advantage.”  there has to be some balance to  he will not manage again and said  wouldn’t have the schedule that a  
detailed proposal of how an extra  Piniella backed expanded play- how many games you’re going to  he’s had several offers to resume  manager has. But I’m not sure. I  
tier of playoffs would work.  offs, as did Gaston.  be able to get in.”  his career in broadcasting.  don’t want to commit and be  
“I don’t think anybody’s in favor  “It will cause more interest at  As for replay, it hasn’t been  “At this point in time I’m sort of  sorry I did something. I’m just  
of having a setup where you have  the end of the season,” the former  determined whether to increase  enjoying not having to make deci­ going to give myself as a long a  
16 teams make the playoffs or 14  Blue Jays manager said. “Teams  its use. It began in 2008, limited  sions, and I just put it off until  time as possible.”  
teams make the playoffs,” said  that are not in it could be in it.”  to reviewing whether potential  after the first of the year,” he said.  Torre also has the option of  
Los Angeles Angels manager  Retired Atlanta Braves manag­ home runs crossed fences or were  “It certainly is tempting because it  working for Dodgers general  
Mike Scioscia, a member of the  er Bobby Cox also was scheduled  fair.  was something I did for six years  manager Ned Colletti.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Sydney Fife: You get home safe, Spring Semester lease 2011. For more information, visit ND's Pistol.FOR RENT WANTED PERSONAL website at: http://pregnancysup-Peter Klaven: You got it, Joben. Furnished 2nd floor apartment port@nd.edu. Sydney Fife: I'm sorry, what? STRAT-O-MATIC baseball league UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? ——————————————— Peter Klaven: Er... nothing. 6 Bedroom Minutes drive from campus. looking for managers. If you or someone you care about Sydney Fife: No, what did you say? Don't go it alone. has been sexually assaulted, we Peter Klaven: Nah, I don't know... 2 Bath house Newly renovated kitchen and bath-Call 574-271-0185 can help. You nicknamed me Pistol, and I just room. Notre Dame has many resources in For more information, visit Notre called you... "Joben"... It means Available for 2011-12 school year. place to assist you. Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu. nothing... I don't... I'm drunk... I'm Hardwood floors ——————————————— gonna call a cab. 
Close to campus - student rental If you or someone you love needs ——————————————— 
area. (574) 220-8867 confidential support or assistance, Wanted: Catholic Priests. Needed Peter Klaven: Why does everything The carnival's in town. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 to fill shortage, over 7 million open-I do sound like a leprechaun? Call for details 574-329-3849 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. ings.**Women need not apply. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Wednesday, December 8, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
NFL 



Manning stuck in a rut as Colts struggle 


Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS — Peyton Manning has a simple slump-bust­ing plan. 
Play like he usually does. 

After throwing 11 interceptions in three weeks and having four returned for touchdowns, the four-time league MVP insists he won’t change how he plays. Other than, of course, executing plays better. 
“Aggressive discipline, that’s kind of how I’ve always been taught to play,” he said Tuesday. “What does that mean? That means throw it to the guy if he’s open and don’t throw it if he’s covered. I just haven’t been executing that philosophy well because I’ve been throwing to some guys that have been cov­ered.” 
It sounds like a simple solution. 

But over the past three weeks, Manning has been doing the oppo­site. 
He’s thrown into traffic more often and stared down receivers — uncustomary mistakes for a 13­year NFL veteran, particularly one with the reputation of being, well, Perfect Peyton. 
For the first time in his pro career, he’s had back-to-back four-interception games. He’s thrown a career-high total for any three-week span, and he’s repeatedly shouldered the blame for the Colts’ woes by acknowledging he’s made poor throws and poor decisions. 
And it’s taking a toll on the fran­chise player. 
As Manning was peppered with questions about what’s wrong Tuesday, the tension showed. 
“We’ve lost three games, guys. I don’t know what ‘anything like this’ means,” Manning said when asked if he’d endured any similar slumps in high school or college. “It’s a tough stretch. It’s a three-game los­ing streak. I know you guys proba­bly aren’t used to having to ask these questions, but it’s football and that’s the way it is.” 
Manning isn’t the only one seek­ing solutions, though everyone is backing the franchise quarterback. 
Players such as longtime center Jeff Saturday, one of Manning’s closest friends, and young receiver Pierre Garcon believe everyone can improve their play and that would help Manning. 
Twice this week, coach Jim Caldwell has tried to explain the widespread problems reflected in the interception totals. He blamed route-running, pass protection, the inability to run the football, even the ability of the defense to force turnovers for the Colts’ struggles. 
On Monday night’s radio show, Colts President Bill Polian acknowl­edged the combination may be forcing Manning into trying to do too much. 
“We’re not doing a good job in the running game and we’re speed­ing up the clock in Peyton’s head by about a half a second,” Polian told listeners. “When you do that, you make mistakes.” 
But when you have a player who has been as consistently good as Manning, teammates aren’t sure they can do anything to help. 
“He’s been around a long time and he knows what he’s got to do as the quarterback,” Saturday said. “And I’m not the one to give him advice on that (playing quarter­back).” 
Even Caldwell, Manning’s posi­tion coach until last season, is will­ing to let Manning work things out on his own. 
Manning’s solution: Practice the same way, study the same way and revert to being his old self on the field. 
“As a quarterback, I’ve tried to prepare hard to do my job better. That’s something that I certainly need to do,” he said. “I think every­body feels a sense of urgency, there is no question there is a sense of urgency, feels the challenge, and hopefully we can respond.” 
In past seasons, nobody has been better at responding to adversity than Manning. 
Whether it was the trademark game-winning drives, the uncanny accuracy or the ability to almost carry a team to victory, Manning has always had an answer. 
Now, the Colts need it. With four games left and three against divi­sion foes, the Colts (6-6) can win another AFC South title if they can pull off a sweep. The run starts Thursday night at Tennessee — a team that hasn’t had an intercep­tion in three weeks. 
But the questions are all about Peyton. 
Suddenly, each errant throw is being dissected on highlight shows, fans are wondering whether Manning is hurt and some have even asked whether this is the start of a natural decline for the 34-year­old Manning. 
Caldwell isn’t buying it. 

“He still works as hard as he always works. He is just as diligent (with) every single aspect of his routine and his preparation,” he said. “I have been around him a lit­tle while now and it hasn’t changed. He is still doing the same things he has always done, practic­ing extremely well and I think you will see that he will play well.” 
And Caldwell isn’t about to ask Manning to change anything about his routine. 
“That’s part of his preparation,” he said. “His state of readiness is different than the normal individ­ual. That is part of his DNA and that’s how he works and that’s why he has been a great performer.” 
page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, December 8, 2010 
NFL 



Jets look to rebound from loss 

Associated Press 
FLORHAM PARK, N.J. — The New York Jets went to New England looking to make a statement. 
They did. The wrong one. 
A day after being embar­rassed on national television, the Jets were wondering how everything went so wrong in a 45-3 drubbing on Monday night. 
“It was the game of the year,” a bloodshot-eyed coach Rex Ryan said Tuesday. “The unfor­tunate thing is I feel bad for ourselves, obviously, our fans and, really, the NFL. The NFL deserved a better game than that, but we weren’t up to the task.” 
That was clear early in the Jets’ most lopsided loss since falling to the Miami Dolphins in 1986 by the same score. New York was 10-1 at that point, and that defeat, along with injuries, sparked a five-game losing streak. 
Ryan acknowledged that there’s plenty the Jets (9-3) need to fix before their game Sunday against the Dolphins (6­
6) to avoid a similar fate. He said he never left the facility after getting back from the game early Tuesday morning. 
“We got pummeled, we played terrible, but it’s one game,” Ryan said. “Everything we talked about is still attainable.” 
Everything, meaning, a Super Bowl trophy — something Ryan guaranteed during training camp. 
Ryan even evoked the 1985 Chicago Bears, a team whose defensive coordinator was his father, Buddy. That team lost its only game that season to Miami 38-24 on a Monday night in Week 13, a result Ryan said he thought “was probably just as humiliating, bad, all that kind of stuff on a national stage, maybe even as big or even bigger than this.” 
Ryan added that he hopes “history repeats itself” as the Bears went on to win the Super Bowl that season. And, despite his own team’s lousy loss, Ryan is confident his guys can turn things around. 
“We have a quarter of our season left,” he said, “so we’re far from pressing the panic but­ton.” 
The same can’t be said of some distraught fans who flood­ed sports radio shows with calls wondering if the Jets can possi­bly bounce back from this kind of loss. The performance was also heavily criticized by the media, with everyone from Ryan to Mark Sanchez to the vaunted defense getting clob­bered. 

“This humble pie tastes like a car tire and it goes down like peanut butter,” defensive tackle Sione Pouha said after the game. “That’s how it feels. Sunday can’t come soon enough.” 
There will be lots to do in the days leading up to that, though. The players will gather as a team Wednesday morning, and Ryan said he’ll address them at that point. 
“I’ll have a specific message,” he said, “that I’ll share with them first.” 
You can be sure there won’t be many smiles in that room, nor should there be after what went down at Gillette Stadium. 
“We really have to do some soul searching and see what we’re really about, what type of team we want to be,” wide receiver Brad Smith said. “I think we will be all right.” 
It couldn’t get much worse than it did Monday, when there were serious breakdowns on offense, defense and special teams that Bill Belichick’s team capitalized on each time. 
“We couldn’t have played much worse in all phases of the game,” tight end Dustin Keller said. 
Sanchez was off target all night, throwing three intercep­tions against a pass defense that ranked last in the league coming in. Offensive coordina­tor Brian Schottenheimer and the Jets’ offense also never really took advantage of the Patriots’ young secondary. 
“This was a good old-fash­ioned butt-kicking,” Sanchez said. “There’s no two ways around it. I need to play better, especially down the stretch.” 
With the Jets trailing 24-3, Sanchez’s interception at the Patriots 2 early in the third quarter ended any comeback chance New York had. The rout was on after that. 
On special teams, Nick Folk missed another field goal, falling short on a 53-yard attempt, and punter Steve Weatherford shanked a 12-yard punt that led to a score. 
The Jets’ defense, which Ryan 

Belles 
continued from page 16 

ble figures. Junior guard Patsy Mahoney scored 15 points and was a perfect 6-6 from the line, includ­ing 4-4 in the final fifteen seconds. Junior forward Jessica Centa scored 10 points and grabbed eight rebounds while freshman guard Shanlynn Bias was a key contributor with 14 points. 
The Belles standout in this game, however, was junior forward Kelley Murphy, who notched 24 points and 13 rebounds in a dominating performance. 
The Belles defense also stood out. They limited Olivet ’s leading scorer, junior guard Debbie Nikodemski, to just six points on 2-5 shooting from the field. Junior for­ward Alysia Cole was a bright spot in the Comets defeat with team highs with 18 points and seven rebounds. 
The Belles will take the court on Saturday at 3 
p.m. at home against MIAA foe Alma College. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 


has said will be ranked No. 1 at the end of the season, was picked apart by Tom Brady drive after drive. The Patriots scored on each of their first four possessions, taking a 21-point lead into halftime. It only got worse in the second half as the Jets appeared unable to stop or tackle anyone, including former teammate Danny Woodhead. 
Other than Darrelle Revis, the secondary — already short­handed with the loss of Jim Leonhard — was exposed by Brady as Eric Smith struggled as Leonhard’s replacement and Antonio Cromartie had proba­bly his worst game with the team. 

Wednesday, December 8, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
puts him second on the team in points behind Tynan. 

McGraw
Guentzel 

“I like to make plays, I like to set people up,” Guentzel 
continued from page 16 
continued from page 16 

said. “Playing the last three years, [Ben Ryan and I] 
Natalie Novosel. Diggins, 
year’s team.” 

played a lot on the ice togeth-
Notre Dame’s starting point 
Guentzel’s big-picture lead­er. We kind of know where 

guard, was named to the Big 
ership has been essential on each other are and I mean 

East Weekly Honor Roll this 
this year’s Irish team, as a that makes the game easier, if 

week for her performances at 
cast of twelve freshmen has you know where each other 

No. 2/3 Baylor last Wednesday 
been molded into a cohesive are going to be. We can make 

and against Purdue on 
unit that sits second in the more plays.” 

Sunday. At the other guard 
CCHA standings with 26 Guentzel and the rest of the 

position, Novosel has stepped 
points in 12 league games. 

Irish will be in action against 
up her play this season, often 
“I think with only four sen-Northern Michigan for a 

leading the team in scoring as 
iors, we’ve got to be tight-knit weekend series at the Joyce 

she has been averaging 16.3 
with so many young fresh-Center this Friday and 

per game. Her contributions 
men. We’ve got to be role Saturday. While the Wildcats 

haven’t gone unnoticed by the 
models,” Guentzel said. 

may not carry the same repu­coaching staff. 
“We’ve got no problems with tation as recent opponents 

“She’s really talented and …
each other, we all live togeth-Miami and North Dakota, the 

she’s been playing really well 
er. We’ve been through some senior said that Northern 

all year,” McGraw said about 
ups — the National Michigan could not be under-

Novosel. “She’s just taking 
Championship game — and estimated. 

what the defense gives her, 
some lows like last year. 
“It’s not the same name, 

she’s not forcing things. Her 
We’ve been through it all, but obviously, they’re right 

and Skylar are playing really 
and with that experience I behind us in the standings,” 

well together, she’s just got 
think it helps us lead this Guentzel said. “They just 

great instincts, and she can 
team.” 

crept into the top 20 in the 
really score. We like her to 
The maturation of those nation, so, with finals coming shoot the ball.” 

freshmen — center T.J. Tynan up and a lot of young fresh-Both guards’ abilities will be “They’ve got great team lenges for our defense.” 

and wings Anders Lee and men around who haven’t necessary for the Irish tonight speed, really good guard play. McGraw and the Irish take Mike Voran, to name a few — been here during finals time, when they take on the Friars. They always seem to have on the Friars tonight at 7 p.m. 

have enabled Guentzel to see it’s just kind of keeping them Notre Dame leads the series really good guards,” McGraw at Alumni Hall in Providence, considerable ice time with focused on the task at hand. 

18 -0, but Providence can said. “They can push the R.I. in the hopes to open their fellow seniors Ben Ryan and Just trying to get through this challenge the Irish’s team tempo, they shoot the three Big East season with a win. 
Calle Ridderwall. The line has last week and then when it speed and also have the abili-much than better than we do, turned in huge numbers, and comes to Saturday, making ty to hit some of their weak and they drive the ball really Contact Meaghan Veselik at for Guentzel the early-season sure that we’re into the game spots. well, so we’ll have some chal-mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 

statistics are right in line and then going from there.” 

with his reputation as a smart and creative playmak­er, with his team-leading 15 Contact Chris Allen at assists and three goals, which callen10@nd.edu 
nent so far this season, and the all-tournament team. 
currently rank fifth in the “I just didn ’t want him NCAA in rebound margin at thinking, and I didn’t want to continued from page 16 plus-12.4. talk publically about him “I think that’s something doing more, because I didn’t series again, and our fans we’ve been really pleased want him to get outside of can relate to going and play-with,” Brey said. “It’s been a our offense,” Brey said. “I ing Kentucky every year. It’s nucleus of guys that learned think he’s learned to keep it not a good game annually for how to defend and rebound very simple in the context of us, but it’s a good thing to last year, and pushed to get things, and he’s done a really rotate in and out of. an NCAA tournament bid, good job of rebounding and 
Obviously the series is a little and they’ve continued that blocking shots.” 
one-sided, but we won the this year. Our size helps us, Senior Scott Martin has 
last one, and it ’s a great but it’s kind of been a team also started to contribute for 
challenge facing a great pro-mentality rebounding.” the Irish. Martin, who missed 
gram.” A big part of their improved the 2008-09 campaign as a 
Notre Dame has started the rebounding has been senior transfer before missing last season 8-0 for the first time Carleton Scott, who leads the year with a knee injury, in Brey’s tenure as coach, Irish with 7.8 boards per struggled to start the season, due in large part to their game. Scott recorded two but recorded a season-high improvement on the boards double-doubles in the three-seven rebounds against this season. The Irish have game Old Spice Classic for Wisconsin and a season-high out-rebounded every oppo-the Irish, and was named to 15 points in Notre Dame’s 

last game against Indiana State. 
“I think it’s probably just reps and playing time,” Brey said. “When you haven ’t played in two years, I think it’s a confidence thing. Just getting to play and getting in game situations was key, and I want to just keep him confi­dent, because I think he’s feeling good about his role on the team.” 
Even though Big East sea­son does not start for three weeks, Brey thinks that this game will be a good test for the Irish, and a good trial run for the type of teams they will face once conference play rolls around. 
“I told the guys ‘Here comes a Big East week,’” Brey said. “It’s a Big East kind of preparation, with speed coming into our lane, and we talk about trying to survive and thrive in the Big East. There are a lot of guys that can get to the lane off the dribble, and that’s cer­tainly John [Calipari]’s phi­losophy. So, for these veteran guys in our program, it’s very similar. It ’s going to be a great test for us in a road atmosphere.” 
Notre Dame tips off against Kentucky at 9:30 p.m. tonight before returning home to face Gonzaga on Saturday. 

Brey 
Contact Eric Prister at 

eprister@nd.edu 



page 14 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, December 8, 2010 Wednesday, December 8, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 15 

CROSSWORD 
67Chips away at68Seinfeld's eccentric relative 69Many a Little 
League rooter70“Go team!” 71Sunbathers 
catch them 
Down 
1 Coal holder 2 Indivisible 3 Demolitionist's 
aid 4 Biker's invitation to a friend 5 Former BigApple mayor LaGuardia 6 Global currency 
org.7 Lab jobs 8 Atomic centers 9 Brian of ambient 
music 10Scenic view 11 Like most Turks 12Body shop jobs 13Graph lines151545-63 council 
site 21Moray, e.g.23Drum 
accompanying a fife 24École attendee 25Emotionallydamage26Blue-green hue27Plexiglas piece31Muscle spasm33AOL alternative 35W. C. Fields persona36Bar closing time,perhaps 

EUGENIA LAST 
WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  
19  20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  
27  28  29  
30  31  32  33  34  35  36  37  38  
39  40  41  42  
43  44  45  
46  47  48  49  50  51  
52  53  54  55  56  
57  58  59  
60  61  62  63  64  65  66  
67  68  
69  70  71  

Puzzle by Tracy Gray 
37Philbin of live TV 52Michelle's 61Porker's pad 38“P.U.!” inducer predecessor as 
63Old-time actress 
first lady 

40See 34-Across Merkel53 Goof 
41“Hamlet” has five 
64Suffix with pay 
54 “Humble” home 42Fastball in the 

or plug 

dirt, say 55 Come back 65Driver's one­
47Kiddingly 56Zagat, to eighty
48Prefix with restaurants thermal 57Microwave 66How-___ (handy 50Jeopardy sound books) 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

Across 
1 The two together 
5 In fighting trim 
8 Sparks's state 
14Quick as a wink 
16For all, as a restroom 
17Online university
staff? 
18Trig function 
19Anthem 
contraction 
20Phone no. 
22Body designs,informally 
23What Nashville sunbathers acquire? 
27One to hangwith 
28Specialattention, for short 
29Golf ball's position 
30“Not on ___!” 

32Hasty escape 
34Ballplayer with a 40-Down logo 39Sign prohibiting
sunshades? 43At attention 44Sgt. or cpl. 45Like many fast-
food orders 46Bailed-out 

insurance co. 49Local govt. unit 51Make public 52Salon jobs from
apprenticestylists? 57Zinging remark 58Coffee, slangily 59Nest egg letters 60Where to find a piece of Turkey 
62“Stop that!” … and a hint to the answers to 17-, 23-, 39- and 52­Across 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
B  B  S  I  B  M  P  C  A  T  O  M  
E  L  O  R  A  T  I  O  M  A  K  O  
D  U  D  E  R  A  N  C  H  B  R  O  W  
E  T  O  N  K  O  D  I  A  K  S  
W  H  I  T  E  R  U  S  S  I  A  N  
S  K  I  S  T  A  N  T  E  S  
A  R  I  C  E  E  S  C  I  A  O  
P  A  R  D  O  N  M  Y  F  R  E  N  C  H  
O  B  O  E  E  N  D  O  O  H  O  
P  E  N  P  A  L  C  I  N  Q  
J  U  L  I  U  S  C  A  E  S  A  R  
A  L  A  T  E  E  N  I  A  G  O  
K  I  W  I  D  R  E  S  S  I  N  G  S  
I  D  E  E  T  E  V  Y  E  D  I  E  
N  O  D  S  O  P  A  R  T  Y  E  S  

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT AND JOHN FLATLEY 
PLEASANDVILLE 


LAURA McGINN 
TUESDAY VARIETY SHOW 

JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, oneletter to each square,to form four ordinary words. 
MULBA  

 
 
 
 
 

©2009 Tribune Media Services, Inc.All Rights Reserved. 
CIKHT  

 
 
 
 
 

BRUNAU  

 
 
 
 
 
 

BALTOC  

 
 
 
 
 
 

Answer: 
Yesterday’s 
BIBLE
le
o:
http://www
.tyndale
.com/jumb
le/ 

“ ” 


(Answers Monday) 

Jumbles: ERASE VAPOR JAGGED SICKEN 
Answer: When he made the girls ice creamdrinks, 
they said he was a—SODA “JERK” 
HENRI ARNOLD MIKE ARGIRION 
THATSCRAMBLEDWORDGAME byMikeArgirion andJeffKnurek 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer




Sports
Wednesday, December 8, 2010 page 16 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Freedom fighters 
No. 23 Irish renew rivalry against No. 17 Kentucky as team travels to Louisville 
By: ERIC PRISTER 
Associate Sports Editor 
Freedom Hall has not been kind to the No. 23 Irish, who have lost their last 10 games at the Louisville, Ky. arena. Notre Dame will try to break that streak while keeping alive an eight -game win streak to start the season as the face No. 17 Kentucky in the DIRECTV SEC/Big East Invitational tonight. 
“I feel like we’ve left games 
on the table there, even though we’ve played pretty well there against good teams,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “It’s not like it’s going to be foreign territory.” 
Kentucky and Notre Dame will meet for the 60th time, and while Kentucky holds a 41 -18 advantage in the series, the Irish won the last meeting during the 2009 NIT. 
“It’s a great night of bas­ketball,” Brey said. “When [Wildcats coach John Calipari] got the job, he talked about starting the 
JULIE HERDER/The Observer 

Senior forward Tyrone Nash looks for the rebound against two California defenders see BREY/page 13 during the Old Spice Classic semifinals in Orlando on Nov. 26. The Irish won 57-44. 

SMC BASKETBALL 



Belles beat Comets on thefoulline 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 

Clutch free throw shooting down the stretch helped Saint Mary’s hold on to beat Olivet Tuesday and grab its first conference win of the season. 
The game was hotly con­tested throughout, as nei­ther team led by more than eight points. The Belles (6­2, 1-1 MIAA) were victori­
ous despite being outre ­bounded 37-21 and giving up 11 second-chance oppor­tunities to the Comets. 
The key to victory for the Belles was their free throw shooting. They shot 15-18 from the line and made their last six with the game still hanging in the balance to seal the win. 
The Belles had a diverse 
offensive attack against Olivet. They ended up with four players scoring in dou­
see BELLES/page 12 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 


Irish open Big East season at Providence 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
The No. 18 Irish have faced an array of opponents from a variety of conferences in the first month of the season, but tonight marks a new begin­ning for Notre Dame as it opens its Big East schedule at Providence. 
“It’s [kind of] a clean slate,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said of opening the team’s conference season. “You know, the first game, it’s important to start off on a good note. So we want to go out with a lot of intensity. We worked on our defense today, I wasn’t really happy with our defense against Purdue so we spent some time on that today. That’s something we really want to improve on by the time we get to the Big East [Tournament].” 
Tonight’s game marks Notre Dame’s earliest Big East opener since the team’s title-run in the 2000-01 season when they defeated Villanova 64 -33 at home on Dec. 6, 2000, which is a fitting reoc­currence since this year marks the 10th anniversary of the program’s only national championship. 
But, as McGraw said, Notre Dame has improvements to make on their defense, as well as in other areas of its game in preparation for the tough conference slate. Many of these areas are ones she observed in Sunday’s contest against Purdue, which she called an “ugly present” for her birthday. 

“Blocking out. We missed a lot of box outs and executing on the offense,” McGraw said. “Just being smart with the ball and making good deci­sions.” 
McGraw hopes that the Irish will try to work the ball into Notre Dame’s post players, who have been very success­ful this season and scored the majority of the team’s points against Purdue. 
“We’re just trying to get the guards to look in a little bit more,” she said. “The posts have been very successful, we shot 50 percent from the field with all four of them [seniors Devereaux Peters and Becca Bruszewski, junior Erica Soloman and freshman Natalie Achonwa] combined [against Purdue], so they’re doing a really good job and we want to continue to look in because they’re playing well. We have to give them more touches.” 
Notre Dame’s guards have been just as essential to its success and ability to put up a fight in the first month of its season, especially sophomore Skylar Diggins and junior 
see MCGRAW/page 13 
HOCKEY 





Guentzel leads on the ice 

Senior right wing Ryan Guentzel fights for possession in a game against Michigan State on Nov. 19 at home. The Irish defeated the Spartans 6-2. 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 

After a subpar 2009 season, No. 12 Notre Dame has gotten off to a strong start to the 2010 campaign against a diffi­cult schedule. The winning atmosphere around the pro­gram means that things are back to normal for senior right wing Ryan Guentzel. Success on the ice is in the Minnesota native’s blood. 
Before he stepped foot on campus, Guentzel had already been immersed in winning for years. His father Mike has been involved in collegiate and youth hockey for years as one of the top assistant coach­es in Division I hockey. He guided Minnesota to the National Championship in 2001 and 2002 and earned five trips to the Frozen Four during his decade-plus behind the bench for the Golden Gophers. Ryan said the time around his father’s teams gave him a winning philoso­phy. 
“I think I bring in some win­ning experience,” Guentzel said. “I won a National Championship in juniors. My dad won a couple of National Championships coaching Division I hockey, too, so I’ve been around some teams where they’ve had success. I’ve just been trying to bring those philosophies into this 
see GUENTZEL/page 13 



