the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 



Haiti Program faculty, staff safe after earthquake 
Emergency responders use University facilities in Léogâne to conduct relief efforts; ND raises funds 
also known as bers are currently dis ­
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
Elephantiasis, a disease cussing the best way to pro-
News Editor 
that afflicts more than 26 ceed with the program in percent of the Haitian pop-light of the devastation. 
The University’s first pri-ulation. “The first step is to look 
ority 
after the 7.0-magni -Although Léogâne was one at what do we need to do to tude earthquake struck of the areas hit hardest by help the people in Léogâne Haiti last Tuesday was safe-the earthquake, the pro -and Haiti in general,” she ly evacuating faculty and gram ’s facilities are still said, “We want to be able to staff, associate provost standing, Sarah Miller, help get relief and aid to Dennis Jacobs said. Now assistant program manager, people, and after that it will that all faculty members said. be about how to rebuild our have returned, the adminis-“The engineering depart-program.” tration is determining the ment at Notre Dame gave In the aftermath of the next steps for the Notre recommendations about earthquake, Miller said she Dame Haiti program. building the buildings to has hope for the nation. 

“Attention now is focused earthquake status, so we “I think the country of 

on 
relief efforts and we’ll know that our facilities are Haiti was really making then focus more on rebuild-basically being used as a some wonderful improve ­ing efforts,” he said. base of operations for peo-ments and I want people to 


Located in Léogâne, the ple reaching out to help the know we see positive things Notre Dame Haiti program people in community, ” of this coming out of this in focuses on research to elim-Miller said. inate lymphatic filariasis, Miller said faculty mem-see HAITI/page 8 



RAs urge juniors to apply for position 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
With the beginning of spring semester comes a very important deadline — the one for resident assistant (RA) applications. 
This year’s RA applications consist of four short essays, three online surveys filled out by the applicant’s professors or employers and an inter­view pr ocess that differs according to each residence hall. RA decisions will be made close to Spring Break at the beginning of March, although the exact date varies with each dorm. 
There are many different reasons for applying to be an RA. Lindsey Zimmerman, a current RA in Cavanaugh, applied because her interac­tions with her RA freshman year made her want to take on the job. 
“[She] really had an impact on me and changed my Notre Dame experience,” Zimmerman said. “Your sup­port system is totally removed when you go to col­lege, so I think it’s really important to establish a wel­coming environment for everybody, but especially for 
see RA/page 8 


Holy Cross priests share experiences 
By LILY HOUGH 
News Writer 
Four Holy Cross priests left their liturgical vest ­ments behind Tuesday night to participate in an informal discussion titled “Men in Black: Holy Cross Stories” as a part of this week’s cele­bration of the Feast of Blessed Fr. Basil Moreau. The panel included Fr. Timothy Scully, Fr. Ralph Haag and Fr. Paul Doyle. Fr. Bill Lies, who participated on last year’s panel, served as the master of cere ­monies. 
Lies brought attention to the mission of the Congregation of Holy Cross at the discussion’s opening. 
“At the heart of our founder’s vision was that in Holy Cross, we would edu­cate not only the mind but the heart as well,” Lies said. “These three men have taken that mission to heart.” 
The panelists spent the night documenting their experiences and inspirations with slideshows of their families, college years, com­munity work and baby pic­tures. 
Scully, who majored in 
see PRIESTS/page 4 



COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Group addresses fundraising for Haiti crisis 



Council discusses Sunday’s assault near Transpo 7A bus; Schmidt wants ‘safe’ service 
tion boxes in all campus eater­ies and other prominent loca­tions and creating a link on hai­tidisaster.nd.edu to donate money online. 
Student body vice president Cynthia Weber said the total collected for the weekend was around $4,500, with $2,500 coming from the online dona­tions. 
COR members were pleased with the results but discussed other ways of raising aware­ness and funds for the people of 
see COR/page 8 

By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR) addressed the student efforts to raise money for relief in Haiti and Transpo safety in its first meeting of 2010 Tuesday. 
“The magnitude of the crisis in Haiti is very significant,” stu­dent body president Grant Schmidt said. “It merits a response from the University.” 
Initial fundraising efforts have included setting up dona-

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC holds book drive page 3  A review of ‘Avatar’ page 12  Meet the football assistants page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Wednesday, January 20, 2010 

INSIDE COLUMN 


All-Star voting 
The NBA All-Star Game is quickly approaching, and per usual Lebron James, Kobe Bryant and Dwight Howard all find themselves at the top of the balloting. No surprise there. But as you may or may not have heard, there’s a conspir­acy that threat­ens to destroy my favorite mid-season exhibi­tion. And we, the fans, started it. 

If voting ended 
Chris Masoud
today, Houston Rockets guard Tracy McGrady Sportsand Philadelphia 
Production 
76ers guard 
Editor
Allen Iverson would find them­selves starting in the 2010 All-Star Game. Does anyone else feel my pain? 
I’m not sure what goes through the minds of millions of voters, but I wouldn’t vote T-Mac onto my Bookstore Basketball team (yep, we’re that good). Correct me if I’m wrong, but we’re looking at a guy who has never even advanced past the first round of the playoffs, a guy who can’t find a single team to trade for him and a guy who sin­gle-handedly ruined my fantasy team in 2008 because of “knee injuries.” 
And then I finally realized who to blame. China. 
Now don’t get me wrong, because I happen to believe that Chinese fans are among the most knowl­edgeable and faithful fans of the NBA. But in the words of Ricky Bobby, lay off the peyote people. 
We all know your national hero Yao is out for the year and he’s not coming back. That doesn’t mean you have to show your support by voting for a bench bum who can’t even hold his own in the NBA any­more. I bet Yao doesn’t even like T-Mac. What, you think they hang out on the weekends with Luis Scola and play Yahtzee? Doubt it. 
But enough talk of McGrady. How about the ageless wonder himself, Allen Iverson? 
The “Answer” has been anything but for the past five years. He was the centerpiece in what will proba­bly go down as the worst trade in the history of the NBA, leading the Detroit Pistons to a first-round exit in the 2009 playoffs. 
But what am I talking about. I mean he’s supposed to be the fran­chise player, and we in here talkin’ about an exhibition. Not a game. Not a game. We talkin’ about an exhibition. 
There’s a reason he’s never been featured on the “NBA Cares” com­mercials. 
Bottom line, don’t keep great players, deserving players, like Monta Ellis and Ray Allen out of a meaningless game that we care so much about. As I always say, if you wouldn’t put them on your fantasy team, don’t put them on your All-Star rosters. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IFYOU COULD HAVEANY FAST FOOD RESTAURANT ON CAMPUS,WHATWOULDYOUWANT? 



Audrey Vitter 
freshman Badin 
“Chick-Fil-A. I’d rather eat a chicken than a cow.” 
Brian Becker  Brian Conway  
freshman Knott  sophomore St. Ed’s  
“Skyline. Real Chili.”  “Panera. Not only is it healthy but it tastes so much better than Sbarro.”  


SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer Students take a break from the cold weather to order warm hot chocolate and coffee drinks from Starbucks in LaFortune on Tuesday. 


OFFBEAT 
S.D. woman pleads guilty to drunk driving with .708 BAC 
STURGIS, S.D. — A South Dakota woman who prosecu­tors say had a blood-alcohol level almost nine times the legal driving limit has plead­ed guilty to two drunken driving charges. Authorities said 45-year-old Marguerite Engle was arrested Dec. 1 when she was found passed out behind the wheel of a stolen delivery van along Interstate 90, with a blood alcohol level at 0.708. The legal limit in South Dakota is 
0.08. Officials have said Engle’s blood alcohol level likely is a record for the state. 
She was arrested again in late December, with a blood alcohol level more than 3 1/2 times the legal limit. 
Engle faces up to two years in jail when she is sentenced on Feb. 23. In exchange for her guilty pleas, prosecutors have agreed not to pursue other charges, including receiving stolen property and drug possession. 
Maradona’s earing sold at auction for $36,000 
ROME — The earring that was confiscated from Diego Maradona as part payment of his tax arrears in Italy has been sold to an anony­mous woman at auction for 25,000 euros ($36,000), a spokesman for the agency organizing the sale said Thursday. 
The piece of jewelry was taken by police while Maradona was in Italy at a weight-loss clinic in September. 
The Argentina coach owes the Italian inland rev­enue more than 30 million euros stemming from unpaid taxes when he played for Napoli and helped them to win the Serie A title in 1987 and 1990. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Thursday friday 




Maricruz Menchero 
freshman Badin 
“Cosí. It’s like a Panera break but better.” 


IN BRIEF 
Poet and English professor Henry Weinfeld will read at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore tonight from 7:30 
p.m. to 9 p.m. 
Professor of Economics, Political Science, and Islamic Studies at Duke University Timur Kuran will deliver a lec­ture titled “Islam and Economic Underdevelopment: Legal Roots of Organizational Stagnation in the Middle East” on Thursday at 4:15 p.m. in room C-103 in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. All are welcome. 
The 21st Annual Notre Dame Student Film Festival will begin Thursday with screen­ings at 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. Tickets are $3 for students, $5 for faculty and $6 for the general public. Tickets can be purchased in advance by calling 574-631­2800. 
Theater L.A.: Theatre Works presents the world premiere of the RFK Project Friday in the Decio Mainstage Theatre at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 7 p.m. Tickets are $15 for students, $25 for facul­ty and $36 for the general pub­
lic. Call 574-631-2800 for tick­ets. 
The Ten Years Hence Speaker Series will host a panel discussion titled “The Ascent of Money” on Friday at 
10:40 a.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to 

saturday sunday 

45 

LOW 35 LOW 
25 
Atlanta 60 / 47 Boston 38 / 30 Chicago 36 / 20 Denver 47 / 23 Houston 74 /63 Los Angeles 57 /49 Minneapolis 31 / 18 New York 43 / 31 Philadelphia 42 / 31 Phoenix 68 / 42 Seattle 50 / 41 St. Louis 49 /36 Tampa 73 / 50 Washington 45 /33 
Wednesday, January 20, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 





Saint Mary’s takes part in book drive 
By BRITTANY VANSNEPSON 
News Writer 
The days of “invented spelling” in Indiana are over, as Sen. Richard Lugar implement­ed a book drive to benefit local elementary schools. 
The second annual book drive is part of a statewide outreach program to increase literacy in local schools through the dona­tion of gently used children’s books, for readers ranging from infants to third graders. 
Saint Mary’s College is one of the locations accepting book donations. Donation boxes are located in the lobby of the Student Center and in LeMans Hall’s Reignbeaux Lounge. 
“The drive gives my kids and I the incentive to go through the books on our shelves and make a pile of the ones that they have outgrown and can bear to let go,” Saint Mary’s director of media relations Gwen O’Brien said. 
The initiative of the book drive is to help children become more successful academically by gaining a greater proficiency as a young reader.      

“Books should be enjoyed again and again,” O’Brien said. 
Coquillard, Warren and Lincoln Primary Centers are the main beneficiaries of the book drive. 
Janet Martin, who originally bought several books for her grandchildren, decided to put her purchases to a better use by donating them to the book drive. 
“I decided my grandkids had enough books,” Martin said. 
Students who benefit from the drive might develop an earlier understanding of words, better pronunciation or a general expression of interest in read­ing. 
“There is nothing compared to the first page of a book and to know you are about to embark on a journey that costs you nothing but time,” Martin said. 
Contact Brittany Vansnepson at bvansn01@saintmarys.edu 



SMCInformationTechnologiesoffers computer security awareness lecture 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
With a variety of spyware, viruses and Trojans plaguing students’ computers, Saint Mary’s College Information Technology office decided to host a lecture to help students keep their computers safe. 
Kathy Hausmann, the College’s coordinator of student computing, spoke about the dif­ferent types of viruses, how to get them and how to prevent them. She also discussed the dangers of file sharing and phishing scams. 
“It’s a jungle out there,” Hausmann said. “The Internet is full of quicksand and you really don’t want to be trapped in it.” 
According to Hausmann, mal­ware is the word used to describe any type of computer virus including basic viruses, Trojans and worms. Hausmann said a typical virus is simply a program that is spread from one computer to another. 
Trojans are a type of computer virus that is installed because it appears to something else and, when clicked, downloads harm­ful files to a computer. 
“Trojans are just as they sound, the Trojan horse. You think that you’re getting one thing usually a free picture, movie, game, screensaver, and that’s not really what you’re downloading,” she said. 
Hausmann also explained that worms are viruses that can be installed on a computer just by connecting to the Internet. 
“We had a large problem with these a couple years ago. When students came back to campus in August they weren’t doing the software updates on their com­puters to keep them patched,” she said. “They all brought un­patched computers to campus in August and it was a miserable experience because the network was so infected that it literally took 60 seconds from the com­puter was connected and the computer was infected on the network if your computer wasn’t patched.” 
The best way to protect a computer from becoming infect­ed by viruses is to install the newest version of antivirus soft­ware. Hausmann also suggested updating computers regularly. For Saint Mary’s students, McAfee antivirus software is available free of charge from the Saint Mary’s Web site. 
Another topic covered in the lecture was how to determine if an e-mail is legitimate or if it is a phishing scam. Hausmann said one way to tell is to double check who the e-mail is from. She also said to pay attention to whether or not the e-mail is per­sonalized. If the e-mail does not have your name in the greeting, it is most likely a phishing scam. 
“Phishing is the attempt to acquire your personal informa­tion fraudulently. They’ll pre­tend to be Saint Mary’s or a bank or a store or a the IRS or some other legitimate institution so that they can receive your personal information,” Hausmann said. “Phishers are identity thieves. Personally I think that phishing is one of the biggest threats to Saint Mary’s students. I say that because I have seen the number of stu­dents … and faculty and staff who have responded to phishing scams on campus.” 
According to Hausmann, 65 students, faculty and staff responded to phishing scams. The best way to avoid phishing scams is to refrain from responding and to delete the e­mail that was attempting to phish your personal information. 
Hausmann also encouraged students to avoid using peer-to­peer (P2P) software sharing agents because these programs often share information without consent of the computer owner. 
“Simply by having peer-to­peer software on your computer could also be sharing files from your computer without your knowledge,” Hausmann said. 
The lecture was offered at three different times Tuesday and will be held again Wednesday at noon and 7 p.m. in Vander Vennet Theatre in the Student Center. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 20, 2010 
law school after seminary, follow the double file line to whose hobbies include “mak-I had,” Haag said. “It was 
but his Superior sent him to Mass, Scully said he and his ing beer, bass fishing and time to finally consider what 
Priests 
Chile instead.  friends always attempted to playing Halo,” according to  
continued from page 1  “My entire imagination of  s n e a k d o w n Lies, gave serious  
what my priesthood would be  an alley that c o n s i d e r a t i o n t o  
econ o mi c s a t N ot re D am e, gave a familiar account of  about came crashing down,” he said.  led to a bak­the vocation. “I fell in love withery. H a a g s a i d h e  
his memories as a student in  But Chile was a new reve­ “ A s m u c h Notre Dame because a l r e a d y h a d a n  
the 1980s. “Like any Notre Dame stu­dent, I had a ball. I fell in love with this place,” Scully  lation, Scully said. “I fell in love with Chile, with its people, geography, s o n g a n d c u l t u r e , ” S c u l l y  as we l ov ed internship lined up I fell in love with the t h e for after gra d ua-priests of HolyE u c h a r i s t , t i o n , a n d h a d n o we loved the Cross.” plans for the semi- 
said.  said. “God has such a funny  bakery more nary.  
But Scully found something else at Notre Dame, which changed his plans to follow in his father’s footsteps and  way of pointing our feet in the way of God’s plan.” B u t n o t a l l o f S c u l l y ’s r e f l e c t i o n s w e r e f i t f o r a  a t t h a t “The funny thing Fr. Timothy Scully hour,” Scully is, everything was professorsaid. g o i n g r i g h t a n d Haag’s ini­political science e v e n t h e f u t u r e  
attend law school.  homily. In one account, he  t i a l u n c e r -w a s f a l l i n g i n  
“I fell in love with Notre  remembered being marched  t a i n t i e s place,” he said.  
Dame because I fell in love  to Church every morning by  about priest-B u t s o m e t h i n g  
w i t h t h e p r i e s t s o f H o l y  t h e n u n s o f h i s c h i l d h o o d  hood echoed Scully’s reflec­was wrong, Haag said.  
Cross,” Scully said.  parish school Sacred Heart  tions. It wasn’t until his jun­“ T h e r e w a s n ’t j o y i n t h e  
Scully requested to attend  in Winnetka, Ill. Rather than  ior year of college that Haag, things and achievements that  


had been in my thoughts for some time, thoughts that I had wanted to avoid and had avoided for so long. But they could no longer be avoided.” 
Choosing priesthood was just the beginning of Haag’s vocational search. When it came to choosing an order, Haag couldn’t find anything that felt right, he said. 
“Every time I went out, I couldn’t wait to get home. I couldn ’t wait to leave. I began to think that this just wasn’t me and I thought the same thing was going to hap­pen when I came to Holy Cross,” where he said some­thing was different. 
“I caught myself saying I wish I didn ’t have to go home,” Haag said. “My eyes were open to see where I was supposed to be and that was at Holy Cross.” 
This exciting discovery was not the end, but a new beginning, Haag said. 
After spending most of his early years in the priesthood at St. Gregory Parish in Phoenix, Ariz., Haag moved on to a new assignment as rector of St. Edward’s Hall, which he has found to be “never a dull moment.” 
“There’s always something going on at St. Ed’s,” Haag said. “To be able to be pres­ent in this life from the most mundane to the most pro ­found, I have discovered is a rare gift and a rare opportu­nity. The residents have become your own in a cer­tain way and in time, you find that they have been changing your own heart and mind.” 
Haag said he had no resentments about the dis­tance between himself in South Bend and his family in Omaha. 
“What I’ve learned through this all is that I really haven’t given up family or home. It’s like the Gospel says, I’ve gained so much more,” Haag said. 
For Doyle, the issue of leaving his family behind was also of concern when choosing a religious order. Flipping through old family photos, Doyle expressed his past worries about not being able to provide for his par­ents in their elderly life. 
“But the Lord has provid­ed,” Doyle said. “If we just step out in faith, the answers come.” 
Doyle’s answers came from what he called “surprising encounters” from the Spirit throughout his childhood and early adult life. 
“God comes to us in all sorts of disguises, ” Doyle said. “Incarnate. He takes on flesh.” 
With his discussion of fami­ly, Doyle emotionally recalled his last conversation with his father. 
“He said to me, ‘God bless you, son.’ I think, through my parents, God has touched me richly,” Doyle said. 
Doyle also discussed what a special role family plays in the mission of Holy Cross, mentioning his admiration for the Congregation’s care of the elderly. 
“I have found that after 40 years, these people are more than friends; they are broth­ers, ” Doyle said. “I look around the chapel as we pray together and I say ‘I love these guys.’” 
Contact Lily Hough at lhough1@nd.edu 
World & Nation 
Wednesday, January 20, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Israel arrests prominent activists 
JERUSALEM — Israel is arresting a growing number of prominent opponents to its policies toward the Palestinians, say critics who are accusing the government of trying to crush legitimate dissent. 
In the most high-profile case yet, Jerusalem police detained the leader of a leading Israeli human rights group during a vigil against the eviction of Palestinian families whose homes were taken by Jewish settlers. 
Since the summer, dozens of Palestinian and Israeli activists have been picked up, including those organizing weekly protests against Israel’s West Bank separation barrier as well as others advocating international boycotts of Israeli goods. 
Some of the Palestinians were released with­out charge only after weeks and months of questioning. 
U.K. plans to regulate binge-drinking 
LONDON — Bar-going Britons may soon be bidding goodbye to their country’s all-you-can­drink deals — as well as some of their more out­landish drinking games. 
The government said Tuesday it was banning irresponsible promotions and boozy contests such as the “dentist’s chair” — where alcohol is poured directly into customers’ mouths — in an effort to tackle Britain’s binge-drinking problem. 
The government says the ban will limit binge-drinking, but health experts say the nation’s deepening alcohol problem would best be tack­led by imposing higher minimum prices on Britain’s cheap booze. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Mayor testifies in gay marriage trial 
SAN FRANCISCO — The mayor of San Diego testified Tuesday that he regretted opposing same-sex marriage before learning his daughter was a lesbian in a committed relationship. 
Mayor Jerry Sanders said his change of heart was a defining personal moment. 
“I had been prejudiced,” he said during a civil trial on the constitutionality of California’s ban on gay marriage. “I was saying one group of people did not deserve the same respect, did not deserve the same symbolism of marriage, and I was saying their marriages were less important than those of heterosexuals.” 
Sanders, a Republican, took the witness stand on behalf of two same-sex couples suing to over­turn Proposition 8, the state’s voter-approved ban. 
Va. shooting leaves several dead 
APPOMATTOX, Va. — A lone shooter was responsible for multiple deaths and injuries Tuesday and more than 100 law enforcement officials had him circled in woods where they believe he is hiding, state police said. 
A spokeswoman could not say how many were dead or injured in the shootings or what sparked the violence. 
The gunman also fired at a sheriff’s deputy and a state police helicopter, which had to land with a ruptured fuel tank after one or more rounds struck it, the spokeswoman, Corrine Geller, said. No police were injured. 
“We believe we have the male suspect con­fined in a wooded area,” Geller said. 
The violence began shortly after noon when an injured man was found on a rural stretch of road. A deputy who went to investigate fled after he heard gunshots, Geller said. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Daniels addresses education 
INDIANAPOLIS — Gov. Mitch Daniels urged lawmakers during his State of the State speech Tuesday night to end the practice of schools promoting third graders to the fourth grade even if they cannot read well. 
“We must address the single greatest cause of student failure, the inability of so many of our children to read proficiently,” Daniels told a House chamber packed with lawmak­ers, judges and others. 
“If a school accomplishes nothing else in a child’s decisive first years, it simply must enable him or her to read and comprehend the English language,” he said. 
Brown wins Massachusetts seat 
Upset costs Democrats the supermajority, threatens Obama’s healthcare plan 
Associated Press 
BOSTON — Four years ago, the Massachusetts lieu­tenant governor passed over Scott Brown as a potential running mate in her bid to replace then-Gov. Mitt Romney because she and her staff saw him as a politi­cal lightweight. 
On Tuesday, Brown pulled off a huge political upset, defeating Democrat Martha Coakley — in one of the bluest states in the country 
— to succeed the late Sen. Edward M. Kennedy. 
Brown not only regained control of a seat the Democrats had held for over a half-century, but gave the GOP the vote it needed to break the Democrats’ Senate supermajority and block the health care overhaul nearly finished by President Barack Obama. He was the first Republican elected to the Senate from Massachusetts since 1972. 
Those who know Brown are not surprised. 
“He’s a triathlete,” said state Rep. Richard Ross, a fellow Republican from Brown’s hometown of Wrentham. “He’s a competi­tor, and a lot of people underestimated that. He out­works other people.” 
The 50-year-old Brown seized on Coakley’s early traded on his matinee good from nothing and worked tioned him.” complacency in the abbrevi-looks for work as a model, my way up.” Brown grew up in ated campaign to define and while still in law school, On the campaign trail and Wakefield and attended himself as a truck-driving he posed nude for in debates, Brown drew Tufts University in nearby everyman, a doting father Cosmopolitan magazine — in bright lines between himself Medford. He now is both a and the candidate best suit-a photo spread with a strate-and his Democratic oppo-lieutenant colonel and the ed to push back against a gically placed crease in the nent — something National Guard’s top defense Democratic -dominated magazine. Democrats believed hurt attorney in New England. Senate. Later he enlisted in the Coakley. Although he’s never been 
While Coakley was largely National Guard and Massachusetts Democratic deployed, he has been on out of view after she launched a political career political consultant Mary assignments in Paraguay trounced three primary that took him from the Ann Marsh said Brown was and Kazakhstan. opponents, Brown held daily Wrentham Board of able to capitalize on his Brown met his wife, Gail press events. He also posted Selectmen to the strengths during the brief Huff, now a reporter for the first television ad of the Massachusetts House and sprint to the special election, Boston’s WCVB-TV, in 1985 final election stretch, an Senate. in part because Coakley and and the couple married a audacious spot in which he Brown said his dedication her supporters sat back after year later. They have two compared himself to to hard work and family she won the Democratic pri-daughters. Ayla, 21, made it Kennedy’s revered brother, grew out of a difficult child-mary. to the top 16 performers in the late President John F. hood. “In a six-week race, he 2006 on TV’s “American Kennedy. “I didn’t come from a lot of was given the advantage of Idol.” Her sister, Arianna, is 
Reinvention is a skill money,” he said during a having the field to himself 19. Brown has used throughout debate. “My parents are for the first four weeks,” she Brown said his ties to his his career, seizing opportuni-divorced a few times. My said. “He was able to define home state run deep. ties where he found them. mom was on welfare for a himself, define the race and “I was raised here and I’ll 
As an undergraduate, he period of time. I really came define her, and nobody ques-probably die here,” he said. 

Haitians already in U.S. seek protection 
Director Alejandro Mayorkas said only Some also asked whether they could 
Associated Press 
those in the U.S. before the earthquake get help paying the filing fees up to 
MIAMI — Haitians are so eager for hit would will be eligible, and he $470, including employment authoriza­information about a federal designation warned that early applications would be tion. McGrorty said a fee waiver was that will let illegal immigrants work delayed. available, though he discouraged it temporarily in the U.S., they bombarded “I want a driver’s license,” said because it could delay an application. a Catholic church here even though the Fritznel Monneus, 34, who left a hurri-Although the government has cau­program doesn’t start until Thursday. cane-ravaged Haiti in November 2008. tioned the protection is temporary — 18 
More than 1,000 Haitians lined up “I want TPS. I want an ID. I want to be months — some of those applying hoped this week outside the Notre Dame working right now.” it would lead to a longer reprieve. d’Haiti Catholic Church in Miami’s Little Randy McGrorty, head of Catholic Immigrants from Central American Haiti neighborhood to ask questions Charities Legal Services, fielded ques-countries have had the designation for about how to apply for temporary pro-tions at the Miami church, mostly in more than a decade after a hurricane. tected status. Some were told to come Creole. He told some that family mem-Applicants must prove their Haitian back the following day. Others have bers wouldn’t be able come from Haiti citizenship as well as their residence in showed up at immigration law offices and seek the status, and that applicants the U.S. before the earthquake struck and community centers elsewhere in likely wouldn’t qualify for college finan-Jan. 12. Advocates urged people to col-Florida as well as New York and New cial aid. Generally, government benefits lect rent receipts, utility bills, employ-Jersey. aren’t available for those with the tem-ment records and medical records to 
Citizenship and Immigration Services porary status. show they lived here. 
page 6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, January 20, 2010 
The Observer 
Business
Wednesday, January 20, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

IN BRIEF 
Google delays phone release in China 
SAN FRANCISCO — Google has delayed the debut of two mobile phones designed to con­nect with its Internet services in China, widen­ing the void that might be opened if the com­pany and Beijing can’t resolve their rift over online censorship and security. 
The phones, made by Motorola and Samsung, use the Android operating system, created by Google to steer people to its search engine and other services. China Unicom Ltd. was supposed to be the carrier. 
The postponement Tuesday is the latest aftershock from Google’s threat to shut down its services in China, which could cut off the world’s most populous country from Google’s services through any kind of computer or phone. 
Google says it will remain in China only if the government relents on rules requiring the censorship of content the ruling party consid­ers subversive. The ultimatum came last week after Google said it uncovered a computer attack that tried to plunder its software coding and the e-mail accounts of human rights activists protesting Chinese policies. 
Market sees crude oil prices rise 
Crude oil followed the stock market up on Tuesday, settling higher for the first time in five sessions. 
Investors boosted health stocks, watching a Massachusetts election to fill the seat of the late Sen. Edward M. Kennedy. Some hoped for a Republican victory that would make it more difficult for Senate Democrats to pass a health care bill. The Dow Jones Industrial Average was up nearly 100 points in afternoon trad­ing. 
Wholesale gasoline prices also moved high­er after the MasterCard SpendingPulse report for the week ended Friday showed gasoline consumption rose 3.2 percent with the week before and 2.3 percent from the same week a year ago. Traders have been looking for signs that gasoline demand is starting to pick up to justify oil prices that have more than doubled in the past year. 
SpendingPulse is a division of MasterCard Advisors that tracks total sales paid for by credit card, checks and cash.have been mod­est so far. 
Citigroup reports massive losses 
Despite financial problems, banking firm still plans on large executive bonuses 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Citigroup  
Inc. became the latest  
bank to take a cautious  
view of consumers’ credit  
problems, reporting a  
$7.77 billion fourth-quar­ 
ter loss due to failed loans  
and the costs of repaying  
$20 billion in government  
bailout money.  
Even with the loss,  
Citigroup, the hardest hit  
of the big U.S. banks dur­ 
ing the credit crisis and  
recession, plans to give big  
bonuses this month to its  
top employees.  
The earnings report  
Tuesday, which met ana­ 
lysts’ expectations, reflect­ 
ed Citigroup’s struggles  
and changing status in the  
banking industry. The  
company was forced to set  
aside $8.18 billion to cover  
the loans consumers can’t  
repay, joining other big  
lenders who are still losing  
money on loans. But  
Citigroup, having been  
forced to shed its big  
investment banking and  
brokerage businesses dur­ 
ing the banking crisis,  
lacked those buffers  
against losses that other  
major financial companies AP  
still have. An exterior view of Citibank is seen in Mountain View, Calif., Tuesday. Hard-hit by the  
The company’s focus, recession, Citigroup reported a $7.77 billion dollar fourth-quater loss.  
therefore is on loans,  
which are deeply troubled  similar to that of  before banks like Citigroup  to almost $7.77 billion, or  
but showing some very  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  are strong enough to lend  33 cents per share. That  
early signs of improve- when it reported Friday  at historical norms. Many  compared with a loss of  
ment. For example, the  that it earned $3.28 billion  economists and investors  $18.16 billion, or $3.40 a  
addition to Citigroup’s loan  during the fourth quarter  are concerned that this  share, a year earlier. In  
reserves was down 10 per- thanks to its strong invest- trend could slow the eco­ the third quarter of 2009,  
cent from the third quar­ ment banking unit.  nomic recovery.  it lost $3.24 billion after  
ter, and 36 percent from a  JPMorgan said it set aside  “They’re just crawling  paying dividends. The lat- 
year earlier.  $7.28 billion for failed  out of the ditch now,”  est results were in line  
And John Gerspach,  loans during the quarter,  Smith said of banks.  with analysts’ expecta­ 
Citigroup’s chief financial  nearly identical to the  2009 was a year of dras­ tions, according to  
officer, noted during a con- amount it reserved for bad  tic change at Citigroup,  Thomson Reuters.  
ference call with the media  loans during the final  and it may turn out to  “They’re trying to keep  
that the number of mort­ quarter in 2008. It also  have the poorest fourth- up with firms in a much  
gage and credit card loans  warned that it didn’t know  quarter showing among  better position,” Alois  
that were newly delin- when it would be able to  the big banks because it  Pirker, a research director  
quent, or between one and  stop adding to its loan  lacks the big investment  at consultancy Aite Group,  
three months past due,  reserves.  bank and trading opera- said of Citigroup. “Because  
had started to stabilize and  Gregg Smith, a senior  tions that have helped  of that, (Citigroup is) in a  
even drop in some of its  managing director at  other companies like  higher risk position.”  
lending portfolios.  restructuring firm Conway  JPMorgan Chase offset  Pirker said the bank has  
However, “the U.S. credit  MacKenzie, said  their losses from bad  done well in recent quar­ 
story is still very much  Citigroup’s results show  loans.  ters to control costs. Now  
developing,” Gerspach  the lending business is sta- The bank’s loss after  its profitability will turn on  
said.  bilizing. But he also noted  accounting for payment of  how its loan portfolios per­ 
Gerspach’s caution was  it will be a long time  preferred dividends came  form this year, he said.  

Fed chief calls for review of AIG bailout 
Associated Press picture of the AIG bailout. Those law-of information available to the public makers are especially interested in and provided information to other over-
WASHINGTON — Federal Reserve details involving billions in payments sight bodies such as the Special Chairman Ben Bernanke took the AIG made to Goldman Sachs and other Inspector General for the Troubled Asset unusual step Tuesday of asking Wall Street firms that did business with Relief Program. Congress’ investigative arm to conduct a the insurer. Some lawmakers want to Congress passed a law last year giving “full review” of the Fed’s role in bailing know why those firms were fully paid the GAO authority to review Fed docu­out insurance giant American and why concessions weren’t demand-ments in the AIG bailout. The GAO said International Group. ed. Bernanke’s request will be weighed 
The Fed chief’s move is aimed at “To provide a comprehensive against other demands on the agency’s defusing criticism of the government’s response to questions that have been staff. $182 billion rescue. The bailout sparked raised by members of Congress, the Rep. Darrell Issa of California, the top public outrage and demands in Federal Reserve would welcome a full Republican on the House Oversight and Congress for more information, especial-review by GAO of all aspects of our Government Reform Committee, sound­ly after it was revealed that millions in involvement” in the AIG bailout,” ed a skeptical note about Bernanke’s bonuses would go to employees in the Bernanke wrote in a letter to the interest in openness. AIG division most responsible for the Government Accountability Office, the “If the Fed is as vested in oversight company’s need for a bailout. investigative arm of Congress. and transparency as they claim in this 
The House Committee on Oversight Bernanke said the Fed already has letter, they should be quick to provide us and Government Reform has a probe provided information to Congress on the with all the support we need to complete under way that seeks to provide a fuller AIG rescue, has made “a large amount” this bipartisan investigation,” Issa said. 
page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, January 20, 2010 
Haiti 
continued from page 1 
the way Haitians are step­ping up to help,” she said. 
Jacobs said the University has a unique ability to aid the relief effort. 
“We are privileged in a way to have a relationship with Haiti through the Haiti program and with the Congregation of Holy Cross’s presence in Haiti,” he said. “Through those relationships and that net­work, we may have an abil­ity to help and service bet­ter than if we had no rela­tionships in that country. We also have people here 
on 
campus with great familiarity with Haiti and 

opportunities 
and limita ­tions of working in Haiti.” 


The University launched the site haitidisaster.nd.edu shortly after the earth ­quake. The Web site details information about donating to the Notre Dame Haiti 
P r o g r a m  a n d  o t h e r  r e l i e f  
s e r v i c e s  h e l p i n g  i n  t h e  
country.  

Donations will be collect­ed at Basilica Masses over the next two weeks, and the University held a Mass Monday to pray for the vic­tims. 
“This disaster has also directly impacted the Notre Dame community. Alumni, students, faculty and staff with family and friends in Haiti are seeking informa­tion about colleagues and loved ones, ” University President Fr. John Jenkins said in a message online. “There has been an out ­pouring of concern and interest because these indi­vidual relationships and 
other institutional initia ­tives have enhanced the University ’s connection with Haiti over the years.” 
Student government and student clubs have also ral­lied to collect money for the relief effort. Student body president Grant Schmidt said that more than $4,800 has been raised by Tuesday night. 
Student government will continue to collect dona ­tions through Friday, and they are still communicat­ing about how best to donate the money. 
American Red Cross, Catholic Relief Services, fundraising efforts of Friends of the Orphans, Congregation of Holy Cross and the Notre Dame Haiti Program will each receive at least 10 percent of the funds. 
Friends of the Orphans, an on -campus group that supports nine orphanages in Latin America and the Caribbean, is holding a benefit concert next Wednesday to raise money as well. 
“For this interest in sup­porting the relief effort, what we want to do is col­lect money and give it to a set of agencies that could put it to good use right away,” Jacobs, who helped advise Schmidt on estab ­lishing a plan to help, said. “I think the University nat­urally wants to reach out and help in any case when people are hurting and a natural disaster such as this is a this causes this amount of devastation.” 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
RA 
better people after taking the job because it touches so 
many aspects of their lives. 
continued from page 1 “Aside from giving back to the dorm, there is a lot of the freshmen.” personal growth that you Christina Karam, an RA in will experience as an RA,” McGlinn, applied for similar Sayles said. “You develop reasons. better time management, “I first thought about organization, communica­
being an RA freshman year because I “Aside from giving loved my RA,” 
back to the dorm,
Karam said. 
there is a lot of per­
“I’m a people person and I sonal growth that you love giving 
will experience
advice, so I 
as an RA.” 
thought that 
one day I 
would love to Michael Sayles help freshmen 
resident assistant 
adjust to life 
Sorin Hall
at Notre Dame.” 
ance between enforcing rules and “[The most diffcult forming rela­
part of being an RA
tionships with 
is] realizing what a
the students in his section big time commit-is difficult, he 
ment it is.” 
said. 
“Sometimes [students ’] Lindsey Zimmerman efforts at hav-resident assistant ing fun go Cavanaugh Hall beyond what ’s tion, and peo­ple skills. You learn a lot about leader­ship and how to be a leader not only in terms of a group, but in the way that you live your life.” 
Zimmerman said meeting new people is another one 
of people I wouldn’t have met otherwise.” 
Although being an RA is extremely demanding, Ruehlmann encouraged underclassmen to apply for the job. 
“Know that it’s more work than you might expect, but don’t let that 
COR 
continued from page 1 
Haiti. 
“People have been very quick to donate and are in a giving mood,” Weber said. “We need to look at ways to harness their energy and give them more ways in which to donate.” 
COR members suggested passing around the donation boxes at high-atten­sure that the assault became an isolated incident. 
“We want to make sure this service we are providing is safe,” he said. “We don’t want events like this to be happen­ing.” 
COR members acknowl­edged that this was the only violent incident to occur in the four weekends that the 7A Transpo route has been run­ning and agreed that the serv­ice is safe, but said that stu­dents need to be more aware 
of the bus’s exact 
route. 
Schmidt said dance cam-“We want to make pus events 
there would be 
sure this service we
such as small cards printed AcoustiCafé are providing that would have the exact route, stops 
and the is safe.” 
upcoming and times of the men’s and Transpo bus, com­women’s Grant Schmidt plete with phone basketball student body president numbers for NDSP 
games. 
Another suggestion included designing a T-shirt for the student body to purchase with profits going directly to the Haiti cause. 
Schmidt and Weber said the money that has been collected is going into its own account. Fifty percent of the funds will be distributed to five charities dedicated specifically to Haiti, including the Holy Cross Mission in Haiti, the Red Cross, the Catholic Relief Fund, the Notre Dame Haiti Program and Friends of the Orphans. 
The remaining 50 percent of the donations will be sent to organizations and relief efforts that student leaders decide on at the end of the week. 
Schmidt also addressed the incident that resulted in the assault of three Notre Dame students by a Transpo bus stop early Sunday morning. 
Schmidt said he had been in contact with Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) and Transpo and wanted to make the South Bend 
Police Department. The cards will then distributed to the student body. 
“We’re printing the cards because we need to emphasize as leaders that students still need to be cautious,” Schmidt said. In other COR news: 
u Schmidt brought up “The Mobile Party” comic that ran in The Observer Jan. 13 and the response that it has creat­ed. 
“Obviously, student govern­ment does not approve and we are going propose in the Senate that a task force be created that can address the homophobic nature on cam­pus,” Schmidt said. 
COR members noted that sexual orientation was not part of the non-discrimination clause on campus and Schmidt said Student Government was looking into the legality of adding sexual orientation to the clause. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 
The RA job has many ben­efits, among them paid room and board and free laundry service. 
The position also has many drawbacks, according to Keith Ruehlmann, an RA in Dillon. Finding the bal­of advantages of being an RA. 
“I love just really getting to know all the people in the dorm,” Zimmerman said. “With all the hall staff I’ve made six new best friends, and I’ve gotten to know a lot 
expected and responsible,” Ruehlmann said. “It becomes difficult crossing over from being their friend to being the enforcer of rules and the guy who ruins their fun.” 
Zimmerman said under­standing the full extent of the enormous time commit­ment that being an RA entails is also difficult. RAs are typically on duty at least once a week and every other weekend. 
“[The most difficult part of being an RA is] realizing what a big time commitment it is,” Zimmerman said. “You have these chunks of time that you have to set out every day for it.” 
Despite these drawbacks, the RA job also has many emotional and psychological benefits. Karam said the job has really enhanced her senior year. 
“It makes it more about others, rather than your­self,” Karam said. “You get to share your experiences as an underclassman with your residents, and watch them relive the same moments you had in previous years. It’s a very rewarding experi­ence.” 
Michael Sayles, an RA in Sorin, said RAs mature into deter you from becoming an RA,” Ruehlmann said. “It’s easily one of the most rewarding things I’ve done here at [Notre Dame] and I’ve loved almost every minute of it.” 

Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 

Wednesday, January 20, 2010 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
page 10 Wednesday, January 20, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
John Tierney Michael Bryan Liz O’Donnell Molly Sammon John Cameron Bobby Helms 
Viewpoint Scene 
Patricia Maija Gustin Fernandez Graphics Sofia Iturbe 
All eyes on us 
Last week’s Viewpoint section was a flurry of activity. As most students are aware, an offensive comic ran, went viral, then national, and resulted in an atypical backlash against both the comics, the editors of The Observer and the University at large. Let me begin by saying this is not a column about Jay, Lauren, Colin or Kara, all of whom have been and con­tinue to be my 

Jason Coleman
friends. Rather, this is an attempt 
to move onto the Man at Large larger issue here, homosexuality at Notre Dame, and some of the issues endemic to this place. 
Any conversation on this topic must begin with dorm life. For many students and alumni alike, the dorm system is the crown jewel of the Notre Dame experience. The single-sex dorms, seemingly bogus to students at other schools, create a sense of fraternity and lasting friendship. However, they are also fetid breeding grounds for rampant homosexual words, phrases and jokes. I can personally attest to the late night use of the “F” word thrown in all direc­tions, whether at opposing sports teams, kids down the hall or even online video game opponents. It is a culture that is accepting for those obliv­ious to its shortcomings, and, I can only imagine, somewhat terrifying for those whom it targets. 
How then, can this issue be fixed? After all, the dorm system is organic, based on random assortments of stu­dents from all over the world. The answer itself lies in this random, diverse group of students thrown together. Because of our university’s strides towards diversity, ethnic and socioeconomic groups from everywhere are assigned as roommates, section friends and dorm members. For this reason, students are much more sensi­tive to racial issues, and as a result 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
those types of slurs are catapulted across hallways and dorm rooms rarely, and not without consequence. It appears, then, that the University must become friendlier towards LGBT appli­cants, and make better efforts to encourage them to apply here so that students do not only experience racial diversity, but diversity across all walks of American life. 
To this end, the University not only does not commit itself actively towards finding students from this group, it sub­versively discourages them from apply­ing in the first place. This comes in two flavors. The first is the University’s annual rejection of any Gay Straight Alliance’s application for official recog­nition. While other clubs on campus, notably the Progressive Student Alliance, work within official status for change, this is not sufficient in demon­strating to prospective students the University’s commitment towards LGBT issues. As a prospective student, I remember scanning the list of clubs and picking out which ones sounded fun or relevant to my interests. To imagine that prospective LGBT students are not doing the same thing and feel­ing discouraged to apply would be luna­cy. In a way the Black Student Association or the Asian American association can provide for the needs of its members with official backing, why can a GSA not provide for LGBT stu­dents? 
The second flavor of discouragement comes from repeated refusals by the administration to amend the non-dis­crimination policy, which governs both employment and attendance at this school, to include sexual orientation as a protected group. Thirteen years ago, the University prepared the “Spirit of Inclusion,” a statement which made special efforts to welcome the gay com­munity to Notre Dame. While this action is certainly appreciated, it lacks any real meat that would hold the University to its actions. The non-dis­crimination clause would put some con­viction behind the words written in the statement. 
In its rejection of both a GSA and an amendment to the non-discrimination policy, the University has cited Church doctrine, teaching, etc. Other critics have also been concerned with legal loopholes that would be opened by amending the non-discrimination poli­cy. I am not a trained theologian by any stretch of the imagination, nor am I a legal scholar (despite taking Business Law). However, I have looked into the policies of a number of other major uni­versities. It turns out that almost every university which I looked into, including our entire football schedule for next year, Georgetown, Loyola and even small Misericordia University in Dallas, Penn. is on board. This indicates to me that the legal and theological implica­tions of changes at our university have been considered carefully at many other schools, and found to be quite appropriate and worth the price of change. To not make these changes will only cast a serious shadow over our university’s attempts to be open and accepting in both word and action. 
As this goes to press, the Progressive Student Alliance (a group to which I have no official relation) is circulating its petition to amend the discrimination policy. Last year, they were able to col­lect signatures of nearly 20 percent of the students, faculty and staff and were still denied. Please contact them to find out how you can get on the petition, as it appears this will have to go big if it is going to happen. Second, for any infor­mation regarding Church teaching and homosexuality, please hop over to the Notre Dame Core Council for Gay and Lesbian students Web page. In my four years, I have never felt an opportunity as strong as the one now to have a true dialogue at Notre Dame, and there is strong reason to believe that all eyes are on us. 
Jason Coleman is a senior accounting major. He can be contacted at coleman.70@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author adnd not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Art is the desire of a man to express himself, to record the reactions of his personality to theworld he lives in.” 
Amy LowellAmerican poet 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I shall not waste my days in tryingto prolong them.” 
Ian FlemingBritish author 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
Wednesday, January 20, 2010 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Clarification 
The creative group responsible for the offensive comic strip that appeared in last Wednesday’s Observer would like to issue a clarification regarding the per­sons involved. The Mobile Party is the work of a large creative group, but three people are credited in the byline. Often some of these people do not contribute to individual comic strips, as is the case with last week’s issue. The graphics were prepared by Colin Hofman and the content was co-developed by two individuals from the creative group who have elected to not come forward at this time. The Jan. 13 comic strip was not written or approved by Jay Wade or Lauren Rosemeyer and we would like to apologize to them. 
Colin Hofman, Jay Wade and Lauren Rosemeyer 
seniors Jan. 18 
Family life at Notre Dame 
This past summer my 1-year old son and I traveled to Le Mans, France, to visit the mother church of the Holy Cross family and the resting place of Blessed Fr. Basil Moreau. Above the marble tomb of Fr. Moreau — around which my son toddled happily for half an hour — is fixed a stone relief of the Holy Family at work: Mary threads, Joseph works wood and Jesus helps. This is an artful meditation on the heart of the Holy Cross charism. Its saintly founder envisioned his sisters, brothers and priests to be like the Holy Family, working together in a familial love for God, each other and those they serve. 
At Notre Dame today, there exists a vibrant culture around family life that is striking and attractive. Undergraduate stu­dents fall in love and marry; faculty and staff enjoy a strong emphasis on raising family in the University community, and as a graduate student the difference between here and other universities regarding the welcoming of a child is great. Much of this culture is undoubtedly a gift from the Holy Cross religious community. 
While the culture of family life at Notre Dame is in some dimensions exemplary, the University’s supports for graduate student families in other ways are failing. Notre Dame’s stipends are much lower than those of its peer institutions, as noted by an inde­pendent review of the Graduate School by the Council of Graduate Schools in 2008. Notre Dame also does not regularly increase stipends to meet inflation or even the level offered to incoming classes, with the result that newly admitted students have larger stipends than their longer-term peers, who typically support larger families. Female graduate students must withdraw from the University if they wish to remain more than six weeks with their child after childbirth; in some cases they may be required to make up work missed during this period, which is time that counts against their funded years at the Graduate School. Only very few grad­uate students can afford to insure their-spouses on the University’s health plan. Some spouses go uninsured for years, and incur large medical and financial risks while at Notre Dame. Wives fortunate to gain state insurance after a period of six unin­sured months lose comprehensive insur­ance upon pregnancy. In its poor quality of construction Notre Dame’s married student and family housing is inferior to other University residences. Though Notre Dame provides an admirable service to all in the community with its Early Childhood Development Centers, these are available to a limited number of children and after age two or later. Finally, in our current econom­ic crisis, an increasing number of graduate student families are turning to food stamps, WIC and other government-provided aids in order to barely meet domestic needs in the present, while anticipating a severely con­stricted job market and substantial student loan burdens in the future. 
Much of this stands in contrast to leading public and private universities that took a critical look at their own family supports. Noting particularly the lagging recruitment and promotion of women through the aca­demic ranks, universities like the University of California system, Princeton, Ohio State, Yale, Cornell, Duke, Stanford and others have formulated innovative policies to sup­port graduate student families specifically and especially encourage women to pursue academic careers. These include full semes­ters or several months off their clock with funding following childbirth for male and female students, limited part-time student options with at least partial funding, target­ed grants at childbirth and afterwards for family expenses and childcare, children’s centers for a wide range of ages, dedicated nursing or family rooms in academic build­ings and comprehensive plans to improve residence and health conditions for gradu­ate families. Some of these universities have already noted significant reductions in doc­toral student attrition and a substantial increase in satisfaction among graduate families and women particularly. 
While it would be well to consider the leaders of its peer group in this regard, Notre Dame has a rich tradition of its own to consider. The image of the Holy Family that adorns Blessed Fr. Moreau’s tomb is not only his vision for the Holy Cross reli­gious but a profound reflection on the Gospel. The Mother of God and her just spouse Joseph welcomed Jesus into the world with the example of their work, which provided for his basic needs in a manner that accorded with his own holy life. For graduate student families at Notre Dame, the work of study, teaching and research unfortunately means great risk to basic dimensions of the family: health, financial integrity, and the ability to wel­come children. By reflecting on the tradition of the Congregation of the Holy Cross regarding respect for life and support for the family as the foundation of society, Notre Dame could provide its graduate students and the academy with a clearer perspective: the well-being of families and women in particular are essential for the health and future of every university. 
Richard Klee 
doctoral student Malloy Hall Jan. 19 
Don’t waste paper. Submit a Letter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
Advice to Viewpoint contributors 
On April 5, 2004, I came out of the closet publicly in a Viewpoint letter. It was not long afterwards that an editor asked me to be a regular contributor and I became, to my knowledge, the newspaper’s first openly gay opinion columnist. 
On Jan. 13, 2010, The Observer published the infamous Viewpoint comic that — to put it politely — created a media Scheissesturm and which arguably stands in direct opposition to my message as a columnist. 
The assistant managing editor has since resigned and the comic itself has been canceled. Both of these are appropriate, because people must take responsibility for the consequences of their actions. But it takes more than anger to heal communities and I write in the hope that a deeper correction can now begin. 
I think being a young Viewpoint contributor — comic or otherwise 
— is an exercise in controlled hubris. You imagine yourself rid­ing the wave of public opinion, controlling the conversation, and influencing important people. Whether you admit it or not, you crave attention, you crave contro­versy and you crave admiration. Most of the time you don’t get any reaction from anyone, and nothing frustrates you more. 
All of these compromise you. Caught between your own vanity and a tight deadline you make mistakes. I once crushed a treas­ured friendship doing just that. Full of self-importance all your beautiful words are just emptiness in harmony, and you don’t even notice. 
Only a few times have I been given the grace to see what simple words written without guile and with utter honesty can do. Those rare columns, I can honestly say, had a real influence for good that was beyond anything I imagined and beyond anything I was trying to achieve. It makes me shiver even now. I realize now that these were, without exception, the columns that I wrote for the sake of love. 
This is what we — you, me, this paper, the entire University — are supposed to be. This is what The Observer can be again, if it and all the people who care for it strive to understand fundamentally why this happened and how they must be different to prevent it from happening again. For the sake of the good we can do. 
Lance David Gallop 
alum Class of 2005 Jan. 18 
Dissolution of Economics and Policy Studies 
In The Observer article “Branch of econ dept. to be dissolved,” Jan. 19 on the impending dissolution of the Department of Economics and Policy Studies I read that [Dean] “McGreevy said the proposed changes would help faculty mem­bers currently in Economics and Policy Studies participate in eco­nomic conversations.” 
That prospect is not credible in light of the performance of Dean McGreevy and Dean Roche before him in presiding over the quite remarkable situation in which members of the Department of Economics and Policy Studies (ECOP) have been unable to simply get information on public semi­nars and internal workshops offered by the Department of Economics and Econometrics (ECOE). 
I will be retiring at the end of this semester and am not affected by the impending changes; but for the last few years of my career I have engaged in futile efforts to maintain contacts with colleagues in ECOE. I would have very much liked to take advantage of the many speakers they have brought in; but despite appeals to a coordi­nator of their speakers series, to Dean Roche and Dean McGreevy and to ECOE chairperson Richard Jensen, I have been unable to access sufficient information on their seminars and workshops. 
Before he left office in June of 2008 Dean Roche replied to one of my protestations in an e-mail: “Apparently ECOE lists their semi­nars on their Web site (I am told that the first two for the fall are listed there) and does not use a listserv; but I have asked that the listserv for the internal brown bag workshops include interested per­sons from ECOP.” 
It seems remarkable that a dean of a college would have to make such a request of one of his departments; but it is even more remarkable that apparently such a request would simply be denied. 
Certainly there has been no list­serv; and I invite interested read­ers to visit ECOE’s Web site to see the extent of information dis­played there. 
I have pursued the issue repeat­edly with Dean McGreevy, once heatedly in a reaction to a boast in The Observer last fall that “we are trying to create the best economic conversation we can have at Notre Dame.” Although he has not been forthcoming in explaining what is going on, he has apparently taken the stand that he cannot or will not do anything about it — other than dissolve ECOP. That members of ECOP, several of whom have taught economics in the College of Arts and Letters for over 40 years, cannot get information on upcom­ing seminars and workshops — in economics, in the College of Arts and Letters — strikes me as an egregious repudiation of academic civility and does not bode well for my colleagues who carry on. 
James J. Rakowski 
associate professor Economics and Policy Studies Jan. 19 

The Observer 
Scene
page 12 Wednesday, January 20, 2010 

By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Beautifully crafted, fashion designer-turned-movie director Tom Ford’s “A Single Man,” based on the novel of the same name by Christopher Isherwood and star­ring Colin Firth, is a stunning story and a tribute to Ford’s eye as a director. The film features Firth as George, an English professor living in 1962 Los Angeles, going through one single day, Nov. 30. George has recently suffered the loss of his partner of 16 years, Jim (“Leap Year’s” Matthew Goode), in a car accident and plans to kill himself on this day. What follows is a haunting story of one man, searching for meaning and purpose through a few chance encounters, faced with the ultimate decision: whether to live or die. 
The plot itself seems a little one-note, with George remembering his past with Jim in everything he sees, but Firth delivers the performance of a lifetime. His every expression, particularly his eyes, which Ford so stunningly captures, are saturated with the deepest levels of emotion, truly capturing one man’s utter despair. His performance is subtle and nuanced, leav­ing the film more heartbreaking than if it had been left in the hands of a less capable actor. His almost guaran­teed Oscar nomination is well deserved, to say the least. 
A compelling cast of characters stand behind George to provide real emotional depth to the film. Although only ever seen in flashbacks, Goode is charming and beguiling as Jim, really capturing the profundity of his relationship with George. As the audience is given more and more glimpses into the life they once had together, his death becomes all the more heartbreak­ing. Julianne Moore gives a staggering performance as Charley, George’s aged-socialite best friend, dealing with loneliness after yet another divorce. She is depressing and pitiable, but never loathsome, and proves to be a wake-up call of sorts for the confused George. Nicholas Hoult, that little kid from “About a Boy,” puts on a convincing American accent to play one of George’s young students. He takes on his shoulders the weight of, perhaps, the most important of George’s emotional encounters, and while their relationship is somewhat predictable, it somehow moves beyond mere superficiality. The cast, rounded out by some quick cameos from the likes of Ginnifer Goodwin (“Big Love”) and Lee Pace (“Pushing Daisies”), creates an overall impressive ensemble. 

This ensemble, and Firth in particular, is really what holds the film together. The plot, while certainly entic­ing, seems slow and repetitive at times. Although each moment pushes George in one direction or another, the quietness of the story seems to make the movie trudge along a little too slowly. 
Even if the overall plot of the film is flawed, though, Ford’s distinctive vision is captivating. Each shot is masterfully crafted, from the cinematography to the costumes, and the overall ambience of the film is really one of its greatest accomplishments. Ford proves to be as stylish with his films as he is with his clothes. He hones in on the tiniest details of a shot with the cam­era, creating a more intimate type of film. And, not sur­prisingly, his costuming can be both expressive and shocking, even simultaneously. Accompanied by a 
A Single Man 
Directed By: Tom Ford Starring: Colin Firth, Julianne Moore, Matthew Goode, Nicholas Hoult 

beautiful score from composer Abel Korzeniowski, “A Single Man” is, at the least, truly stunning. 
In the end, though, it is Firth’s superb performance that holds “A Single Man” together, and he is deserving of all the good buzz he has gotten. It’s about time this talented actor was recognized. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
seemingly gone on without an end in sight for many a month now, by trashing the film, because frankly, I have a nice spot reserved for it in this year’s top 10 list. That being said, and I don’t think that this should shock or even so much as surprise anyone, “Avatar” is no “Titanic.” Yes, “Avatar” is “epic” in scale and in a purely visual sense, but at the same time, the word “epic” and all of the connotations it car­ries is something I’m unwilling to attach to this film. 
Light years away from Earth, the film is set on Pandora, a life-harboring plan­et where an all-powerful corpora­tion is mining an extremely valuable 
By SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Writer 
I could gush over the special effects and write all starry-eyed about the mesmeriz­ing world that is James Cameron’s stun­ningly rendered, decade-in-the-making brainchild, “Avatar.” I could do that and almost coincidentally forget all about the film’s overly clichéd plot, rather overlong runtime and amateurishly blatant attempt at social commentary. But I won’t. 
Because while Cameron’s latest epic is groundbreaking in an aesthetic sense, it falls short of the lofty bar it sets for itself in nearly every other way. I’m not going to rain on the “Avatar” parade, which has mineral that is being used as the solution to Earth’s energy crisis. For numerous reasons, the company has created the Avatar program, where genetically engi­neered copies of the natives are used as surrogates for human scientists and mili­tary men alike. Jake Sully, a once dedicat­ed marine bound to a wheelchair for life, is sent with a team of scientists and secretly tasked with the all-important mis­sion of infiltrating the native Na’vi and gaining their trust so that the company can move in and exploit the land for the abundance of minerals located right on the native’s land. Able to not only gain their trust but also become one of the Na’vi, Jake collaborates with the evil, shoot-first-ask-questions-later military, only to later grow an affection and close attachment to the Na’vi and the land. Faced with the decision of protecting the interests of his employer and the only thing he has ever known, the military, and siding with the helpless Na’vi and his new­found love, Neytiri, the princess of the Na’vi, Jake follows his heart and decides to fight against the tyranny of the compa­ny and side with the Na’vi. 
That’s the basic summary, so sitting in the theater, 3-D glasses on, and popcorn at hand, I couldn’t for the life of me shrug off the feeling that I had seen “Avatar” before — or at least that I had seen “Avatar’s” plotline before. That’s because “Avatar” is, and I know that some will cringe and feel umbrage when reading this, a generic film if there ever was one. It’s a cliché love story, as are about 90 percent of love stories, and the only rea­son why that stands out here is because it’s Cameron at the helm of this project, and as the director of “Titanic,” he is and rightfully should be held up to a higher standard than most directors. It’s a shame too, because the single greatest flaw hold­ing back “Avatar” from being a truly amazing film is the unavoid­
able fact that anyone with 
10 brain cells can map out 
the film’s story from begin­
ning to end 30 seconds into 
the previews. Cameron’s name being 
inescapably attached to the 
film as though it’s a part of 
the title, one can’t help to 
compare “Avatar,” his latest 
film, to “Titanic,” his great­
est film. Both being love sto­
ries with enormous budgets 
that have achieved not only 
commercial but critical suc­
cess, the two films are 
inherently similar but 
inevitably different. That dif­
ference being that for all of 
“Avatar’s” flash and special 
effects, “Titanic” and all of it’s passionate­
ly shot, and unforgettable still images such as the hitting of the iceberg and most famously, the image of Rose at the head of the ship, arms wide open, is what makes “Titanic” superior to “Avatar” even in an aesthetic sense. 
And then there’s the failure that is “Avatar’s” pitiful attempt at saying, “Hey everybody, we exploit not only other cul­tures but the environment for our own betterment, and that’s bad.” Actually, add an exclamation point or maybe five after that quote, and then repeat it about 10 times, wait a few minutes, and then start the process all over again and you’ll have “Avatar” minus the special effects and the cast. Only — and really try to do this — try to make it subtle as best you can, but at the same time, subconsciously be as obvi­ous and repetitive about it as possible. Then you’ll truly be “Avatar” as a social commentary. 
So for every one of the film’s successes that inspires ogling and jaw-dropping, there are about five failures that have the exact opposite effect. Usually, that makes for a terrible film, but in the rare case that is “Avatar,” what’s left is still an attractive experience at the movies that is what very few films are: memorable. 

Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 
SOFIA HURBE | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scene
Wednesday, January 20, 2010 page 13 
most any typical Hollywood char­acter, and added to that is a flair for trauma and drama that seems to tie together all of the themes mined in this film. Beyond anything directly in the film, though, lies the “Mecushla” in Eastwood’s knockout most significant By SHANE STEINBERG of a boxing flick. 25. The Death of Mr. Lazarescu result of Scene Writer (2005) “Amores 
28. City of God (2002) We know the ending as the begin-Perros,” which is 
Over the five-day week, The Pulse-pounding and styled like ning credits roll, but Cristi Puiu’s the launching of Observer will count down all of the none other, Brazil’s answer to “The arresting docudrama of an every-several success-movies that made us laugh, cry, Godfather” is uneven but packs man with a simple medical problem ful careers, and reflect and sit on the edge of our enough visceral power and tension-who dies because of a healthcare a sort of revolu­seats — all of the best films of the filled suspense to make it very close system wrought with inefficiency tion in Mexican decade. These 50 films all share an to exceptional. The acting is raw and downright stupidity is one of the f i l m m a k i n g , essence of filmmaking genius that and believable, and the action is most affecting films of the decade. A which has come were exceptional amongst the thou-shot with heart-stopping pacing, but truly “real” film in every sense of the quite a ways sands of films released in the last 10 the real gem here is no individual word, “The Death of Mr. since 2000. years, and some of them will one character, but rather the slums of Lazarescu,” coupled with “4 day be viewed as “classics” in film Rio de Janiero itself. Such a lawless Months, 3 Weeks, 2 Days,” has sig-22. The history. So here they are, the best land where money and drugs rule naled a Renaissance in Romanian Assassination films of the decade. all and the only hand of redemption filmmaking. of Jesse James 
involves a bullet in the head, and by the Coward 
30. Y Tu Mamá También (2001) such a portrayal at that. Stunning — 24. Brick (2005) Robert Ford 
The sometimes overrated but flawed in ways, yes — but stunning. Writer/director Rian Johnson’s (2007) undeniably talented Alfonso Cuaron neo-noir set in a high school follows The western genre experienced a 21. Requiem for a Dream sends two perverted, naïve, rich 27. Wall-E (2008) all the rules of a classic detective small rebirth in 2007, and “The (2000) teenage boys and a soon-to-be-mar-Very little dialogue, and a robot thriller … other than the fact that Assassination of Jesse James” rep-You probably don’t know who ried woman they lust after on a life-with feelings as the main character? the cast is made up of lunch-period-resented the best the genre had to Darren Aronofsky is, and what a changing trip in this homage to self-No problem. This searing love poem having, grade-lusting, extra-curricu-offer since 1992’s “Unforgiven.” shame, because this talent deserves 
discovery. It’s passionate — a glis-straight from the masterminds at lar-participating high schoolers. Casey Affleck is nothing short of to be up there with the best of them, tening tribute to life that showcases Pixar studios is so heartfelt that its This is truly original and inventive astounding as the insignificant gun-even as his career is only about 10 just that, life in all of its emotional title character has probably become stuff, and it plays just as well as, if slinger who killed the immortal out-years old. “Requiem” represents his prowess, the ups and the downs, Pixar’s most beloved character, not better than, anything of its kind law that was Jesse James. And way of saying “I’ve got some flashy and the things we learn about our-which is saying a lot. This is one of made in the hay-day of detective Brad Pitt, in a contemplative, intri-tricks and I’m about to give you a 
selves along the way. those rare films that even the cold-thrillers. That’s because at the end cate portrayal of Jesse James, heaping taste of them.” What est of hearts can’t keep from cheer-credits, what “Brick” is is an incred-shines in this winding but deliber-results is an audacious, horrifying, 
29. Million Dollar Baby (2004) ing for. ibly stylized, supremely acted and ately paced tragedy waiting to experimental and entirely amazing 
Clint Eastwood has extended an brilliantly toned thriller that is unfold. The tale is not his, though, drug of a film about drugs and already exceptional acting career 26. Garden State (2004) unveiled with a keen detective’s eye. as Robert Ford (Affleck) is the real dreams of a better life, and the with a stint as a director, and he has What actor/writer/director Zach intrigue, and it’s only after he kills deadly combination of mixing the become one of Hollywood’s finest at Braff created with 2004’s “Garden 23. Amores Perros (2000) Jesse that we truly see a man who two. Using his camera in ways that. “Million Dollar Baby” was a State” was an honest, endearing, The duo of director Alejandro history has altogether forgotten — a never dreamt of before he makes us simple yet affecting underdog tale hilarious romantic comedy that Gonzalez Inarritu and writer man just wanting his 15 minutes, feel the free-fall that is taking hard that deserved every bit of the acco-plays like a love story, but is actually Guillermo Arriaga deliver an incred-who took them, until they destroyed drugs, becoming an addict, and lades that it received. It’s no master-just as much about being in that ibly stylized web of three stories in a him. It’s in those last 20 minutes of then resting one’s entire self on a piece, but a small gem headlined by state of life where you don’t know free-falling tale of vengeance, greed, the film where he unfolds, and it’s in hope that is hopeless. three incredible actors turning in who you are, what you want to do passion and broken dreams. The that window of time when some of incredibly measured roles, with with yourself, and life just feels so characters are actually intriguing the most poetic, most mesmerizing Contact Shane Steinberg at Hilary Swank being the real numb. human beings who are distinct from filmmaking I’ve ever seen occurs. ssteinb2@nd.edu 



By BRANDY CERNE 
Scene Writer 
Due to the recent troubles in the economy, many people turn to movies as a form of escape from their problems. Travels to far-off lands, action-packed sequences and passionate romances fill the screen, taking the audience on a journey out of their lives. 
“Up in the Air” does not have any of those things, but it’s all the better for that. Lately, few films have attempted to capture the feeling of life in America today. Writer and director Jason Reitman (“Juno,” “Thank You for Smoking”) successfully presents a timely portrait of America that connects with every member of its audi­ence. 
Ryan Bingham (George Clooney) makes a living by fir­ing people. His company employs corporate downsizing experts, who are then hired by other companies who are incapable of performing their own large lay-offs. Ryan spends most of his year flying across the United States with barely any personal relationships. He is not close to his family, seems to have no friends and is disinterested in settling down with a significant other. The odd thing is, he loves his lifestyle. Ryan even gives motivational talks while on the road about getting rid of personal baggage like relationships and possessions. 
Ryan’s lifestyle is forced to change when a young upstart, Natalie (Anna Kendrick), joins his company and presents a plan to cut costs by taking all representatives off the road permanently. She shadows Ryan for a few months to gain experience, and both learn important les­sons from each other. Along the way, Ryan starts a casual relationship with a fellow frequent-flyer (Vera Farmiga), who is basically a female version of himself. 
With what sounds like a depressing topic, Reitman seamlessly makes “Up in the Air” equal parts comedy, drama and romance. There are many comedic moments, especially when Ryan tries to adapt to Natalie’s presence on the road. Natalie and Ryan have many clashing view­points and are at different stages in their life, which leads to some very interesting and funny interactions. 
Along with the comedy, there are poignant moments. Most of the people fired in the film are actual people who were recently laid off. Reitman made a smart decision, as this brings true emotion and gravitas to the film that could not have been portrayed nearly as well by actors. Everyone knows how hard it is to be let go, either through personal experience or through friends and fam­ily members. Nothing feels overdone or phony in the film, but perfectly real and representative of the experience of many Americans at this time. 
Adding to this is the flawless acting by the main charac­ters. Clooney shares many characteristics with Bingham, from his charisma to his bachelor lifestyle. And face it, if you had to be fired, you would want George Clooney to do it. Farmiga does an excellent job as the sultry woman Ryan starts to fall for, even though it is against his philos­ophy. But the most exciting presence in “Up in the Air” is Kendrick, a newcomer whose other major work is in the “Twilight” series. Kendrick plays Natalie as uptight, a bit annoying, but in the end charming, altogether forming a totally believable character. All three deserve the Oscar nominations they will probably get. 
“Up in the Air” presents a lasting message of the importance of human connection. It is a classic film that encompasses all the joy, sadness, thoughts, feelings, ups and downs of living in America at this time. Years from now, this film will still hold up and will give viewers an accurate impression of life as we know it today. 

Contact Brandy Cerne at bcerne1@nd.edu 
Observer Graphic I SOFIA HURBE 
page 14 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, January 20. 2010 
NHL 
Senators top Blackhawks in fourth straight win 
Two goals by Kovalchuk help Thrashers beat Maple Leafs 4-3; Crosby, Malkin lead Penguins over Islanders 6-4 
Blackhawks captain Thrashers 4, Maple Leafs 3
Associated Press 
Jonathan Toews was in the Ilya Kovalchuk scored two 
OTTAWA — Peter Regin penalty box. goals, giving him 30 for the had a goal and an assist and Chicago, which entered season, and the Atlanta Brian Elliott made 29 saves tied with the Sharks for the Thrashers beat Toronto on to lead the Ottawa Senators league lead in short-handed Tuesday night to extend the to their fourth straight win, goals, became the first team Maple Leafs’ road woes. a 4-1 victory over the to reach eight this season. The Thrashers scored four Chicago Blackhawks on Regin, who assisted on straight goals after Alexei Tuesday night. Shannon ’s goal 12:31 in, Ponikarovsky ’s two first -
Regin restored Ottawa ’s restored Ottawa’s two-goal period goals in a span of 32 two -goal lead late in the margin when he drove the seconds. second when he beat right side and went around Rich Peverley ’s power­Chicago’s Cristobal Huet on the back of the net to put a play goal at 1:58 of the a wraparound after Zack backhand into an open left third period broke a 2-2 tie. Smith and Ryan Shannon side with 1:55 left in the Kovalchuk ’s second goal scored in the first to put the second. gave Atlanta a 4-2 lead 4:20 Senators up 2-0. Elliott came up with a big into the third period. 
Mike Fisher scored a stop on Patrick Kane’s shot Toronto’s Niklas Hagman power-play goal 16:45 into off a rebound with just over scored 1:23 later, but the third to seal the win and 4 minutes remaining in the Ondrej Pavelec, who extend Ottawa’s streak. third. Elliott survived a stopped 37 shots, held on 
Marian Hossa scored his close call earlier in the third for his third win in his past third short-handed goal of when he recovered to make four starts. the season earlier in the a sprawling stick save on Vesa Toskala stopped 28 second for the Blackhawks, Hossa just over 6 minutes shots in his first regulation who ended a three -game into the third after he mis-loss in nine career games winning streak. played a puck behind his against Atlanta. 
Chicago, which held a 30-net. Kovalchuk and Evander 18 advantage in shots, Hossa had a wide open net Kane had second -period entered tied with San Jose staring at him when Elliott goals for Atlanta. for No. 1 overall in the NHL inadvertently directed a Toronto has allowed 13 Trent Hunter and Richard he has only one fewer than with 72 points after begin-dump-in toward his vacated goals in the first three Park scored in the third the 33 he scored last sea­ning a season -high eight -crease. The Senators’ goalie games of its five-game road period as the Islanders son. game trip with wins in lunged and stuck out his trip. It leads the league came back from deficits of Crosby beat Dwayne Columbus and Detroit over stick to deny Hossa’s shot. with 177 goals allowed. 3-0 and 4-1 to tie it, but Roloson to score even ­the weekend. Smith scored his second The Maple Leafs have won Kyle Okposo drew a tripping strength goals that made it 
Huet stopped 14 shots. goal in three games at 6:51 only two of their last 12 penalty midway through the 1-0 late in the first and 4-1 
Hossa, who spent his first of the first. road games, including their period that led to Malkin’s in third and he also set up seven seasons with Ottawa, Shannon made it 2-0 at 4-3 win at Nashville on power-play goal that made Malkin ’s two power-goals drove in on a breakaway 12:31 when he redirected Monday night. it 5-4. Earlier, Okposo failed and empty-net goal and Bill and sent a slap shot past Regin’s centering pass from Ponikarovsky continued on a penalty shot and could-Guerin’s power-play goal. Elliott for his 13th goal 6:05 the left side beyond Huet for his history of strong play n’t score twice on break -Penguins forward Pascal into the second while his fifth goal. against the Thrashers. He aways, all in a span of 1:34 Dupuis left the ice with a 
had two goals and an assist in the second period. towel held to his face after in Toronto’s 5-2 home win Malkin ’s go -ahead goal being rammed into the over the Thrashers on Dec. was the third in five boards by Andy Sutton with 
7. He has 15 goals — more attempts by Pittsburgh on a 2:55 remaining. Sutton drew than against any other team power play that began the a game misconduct. Dupuis 
— in 21 career games night as the NHL’s second was on the ice for several against Atlanta. worst. Malkin also scored minutes after striking the 
Kovalchuk, who had a into an empty net with 29.6 rear boards face-first before streak of goals in three seconds remaining, result-getting up and walking to straight games end with ing in a brief delay as hun-the Penguins ’ dressing Monday night’s 1-0 loss at dreds of hats and giveaway room. Florida, fired a shot from bags that were handed out Penguins backup goal ­beyond the left circle past to the crowd littered the ice. tender Brent Johnson, out Toskala for the Thrashers’ It was the first time in for five games with an first goal 2:43 into the sec-their careers that Crosby, undisclosed injury that ond period. His third-period the 2007 NHL scoring cham-forced the Penguins to use goal was deflected into the pion, and Malkin, last sea-an amateur goaltender dur­net off Toskala’s pads. son’s champion, each scored ing their 6-2 loss Saturday 
Garnet Exelby, who played multiple goals in the same at Vancouver, made 31 for Atlanta from 2002-09, game. Malkin has four goals saves during a sometimes made his return to Philips in two games after going 11 shaky performance. Arena with the Maple Leafs. consecutive games without a The Islanders, playing 
goal following his last previ-their second game in as Penguins 6, Islanders 4 ous three -goal game Dec. many days after beating the 
Evgeni Malkin broke out of 23, during an 8-2 victory Devils 4-0 with Rick a slump with three goals over Ottawa. DiPietro in goal on Monday, and Sidney Crosby scored Crosby ’s six points looked sluggish and a step twice while figuring in every matched his career high and slow as the Penguins twice Pittsburgh goal as the topped his previous season opened three-goal leads in Penguins recovered after high of five points Nov. 28 the second period. But the blowing a three-goal lead to against the Rangers. He has Isles ’ fatigue apparently beat the Islanders on nine multiple goal games wore off after Freddy Tuesday, ending New York’s this season — three in seven Meyer’s first goal of the sea-four-game winning streak. games — and, with 32 goals, son started their comeback. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Off-Campus housing 2010-2011, If you or someone you care about It's nine o'clock on a Saturday Irish Crossings, has been sexually assaulted, we The regular crowd shuffles in FOR RENT Dublin Village 2,3,4 bedrooms still WANTED WANTED can help. There's an old man sitting next to 
available. me HOUSE FOR RENT Business Major wanted for Campus UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do For more information, visit Notre Makin' love to his tonic and gin $500/PERSON Furnished and UnFurnished. Manager ar ND. not go it alone. Notre Dame has Dame's website: He says, "Son, can you play me a 2 FULL BATHS many resources in place to assist memory 4 BDRM Hurry only a few left. You will design a marketing plan, you. http.csap.nd.edu I'm not really sure how it goes **WALK TO ND** hire workers, and implement the If you or someone you love needs ——————————————— But it's sad and it's sweet and I 54650 WILLIS Best living, safety, Value. plan. confidential support or assistance, CONSIDERING ADOPTION? knew it complete 
CES please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 ND ALUMS hoping to adopt. When I wore a younger man's 
Property Great resume builder opportunity. or Ann Firth at 1-2685. clothes." CALL 574-277-8471 Management, Salary +commission. Contact: For more information, visit ND's Please visit our website ——————————————— Bettyjo@BoxMyDorm.com 317-web site: http://www. la la la, di da da gradrentals.viewwork.com 574-968-0112 679-6082 http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu pauldiana-adoptionprofile.net. La la, di di da da dum ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Wednesday, January 20, 2010 
page 15 
NCAA Men’s Basketball Division I AP Poll 
team previous 
1 Texas 1 2 Kentucky 2 3 Kansas 3 4 Villanova 6 5 Syracuse 5 6 Michigan State 7 7 Duke 8 8 Tennessee 9 9 Pittsburgh 16 10 Kansas State 13 11 West Virginia 10 12 Georgetown 11 13 Purdue 6 14 BYU 18 15 Gonzaga 17 16 Temple 19 17 Clemson 24 18 Wisconsin 13 19 Georgia Tech 20 20 Northern Iowa NR 21 Ohio State NR 22 Mississippi 21 23 Mississippi State NR 24 North Carolina 12 25 Baylor 22 
NCAA Women’s Basketball Division I AP Poll 
team  previous  
1  Connecticut  1  
2  Stanford  2  
3  Tennessee  4  
4  NOTRE DAME  3  
5  Ohio State  5  
6  Duke  7  
7  Nebraska  11  
8  Georgia  6  
9  Texas A&M  8  
10  Baylor  9  
11  Xavier  14  
12  Oklahoma State  15  
13  Oklahoma  13  
14  North Carolina  10  
15  Florida State  16  
16  West Virginia  18  
17  Green Bay  17  
18  LSU  12  
19  Georgetown  24  
20  Texas  19  
21  Vanderbilt  NR  
22  Georgia Tech  21  
23  TCU  22  
24  Vermont  NR  
25  Virginia  23  



around the dial 
College Basketball 
Wake Forest at North Carolina 7 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 
Jazz at Spurs 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

Jim Brown wants LeBron to stay put 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND — The most famous football player in Cleveland history hopes the city’s most celebrated basketball star stays put. 
Browns Hall of Fame running back Jim Brown said Tuesday night that he hopes LeBron James remains with the Cavaliers. 
James, the NBA’s reign­ing MVP, can leave Cleveland as a free agent after this season. He has never indicated he will sign elsewhere, but specu­lation has centered on him signing in a new, long­term contract in a larger market. 
Brown, who played his entire NFL career in Cleveland, would like to see James do the same. 
“Looking at the fact that it is a business, I put that first,” Brown said. “But having said that, I would love to see him be here. I think it’s a terrific mar­riage. He does so much for this city and I think he has an owner (Dan Gilbert) that tries to do everything he can. When you have an owner who is trying to do the best he can do and a player, it’s a terrific set of circumstances. But the business is the business.” 
James and Brown met brought together as part of the Cavaliers’ celebration of black heritage month. Brown was honored dur­ing halftime ceremonies along with former Ohio State football star Cris Carter, Buckeyes basket­ball great Jim Jackson and former Cleveland Indians pitcher Jim “Mudcat” Grant. 
with  the  media  before  
Tuesday  night’s  game  
against  the  Toronto  
Raptors.  They  were  

James seemed genuinely awed to be in Brown’s company. 
“Anytime you can be mentioned with a great and be able to continue the legacy he built here in Cleveland, is humbling for me,” James said. “We both know how much the fans love sports and I have had to learn to keep the momentum going after he passed the torch.” 
Brown praised James for helping give opportunities to others and for making the most of the chances he has received. 
“What Dr. King worked for was to give young men like him an opportunity and when you get an opportunity you can’t squander that,” Brown said. “You see that so much in the league now, young men that have great opportunities to make a lot of money and they squan­der it. But this young man hasn’t done that. 
“Although he’s a young man, he’s way beyond his age.” 
IN BRIEF 
Indians and LHP Rafael Perez avoid arbitration 
CLEVELAND — The Cleveland Indians kept their arbitration streak intact by coming to terms with reliever Rafael Perez on a $795,000 deal. 
The club was scheduled to exchange salary figures Tuesday with Perez, the only player on Cleveland’s roster eligible for arbi­tration. The Indians have not gone to arbitration since 1991. 
Perez, who can earn another $25,000 with an All-Star appear­ance, was a major disappointment last season. The left-hander went 4-3 with a 7.31 ERA in 48 innings with Cleveland and was twice sent down to the minor leagues. 
The Indians are counting on him to regain the form that made him one of the AL’s premier setup men. In 2008, he was Cleveland’s most reli­able reliever and in 2007 he had a 
1.78 ERA in 44 appearances. 
Royals reach deals with Gordon and Tejeda 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. — Third base­man Alex Gordon and right-hander Robinson Tejeda bypassed arbitration, agreeing Tuesday to one-year con­tracts with the Kansas City Royals. 
Gordon gets $1.15 million after making $457,000 last season. 
He was the second pick in the 2005 amateur draft and was once thought of as the cornerstone of the team’s future. But his career has been slow to develop and he missed 79 games last year after undergoing hip sur­gery. He wound up batting .232 with six home runs and 22 RBIs in 49 games. 
Tejeda got a raise from $437,000 to $950,000. He can earn another $50,000 in performance bonuses: $25,000 each for reaching 23 and starts. 
Pitching out of the bullpen most of the year, Tejeda was 4-2 with a 3.54 ERA in 35 games last season. 
Jones says Phillips will be back next year 
ARLINGTON, Texas. — Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones is giving every indica­tion that he is picking up coach Wade Phillips’ contract option for the 2010 sea­son, and likely keeping him longer. 
“We don’t have any funny business here guys. There’s nothing funny going on here, at all,” Jones said Tuesday. “We just want to do this when we both can do it and both get it stated the way we want to state it.” 
Standing on the field where next sea­son’s Super Bowl will be played, after a spectacular news conference announcing a March 13 boxing match between Manny Pacquiao and Joshua Clottey at Cowboys Stadium, Jones said that he had a “good visit” with Phillips on Monday. 
As for Phillips’ coming back for his fourth season, and maybe more after that, Jones said he would answer all those questions at a season wrapup news conference later in the week with “both him and me there.” 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday. January 20, 2010 
MLB 
Bengie Molina returns to San Fransisco Giants 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — In an unex­pected twist, Bengie Molina is coming back to the San Francisco Giants. The free-agent catcher reached a preliminary agreement with the Giants on a one-year con­tract, a person with knowledge of the negotiations told The Associated Press on Tuesday. The person spoke on condition of anonymity because the agreement was pending a physical and had not been completed. 
It’s a surprising move for both sides, because Molina had been negotiating a deal with the New York Mets only days ago. The Mets offered one year with a vesting option, but Molina wanted two years guaranteed. He had hoped to land a three-year contract this offseason, and Giants general manager Brian Sabean had said the veteran catcher wouldn’t return. 
“That ship has sailed,” Sabean said at the winter meetings last month. 
KPIX TV in San Francisco first reported Molina’s deal. 
The Giants also agreed Tuesday to a $2.1 million contract with left-hander Jonathan Sanchez, avoid­ing arbitration. Sanchez threw a no-hitter on July 10. 
San Francisco has two players in salary arbitration: ace Tim Lincecum and closer Brian Wilson. Lincecum asked for a record $13 million after winning the past two NL Cy Young awards, while the Giants countered with an $8 mil­lion offer. Wilson asked for $4.875 million, while the Giants countered with a $4 million offer. 
While Molina appeared set to join the Mets, the Giants came back into the picture only recently. 
Molina said late in the 2009 sea­son that he would like to stay in San Francisco if shown he was wanted. Right away, Sabean ruled out giving Molina more than a one-year deal with Buster Posey set to be the club’s catcher of the future. 
The 35-year-old Molina batted .265 with a career-high 20 home runs to go with 80 RBIs last season as the cleanup hitter in his third year with the Giants and 12th in the big leagues. 
Molina’s previous $16 million, three-year contract ended after last season and he became a free agent. He also said he would like to retire as a Giant. 
San Francisco was never pre­pared to make such a commitment considering Molina’s age and health concerns. The Giants were ready to move forward with Posey, the fifth overall pick in the 2008 draft, if no other opportunity emerged. Yet Sabean had said this winter he didn’t think Posey was ready to be a full-time major league catcher and would prefer he start the season with Triple-A Fresno to gain more experience. 
NFL 
Gailey takes over Buffalo 
Associated Press 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. — Chan Gailey’s second chance to prove himself as an NFL head coach comes with plen­ty of challenges. 
The Buffalo Bills team he’s taking over hasn’t made the playoffs in a decade and its fans have been clamoring for Bill Cowher during a coach­ing search that seemed to take forever. 
Instead of landing one of the big-name coaches with loaded resumes such as Cowher or Mike Shanahan, Gailey — who coached the Dallas Cowboys for two less-than -inspiring seasons — was introduced Tuesday as the 15th head coach in Bills history — and fifth in 10 years. 
“I can’t say anything to change anybody’s mind. All I can do is go try to help us win football games,” Gailey said. “We win football games, everybody’s minds will be changed, right?” 
Gailey was hired by first-time general manager Buddy Nix, ending a two -month search to replace Dick Jauron, who was fired in November. He takes over a Bills team coming off its fifth straight losing season follow­ing a 6-10 finish, and in the midst of a 10-year playoff drought that is tied with Detroit as the longest active streak in the NFL. 
“I’ve been around enough winning programs ... that when I walk on the field I expect to win. I don’t just hope to win,” Gailey said. “But the bottom line is we’ve got to do it on the field” 
Gailey has spent 15 of his 35 years of coaching in the NFL. In his two years coach­ing the Dallas Cowboys, he went 18-14 and led the team to consecutive playoff appearances — both losses. He was dismissed after the 1999 season, and Cowboys 
owner Jerry Jones has acknowledged his mistake in firing Gailey. 
For Nix, it was Gailey’s extensive experience that impressed him and met most of the criteria the GM set out when he took over the search two weeks ago. 
Nix was eager to find someone with previous head-coaching experience and who had an offensive background. 
“Without any doubt in my mind, we got the best quali­fied guy, a guy that was on the list early,” Nix said. “We got the right guy for us. I’ve got full confidence in him to answer your question.” 
Gailey also got a big vote of support from Jones in Dallas. The Cowboys owner on Tuesday not only congratu­lated Gailey upon his return to the NFL head coaching ranks, but Jones also reiter­ated that he still regrets fir­ing Gailey. 
“I’m proud for Chan Gailey,” Jones said. “I’m glad to see him have the opportu­nity to get back as head coach in the NFL. He did an outstanding job at Georgia Tech. He’s really a top coach and will do a great job.” 
Gailey has been out of foot­ball since he was removed as the Chiefs’ offensive coordi­nator in August, two weeks before the season opener. He was entering his second sea­son with Kansas City after a six-year stretch as Georgia Tech’s coach, during which he went 44-33 before being fired in 2007. 
Nix is already being sec­ond-guessed for how he con­ducted the coaching search, during which Jets offensive coordinator Brian Schottenheimer turned down the Bills request for an inter­view last week. And it was a search that featured several prominent candidates who had raised fan expectations. 
The Bills spoke to Cowher in a bid to lure the former Steelers coach out of his career in broadcasting. Fans raised $1,125 to rent a bill­board in Buffalo last week urging team owner Ralph Wilson to hire Cowher. The team also interviewed former Broncos coach Shanahan, who instead chose to coach the Washington Redskins. 

Wednesday, January 20, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
NBA 
Pacers fall to Heat 118-83 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — Of the 119 play­ers on the NBA’s 3-point accuracy chart this season, the Indiana Pacers might be surprised to learn who ranked next-to-last. 
Dwyane Wade might not stay there much longer. 
Only a 27 percent shooter from long range, Wade made his first four attempts from beyond the arc — including one that counted after goal-tending, of all things — and scored a game-high 32 points as the Heat easily beat the Pacers 113-83 on Tuesday night. 
“I’ve been feeling good about my shot lately,” said Wade, who topped the 11,000-point mark for his career on a second-quarter layup. “I think my first shot was a 3, which I normally try not to do. But I was in rhythm, shot it, hit it and after that the confidence was up.” 
Wade shot 12 of 20 for the game and scored 18 of his points in the first quarter for the Heat (21-19), who ensured they would reach the midpoint of their season Wednesday in Charlotte with a winning record. Michael Beasley scored 21 for Miami, which led 36-19 after one quarter and by 23 at one point in the opening half. 
Brandon Rush scored 17 for the Pacers, who are 4-17 on the road and 0-3 against the Heat this season. The Pacers lost by 13 on their home floor Oct. 30, and now have lost in Miami by 34 and 30 points over the past month. 
“They made every shot in the first half and we didn’t make any,” Pacers coach Jim O’Brien said. “Our best shooters aren’t shooting the ball very well right now and their best shooters knocked our eyes out.” 
Troy Murphy had 11 points and 12 rebounds, but was just 3 of 11 from the floor. Danny Granger had only eight points on a historically bad shooting night for him, 2 for 16. According to STATS LLC, of the 217 games in his career with at least 10 shot attempts, Granger shot worse in only one — 2 for 17 at Philadelphia on April 10, 2007. 
“We had open looks,” Granger said. “They just did-n’t go down.” 
Jermaine O’Neal added 10 for the Heat, who rested most of their starters for the entire fourth quarter and will reach the midpoint of their season Wednesday at surging Charlotte. 
This one was all Miami from the outset. 
The Heat scored the game’s first nine points, the biggest spurt to open a Miami game this season, and Wade quick­ly got rolling as well. He shot 7 for 8 in the first quarter, had 25 points by halftime, and Miami was well on its way to winning its only home game during an odd 17-day stretch that included a just-completed six -game road swing followed now by games in Charlotte and Washington. 
The Charlotte game looms large for Miami. The Bobcats are 17-4 at home, and will enter Wednesday just a half-game back of Miami for the No. 5 spot in the Eastern Conference. 
“We don’t want to overstate this,” Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. “We have a battle tomorrow. And we understand that. They’re 
w aiti n g  fo r  us  an d  w e’r e  
l o ok i ng  fo r w a r d  t o  t his  
game.”  

Dahntay Jones scored 13 and Roy Hibbert added 12 for Indiana. 
Just about everything that could go wrong for the Pacers did, including a pair of bizarre occurrences involving 3-pointers. 
Wade was credited with one of his 3-pointers with 
3:49 left in the opening quar­ter when Murphy got called for goaltending, a rarity on any shot from the outside to begin with. The try rattled around the cylinder, and Murphy grabbed the ball when it was coming off the rim. 
“That’s a first,” Wade said. 
And then the Pacers lost three points in the third quarter, 6 minutes after thinking they had them. 
Rush’s 3-pointer early in the quarter got Indiana to 63-46. Already down by 22, during a time-out with 5:34 left in the quarter officials reviewed the play and deter­mined Rush’s shot came after the 24-second shot clock had expired, taking points off the board. 
By then, Wade had done more than enough anyway. 
“Unstoppable,” Beasley said. “I mean, how do you guard that? Too quick for you to play up on him. He’s hot so you don’t want to play off him. Scary.” 
MLB 
Lincecum, 70 others reach new agreements 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — San Francisco Giants ace Tim Lincecum asked for $13 million in salary arbitration, a record for a player eligible for the first time, and Seattle pitcher Felix Hernandez closed in on a five-year contract with the Mariners worth about $78 mil­lion. 
On the busiest day of base­ball’s offseason, 71 players eli­gible for arbitration reached agreements on contracts, leav­ing just 38 still on track for hearings next month. That’s a fraction of the more than 200 players eligible for arbitration in November, the 128 who filed on Friday and the 46 who swapped figures with their teams earlier Tuesday. 
Boston Red Sox closer Jonathan Papelbon agreed to a $9.35 million, one-year deal, the highest salary for a reliev­er with at least four years of major league service. The agreement surpassed Mariano Rivera’s $7.25 million contract after the 2000 season and was halfway between the $10.25 million Papelbon asked for and the $8.45 million the Red Sox offered. 
Colorado reached a prelimi­nary agreement on a $22.5 million, three-year contract with closer Huston Street and a $7.55 million, two-year deal with setup man Rafael Betancourt, two other people said separately, also on condi­tion of anonymity because the agreements were not yet final. 
Lincecum is seeking the rich­est contract ever awarded in arbitration, surpassing the $10 million that Alfonso Soriano (2006) and Francisco Rodriguez (2008) received in losses and Ryan Howard won at a hearing in 2008. Howard’s request had been the highest ever for a player in his first year of eligibility. 
San Francisco offered $8 million to Lincecum, 40-17 with a 2.90 ERA since he was brought up early in the 2007 season. He won the NL Cy Young Award in his each of first two full seasons, becom­ing the first repeat winner since Randy Johnson from 1999-02. Lincecum was a bar­gain for the Giants last year, when he made $650,000. 
Also on Tuesday, Lincecum agreed to pay $513 to resolve marijuana charges against him in Washington state. He originally faced two misde­meanor charges of marijuana and drug paraphernalia pos­session stemming from a traf­fic stop on Oct. 30. The charges were reduced to a civil infraction. 
Hernandez asked for the sec-ond-highest figure in arbitra­tion, $11.5 million, and the Mariners offered $7.2 million. The value of his agreement was confirmed by a person with knowledge of the deal, also on condition of anonymity because the contract was not yet finished. 
Tampa Bay and pitcher Matt Garza both filed at $3.35 mil­lion, an unusual occurrence. Not surprisingly, they also agreed at that figure. 

NFL 
Seahawks hire new GM 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE — The Seattle Seahawks hired Green Bay Packers executive John Schneider as their new general manager to work “shoulder to shoulder” with powerful new coach Pete Carroll in a revamped team leadership. 
The Seahawks confirmed the hiring of the 38-year-old Schneider, a 17-year veteran of NFL personnel work, Tuesday afternoon. ESPN first reported the deal. 
The team will formally introduce Schneider on Wednesday at team headquarters. 
Schneider has been the Packers’ director of football operations since May 2008. He was the top personnel assistant to Green Bay’s GM for six years before that. He spent 2000 as Seattle’s director of player personnel in the Seahawks regime of former Packers coach Mike Holmgren and current Green Bay GM Ted Thompson. He was the vice president of player per­sonnel for the Redskins for one year, 2001, before returning to Green Bay. 
“We are happy for John and his family as he takes on a new oppor­tunity in Seattle. He has been a great asset to the Packers,” Thompson said from Green Bay. “We appreciate all that he has done, and we wish him the best.” 
Schneider replaces Tim Ruskell. The Seahawks forced Ruskell to resign as GM and president last month as Seattle was finishing 5­11 and losing its last four games by a combined 123-37. 
The Seahawks are 9-23 since their last playoff game in January 2008, a loss at Green Bay. 
Seahawks chief executive officer Tod Leiweke said last week there will be three doors atop Seattle’s remodeled football operations: “a cap/contract door” for money and number crunching, a job returning vice president for football adminis­tration John Idzik is poised to han­dle; a GM door that Schneider will sit behind; “and Pete will have his own, unique door.” 
Leiweke said his job will be to ensure collaboration between the three positions. 
The lack of a single authority in football matters is something Seattle hasn’t had since before Holmgren arrived as a Super Bowl champion from Green Bay to become the coach and general manager in 1999. 
Leiweke said Carroll will work “shoulder to shoulder” with the new GM. 
“The cool thing is, we are getting an outstanding coach as the cen­terpiece, and we are going to build around that,” Leiweke said of Carroll, reinforcing that Schneider will not have the same kind of sweeping powers NFL GMs tradi­tionally have enjoyed. 
Schneider, a native of De Pere, Wis., interviewed with the Seahawks on Jan. 12, hours after Seattle introduced Carroll as their replacement for fired coach Jim Mora. 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 20. 2010 
TENNIS 
Kuznetsova defeats Pavlyuchenkova in straight sets 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia — French Open champion Svetlana Kuznetsova became the first player into the third round of the Australian Open with a 6-2, 6-2 win Wednesday over fellow Russian Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova. 
The third-seeded Kuznetsova was dominant after taking a 5-1 lead in the first set by breaking Pavlyuchenkova’s first two serv­ice games. 
She got on top of most rallies with a strong forehand and had 27 winners against only seven for Pavlyuchenkova. 
Kuznetsova, who has two Grand Slam singles champi­onships — adding the French last year to her win at the 2004 
U.S. Open — has a chance to reach the No. 1 ranking for the first time if she clinches the Australian Open title. 
In eight previous trips to Melbourne Park, Kuznetsova has advanced to the quarterfi­nals twice, including last year when she lost to eventual cham­pion Serena Williams after being up a set and a break. 
This year, the 24-year-old Russian is feeling more confi­dent of winning. 
“Yes, definitely, I know all the way how to go — I’ve done it twice,” Kuznetsova said. “It’s exciting. You always have dif­ferent motivation at the Grand Slams — I love to play here.” 
No. 4 Caroline Wozniacki of Denmark, who lost the U.S. Open final to Kim Clijsters in September, had a 6-4, 6-2 first-round win over Canada’s Aleksandra Wozniak. 
In other first-round matches carried over from the rain-interrupted opening days, No. 7 Victoria Azarenka of Belarus beat French wild card Stephanie Cohen-Aloro 6-2, 6-0, No. 9 Vera Zvonareva beat Kristina Kucova of Slovakia 6-2, 6-0 and No. 16 Li Na of China, a quarterfinalist at the U.S. Open, beat New Zealander Marina Erakovic 6-2, 6-0. 
Serena Williams returned to Grand Slam play Tuesday for the first time since her tirade against the line judge who called her for a foot fault during her U.S. Open semifinal loss to Clijsters. 
And while the 11-time major winner did seem less effusive than usual on court, Williams didn’t hold back after her 6-2, 6-1 win over 18-year-old Urszula Radwanska about what she thought of the punishment. 
“I don’t know whoever got fined like that. People said worse, done worse,” she said, “I think it was a bit much.” 
Williams was fined $82,500 and warned she could be sus­pended from the U.S. Open for another “major offense” at any Grand Slam event in the next two years. Williams said she doubts whether one of the top men would have drawn such a fine. 
“In tennis I think we’ve been able to do really well with hav­ing fought so hard to get equal prize money,” said Williams, who last year became the first woman to surpass $6 million in prize money in a season. “I think that’s really good,” she said. “But I think we still sort of, say, live in a man’s world. Some incidents can bring you back to life and back into reali­ty.” 
Williams acknowledges that “what I did wasn’t right, but I turned that around. She set up a charity auction with the aim of raising $92,000 for “ladies, women ... schools in Africa ... Haiti.” Sister Venus Williams contributed a memorabilia item for the sale. 
Venus, seeded sixth, opened with a 6-2, 6-2 win over Lucie Safarova. Also advancing were No. 8 Jelena Jankovic, No. 11 Marion Bartoli, No. 13 Sam Stosur and No. 19 Nadia Petrova. Melanie Oudin, the 18­year-old American who made a surprising run to last year’s U.S. Open quarterfinals, lost 2-6, 7­5, 7-5 to Alla Kudryavtseva of Russia. 
Roger Federer hadn’t dropped a set in the opening round of a major for six years and was on track to continue that run when he was a break up against Igor Andreev, whose girlfriend Maria Kirilenko ousted 2008 champion Maria Sharapova on the opening day at Melbourne Park. 


Wednesday, January 20, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 

Cooks 
continued from page 24 
the same message as one voice and letting that trickle down through the program means that everyone is hearing the same things,” Cooks said. “Everyone is believing the same thing and everyone is moving in one direc­tion. That only leads to suc­cess.”A former high school stand­out from Texas, Cooks will fulfill the role of lead recruiter in the Lone Star State. 

“I think it helps that I grew up there from the standpoint that I have a lot of relationships built in through high school coaches that know me as a player and as a coach,” Cooks said. “There will be hurdles, but nothing I have not faced before. The good thing about Texas is that there is a large group of great athletes. Some will be the right fit for this program.” 
Kelly is fully confident in Cooks’ capacity to find talent in one of the most highly recruited states in the country. However, he is more impressed by his ability to relate to players and develop relationships that will pay divi­dends in the future. 
“He’s an outstanding football coach and person, and gives us a great tie into the state of Texas in recruiting,” Kelly said. “[Cooks] will do a terrific job in on the recruiting end, but more impor­tantly, building strong relation­ships with our players.” 
Cooks will have his work cut out for him. 2009 featured a mul­titude of missed tackles and poor coverages by the linebacker core, a contributing factor in a number of Irish losses. Yet Cooks is excit­ed to be a part of the Brian Kelly era at Notre Dame. 
“This is a place to me that growing up as a kid in Texas, you watched Notre Dame or Michigan,” Cooks said. “When I think about the opportunity to come to Notre Dame, this is the pinnacle of college football. Obviously, we’ve got to put our stamp on it and get it going in the right direction, but Notre Dame is Notre Dame.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Hart leads Purdue to win 
Associated Press 
CHAMPAIGN, Ill. — John Hart had played 33 minutes 
of basketball for No. 13 Purdue this season before Tuesday night’s game against Illinois. 
Hart wasn’t even listed in the game's official score book, costing the Boilermakers a technical foul and two points at the free throw line when he did play. The Illini said they knew nothing about him. 
Hart more than made up for the technical and intro­duced himself to Illinois with 14 points, five of them in an early second-half run that gave the Boilermakers a lead they rode to an 84-78 victo­ry. 
“Our guy obviously made a mistake and he wasn’t in the score book,” Purdue coach Matt Painter said. “It cost us two points. It's a pretty good trade out.” 
JaJuan Johnson led Purdue with 24 points. 
The win ended a three ­game losing streak for Purdue (15-3, 3-3) and kept the Boilermakers in the thick of a crowded Big Ten, in a fifth -place tie with Ohio State and Minnesota. 
The loss dropped Illinois (12-7) to 4-2 in the confer­ence and two games behind Big Ten leaders Michigan State. 
Demetri McCamey led the Illini with a game-high 28 points, including 13 from the free throw line. But he missed six free throws, and the Illini were 17 of 29 (58.6 percent) from the line. 
“Demetri played a heck of a ball game,” Illinois coach Bruce Weber said. “It’s just the free throws.” McCamey hit both free 
After trailing 32-28 at the throws for a 30-26 lead and half, Purdue opened the sec-Illinois led 32-28 at the half. ond half with a 15-4 run. “I thought they outplayed 
Hart keyed the run, first us more than a four-point with a fast break layup that difference, especially on the tied the score at 32, then glass,” Painter said of the with a 3-pointer that gave first half. the Boilermakers a 35-32 Illinois held a slim 23-21 lead. rebounding edge at half 
“We had no energy to start time, but had 11 offensive the second half,” Weber said. boards — and only four sec­
“ I t ' s  b a f - o n d -c h a n c e  
fling.”  points  to  sho w  
T h e g a m e started to slip  “We had no energy to  for them. We b e r  c o m - 
a w a y  f r o m  start the second half.  p l a i n e d  a b o u t  
the Illini even b e f o r e h a l f - It’s baffing.”  h i s t e a m ' s missed opportu­ 
time, though.  nity.  
P  u  r  d  u  e  Bruce Weber  “ We  a c t u a l l y  
w e n t  c o l d  Illinois coach  p l a y e d  p r e t t y  

from the field midway through the first half, failing to find the basket from the field for 
7:01. But Illinois didn’t do much with the opportunity. 
The Illini led 16-12 at the start of that stretch, with 
10:52 on the clock, and 26­20 when Moore broke the ice at 3:51. 
In between Robbie Hummel and Johnson kept Purdue going with two free throws each. 
But Illinois could only blame itself. The Illini were 4 for 12 from the field over those seven minutes, includ­ing 0 for 3 from three-point range. 
Purdue then closed the gap to 28-26 on a jump shot by Hart with 53 seconds left in the half. 
Only an unusual technical 
— called when the officials noticed after Hart's first points that he didn't appear on the official roster — let Illinois widen its cushion. 
good on the 
defensive end 
but not on the offensive end,” he said. “We could have grabbed the game but didn’t.” 
Purdue was effective at the free throw line, hitting 27 for 34 (79.4 percent). 
And the Boilermakers, after hitting just 10 of the 30 first-half shots, finished 27 for 56 (48.2 percent). They hit 65.4 percent — 17 for 26 — of their second-half shot. 
Illinois held Purdue’s lead­ing scorer, Hummel, to 11 points, but McCamey said the Illini failed to make the changes it needed to when Painter put Hart in the game. 
“The game is all about adjustments, and we didn't adjust tonight,” he said. 
Painter credited Hart, who played 18 minutes Tuesday, with the spark he said Purdue has lacked. 
“I thought John had an edge to him, just from not playing,” Painter said. 
NBA 
LeBron leads Cavs to easy victory 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND — Shaquille O’Neal had one regret about moving into elite NBA scoring air. It should have happened long ago. 
O’Neal became the fifth player to score 28,000 career points, and the Big Diesel made his enormous presence known at both ends of the floor as the Cleveland Cavaliers began a long stretch of home games with a 108-100 win over the Toronto Raptors on Tuesday night. 
O’Neal reached the major milestone with a layup in the first minute. He was proud of the achievement, but felt it was over­due. 
“I’ve missed like 5,000 free throws,” O’Neal said. “If I had at least hit half of those, then I would be at 30,000 right now.” 
LeBron James scored 28 points and performed a few sig­nature dunks that won’t be seen during the All-Star slam contest and Mo Williams added 22 as the Cavs, who just returned from a long road trip, improved to 15-3 at Quicken Loans Arena. They play 10 of their next 12 at home before Feb. 19. 
The Eastern Conference lead­ers will host the Los Angeles Lakers on Thursday night. 
James had 11 assists and nine rebounds, missing out on No. 10 and a triple-double when he let a rebound slip out of his hands in the final minute. 
O’Neal added 16 points, assist­ed on two big baskets down the stretch and set the tone for Cleveland’s defense in the second half by knocking down Toronto guards Demar DeRozan and Jarrett Jack with hard fouls. 
“There’s no layups when Shaq is covering the glass,” James said. “That’s what he’s about. He doesn’t care about putting guys on the floor.” 
With a layup in the opening minute, O’Neal joined Kareem Abdul-Jabbar (38,387), Karl Malone (36,928), Michael Jordan (32,292) and Wilt Chamberlain (31,419) as the only players to reach the milestone. 
“I’m happy being No. 5. There are some great names in front of me and some great names behind me,” O’Neal said. “I’ve always been a player that only gets happy about the big picture. It’s a great milestone but it’s something I don’t get too giddy about.” 
Chris Bosh scored 21 for Toronto but was limited to just five after halftime by Cleveland’s defense, which allowed 60 points in the opening half. The Raptors only scored 17 in the fourth. 
“They did a better job of clamping down defensively,” Bosh said. “We had a couple of mishaps down the stretch and they made us pay for it.” 
Williams left briefly with a left shoulder strain but came back and hit the game’s biggest shot, a 3-pointer — off a feed from O’Neal — with 5:27 left that gave the Cavs a 98-94 lead. James found a cutting Anderson Varejao for a basket to put the Cavs up by six and then James took a pass from O’Neal and slammed one to make it 102-94. 
“I’ve been known to be able to do something with the ball,” O’Neal said in explaining his assists. 
Cleveland’s defense, nearly nonexistent for three quarters, put its talons in the Raptors in the fourth quarter. 
“We put our hard hats on and did it right,” James said. 
Andrea Bargnani scored 19 for Toronto, which lost for just the fourth time in 14 games. Hedo Turkoglu scored three points — 10 below his average — and spent most of the game in foul trouble. 
“I was afraid to walk by them (the officials), they might call a foul,” Turkoglu said. 
Williams added 10 assists for the Cavs, who have won 10 straight home games over the Raptors. 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 20, 2010 
OLYMPICS 
Cohen makes comeback try 
Associated Press 
SPOKANE, Wash. — Sasha Cohen has quite the hold on fig­ure skating. 
It’s been almost four years since she last competed, and no one has even seen her skate recently. Yet her presence hung over every event this season, and she’s the only woman on anyone’s mind at these U.S. Figure Skating Championships. 
“Have you seen Sasha?” 
“What have you heard about Sasha?” 
“Do you think Sasha is going to compete?” 
“Everybody thinks so many different things,” Cohen said after the mere confirmation she would be at nationals gen­erated more buzz than any­thing any of the current U.S. women have done. “Some peo­ple love me, some people hate me. Some people think I’m going to compete for the next 10 years, some people were ready to write me off five years ago. You can’t listen to what people say. 
“This is for me because I want to do it, and I want to perform again.” 
That Cohen remains so enchanting is hardly a surprise. Tiny (she could be a ballerina), beautiful and unbelievably flex­ible — coach John Nicks likes to say it’s impossible for her to get in an ugly position — she can be breathtaking to watch, the kind of skater that made fans fall in love with the sport in the first place. Funny, per­sonable and, at times, feisty, she gives skating some person­ality, an edge that makes peo­ple feel they have to tune in just to see what she does next. 
And she is, of course, immensely talented. The reign­ing Olympic silver medalist and a three-time world medalist, she has no idea what life is like outside the top five. Just the thought of her is a soothing reminder of the good old days, when the Americans were fix­tures at the top of the figure skating world. 
But expecting Cohen’s return to be an instant fix for the recent woes of the U.S. women is a lot to put on her slim shoul­ders. Four years is an eternity in skating, and the sport has changed in her absence. At 25, she’s six years older than Kim Yu-na and Mao Asada, the last two world champions. With the United States having only two spots at the Vancouver Olympics, there is little, if any, margin for error for her. 
None of that, though, fazes Cohen. 
“What I feel from that is I feel so happy that people want me back, that they’re excited to see me, that they missed me, that it means something to them to have me there,” she said. “For me, I feel just pressure from myself.” 
Rumors of Cohen’s comeback kept the skating grapevine humming for more than a year. She was only 21 when she stepped away after the 2006 worlds, and skaters are stick­ing around longer now, finding success at later ages. Though she was the star attraction on the “Stars on Ice” tour, her act­ing career hadn’t advanced past the dabbling stage. 
Finally, last May, Cohen announced she would, indeed, resume competitive training with the intention of making her third Olympic squad. 
“I wanted to wait until I knew that’s what I wanted to do,” she said. “I had this overwhelming feeling that this is what I want to do, I want to embrace this challenge. I waited for the deci­sion to pick me, I didn’t force something. It was always some­thing that was on my mind, but it’s not something like, ‘Oh! I’m going to the movies.’ If you do this, you DO this.” 
But why? After devoting most of her life to training, she was just starting to explore life on her own terms. She hasn’t lost her passion for acting and dreams of going to college at NYU. Her comeback put all of that on hold. 
FENCING 
Irish fencers impress at USFACup competition 
By KEVIN BALDWIN 
Sports Writer 
As inter-collegiate play draws closer, the Irish will likely gain some ground in the preseason rankings after an outstanding performance in the USFA North American Cup this weekend. 
“It is the USFA national team try outs,” Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said, “ath­letes from all over the conti­nent competing for a place on the national team and the pos­sibility to represent their country in the World Cup, University Games, or world championships.” 
The highly touted sopho­more Courtney Hurley and freshman Lian Osier contin­ued their success at the inter­national level of competition, bringing home gold medals in the women’s Under-20 epee and saber events, respectively. Hurley also finished second in the Division I women’s epee. 
Other top-10 finishers for the women’s team include jun­ior Sarah Borrmann who came in third in the Division I foil, as well as up and coming underclassmen freshman Abigail Nichols at seventh in Under-20 Saber, and sopho­more Radmilla Sarkisova at ninth in the Under-20 foil. 
Likewise, the men’s team fared exceptionally well against the world’s best, jun­ior Zach Schirtz taking third place in the Division I foil. Juniors Barron Nydam and Avery Zuck along with fresh­man Jason Choy dominated the Division I saber, all three finishing in the top 10. Sophomore Enzo Castellani also secured a top eight spot in the Under-20 foil. 
“The beginning of our [inter­collegiate] fencing season starts next week, we will be going to New York for an event against the top national teams,” Bednarski said. 
The Irish hope to make a statement this coming week­end in the NYU Duals and the St. Johns Challenge against some of the top programs in the country including defend­ing national champions Penn State. 
The NYU Duals include sev­eral of the top-ranked teams in the nation, and should pro­vide a tough test for Notre Dame. 
Contact Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwi2@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Kammrath leads Belles to victory over Adrian 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
A balanced effort led to the Belles 10th win of the season, as six Saint Mary’s players scored at least seven points in a 67-57 victory over Adrian Tuesday. 
The Belles jumped out to a quick start, leading 22-13 mid­way through the first half, but the Bulldogs closed the deficit to 32-29 at halftime. 
Adrian then took an early lead in the second half, using an 8-0 run to go up 39-36. Saint Mary’s responded with a 17-1 run of their own, taking a com­manding lead that would not be relinquished. 
Sophomore Pasty Mahoney led the Belles with 16 points, and classmate Kelley Murphy scored 12. Senior Anna Kammrath scored eight points while pulling down nine rebounds to lead the team. 
Kammrath has been a leader for the Belles over the last four years, but last week, she stepped into the Saint Mary’s record books with a perform­ance that will not soon be for­gotten. 
In a 91-72 loss to top-10 ranked Hope last Wednesday, Kammrath not only led all scor­ers with 18 points but had 23 rebounds, one short of an MIAA record and a new Saint Mary’s record for a single game. Sixteen of those rebounds came in the first half, one short of her career best for a half. Due to her performance in that game and her 12-point, 14-rebound showing in a win over Olivet, she was named MIAA Player of the Week for the first time in her career. 
“It felt like a great game, but I had no idea I had pulled down so many boards,” Kammrath said. “It means a lot to me as rebounding is something I work hard at.” 
Kammrath is a native of Union Mills, Ind. and a gradu­ate of South Central H.S. She chose to become a Belle because of its small size and the importance placed on academ­ics. She is a biology major and will attend public health school for a Master’s degree in epi­demiology after graduation from Saint Mary’s in the spring. 
Those leadership skills have impressed Belles coach Jennifer Henley. 
“As a senior captain, she has shown great leadership,” Henley said. “She is very organ­ized and communicates very well with the rest of the team. She has been a very big part of helping to push this program towards the top part of the con­ference.” 
The coach mentioned how Kammrath’s rebounding and ability to run the floor greatly complement the Belles’ transi­tion style of play. Henley is also impressed by Kammrath’s work ethic and knowledge of the game. 
“Anna always comes into the season very prepared,” she said. “One of the best traits about Anna is that she never quits! She truly gives this team everything.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 

McGraw 
continued from page 24 
“It was huge for us to have a bounce back game, looking to regain a little of our confi­dence,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “We were a lit­tle sick after [the Connecticut] game and I think we looked it in the first half, but we shook the cobwebs off at halftime and played well in the second half.” 
The effects of Saturday’s demoralizing loss were evi­dent from the opening tip, as the struggling Cardinals (10­8, 2-3 Big East) took advan­tage early. Finishing with a game-high 23 points, Monique Reid paced Louisville to a 12-point lead within the first 15 minutes. 
But McGraw’s squad was able to get back on track late in the first, as the Irish went on a 16-4 run to tie the game at the half. Notre Dame didn’t miss a beat the rest of the way, outscoring the Cardinals 41-23 to close out a much-needed victory. 
“We shot the ball pretty well. [Lechlitner] really car­
ried us in the first half, and continued with the big shots in the second. We played a lot of man-to-man in the second half, and I felt we really frus­trated them with our man-to­man pressure. We just, offen­sively, played much, much better,” McGraw said. 
In addition to the solid play from senior Melissa Lechlitner, the Irish were lift­ed by the efforts of several top performers, not the least of which was freshman phe­nom Skyler Diggins. Diggins led the team with 20 points and dished out two assists as she continues to live up to her preseason billing. 
McGraw believes Diggins’ seamless transition from high school to collegiate basketball and her immediate impact on the team can be attributed to the support of her experi­enced cast of veterans. 
“I think that’s so important because she’s learning shots from the upperclassmen,” McGraw said. “They’re help­ing her, they let her be cre­ative and play her game, and still they communicate well with her. She just fits in so well with everything and everyone.” 
Although Tuesday’s victory will go as just another “W” in the win column towards the conference standings, it also marks the 600th victory in McGraw’s head coaching career. McGraw says the landmark was never a pre­season goal, but still appreci­ates its significance. 
“It means I’ve been at Notre Dame a really long time,” McGraw said. “I look back and think of all the great players I’ve had here, and all the assistant coaches, and how much I’ve enjoyed being at Notre Dame. More than that, how lucky I am to be at Notre Dame. It’s been a great thing, and I’m so thankful to have had the opportunity.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
Wednesday, January 20, 2010 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, January 20, 2010 
the country.” While he coached the last 
Martin 
decade at the Division III 
level, Martin was confident 
continued from page 24 
that his coaching abilities pretty neat for me as a per-would be able to easily trans-son and for my family with late to a higher level at Notre all of the love and respect we Dame. have for this university and “It’s still 18 to 24-year-old what it ’s all kids and still about.” a process of 
After winning a deve loping 
D i v i s i o n I I national title as Kelly’s defensive  “[Martin] knows how to get the best out of  t h o s e k i d s . T h e y ’ r e b i g -ger, stronger  
c o o r d i n a t o r , Martin took over the head coach-i n g p o s i t i o n a t  his players. And the success he had at Grand Valley State is  and faster but I ’ v e c o a c h e d D i v i s i o n I , D i v i s i o n I I  
G r a n d Va l l e y S t a t e a n d c o m -p i l e d a 7 4 -7  unparalleled across the country”  a n d D i v i s i o n III and other t h a n t h a t  
record. Kelly was  they’re no dif­ 
ex c i t ed t o t e am back up with his  Brian Kelly Irish head coach  f e r e n t , ” M a r t i n s a i d .  
former assistant.  “They have  a  
“[Martin] took  lot  more  God- 
a  p r o g r a m  t h a t  gi ven t ale nt,  
had  won  a  num­ b u t  o t h e r  

ber of championships, and, than that the development of believe it or not, built on them is still the key.” that,” Kelly said. “He knows Martin said coaching at how to get the best out of his several levels of competition players. And the success that had actually been a benefit in he has had at Grand Valley both his and Kelly’s develop-State is unparalleled across ment as coaches. 
“The nice thing is from my throughout 2009, and Martin background … is starting off will face the challenge of from the level we started off replacing senior captain Kyle at you have to develop kids,” McCarthy and experienced Martin said. defensive “That’s hopefully backs Sergio what I’ll bring to Brown and 
Notre Dame and the secondary is t h a t a b i l i t y t o  “To go home and lose a game because they  R a e s h McNeil. “ E v e  o n r y  
teach and devel­ had two or thtree  t o u c h d o w n  
o p a n d g e t t h e most out of their G od-given abili-t i e s b e c a u s e a t  quick scoring drives, you can’t live with that.”  goes through t h e s e c o n d -a ry, i ts k i nd o f t h e i r  
t h e  l e v e l  I ’ v e  b a d g e  o f  
c o a c h e d a t y o u h a v e t o o r y o u w o n ’t b e v e r y good.”  Chuck Martin Irish defensive backs coach  h o n o r t h a t w e c a n ’t l e t the ball get in t h e e n d  
B o r n  i n  zone,” Martin  
C h i ca go , Ma r t i n  s a i d  o f  h i s  
said his primary  p h i l o s o p h y  

recruiting regions will be his coaching the unit. “The hometown as well as the biggest thing is no big plays. state of Michigan. If you make a team grind out 
“I grew up my whole life in 10-, 12-, 14-play drives and Chicago, and the excitement they’re good enough to do to be able to [recruit there] is that four or five times in a off the charts,” Martin said. game, you have to kind of tip “I spent the last 12 years of your hat to them and say they my life in Michigan … and I were the better program on have a lot of great ties there that particular day. too.” “But to go home and lose a 
The Notre Dame secondary game because they had two was a unit that struggled or three quick scoring drives, you can’t live with that.” 
Martin also brings on-field experience to the defensive backs group, having played as an All-American safety at Millikin University in Decatur, Ill. He has also coached on the defensive side of the ball as an assistant at Eastern Michigan and Wittenberg University. 
While Martin will go to work with the defensive backs in the coming weeks, for now he’s excited just to be starting a new job at his favorite place. 
“I’ve loved this university, I’ve believed in this universi­ty and everything it stands for from a student-athlete perspective and from a spiri­tual perspective for my whole life. ” Martin said. “The opportunity to come to the place you not only love more than any place on the planet, but you have more respect for how things are done at the University of Notre Dame …this is everything good about what is going on in my opinion.” 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

Diaco 
continued from page 24 
defense here at Notre Dame.” 
It’s no surprise that Diaco, a Butkus Award finalist at Iowa in 1995, would know a thing or two about tackling. Diaco oozes passion for the game as he talks, expounding at length on defensive philosophies and teaching styles. He uses the words “passion” and “love” to describe the manner in which he coaches and, using St. 
“I love, love, love, 
Augustine, top 10 in the explains that he always have, teach-nation in knows no other sacks and 
ing young men,
way. tackles for 
helping them become
“‘With love and loss. It also diligence anything productive men had its share is possible,’” he of chal­
through football.” 
quoted. “And that’s lenges: in the present in coach-final five ing and teaching Bob Diaco games, the every single day. Irish defensive defense gave 
“My development coordinator up an aver-
includes being treated appropri­ately. I loved my coaches because they treated me won­derfully. ... The language isn’t even in my head not to do this.” 
The language that is in his head comes largely from Kelly, whom Diaco said he would fol­low anywhere. 
“There’s not a better guy in America to work for, for me, than Brian Kelly,” he said. 
Diaco started his coaching career at Iowa after graduation as a graduate assistant. He moved to Western Illinois, where he coached the running backs and special teams, before going to Eastern Michigan from 2001 to 2004. 
In 2005 he joined Kelly at Central Michigan for a year before going to Virginia, where he learned what he called the “true” 3-4 defense under Al Groh. 
But he wanted the freedom to teach that Kelly provided, so he rejoined Kelly in Cincinnati in 2009. 
“To be able to work with coach Kelly and be allowed to implement and work and teach, that’s what it’s about,” he said. 
His defense had success last 
season, fin­
ishing in the 
age of 39.4 
points per game, including 45 to Connecticut, 44 to Pittsburgh and 51 in a Sugar Bowl loss to Florida. 
He also has to deal with Kelly’s quick-strike offense, which ranked dead last in time of possession last season and put his defense on the field for a large chunk of the game. 
He’s fine with it. 
“At the end of the game, we have one more point than them, awesome,” Diaco said. “It’s really how the game is put together and conducted to win the game.” 
Diaco said he hasn’t gotten much of a chance to look at his personnel because he has focused on locking up the recruiting class and the players are going through strength and conditioning. But once he does start working with them, his style will stay the same as it has. 
“The core principles for play­ing great defense don’t change wherever you are, wherever you’re at and whatever the previous defensive circum­stances were,” he said. 
That includes tackling, Notre Dame’s Achilles’ heel this sea­son. Diaco said he and Kelly will work on tackling every day, because it needs to be worked every day. First, it takes play­ers with the ability to make open-field tackles, he said. The up-tempo practice style, he said, helps defenders swarm to the ball and cut off angles. Finally, Kelly and Diaco have a variety of drills ranging from T-shirts and shorts to full pads. 
“Coach Kelly will tee it up and we’ll go live,” he said. 
The challenges facing Diaco and Notre Dame’s defense fall right into Diaco’s comfort zone, if you are to believe his body language. Whenever he speaks about football, he leans for­ward, his slate-blue eyes wide and excited as he explains his motivation. 
“I love, love, love, always have, teaching young men, helping them become produc­tive men through football,” he said. “That’s really it for me. What has me hit my two feet on the floor running every morning and go as long and hard as I possibly can is to try to help a young man become a man through football.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
Frilling 
continued from page 24 
years as a student at Notre Dame. 
Despite her personal success, Frilling boasts a specific quality about the team that she feels will help them compete well in the ensuing season. 
“I think our team has a lot of variety compared to other schools,” Frilling said. “We also have a strong doubles lineup and really focus on that a lot. 
Also, we all get along really well and our team dynamic is great.” 
Frilling and the members of the Irish women’s tennis team made it to the semifinals of the NCAA Championship last sea­son. 
“Last year we had the best season [Notre Dame] has ever had, and I hope to do the same or better this year,” Frilling said. 
Currently in the middle of the season, the coming semester of play will determine if the Irish have what it takes to do better than 2009. 
“The middle of season is a grind, but it helps to look for­ward and motivate ourselves for the ultimate goal, the Big East Championship and NCAAs,” Frilling said. “Our spring season will be busy. We have a tough schedule and a good amount of traveling, but everyone is really excited for the upcoming sea­son.” 
Frilling and the Irish will kick off the spring season Saturday on the road against Iowa. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
Wednesday, January 20, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D 


 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 
Wednesday, January 20, 2010 page 24 
FOOTBALL 
Reunion in South Bend 
Bearcats DC Diaco 

Former asst. Martin rejoins Kelly at ND 
to lead defensive backs 
By BILL BRINK By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Sports Writer Associate Sports Editor 
Without knowing it yet, Bob 
At every stop since depart-Diaco might have already 
ing Grand Valley State, Irish endeared himself to those who 
coach Brian Kelly had asked follow his new football team. 
longtime colleague Chuck When discussing the practice 
Martin to join him. And at philosophy of addressing funda­
both schools — Central mentals, he listed those that 
Michigan and Cincinnati — were important. 
Martin declined. “Blocking, tackling, block 
Then, with Kelly now at his destruction,” he listed. He 
dream destination in South paused, then continued, 
Bend, Martin accepted the “Tackling ...” 
offer to lead the defensive He’ll fit right in. 
backs. And the coach with Diaco takes over the position 
two Division II National of defensive coordinator and 
Championships couldn’t be inside linebackers coach. He 
happier. coached with Irish coach Brian 
“I thought this was the Kelly at Cincinnati in 2009 and 
greatest place on the planet at Central Michigan in 2005. 
since I don’t even know what “We have along-standing 
age, but since the first time I relationship in this business, 
figured out that Notre Dame and I think we all know how 
existed,” Martin said. important playing good defense 
“When they broke out the is to winning football games,” 
green jerseys against USC, Kelly said. “Couldn’t be more 
we were out in the backyard excited, more confident in our 
pretending we had green jer-
VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer 
ability to play championship seys putting it on USC. It’s 
Left, defensive coordinator Bob Diaco speaks with the media last Friday. Right, defensive backs coach Chuck see DIACO/page 22 Martin discusses his move from head coach at Grand Valley State to Notre Dame. see MARTIN/page 22 
Former Wisconsin coach Cooks takes over linebackers 
backers are critical to tie into run take a coach that’s only coached honorees. Last season, Cooks ball team.” 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
stopping and pass coverage, so that position, he becomes almost coached a defensive backs unit 2010 marks the second time 
Sports Writer 
it’s a matter of getting the funda-a specialist in one area,” Kelly that limited an explosive Miami Kelly has attempted to add Cooks mentals down — the stance, the said. “I don’t want specialists. I offense to less than 200 yards to his coaching staff. Kelly previ-
Making the transition from one footwork, the eyes. I think if you want great teachers and great passing in the Badgers’ 20-14 vic-ously offered Cooks a position on position to another can be a chal-are a good coach you go out and educators that can communicate tory in the Champs Sports Bowl. his staff while at Central lenging process for any college research all that stuff.” across the board. So first and “In a very short period of time Michigan, but he declined in favor coach. But for outside linebackers Recognizing the possible haz-foremost, what I try to do is put he took over defense and the of an opportunity to coach at coach Kerry Cooks, making the ards of moving a coach from one together a staff that have that defensive backs, in particular, Minnesota. Four years later, Kelly switch from defensive backs to position to another, Irish head ability to coach different posi-and turned them into a strength now adds a proven leader with a linebackers will be a test that he coach Brian Kelly believes Cooks tions.” in their [Badgers’] unit,” Kelly similar approach to winning. is eagerly looking forward to. is more than capable of making Cooks spent the last four sea-said. “I think their last bowl game “I think coach Kelly’s philoso­
“It’s not that you don’t know a the necessary adjustments to sons at Wisconsin, helping the was evident how well they played phy of having everyone send out position,” Cooks said. “Having develop the outside linebackers. Badgers attain a 38-14 record in the back end of their defense been the secondary coach, line-“I think the risks are when you and developing ten all-Big Ten against a very, very skilled foot-see COOKS/page 19 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
McGraw nets 600th victory 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
After suffering the first loss of the season at the hands of Connecticut on national televi­sion, many wondered how the Irish would perform facing the possibility of its first losing streak. But following Tuesday’s 78-60 thrashing of Louisville, No. 4 Notre Dame (16-1, 3-1 Big East) effectively silenced the critics. 
Despite shooting poorly in the first half, strong defense highlighted the Irish come­back. Notre Dame forced 20 turnovers and held Louisville scoreless for over eight min­utes in the second half as the squad returned to its domi­nant form. 
see MCGRAW/page 20 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Frilling hopes to lift Irish to championships 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
Only a few days away from the beginning of the spring sea­son, sophomore standout Kristy Frilling is hoping to lead the Irish to the NCAA Championships in May. 
“Kristy is one of the top dou­bles players in the country and has a chance to do really well this year in singles and dou­bles,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. “She is left handed and has a very good serve.” 
Last year during her fresh­man season, Frilling made an appearance in both the NCAA singles and doubles Championships, earned NCAA All-American status and was named the Big East Freshman of the year, all which con­tributed to one of the best sea­sons in Irish women’s tennis history. 
Frilling, a psychology and sociology major, began playing at the age of 5 with the prompting of lessons from her mother. Though she did not play for her high school, Frilling made appearances at the Junior U.S. Open, Junior Australian Open and Junior Wimbledon tournaments. She was lured to pursue playing for the Irish after visiting many times during her brother’s 
see FRILLING/page 22 




