the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Limits on freedom of religion? 

Students reflect on mosque near Ground Zero 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editor 
Sophomore Kerri Whelan has only seen her dad cry twice — once on Sept. 11, 2001 and another time when he was describing the horrific events he experienced that day. 
Whelan’s father worked in the World Financial Center and was looking out his office window when the second plane crashed into the World Trade Center. 
“He saw people jumping, people on fire,” Whelan said. “What he’s described to me was immense panic in the city.” 
Though Whelan was fortu­nate enough to get through the attack without losing a loved one, family friends and many of her father’s cowork­ers were not as lucky. 
It is her sympathy to those families and reverence for those who lost their lives that makes her uneasy about the proposal for an Islamic cen­ter, which would include a mosque, to be built two blocks from Ground Zero. 
Whelan said she recognizes that the majority of Muslims are peaceful people, but her concern is about sensitivity to those who lost family or friends in the attacks. 
“I’ m all for building mosques all across Manhattan. I’m all for reli­gious freedom,” she said. “I 
see MOSQUE/page 7 




Pep rallies refocued on students 
pep rallies were an important part of life here and wanted to make that a priority this year.” 
Soler and Bell approached Game Day Operations last spring to present the idea of a student walkover and to emphasize the need for more student-oriented pep rallies, Mike Seamon, director of Game Day Operations said. 
Student government teamed up with the Athletic Department, Game Day Operations and Hall 

see RALLIES/page 7 

University remembers 9/11 attack 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
Saturday marks the ninth anniversary of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, and the University community will remember the tragedy that claimed nearly 3,000 lives in a variety of ways throughout the weekend. 
Former United States Homeland Security Secretary Tom Ridge will be on campus today to deliver a lecture titled “A Conversation with Tom Ridge.” 
Edward Conlon, professor and associate dean in the Mendoza College of Business, said that one of the College’s advisory board members, who is also a friend of Ridge, 
see 9/11/page 8 


Lennon to retire in June 
By LAURA MCCRYSTAL 
News Editor 
Charles “Chuck” Lennon Jr., executive director of the Notre Dame Alumni Association, will retire in June after 30 years in 
his current role, accord­ing to a University press release. 
Under L ennon ’s leadership, the number of Notre Dame clubs 
around the world grew from 151 to 276. He earned the Alumni Association a national reputation for its programming, such as those in continuing education, and oversaw the creation of black, Hispanic, Asian-pacific and Native American alumni groups. 
In the last 30 years he worked under three University presi­dents: Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, Fr. Edward “Monk” Malloy and 

see LENNON/page 9 


By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
The student body will help launch a new era of pep ral­lies when it marches down Notre Dame Avenue and into the Irish Green tonight in preparation for the Michigan game Saturday, student body president Catherine Soler said. 
“The morale and student perception of pep rallies last year was low and negative,” Soler said. “All of us in stu­dent government knew that 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC anti-violence program page 3  Things Notre Dame students like page 14  Coach shoots for 450th win page 28  Viewpoint page 12 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT ARE YOUR PREDICTIONS FOR T IS WEEKEND?

THE OBSERVER 




P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 djacobs1@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Molly Madden Allan Joseph Megan Doyle Molly Sammon Caitlin Housley Scene Graphics Ankur Chawla Melissa Kaduck Viewpoint Photo Michelle Maitz Suzanna Pratt 
OFFBEAT 
Hand-cuffed burglary sus­pect steals patrol car 
SEATTLE — A police offi­cer had his patrol car stolen Thursday by a handcuffed burglary suspect who had been put in the back seat. 
“It’s very embarrassing for the officer,” police spokeswoman Renee Witt said. “We’re just lucky the shotgun and none of the other equipment was taken.” 
The patrol car was aban­doned shortly after the sus­pect took off about 2 a.m. He was recaptured -still in handcuffs -about four hours later near his home in south Seattle. 
The 33-year-old suspect, who name was not released, had been caught with elec-
Alayna Calabro  Alexa Craig  Katie Schwab  Natalie Achonwa  
junior  junior  sophomore  freshman  
Pangborn  Pangborn  Holy Cross  Cavanaugh  

“I don’t even  “I think we’re  “Victory.”  “Notre Dame  
know. I’m just  going to be in  will win.”  
excited to be in  beast mode on  
the question of  Saturday.”  
the day!”  




Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

tronics during a break-in at Wing Luke Elementary School, police said. 
He was cuffed behind his back and placed in the patrol car. He managed to maneuver his hands in front of him then slide through a partition to the front seat of the car while the officer was away for a minute, police said. 
Man uses lawn to propose to girlfriend 
CHIPPEWA TOWNSHIP, Mich. — Extra water, some fertilizer and a lot of patience was all one Michigan lawn service owner needed to convince his lady to say “I do.” 
Tommy Dafoe tells the Morning Sun of Mount Pleasant that he spelled out “Will U Marry Me” with fertilizer a few weeks ago in the lawn of the home he shares with girl­friend in Chippewa Township, about 120 miles northwest of Detroit. 
The 24-year-old Dafoe watered his words more frequently and the fertiliz­er helped the grass grow greener. When the grass grew long enough, he used a mower to carefully cut around the letters. 
Then on Friday, Dafoe asked 25-year-old Kristi Volz how the lawn looked 
— and got down on one knee. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Roy Robinson, CFO, senior VP of finance and treasurer of Best Buy will be giving a speech today in Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business from 10:40 
a.m. to 12:10 p.m. The speech is part of the Boardroom Insights Executive Speaker Series. 
Tom Ridge, president and CEO of Ridge Global LLC and former secretary of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security will be giving a lecture today in Jordan Auditorium at 
3:30 p.m. The lecture is free and open to the public. 
The College of Arts and Letters will present its Saturday Scholar Series: “Religion and American Public Life: The 50th Anniversary of JFK’s Houston Speech on the Separation of Church and State” on Saturday at noon. The event will include a discussion with some Notre Dame faculty. Faculty, students, staff and public welcome. 
David Bennett of the Department of Physics will present the Saturday Science Exploration Series: “The Search for Extra-Solar Planets and Signs of Extraterrestrial Life” on Saturday at 1 p.m. The event will take place in room 101 of the Jordan Hall of Science. 
The exhibit “Documenting History, Charting Progress and Exploring the World” will be shown Sunday from 1 to 5 
p.m. in the Snite Museum of Art. Faculty, students, staff and public are welcome to attend. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 
Today Tonight Game day sunday monday tuesday 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 


75 62 HIGH 6772 7463 
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

71 58 LOW 5858 5450 











SMC objects to violence 
New office will raise awareness about abuse against women 
By ALICIA SMITH Associate Saint Mary’s Editor  women are four times more l i k e l y t o b e s e x u a l l y assaulted.  B AV O w i l l a l s o p r o v i d e training opportunities for s t u d e n t s t o l e a r n h o w t o  
Adams said BAVO concen­ h a n d l e v i o l e n t s i t u a t i o n s  
I n 2 0 0 9 , S a i n t M a r y ’s  t r a t e s o n t h e  t h a t m a y  
Co l l e g e r e c e i v e d a t h r e e - issues of sexu­ a r i s e i n  
y e a r g r a n t v a l u e d a t  a l a s s a u l t , “Event s are offered t h e i r  
$ 2 9 9 , 8 9 3 f r o m t h e U . S .  r e l a t i o n s h i p through lives. out the year to 
Department Justice’s Office  v i o l e n c e a n d raise a “ W i t hwareness of  
on Violence Against Women,  s t a l k i n g i n a  the aim to  
which the College used to  t h r e e -p a r t violence  against women e n h a n c e  
c r e a t e B e l l s A g a i n s t  method. issues  and provide t h e  
Vi o l e nc e Of f i c e ( B AV O ), a  “Professional  r e s p o n s e tunities for  
program that addresses the  oppors t a f f p r o v i d e  o f t h e  
v ariou s f o r ms of viol e n c e  s u p p o r t a n d students  to take a stand S a i n t  
women may encounter.  a d v o c a c y f o r against  violence and M a r y ’ s  
A c c o r d i n g t o A s s i s t a n t  s t u d e n t s i n a  C o l l e g eabuse.”  
D irect or for BAVO Connie  c o n f i d e n t i a l  communi- 
Adams, the program strives  environ ment ,”  ty to vio- 
t o e d u c a t e w o m e n a b o u t  A d a m s s a i d . Connie Adams  lence and  
violence.  “Students who Assistant  Director a b u s e ,  
“ T h e a i m o f t h e B e l l e s Against Violence Office is to  experience vio­lence or abuse  t r a i n i n g BAVO s e s s i o n s  
i n c r e a s e t h e C o l l e g e ’s  are able to find  a r e  
c a p a c i ty t o a p p r op r i a te l y  a listening ear  offered to  
and effectively respond to  a n d d i s c u s s o p t i o n s a n d  students, staff and faculty,”  
v i o l e n c e s t u d e n t s m i g h t  resources with BAVO staff.”  Adams said.  
exp erie n ce  According  On Sept. 2, BAVO hosted a  
a n d h e a d  t o A d a m s ,  kick-off event where over  
o f f f u t u r e  B A V O  100 students had the oppor­ 
i n c i d e n t s “Students who experience  s t r i v e s t o  tunity to decorate t-shirts to  
b y e d u c a t - e d u c a t e  take a “stand against vio- 
i n g s t u -violence or a buse are able w o m e n  lence.”  
d e n t s o n to find a liste ning ear and about these  “BAVO also plans to start  
d o m e s t i c discuss op issues. tions and  on e-da y t r aining sessions  
v i o l e n c e ,  “ E v e n t s  that will provide an oppor­ 
resourcesdating vio- with BAVO are offered  tunity for students to find  
lence, sex-staff.”  throughout  actions which they can real­ 
ual assault  the year to  i s t i c a l l y i n c o r p o r a t e i n t o  
a n d s t a l k -Connie  r a i s eAdams  their lives,” Adams said.  
i n g , ”  a w a r e n e s s  A d a m s s a i d s t u d e n t s  
A d a m s Assistant Director  of violence  should contact BAVO direct- 
said. BAVO  a g a i n s t  ly for more information at  
A d a m s  w o m e n  5 7 4 -2 8 4 -4 0 8 1 o r  
said one in  i s s u e s a n d  BellesAgainstViolence@sain  
e v e r y s i x  p r o v i d e  tmarys.edu.  

women will be sexually opportunities for students assaulted during their life-to take a stand against vio­time, and college -aged lence and abuse,” she said. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 



Saint Mary’s alumnae share stories of success 
By BRIANNE CARROLL 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary’s Alumnae Board of Directors collaborat­ed Thursday evening at the Student Center for the unveil­ing of a yearlong project, which aims to create a sense of unity among students and alumnae of Saint Mary’s College. 
The project, called “One Book, One Saint Mary’s,” invites the Saint Mary’s alum­nae, students, faculty, and staff to read and discuss Nicole Krauss’ novel, “The History of Love.” 
The event has received posi­tive feedback with nearly 900 students and alumnae joining the Facebook group of the same name. 
Thursday night’s event also included a seminar for juniors and seniors put on by the Alumnae Board. The seminar focused on giving the girls pro­fessional advice for obtaining a successful career after grad­uation from the College. 
“I went into the seminar hoping to have a better feel for the application and interview­ing process in the professional world,” junior Bridget Meade said. 
Alumnae sat down with the students for an advice session about the job search process and post-graduate opportuni­ties. Afterwards, the girls broke off into small group ses­sions where alumnae members facilitated discussions regard­ing entrepreneurship, career paths, graduate school, resume skills and interview etiquette. 
The alumnae who spoke at the seminar stressed the importance of pursuing a career by building relation­ships with companies, thinking strategically, being creative and being willing to take risks. 
“It was great conversing with successful, professional Saint Mary’s graduates. They were not only great examples for current students, but also great mentors,” Meade said. 
Meade said the alumnae also addressed the girls’ fears about their undecided future or not knowing what career path to pursue at the present time. 
“They were so friendly, help­ful and also encouraging of the fact that we may not know exactly what we want to do right at this moment,” Meade said. “Some of the women that spoke to us ended up in careers completely different from what they intended as college graduates — that was definitely comforting.” 
With just under 100 students in attendance, Meade said the event was a success, and she left with a renewed sense of motivation. 
“I definitely feel more pre­pared for the professional world,” she said. “It’s much less frightening knowing we have such great alumnae to help us.” 
To learn more about upcom­ing events visit www.saint­marys.edu/alumnae-friends or join the Facebook group “One Book, One Saint Mary’s.” 
Contact Brianne Carrol at bcarro01@saintmarys.edu 




‘Rent-a-text’ becomes a bookstore reality 
Student body president’s idea for book borrow is implemented; meets students’ need for more affordable books. 
By JOHN CAMERON  sustainable. Not from a business  
News Writer  standpoint, but in the eyes of  
the students.”  
One of the primary platforms  Currently, 35 percent of the  
student  body  president  textbooks at the Bookstore can  
Catherine Soler ran on last year  be rented. Despite a large por­ 
was a  planned “Rent-a-text”  tion of titles not being included  
program, which became a reali­ in the program, Notre Dame’s  
ty for students  renting  pro- 
at the begin- gram contains  
ning of semester.  this  “Professors wouldn’t just  the eighth highest volume  
A follow-up survey distrib­uted to users  switch over to a program and commit to a book if  of any universi­ty bookstore in the nation.  
in  the  Notre  they weren’t sure the  Bell said the  
D H  a a m  m m  e  e s  program would work.”  reason titles  more aren’t  
B o o k s t o r e  available  for  
indicated the  Andrew Bell  rent is because  
program was  student body  p r o f e s s o r s  
a success in helping stu­ vide president  were uncertain of whether the  
dents  meet  program would  
their textbook  be a success, so  
needs  at  a  more  affordable  many did not to commit to in the SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer  
price,  but  the  surveys  also  program’s debut semester. Students gather around the rental table to print their schedules and register for the new “Rent- 
showed that students believed  “For  a  textbook  to  be A-Text” program offered at the Hammes Bookstore. Rentals began at the start of this semester.  
the number of titles available to  rentable, it has to be used for a  
rent could be expanded. “Overall we found that stu­ certain number of semesters,” Bell said. “Professors wouldn’t  “We’re going to collaborate [with the Bookstore] to encour­ dent body in an e-mail. Bell said student government and the  ways we’ve found to do that.” Bell considers the Rent-a-text  
dents said they would rent more books if they could, if there were more titles available, which was something we expected to be a problem,” Andrew Bell, student body vice president, said. “Going in, that  just switch over to a program and commit to a book if they weren’t sure the program would work.” While Bell’s primary goal is getting more professors partici­pating in the program, he said  age professors to consider rentable textbooks,” he said. “By no means do we want them to consider books that would lower the academic quality of the class, that wouldn’t be worth it.”  Bookstore are continuing to seek student feedback to further improve the program. “We’re still open to input on things that worked, but espe­cially to things that didn’t,” he said. “We want to make it better  program an imperfect success and a work-in-progress. “It was an achievement get­ting it into the bookstore, but it is by no means the end of our involvement in the program,” Bell said.  
was one of our biggest con­cerns, that the number would be too low to keep the program  the priority remains providing students with the best academic resources and overall education.  In addition to the original paper survey, an electronic sur­vey will soon be sent to the stu­ and take steps toward providing cheaper textbooks, and we think this is one of the great new  Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu  


rally because of the walkovers it rubs off on everybody.” when they coordinate students Kelly will host each pep rally 

Rallies 
going to the pep rallies,” Bell in order to deliver his message continued from page 1 said. from the week of practice, and 
HPC co-chairs Alexa Doyle to take the entire team before Presidents’ Council (HPC) to and Mike Oliver said the stu-the student body to introduce coordinate pep rally changes, dent body powers the football the captains to the fans, Soler said. team’s spirit during the season. Seamon said. 
“The groups that are our “When the team comes to This year’s pep rallies will be biggest focus are the team and the pep rally and see thou-“short but with high intensity the student body,” sands of stu-and lots of spirit,” Soler said. Seamon said. dents there, “We made sure pep rallies “With a new they will be will have no lag time now,” 
“With a new coach 
coach and a new electrified,” Doyle said. “When the students era starting, we and a new era Oliver said. arrive the pep rally will start.” thought it was a starting, we thought “They will The first pep rallies of the perfect time to see how year will be hosted in a num­
it was the perfect
reengage the stu-much the stu-ber of different locations dent body.” time to reengage the dents are including Irish Green, the 
Seamon said the student body.” b e h i n d Purcell Pavilion and Stepan walkover could be them.” Center to test the benefits and the “newest Notre A priority drawbacks of different campus 
Mike Seamon 
Dame student tra-for the pep venues, Bell said. dition.” Game Day Operations rallies should “This is the year where stu­
“We wanted to director be bringing dents can prove which pep make students a the team and rally locations they like the bigger focus of the the student most so we hope students pep rallies,” Seamon said. body together before the game, embrace this chance,” Bell “What a better way to do that Oliver said. said. “It will be hard to per-than announce their arrival “We are trying to reinforce suade those involved in plan-and have them march down the relationship between stu-ning the pep rally to go to a the avenue into a huge dents and the football program certain location if there was reserved space for them?” that makes Notre not a huge 
The University will close Dame so special,” student show-Notre Dame Avenue for 15 Soler said. ing.” 
“We are trying to 
minutes while the student body HPC arranged Seamon said follows a procession consisting a competition for reinforce the 25 to 30 thou-of the Notre Dame Security the most spirited sand fans are 
relationship between
Police, the Notre Dame Fire residence hall expected for 
students and the
Department, the cheerleading during each pep the Michigan and pom squads, the lep-rally. As an extra football program that pep rally. rechaun and the marching incentive, the “We were 
makes Notre Dame so 
band into a designated student winning hall will very pleased 
special.” 
section next to the stage at win a visit from with the Irish Green, Seamon said. head coach Brian o p p o r t u n i t y 
“We are very excited about Kelly. Catherine Soler given to us by the idea of the walkover,” Bell Seamon said the athletic 
student body president
said. “It will eliminate dorms Kelly was excited department in just standing around with a about the new hearing our huge group of alumni waiting attitude about ideas for for the pep rally to start.” pep rallies from the start of the restructuring,” Bell said. “We 
Bell said pep rallies should to discussions between the foot-appreciate their openness.” be a time for the students and ball team, Game Day Soler said the student the football team to share their Operations and the Athletics walkover will begin at 5:45 enthusiasm about the upcom-Department. p.m. from Main Circle. ing game. “Coach Kelly totally gets 
“Residence halls have a huge Notre Dame,” he said. “His Contact Megan Doyle at role in the success of the pep enthusiasm is contagious, and mdoyle11@nd.edu 
cratic, that they didn’t believe in American liberty,” 

Mosque 
McGreevy said. “In fact, over 
continued from page 1 
think they have every right to practice their religion. I just don’t know why it has to be two blocks [away from Ground Zero.]” 
Mahan Mirza, assistant pro­fessor of Arabic and Islamic Studies, said the Muslims proposing the center are not foreigners. They are people who have been members of the community for time, that proved not to be the case and I think that’s what will happen for Muslims as well.” 
He also said Americans in the 19th century had a mis­understanding of the way Catholic nuns dressed — one that’s similar to the views some Americans now have of Muslim women. 
“Some people in the 19th 
century looked 
at the way 
nuns dressed 
years and peo-and said, 
“There is this idea 
ple who were ‘Wow, that ’s also victims of that Muslims are strange and the terrorist foreigners and they bizarre and attacks, he women should-
are the ‘other’ and 
said. n’t be wearing 
“There is this they as a cllective those clothes idea that somehow attacked us. and why are Muslims are they so cov ­
To pose it as ‘they 
foreigners and ered? ” he they are the attacked us’ and ‘we said. “[Now,] ‘other’ and they the victims reject this’ most people as a collective are under ­
is inaccurate..” 
somehow standing of attacked us,” he Catholic reli ­said. “To pose it Mahan Mirza gious women 
as ‘they assistance professor who want to attacked us ’ dress that way 
Arabic and Islamic 
and ‘we the vic-and I think 
studies
tims reject this’ over time that’s is inaccurate. what will hap-They are also pen with the victims and Muslims.” they are also us. They are McGreevy said Muslims also the residents of the city.” should be able to exert their 
John McGreevy, dean of the religious freedom, just as College of Arts and Letters, Catholics did two centuries was one of two faculty mem-ago. bers who contributed a blog “It is a sensitive issue. I entry to The New York wouldn’t deny that,” he said. Review of Books regarding “But in the end I think we do the mosque controversy. more to honor the best 
McGreevy and Scott American traditions by per-Appleby, director of the Kroc mitting the mosque than we Institute for International do by forbidding it and stig-Peace Studies, compared cur-matizing Islam in a way rent fears of Muslims to fears that’s just not necessary.” of Catholics in the 19th cen­tury. Contact Sarah Mervosh at 
“That they were anti-demo-smervosh@nd.edu 


9/11 
continued from page 1 
approached Conlon and the other deans about having the former secretary speak during this nationally significant weekend. 
“He indicated that he may be able to convince the secretary to come to Notre Dame for the weekend of the ninth anniver­sary of the Sept. 11 attacks, and wanted to know if the Mendoza College would be interested in hosting him,” Conlon said. “Obviously, we were.” 
Conlon said Ridge plans to discuss his observations on how the United States has responded to the terrorist threat since 9/11. Conlon also expects Ridge will give his opinion about how he thinks the future of the United States and terrorism will unfold. 
“We have asked Secretary Ridge to comment on how the threat of terrorism has impact­ed the economic institutions of the world, including markets and businesses,” Conlon said. 
There will be a question and answer session after Ridge speaks, Conlon said. 
“It is truly a great opportuni­ty for the Notre Dame commu­nity to hear Secretary Ridge’s thoughts on the past, present and future of homeland securi­ty,” he said. “As the first direc­tor of Homeland Security, he has a unique and well-honed perspective on the challenges we will all face in minimizing the effect that terrorism has on the way we all live our lives.” 
Ridge will also be recognized at the football game against Michigan Saturday. 
“Secretary Ridge will stand with [University President Fr. Jenkins], be introduced to the crowd and hand our national colors to the individuals involved in the flag presenta­tion ceremony,” University spokesman Dennis Brown said. 
Additionally, the Notre Dame football team will remember the anniversary of the terrorist attacks by wearing shirts with a red, white and blue inter­locking ND during their early warm-ups, Brown said. 
“The Army Black Daggers parachute team will bring the American flag and the game ball into the stadium in a pre­game ceremony,” Brown said. “We will also observe a moment of silence to be fol­lowed by a prayer by Fr. Jenkins.” 
Many students do not need a special ceremony to remember the tragic events that shook the country nine years ago. 
“I’m from New York and knew lots who lost loved ones on 9/11,” student body presi­dent Catherine Soler said. “It’s definitely something that still hits home for me.” 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 




ing the Mental Health Association such as the Pray@ND website of St. Joseph County, the South and Irish Online, an alumni net-

Lennon 
continued from page 1 
Fr. John Jenkins. 
“Chuck Lennon embodies the spirit of Notre Dame,” Jenkins said in the press release. “As a student, athlete, alumnus, coach, administrator, and, since 1981, as the leader of one of the most extraordinary alumni associa­tions in the nation, that spirit ani­mates everything he does.” 
Lennon earned a bachelor’s degree from Notre Dame in 1961 and a master’s degree in guid­ance and counseling in 1962. As an undergraduate, he played three seasons of baseball and earned a monogram. From 1961 to 1966, he worked for the University’s Athletic Department as an assistant basketball and baseball coach and an assistant ticket manager. He was also the University’s coordinator of research and sponsored pro­grams for two years. 
Outside the University, Lennon held many positions South Bend community before he began his work with the Alumni Association. He was executive director of local agencies, includ-Bend Model Cities Program, the Community Development Agency, the Department of Redevelopment and the Housing Allowance office. 
From 1978 to 1981, he was president of the St. Joseph Insurance Agency, and was a member of the South Bend Community School Corporation Board of Trustees for 13 years. 
In 1991, Lennon became assis­tant vice president of University Relations in addition to his role with the Alumni Association. He was promoted to associate vice president in 1999. 
Lennon taught management at Notre Dame’s Mendoza College of Business for both graduate and undergraduate students. 
As executive director, Lennon expanded the involvement of women, senior, young and inter­national alumni within the Alumni Association. He also helped establish the Association’s Hesburgh Lecture Series and Excellence in Teaching program and created a career develop­ment program for graduates. 
Most recently, he led the Alumni Association’s growth on the Internet through programs working forum. 
During his time with the Alumni Association, Lennon received several awards for his commitment to the University, including the Alumni Association’s Armstrong Award in 1989 and the Notre Dame Presidential award in 1993. The student body presented him with the Irish Clover Award in 1992. In 2001, he received the Professional Development Award for Mentoring Minorities from the Council for Advancement and Support of Education. 
“His life is one of loving service to Notre Dame,” Jenkins said. “We will miss his leadership, insight and infectious enthusiasm but wish him the very best in this next stage in his life.” 
Lennon and his wife Joan have five children and 16 grandchil­dren. Three of their children graduated from Notre Dame. 
According to the press release, Lou Nanni, vice president for University Relations, will conduct a national search to fill Lennon’s position. 
Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 





Protests erupt over fatal police shooting 
utive nights and used the death Hernandez shot Jamines twice were Steven Rodriguez and objects and four people were 
Associated Press 
to claim past injustices and vent in the head. He died at the Paris Pineda, both five-year vet-arrested on suspicion of misde-
LOS ANGELES — The police ongoing frustrations. scene. Several witnesses later erans of the department. All the meanor inciting a riot. officer who shot and killed a Police have defended the told police Jamines had been officers are Latino and speak The LAPD has long struggled knife-wielding Guatemalan killing and said they’ve been drinking. Spanish. with image problems in poorer immigrant whose death has taken aback by the high emo-Juan Barillas, a member of Police said the knife was cov-communities. sparked three days of violent tions following what looked like the Union de Guatemaltecos ered in blood, and DNA tests On May 1, 2007, police pum­protests in Los Angeles had a clear-cut case of justifiable use Emigrantes, told the crowd at were being carried out to deter-meled immigration rights been involved in two previous of force. Each year, the LAPD is Wednesday’s meeting that mine whose it was. Officers marchers and reporters with shootings while on duty, accord-involved in up to about 40 Jamines spoke neither English received unconfirmed reports batons and shot rubber bullets ing to a media report. shootings; those that typically nor Spanish. Instead, he spoke Jamines may have attacked into the crowd. The city was 
The Los Angeles Times report cause controversy involve Quiche, a Mayan dialect, Barills someone before police arrived, gripped by widespread riots in came as hundreds of people unarmed or surrendered sus-said. Pitcher said. 1992 after four white officers returned to the streets for a pects. “They could have used pepper The officers involved were were acquitted of the videotaped third night of protests over the Residents outraged over the spray or a Taser gun,” said placed on administrative leave, beating of Rodney King, a black fatal shooting of Manuel killing have said the top brass Salvador Sanabria, executive a standard move after shoot-motorist. Jamines, 37, sporadically throw-should have handled the situa-director of the nonprofit com-ings. Beck said the recent protests ing rocks and bottles at officers tion differently and say depart-munity group El Rescate. “The Protesters who gathered out-were the culmination of a vari­and setting scattered rubbish ment officials’ surprise shows community ... reacted this way side the local police station ety of frustrations, including a fires. the agency is out of touch with because they thought there was Tuesday night pelted officers terrible economy and a feeling 
Earlier Wednesday evening, the people. another way to deal with a with eggs, rocks and bottles and of victimization among immi­police Chief Charlie Beck faced Authorities have said the bicy-drunk guy.” set a trash bin on fire. Others grants who say the U.S. popula­an angry crowd at a community cle officers told Jamines in Pitcher said Jamines was an hurled a TV, an air conditioner tion likes to blame them for meeting intended to quell the Spanish and English to put illegal immigrant from and other objects from apart-many of society’s shortcomings. violence. down the weapon. Instead, Guatemala. The day laborer was ment buildings. Officers fired at He also blamed activist 
Citing police officials and Jamines raised the knife above carrying a switchblade knife least two rounds of foam projec-groups, including the records, the Times said that his head and lunged at Officer with a serrated, 3-inch (8-cen-tiles at demonstrators and Revolutionary Communist Party, Officer Frank Hernandez, a 13-Frank Hernandez, a 13-year timeter) blade. The police cap-arrested 22 people, mainly for for co-opting peaceful vigils and year department veteran, shot a veteran of the department, said tain pledged an open and trans-failure to disperse and unlawful inciting violent protests. female robbery suspect in 1999 Capt. Kris Pitcher, who heads parent investigation into the assembly. Attempts to reach an RCP when the woman allegedly the LAPD's Force Investigation shooting. A night earlier, three officers spokesman were not immediate-pointed a handgun at Division. The other officers involved were slightly injured by thrown ly successful. Hernandez and his partner and refused orders to drop the weapon. Her injury was not life-threatening. 
In 2008, the Times reported Hernandez shot an 18-year-old assault suspect who tried to flee, then pointed a gun at Hernandez and another officer. Hernandez shot the man once, wounding him. 
Beck voiced support for Hernandez in an interview with the Times. Citing privacy laws, Beck would not discuss the past shootings or any details of Hernandez’s personnel file. He told the Times that Hernandez's performance should not come under suspicion because of pre­vious shootings. 
Detective Gus Villanueva said he had no immediate comment when reached by The Associated Press early Thursday. 
At the community meeting, a crowd of more than 300 packed a school in the Westlake neigh­borhood where Jamines was shot to death Sunday by Hernandez after he allegedly lunged toward the officer with a knife after threatening two women. 
The crowd jeered Beck when he defended officers by reading a witness's account of how Jamines threatened her. 
Beck said the witness, a neigh­borhood resident who was not named, told three bicycle offi­cers that a man with blood on his hands tried to stab her and pregnant woman next to her. 
As the woman ran away, she heard the three officers telling the suspect to drop the knife, then she heard three or four shots, turned around and saw Jamines on the sidewalk, Beck said. 
“She referred to the officers as her angels who had descended from heaven to save her life and that of the pregnant lady,” Beck said. 
The crowd exploded when they heard the witness's account. One man in the audi­ence called out that the story sounded like it was made up in Hollywood. 
Beck and city officials sched­uled the meeting to counter rumors and reach out to resi­dents of the neighborhood just west of downtown where Jamines was shot. 
Sunday’s killing turned into a rallying point as community members, aided by outsiders, took to the streets three consec­



Embryonic stem cell funding allowed for now 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — The govern­ment may resume funding of embryonic stem cell research for now, an appeals court said Thursday, but the short-term approval may be of little help to research scientists caught in a legal battle that has just begun. 
It is far from certain that scien­tists actually will continue to get federal money as they struggle to decide what to do with research that is hard to start and stop. 
After U.S. District Court Judge Royce Lamberth issued a prelimi­nary order barring the funding on Aug. 23, the National Institutes of Health suspended work on fund­ing new research projects on embryonic stem cells. While NIH didn't immediately comment Thursday on the temporary stay from the appeals court, the gov­ernment's process for approving these grants is unlikely to resume before a final court resolution. 
With appeals, that could be many months off. 
“No way this would be a scien­tific reprieve,” said Patrick Clemins of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. 
Scientists who already have received taxpayer money for stem cell experiments can continue their work until their dollars run out, but 22 projects that were due to get yearly checks in September were told after Lamberth's order that they'd have to find other money. Most of the researchers have multiple sources of funding and are working now to separate what they can and can't continue, Clemins said. 
Medical researchers value stem cells because they are master cells that can turn into any tissue of the body. Research eventually could lead to cures for spinal cord injuries, Parkinson’s disease and other ailments, they believe. 
The Obama administration is asking the appeals court in Washington to strike down a pre­liminary injunction by Lamberth that blocked the funding. Lamberth left little doubt that he is inclined to issue a final order barring that funding, but he has yet to issue that ruling, which inevitably will set off a new round of appeals. 
Lamberth concluded that those who challenged the government support had demonstrated a strong likelihood of success in their lawsuit. He said the clear intent of a law passed by Congress was to prohibit federal spending on research in which a human embryo is destroyed. 
Steven H. Aden, senior legal counsel for the Alliance Defense Fund, which is involved with that lawsuit, said after Thursday's action, “The American people should not be forced to pay for even one more day of experi­ments that destroy human life, have produced no real-world treatments and violate an existing federal law.” 
Lamberth rejected the adminis­tration's request to let funding continue while it appealed his preliminary order, but the three-member appeals panel disagreed on Thursday. It is suspending Lamberth’s ruling for now. 
The appeals judges pointedly cautioned that their three-para­graph order “should not be con­strued in any way as a ruling on the merits.” 
“Nothing has really changed, because all issues are still out there and still unresolved,” said Dr. Norman Fost, director of the bioethics program at the University of Wisconsin at Madison, who was on the National Academy of Sciences committee that wrote the first national guidelines on embryonic human stem cells. 

Samuel B. Casey, part of the legal team representing those who filed the lawsuit, said, "We expect that when the court of appeals reviews the merits of the case, it will agree with the logic that led Judge Lamberth to issue the preliminary injunction." 
He added, “We remain confi­dent in our case against the unlawful, unethical and unneces­sary federal funding of experi­mentation on human embryos.” 
Justice Department spokesman Charles Miller said the appeals court order “will allow this impor­tant, lifesaving research to contin­ue while we present further argu­ments to the court in the weeks to come.” 
John Robertson, a University of Texas professor who specializes in law and bioethics, said Thursday's appeals court order doesn’t relieve researchers work­ing on multiyear projects of the uncertainty of whether there will be funding beyond this year. 

The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 12 Friday, September 10, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Saint Mary’s parking 
To park or not to park; that is the question. 
So far, I have been able to keep my record clean. No silly mistakes in high school, or instances of being in the wrong place at the wrong time. And, I hope to continue this tradition throughout my life. 
This may make me sound slight­ly boring, or 

Ashley Charnley 
like I don’t take risks, but I do 
try to live on the SaintM ary’s edge. However, Editor for the sake of the future job hunt, I try not to fall of the cliff. 
There will be one thing though, tarnishing my good name when I leave Saint Mary’s, and that is my inability to master the art of parking on this campus. 
I have read intricate texts on mar­keting and sat through physics 

classes and grasped what was being taught. However, trying to memorize and put into the practice the con­tents of the Saint Mary’s parking brochure has proven too difficult. 
I will take to my grave a myriad of infractions, including the recent lack of the hangtag necessary to grace the College’s lots as an off-campus senior. 
So, even after three years of going to class, living and breathing Saint Mary’s, I am apparently not wel­come to park four rubber tires on its asphalt without a tiny parking pass. 
I sound bitter, but honestly I do understand the reasoning. It’s for safety precautions among other things. That way when suspicious cars are on campus, security will know the difference. 
The problem is, I still don’t know the safe place to park. (At least that’s what I like to tell myself.) 
I suppose the real purpose of this column is a search for camaraderie. 
I know most of the women here at Saint Mary’s have been weighed down with groceries on a 30 degree night and all you want to do is park a few feet closer. But, alas, the back two rows of Regina are full and you are banished to Angela. Or, if you’re like me, you park anyway and pay the price in the morning. 
I realize, short of paving over alumni green, there isn’t a whole lot that can be done about the issue. However, a little flexibility would be nice. 
I wanted to go off campus so I could have a kitchen and the washer and dryer are nice, but honestly, one of the things my roommate and I rave about most, is the fact that at the end of the day or a trip to the grocery, we get to park seven feet from our door. 
I love Saint Mary’s, the classes, the buildings. I love everything about the place. 
There is only one thing left that would make it perfect; valet park­ing. I’m sure there are plenty of Belles out there who agree with me. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 

Building positive momentum at the Michigan game 

It’s safe to say that Notre Dame fans and students have entered each of the past three seasons with at least mod­erately high hopes for the Irish football team. Eternal optimism, even in the face of mediocre seasons, has become one of the hallmarks of Notre Dame fandom. 
The past few years, though, that optimism has come crashing back down in the form of underachieving teams. 
It’s gotten to the point where even that famous Notre Dame optimism was slightly tempered entering this season. Questions abounded about how new coach Brian Kelly would adapt his style, and even the most hopeful pundits penciled in the Irish for only eight or nine wins. Lou Holtz didn’t even pre­dict Notre Dame to go to the national championship game this year. 
However, after a convincing, if not overpowering, win against Purdue in the opener, the hope and optimism is starting to permeate campus once again. Even if the team hasn’t completely adapted to Kelly’s system yet, the pieces are clearly in place. 
Most have adopted a “wait and see” approach with regard to Kelly, but what he showed on Saturday demon­strated that maybe, just maybe, Notre Dame finally got this coaching hire right. 
Of course, it’s only one game. Brian Kelly will define his legacy at Notre Dame on a week-to-week basis, and this week’s Michigan game is just another stepping stone. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Keenan is worthy 
As a proud alumnus of Keenan Hall, Class of 1990, I would like to respond to Mr. Nathaniel Gotcher’s letter (Sept. 7, “Stanford and Keenan”) suggesting that Keenan Hall (and Stanford Hall) are not worthy of renovation. 
His letter suggests that these reinforced concrete struc­tures were meant to temporary and not built to last. He apparently bases this argument on the fact that they needed new windows and are therefore not sustainable. Yet, all the buildings he mentions in the immediate vicinity that meet his standards of acceptability have had their windows replaced and plenty of other renovations done to them. In fact, even our cherished Main Building has had significant renovations to it over the years. 
If Mr. Gotcher believes that sustainable means that reg­ular upkeep and maintenance is not required, he has a lot to learn about architecture and how buildings are put together. Mr. Gotcher suggests that a dorm should be easi­ly navigable, sturdy and pleasing on the eyes. Keenan (and Stanford) certainly meet two out of his three criteria and while Keenan may not be the prettiest, it isn’t the ugliest on campus, and it makes up for it in the tremen­dous contributions to student leadership, campus life and intramural sports it has provided over the years — not to mention it has one of the best basements on campus! 
Maybe the men of Keenan are driven to excellence to make up for the apparent architectural error that they cherish living in. Please note that this is also the first and last time that I will defend Stanford Hall. 
Patrick Perrella 
alumnus Class of 1990 Sept. 9 
Players and coaches have been talking about remaining on an even keel, and that the game against the Wolverines is just another game. No matter what they say, though, emotions will certainly be running high on Saturday. Those in the stands will remember the feeling of thrashing Michigan in the pouring rain in 2008, and the heartbreak of a last-second loss a season ago. 
A loss against the Wolverines would not 
doom Notre Dame’s season, just as a victory, 
no matter how decisive, would not secure the 
Irish a spot in a BCS bowl game. What the 
Irish do have a chance to do Saturday is build 
on the positive momentum they created 
against the Boilermakers. 
As the student body chanted Kelly’s name after the win, it was clear that the new regime has bought a certain amount of good faith. There is a difference, however, between a win against Purdue — an in-state rival, but a team that the Irish have beaten regularly in the recent past — and a victory over Michigan, arguably Notre Dame’s second biggest rival. The Wolverines looked just as impressive in their first game, and have the talent to be a nationally ranked team. 
With both teams knocking on the door, it’s likely that Saturday’s winner will wind up ranked in the top 25. If that team turns out to be the Irish, that will be just anoth­er step in the long process of turning eternal hope into tangible results. 



‘The Cinderblock Palace of Love’ 
In his Sept. 7 letter (“Stanford and Keenan”), Mr. Gotcher advocates the demolition of Stanford Hall because it lacks the “strength, utility and beauty” embodied by the other dorms on campus that are “navigable, sturdy and pleasing on the eyes”. 
As to the first charge, Stanford Hall is four floors with hall­ways running North-to-South and East-to-West, and a base­ment — a layout only a Michigan fan would have trouble navi­gating. As to the second, I doubt you’ll find any cinderblocks on campus sturdier than those in “The Cinderblock Palace of Love.” 
And as to the third, Mr. Gotcher has judged this book entirely by its cover. Had he taken the time to get past the “ugly” cover on Stanford Hall and read up on its history he would have found an inner beauty worthy of the new windows. I know I can speak on behalf of my friends that lived there with me, and most likely all alumni of Stanford Hall, when I say that some of the best years of our lives were spent living in Stanford Hall and to us it is one of the most beautiful buildings on campus. I sincerely hope the University continues to spend the money necessary to keep Stanford Hall a part of the campus for as long as possible. 
However, I agree with Mr. Gotcher regarding Keenan. It is a vastly inferior dorm and, given the waste created by demoli­tion, would best serve the campus by being converted into stor­age space for the glorious residents of Stanford Hall. 
Go Irish! Beat Wolverines! 
Mark Pfizenmayer 
alumnus Class of 2004 Sept. 9 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“If you think you can win, you canwin. Faith is necessary to victory.” 
William Hazlitt English essayist 


Submit a Letter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Build up your weaknesses untilthey become your strong points.” 
Knute Rockne Former Championship-winningNotre Dame football coach 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
Friday, September 10, 2010 page 13 
An intoxicating Christian 9/11 remembrance 
Our nation was founded one outpost at a time with each settlement promot­ing a variety of community ideals and freedoms as divergent as each resi­dent’s background or heritage. One need only recall the American Civil War’s strife, review mid-20th Century civil rights move­ments or merely assess our current national political divide for proof that community stan-

Gary Caruso 
dards differ drasti­cally between Capitol neighborhoods and Comments regions of the United States. Fortunately for Americans, our Constitution equalizes our societal rule of law by excluding extreme interpretations that may limit freedoms based upon bigotry. 
Christianity, supposedly founded on the call for peaceful coexistence by Jesus, rose one martyr at a time based on tribal interpretations of biblical gospels. As centuries passed, religious sects as well fell prey to varying regional thought so that their leaders ruled in ways that eventually excluded or limited others whom they found in violation of their decrees. But unlike a nation with one high court that ulti­mately interprets its ruling laws, reli­gious organizations simply split further into denominations more willing to accept whatever narrow principles guide their leaders. So it should come as no surprise that both American political and religious leaders today routinely pound their chests with all-knowing certainty as they espouse their specific agendas. 
One such omnificent fundamentalist Christian Florida pastor, Terry Jones of the Gainesville 50-family member Dove World Outreach Center, has declared tomorrow an “International Burn a Koran Day” to “reveal the nature of Islam.” While most Americans observe a somber, reverent day of unity tomor­row, Jones relies upon an inspiration based on past experiences to make his unique fiery 9/11 statement. Many, including General David Patraeus, top 
U.S. and NATO Commander in Afghanistan, urged Jones to weigh how detrimental and dangerous conse­quences may be on U.S. troops fighting abroad should Jones create an inter­national Islamic outrage. 
Throughout the week, Jones has acted coy, basking in his world-wide media attention. Yet, knowing his life’s story may help shed light on the ori­gins of his beliefs and inspirations. Jones worked as a missionary in Europe for 30 years after leaving a career as a hotel manager. He current­ly presides over a 20-acre compound where he oftentimes is seen walking with a pistol strapped to his hip. Jones recorded an online video series enti­tled the “Braveheart Show,” based on Mel Gibson’s movie “Braveheart,” to preach anti-Islamic sermons to a glob­al audience larger that his tiny congre­gation. 
Jones authored the publication, “Islam Is of the Devil,” whose title phrase also adorns several billboards on his church property. Jones admits that he first used the phrase last year, but since 2002 Jones marked 9/11 anniversaries with sermons about Islam and what he believes are the faith’s inherent dangers. Earlier this week, radio programs broadcast Jones announcing his motivations. He rhetor­ically described Islam by saying, “We have a new way to stand up to fron­tierism,” referring to his plan to burn Korans on Saturday. When asked about a potential Islamic global out­rage images of burning Korans would incite, Jones replied, “To offend them is the lesser of two evils.” 
Jones’ plans are reminiscent of the type of slick charlatan Burt Lancaster epitomized as the movie character, Elmer Gantry. Moreover, Jones seems to be one of those so-called “Christians” who have become too intoxicated with their own limited, personalized interpretations of the gospels. His is the rogue type of venge­ful reactionary effort repeatedly seen throughout history in the name of cleansing society, but is no different than the burning of a cross, burning a witch at the stake or throughout the Crusades, burning a village to the ground. 
In time, the white-hot fifteen minutes of fame enjoyed this week by Jones, who also personally describes the spot­light as “getting the word out more than we ever realized,” will fade in most quarters. However, a lingering problem will remain harbored in the hearts of many who have also fallen prey to our modern, intoxicating way of life — those who suffer a short attention span, need instant communi­cations through exotic electronic devices, hold an unwillingness to understand another’s interpretation of freedom and routinely skew others with stereotypical simplicity. 
Most have routinely commemorated the heinous attacks on the World Trade Center towers each September 11th with high reverence, while some who personally suffered losses on that infamous day hold the anniversary sacred. But this year, on the ninth anniversary of the tragedy, the memo­ry of innocent lives lost has already been marred by what should be called “Cowboy Ministering.” Following the gospels means that rogue pastors must wean themselves from the intoxicating comforts and testosterone today’s soci­ety promotes in favor of the pacifistic love demonstrated 20 centuries ago by a rogue profit. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
American Muslims this 9/11 
Three events are coming together in relation to Islam on the upcoming anniversary of 9/11: The Koran burn­ing organized by a small Christian congregation in Florida, the ongoing 
controversy over  
the Ground Zero mosque and the  Mahan Mirza  
annual Islamic fes­ 
tival of Eid to mark  Guest  
the culmination of  columnist  
the holy month of  

Ramadan. Each of these issues war­rants a different response from Muslims. With respect to Eid, we should be flexible. Regarding the mosque (which is not really a “mosque”), we should stand firm. As for the Koran burning, we should extend forgiveness. 
Eid will fall either on Sept. 10 or 11, depending on how a local community interprets the rules for “moonsight­ing.” This could lead to the misunder­standing that Muslims are actually celebrating on 9/11. The Islamic year, based on the cycles of the moon, is 10 or 11 days shorter than our regular year, which makes the occurrence of a holiday on the anniversary of 9/11 pure coincidence. Having been over­shadowed by the other two controver­sies, there has been little hullabaloo about this in the media. 
In principle, Muslims should plan their celebrations to avoid any per­ception of conflict with the commemo­ration of 9/11. If necessary, Muslims should even consider moving public festivities (other than the ritual Eid prayer, of course) to another day. American Muslims often delay their celebrations if Eid falls in the middle of the week. Such a move, therefore, would neither be unprecedented nor out of touch with Islamic teachings. Love of God and neighbor are common elements of the Abrahamic traditions. According to a saying of the Prophet Muhammad: “None of you truly believes unless you love for your neighbor what you love for youself.” However, Muslims should not be scru­tinized above other communities. Here at Notre Dame, 9/11 is also “game day.” Festive mood will abound on an otherwise somber date. We will all commemorate, but “Go Irish!” and “Eid Mubarak!” 
Regarding the mosque controversy, let us consider the facts. It is not a mosque, but a cultural center that will be open to members of all faiths. The building is not on Ground Zero proper, but a couple of blocks away. There has been a mosque in the neighbor­hood serving local Muslims for many years. There are hundreds of thou­sands of Muslims living in New York, including men and women in uniform, families of 9/11 victims and first responders. The Imam of the pro­posed center, Feisal Abdul Rauf, rep­resents the US State Department abroad and has a niece in the Army who has served in Iraq. 
Opposition to building the cultural center is deeply offensive and hurtful to American Muslims. Like their com­patriots, they pay taxes, love their country and live as law abiding citi­zens. Discourses that speak of Muslims as somehow violating American “sacred space” or conflate mosques with terror and tragedy are extremely troubling. To put it in per­spective, some questions that need to be asked of the detractors are: Should the mosque in downtown DC also be moved because of its proximity to the Pentagon? How far is far enough? If the Ground Zero “mosque” would be a front or symbol for terrorism, should mosques be allowed anywhere? Should Lower Manhattan be declared a Muslim-free zone, or should Muslim presence only be tolerated so long as they remain collectively invisible? 
Fortunately, there has been a slew of support for Muslims and their right to build cultural centers and houses of worship, starting with the leadership of New York’s (Jewish) mayor Bloomberg, and America’s (Christian) president Obama. Such support, along with the voices of countless interfaith leaders and organizations, is what makes our nation great. Ultimately, what we are witnessing says less about Islam and more about America. 
This brings me to the third issue at hand — the Koran burning in Florida. It is heartwarming that many Americans have condemned this deliberately provocative act. Muslims should embrace this outpouring of support and unequivocally reject rash responses that may take place in their name. This is an opportunity for Muslims to fall back on the highest of virtues to be found in their religious tradition. Contrary to popular belief, the Koran exhorts Muslims to respond to provocations with kindness, “so that enmity might transform into lov­ing friendship.” (41:34) The Prophet Muhammad is also reported to have said: “The most virtuous behavior is to engage those who sever relations, to give to those who withhold from you, and to forgive those who wrong you.” 
Since the 9/11 attacks, a faulty nar­rative has prevailed about Islam and the U.S. led war on terror that has tacitly maligned all Muslims as guilty by association. No amount of informa­tion or serious analysis has been able to alter this perception. The fact that Muslims have been issuing condemna­tions of terrorism ad nauseum, or that polls have shown that Muslims (including Saudis and Iranians) are no more likely to justify the killing of innocents than “ordinary Americans,” has done little or nothing to lift the shadow of suspicion from the collec­tive body of Muslims. However, in the face of unprecedented and over­whelming support amidst the recent controversies, there is reason to believe that change is in the air. It is happening with the mainstreaming of Muslims in American society. As we mourn the losses of a decade ago, from the depths of the dark abyss that was 9/11, I see glimmers of hope. 
Mahan Mirza is an assistant professor of Arabic and Islamic studies in the Department of Classics and is also a fellow of the Kroc Institute of International Peace Studies. He can be contacted at mmirza@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 
Scene
page 14 Friday, September 10, 2010 

By WARD PETTIBONE 
Scene Writer 
Off the top of the head, what do Notre Dame stu­dents like most? The Grotto, perhaps, or Irish flags? Whatever first comes to mind, chances are it is included in Bob Kessler’s new book, “Things Notre Dame Students Like.” 
Kessler, a 2009 graduate of the University, has assembled a list of 100 things Notre Dame students like, ranging from the straightforward (#25 “Planning things,” #35 “Making t-shirts,” #71 “Viewpoint wars”) to the humorous (#52 “Talking about squirrels,” #78 “Feeling strongly about New Jersey,” #86 “Being overly proud of their original ID”). Based on his blog, www.thingsnotredamestu­dentslike.com, which has been in existence since 2009, the book expands upon the idea with new sub-lists (“Things Notre Dame Couples Like,” “Things Coach Brey Likes”) and plenty of charts and diagrams (a map of the U.S. according to Admissions, a pie chart of the “Notre Dame Student Dress Code”). 
Kessler writes 
with a wry humor that will make any alumni or current student smile. Readers In addition to replacing out-will likely nod and dated references for publication smile knowingly in the book (for example #19, at Kessler’s obser-originally “The OC and other vations about The teen dramas,” is now “Cable in Shirt: “Despite the dorm rooms”), Kessler re-wrote consistently many of the original articles to ridiculous look match the style of prose that and fit of The had evolved over a year of blog-Shirt, Notre Dame ging. After reaching out to the Students will con-authors of several Notre Dame tinue to wear it,” books, Kessler received help Parietals: “Deep from alumni to publish the down most Notre book. He observed, “Notre Dame Students Dame people are so willing to actually like pari-help one another.” etals,” and Rudy: For Kessler, the transition “Rudy’s plight from blog to book was a turning doesn’t really point, marking the end of his mirror the path of experience as a Notre Dame any current Notre student. As an alumnus, his Dame students.” advice to current students can 
In writing best be summed up as: diversi­
“Things Notre fy. Dame Students Notre Dame has so much to Like,” Kessler offer that if one is restricted to tried to answer one area of activity, they risk four questions: missing out on some of the best “What is this parts of this wonderful place. thing?” “Why do He worries that Notre Dame is 




Notre Dame stu­dents like it?” “How is this different from other schools?” and “Why is this an important aspect of Notre Dame culture?” His goal was to depict the things that make Notre Dame unique, and meas­ured his success based on the response to an article 
– “If people respond to it, talk about it, or comment on it, then I know I did a good job,” he says. “Any entry that has the capability to incite a Viewpoint war is definitely a good one.” 
English in China, and now does volunteer work and freelance writing while continuing to apply for full -time positions. 
Kessler considers himself “retired from writing about Notre Dame,” but acknowl ­edges “there’s always a chance I’ll pull a Brett Favre.” 
“Things Notre Dame Students Like” is a well-written, funny and sharply perceptive book about the culture of our beloved school, highly recommended for alum­ni, current students and anyone curious about what exactly makes our home under the Dome so special. 
MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scene
Friday, September 10, 2010 page 15 

through now. 
By STEPHANIE DEPREZ “It’s a great story to start with,” Black said. “It’s the original love story. Love trian-
Scene Writer gles, fairies, danger and passion!” 
It is with passion that these actors approach the show. The clear favorite of this Five Actors from the London Stage graced the stage in Washington Hall Wednesday troupe is its comedy, specifically the comedy of the mechanicals, the peasants within and presented a show all their own. Without a director, costumer or choreographer, the show who decide to put on a play of their own, and its star Bottom, who ends up 
these actors epitomize the raw relationship between the writer and the stage. getting mixed into all the fairy business after being turned into a donkey. 
Armed with nothing but the immortal words of Shakespeare, the actors work out, Within these scenes the actors excel, and are unafraid to push the envelope that in their own fashion, how to put on a show. 
will have you laughing out of shock and embar-Then they travel to universities throughout rassment as much as devilish wit (which makes the United States to educate the communities one realize just how clever Shakespeare’s words 
about the Bard. really are). 
When they rambled up to the stage on There are moments in the show when it opening night of “A Midsummer Night’s seems as though we have come upon an extend-Dream” Wednesday, they brought energy. ed actor’s game, or moments that linger a bit 
Since there is minimal costuming and props, too long, but such moments are nearly forgotten it is the slight modifications in character — a when the next moment of comedy comes up. thrusted hip, a pouty lip — that indicate who What’s to be admired about this troupe is that, an actor is playing at a given moment. The since the actors own their actions, they relish ease with which they oscillate between per-them. The misfortune of a scene requiring six sonas is something to be admired, even when players is embraced, and turned into a prime one player is on for two characters at once. opportunity for a vaudevillian display of physi-
These moments are particularly amusing, cal comedy. because suddenly we are forced to accept the “We had all sorts of discussions,” Black said 
ridiculous pose of an actor having a conver-about how to present the show. “Midsummer sation with himself (and talking to the glasses has bestiality, first passions, and everything he just took off). about it is raunchy.” 
The selection of this semester’s play is fortunate for us, an audience that is most The show is a faithful display of all that Shakespeare revels in — physical action, often comprised of students having their first Shakespearience. visual tricks and clever interpretation. The best part, though, is the shear joy with 
“Everyone knows ‘Midsummer,’” said Devon Black, who plays Helena (among oth-which the actors approach the show. They alone make the show, and they rise to the ers) in the show. “It seems to be the first Shakespeare play everyone sees.” occasion. Truly Bardiful. 
The show has been chosen years in advance to give universities a chance to plan for it in their curriculum, and it is our good fortune that Midsummer is coming Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 

By DECLAN SULLIVAN 
Scene Writer 
At 9:15 p.m. Friday night, I walked into a nonde­script room on the 2nd floor of LaFortune, not real­ly knowing what to expect. I was told that me and a few other students would be interviewing comedi­ans Mike Birbiglia and Michael Ian Black here in five minutes, but I hadn’t received any other infor­mation aside from that. 
I was surprised, then, when I saw a whole video camera/talk show setup going on inside the room — apparently an interviewer from Scholastic and I would be just sitting in on an NDtv interview with the opportunity — if there was time — to ask a few questions after the interview concluded. 
I was bummed, but regardless I took my seat next to the camera and waited for the comedians to enter. 
After what seemed like an eternity, they finally entered. Michael and Mike were both extremely friendly, introducing themselves personally to everyone in the room and asking for our names. 
Not only did this ease the tension in the room — all the students were a bit nervous — but also it gave me happy moment No. 1 of the interview. 
When Mike Birbiglia came over to shake my hand, I introduced myself prompting a response of “Hey … Declan? Like D-U-C-K-L-I-A-N?” Everyone laughed, I corrected him, and then I proceed to gig­gle like a schoolgirl on the inside, knowing that one of my comedic heroes now has my ridiculous-sounding name ingrained into his head. 
The NDtv interview started and while Mike and Michael were hilarious, playing off each other — often at the expense of the NDtv interviewers — for the most part it was uneventful for my Scholastic counterpart and me. 
Our time to shine came after the NDtv interview ended. Both comedians had to get to the quad to perform, but there was enough time for each of us to ask one or two questions. Unfortunately, a dis­proportionate amount of this time was spent dis­cussing the lack of microphones for the NDtv inter­view, the low quality of my audio recording equip­ment — my broken iPhone — or the possibility of including live video in The Observer newspaper — unlikely. 
But I did get the opportunity to ask one question I was proud of to Birbiglia: “You’re an interesting comedian in that your jokes aren’t usually just one liners; they’re stories. You’re also on the Moth, NPR, This American Life; do you view yourself more as a comedian or as a storyteller when you’re doing your shows?” to which he answered “I think I’m a comedian … pretty sure. I kind of evolved into being a storyteller because I was doing a lot of col­lege shows — like this — with an hour, hour and a half of material. What I found was that when you do that much stand-up comedy, if it doesn’t have some kind of conclusion, ark, or build to it, then it can be a little bit directionless. 
That led me to tell more stories, which led me to the Moth, which led me to This American Life … started working with Ira Glass, and now what’s sort of developed is that I’m a storytelling comedian. It was a long way to get to that. 
That’s over a hundred words for one question. Bam. Not quite the interview I imagined, but bam. 
Contact Declan Sullivan at dsulliv9@nd.edu 

MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 
MLB 
Moreland’s RBIs keep Rangers at top of AL West 
Tigers hand White Sox their third loss in a row; Rockies complete four-game series sweep against Reds, 6-5 
since beating Boston on July 16, loaded jam in the third when 
Associated Press 
including allowing a season-Ian Kinsler struck out and 
TORONTO — Colby Lewis won high nine runs in his last out-Michael Young grounded into a for the first time since mid-July, ing, a Sept. 4 loss at Minnesota. double play. Mitch Moreland drove in three But the left-hander, who came The Rangers broke through runs and the Texas Rangers in 1-3 with a 12.27 ERA in four with two runs in the fourth. beat the Toronto Blue Jays 4-2 career starts against the Blue David Murphy scored from sec-on Thursday night. Jays, was sharp over 6 1-3 ond on Nelson Cruz’s single to 
The Rangers, who lead the AL innings, allowing one run and shallow left when Travis Snider West, won their second straight five hits, four of them singles. bobbled the ball and was after losing nine of 12. He walked two and struck out charged with an error. 
Moreland finished 1 for 2 eight. Moreland followed with a fly with a sacrifice fly and an Lewis left two batters after ball to center, but catcher John intentional walk while Vladimir Overbay’s homer. Clay Rapada Buck dropped Dwayne Wise’s Guerrero went 3 for 4 and pitched one inning, O’Day got throw, allowing Guerrero to scored twice. two outs in the eighth and score. 
Toronto’s Jose Bautista hit his Neftali Feliz closed it out in the The Rangers chased Hill after major league-leading 44th ninth for his 35th save in 38 Guerrero singled and Cruz dou­home run, a solo shot off chances. bled in the sixth. Moreland Darren O’Day in the eighth. Making his first start since lined left-hander Jesse Lyle Overbay hit a solo homer April 25, 2009, when he was Carlson’s second pitch off the off Lewis in the seventh, his with San Diego, Blue Jays right-first base bag and down the line 18th. hander Shawn Hill (0-1) for a two-run double. 
The Blue Jays lead the majors allowed four runs, three with 218 homers this season, earned, and eight hits in 5 1-3 Tiger 6, White Sox 3 including an ML-high 122 at innings. He walked one and Johnny Damon had a season-home. Toronto has homered in struck out two. high four hits and scored two 11 consecutive games, hitting Hill, who was born in subur-runs, helping the Detroit Tigers 23 in that span. ban Toronto, underwent his beat Chicago Thursday and 
The attendance was 10,658, second elbow ligament replace-handing the White Sox their because they’re 19 games ground into an inning-ending the third straight game Toronto ment surgery last June. After third straight loss. under .500 on the road. double play with the bases has drawn fewer than 11,000 being released by San Diego in The White Sox fell six games loaded. Gonzalez grounded a fans. October, he signed with the behind idle Minnesota in the AL Rockies 6, Reds 5 103 mph fastball right to short-
Lewis (10-12) had gone 0-7 Blue Jays in January. Central, their largest deficit Chris Nelson stole home in stop Paul Janish. with a 5.07 ERA in nine starts Hill survived a no-out, bases-since June 17. the eighth inning to send the Masset entered to pitch the 
Detroit has won six of eight to Colorado Rockies to a victory eighth and Troy Tulowitzki led get back above .500 for the first over the Cincinnati Reds on off with his 18th homer and time since July 31. Thursday, completing a four-sixth in seven games. Giambi 
Rick Porcello (9-11) gave up game series sweep and extend-followed with a walk and was three runs on four hits and no ing their winning streak to sea-replaced by Nelson. walks in eight innings to win his son-best seven games. First baseman Joey Votto, fourth straight start. Ryan With one out and runners on also in the running for MVP Perry pitched the ninth for his the corners, Reds reliever Nick award, then made a critical second save. Masset (3-4) thought Colorado error on Melvin Mora’s slow 
Gavin Floyd (10-12) allowed was going to try a double steal bouncer. He charged the six runs over six innings. He so he stepped off the rubber grounder, but his underhand gave up 13 hits, all of which and whirled to second. Nelson flip to Masset covering first was were singles. broke for home on the play and high and wide. Nelson went to 
Chicago’s Alex Rios hit a two-scored easily, giving the Rockies third on the play, setting up the run homer in the fourth. a 6-5 lead. 15th swipe of home in Rockies 
The Tigers didn’t hit one over Huston Street allowed a lead-history and first since Matt the fence, or even in a gap, but off single to Ramon Hernandez Holliday in 2006. methodically found holes to in the bottom half, then struck The Rockies have won 10 score twice in the first, two out the side for his 17th save in straight games against the Reds more in the third, one in the 21 save opportunities. at Coors Field dating to Aug. fourth and a sixth run in the Drew Stubbs hit a two-run 23, 2008, and 19 of their past seventh inning. homer in Cincinnati’s four-run 22 games overall against 
Floyd became the first pitcher second, helping the Reds build Cincinnati, including 14 of the to give up 13 hits — without an a 5-0 lead. But Colorado past 17. extra-base hit — since James chipped away at the deficit Matt Belisle (7-5) recorded Baldwin did it on Aug. 29, against starter Travis Wood two outs to get win. 2001, pitching for the Los then broke through against the Cincinnati got off to a nice Angeles Dodgers against the Reds’ bullpen. start against Jason Hammel, Colorado Rockies. Jason Giambi hit a two-run who pitched seven innings. 
Damon had his first of four homer in the fourth, Dexter Brandon Phillips singled, stole hits in the first as Detroit took a Fowler added an RBI double in second and advanced to third 2-0 lead. the fifth and pinch-hitter on a wild pitch before scoring 
Ryan Raburn and Jhonny Jonathan Herrera drove in a on Votto’s swinging bunt in the Peralta each had two RBIs as run with a grounder in the sev-first. the Tigers won for the ninth enth, making it 5-4. Hernandez hit an RBI double time in 10 games at Comerica Colorado almost went in front and scored on Janish’s single in Park, where they are 46-26. in the seventh but left-hander the second. After Wood sacri-The Tigers trail the Twins by Aroldis Chapman got MVP can-ficed, Stubbs hit his 16th homer 12½ games in large part didate Carlos Gonzalez to and first since Aug. 14. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
Chess Lessons: OPEN HOUSE Sunday Sept 12th 
2:00-4:00, 217 Cripe St., SouthFOR SALE USCF and FIDE (International Bend 46637. WANTED FOR RENT PERSONAL 
Chess Federation) 
Just north of Saint Mary's, Notre BEAUTIFUL HOME ON ST. JOE Master, 2010 Indiana State Chess Dame and Holy Cross. Join a fun, fast growing co called Lakeside Cozy furnished 3 bed-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't RIVER, 56279 Prim Rose Circle, Champion and coach of InvisableShield by ZAGG. room cottage 30 minutes from go it alone. Notre Dame has many Elkhart 46516. 1036 sq ft, 3 BR 2 BA. Beautiful South Bend. Tranquil beach com-resources in place to assist you. If 
1997/8 K-8 National Championship updated interior. $105,000. Tina Sales Associate munity. you or someone you love needs Private location and gorgeous view. team Dennis Monokroussos is Vise, 574-252-9849 wanted for the kiosk in the mall. confidential support or assistance, Easy commute to ND. offering lessons to players of all ——————————————— One bath, fireplace, washer / dryer, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 
ages and levels OPEN HOUSE Sunday Sept 12th full kitchen. or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more OPEN HOUSE Sunday, September 2:00-4:00, 1614 Cedar, South Bend information, visit ND's website at:
LOST AND FOUND
12th 2:00-4:00 pm. 420 ft seawall, (local and online). 46617, 5-min from ND, 1532 sq ft, 3 Security deposit/ references http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. 4500 sf finished, 4 BR, 3.5 BA. BR 2BA. requested.708-205-4547 ——————————————— Many amenities. Please contact Lost Friday, 9/3, ——————————————— If you or someone you care about FREE BOAT RIDES AT OPEN Beautiful condition with amazing Apartments for Rent Near Airport, has been sexually assaulted, we HOUSE. $579,500 FC Tucker historicchess@comcast.net updated kitchen and bath, finished black Casio camera in blue belt clip on Busline 1 Bdr. $600 and 2 Bdr. can help. For more information, visit Maplewoods Realty Group 574-basement. $184,900, Christine carry case $725 All Util. Included Call Mike Notre Dame's website: 250-7713. for rates and information. Tirotta, 574-210-8269. 574-292-1572 574-250-0191 http://csap.nd.edu. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
NFL 
Brady left unscathed by two-car traffic accident 
Associated Press 
BOSTON — New England Patriots quarterback Tom Brady was in a two-vehicle accident near his home Thursday morning but was unhurt and hours later prac­ticed as usual with his team just days before the season opener. 
The crash, at an intersec­tion in Boston’s Back Bay area, knocked over a light pole and sent a passenger in the minivan that collided with Brady’s car to a hospital with injuries that were serious but not considered life-threaten­ing, a police report said. 
A witness told The Associated Press that the two-time Super Bowl MVP was approaching the intersection 
on a green light when his black Audi sedan collided with the minivan. 
The 21-year-old driver of the Mercury Villager minivan, Ludgero Rodrigues, was cited Thursday for failing to stop at a red light, based on witness­es statements, police said. Two other people in the mini­van were able to exit and had no visible injuries, they said. 
The police report, which did not name Brady, said the driv­er of the Audi had no visible injuries and was evaluated by Emergency Medical Services. It said a 49-year-old passen­ger had to be freed with the Jaws of Life and was taken to a hospital. 
Rodrigues’ driver’s license had been suspended at least five times in three years, Massachusetts Registry of Motor Vehicles spokeswoman Ann Dufresne said. Last year, his license was suspended for 180 days after he was arrest­ed for operating under the influence and refused to take a blood-alcohol test, Dufresne said. 
RMV records also show that Rodrigues had been charged with a number of moving and traffic violations. 
A telephone listing for Rodrigues could not immedi­ately be found Thursday. 
Brady’s father had just arrived in Boston from the family’s California home early Thursday and found out about the accident when he got off his flight. 
“I understand he’s fine, but I haven’t talked to him,” Tom Brady Sr. told the AP outside his son’s home three blocks from the accident site. 
Patriots coach Bill Belichick told the team about the acci­dent before practice and said Brady might be a bit late, linebacker Tully Banta-Cain said. 
“I was hoping, obviously, that he was OK, but I saw him walking in. He had a smile on his face, no abrasions, so I think he’s fine,” Banta-Cain said. 
The Patriots open their sea­son at home Sunday against the Cincinnati Bengals. Brady remains in talks with the Patriots about a contract extension and is entering the final year of his current con­tract — a six-year, $57.3 mil­lion deal. 
During the 11-minute por­tion of afternoon practice that reporters were allowed to watch Thursday, Brady, in full uniform with pads and hel­met, stretched as usual with his teammates. Then, as he usually does, he threw soft passes of 20 to 30 yards to teammates. 
“I want to thank the safety personnel for their service, and express our concern and support for the well-being of the occupants of the other vehicle,” Brady’s agent, Don Yee, said in a statement. 
Police responded to Commonwealth Avenue and Gloucester Street around 6:30 
a.m. after reports of an acci­dent, police spokeswoman Elaine Driscoll said. 
One of Brady’s neighbors, a 74-year-old woman who asked that her name not be used for fear of being hounded by reporters, was walking her dogs when she saw the acci­dent. 
She said Brady was travel­ing south on Gloucester and approaching the intersection 
on a green light when his black Audi collided with a fast-moving red Ford Aerostar that was westbound on Commonwealth. 
“The red car went up in the air, sideways. ... The tire was half off,” the woman said. 
Afterward, she said Brady immediately got out of his car. 
The woman had been walk­ing toward the intersection when she saw the cars on their collision course. She took a step backward, tripped on the curb and hit her head, she said. 
She sat next to Brady in an ambulance, but neither was taken to a hospital. She said she did not realize he was the star quarterback until later. 
Bill Barron said he was in his apartment overlooking the intersection when he heard a collision that sounded like “a bolt of lightning.” 

When he looked out the win­dow, he saw the driver of the car picking glass off his clothes and wiping himself off with a towel. He didn’t realize until later that it was Brady. 
“I thought it was some col­lege kid who had crashed up his father’s really nice car,” Barron said. 
Brady then retrieved some items from his car, made a series of phone calls and was picked up by another vehicle, Barron said. 

ATP 
No. 12 Youzhny moves on to Open semifinals 
other half of the draw, No. 2
Associated Press 
Roger Federer will face No. 3 
NEW YORK — The only Novak Djokovic. They won other time Mikhail Youzhny their quarterfinals reached the U.S. Open semifi-Wednesday. nals, in 2006, he got there by Four years ago, Russia’s upsetting Rafael Nadal. Youzhny was unseeded at the 
So guess who might be U.S. Open, but he knocked off waiting for Youzhny now that four seeded players, includ­he is back in the final four at ing Nadal in the quarterfi-Flushing Meadows? That’s nals, before losing to Andy right: Nadal. Roddick in the semifinals. 
The 12th-seeded Youzhny Wawrinka was only the sec-hit fewer aces and fewer win-ond seeded player Youzhny ners, needed treatment on his has faced in the tournament right foot in the fifth set — this year; he beat No. 18 John and still managed to come Isner of the United States in back and beat 25th-seeded the third round. Stanislas Wawrinka of Nothing seemed to rattle Switzerland 3-6, 7-6 (7), 3-6, Youzhny on Thursday. He 6-3, 6-3 in four hours dealt with a deficit, a prob-Thursday. lem with his right foot, and 
“Maybe I was just a bit more of the swirling wind luckier than him,” Youzhny that’s plagued the tourna­said. ment. The wind was gusting 
On Saturday, the 28-year-at more than 15 mph, there old Youzhny will play in his were ominous gray clouds second career major semifi-overhead, and the tempera­nal against No. 1-seeded ture was in the upper 60s. Nadal or No. 8 Fernando That wind made it tough to Verdasco, who were sched-control strokes, and uled to play in the first all-Wawrinka made 71 unforced Spanish quarterfinal in U.S. errors, Youzhny 57. That Open history later Thursday. helped Youzhny overcome Nadal took a 10-0 head-to-Wawrinka’s advantages in head record over Verdasco aces (13-2) and winners (48­into that match. 35). Both men won 154 
In the semifinal on the points. 
PGA GOLF 
Kuchar, Poulter search for top spots in Lemont 
Associated Press 
LEMONT, Ill. — Already having his best season, Matt Kuchar got off to his best start of the year Thursday in the BMW Championship. A mystery season for Tiger Woods took another unexpected turn. 
Kuchar, who won the opening FedEx Cup playoff event to posi­tion himself for the $10 million bonus, wasted no time putting his name atop the leaderboard. He finished with an 18-foot birdie putt for a 7-under 64 and a one-shot lead over Ryan Moore. 
Ian Poulter of England, who has finished in the top 10 only once since winning the Match Play Championship in February, had a 66 for the best round of the afternoon despite opening with a double bogey. 
Woods also started with a dou­ble bogey, but he never got those shots back. 
With one last bogey on the 18th hole, he wound up with a 73 to leave himself in a big hole as he tries to advance to the final stage of the playoffs in Atlanta. It was his highest round at Cog Hill since he opened with a 73 in the 2005 Western Open. It also ended a streak of 11 consecutive rounds in the 60s on the public course in the Chicago suburbs where he has won five times. 
Woods should be used to rough starts by now. His scoring aver­age in the first round this year is 71.08, compared with 68.9 a year ago in the same tourna­ments. 
Even so, it was peculiar to hear him discuss how much ground he has to make up — not against Kuchar, but the finish he needs to get into the top 30 in the FedEx Cup standings and advance to the Tour Championship. 
“As of right now, I’m only five shots back out of that spot,” Woods said. “That’s not bad.” 
Everything is good with Kuchar at the moment, except his voice. He is playing so well — a winner at The Barclays, a tour-high 10 finishes in the top 10 this year — that there’s really nothing left for him to say. 
Not that he had a choice. Kuchar has laryngitis and begged off a series of interviews, letting his score speak for itself. It was the second-best start of his career, and the 21st time in 23 events this year that he broke par in the opening round. 
“Just keep playing,” Kuchar said to one question he felt good enough to answer. “I was driving it well. I was actually doing everything well. It felt very good. Last week was a little bit suspect, and this week I kind of figured some stuff out.” 
Something clicked for Moore when he least expected it. 
LPGA GOLF 
Michelle Wie looks to stay hot against top 15 
Associated Press 
ROGERS, Ark. — With a pair of wins in the last 11 months, Michelle Wie is final­ly turning potential into suc­cess. 
This week, the big-hitting former prodigy will try for her second straight LPGA Tour victory, part of a loaded field at the P&G NW Arkansas Championship. The 54-hole event begins Friday and also includes money leader Jiyai Shin, the defending champi­
on, and world No. 1 Ai Miyazato. 
In fact, 14 of the top 15 players in the Rolex rankings are entered, with only 10th­ranked Paula Creamer (thumb injury) missing. Wie, ranked No. 7, is coming off a victory late last month in the Canadian Women’s Open. 
“I felt like it was a frustrat­ing season for me so far because I felt like I played a lot better than what my scores were,” Wie said. “I guess that happens when you win it — everything just kind of falls into place, and hope­fully it will happen again this week. ... I see all the top play­ers are here. I think it’s really great for the tournament.” 
Wie has made all but two cuts since the start of 2009, her official rookie season, and she earned her first career victory in November at the Lorena Ochoa Invitational. 
She won in Canada by three strokes — her 12th top-10 finish in the last two seasons. 
Last year in Arkansas, out­lasting Angela Stanford and Sun Young Yoo in a sudden-death playoff. This is the fourth year for th4 event at Pinnacle Country Club, and with nothing else on the LPGA Tour schedule until Oct. 7, the sport’s top players have come to northwest Arkansas for the $2 million tourna ­ment, which is presented by Wal-Mart. 



NFL 
Saints down Vikings in tense season opener 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS — Drew Brees and the Saints extended New Orleans’ post-Super Bowl eupho­ria for at least another week and handed Brett Favre a second straight loss in the Louisiana Superdome. 
Brees completed 27 of 36 passes for 237 yards and one touchdown, and the Saints survived a hard-fought season opener for a 14-9 victory Thursday night. 
It wasn’t the most spectacular way to open a title defense, con­sidering it was a rematch of the riveting 2009 NFC title game last January, in which the Saints took an overtime win to advance to their first Super Bowl. 
It was the lowest-scoring victory of the Sean Payton era, which began in 2006. Still, the Saints will take it, considering their defense limited Favre to 171 yards passing and one score. 
Unlike the NFC championship game, the Vikings didn’t fumble and turned the ball over only once on Jonathan Vilma’s interception of Favre, who made an ill-advised throw as Roman Harper hit him on a safety blitz. 
Also unlike their previous meet­ing, the Saints had most of the sta­tistical advantages, outgaining Minnesota 308 yards to 253 and controlling the ball for 33:43, compared to 26:17 for Minnesota. 
New Orleans might have won the game more easily if not for two missed field goals by Garrett Hartley, who kicked the dramatic winning field goal last year. 
Still, New Orleans was able to kneel on the ball to run out most of the last two minutes after Pierre Thomas capped a 71-yard, one-touchdown performance with 10-yard, first-down run right after the 2-minute warning. 
Adrian Peterson, who rushed for 122 yards and three TDs in the last meeting, rushed for 87 yards on 219 carries against New Orleans’ stingy defense. 
Although the game was compet­itive until the final minutes, it hardly lived up to its hype. 
Favre’s comeback from ankle surgery, marking the start of his 20th season, was largely unspec­tacular. Despite being sacked only once and hit not nearly as often, or as hard, as in the NFC title game, he looked out of synch or inaccurate at times. The fact that Minnesota was without star receiver Sidney Rice may have had something to do with that. 
Favre’s best sequence came on Minnesota’s only touchdown drive late in the first half, when he found Vinsanthe Shiancoe on pre­cision down-the-middle comple­tions of 33 and 20 yards, the sec­ond for the Vikings’ only TD. 
That gave Minnesota a 9-7 half­time lead, which the Saints erased on their first drive of the second half. 


MLB 
Phillies sitting pretty in frst 

Just as he cautioned that the 
Associated Press 
race wasn’t over when the 
PHILADELPHIA — Charlie Phillies were trailing Atlanta Manuel scoffed every time by a big margin on July 22, someone mentioned the Manuel isn’t ready to start set-Philadelphia Phillies and wild ting up his formidable post­
card in the same breath. 
When others thought the Phillies may have to settle for a wild-card spot this sea­son, their skip­per never wavered. He insisted his team would never concede the division season rotation until they’ve clinched. 
“Our ultimate goal is “We haven’t 
made the play-
to get to the World 
offs yet,” Series, but frst we’ve Manuel said. 
got to get in.” “We definitely 
want to win our division 
Charlie Manuel 
and we’d like 
Phillies manager to have home-field advan­tage. Our ulti­mate goal is to 
until it ran out of games. 
Here they are now sitting atop the NL East standings with 21 games left. The Phillies have erased a seven-game deficit and have a one-game lead over the Atlanta Braves, who lost 11-4 to St. Louis on Thursday night. 
get to the World Series, but first we’ve got to get in.” 
The Phillies’ pursuit of a fourth straight division title and third consecutive NL championship has been a struggle mainly because they’ve had to overcome numerous injuries. They’ve also had major problems on offense with several players producing below their usual standards. Part of that incon­sistency can be blamed on so many guys being out of the lineup. 
Six of Philadelphia’s eight regulars have spent time on the disabled list, including for­mer MVPs Ryan Howard and Jimmy Rollins. Five-time All-Star Chase Utley was sidelined for a significant stretch, and Shane Victorino, Placido Polanco and Carlos Ruiz also missed time. 
Polanco said Thursday he is playing with a small break in his left elbow, but is postpon­ing surgery until after the sea­son because of the pennant race. 
Rollins, a three-time All-Star shortstop, had two stints on the DL because of a calf injury and left Wednesday night’s game with tightness in his right hamstring. He’s played in just 82 games, and is day to day heading into a weekend series at the New York Mets. 
Utley missed 43 games because of a thumb injury, Howard missed 16 with an ankle sprain, and closer Brad Lidge was on the DL twice and currently has a sore elbow. The Phillies have missed a total of 511 man games to injury, according to STATS 
LLC. Overall, they’ve had 17 players out. 
During a nearly two-week stretch in August, Howard, Utley and Victorino were absent. Still, the Phillies found ways to win. They’re 33-14 since opening the second half with six losses in seven games. 
“You have to attribute that to the guys we have on the roster and the guys we had available,” Manuel said. “They stepped up and did the job when called upon. The guys we had that filled in for the injured players got big hits and made big plays in the right moment and they defi­nitely played a big part in where we’re at.” 
The key reason for Philadelphia’s success has been pitching, especially their top three starters. 
Roy Halladay has lived up to enormous expectations. He’s 17-10 with a 2.36 ERA and eight complete games, includ­ing a perfect game against Florida on May 29. Cole Hamels has been outstanding despite a 10-10 record. The 2008 World Series MVP has a 
3.06 ERA and hasn’t allowed a run in his last 25 innings. Roy Oswalt, acquired from Houston before the trade deadline, is 5-1 with a 2.30 ERA in eight starts for the Phillies. 
If the Phillies hang onto first place or even if they have to sneak into the playoffs as the wild-card winner, they’ll be tough to beat because the Halladay-Hamels-Oswalt trio might be the best threesome in the majors. 
“I compare it to ‘04 and ‘05 with Roger (Clemens) and Andy (Pettitte),” Oswalt said of his days with Houston. “It seems like it pushes you more when you have guys go out there and throw seven (innings) every time out. It’s kind of an in-house competi­tion to push each other and see how good each other can be.” 

NFL 
Austin signs big extension 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas — Pro Bowl receiver Miles Austin is going deep with the Dallas Cowboys— from undrafted rookie to a break­out season and now a long-term contract extension. 
The Cowboys and Austin agreed to a six-year extension through the 2016 season on Thursday, just three days before the fifth-year player’s first season opener as a starter. 
“My career started here, you guys gave me a shot and obvious­ly I put my all out there every day,” said Austin, who was pulled out of offensive meetings for the unexpected yet unsurprising announcement. “It feels great to be wanted by this team because I want to be here.” 
Austin agreed a $3.168 million one-year contract in June, but Cowboys owner Jerry Jones had repeatedly said he wanted to sign the receiver to a long-term deal. That finally got done just before the season opener at Washington. 
Cowboys vice president Stephen Jones would only confirm the length of the extension, not the financial terms. Austin’s agent, David Dunn, didn’t return mes­sages to The Associated Press. 
A story posted Thursday night on the Cowboys’ official team website said the extension was worth about $54 million. That is on top of the deal for this season. 
In his first career start last October at Kansas City, Austin had 10 catches for a team-record 250 yards and two late touch­downs, including the 60-yard game-winner in overtime. He broke the single-game yardage record held by Hall of Fame receiver “Bullet Bob” Hayes since 1966. 

That was quite a breakout per­formance for Austin, who entered that game with 23 career catches, including five in the first four games last season. 
Yet, he wasn’t a one-game won­der. 
His encore was six catches for 171 yards and two more TDs in Dallas’ next game. He went on to earn a spot in the Pro Bowl by finishing the season with 81 catches for 1,320 yards, sixth-best in team history and the sixth-best by any undrafted receiver ever in the NFL. 
The Cowboys certainly don’t anticipate the 26-year-old receiv­er from tiny Monmouth College in New Jersey being only a one-year wonder either. 
“We all are familiar and admire the way Miles has evolved into the player he is today. We’re also very impressed with the person that he is,” Jones said. “I’ve never felt like when we have made this kind of commitment to any indi­vidual that we’ve ever been as prepared or better informed about what he is as a player and as a person. That’s a good feeling and made this very comfortable in terms of getting this done. 
“He’s what we want to build our franchise around,” Jones said. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Highly touted Baxter to make USC debut 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — Dillon Baxter is eager for his Hollywood premiere, even if it’s a week late. 
Southern California’s touted freshman tailback will be in uni­form Saturday night when the 16th-ranked Trojans host Virginia at the Coliseum. 
Although Baxter is among the most anticipated skill-position recruits in the recent history of a talent-studded program, coach Lane Kiffin suspended him for last week’s opener at Hawaii for violations of team rules. While the Trojans traveled to Honolulu and spent an extra day on the beach after their 49-36 victory, Baxter stewed at home. 
“That’s probably the worst thing I’ve been through football-wise, aside from when I was 7 and my mom took all my tro­phies away,” Baxter said, recall­ing a punishment after a poor performance on a science test. 
“I wanted to go out and party a little bit, but I’ve been getting in trouble and whatnot. So I stayed in and watched it at home 
— be mad, sit in my little corner. But that pumped me up and got me pretty hyped for this week.” 
Kiffin hasn’t confirmed exactly what Baxter did to earn a sus­pension, but it hasn’t soured the first-year coach on his prize prospect. Kiffin has suggested the Trojans could use Baxter as a ball carrier, receiver and quar­terback at various points in the same game — although the coach also has more mundane instructions. 
“Take care of the ball,” Kiffin said when asked his primary instruction for Baxter. “That’s the first concern always for a freshman. It’s the most impor­tant thing. We’ll see what he can do from there.” 
Baxter played three skill posi­tions in high school in San Diego, winning several awards as the nation’s top player last fall after rushing for 50 touchdowns and passing for 26 more scores. He stuck with his commitment to the Trojans even after NCAA sanctions ruined his chances of playing in a bowl game for two years. 
Baxter has lived up to his hype during his first few months with the Trojans, culminating in a stellar performance during USC’s spring scrimmage. Film of his speedy, nimble running became a Youtube sensation with several hundred thousand hits. 
Baxter might be USC’s unoffi­cial third quarterback behind Matt Barkley and Mitch Mustain, but he’s likely to get his most extensive action as a running back. Baxter is eager to play alongside tailback Marc Tyler, who unexpectedly won the Trojans’ starting job in training camp before rushing for 154 yards in last week’s opener. 

SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles 5K brings in alumnae 


By KATHARINE MACK 
Sports Writer 
With a 1-1 start to the sea­son, Saint Mary’s will take a break from intercollegiate com­petition for an exhibition event 
— an alumnae 5K race. 
“The alumnae race is a 5K that will just be the team and former cross country alumnae racing together. We’re antici­pating 15 to 20 former athletes to come out and run, but it is not a very competitive event, but more an exhibition event for the team,” Belles coach Jacqueline Bauters said. 
The event will be a good warm-up for the Belles, as they will race again Sept. 18 at the Calvin Invitational, which is an event for which the team has been working hard to prepare. 
“For the past few weeks our focus has really been working towards our first real race at Calvin on the 18th,” Bauters said. “Up until now we are working to prepare ourselves to race competitively and strategi­cally to do well then.” 
The Belles will look to their core of veterans to help the team work on its weak spots before the meet at Calvin. 
“The past two races have provided us with markers on how prepared the team is cur­rently and what steps we need to do to get them ready for next Saturday”, Bauters said. “We have a strong team this season, with [sophomore] Julia Kenney and [junior] Joanne Almond leading a pack of seven or so sophomores, juniors and sen­iors.” 
The team has indeed put up strong results already this sea­son. The Belles opened up their season with a 58-15 victory over Goshen on Sept. 1, posting the top eight times in the meet with a first place finish by Kenney, who posted a time of 20 minute, and 48 seconds as well as a second place finish on the strength of Almond’s 20 minute, 48 second run. 
The following race for the Belles came on Sept. 4 at Wabash. The Belles took home a third place finish out of six teams, only falling short behind then-No. 12 ranked DePauw and the Division II University of Indianapolis. Kenney and Almond were again the top fin­ishers for the Belles, both com­ing in at 23 minutes and 27 seconds. 
With some already positive results, Coach Bauters said she is looking to improve from last year and to keep striving for even more success this season. 
“As a team we are looking to improve within the MIAA, cracking into the top 3 in the conference after a few years of coming in fourth,” said Bauters. “I think with the talent and hard work I’ve seen thus far, these goals are attainable. I’m very pleased with how everyone is running so far and look for much better things to come.” 
The Alumnae Race will be held Saturday at 9 a.m. at the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Contact Katharine Mack at kmack1@nd.edu 

Mustangs 
continued from page 28 
“We respect all our oppo­nents as we play a very strong schedule but we con­centrate mainly on what we will do rather than our opponents,” Clark said. 
Cal Poly will open the tour­nament against No. 18 Indiana, the fourth competi­tor in the Mike Berticelli Memorial, at 5 p.m. Friday, followed by Notre Dame’s matchup against Drake at 
7:30 p.m at Alumni Field. The tournament will wrap up Sunday with Indiana playing Drake at 11:30 a.m. and the Irish facing Cal Poly at 2 p.m., also at Alumni Field. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
Bruins 
continued from page 28 
motivation for the UCLA squad. 
“I think they’re going to be real­ly ready to play the next few weeks to gain back a little of that respect they lost,” Waldrum said, 
The Bruins are led by junior for­ward Sydney Leroux, who won the Golden Boot at the under-20 World Cup. She currently leads UCLA with five goals and 11 points. Junior goalkeeper Chante Sandiford has been stout between the pipes for the Bruins, with a 
0.52 goals against average and a shutout in four starts. 
“They’re really loaded with tal­ent,” Waldrum said of the Bruins. “You look at that team and they’re made up of a lot of national team kids, so they’re going to be pretty solid through and through.” 
Notre Dame (4-0) leads the all-time series with UCLA 2-0-0, with both wins coming in the NCAA Tournament. Their most recent victory over the Bruins was in the 2004 NCAA finals, when the Irish won a national championship in a penalty shootout. The victory marked the first and only time that the national title has been decided on penalty kicks. 
Loyola Marymount will also be a relatively new foe for the Irish, as this weekend’s matchup will mark just the second time that the two squads have faced each other. Their previous matchup was a 4-0 win for Notre Dame in 2008, the last season at old Alumni Stadium. Junior Melissa Henderson notched a goal in the game during what was her first season with the Irish. 
The Lions are off to a 4-1 start this year, with just a 2-1 loss to No. 14 California in the season opener marring their record. They will also be Notre Dame’s second opponent from the West Coast Conference in as many weekends, as the Irish played Santa Clara last Friday. 
Loyola Marymount is led this year by a pair of freshmen in defender Tata Gilmer and forward Tawni Martino. Martino leads Loyola Marymount with four goals, and senior midfielder Nickey Ha trails her with three. Like UCLA, the Lions have a stout netminder in goal in freshman Brittany Jagger, who has posted an 0.80 goals against average and 
a .871 save percentage. 
The Irish will kick off against UCLA at 7 p.m. Pacific time Friday and will round out the weekend at 11 p.m. Sunday against Loyola Marymount. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 

Weekend 
continued from page 28 
be challenging, as both teams qualified for the NCAA Division III Tournament last year. 
Regardless of the difficulty of this weekend’s matchups, Joyce said he has an unshak­able faith in his team’s ability to continue to work hard and compete. 
“We can knock the ball around with anyone we face,” he said. “Sometimes against a good team you end up playing defense the whole game and are lucky to get past midfield, but with every­one we’ve faced we’re able to create good scoring chances.” 
While Joyce would admit that his team has had a few unlucky breaks this year, he said he believes the key to the team’s success is to stay the course and, above all, focus. 
“We’ re positive about of performances,” he said. “Our biggest challenge is keeping our head in the game for 90 minutes”. 
An inopportune lapse of focus, even if only for a few minutes, is enough to derail Saint Mary’s efforts as the season rolls on. The Belles fell victim to such a mistake 
once before and paid the price 
“I thought we had a 10 ­minute spell against Illinois Wesleyan where we let down and it cost us two goals, ” Joyce said. “Without that let down and a few mistakes, it could’ve been a very close game.” 
The Belles will look to internalize their coach ’s words as they take the field against two very formidable 
opponents this weekend. Saint Mary ’s takes on Otterbein today at 2 p.m. and concludes the weekend against Ohio Northern tomor­row at 2:30 p.m. 
Contact Robert Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 

opportunity to learn more about the team before conference play 
Road 
continued from page 28 
Denver, with matches against Denver, Jacksonville State and Gonzaga at the Pioneer Classic. 
Irish coach Debbie Brown said she has been pleased with her team’s response to the challenges that come with travel. 
‘The team responds well to traveling and playing in different environments,” Brown said. “We are able to adapt well to the sur­roundings.” 
This responsiveness and acute attention to detail, Brown said, can be paramount to success on the road. 
“This week in Denver, we have to pay attention to little things, like the altitude change,” she said. “The thin air is a bit of a challenge; the ball has a tendency to float quite a bit more.” 
Although Jacksonville State, Denver and Gonzaga will be chal­lenging opponents, the Irish are focusing instead on their own side of the net this weekend. 
“Our main goal is to implement all the things in practice that we have been working on and to focus on our game,” Brown said. “The hours of practice should translate into success against any opponent.” 
This weekend also provides an commences. 
“We are learning what fresh­men can do in matches and see­ing which players are striving and which others are struggling,” Brown said. “It is great to just get everyone playing time and gain cohesion as a group,” 
The team is also eager to avenge last week’s lone loss in Reno to the University of Nevada. The Irish fell in five sets (3-2) to narrowly miss their goal of an undefeated weekend. 
“When your last match is a loss, you have an eagerness to get out on the court and prove yourself,” Brown said. “We won’t feel good with anything less than winning all three games this weekend. We want to win every tournament and we felt like could have and should have won last weekend.” 
Though the Irish will be focus­ing on the games at hand, the looming milestone has given Brown cause for reflection. 
“As with any milestone, I don’t think about it in terms of wins and losses but the people I inter­acted with: all the athletes and students I was fortunate enough to coach,” she said. “I feel blessed for the 20 years I spent at Notre Dame.” 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 

Belles 
continued from page 28 
course in as many years. So, in that sense, the Belles are in the same position as the rest of the conference. 
“Nobody has seen that golf course,” Hamilton said. “It’ll be a clean slate.” 
Saturday will be the first opportunity for Saint Mary’s to reestablish itself as the pre­mier program in the MIAA. Last year, the Belles finished the season at No. 8 in the country, a spot they would like to return to or even surpass this year. Hamilton has supreme confidence in his team’s ability to do just that, starting with this weekend’s event. 
“My expectations are that we’re going to win, to be quite honest,” Hamilton said. “We’re going to be the team to beat.” 
In the MIAA season, points are accumulated over the six conference matches. Therefore, the team’s consis­tent performance across the schedule will be more impor­tant than going out and being better than the one opponent they are facing each weekend. 
“Every round counts,” Hamilton said. 
The Belles will tee off against Alma at 1 p.m. Saturday at Pine River Country Club. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 


CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 
Friday, September 10, 2010 page 28 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Milestone on the mind 
Coach Debbie Brown 
aims for 450th victory  
By MICHAEL TODISCO  
Sports Writer  
Notre Dame enters the week­ 
end looking for three more wins,  
and Irish coach Debbie Brown is  
no stranger to winning volleyball  
games. She is in pursuit of a  
monumental achievement this  
weekend: her 450th win with the  
Notre Dame program.  
Now in her twentieth season,  
Brown is 449-172 as leader of the  
Irish.  
This weekend the Irish will  
travel to Denver, Colo. for three  
games at the Pioneer Classic after  
playing a similarly hectic sched­ 
ule last weekend in Reno, Nev.  
In Reno at the Nevada  
Invitational last weekend, the  
Irish won two of three matches,  
with victories over Belmont and  
Weber State, and a defeat at the  
hands of Nevada.  
Notre Dame will wrap up their  
road swing this weekend in see ROAD/page 26  PAT COVENEY/The Observer Senior blocker Kellie Sciaccia, left, and junior hitter Kristen Dealy go up for a block in Notre Dame’s August 29 loss to Arizona.  

SMC SOCCER 
Belles look to pick up first win 
By ROBERT GRAHAM 
Sports Writer 
Despite a 0-4 record to begin the season, Saint Mary’s soccer coach Michael Joyce sees a silver lining to the Belles’ early troubles. 
“We have about as ambi­tious a schedule as anyone out there,” he said. “While we end up with a number of losses, it does force us to raise our level of play.” 
The Belles will need to be ready to raise that level as soon as today, however, as they venture to Otterbein University for a weekend tournament. Saint Mary ’s will face off against the No. 7 host Cardinals this afternoon before finishing up with Ohio Northern University Saturday. 
The weekend will certainly 
see WEEKEND/page 25 

MEN’S SOCCER 
Irish seek first victory at annual Mike Berticelli Memorial 
2000 season. coach Bobby Clark said. “We look to them for on-the-field Kenan Malicevic netted their 
By ERIC PRISTER 
The Irish (0-1-1) are coming must hold firm to our beliefs leadership. lone goal. 
Associate Sports Editor 
off a 0-0 draw with Cal, a and be patient” Drake came into the season The Cal Poly Mustangs come game in which the Irish lost The 0-0 result was a good after a 16-7-2 2009 campaign into the weekend with a 1-1 The Irish will host the ninth senior Jeb Brovsky to injury. sign for one Irish player. where they reached the quar-record, coming off of a 2-1 annual Mike Berticelli With his status uncertain, oth-Junior goalkeeper Will Walsh terfinals of the NCAA overtime loss to Air Force. Memorial Tournament this ers will need to step up this was able to record his first Tournament, and are 1-1 so They defeated Denver 1-0 in weekend, playing against No. weekend to fill a large whole clean sheet against Cal, and far this season. their first match of the season. 22 Drake Friday and Cal Poly in an offense, which has been has recorded nine saves in They defeated Michigan 1-0 Sophomore Chris Gaschen and Sunday. unable to score in their first 200 minutes of play. in their first game, and then junior Tim White have scored 
The tournament honors two matches of the year. Junior Aaron Maund and lost 1-0 in overtime to for the Mustangs, while junior Berticelli, a former Irish soc-“We opened the game well sophomore Dillon Powers Oakland leading up to this goaltender Patrick McLain has cer coach, who led the team and then got impatient when were both named as Soccer weekend. Junior goalkeeper 15 saves in two games so far. from 1990-99 before suddenly we did not get anything tangi-America Preseason All-Jordan Kadlec leads the team passing away during the 1999-ble out of our good play,” Irish Americans, and the Irish will with 13 saves, and senior see MUSTANGS/page 25 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Squad travels to West Coast 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
The gauntlet continues for No. 3/4 Notre Dame this weekend as the Irish head west for their first ever trip to southern California in the UCLA Women’s Cup. 
Headlining the trip for the Irish will be their matchup with No. 13 UCLA, a perennial force in NCAA soccer Friday night. The Irish will then wrap things up Sunday with a game against Loyola Marymount. 
UCLA (2-1) opened the year as the consensus No. 3 team in the country, but an early upset loss to Northwestern saw the Bruins take a tumble in the polls, some­thing that Irish coach Randy Waldrum thinks will add extra 
see BRUINS/page 25 

SMC GOLF 
Team eager to begin conference season 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s will begin its conference season this week­end against Alma at Pine River Country Club. 
With two weeks off since their last match, the Belles have had an extended period of time for practicing and working on their weak spots. Not too many adjustments needed to be made, however, as the Belles dominated in their first appearance of the year in the Trine Invitational, with four of the five top scores for the weekend card­ed by Saint Mary’s players. 
The squad, however, aims to avoid complacency and instead get better. 
“We’ve made some changes in our mechanics,” Belles coach Mark Hamilton said. “And I want our players to be mentally prepared.” 
Because this is only the sec­ond match of the year, the younger players still need to garner trust in themselves as well as trust in their team­mates and their coaches, Hamilton said. 
Another challenge that awaits the Belles is unfamil­iarity. Saint Mary’s has not faced Alma at Pine River since 2002. In fact, no one in the MIAA has played on that 
see BELLES/page 26 

Photo Illustration by Pat Coveney and Blair Chemidlin 
COMMENTARY 
Questions remain despiteopeningwin 
There were a lot of ques­tions going into last week’s game and, in general, Notre Dame did a good job of answering them. 
Against Purdue, the Irish offense found some holes, the defense made some tackles and the special teams were successful on both sides of the ball. 
In general, that’s what observers wanted to see from Notre Dame. 
But with one week down and Michigan coming to South Bend, it’s time to get more specific. 
“We have not reached a point where we understand the entire offense, defense and special teams,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said Wednesday specifics in a hurry. 

Can this week’s Irish score enough points to knock Michigan off its game? 
If Notre Dame wants to put points on the board, the offensive linemen can’t miss some of the blocks they missed against Purdue. Quarterback Dayne Crist can’t miss when he sends passes into the back of the end zone, either. 
The only player who never missed against Purdue was kicker David Ruffer, but it will be hard to put up “a lot of points” three at a time. 
If they are able to score, can this week’s Irish keep Robinson and the rest of the Wolverines contained? 
Purdue couldn’t hurt Notre Dame with big plays Saturday, but the Boilermakers moved the ball well on short gains that turned into first downs. Robinson will probably do the same, and the Irish will need 
to find a way 
to stop him. 
“He’s a run-
after prac-Last week’s Irish were a ning back,” tice. “This is new team making its Kelly said. going to be a “And the only 
debut and finding a way
work in way I know progress to win. This week’s Irish how to take a 
each and are no longer new, but running back 
every week.” out of play is 
not yet experienced.
Last to hit him and 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Atkinson twins highlight recruits 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
If Notre Dame plays well Saturday, it could help the Irish in seasons to come as much as it would help them during this sea­son. 
Three four-star recruits, according to the ESPN top 150 recruit rankings, will visit cam­pus for the Michigan game, along with a pair of twins, Irish recruiting expert Mike Frank said. 
“If they like what they see, there is a good chance Notre Dame could end up with both [George and Josh Atkinson],” said Frank, who heads the online ESPN affiliate Irish Sports Daily. 
Along with the Atkinson broth­ers, defensive end Stephon Tuitt, safety Wayne Lyons and offensive tackle Antonio Richardson will spend the weekend at Notre Dame absorbing the gameday experience. 
Richardson, the highest ranked recruit among the five at No. 32, would fill a big need for Notre Dame on the offensive line. The high school senior already tips the scales at 310 pounds, stand­ing 6-foot-6. 
“He’s always had an interest in Notre Dame,” Frank said. “He wants to come up for a game and get that experience, see that atmosphere. If he likes it, Notre Dame could really be in the mix for him.” 
Lyons, at No. 67 on the ESPN top 150, would potentially join a secondary that is currently strug­gling depth-wise. 
“Lyons is a phenomenal ath­lete,” Frank said. “He could play cornerback or safety, and is just a guy you want.” 
Tuitt, from Georgia, has listed Notre Dame as one of his top five preferences, but is still highly recruited from across the coun­try, with reason. 
“Tuitt would be a great addi­tion to the class,” Frank said. “He is a big guy already so he wouldn’t need to add much weight to play that defensive end position.” 
Tuitt, 6-foot-5 and 255 pounds, has not visited Notre Dame before. 
“He is a real smart kid,” Frank said. “He’s the type of kid who I think will really like it once he’s here. He is very similar personal­ity-wise to a lot of guys already on the team.” 
Of the five recruits, Notre Dame might have its best chance of landing the Atkinson brothers. Josh, a cornerback, would also potentially help Notre Dame’s depleted secondary in a year. 
“If Josh commits, he will prob­ably be the guy with the most speed at the corner position,” Frank said. 
George Atkinson could play multiple positions for the Irish. Frank compared George to for­mer Florida receiver Percy Harvin, who left college after the 2008 season. 
“George is a real dynamic player that could play nearly anything,” Frank said. “I think Notre Dame envisions him in a Percy Harvin role, you put him at wide receiver or running back. He could play a lot of different positions. 
“The main thing is you just want to put the ball in his hands, because he has the ability to score from anywhere.” 
George and Josh Atkinson are also considering Washington and Oregon. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 

week’s Irish were a new team making its debut and finding a way to win. This week’s Irish are no longer new, but not yet experienced. 
So does this week’s Irish squad have an answer to Michigan quarterback Denard Robinson, who threw for 186 yards and ran for 197 more Saturday in the Wolverines’ 30-10 win over Connecticut? 
“Oh, what a fantastic ath­lete he is,” defensive line coach Mike Elston said Tuesday. “You’re not pre­pared to defend with him. He’s just a fantastic athlete.” 
There were times on Saturday when fans had to wonder whether the Irish defense was too slow or Purdue quarterback Robert Marve was too fast. Elston said Marve is “not even in the same ballpark” as Robinson. 
Kelly said the offense and defense both would have to compensate for Robinson. 
“I always look at it from both perspectives,” he said. “One is controlling the foot­ball, but the other is put a lot of points on the board and it changes the way they man­age the game.” 
Looks like the team is going to need to understand its make sure you 
tackle him.” 
After Saturday’s game Kelly wasn’t happy with the team’s tackling, though fans were thrilled by the suggestion of tackling ability that had elud­ed the team for several sea­sons. 
Inside linebackers Carlo Calabrese and Manti Te’o led the team in tackles with nine each — but Te’o missed sev­eral more. 
The defensive line had four sacks, with three coming in a seven-minute span to open the second half. To get at Robinson, they’ll need to cre­ate more consistent pressure throughout. 
If this week’s Irish can suc­cessfully fix the problems they encountered last week, they may be able to find the answer to Denard Robinson. 
“That’s going to be the issue,” Kelly said. “If you really want to know and cut it down to its real roots, you’ve got to tackle this kid.” 
In general, that sounds like a plan. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

Cool, calm, Crist 
In Brian Kelly’s new scheme, the offense will go as Dayne Crist goes, and he’s okay with that 
By MATT GAMBER Sports Writer  would have predicted three years ago, with Clausen leaving early for the NFL and Kelly replacing  How would he react when the red jersey came off and it was time to take a hit?  
former Irish coach Charlie Weis  But, again, those questions did- 
The point of Irish coach Brian  this winter.  n’t affect Crist.  
Kelly’s message to junior Dayne  Add in the fact that Crist  —  “It’s been put toward the back  
Crist before Saturday’s opener  who played sparingly last season  of my head for a while now,” Crist  
was likely similar to the one  after redshirting as a freshman in  said of the knee. “I’m very happy  
many quarterbacks receive prior  2008  — suffered a torn anterior  with how everything turned out,  
to their first career start.  cruciate ligament (ACL) in Notre  with the treatment of the doctors,  
“He was just trying to settle me  Dame’s  blowout  win  over  athletic trainers and everyone  
down,” Crist told The Observer  Washington State last Halloween,  who did their part in making sure  
Tuesday. “He didn’t want me to  and there were plenty of ques­ it was 100 percent healthy.”  
press or try and do too many things to try and win it all in one  tions worth pondering all winter. But not for Crist.  Opening statement  
play. He said if I just went out  “Really, to be honest, I just got  Crist’s stat line Saturday wasn’t  
there and played my game, we’d  tired of hearing about all those  spectacular, as he finished 19-of­ 
have a great chance of being suc­ things,” he said. “You go from  26 for 205 yards and one touch­ 
cessful.”  that period of time where you  down. He wasn’t perfect, either,  
Straightforward enough. But  don’t play a game and that’s all  as he overshot multiple receivers  
the way in which Kelly delivered  you hear for six or seven months,  in the end zone and took a pair of  
that simple message — by telling  and you get tired of hearing it all.  sacks.  
Crist “he didn’t have to win the  You just want to go out there,  “There were some issues we  
Heisman today”  — demonstrates  play to the best of your ability,  identified on offense that we want  
how highly he  and try to quiet  to make sure we correct for next  
regards the tal­ as many of those  week,” Crist said. “Obviously, it’s  
ent and poten­tial of his start­ “It’s a big one, a real big  things as possi­ble.”  going to take more and more for us to win each week, but we did  
ing quarter­back. “It’s definitely flattering any  rivalry, and something that’s bigger than any player on the team.”  Crist’s knee recovered ahead of schedule, and he was able to  enough things to win, and we’re happy with that.” Simply put, Crist avoided turnovers and did enough to give  
time  your  participate fully  the Irish, with their improved run  
coach talks about you in that light, but  Dayne Crist junior quarterback  in spring and summer drills, albeit in a red  game and attacking 3-4 defense, a chance to win Saturday. “It was definitely a point of  
the  most  jersey, signaling  emphasis for me, trying to pro- 
important thing  that he was off­ tect the ball in my first start, try- 
to me is always going out there  limits to contact. Taking those  ing to be efficient and accurate as  
and winning games with the rest  valuable offseason reps gave Crist  possible,” Crist said. “Now that  
of the guys,” Crist said of Kelly,  the opportunity to learn the new  I’ve got a little bit more familiari­ 
referencing college football’s  offense and develop a relation­ ty and my comfort level has gone  
most  prestigious  individual  ship with Kelly, who is admittedly  up with game experience, I just  
award. “It’s nice that your head  hands-on with his quarterback.  feel I’ll be able to progress and do  
coach has confidence in you, but  “Like any relationship, it grows  some better things each week.”  
none of those individual acco­ and matures with time,” Crist  One element of that is picking PAT COVENEY/The Observer  
lades or awards come without  said. “We’ve definitely gone  up the pace at which the Irish get Junior quarterback Dayne Crist looks for an open receiver  
team success, so it’s more about  through phases of just getting to  to the line, call a play and snap during Notre Dame’s 23-12 victory over Purdue Saturday.  
playing solid team football.”  know each other, both on and off  the ball  — a  major piece of  
Those awards may come in  the field. Then, as we know more  Kelly’s  up-tempo  attack.  The ability to execute in an  excited more than anything.”  
time, but if Saturday’s perform- and more about each other, we  Saturday’s unit operated at light  opener,  with  a  new  coach,  Equally  exciting  are  the  
ance is any indication, Crist’s top  understand what makes each  speed relative to last year’s Irish  scheme and quarterback, is a  prospects of a Crist-led offense  
priority is efficiently managing  other tick, just certain ins and  offense, but coordinator Charley  reflection of Crist’s readiness for  that includes passing-game play- 
the offense in a way that gives the  outs of everything. As a result,  Molnar called the pace “pedestri­ his starting debut.  makers like Rudolph and wide  
Irish a chance to win.  the relationship continues to  an.”  “You didn’t really see the jitters  receivers Michael Floyd, TJ Jones  
grow and will do so as the season  “It was not the normal speed  and stuff that you would expect  and Theo Riddick — the latter of  
Tired of questions  continues and as long as I’m  that we’re used to working at,  from a first-time starter on the  whom Kelly said will become  
When Crist committed to Notre  here.”  but quite honestly, it was the  biggest stage in the world,” junior  more involved in the coming  
Dame in the summer of 2007,  Crist’s spring and  summer  right speed for Saturday,” he  tight end Kyle Rudolph said.  weeks.  
there was little doubt he would  availability helped erase concerns  said. “It was the right speed to  “Dayne has prepared himself  “We want to be talked about as  
eventually  succeed  fellow  about his familiarity with the no- allow our guys to get lined up  since the day he got here for that  one of the most explosive and  
Californian Jimmy Clausen as the  huddle,  fast-paced  spread  quickly, but not so fast that they  opportunity. You could tell when  most efficient offenses in the  
Irish quarterback. That has hap- offense. Even still, some uncer­ weren’t able to concentrate on  he went in there, he was ready.”  country,” Crist said. “We’ve got  
pened, but not in the way most  tainty existed about his knee:  their assignments and execute.”  ‘Real big rivalry’  some very serious offensive goals that we set at the beginning of  
Kelly tried to downplay the  the season, and we want to make  
Notre Dame-Michigan rivalry at  sure we accomplish those things  
his Tuesday press conference,  each week. We really just want to  
even comparing the showdown  win football games and be an  
between two of college football’s  explosive offensive team.”  
most storied programs to an  The degree to which the Irish  
annual  matchup  between  need that explosive offense on  
Cincinnati and Miami (Ohio).  Saturday may depend on how the  
“From our end, it’s a rivalry  Notre Dame defense fares against  
game  every  week  at  Notre  Michigan’s dangerous, dual- 
Dame,” he said. “I have never  threat  quarterback  Denard  
prepared football teams in a  Robinson. When facing a potent  
manner that we focus on a par- offense, one line of thinking is to  
ticular rivalry, that this is all eggs  control the clock and hold the  
in one basket. I try to keep a  ball whenever possible  — which  
steady, enthusiastic approach to  directly contradicts Kelly’s fast- 
every game.”  paced philosophy.  
Crist followed Kelly’s message  “My other perspective would  
prior  to  the  opener  against  be: get up on them, score a lot of  
Purdue, and he typically echoes  points,” Kelly said Wednesday.  
his  coach’s  words  when  he  That responsibility, then, will  
speaks to the media. But not even  fall on the unit Crist now calls his  
Crist could utter the cliché that  own.  
Saturday’s  tilt  with  the  “I need to have a great week of  
Wolverines  is  “just  another  practice,  as  does the entire  
game.”  team,” Crist said. “On offense,  
“Obviously you’re going to have  I’ve got to be a guy who displays  
some emotions going into this  a lot of leadership throughout the  
one,” he said. “It’s a big one, a  week and really make sure we’re  
real big rivalry, and something  practicing the right way and win­ 
that’s bigger than any player on  ning earlier in the week,  as  
the team. There will probably be  opposed to just going out there  
some nerves going in, but it’ll def- and trying to win on Saturday.”  
DAN JACOBS/The Observer  initely be that way for both  
Senior running back Armando Allen takes a handoff from quarterback Dayne Crist Saturday. Crist  teams. In a big game like this, it’s  Contact Matt Gamber at  
and Allen led the Irish offense, in Brian Kelly’s new scheme, to 358 total yards.  expected, but everyone’s just  mgamber@nd.edu  

Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 
HEAD T
Record: 1-0 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
First season at 
Irish Offense vs. Wolverines Defense 
Notre Dame 


career record: 
172-57-2 
record at ND: 
1-0 
against Michigan: 
0-0 




Douglas 
Farmer 
Sports Editor 
After last week’s victory over Purdue, my co-worker Sam [three picks to the right] couldn’t get over how “weird” of a game it was. 
Well Sam, expect this weekend to be more “normal.” Normal? Notre Dame’s best bet to outscoring RichRod and Denard Robinson is to abandon all caution, and let the Brian Kelly playbook loose. 
Only in his second start, Dayne Crist will make a mistake or two with the added responsibility, but he will mature before Irish eyes in the sec­ond half, leading Notre Dame to a victory and a top-25 ranking. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 38, Michigan 28 Matt Gamber 

Editor-in-Chief 
Denard Robinson scares me, but I’m willing to bet Manti Te’o scares Robinson more — or, at least he will after laying his first lick on the Michigan quarterback. No doubt, Robinson was impressive in his debut, but playing against a confident Irish defense in Notre Dame Stadium is a whole new ballgame. He’ll make plays with his legs, but I think Notre Dame will limit his ability to pass effectively. 
An additional week of practice should add some depth to the Irish offensive playbook and allow Dayne Crist and Co. to make a few of the big plays that elud­ed Notre Dame against Purdue. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27, Michigan 21 Eric Prister 

Associate Sports Editor 
Coaches often say that a team improves most between weeks one and two, and the Irish will need that improvement to keep up with the high-powered Michigan attack. Crist is a week more experienced in run­ning Kelly’s offense, and should only continue to improve. 
The defense looked fast last week against Purdue, a stark difference from the last few years, but they will need to tackle better to stop Denard Robinson from running all over the field. Honestly, I doubt they will be able to stop him, but they should be able to outscore him. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27, Michigan 24 

Michigan 
Wolverines
O HEAD 
Record: 1-0 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
Third season at Michigan 
Wolverines Offense vs. Irish Defense 

career record: 
108-71-2 
record at Michigan: 
9-16 
against ND: 
1-1 






S

I
V
E
M
C
H
G
A
O
F
NO
P
U
R
A
C
H
I
N
G
Michigan will pose a significantly 
This time last year, I couldn’t imagine tougher task than Purdue did last 
a scenario where Notre Dame would week, and Denard Robinson gives 
lose to Michigan — until it happened. Irish fans a legitimate reason to be 
This year, I can imagine many such terrified. That said, expect the Irish 
scenarios. Denard Robinson could run to make a big leap between week 
for 300 yards. Notre Dame’s time of one and week two. Manti Te'o won't 
possession could slip under the 20­miss as many tackles as he did last 
minute mark. Big 10 officials could week, and the Irish defense will 
make their presence felt. 
improve on the solid fundamentals it But this is a stronger team than last 
displayed last week to at least con-year’s squad. Literally — they’ve prac­
tain the elusive Robinson. The ticed outside in thunderstorms, which 
Wolverines will put up some points, are predicted for Saturday afternoon. 
but, against a depleted Michigan sec-An improved offense and defense will 
ondary, so will Dayne Crist, Michael allow this year’s Notre Dame to find a 
Floyd and the Irish. way to win. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, Michigan 28 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34, Michigan 28 






Sam Werner 
Sports Writer 

Laura Myers 
Sports Writer 



Irish face ‘one of the best athletes’ in Robinson 
By DOUGLAS FARMER Sports Editor  not plan to alter his defensive approach in order to contain Robinson on the ground or in  
the air.  
In its first game, Notre Dame  “There are no new defenses  
held Purdue’s Robert Marve, a  to put in, just a selection from  
dual-threat quarterback, in  what we already have,” Diaco  
check, only giving up one play  said. “When a player shows up  
of more than 20 yards.  in an area with the ball, [our  
In Saturday’s game against  defense has] to be able to pro- 
Michigan, Notre Dame will face  duce and make the play.”  
another dual-threat quarter- A stable of swift receivers,  
back, one who was involved in  including Martavious Odoms,  
three plays for more than 20  supplemented Robinson’s play- 
yards — 383 yards total — in a  making.  
30-10 win over Connecticut.  “It’s not just [Robinson],”  
Wolverines sophomore quar- Diaco said. “I love [Odoms]. I’d  
terback  Denard  Robinson  love to coach [Odoms]. He’s like  
rushed for 197 yards and threw  a little tiger out there. He’s just  
for 186 more in his first career  an animal.”  
start. He will pose a unique  Odoms, Robinson and the rest  
challenge to the Irish defense,  of the Wolverines’ offense relied  
from the defen­ on  speed  to  
sive line to the secondary. “He’s proba­ “When you think of him as a quarterback and  score against C o n n e c t i c u t . Diaco said he  
bly one of the best athletes we’re going to face,” Irish  not as a ball carrier, when he becomes a ball carrier, it is like they  expects to slow the Wolverines down with his typical “gap- 
defensive line coach Mike  have 12 guys.”  control.” “They’ll pun- 
Elston said. With a quar­terback as ver- Bob Diaco Irish defensive coordinator  ish you. Every one of their AP players has Wolverine quarterback Denard Robinson scores on a 22-yard rush against Connecticut Saturday dur­ 
satile  as  electric speed,” ing Michigan’s 30-10 victory. Robinson tallied 197 rushing and 186 passing yards in the victory.  
Robinson, Irish  Diaco said. “We  
defensive  coordinator  Bob  try to be sure that everybody  “Their offense, obviously, is  receiver Terrence Robinson on  to handle Robinson and the  
Diaco said it is similar to play- has their proper gap fit and  set to run the football,” Kelly  the other end,  went  for 43  Michigan offense, on one condi­ 
ing against  a  team  with  an  they understand their assign- said. “Now, [Robinson will]  yards and set up Michigan’s  tion, Diaco said.  
extra player.  ments. Each particular guy has  throw the ball and he’s very  final touchdown of the game, an  “All we are going to do is do  
“It’s a real challenge,” Diaco  his job to do in each particular  accurate. Most of his throws are  11-yard touchdown pass.  the best  we  can  in selecting  
said. “He’s as talented as all the  call, and he has to do that job.  contained within five  or  10  “He has a strong arm, throws  from the menu of installations  
ball carriers on their team and  [Nobody] can be looking for the  yards of the line of scrimmage,  a nice tight spiral and can make  that we have and preparing the  
on our team with the ball in his  football.”  but if you fall asleep on him he  all the throws,” said Diaco, cit- players mentally. Then, they  
hands. When you think of him  Irish  coach  Brian  Kelly  can throw the ball over your  ing  a  game last  year when  need  to  clearly  know  their  
as a quarterback and not as a  expects Robinson to  pose  a  head.”  Robinson, who played sparingly  assignment and do their assign- 
ball carrier, when he becomes a  threat, but he said he sees that  Indeed, against Connecticut,  as  a  freshman  last  season,  ment the entire time.”  
ball carrier it is like they have  threat  beginning  mostly  Robinson completed only one  entered the game for one play  
12 guys.”  through  short-yardage  pass for more than 16 yards.  solely to throw a deep pass.  Contact Douglas Farmer at  
That being said, Diaco does  attempts.  That one play, with sophomore  The Irish defense will be able  dfarmer1@nd.edu  

Walk-on kicker finds way to top of depth chart 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
It was never surprising for coaches to see a walk-on compet­ing with a recruited player for the starting kicker spot. 
So it wasn’t a surprise when senior David Ruffer won that spot and kicked three field goals on three tries, including a 46-yarder, Saturday against Purdue. 
“We don’t treat guys as walk-ons,” special teams coach Mike Elston said. “If they’re brought in to be a part of the team they’re expected to help us improve our football team.” 
Ruffer joined the Irish in 2008 as a backup to then-sophomore Brandon Walker, and he spent 2009 in a backup role behind then-freshman Nick Tausch. 
He spent fall camp competing with Tausch, and came out ahead. 
“Coach Kelly and I had been saying all week and all of fall camp that it was going to be a battle down to the end,” Elston said. “David was better with his tempo, better with his timing and more accurate in practice.” 
And though coaches weren’t surprised, Ruffer never saw him­self as a starting kicker at Notre Dame. 
“It’s kind of the back of the mind, something you think about before you go to bed at night, maybe,” he said. 
Ruffer began his college career at William & Mary in Virginia. He was a kicker for the Tribe, which plays in the Football Championship Series, formerly Division I-AA. He transferred to Notre Dame after his freshman year and joined the Siegfried Ramblers for Notre Dame’s inter-hall season. 
“I played wide receiver. The rosters are so limited in interhall that they can’t have someone just be a kicker,” Ruffer said. “So I had to try to be an athlete.” 
He was only a Rambler for a short time, though, before he joined the Irish. 
“I figured if I kept working on it, worked hard over the summer, I thought maybe,” Ruffer said. 
Ruffer missed his only kick in 2008, an extra point attempt. But in 2009, he was 5-for-5 in field goal attempts. 
Tausch made 14-of-17 field goals in 2009, with a long of 46 yards. 
For Ruffer, who didn’t play foot­ball in high school, the biggest thing he has had to improve was the speed between the snap and the kick. 
“If it gets blocked, it doesn’t matter how well you hit it,” he said. “So we work on that, just timing, timing, timing.” 
Elston said Ruffer would be used to attempt field goals up to the low 50s in length. 
“Maybe 55 if the wind is right,” he said. 
Being trusted in a 55-yard kick situation at Notre Dame is a long way from where Ruffer ever imagined he would be. 
“I never thought I’d be start­ing,” he said. “You know, it would be cool to make the team, be a part of the program. 

“I come to practice and some­times when I walk out of here I have to be like ‘Oh my gosh, I play football for Notre Dame, this is really neat.’” 
Of course, Siegfried hasn’t let him go. 
“[Rector Fr. John Conley] tries to recruit me back every year,” Ruffer said. “Like, ‘Hey David, we could really use you!’” 
But Ruffer is committed to the Irish and has been since he trans­ferred. 
“Maybe there’s a magnet in that Dome that pulled me over here,” he said. 
Elston said Ruffer’s hard work trumped his status as a walk-on when the coaches put him on top of the depth chart. 
“Shoot, if you look over the years at Coach Kelly and the spe­cial teams that I’ve been a part of, sometimes we’ll start six, seven walk-ons in front of starters,” Elston said. “They want to be a part of something. So they work a little bit harder, maybe, in some areas. Hard work beats tal­ent when talent hardly works.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 








