the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Academic Council votes to dissolve Econ dept. 
Economics and Policy Studies branch, in existence since 2003, will be disbanded by the end of this semester 
By JOHN TIERNEY 
News Writer 
The Academic Council voted to dissolve the Department of Economics and Policy Studies (ECOP) at its meeting Thursday. 
The department will cease to exist effective at the end of the semester. 
The existing Department of Economics and Econometrics will be renamed the Department of Economics, and will serve as the University’s sole economics department. 
The University has supported two economics departments since 2003, when the Academic Council voted to split the Department of Economics into Economics and Policy Studies and Economics and Econometrics. 
Since 2003, the ECOP, which emphasizes alternative econom­ics theories, has not been allowed to hire new faculty members or accept doctoral candidates. 
John McGreevy, dean of the College of Arts and Letters, ini­tially proposed the dissolution of ECOP last year. Continuing to support two economics depart­ments is “not sustainable,” McGreevy said in September. 
Fate of the Faculty 
The tenure of ECOP faculty members will be respected, McGreevy said. The University is currently working with the faculty to identify new institu­tional areas for them. McGreevy said he hopes to find new departments for ECOP profes­sors by the end of the semester. 
Some Policy Studies profes­sors might move to the reestab­lished Department of Economics, but they will have to be invited by the department itself, McGreevy said. 
“It’s a mutual process,” he said. 
McGreevy cited the Kroc Institute, the Kellogg Institute and the Poverty Studies minor as potential homes for ECOP faculty. 
The Poverty Studies minor is currently administered by the 
see ECON/page 6 





Chesley, Smith to lead SMC student body 
Duo beats current student body president Meg Griffin and running mate Emily Skirtich 

By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s juniors Rachael Chesley and Laura Smith said they will bring a “fresh per­spective” to their roles as Student Government Association (SGA) president and vice president, respec­tively, when they take office April 1. 
The pair defeated junior Meg Griffin, current SGA vice president, and sophomore Emily Skirtich, SGA executive secretary in the Feb. 26 elec­tion. 
Chesley has served as a member of the Student Activities Board (SAB) as well as on Dance Marathon and the Class Gift Campaign. Smith has also participated in Dance Marathon and has served on the first year, soph­omore and junior boards. 
Neither Chesley nor Smith has sat on SGA. 
One of their main goals is to be a strong voice for the stu­dent body, Chesley said. 
“We will reach out to [the student body], and we want [them] to reach out to us and all of SGA,” she said. “We have open minds that are ready for your thoughts and ideas.” 
Chesley and Smith also want to work on increased commu­nication between SGA and campus clubs. 
“We want to see more inte­gration of the clubs on cam­pus, more support, more open communication,” Chesley 
see CHESLEY/page 4 


Photo courtesy of Rachel Chesley Rachael Chesley, right, and Laura Smith, left, were elected SGA pres­ident and vice president Feb. 26. They will take office April 1. 


Students elect leaders for SAB, SDB, RHA during Feb. 26 elections 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s College chose new leaders for the Student Activities Board (SAB), Student Diversity Board (SDB) and Residence Hall Association (RHA). The elections took place on Feb. 26. 
Student Activities Board 
With plans to “bring a new face to Student Activities Board,” sopho­more Jennifer Kline said she and sophomore Allie Courtney are excit­ed to take the reigns as SAB lead­ers. 
Courtney and Kline won SAB president and vice president uncon­tested. 
see SAB/page 6 



Alum wins Amazon writing contest to get novel published 
selected as the grand prize get a novel published ever The panel that reviewed the ing to do with him. 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 

winner out of more than 6,500 since I graduated from Notre top three manuscripts includ-“The main character was 
News Writer 

manuscript Dame in 1977.” ed “Secret Life of Bees” author inspired by a neighbor of mine entries. As the winner of the compe-Sue Monk Kidd, “Alphabet who had lost his wife shortly For Notre Dame alumnus “I got a 
tition, King landed a $25,000 Mystery Series” author Sue before I met him,” King said. Jim King, a long-awaited call one 
publishing contract with The Grafton, literary agent Barney “Over the years the house he dream came true last May day from a 
Viking Press to publish his Karpfinger and Penguin Press built with his own hands was when he received an unex-guy from 
novel, “Bill Warrington’s Last Vice President and Editor-in-falling apart around him.” pected call from Amazon on a Amazon 
Chance.” The novel is due for Chief Eamon Dolan. In the novel, Warrington train ride into New York City. and he told 
release in August. King’s novel is the story of a decides the only way to bring King, a member of the Class me that I 
“The total number of manu-man, Bill Warrington, who is his family back together is to 
scripts was around 6,500 and diagnosed with Alzheimer’s kidnap his 15-year-old grand-finalists for the second annual three final-I had entered the contest disease, although King never daughter April, who dreams of Amazon Breakthrough Novel ists,” King almost on a lark,” King said. explicitly mentions the disease becoming a rock star. The two Award, an international com-said. “Of “I almost forgot about it in the book. Warrington is try-of them take off across petition seeking the “next pop-course I just wanted to scream because I didn’t think I stood a ing to reconnect with his three ular novel.” He would later be because I [have been] trying to chance to win.” adult children who want noth-see NOVEL/page 4 of 1977, was one of three was one of 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER American Studies Dept. starts club page 3  Shamrock shake has returned page 10  Women’s basketball page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Tuesday, March 2, 2010 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Freshman flashback 
Junior year is a time where you are apparently focused on the future. Lately, I’ve been so focused on the future, that I’ve noticed I’ve carefully compartmentalized my past. 
Now, not all mem­ories are being sup­pressed because of their traumatic con­tent. Even the “traumatic events” of my freshman year are on the whole pretty laugh­able. I was morti­fied to have to 

Jess Shaffer 
appear in a swim­suit in front a large 
Scene Editor 
group of people who didn’t know me yet but who I’d be spending my college career with. My solution was to toss on an old rac­ing suit from my Varsity swimming days, avoid mirrors and get in and out as quickly as possible. After drying off with the miniscule towels provided by the university, I rushed home to my room where I got the first glance in a mirror that day. It wasn’t until then that I discovered that my racing suit was indeed quite old … so used that it finally became transparent. My entire­ly sheer suit in fact turned out to be an inadequate covering of my birthday suit. 
That was just the start of my hap­hazard Freshman year. There was also the day where I wiped out face first on the floor of DeBartolo. And the day where I was called to front of the sta­dium seating, 150-person lecture, because I was late. After serving as a live human model in the professor’s lecture, I climbed 100 stairs to the applause of my friends who thought it was the funniest thing they’d seen that day. 
Admittedly, all the memories I’ve imparted so far are traumatic. But I swear I’m not repressing them, I’m simply forgetting them in the jumble of my fragile 20 year old mind. I also usually forget great memories like see­ing my mom’s face for the first time since I started college. Her look of shock and horror that I had pierced my nose in our three-month separa­tion was brilliant. There was the time I attended my first Scene meeting, and of course seeing my first print byline. There was the day I befriended my current, beloved roommate. I appar­ently went up to her, said I recognized her from a class and had decided we should be friends. There was the day my boat fell apart at Fisher Regatta and me, and four other freshman, swam the bits to other end of St. Mary’s Lake. 
During one of the best days of my life, someone turned to me and said “I can’t wait until this becomes a memo­ry.” The point is, I recovered from my clumsiness, changed out of my see-through bathing suit and have in some ways lost the thrill of being at Notre Dame for the first time. The good and the bad, they all pass. But there is not reason not to hang onto the savory memory of moments that shaped a simple, forgettable day or the most defining experiences of your life. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffe1@nd.edu 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT WAS T E  IG LIG T OF T E OLYMPICS? 







Jerry Shields  Richard Si  Sam Burke  Andrew Alea  Jessica Fay  
senior  freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  
Morrissey  Siegfried  Pasquerilla West  Stanford  Pasquerilla West  
“America’s  “USA beating  “Curling.”  “Shaun White’s  “The USA- 
hockey failure.”  Canada.”  gold medal  Canada hockey  
run.”  game.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Calie Mohamed, Katie Adams and Marilia Figueiredo enjoy the rare sunshine in the middle of the South Bend winter Monday by moving a futon to the middle of South Quad. 


OFFBEAT 
Russian chimp sent to rehab 
MOSCOW — A Russian chimpanzee has been sent to rehab by zookeepers to cure the smoking and beer-drinking habits he has picked up, a popular daily reported on Friday. An ex-performer, Zhora became aggressive at his circus and was transferred to a zoo in the southern Russian city of Rostov, where he fathered several baby chimps, learned to draw with markers and picked up his two vices. 
“The beer and cigarettes were ruining him. He would pester passers-by for booze,” the Komsomolskaya Pravda paper said. 

It added he has now been transferred to the city of Kazan, about 500 miles east of Moscow, for rehabilitation treatment. 
Goat leads cops on 30­minute police chase 
ODESSA, Texas – All over town ran a lone goat as Odessa police and ani­mal control officers tried to catch the roaming ani­mal. The report to police came in Saturday as a sheep on the loose. Officers then determined it was a goat loping through a Taco Bell park­ing lot, a park and the dorm area at the University of Texas-Permian Basin. 
It took four police offi­cers, two animal control officers and one off-duty police officer on motorcy­cle to corral the goat after about 30 minutes. 
Animal control officers subdued the goat with a tranquilizer gun and took custody of it. 
There was no immediate word on who owned the goat. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight wednesday thursday 



IN BRIEF 
An exhibit titled “All Art is Propaganda” will open at 8 a.m. today in Special Collections Room 102 of the Hesburgh Library. 
A funeral mass for Dr. Gail Walton, director of music at the Basilica, in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart will be held at 9: 30 a.m. today. 
“Markings by Koo Kyung Sook” wll be on display in the Milly and Fritz Kaeser Mestrovic Studio Gallery of the Snite Museum of Art. The exhibit will open at 10 a.m. today. 
Daily Mass will be held at 
11:30 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
The Department of Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences will host a seminar on “Small-scale Structures in Coastal Flows: Observations and Modeling” in Room 258 of Fitzpatrick Hall at noon today. 
Children’s storytime at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore will feature “My Heart is Like a Zoo” today at 11:00 a.m. and 


1:00 p.m. 
“Boundary-value Problems in the Theory of Lipid Membranes” will be discussed in Room 138 of DeBartolo Hall. The seminar will begin at 3:30 p.m. 
Catholic Common Ground will hold discussion groups at 8 p.m. tonight on sexual orientation issues in Stapleton Lounge of Le Mans Hall at Saint Mary’s College. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

friday saturday 

Atlanta 36 / 29 Boston 42 / 32 Chicago 34 / 27 Denver 51 / 34 Houston 59 / 37 Los Angeles 63 / 50 Minneapolis 37 / 18 New York 45 / 34 Philadelphia 45 / 32 Phoenix 76 / 54 Seattle 57 / 44 St. Louis 57 / 44 Tampa 67 / 47 Washington 47 / 37 
Tuesday, March 2, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 



CLC debates du Lac changes 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Council 
(CLC) debated recommenda­tions for du Lac revisions Monday, specifically focusing 
on 
medical amnesty and clarification of language. 

“We wanted this in written form for two reasons,” stu­dent body president Grant Schmidt said. “One is to have this on record for future reference, and two, we wanted a response from [Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Mark Poorman] as to why or why not these rec­

ommendations 
would be adopted.” 


The Council passed four resolutions to be sent to Office of Residence Life and Housing (ORLH) after con­siderable discussion. 
The Council focused on the recommendation for a med­ical amnesty policy. 
“We realize that we want this to be educative,” chief 
of staff Ryan Brellenthin said. “We want it to change student behavior so they can actively seek out help for their friends.” 
Debate was raised over whether a rigid policy should be recommended, or if ORLH should present a more formal statement simi­lar to an honor code. 
“Having the guidelines there makes it easier to make a decision in a situa­tion where student is already irrational,” Student Senate representative Claire Sokas said. “You are not able to weigh the pros and cons unless you know what is going to happen.” 
Schmidt said Student Senate has already passed a resolution recommending the University adopt a for­mal medical amnesty policy. 
Student representative John DeLacio said many freshmen specifically do not know or understand the University’s position on med­ical amnesty, and a policy supported by the ORLH would send a “strong mes­sage” on this subject. 
This discussion was not resolved and remains on the table for future CLC meet­ings. 
CLC members also recom­mended a serious considera­tion of the language used when ORLH discusses sanc­tions in du Lac. The Council will ask that the du Lac revi­sions include changing the word “shall” to the word 
“ m a y ”  t o  c l a r i f y  v a r i o u s  
texts.  
“ I t  s e e m s  l i k e  a  s m a l l  

change,” Schmidt said. “But it is important.” 
The recommendation states the change should be made to “broaden the 
options of the Office of Residence Life and Housing.” 
Changing the words would allow a more “case-by-case” judgment, Brellenthin said. 
This recommendation was previously discussed when Associate Vice President for Residence Life Bill Kirk said part of the du Lac revisions would clarify the language to match up with the actions of ORLH. 
CLC members also wanted to distinguish between the jurisdictions of Indiana state law and the laws of other nations and states where students may reside. They specifically suggested du Lac should clarify this distinc­tion. 
“The spirit of this recom­mendation is to clarify that students are not subject to Indiana state law at all times but to the law of the nation 
or state where they are residing,” Brellenthin said. 
The Council members also unanimously supported a recommendation for contin­uing service hours as a sanc­tion, an issue that Kirk specifically asked CLC to consider. 
Other recommendations for future meetings address first-time incidents of intoxi­cation within a student’s res­idence hall, discipline at lower administrative levels, undergraduate tailgating policy and the issue of drink­ing games in dorms. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 



American Studies club awaits official status 

By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
Although Notre Dame ’s Department of American Studies has been in exis ­tence for nearly 40 years, the American Studies club is a recent addition to the University. 
The club, still waiting for official recognition from the Student Activities Office (SAO), began the initial for­mation process last semes­ter, according to Jason Ruiz, assistant professor of American Studies. 
“The department hopes to help form a community among the American Studies majors,” he said. “That is really our goal in sponsoring the club.” 
Ruiz said the students who founded the club were look­ing for a way to enrich the meaning of their major. 
“The club will give mem­bers an opportunity to meet their fellow students, as well as professors, outside 
of the classroom and in a more relaxed setting, ” he said. “And if that isn ’t enough, we’ll also be mak­ing t-shirts because, appar­ently, Notre Dame students love t-shirts.” 
Senior Cynthia Curley, one of the club’s founders, said her primary motivation in starting the club was to get young majors involved in the American Studies com­munity on both an academic and social level. 
“Beyond bringing all the majors together, we wanted to bring American Studies to the rest of Notre Dame,” she said. “We study the com ­plexities of the American identity, or identities, and it’s really challenging and enlightening.” 
Junior Amanda Johnson, acting vice president of the club, said once the club is 
officially established, the members hope to sponsor at least one event each month. Possible events include film screenings, movie nights and field trips. According to Johnson, plans for a trip to the Chicago Art Institute are currently underway. 
“We want to make sure people know what American Studies is and increase the presence of American Studies as a major on cam­pus,” she said. 
Although the club current­ly consists of only American Studies majors, non-majors are certainly welcome, Johnson said. 
“Hopefully we’ll be grant­ed the status of an official student organization by April, and then things can really get started,” she said. 
The club ’s first trivia night, hosted by the Department of American Studies, will take place March 18 from 8 p.m. to 10 
p.m. at Alexander’s Grill in South Bend. 
Students interested in joining the American Studies club should contact Ruiz. 

Contact Emily Schrank at eshrank@nd.edu 



page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 2, 2010 
Studentgovernmentjobsopen 

By CARLY LANDON 
News Writer 
Each year, a new student government regime comes to office, bringing a fresh crop of students with them in order to put their agenda into effect. 
Student body president-elect Catherine Soler and vice presi­dent-elect Andrew Bell, whose terms begin on April 1, are now looking for students to fill positions in Student Senate, different committees and other student government positions. 
Soler and Bell said they are looking for hard-working stu­dents to fill these spots. 
“To be a chair [of a student government committee], you have to be here all [year] so you can’t be studying abroad, but there are lots of positions available to anyone studying abroad,” Soler said. “We really want to encourage anyone who wants to apply. We are looking for people who are passionate, hard-working, genuinely moti­vated and interesting.” 
Bell said dedication is an important part of the job. 
“When I think of who we are looking for, I am reminded of this story: One of the commit­tee chairs this past year was thanked by Grant for her work, and she said, ‘You don’t have to thank me. I’m doing it because I care.’ I really want people like that,” Bell said. 
Soler and Bell also empha­sized passion as integral to the functions of student govern­ment. 
“We want people who are passionate about their posi­tions, passionate about Notre Dame and passionate about making a difference,” Bell said. 
Soler and Bell also want to reshape student government to make it more about the stu­dents. 
“We don’t want résumé builders or people who like the titles. Those are legitimate things because we are Notre Dame, but we want people who care about improving stu­dent life, social concerns or all the other community topics,” Bell said. 
“Andrew and I are really in it for the students, not the power,” Soler said. “We want to make a difference, so stu­dents with a good attitude who will really put their heart into it are the best candidates for these positions. We need peo­ple who want to improve stu­dent life just like we do.” 
Soler and Bell said they want to reach out to a wider pool of possible applicants by breaking out of the mold of simply choosing former student gov­ernment members. In order to hire students with new per­spectives, they said they are looking for a wide range of applicants. 
“We want people with past experience but no amount of experience can compensate for a deep passion for what they are working with,” Bell said. 
Soler is currently president of the sophomore class and Bell is a Knott Hall senator. 
Soler said positions on the University Affairs, Residence Life and Community Relations committees are generally pop­ular. 
“I think that we are going to be careful in picking each of the positions, but there are a few that personally stick out to me,” Bell said. 
Bell said the Social Concerns Committee chair and University Affairs Committee positions are important posi­tions. 
“Catherine and I really want to focus on the [Social Concerns Committee] this year,” Bell said. “Our vision is about making student govern­ment not only about improving student life through offering conveniences or providing opportunities … but also by realizing that we can make a huge difference in the world.” 
Applications for the various student government positions are available at the student government office in LaFortune Student Center or online at studentgover­nment.nd.edu. 
Contact Carly Landon at clandon1@nd.edu 

Ally Week reaches out to LGBTQ community 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
In order to understand what it means to support members of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and questioning (LGBTQ) community, Saint Mary’s College is hosting Ally Week, Laurel Javors, vice pres­ident of the Straight and Gay Alliance (SAGA), said. 
“[Ally Week] is a week to honor the brave allies support­ing the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer and ques­tioning community,” Javors said. 
The week will also provide an opportunity for others to come out as an ally and friend of the LGBTQ community, Javors said. 
Ally Week began Monday and offered free t-shirts and rain­bow ribbons. A booth was set up in the Student Center Atrium during lunch and din­ner and offered information about what it means to be an ally. 
“We hope that more students will realize that being an ally does not mean a person is gay. It only means that that person support human rights for every human,” Javors said. “We also hope to combat some of the homophobia on campus, [for example] tearing down signs advertising our events, using the word gay as a synonym for dumb or speaking poorly of our LGBTQ brothers and sisters.” 
Events will continue through­out the week, Javors said. A discussion will be held Tuesday titled “Catholic Theological Union: Common Ground Dialogue on Homosexuality” in Stapleton Lounge at 8 p.m. 
During the dialogue, stu­dents, faculty and staff are invited to hear a variety of per­spectives about homosexuality from members of the Saint Mary’s community. 
The film “Prayers for Bobby” will be shown Wednesday. The movie will take place in Vander Vennet at 6 p.m. 
“[The film] is a Lifetime movie based on the true story of a teenage boy who commits suicide after feeling rejection from the religious messages instilled in him by his commu­nity and his mother,” Javors said. 
“In Good Conscience,” a movie about Sr. Jean Gramick, a Catholic sister who is work­ing to gain acceptance and support for the LGBTQ commu­nity within the Catholic Church, will be presented at 
6:30 p.m. Thursday in Vander Vennet. 
The week will conclude with rainbow ribbons, information and any extra t-shirts put on display in the Cushwa-Leighton Library. 
The week is sponsored by SAGA, the Justice Education department, the Center for Spirituality, the Office of Civic and Social Engagement, the Social Work Club and the Africa Faith and Justice Network. 
Javors said SAGA has worked hard to insure Saint Mary’s College remains a safe place for LGBTQ persons and allies. 
“It is a place where all are welcome to be themselves and not have to pretend to be something other else in order to appease the status quo,” Javors said. “Just as Christ welcomed those on the fringes of Palestinian society, so do we as members of the Straight and Gay Alliance.” 
Javors said SAGA has been on campus for several years. The group has hosted a variety of events to provide support and love for the LGBTQ com­munity. 
“I want to ensure that our heterosexual allies know how much they are needed in the lives of LGBTQ persons. Without them, it would be even harder than it already is for LGBTQ persons to come out,” Javors said. “Our allies provide us with hope, support and love when others in society reject us. This is an opportunity for more students to become allies by learning how simple it is to 
be  an  ally.  The  only  two  
requirements are  tolerance  
and love.”  

Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@stmarys.edu 
Novel 
continued from page 1 
America. Warrington forces his children to come together and talk to one another in order to locate April and him. 
“The book is about a man trying to bring the family together before it’s too late,” King said. 
The novel took King about a year and a half to write. He began writing the novel in a masters program he had entered after nearly 30 years of being away from school. 
“I found out about [the con­test] on an agent’s blog and decided to investigate it and found out I was a day or two from missing the deadline,” King said. “I put together a pitch, description and manu­script and sent it in.” 
“Bill Warrington’s Last Chance” was already com­plete when King spotted the contest. King had previously written two novels that were not published. Winning the Amazon Breakthrough Novel Award was truly King’s “first chance.” 
“I majored in American Studies. [Professor] Elizabeth Christman, who recently passed away, really encour­aged me. She was confident that one day, I would have a novel published,” King said. 
King is currently a free­lance corporate writer but hopes his breakthrough novel will lead him into a career of fiction writing. 
“I’ve already started on another novel, and I’m hop­ing this is beginning of a dif­ferent kind of writing career,” he said. 
King tells aspiring writers getting published may take awhile, but the key to success is just to keep trying. 
“It helps to be a stubborn Irishman — which I am. It may take you awhile but keep writing, keep submit­ting, and don’t give up on the dream.” 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 
Chesley 
continued from page 1 
said. 
Smith said this would include members of SGA attending meetings of other clubs when possible as well as holding events that bring together club leaders to create a dialogue among them. 
They also have goals to con­nect alumnae back to the cam­pus community. 
“We want to stress alumnae networking,” Chesley said. “This College is built on the foundation of tradition, and one of the things that attracted me to this college is the alumnae base.” 
Chesley and Smith said their mission can be stated in two words: “Community” and “integrity.” 
Both Chesley and Smith have studied abroad and hope to bring those experiences to campus as well. 
“Everybody is involved in some way, and we want to encourage students to be the face of Saint Mary’s,” Chesley said. “We want them to be this face of Saint Mary’s whether they are here on campus or off campus and even after they graduate.” 
Smith said she was happy to see student involvement on campus during the elections. 
“I feel so grateful to have all the support that we did this past week. The student body really responded well to our efforts, and it really feels worthwhile to know that we were able to at least see some excitement on campus because of it,” Smith said. 
Chesley said she looks for­ward to taking on the role of student body president. 
“I am excited for the opportu­nity to be a visible and involved voice for the students,” Chesley said. “This opportunity will be a challenging and rewarding one, and it will surely be an opportunity to provide a fresh perspective and to be an enthused and involved leader for the student body.” 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 


World & Nation 
Tuesday, March 2, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Mexican police arrest sex trafficker 
MEXICO CITY — Federal police in central Mexico have captured a man wanted by the FBI for allegedly trafficking women and minors for prostitution in the United States. 
The Attorney General’s Office says police acting on an anonymous tip captured Mexican suspect Gerardo Salazar on a high­way in the central state of Tlaxcala. 
The office says Salazar is being held for attempted bribery and possible extradition to face the U.S. charges. It said in a statement Monday that when police stopped Salazar, he offered them a house and a car to let him go. 
The FBI alleges Gerardo Salazar used beat­ings, threats and deception to force Mexican women and girls to work as prostitutes in the Houston, Texas, area in 2004 and 2005. 
African sports journalists kidnapped 
LAGOS, Nigeria — Gunmen kidnapped three sports journalists Monday working for an African satellite channel in the oil-rich and restive Niger Delta, a region that has seen a lull in violence because of a govern­ment amnesty program, a colleague said. 
The SuperSport journalists, including two Nigerians and one South African, were near Warri on their way to an airport when they were attacked by unknown assailants, SuperSport journalist and announcer Charles Anazodo told The Associated Press. Anazodo said the South Africa-based sports network, distributed by satellite throughout the continent, had yet to receive a ransom demand. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Base fails nuclear inspections 
HELENA, Mont. — Two Air Force units responsible for the nuclear missiles ware­housed in Montana failed inspections last month, military officials said Monday. 
There is no threat to the public and the units at Malmstrom Air Force Base near Great Falls are still performing their missions while cor­recting the problems, according to Global Strike Command and Air Force Materiel Command, which oversee the units. 
The 341st Missile Wing and 16th Munitions Squadron received “unsatisfactory” ratings in February from Air Force inspector general teams evaluating the units’ ability to carry out their missions. Neither Global Strike Command, which oversees the 341st Missile Wing, nor Air Force Materiel Command, which oversees the 16th Munitions Squadron, would detail the problems found in the nuclear sure­ty inspections, citing security reasons. 
Cal students protest fee hikes 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. — University of California students from around the state have traveled to the state capital to protest steep fee hikes and cuts to higher education funding. 
More than 150 students gathered Monday outside the Capitol in Sacramento, waving signs and urging lawmakers to take action against rising fees. 
The demonstration comes three days before a planned “National Day of Action for Public Education.” Students from the UC, California State University and community college systems will hold rallies, marches, teach-ins and class walkouts throughout the state on Thursday. 
Similar protests are planned around the country. 
LOCAL NEWS 
State Senate passes microbrew bill 
INDIANAPOLIS — The Indiana Senate has given final legislative approval to a bill allowing Indiana’s microbreweries to sell beer for carryout on Sundays. 
The Senate voted 28-17 Monday to endorse House changes to the bill. The measure now heads to the desk of Gov. Mitch Daniels for his consideration. 
The bill would limit the amount of beer a micro­brewery can sell to about two cases per transac­tion. Indiana’s 32 microbreweries have limits on how much beer they can make each year. 
The bill also repeals a law that prohibits alcohol sales during voting hours on election days. 

Chicagoans fight against gun ban 
Average citizens take 28-year-old restriction all the way to U.S. Supreme Court 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — A couple wor­ries that burglars who tried to break in when the wife was home alone will return. A retiree fears the drug deal­ers and junkies just outside his window will attempt — again — to steal what he spent a lifetime earning. And a businessman wants to pro­tect himself as he could when he was a police officer. 
Together, they are the face of the most serious challenge yet to Chicago’s 28-year-old handgun ban. 
On Tuesday, the four will take their seats inside the 
U.S. Supreme Court as their attorneys argue a lawsuit that bears their names: David and Colleen Lawson, Otis McDonald and Adam Orlov. 
The four plaintiffs are not stereotypical gun rights advocates. They don’t repre­sent the agenda of any national group or organize rallies. Instead they repre­sent average Chicagoans — the kind of people that oppo­nents of the city’s ban say should be allowed to protect themselves from gun vio­lence. 

“Some people want to stereotype advocates in any case, to make them look like a bunch of crazies,” said Alan Gura, a Virginia attor-was home alone with the flu Migration of blacks. He heard about that call and ney who will argue the case. and three men tried to jimmy worked his way up from a threatened to kill him. “But these are plaintiffs who open her back door. They ran janitor to a maintenance “I just got the feeling that reflect the city in which they off when they saw her engineer, a good job that I’m on my own,” said live.” through a window. allowed him and his wife to McDonald. “The fact is that 
Chicago’s ban on the sale “That’s how close they buy a house on the city’s far so many people my age have and possession of handguns were to getting in,” said South Side in 1972, where worked hard all their life, has been weathering legal Lawson, 51. they raised their family. getting a nice place for them-challenges for years. But it The Lawsons believe a In recent years, McDonald, selves to live in ... and having gained newfound attention handgun would allow them now a grandfather, has one (handgun) would make after the Supreme Court in to protect their family and watched the neighborhood us feel a lot more comfort­2008 struck down a similar give them the kind of peace deteriorate, the quiet nights able.” handgun ban in the District of mind Colleen Lawson had he once enjoyed replaced by Orlov didn’t grow up with of Columbia. The court now as a child, when she knew the sound of gunfire, drunk-guns and doesn’t hunt. But plans to decide whether the her grandmother kept a pis-en fights and shattering his four years as a police offi­ruling on D.C., a city with tol in her apron. liquor bottles. cer only underscored his unique federal status, should “I knew without any doubt Three times, he says, his belief that people hurt by the apply to local and state laws, my grandmother would be house has been broken into city’s handgun ban are those too. able protect us,” she said. “I — once the front door was obeying it. 
The lead plaintiffs in the can’t say that to my chil-wide open and the burglars “The law only prohibits the Chicago suit decided to fight dren.” still out front when his wife actions of those who are law-the city’s gun ban for differ-Seventy -six -year-old and daughter came home abiding,” said Orlov, 40. “The ent reasons. McDonald knows the feeling. from church. A few years more law-abiding the more 
For the Lawsons, it He came to Chicago from ago, he called police to report likely you are to be vulnera­stemmed from a scare in Louisiana when he was 17, gunfire, only to be confronted ble to the activities of crimi­2006, when Colleen Lawson as part of the Great by a man who told him he’d nals.” 

CHILE 

Rescue efforts continue, death toll rises 
Some coastal towns were almost hear signs of life inside the building. 
Associated Press 

obliterated — first shaken by the Firefighters had already pulled 25 
CONCEPCION — Rescuers found quake, then slammed by a tsunami survivors and nine bodies from the signs of life in the wreckage of a 15-that carried whole houses inland and structure. story building Monday as the world crushed others into piles of sticks. Mayor Jacqueline van Rysselberghe offered aid to victims of an earth-Shocked survivors were left without told Radio Cooperativa that some quake that killed more than 700 peo-power, water or food. food aid was arriving in the city of ple. Looters roamed the streets even In Concepcion, the biggest city near 200,000 Monday for distribution to after troops and police arrested the epicenter, rescuers heard the the hungry. dozens of people for violating a cur-knock of trapped victims inside a top-Electricity was still out, however, few. pled 70-unit apartment building and water was scarce and looters re-
The toll of dead rose to 723, with began to drill through thick walls to emerged at dusk despite beefed up 19 others missing, the National reach them, said fire department security. Dozens of people sacked Emergency Office announced, in a Commander Juan Carlos stores selling food, clothing and magnitude-8.8 quake that President Subercaseux. drugs, fleeing when police appeared Michelle Bachelet called “an emer-Only the chop of military helicop-to drive them away. Some struck gas gency without parallel in Chile’s his-ters flying overhead broke the silence stations, stealing cash from atten­tory.” demanded by rescuers straining to dants. 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 2, 2010 
Senate’s Administrative Affairs department, however, was according to Brown. cussing major academic deci-
Committee, said. made in part to broaden the sions.”
Econ 
continued from page 1 
Department of Economics and Policy Studies. 
“We envision [the minor] as part of the Center for Social Concerns,” McGreevy said. 
Faculty Senate passed a reso­lution calling for ECOP faculty to be allowed to return to the reestablished Department of Economics. 
The resolution protested the “removal of a faculty member from a continuing department without his or her consent.” 
Because current ECOP faculty members were tenured in the pre-2003 Department of Economics, Faculty Senate claims these faculty members “have been involuntarily excluded from the Department of Economics,” according to the resolution. 
Faculty Senate was concerned about the “treatment of the fac­ulty in this particular case,” Seth Brown, chair of Faculty 
SAB 
continued from page 1 
Courtney has been a member of SAB for two years. She has served as co-chair of the Entertainment Committee. She also helped bring poet Gabriela Garcia Medina to campus in the fall of 2009. 
“I am passionate about helping students become engaged in the Saint Mary’s community,” Courtney said. “I want to create an environment where students are excited to come to, and have fun, at events. I think that stu­dents deserve great events, and want to be part of the team that plans these events for the stu­dents.” 
Kline has also been involved with SAB for the past two years. She has served as co-chair of the Traditional Committee for one year. She also attended the National Association for Campus Activities National Convention (NACA Conference) in Nashville, Tenn., last year. This year she attended the National Conference in Boston. 
“Ever since I began the Board 
Concerns about Academic Freedom 
Economics and Policy Studies faculty members protested the plan to eliminate the depart­ment in a letter released last month. The letter expresses the unanimous opinion of the ECOP faculty, department chair Jennifer Warlick said. 
Dissolving the department would “undermine the strong and vibrant conversation about economics that currently exists within our University,” the let­ter said. 
“[The Academic Council’s action] represents a dangerous precedent for academic free­dom and university gover­nance,” the letter said. 
Dissolving the department inhibits ECOP faculty members’ ability to “participate in the education of our students, to conduct our research, and to engage in service activities,” the letter said. 
The decision to dissolve the 
freshman year, I have loved every minute of it,” Kline said. “Last year at the NACA Conference in Nashville, I was able to really get involved in the behind-the-scenes work of planning campus activi­ties. The Conference, both this year and last, reinforced my drive to bring the very best events to campus and put my acquired knowledge to good use.” 
Courtney and Kline plan to uti­lize student feedback in order to gain insight as to what is wanted on campus. 
“We both feel student surveys are necessary and helpful to bring and plan successful acts around campus,” Kline said. 
Student Diversity Board 
With new ideas to expand the Student Diversity Board, junior Morgan Gay and sophomore Kelly Reidenbach are ready to take office as the new president and vice president. 
They were the only ticket to run during the Feb. 26 election. 
Gay has been a member of SDB for two years. She has worked as chair for the SDB Bonfire Committee. She has also served as a member of the Committee for Diversity Desserts and has “economics conversation” at the University, McGreevy said. 
“We’re not eliminating their ideas, and we hope they contin­ue to make as big a contribution as they have made,” he said. “The faculty may be in different units, but I’ve always thought that’s less important than the broader conversation.” 
McGreevy said the new Department of Economics will be “open to different ideas and methodologies,” as opposed to embracing only one approach to economics. 
Faculty Senate did not argue “that there was some particular affront to academic freedom in this face,” Brown said. 
The Senate’s concerns about academic freedom were part of its concerns about tenure. 
“The purpose of tenure is to safeguard academic freedom,” Brown said. 
Reducing the protections of tenure makes faculty members less willing to pursue unpopular or cutting-edge research, 
been the College Track commit­tee member of the Diverse Student Leadership Conference (DSLC). As College Track commit­tee member, Gay has been responsible for recruiting stu­dents from other universities and colleges to attend DSLC, which will be held from March 17-19 at the College. 
“When I came to college, I heard about the Student Diversity Board and I think it’s really important to promote diversity,” Gay said. “It all starts with treat­ing people with respect. With the events that SDB holds, just learn­ing about other cultures and understanding them and their point of view, I think [we] can make a difference.” 
Reidenbach has been a mem­ber of SDB for one year. She has acted as the DSLC Sodexo Chair. 
Student Involvement 
Student Senate passed a reso­lution calling for the delay of the decision to dissolve the department last week. 
“We opposed this on the grounds that student input has­n’t been included,” student body chief of staff Ryan Brellenthin said. 
Student body president Grant Schmidt said he has gotten feedback from many students. 
“We emphasized that students were frustrated with the process,” Schmidt said. 
After the decision was made to dissolve the department, stu­dent government hopes to make the Department of Economics as academically viable as possi­ble, Schmidt said. 
“I have confidence the Economics Department will continue to be successful,” Schmidt said. “It’s important for us to continue to be a part of the conversation. 
“We want to have a spot at the table when it comes to dis-
She has also been on the SDB Bonfire Committee and the Committee for the Hunger Banquet as well. 
Gay and Reidenbach said they are planning on having many of the same events that have been held in the past, but hope to expand them. 
“We just want to try and expand, get more people in the Saint Mary’s community, as well as the Notre Dame and Holy Cross Community involved in what we do,” Reidenbach said. 
Gay added that they hope to get the word out and generate more interest and involvement. 
“I think we have really good events,” Gay said. “I really like what we do with them but I’d like to expand them and get more people to come to them because I really think that’s what we’re 

Brellethin said he hopes to work with McGreevy to “ensure that the aspects of the old department that were beneficial continue to exist,” he said. 
“We want to make sure the decision doesn’t take anything away from the undergraduate education,” he said. 
McGreevy cited the sensitive nature of closing a department as a limitation to how much he could dialogue with students before the decision was final­ized, but he said he is open to student input. 
“Students need to take charge of their education at Notre Dame,” he said. 
McGreevy said he welcomes student involvement in econom­ics now that ECOP has been dis­solved. 
“I am happy to think through with groups of students how we can best build an economics major at Notre Dame,” he said. 
Contact John Tierney at jtierne1@nd.edu 

here for.” 
Residence Hall Association 
Juniors Marianne Jones and Jessica Robbins will take over as Residence Hall Association presi­dent and vice president on April 
1. They were the only ticket to run for the office. 
Jones will take her place on the SGA board, replacing the current president, Cristen Dalessandro. 
RHA currently oversees activi­ties within the four residence halls on campus as well as the senior living apartment, Opus Hall. Most recently, they held a formal on Feb. 27. 
Ashley Charnley contributed to this report. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 



The Observer 

Business
Tuesday, March 2, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

IN BRIEF 
Google acquires Picnik photo editing 
MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. — Google Inc. is adding online photo editing service Picnik to its basket of recent acquisitions. 
Financial terms of the deal announced Monday weren’t disclosed. 
The Internet search leader said it doesn’t plan immediate changes at Picnik, which employs 20 people in Seattle. 
Picnik’s software is used for editing images on Google’s photo sharing service, Picasa, and at other Web sites, including Facebook and Yahoo Inc.’s Flickr. 
The deal brings Jonathan Sposato, Picnik’s CEO, back to Google for a second tour of duty. 
In early 2005, Sposato sold another startup called PhatBits to Google, where he remained for nearly a year before Picnik lured him away. 
Picnik is the eighth small technology company Google bought in seven months. The shopping spree reflects Google managers are renewing their optimism after limiting their spending in 2009. 
Google also wants to buy AdMob, a mobile advertising service, for $750 million, but that deal is still being reviewed by antitrust regula­tors. 
Company pushes to mine Montana coal 
BILLINGS, Mont. — The push to mine Montana coal continued to pick up steam Monday, as a company with Texas roots said it was pursuing mines northeast of Billings that could tap into an estimated 1.2 billion ton underground seam of the low-cost fuel. 
The proposal is the latest in a string of coal mine openings and announcements for Montana, which has more coal than any other state — but relatively few mines. 
Nick Shakesby, chief operating officer at Maple Carpenter Creek, said Monday that a new mine could be running by 2014, at a site the company controls about 50 miles northeast of Billings. 
“We’re not interested in sitting on it. We’re interested in developing it and putting in a mine,” he added. “We’re marketing it offshore — Asia and India.” 
The Billings-based company is owned by Jack Hanks of Dallas, founder and former chairman of Maple Energy. It has a permit application pending before state regulators to dig a 300,000 ton test pit near rural Melstone. 
UNITED KINGDOM 

Global holdings see strong rise 
European countries seek rescue deal for Greece; Japan’s stocks make sharp recovery 
Associated Press  
LONDON — World stock  
markets rose strongly  
Monday amid mounting  
hopes that European coun­ 
tries will announce some  
rescue deal for Greece and  
the release of a raft of fair­ 
ly upbeat manufacturing  
surveys.  
In Europe, the FTSE 100  
index of leading British  
shares closed up 51.42  
points, or 1 percent, at  
5,405.95 while Germany’s  
DAX rose 115.05 points, or  
2.1 percent, to 5,713.51.  
The CAC-40 in France was  
60.74 points, or 1.6 per­ 
cent, higher at 3,769.54.  
On Wall Street, the Dow  
Jones industrial average  
was up 71.20 points, or  
0.75 percent, at 10,396.46  
around midday New York  
time while the broader  
Standard & Poor’s 500  
index rose 9.05 points, or  
0.8 percent, to 1,113.54.  
Reports of a plan to pre­ 
vent a Greek default came  
as the EU’s Monetary  
Affairs Commissioner Olli  
Rehn met in Athens with  
Greek Prime Minister  
George Papandreou and  
insisted that Greece take  
additional austerity meas-AP  
ures. A passer-by looks at a stock price indicator flashing the day’s gain at the Tokyo Stock  
“I want to encourage the Exchange. In Japan, the Nikkei 225 stock average is up about 56 points to 10,229.  
Greek authorities to con­ 
sider and announce addi­ activity,” said Mitul  In the wake of upbeat  benchmark jumped 448.23  
tional measures in the  Kotecha, an analyst at  surveys from the eurozone  points, or 2.2 percent, to  
coming days” to meet  Credit Agricole.  and Britain, investors were  21,056.93.  
deficit targets for 2010,  Kotecha thinks the mar- cheered to see that the ISM  Shanghai’s market was  
Rehn said.  ket reception to the  survey’s employment index  up 35.09, or 1.2 percent,  
The meeting took place  expected Greek bond issue  improved. That’s impor­ at 3,087.84, while  
amid reports the German  will be broadly positive  tant as investors position  Singapore rose 0.9 percent  
and French governments  given the EU assurances  themselves for Friday’s  and Taiwan climbed 1.9  
are preparing to support a  already in place. That cer- U.S. nonfarm payrolls  percent.  
bailout package involving  tainly appears to be the  report for February — the  Markets in South Korea,  
state-owned banks buying  view in the bond markets,  U.S. jobs report often sets  India and Thailand were  
Greek government bonds.  where the spread between  the market tone for a while  closed.  
Greece has to roll over a  Greek and German 10- after its release.  Oil prices advanced  
large amount of its debts  year yields continues to  “After a couple of shaky  alongside the rally in  
in the next couple of  narrow.  weeks of economic data,  stocks, with benchmark  
months and is expected to  Positive sentiment in  this has helped to calm  crude for April delivery up  
start shortly with a 10­ markets was boosted by  investors’ nerves some­ 16 cents to $79.82.  
year bond issue, worth as  positive manufacturing  what,” said Tim Hughes,  Despite an early relief  
much as euro5 billion  surveys around the world.  head of sales trading at IG  rally associated with the  
($6.8 billion).  Following recent signs that  Index.  prospective bailout of  
“Any aid will likely come  the global economic recov- Earlier in Asia, Japan’s  Greece, the euro was soon  
with demands for more  ery was stalling, the sur­ benchmark Nikkei 225  on the retreat, trading 0.9  
action to reduce Greece’s  veys for the eurozone,  stock index advanced  percent lower on the day  
yawning budget deficit,  Britain and the U.S. helped  46.03 points, or 0.5 per- at $1.35. A fall below  
which will fuel further  soothe investors’ concerns  cent, to 10,172.06, while  $1.3444 would mark a  
weakness in economic  for the time being.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng  new ten-month low.  

Maine lobster value drops with economy 
The low value is a reflection of the lobster. 
Associated Press 

poor economy worldwide and people Lobstermen have taken a huge hit 
PORTLAND — Maine lobstermen cutting luxury items out of their since the economy melted down in had a record harvest in 2009, but the budgets, he said. The value of last 2008, sending lobster prices to levels value of the catch continued to year’s harvest is $96 million less than not seen in decades. plunge amid the sour global econo-its peak value in 2005. Lobstermen last year got an aver-my. That means lobstermen have less age of $2.93 a pound, roughly the 
Lobstermen caught 75.6 million money to spend on new boats, pickup same price they were getting in pounds last year, up 8 percent from trucks, gear and other things in 1998. They averaged $3.50 a pound 2008, the Maine Department of Maine’s coastal communities. in 2008 and $4.39 a pound in 2007. Marine Resources announced “If there’s $20 million or $100 mil-Lobstermen were pleased with last Monday. But the value of the catch lion less they’re spending in their year’s catch, but the low prices — fell $23 million, to $221.7 million. local economies, that ripples through coupled with the higher costs of 
The catch numbers show the sup-grocery stores and gas stations and diesel and bait and new rope ply is in good shape and that lobster-things like that, just like the rest of required to reduce whale entangle-men are fishing hard to make up for the economy,” Lapointe said. ments — have forced fishermen to the lower prices they’re receiving, Maine is the nation’s lobster bread-rethink the way they do business, said Marine Resources Commissioner basket, accounting for 80 percent of said Dwight Carver, who fishes out of George Lapointe. the U.S. catch of the so-called Maine Beals Island in eastern Maine. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesday, March 2, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Madeline Buckley Meaghan Veselik Megan Doyle Allan Joseph Nikki Taylor Andrew Owens Graphics Scene Blair Chemidlin Caitlin Ferraro Viewpoint Ethan Bailey 

Spread the word to end the word 
Tomorrow, a human rights move­ment will sweep our country. Thousands of college students on hun­dreds of campuses, joined by students of all ages, are trying to jog the con­sciousness of a nation. They are 
Soeren Palumbo 
sensitizing 
Tim Shriver 
Americans to a subtle but perni-
Guest
cious prejudice 
Columnists
reflected in our language — in the common use of the slur “retard.” Every one of us can join their effort. It’s as simple as changing the way we speak. 
But are we fighting something that even exists? We say yes. 
Recently, one of the authors was shopping with his 14-year-old sister, Olivia Palumbo. With a slew of chil­dren’s books under her arm, Olivia bounded down an aisle, her brother in tow. As she pointed at something that caught her interest, her laugh nearly drowned out a taunting voice from behind: “Who let the retard in? Look guys, I can run like the retard!” The boy and his posse ran by, pointing. Olivia’s intellectual disability had attracted negative attention for years. She did not turn around. Nor did her brother. 
This prejudice exists. And it is viru­lent. 
Retard, like other slurs, does more than hurt feelings. These words crys­tallize discrimination and encapsulate marginalizing stereotypes. What slurs do against ethnic or other minorities, so does “retard” when used pejora­tively against people with intellectual disabilities. Because of their effects, society has made these forms of hate speech reprehensible. So it should be with “retard.” Olivia, her friends, her family and all those with intellectual disabilities deserve as much. 

But the word often appears in a subtler and, ultimately, more danger­ous form. We’ve all heard it before: 
A sports fan disparages an official, “Ref, are you a retard!?” A comedian accuses a celebrity of being “retard­ed.” A politician refers to his col­leagues as “f---ing retarded.” 
In these examples, the word “retard(ed)” seems to mean some­thing close to “stupid,” “incapable” or “undesirable.” And this seems like harmless fun. After all, if no one like Olivia is being made fun of, what’s the problem? The problem is this. Because of past use of “mental retar­dation” as a diagnostic term, “retard(ed)” became inextricably tied to people with intellectual and devel­opmental disabilities. When the R-word is used, these people are invoked by this connection. When society warps “retard(ed)” to mean something close to “worthless”, or “undesirable,” this bleeds into the image of those with intellectual dis­abilities and they are associated with this negativity. 
The bigotry is subtle but very real. Every pejorative use of the term “retard(ed)” reinforces this stereotype of undesirability. Olivia is neither incapable nor worthless. She is an incredible person with a wealth to contribute to the world. 
Unfortunately, she lives in a society that, through its language, demon­strates and perpetuates its belief to the contrary. The words we use blind us to the abilities and worth of people with intellectual disabilities, ultimate­ly robbing us of the invaluable contri­bution they offer. Is this not enough for us to reconsider our language? 
Tomorrow, on March 3, thousands of students are rallying their peers to challenge their language and pledge to end their pejorative use of the R-word. Their intentions are not to ban a word or censor society but rather to awaken others to the harmful effects of this label. 
Yet we ask for more than a single day of activism and a pledge. As many critics have pointed out, language is dynamic; if “retard” fades away, new words will rise as replacements. For this reason, this movement calls for a change of not only our language but also our actions and attitudes. We must go beyond words and embrace those oft-ignored members of society whose talents and personalities go forgotten and neglected. Volunteer for Special Olympics or Best Buddies, support legislation that promotes access to healthcare and education and encourage employers to hire peo­ple with intellectual disabilities. 
By recognizing these people as valu­able citizens, we chip away at the wall of intolerance and exclusion that has too long plagued our society. The first step is to change society’s language. Today and tomorrow, we challenge you to change yours. Give two minutes tomorrow and sign your pledge on the banners in Lafortune and the dining halls. 
Change the conversation. Spread the word to end the R-word. 
Soeren Palumbo, Notre Dame Class of 2011, and Tim Shriver, Yale Class of 2011, are co-founders of the Spread the Word to End the Word campaign. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“It is our choices, Harry, that show what we truly are, far more than our abilities.” 
Albus Dumbledore Hogwarts Headmaster 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I intend to live forever. So far, so good.” 
Stephen WrightAmerican actor and writer 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, March 2, 2010 page 9 
Undergraduate research integral to Notre Dame 
In response to Justin DeRosa’s letter in Viewpoint (“An argument against research,” Feb. 24), Mr. DeRosa is mis­taken in saying that Fr. Jenkins “in his inaugural address, asserted that he is simply commit­ted to ‘main-Dan Lindley taining’ [Notre 
Cecilia Lucero 
Dame’s] tradi­tional excel-Guest lence in under-Columnists graduate teach­ing.” This state­ment is nowhere in Fr. Jenkins’ address (see http://inauguration.nd.edu/cere­monies/inaugural_address.shtml), and the suggestion that Fr. Jenkins and the University are merely settling for a sta­tus quo in teaching is also unfounded. Instead, Fr. Jenkins was visionary in tying undergraduate research to his goal of constantly improving undergraduate education across the board. Undergraduate research is education, and research is service. As such, under­graduate research embodies the best of what Notre Dame has to offer. 
DeRosa’s letter shows that there are misunderstandings about research and the University’s promotion of it among undergraduates. At our new Center for Undergraduate Scholarly Engagement (CUSE) — which is one symbol of the University’s commitment to academic excellence — we try to dispel myths about research and intellectual pursuits overall. First, research is not diametri­cally opposed to teaching and learning, as some may think. In fact, research is the cutting edge of undergraduate edu­cation. Top universities around the nation and the world recognize this, and Notre Dame strives to be a leader in undergraduate research. Students flour­ish when they challenge themselves and venture into the unknown, investigating ideas and beliefs about themselves and others, cultures, the world ... whether through science, engineering, the humanities and arts, architecture or the social sciences and business. 
Second, research is a far broader enterprise than many believe. Undergraduate research involves not just laboratory experiments, but also critical analysis of texts and artifacts, ethnographies, oral histories, creative endeavors, studies of the theory and form that underlie creative works and so on. For many students across the University, research is an integral part of learning, one that takes students beyond the classroom. Through the research experience, students take full ownership of their education — pursuing their own questions, working independently many times, collaborating one-on-one with faculty members and becoming creators 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The hurtfulness of one word 
Someone once told me he loves people who have developmental disabilities because they remind him “just how neat God really is.” Unfortunately, most people do not share this man’s point-of-view. People with developmental disabili­ties are one of the most ostracized groups in America. Seventy percent of people with developmental dis­abilities are unemployed, 60 per­cent of parents do not want devel­opmentally disabled children to attend the same school as their children and over 90 percent of babies diagnosed with Down Syndrome are aborted. There is growing awareness about the value of people with developmental dis­abilities, but much of our country remains oblivious to the tangible benefits people with disabilities offer. 
On March 3, 2010, Special Olympics will hold its second annu­al “Spread the Word to End the Word” day, which raises awareness about the offensive use of the word “retarded” in casual conversation. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
The r-word is deeply offensive and demeaning to the special needs community, yet its use continues to be prevalent. This is because many people do not realize that the way the r-word is often used can bring a person with special needs to tears. 
Ending the use of the r-word will not end the prejudice towards peo­ple with special needs, but it is a start. Our words are a reflection of our ideologies, and by changing our language, we can begin to influence our ideologies. The ultimate goal of “Spread the Word to End the Word” is not to stop the use of the r-word, but to make known the fact that people with developmental disabili­ties are truly blessed, and that they can contribute to society in a tangi­ble way. So please, think about what you are saying next time you use the r-word, and remember who you are offending. 
Nicholas Pellegrini 
freshman 
Knott Hall 
March 2 
of knowledge. 

Why do research? A few practical rea­sons include discernment about majors and post-graduate opportunities and the honing of technical and communication skills. The real reasons, though, have to do with authentic learning and discov­ery. Through research, undergraduates not only discover knowledge and truths about the world, but also discover some­thing about themselves — who they are, what they believe, what they might be capable of. Research requires a bit of risk-taking, venturing into unfamiliar physical spaces and intellectual territo­ries. It can be a personal as well as an academic challenge, and we invite stu­dents to embark on that venture. 
Another reason to participate in research is that Notre Dame is a research institution, with a treasure trove of faculty, graduate students, labo­ratories, libraries, archives and access to additional resources all over the world. Notre Dame is a relatively small institu­tion compared to many research univer­sities, but that means there are even more opportunities for undergraduate research. Students here can more easily get to know faculty and graduate stu­dents well, especially when collaborating on research projects. At CUSE, we are here to help undergraduates take full advantage of what Notre Dame has to offer. 
Perhaps the best reason to conduct research is that it is a form of service. In his inaugural address, Fr. Jenkins quot­ed Pope John Paul II, who stated that our proper activity as members of a Catholic university is “Learning to think rigorously, so as to act rightly and to serve humanity better.” Notre Dame stu­dents are talented intellectually; to not use the gift of one’s mind would be to waste that gift. Put another way, partici­pating in research, scholarship and cre­ative endeavors serves the greater good. It is no accident that our new center is located in Geddes Hall, home to the Center for Social Concerns and the Institute for Church Life. At CUSE, we promote intellectual pursuits enthusias­tically because we know that undergrad­uates have much to contribute to our understanding of the world, to improv­ing the quality of life and to addressing some of the important, exigent chal­lenges that we face today. 
Dan Lindley is the Director of the Center for Undergraduate Scholarly Engagement and Cecilia Lucero is the Assistant Director for Undergraduate Research. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
In gratitude to Gail Walton 
I was among those who were deeply saddened to receive word of the death of Dr. Gail Walton on Wednesday. I only know a small fraction of the students who had worked with Gail during her many years as director of music at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, but in the wake of her passing, all have expressed remarkable sentiments of gratitude. She was a trusted mentor, who helped instill lifelong passions for choral music. Some tell me they are indebted to her for their entire professional careers in Church music, and still others affirm that Gail played a key role in their decisions to enter the Catholic Church, by her exam­ple of faith and by her devotion to beau­ty and reverence in sacred music. 
For my own part, I will be eternally grateful to Gail for providing me an opportunity to appreciate the grandeur and breadth of the Church’s living litur­gical tradition. When I first came to Notre Dame, I had never experienced time-honored hymnody, the use of the pipe organ, choral masterpieces or Gregorian chant at Mass before. She fos­tered a repertoire and culture of prayer that broadened my perspective and shaped my love for the Mass. I was also blessed to get to know Gail better in recent years. On a personal level, Gail helped my wife, a Liturgical Choir alum­na, and me to prepare our wedding music at the Basilica. And at a profes­sional level, I found Gail always open to service of the Church, both within and beyond the campus of Notre Dame. 
The last month has seen the University of Notre Dame suffer the loss of two great figures in her Catholic heritage. First, the death of Dr. Ralph McInerny, and now the passing of Dr. Walton. The former devoted his prolific academic career to the integrity of the Catholic intellectual and literary tradition. Gail’s influence came in subtle form, through her commitment to the evangelizing power of the Church’s artistic treasury. In liturgical studies, we are taught that the manner in which we pray lays the foundation for what we believe. Gail Walton may not have realized during her earthly life how catechetical her work was, but I suspect it has helped many to encounter the Divine in a profound way. 
May her legacy live on, and may she rest in peace amidst the communion of Saints and the choirs of Angels. 
Brian MacMichael 
class of 2004 MTS, class of 2006 March 2 



The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Tuesday, March 2, 2010 

I forgot my plaid shirt. And my can of beer. But I had my sway on and a friend by my side and that was all that was needed to enjoy the folksy musical trolling of the Avett Brothers Sunday night. 
Adriana Pratt
As the Murat 
Assistant Scene Editor
Egyptian Room lights dimmed in Indianapolis and the opening act, The Low Anthem, took the stage, filling the atmosphere with hip­pie folk rock, a sense of serenity fell over the crowd preparing us for the magical night that was ahead. The opening band, a group of four from Rhode Island, brought their own flair to the stage and invited us into their trance of musical harmony, opening our ears to new sounds with innovative instruments. Their ending song changed pace and quickly shook us from our reverie, waking us up just in time for the two brothers, Scott and Seth Avett, their bassist Bob Crawford and their cellist Joe Kwon to take the stage. 
Never have I seen a cellist like Joe Kwon. He was the most fascinating character to watch by far (even more so than the drunken college bros in front of me) and worked his bow with such precision that he seemed as prac-song like “Distraction #74” that makes ticed as a doctor using his scalpel in you want to link arms with a person surgery. His look was a total contradic-nearby and spin around (which we did tion — a classy suit with shaggy hair with those drunken bros in front of us). and a Genghis Kahn-like The set list weaved between fast and mustache/beard combo. He rocked that slow numbers, highlighting each mem­cello though, forcefully ber of the band at one and passionately, point or another. Scott adding vigor to the and Seth took turns 

singing the lead vocals, allowing for one favorite moment in partic­
ular when Scott 
(or “Hottie Scottie” as my friend likes to call him) per­
formed the cryp­
tic song “St. Josephs,” one I hadn’t heard 
before. The 
melancholy soft strumming of Scott and his 
brother’s guitar strings matched with 

simple yet surprisingly profound lyrics, the mysterious makes them a fascinating band to listen lyrics about a hospi­to. Just when you think you can push tal stay were entrancing and bitter-them into one category and set aside sweet. their CDs for chill time, you hear a “Murder in the City” was also poignant nd sweet, recalling memories of sibling rivalry, parental pride and a last will made of love for a family. The closing two lines, “Always remember, there’s nothing worth sharing / Like the love that let us share our name,” are as charming as a song can get, and struck a chord with the women lusting after the simple loving world of the Avett Brothers. 

There’s a reason these men were picked to open for Dave Matthews Band during a portion of their spring 2009 tour. They’ve got talent, sincerity and simple passion that reverberate with every pluck of their instrument strings. The only thing that left me blue was the fact that they didn’t play my per­sonal favorite Avett song, “I Would Be Sad.” Regardless, I left the concert feel­ing refreshingly light and worry-free … until I got back to campus and remem­bered it’s Midterms Week. Oh well, it was nice while it lasted. Thanks for the break from reality Avett Brothers — to put me in such a serene mood, there really are no others. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 

It’s the most wonderful time of the year! No, not Lent. Shamrock Shake season, of course! Those wonderful green milkshakes are back at McDonald’s in celebra-Maija Gustin tion of St. 

Patrick’s 
Assistant Scene Editor
Day. As a member of the Notre Dame Irish community, it’s your responsibility to enjoy and sup­port the Shamrock Shake at this magi­cal time of the year. 
The Shamrock Shake was first intro­duced to the public in 1970, and was available in nearly all McDonald’s until the early 1990s. Though widely consid­ered the predecessor to all seasonal beverages, the Shamrock Shake has, since its reign in the ‘70s, ‘80s and early ‘90s, become something of a domestic rarity. However, it seems that McDonald’s has recently come back to its senses. In the last few years, there has been a rise in the availability of Shamrock Shakes come late February through St. Patrick’s Day. 
A Shamrock Shake is a hard thing to describe. While technically considered mint milkshakes, to the trained con­noisseur, they are so much more. As a person who doesn’t typically enjoy mint-flavored ice cream, it would be a disservice for me to label these delicacies as mere mint milkshakes. The light flavor is something of a delight to the taste buds regardless of proclivity to mint. There is some secret ingredient buried within that green milkshake-y goodness that adds a complex flavor to some­thing that seems so sim­ple. And they’re green! 
McDonald’s has changed things up on us a little this year. It seems the mega-restaurant chain has decided to class up its prod­ucts by serving all milkshakes in a clear plastic cup, much like those used for frozen coffee beverages, with whipped cream and a cherry on top. While many will be horrified to see that their favorite wax-paper cups are no longer available, the beautiful light 

green color of the Shamrock Shake can now be shown off to all. This year, I had my first Shamrock Shake of the 
season on Feb. 19. The McDonald’s on Ironwood did right by me and had my favorite seasonal bev­

erage waiting for me at my first free moment on Friday afternoon. What a way to start out a weekend. 
It has come to my attention that many at Notre Dame are unfamiliar with the ways of the Shamrock Shake. 
To this, I say for shame! Many will find it difficult to share the love for it that I have, but you owe it to yourself, and really to humanity as a whole, to at least try it. You might not like it, in which case I feel sorry for you, but at least you can say that you have tried the mighty Shamrock Shake. You will instantly garner the respect and admi­ration of those around you. And for those of you who have experienced the magic, I say there isn’t a moment to lose! Head over to the nearest McDonald’s and start March off right! 
For further inspiration on the quest for the Shamrock Shake, just search “Shamrock Shake commercial” on YouTube, and prepare for your mouth to water and your eyes to pop at the kitschy ‘80s era commercials. The only thing left to say, really, is bon appétit! 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
Observer Graphic I BLAIR CHEMIDLIN 
The Observer 

Scene
Tuesday, March 2, 2010 page 11 


By TATIANA SPRAGINS 
Scene Writer 
Midterm week means sleep­less nights and stressful study­ing, but thankfully Spring Break is coming along to bring a smile to everyone’s distressed face. And with Spring Break, many of our Notre Dame students will be making their way either to some warm and exotic location, or just home to sleep and watch TV for many uninterrupted hours. Yes, we all know these midterm breaks always come in at exactly the right time, and the very much-anticipated Spring Break is only a few dreadfully long, exam-packed days away. 
As of mid-February, plans were made, and the “So, what are you doing for Spring Break?” question is the newest go-to conversation starter. Fewer students seem to stay on campus for Spring Break as compared to Fall Break, and travel plans have been in full swing for weeks now. Taking this into account, and thinking of other breaks and typical Notre Dame student traveling habits, I have assembled a list of trips that every Domer makes throughout their time as a stu­dent. In a sort of undergraduate bucket list, you cannot graduate with “student experience hon­ors” without completing most, if not all, items on this list. Appealing to the reality and the stereotypical, in no particular order, here goes: 
Notre Dame-Michigan football game in Ann Arbor 
Fall at Notre Dame means football, and going up to the Big House to watch the Irish play the Wolverines is definitely one of the defining experiences for Notre Dame undergraduates. Forget about those difficult books you had to read in class and that one time you under­stood what was being taught in your Orgo class. Wearing Muck Fichigan shirts and driving three hours to maybe have the chance to glorify your victory against one of ND’s favorite rivals in their own stadium — that is Notre Dame. 
Appalachia 
It seems everyone does Appalachia. Service is, without a doubt, a big part of Notre Dame life and these trips serve as proof to this. Students who go always love it, and the num­ber of applicants for these pro­grams is always large, and increasing. Included in this sec­tion are the SSLP and ISSLP, which also offer summer service programs that are extremely popular and successful. 
Chicago 

All Notre Dame students go to Chicago for a weekend. They take pictures at the Bean and make it their Facebook profile picture, and then they eat deep-dish pizza. 
Pro-life march in Washington, D.C. 
Much like Appalachia, anoth­er aspect of your typical Catholic Notre Dame student is going to D.C. in January to the pro-life march. Frequently, dur­ing that week of January, you’ll see students absent for class, and then back with a “Irish Fighting for Life” sweatshirt. To some, hopping on that bus to 
D.C. is a marking experience of life at Notre Dame, where Catholic principles can easily be applied in every aspect of daily life. 
Home for the weekend 
If you go to Notre Dame, you’re from Chicago — which basically means you live any­where in the Midwest. Therefore, you sometimes go home for the weekend. Actually, on your way there you’ll proba­bly be sitting next to someone who decided to go to the city for the weekend (view item No. 3 of the list). 
Michigan City outlets 
This is mostly for the girls, although it applies to both sexes. Since South Bend isn’t your typical idea of the perfect college town and the Mishawaka Mall can become a little tiring after a while, the outlets in Michigan City provide a quick escape from academia to the wonderful world of shop­ping. An experience Notre Dame students have to have, at least once. 
Spring Break in Daytona Beach, Fla. 
Finally, the most relevant item in the list for this week! Although some decide to be more “culturally diverse” and go to Puerto Rico or Cancun, this trip is not so much a Notre Dame must-do, but more of a college student requirement. Popular nation-wide, Spring Break in Daytona Beach is where all things tan and sunny happen. Many wild nights are experienced and yet memories of them are lost as you wake up hungover, in the clothes you wore last night, and completely unable to recall anything that happened after 9 p.m. Might sound like a regular weekend at Notre Dame, minus the sun, bikinis, beaches and tanning. 
Contact Tatiana Spragins at tspragin@nd.edu 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, March 2, 2010 
CLUB SPORTS 

Women’s water polo notches four victories 
Squad sweeps weekend slate; two more equestrians qualify for regionals; women’s hockey season ends 
Special to The Observer 
This weekend the Notre Dame Women’s Club Water Polo Team won all four of its games in a tournament at Grand Valley State. The team initially squared off against Miami (Ohio), winning 14-6. Erin Gibson (one), Maisie O’Malley (five), Eileen Flanagan (one), Meghan Pearl (three) and Ali Durkin (four) each con­tributed offensively. Goalie Betsy O’Neill had 14 saves. 
In their second match, the Irish defeated Ohio University 14-2 in a cohesive team effort. Nine dif­ferent players scored: Gibson (one), Durkin (four), Cristina Romano (four), Pearl (two), Adi Austgen (one), Victoria Anglin (one) and Rosemary Kelly (one). O’Neill had five saves while Kelly Gibson had three. 
In their third game of the day, the Irish faced their toughest opponent and long-time rival, Grand Valley State. Emily Harig and O’Malley put the Irish on the board with one goal each in the first quarter. In the second peri­od, freshman Victoria Anglin had a breakaway steal for the point to give the Irish a renewed ener­gy. The Irish returned with vigor and ultimately prevailed with a final score of 6-5 in the second half. Cristina Romano, O’Malley and Durkin scored the remaining three goals. O’Neill had 10 saves. 
In their fourth and final game of the tournament, the Irish faced Miami once again. The Irish were victorious with a final score of 14-5. Durkin scored five goals; Romano, O’Malley and Flanagan each scored two, Gibson, Danielle Guidry and Victoria each contributed one. The Irish are currently undefeat­ed in league play with an overall record of 8-1. The team will trav­el to California over spring break to compete against various West coast opponents. 
Women’s Ice Hockey 
Notre Dame finished its season this weekend with three games. Margo DeBot’s unassisted goal at the 9:41 mark of the second peri­od was the only Irish scoring in 
the  first  match  as  the  club  
dropped  a  3-1  decision  to  
Hoffman Estates.  

The squad fell 4-3 to X-factor as it was unable to hold onto its 3-2 lead going into the third peri­od. Four Irish skaters served penalties during the two-goal outburst. Emily Chappell ripped the nets twice for the Irish, 
OLYMPICS 
Medvedev blasts sports ministers 
several of them, who answer takes the torch for the next 
Associated Press 
for these preparations, should Winter games in its Black Sea 
MOSCOW — President take the courageous decision resort of Sochi in 2014. Dmitry Medvedev demanded to hand in their notice. If we “Without messing around, Monday that Russian sports don’t see such decisiveness, we need to start preparations officials step down over the we will help them.” for Sochi. But taking into country’s dismal performance In post-Soviet history, Russia account what happened in at the Winter Olympics in had never previously finished Vancouver, we need to com-Vancouver. outside the top five in the pletely change how we pre-
Russia, a traditional winter medal standings and only won pare our athletes,” Medvedev sports powerhouse, won just fewer medals once before, in said. 15 medals—with only three 2002 at Salt Lake City. Russia In an interview with the golds—in one of its worst per-was the top nation at the 1994 newspaper Vremya Novostei, formances. Officials said Lillehammer Games, garner-sports minister Vitaly Mutko before the games ing 23 blamed several factors for the that 30 medals m e d a l s — 1 1 Vancouver flop. New sports and a top-three gold. such as freestyle skiing that 
“We need to 
finish in the In nine “no one takes seriously” in medal standings completely change W i n t e r Russia have allowed other was the target. O l y m p i c s countries to race ahead, he 
how we prepare our
Russia placed between 1956 said. 
athletes.” 
11th for golds and 1988, the Mutko also claimed luck was and sixth in the Soviet Union not on the country’s side, say-
overall medal Dmitry Medvedev failed to top ing in several disciplines count. the medal Russia lacked “a shot here, a
Russian president
In televised standings only second or a point there,” sin-c o m m e n t s , twice, finishing gling out Evgeni Plushenko, Medvedev said if runner-up on who took silver behind Evan those responsible for prepar-those occasions. Lysacek of the United States in ing the athletes don’t resign Medvedev lamented that a closely fought men’s figure then the decision will be made Russia “has lost the old Soviet skating competition. for them. He did not mention school … and we haven’t cre-Doping bans had also anyone by name. ated our own school—despite deprived Russia of several 
“Those who bear the the fact that the amount of leading medal contenders, he responsibility for Olympic money that is invested in said. preparations should carry sport is unprecedentedly Several Russian politicians that responsibility. It’s totally high.” have called for Mutko, who clear,” he said. “I think that The results leave Russia was appointed sports minister the individuals responsible, or particularly red-faced as it in May 2008, to step down. 
assisted on the second goal by Caitlin Ryan. Ryan scored the second Irish other goal unassist­ed. 
In the other game, the Irish broke from a 1-1 tie to throttle the Chicago Inferno, 6-1. DeBot, Karen Reidl, Chappell, Megan Aimola, Brinya Bjork and Ryan all registered goals in a dominat­ing performance. 
Equestrian 
Whitney Preisser and Celina Tolson became the seventh and eighth Notre Dame/Saint Mary’s riders to qualify for Regionals this weekend in IHSA competi­tion. The Irish finished fifth in a 10-team event where Illinois and Purdue took first and second, with Indiana and Saint Mary’s of the Woods tying for third. Katie Pietrucha claimed the sole first place for the club in intermediate fences. 

Men’s Volleyball 
Notre Dame opened with a pair of wins before dropping its final three matches this weekend to finish ninth in a 32-team field. The Irish defeated Baldwin Wallace 26-24, 25-23 with Mark Iandolo as the top performer. The squad then topped Florida 25-17, 25-17 with Steve Walsh garnering game honors. 
Grand Valley and Illinois B were victorious in the next two matches, 25-17, 23-25, 16-14, and 17-25, 25-19, 15-9. Rob Bauer was singled out for out­standing player in both contests. Iandolo was again recognized as best player in the closing compe­tition, a 25-16, 25-16 loss to Lakeland College. 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Syracuse moves up to top spot in rankings 
Orange at No. 1. There was the 
Associated Press 
preseason poll in 1987-88 and a 

Syracuse took quite a route to six-week stint in 1989-90. its first No. 1 ranking in 20 “It’s been a long time and years. we’re happy to be there,” said 
The Orange weren’t in the Boeheim, who has 826 wins in preseason Top 25 and, just days his 34th season at his alma after it was released with them mater. in “Others Receiving Votes,” Syracuse (27-2), which they were beaten by Division II received 59 first-place votes LeMoyne in an exhibition game. from the national media panel, 
But they were back in the moved to the top off its 95-77 poll—at No. 10, in fact—just two victory over then-No. 7 weeks into the season after Villanova in front of an on-cam­impressive wins over California pus record crowd at the Carrier and North Carolina in the 2K Dome. Sports Classic. As always, it’s Syracuse’s 2-3 
The Orange haven’t been out zone defense, which it didn’t use of the top 10 since and on in the loss to LeMoyne, that is Monday moved from fourth into drawing all the attention in the the No. 1 spot, taking advantage rise up the polls. of a weekend that saw the top “The biggest thing is that three teams lose. we’ve been the biggest we’ve 
“It’s a great honor, a great tes-been inside in a long time and tament for these players, these we just cover better. These guys kids, to be number one,” have worked a little harder at Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim it,” Boeheim said. “We’re also said. “We all know it doesn’t still leading the nation in field matter that much in the big pic-goal percentage (52.2) so we’ve ture, it’s where you are at the also been a very good offensive end of the year. These kids have team. They really move the ball worked hard, been unselfish. and pass the ball extremely They deserve it. They really do.” well. We’ve been good on both 
This is the third time the Hall ends of the court. It’s not one of Fame coach has had the thing really.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
CLASSIFIEDS 

all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
WANTED 
SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: Make a difference in the life of a child! Summer therapy camp for children with physical disabilities. Located on shore of Lake Superior in Big Bay, MI. Positions available for Counselors, Waterfront, Instructors for Nature/Arts &amp; Crafts/Recreation, Nurses, Therapists, Food Service, and Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, responsible, and love children. June 13 through August 8. Salary, room &amp; board, and experience of lifetime provided. Download appli­cation: www.baycliff.org For more information call or email: (906) 345­9314/email baycliff@baycliff.org ——————————————— 
FOR RENT 
Faculty/grad students. 2 bdrm, 2.5 bath, LR, DR, FR, Florida room, utility room. 2-car attached garage. Security 
system. Available now. 262-332-0015. Shown by appt. 1616 E. Colfax. 
——————————————— gradrentals.viewwork.com ——————————————— For rent: Furnished 4 bedroom 
house 5 blocks from campus. Off street parking, security system, central air. 
Nice. Only $350.00 a month each. Call 574-289-4071. 
NOTICES 
2 AKC registered English Bull dogs for free. 
If interested please contact: 
d.harrison120@gmail.com ———————————————­
TICKETS 

Need Strega Nona tix. 
PLEASE CALL! 
PERSONAL 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. 
For more information, visit Notre Dame's website: 
http.csap.nd.edu ———————————————­UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Do not go it alone. 

Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. 
If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
For more information, visit ND's web site: 
http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu ———————————————­Rule number two, never say you're bored in my class. You're not bored with school, me, or my class. You're bored with your pathetic little lives! ——————————————— “We've made living biological attractions so astounding that they'll capture the imagination of the entire planet.” ——————————————— “Until this battle station is fully oper­ational, we are vulnerable.” ——————————————— Steve, Jeff, Tom, Rob and Bobby, you guys are the bomb-diggity. I’m out. ——————————————— “You see, it would be this mat that you would put on the floor... and would have different CONCLU­SIONS written on it that you could JUMP TO.” ———————————————­
Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Tuesday, March 2, 2010 
page 13 
NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball AP Poll 
team previous 
1 Syracuse 4 2 Kansas 1 3 Kentucky 2 4 Duke 5 5 Kansas State 6 6 Ohio State 9 7 Purdue 3 8 New Mexico 10 9 Villanova 7 10 West Virginia 8 11 Michigan State 14 12 Butler 15 13 Vanderbilt 16 14 BYU 13 15 Wisconsin 17 16 Tennessee 19 17 Pittsburgh 12 18 Gonzaga 18 19 Georgetown 11 20 Temple 20 21 Baylor 24 22 Maryland NR 23 Texas A&M 22 24 UTEP NR 25 Xavier NR 
NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Coaches Poll 
team  previous  
1  Syracuse  4  
2  Kansas  1  
3  Kentucky  2  
4  Duke  5  
5  Kansas State  6  
6  Purdue  3  
7  Ohio State  9  
8  West Virginia  7  
9  Villanova  8  
10  New Mexico  12  
11  Butler  10  
12  Michigan State  14  
13  Tennessee  17  
14  Gonzaga  15  
15  BYU  11  
16  Temple  18  
17  Wisconsin  19  
18  Pittsburgh  16  
19  Vanderbilt  20  
20  Georgetown  13  
21  UTEP  25  
22  Baylor  NR  
23  Maryland  NR  
24  Texas A&M  23  
25  Texas  21  



around the dial 
NCAA Men’s Basketball 
Villanova at Cincinnati 7 p.m., ESPN2 
NHL Hockey 
Flyers at Lightning 
7:30 p.m., Versus 
MLB 


Rodriguez contacted by feds about doctor 
Associated Press 
TAMPA, Fla. — Yankees star Alex Rodriguez has been contacted by federal investigators regarding a Canadian doctor accused of selling an unapproved drug. 
Rodriguez said Monday he was “aware” of the investigation and plans on cooperating with govern­ment officials who are look­ing into Dr. Anthony Galea. Rodriguez said a date for an interview has not been set. 
“I can’t really get into that,” Rodriguez said. “I have to speak to those guys first. I’ve just got to wait for instructions.” 
Galea is facing four charges in his country relat­ed to the drug known as Actovegin, which is extract­ed from calf’s blood and used for healing. His assis­tant also has been charged in the U.S. for having HGH and another drug while crossing the border in September. 

A-Rod said the probe won’t have an effect on him because “this is about someone else.” He declined comment when asked if he has even been treated by Galea. 
“I’m focused on baseball,” Rodriguez said. 
New York general Brian Cashman was informed of the situation Monday, and added that he has not been told about any other Yankees’ players being involved. 
“Not aware of any,” Cashman said. 
The Yankees released a statement saying they had not been contacted about the matter. 
“The Yankees never authorized Dr. Tony Galea to treat Alex Rodriguez, nor do we have any knowledge of any such treatment,” the statement said. “We will continue to monitor the sit­uation.” 
Cashman said the Yankees have not had any dealings with Galea. He declined comment on Rodriguez’s situation, say­ing “I don’t have much to comment off of.” 
It had been uneventful start of the new season — except for a minor car acci­dent that caused no damage or injuries — for Rodriguez. 
Last year, he started spring training by address­ing his use of performance-enhancing drugs and underwent right hip sur­gery in March that sidelined him until May 8. The third baseman then put together a 30-homer, 100-RBI season that ended with the Yankees winning their first World Series title since 2000. 
Galea is known for using a blood-spinning technique 
— platelet-rich plasma therapy — designed to speed recovery from injuries. Among the athletes he has treated are golf superstar Tiger Woods and Mets shortstop Jose Reyes. 
IN BRIEF 
Cabrera says he is done drinking after 2009 incident 
LAKELAND, Fla. — Detroit Tigers slugger Miguel Cabrera wants to clear a few things up after the ugly incident last fall, right before his team surrendered the American League Central Division title to the Twins. 
First, he’s done drinking alcohol. And he’s not an alcoholic. 
“You guys write in the paper ‘alco­holic,’ that’s not right,” the Detroit first baseman said Monday before the Tigers’ morning workout at spring training. “I don’t know how to explain, but it’s not an alcohol prob­lem.” 
Five months ago, Cabrera went 0 for 4 and stranded six runners in a 5-1 loss to Chicago. That game started about 12 hours after Tigers general manager Dave Dombrowski picked him up at a police station following a fight with his wife — apparently after a late night out. 

Judge dismisses charges of assault against Reed 
PITTSBURGH — A judge on Monday dis­missed charges of simple assault and resisting arrest against Steelers kicker Jeff Reed, who was accused of raising his fists at a Pittsburgh police officer when ordered back in his vehicle as police dealt with a teammate. 
The two misdemeanor charges dis­missed by state District Judge Richard King at Reed’s preliminary hearing were the most serious he faced. King postponed for six weeks a decision on whether to hold Reed for trial on charges of disorder­ly conduct and public drunkenness. 
King directed Reed to perform 40 hours of community service and said he would consider dropping the two summary charges if Reed complies. 
The judge said that “something was there” between Reed and police on Oct. 18, 2009, several hours after the Steelers beat Cleveland 27-14, but that it didn’t rise to the level of simple assault or resist­ing arrest. 
Blackhawks send two players to Blues for goalie 
ST. LOUIS — The St. Louis Blues have acquired goaltender Joe Fallon from the Chicago Blackhawks in exchange for goalie Hannu Toivonen and defenseman Danny Richmond. The 25-year-old Fallon has played in 29 games this season with the American Hockey League’s Rockford IceHogs. The Blues said Monday that Fallon will report to their AHL affiliate in Peoria, Ill. Fallon was originally picked by the Blackhawks in the sixth round of the 2005 entry draft. The Blues also recalled forward Derek Armstrong from Peoria. The 36-year­old forward has played in 30 games for Peoria this season, scoring 22 goals. Toivonen, 25, was 11-11-3 record with a 2.73 goals-against average and a .906 save percentage in 26 games with Peoria this year. Richmond, 25, has 15 assists, 16 points and 135 penalty min­utes in 54 games in Peoria. 
page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, March 2, 2010 
NHL 
NHL returns to play after classic Olympics 
Associated Press 
VANCOUVER, British Columbia — A thrilling Olympic tournament capped with a gold­en goal. 
Hockey was enjoying a sud­den burst of popularity Monday, a day after Sidney Crosby lifted Canada to a 3-2 overtime victo­ry over the United States to win the gold medal at the Vancouver Games. 
The ending could not have been better for the NHL, with the U.S. and Canada in the final and Crosby’s Stanley Cup cham­pion Penguins playing U.S. goalie Ryan Miller’s Buffalo Sabres on Tuesday, when most teams are back in action. 
Yet the irony is that Crosby’s wrister sliding under Miller might be the last Olympic mem­ory the NHL can share. 
The league has not yet agreed to stop the season again in four years to enable its players to participate in the 2014 Sochi Olympics. Two-time defending MVP Alex Ovechkin has already vowed that he will play in the games in his host country regardless of what the NHL decides. 
Debate continues to rage as to what effects—both positive and negative— taking a two-week break in the heart of the season has on the NHL. It all seems good when the Olympics are held in North America and its conducive time zones for televi­sion coverage of the games, and when the gold medal game fea­tures a dream matchup. 
But for every finish like this one, there is also the possibility that Sweden and Finland could fight for gold on the last day, as was the case at the 2006 Turin Olympics. And next time out, the games will be in a time zone that makes for weak television ratings in North America. 
NBC said Monday that Sunday’s gold medal game was the most-watched hockey game in 30 years, drawing an average viewership of 27.6 million. Not since the finals of the Americans’ 1980 Miracle On Ice run, when the U.S. secured gold against Finland, had so many viewed a hockey game on American television (32.8 mil­lion). 
Canada’s latest golden victory was seen by 10.5 million more viewers than in 2002 when the Canadians topped the U.S. for gold at Salt Lake City—a 61 per­cent increase. 
Still, even as NHL commis­sioner Gary Bettman praised the Olympic tournament, there was no discussion of the future. 
“The 2010 Olympic Winter Games in Vancouver served as the latest affirmation that the quality of our play—and our players—is the finest in the world. We send our Olympians back to their NHL teams with our congratulations, apprecia­tion and thanks for having rep­resented their NHL teams, their league and their fans with such distinction,” Bettman said in a statement. 
“As every member of the gold and silver medal teams plays for an NHL club, the speed and skill of our outstanding athletes and our game remains on dis­play as the excitement of our season resumes.” 
The NHL had one game scheduled Monday in its return from the 14-day Olympic break—Detroit at Colorado— with a 12-game slate on Tuesday. Matching the excite­ment of the Olympic tourna­ment may be an impossible task, but the league is still headed to a key moment in the season. Teams have anywhere from 19 to 22 games left in the regular season to secure playoff spots, followed by the run to the Stanley Cup. 
Miller will get a chance for a bit of redemption and revenge against Crosby. The kicker is that Miller will also be facing 
U.S. teammate Brooks Orpik, who now goes back to being on the same side as Sid the Kid as a Penguins defenseman. 
“I’ve seen him score many goals for us in Pittsburgh,” Orpik said. “It’s disappointing, but if we were going to lose, I’m glad he’s the guy that won.” 
Settling for silver stung Orpik, but in the world of Olympic hockey, teammates and oppo­nents switch sides in the matter of 24 hours. The same thing happened in reverse two weeks earlier when NHL teams dis­persed and players joined coun­trymen on the world stage. 
Jonathan Toews and Patrick Kane have been joined at the hip since they came to Chicago and sparked the Blackhawks’ return to relevance. The Olympics broke up this dynamic duo, pitting Toews and Canada 
against  Kane  and  the  
Americans.  
Toews  scored the  first  of  

Canada’s three gold that ended up costing Kane his dream of gold. 
“I’ll definitely be very respect­ful of what he did and what his team did at this tournament,” Toews said. “I don’t see it as a joking matter between the two of us. It was such a hard-fought game that I can imagine the dis­appointment on their side of it. 
“We were this close to coming up on the losing end, too, and it would not have been a good feeling. You’ve got to give it to him for the way he played. I will leave it at that.” 
The player movement won’t just involve shifting from national teams to NHL clubs. Wednesday is the league’s trade deadline, and it is traditionally a busy day for dealing. Big names such as Ilya Kovalchuk, Dion Phaneuf, Jean-Sebastien Giguere and Olli Jokinen were traded in the days leading up to the break, but many more could be changing places in the next day or so. 
Red Wings coach Mike Babcock basked in the glow of guiding Canada to gold, but like Miller he couldn’t let the cele­bration last. The defending Western Conference champions returned from the Olympic break just outside a postseason spot. Work needs to be done to extend Hockeytown’s run of consecutive playoff appearances to 19 seasons. 
Detroit will depend on defenseman Brian Rafalski, a three-time Stanley Cup champi­on and two-time Olympic silver medalist who tied Zach Parise for the U.S. lead with four goals and eight points in the Olympics. He will get over falling short of the gold, he just doesn’t know when. 
“I’ll tell you as time goes on,” he said. 
NBA 

Shaq sidelined 6-8 weeks 
Associated Press 

INDEPENDENCE, Ohio — Cleveland Cavaliers center Shaquille O’Neal had surgery on his injured right thumb Monday and seems likely to miss the rest of the regular season. 
If he gets back for the play­offs, though, O’Neal is promis­ing to make up for his time out. 
O’Neal will miss about eight weeks, the team said. He was examined Sunday by specialist Dr. Thomas Graham at the National Hand Center in Baltimore, who performed the surgery Monday morning. 
“He feels like he let us down, but we understand injuries hap­pen in the game,” said team­mate Jamario Moon, who got a text from the star center along with the other Cavs. “I think he’s really down about being out. … He let us know it’s time to continue playing basketball and he’s going to be all right.” 
The recovery timeline means O’Neal, who turns 38 on Saturday, may not be ready for the start of the playoffs April 17. The Cavaliers acquired him last summer with an eye toward the postseason, after Dwight Howard and Orlando eliminated them in the Eastern Conference finals. 
Cleveland enters its game Monday against the Knicks leading Orlando by six games for the best record in the East. Should the Cavaliers and Magic retain the top two seeds, they wouldn’t meet until the Eastern Conference finals, which begin in mid-May. 
“Will be out for a min but when I return it is on,” O’Neal posted on his Twitter account Monday morning. “Win da ring for da king! Luv my team, Cavs baby!” 

O’Neal has played well for the Cavaliers, averaging 12 points and 6.7 rebounds in 53 games. He injured the thumb Thursday at Boston when his shot was blocked by Glen “Big Baby” Davis with just over 7 minutes left in the first half. 
Cavs general manager Danny Ferry said O’Neal will wear a splint for the next two weeks, then begin his rehab. 
“Our guys have done a very good job of stepping up this sea­son. We are confident they will do the same in this situation,” Ferry said. “We are fortunate to have some depth in our front court that can keep us moving forward while Shaq recovers and returns to play for the post­season.” 
Anderson Varejao will contin­ue to start at center for Cleveland, which has the NBA’s best record at 44-16. J.J. Hickson and Leon Powe, who recently returned from knee surgery, are also options. 
Former backup Zydrunas Ilgauskas, traded to Washington for Antawn Jamison, is now a free agent following a buyout by the Wizards. Ilgauskas is free to sign with any team, but will have to wait another couple of weeks under NBA rules should he elect to re-sign with the Cavaliers. 
Cleveland has battled injuries and personnel losses all season. 
Point guard Mo Williams recently returned after missing 11 games with an injured shoul­der and guard Delonte West bounced in and out of the rota­tion early because of personal reasons. Powe debuted last week after recovering from knee surgery last summer. 


Tuesday, March 2, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
NFL DRAFT 
Declaring early not easy 
and could slide into the bot-
Associated Press 
tom of the first round—cost-
INDIANAPOLIS — Taylor ing him millions. Mays has no regrets about But Mays isn’t second ­finishing his senior season at guessing the decision. Southern Cal. “I was close (to leaving) 
Eric Berry saw no sense in and then at the end, I just risking everything one more got my eyes put onto the time at Tennessee. prize of trying to be the best, 
The top two safeties in this one more time,” he said at year’s NFL draft exemplify this weekend’s annual scout-the high -stakes choice ing combine in Indianapolis. dozens of college underclass-“Trying to learn the game a men debate each winter: little bit more. It wasn’t Should they stay in school or about coming out for the should they jump to the NFL? money or for the fame. It 
“He told me I’d be a fool to was more about coming out come back,” to really just Berry said with be a finished a laugh explain-product, and ing the advice “I had to put my take all the his defensive family pretty much chances I coordinator, had to be the 
before my school.” 
Monte Kiffin, best safety I provided. could be.” 
Kiffin’s NFL Eric Berry Berry and pedigree helped Mays are the 
NFL prospect
Berry make an informati ve choice, one that could bring in millions of dollars by August. The junior is projected to be a top-five pick in April and could become the first safety to go No. 1 overall since 1956. 
Mays made the other choice, going back to school to win a national champi­onship, become a more com­plete player and improve his draft position. Things didn’t work out that way. 
The Trojans went 9-4, Mays was criticized for not living up to the hype and now Berry has surpassed him as the top-rated safety. While Mays could have gone in the top half of the first round last year, as the No. 1 safety, he’s now ranked No. 2 lucky ones. 
Both are still 
likely to go in the first-round draft picks despite any perceived flaws. 
Others aren’t so fortunate. 
NFL defensive end Adewale Ogunleye likely would have been a first-or second-round choice after his junior season at Indiana. But he went back to school, injured his knee and wound making the Miami Dolphins in 2000 as an undrafted free agent. 
It happens, and making the right choice can be as risky as a poker. There are no assurances, no set stan ­dards, and little historical evidence to help with the choice. 
This year 53 underclass­men have declared for the draft. Some of the names are familiar—Heisman Trophy winner Sam Bradford, Notre Dame quarterback Jimmy Clausen, Oklahoma defensive tackle Gerald McCoy, Oklahoma State receiver Dez Bryant and Berry. Others, such as Nevada defensive end Kevin Basped and Marshall running back Darius Marshall, are still try­ing to prove themselves. 
Why stay in school? 
“I came back to become a better football player, and I feel like I did that, came back to help some of the young guys on my team learn like older guys before helped me,” Mays said. “That was important to me. I feel like regardless of what our record is, or how I played the season, that’s what I accom­plished. 
The reasons for leaving can be very personal. 
Clausen, for instance, thought he did as much as he could in 2010. Bradford did-n’t want to risk another shoulder injury that would make scouts question his durability. 
McCoy thought it was time to help out his family, and Berry, well, he wanted to give his dad a break. 
“I had to put my family pretty much before my school,” Berry said. “Ever since I can remember, my mom and dad were always working. My dad worked two jobs. My dad just recently had heart surgery and I real­ly just wanted him to be able to sit down and just enjoy life for a little bit. I felt I could do that by entering the draft and making that situation better.” 
NBA 

Cavaliers use 74-point half to blow by Knicks 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND — LeBron James had 22 points, seven rebounds and seven assists, and the Cleveland Cavaliers used a 74­point first half to hammer the New York Knicks 124-93 on Monday night in their first game since learning Shaquille O’Neal will miss the rest of the regular season. 
The Cavaliers didn’t miss the 15-time All-Star, who had sur­gery on his injured right thumb Monday morning and is expect­ed to miss two months. The team is hopeful he will return for at least part of the playoffs. 
The 31-point margin of victory is the largest this season for Cleveland, which equaled a sea­son high with its 74-point first half — set three weeks ago against the Knicks. The Cavaliers outrebounded New York 60-31 and led by as much as 49. They have won eight straight in the series. 
J.J. Hickson started at center in place of O’Neal in a game that looked more like a pickup con­test in the park. 
James, who entered averaging 
35.4 points, 7.9 assists and 7.1 rebounds in his last seven games against New York, sat the entire fourth quarter. He didn’t have one of his trademark New York performances, but he did-n’t need it. 
Antawn Jamison had 17 points and 12 rebounds, while Anderson Varejao had 14 points and 10 boards. Hickson had 17 points and nine rebounds, and Delonte West scored 15 points as the Knicks flopped in their final chance to impress James before he can become a free agent this summer. 
Reserve Bill Walker scored 21 points for New York, Al Harrington had 18 and Danilo Gallinari 17. David Lee added 10 points and 10 rebounds. 
The Cavaliers raced through New York’s porous defense, turning the game into a dunk contest. 
West threw up an alley-oop pass to James in the second quarter while getting fouled. James caught the pass with his back to the basket, lowered the ball between his knees and slammed it down behind his back. The basket didn’t count because of the foul, but that mattered little to James, who giggled in amazement while watching the replay on the scoreboard. 
The foul on West gave Cleveland two free throws and possession. He inbounded to Varejao, got the ball back imme­diately and dunked over the 6­foot-8 Tracy McGrady to put Cleveland ahead 61-41 with 
4:26 to play in the half. West, who is five inches shorter, flexed and growled upon landing, drawing a smirk from McGrady. 
During one loose ball in the second half, James and West were so eager to get down the floor and start a fast break, both failed to grab the ball while rac­ing past it. 
Cleveland scored 18 of its 38 points in the first quarter on dunks and layups. The Cavaliers scored 66 points in the paint against a New York defense that allows an average of 46.1 per game. 
Mavericks 89, Bobcats 84 
Dirk Nowitzki scored 27 points, Jason Terry had several key buckets down the stretch, and the surging Dallas Mavericks beat Charlotte on Monday night to spoil the Bobcats’ first game since Michael Jordan agreed to buy the team. 
Jordan’s presence courtside and a difficult travel schedule couldn’t stop the NBA’s hottest team from their eighth straight win. Caron Butler added 22 points and Terry scored 13 of his 20 points in the fourth quar­ter for Dallas, which rallied from a 12-point third-quarter deficit. 
Stephen Jackson scored 20 points, but also had six of Charlotte’s 20 turnovers. Tyrus Thomas added 16 points and 12 rebounds for the Bobcats, who dropped to 0-12 against the Mavericks, the only team they’ve never beaten. 
It was a sour end to an event­ful day for Jordan, who late Friday reached a deal to buy the club from owner Bob Johnson. 
The former NBA superstar, who has rarely attended prac­tices or games in the past, showed up at the morning shootaround and played two games of H-O-R-S-E with rookie Gerald Henderson — losing both. 
Jordan, wearing a red jacket, sat in his courtside seat next to the Bobcats’ bench, and seemed to be already be doing some of the handshaking necessary when he’s expected to be approved as majority owner by the end of the month. 
While Jordan declined to speak to reporters, he chatted up the head of Charlotte’s cham­ber of commerce and the city’s former mayor during a second-quarter timeout He joked with some season-ticket holders on the floor at halftime, frequently checked his phone and shouted at the officials over calls. 
He watched his Bobcats build an early 20-9 lead over the slug­gish Mavericks, who were given no favors by the NBA schedule. 
Their home game Sunday night against New Orleans start­ed late because of television purposes, and they didn’t arrive in Charlotte until after 4 a.m. Monday. 
“Thx to NBA sched maker for giving us about 3 hours sleep before tomorrow’s game,” Dallas owner Mark Cuban post­ed on Twitter on Sunday night. 
But after falling behind 55-43 in the first minute of the third quarter, Nowitzki got hot. Hours after being named Western Conference player of the week, Nowitzki scored 10 points in the third quarter on a variety of fadeaway and turnaround jumpers, getting Dallas within 68-66. 
Terry then took over in the fourth. 
He hit a mid-range jumper, bank shot and 3-pointer in a 13­1 run to put Dallas ahead 83-75 with 4:43 left. 
Charlotte got within 85-81 on Jackson’s 3-pointer, but Terry scored on a runner with 1:15 left, and Nowitzki hit two free throws with 8.8 seconds left to put it away. 
The Bobcats, who played their fourth straight game without Nazr Mohammed (back) and their sixth straight without Tyson Chandler (foot, ankle), lost for the fourth time in five games. 


page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, March 2, 2010 
MLB 
Youkilis comfortable at either corner base 
Associated Press 
FORT MYERS, Fla. — When the Red Sox were trying to sign free-agent first baseman Mark Teixeira before last season, it seemed Kevin Youkilis would be moved from first to third. 
Teixeira wound up with the New York Yankees, and Youkilis kept his spot. But when Boston attempted to trade third baseman Mike Lowell to Texas this winter, Youkilis was mentioned as a potential replacement again. 
Not exactly the sort of sta­bility most two-time All-Stars would expect. But while many big leaguers prefer to hold down one position, the uncer­tainty doesn’t bother Youkilis. He’s comfortable at both cor­ners of the diamond, a luxury that gives general manager Theo Epstein added flexi ­bility. 
third this year or I want to play first this year.’ And Theo knows, and that’s what Theo tells me, too,” Youkilis said. 
“It’s a good line of commu­nication that wasn’t there before and now it is there. And it’s a good thing that we have a good understanding, (manager Terry Francona), Theo and I, which makes it a lot more fun to play here.” 
Youkilis’ versatility makes him a valuable component. 
“He is a kid that is an orga­nizational player that works his way through the system, makes the big league club, is a good player, works hard, and makes himself into a great player,” Francona said. “Good baserunner. Gold Glove-caliber defense with some home runs, drives in 100, a guy you want to hit right in the middle of your 
order. He’s turned himself into that type of a 
“I just tell player. I don ’t 
“Whatever you can
Theo I need a know if scouts 
do to help your team
raise every saw that when he year. I just win, that’s the key.” was drafted. He’s tell him I developed into a should get a mainstay on our 
Kevin Youkilis 
bonus in club.” 
Red Sox frst baseman 
there for how many times I move over,” Youkilis said, tongue in cheek. “But it’s not a big deal. It’s fun, and it’s all about winning. Whatever you can do to help your team win, that’s the key. You can’t real­ly worry about all that other stuff.” 
Although he won a Gold Glove at first base in 2007, Youkilis is adept across the infield as well. Last year, he had a .998 fielding percent­age in 78 games at first base and a .974 mark in 61 games at third. 
In his six -season career, he’s played second base, left field, center and right in addition to first and third. 
“A lot of times you have to move because there is an injury,” Youkilis said. “It’s not like they’re just Although 
Youkilis takes 
pride in his 
defense, fielding is just a means to an end. 
“I always joke around, but I’m kind of serious in the fact that we play the field so we can hit,” he said. “That’s one of the things I always joke about, but it’s a little bit true. But you also have pride in a sense. You don’t want to make errors and stuff like that. You have to work hard at playing a position.” 
Last season, Youkilis hit .305 with 27 home runs and 94 RBIs. His average fell below his career-best .312 in 2008, but above his career mark of .292. He hit .259 bat­ting third in the lineup and .338 batting fourth. As a third baseman, he hit .286. 
While playing 
first, .325. 
Like his posi­
trying to get tion on the 
“I love third, I love 
guys in the field, Youkilis’ 
lineup and flop frst — put me out spot in the bat-guys around.” there. ting order mat-
Youkilis, an ters little to eighth -round him. 
Kevin Youkilis 
draft pick by “I think you Boston in 2001, Rex Sox frst baseman just stick to 
turns 31 on March 15. He app roached Epstein this offseason to talk about moves —not only Youkilis’ moves on the field but other moves affecting the team. 
“He wants me to be com­fortable,” Youkilis said. “I love to be comfortable wher­ever. I love third, I love first 
— put me out there. Somebody always says, `What would you choose?’ I say it’d be the hardest choice. But I would choose whatever would make the team better.” 
And that’s exactly what Youkilis told Epstein this win­ter. 
“If there’s a player that’s coming in, either way I’d tell Theo, ‘Make a move on what you think our team can be better. Don’t make a move just because I want to play your 
strengths,” he 
said. “You can’t change who you are just because of where you’re hit­ting in the lineup. You have to go out there and stick to your strengths and learn from your weaknesses. You don’t really go up there like, I’m hitting fourth today, I better hit a home run or I’ve got to hit a grand slam. You’ve got to go up there and get a hit in a situation or move a runner over.” 
He’s also heard talk that the 2010 Red Sox will be light on offense while emphasizing pitching and defense more. 
“It doesn ’t matter how many runs you score,” he said. “It’s about holding the opposition down. And at the end of the game if you win 1­0, it’s the same as winning 13-10.” 
MLB 

Use of maple bats curtailed 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK — Many maple bats will be banned in the minor leagues this season, part of Major League Baseball’s push to stop shattered shards of wood from flying dangerously through the air. 
New regulations will prohibit bats made from ultra-light maple. The low-density wood often is found in bats with big barrels and thin handles, creat­ing a whip-like action when swung. 
Softer red maple and silver maple—not commonly used— will be completely eliminated by the 30-plus companies approved to make bats. 
The bans apply to players who are not on 40-man rosters and have no major league experi­ence. Baseball often tests new rules on minor leaguers, be it drug tests or pace-of-game ideas, because most of them are not in the MLB players’ union and such moves do not require union approval. 
MLB and the union have been extensively studying the issue of broken maple bats since 2008, as splintered barrels wildly heli­coptered all over the field and into the stands. 
“I think all bats are danger­ous,” said Los Angeles Dodgers first baseman John Lindsey, who has spent 15 years in the minors without a major league call-up. “It’s not like maple was the first bat to break. At times, they just look crazy, but when bats break they fly all the time, no matter what kind of wood.” 
As part of the safety initiative, any big leaguer whose bat broke at least 10 times last year must consult with a panel of MLB and union bat experts to determine if there is some extenuating prob­lem. 
Baseball also is changing the specifications for all bats, slim­ming the maximum diameter of the barrel from 2.75 inches— which had been the standard for more than 100 years—to 2.61 inches. Trying to change the geometry of bats, the minimum size of bat handles is being increasing by about 1-50th of an inch. 
Those changes aren’t expected to have any impact on the bats that players currently use. 
“We’re not taking the bat out of anyone’s hands,” union lawyer Bob Lenaghan said Monday night. 
Commissioner Bud Selig said in May 2008 that shattered maple bats were “a source of concern for me.” A safety panel of MLB and union officials began studying the issue with the USDA Forest Service’s Forest Products Laboratory and other experts. 
More than 2,200 bats broken in the majors during the final 2 1/2 months of the 2008 season were studied and catalogued, as was every cracked bat in the big leagues last year, said Dan Halem, MLB senior vice presi­dent and general counsel for labor. 
Guidelines were put into effect last year to govern the quality of wood grain. Halem said maple bats cracked about one-third less often last year, particularly in the second half of the season as bat makers complied. 
Bats made of maple and ash cracked at about the same rate, he said, but maple was more likely to break into pieces. 
“We want to keep doing more for safety,” Halem said. 
Oakland outfielder Ryan Sweeney felt for the minor lea­guers who might need to find new bats in 2010. 
“That’s brutal. I know they did stuff with the two-tone bats last year and I saw more bats break in spring training than ever before,” he said. “I use both and it depends on what I feel like. Some guys say the maple bats are better but it doesn’t matter to me.” 
Cleveland utilityman Chris Gimenez made his major league debut last year and will be exempt from the maple bat rules. 
“I think they’ll have a tough time with that,” Gimenez said. “I don’t see how that’s going to work. To me, it would be like they’re telling you that you can’t use a third base glove anymore because it’s 12 inches and not eight inches. I don’t know how that will go over with a lot of guys. 
“Say I break a bat and I’ve never been in the big leagues and the guy on deck has been in the big leagues,” Gimenez said. “He hands me his. I hit a home run with it. Are they going to take that away from me? I’m probably getting tossed out of that game if they try to do that.” 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
West Virginia downs Georgetown 
Associated Press 

MORGANTOWN, W.Va. — Da’Sean Butler scored 22 points in his final home game and No. 10 West 
Vi r g i n i a  b e a t  N o .  1 9  
G e o r g e t o w n  8 1 -6 8  o n  
Monday night.  

The Mountaineers (23-6, 12-5) clinched a double bye into the quarterfinals of the Big East tournament. 
Devin Ebanks added 15 points, Kevin Jones scored 14 and Darryl Bryant had 11 for West Virginia. 
The free fall continues for Georgetown (19 -9, 9-8), which was ranked No. 7 three weeks ago and has lost four of five. 
The Mountaineers led by as many as 27 points early in the second half and Georgetown, playing without ill leading scorer Austin Freeman, couldn’t catch up. 
Greg Monroe had 22 points and nine rebounds and Chris Wright scored 21 points for the Hoyas. 
Butler was introduced last among West Virginia’s three seniors before the game and received the loudest ovation. He has 1,936 points and will end up in third place on the school’s career scoring list behind Jerry West (2,309) and Hot Rod Hundley (2,180). 
Butler has the school record with 100 games scor­ing in double figures. 
West Virginia outscored Georgetown 27-14 from the free-throw line, forced 20 turnovers and picked apart the Hoyas with an up-tempo transition offense. 
Freeman, who is averaging 17 points per game and is Georgetown’s top 3-point shooter, is still recovering from stomach flu that limit­ed him to five points in only 23 minutes in a loss to Notre Dame on Saturday. Hollis Thompson started in Freeman’s place for the sec­ond straight game but was held to three points. 
Jones scored six points during West Virginia’s 10-0 run to start the second half that pushed the lead to 53­26 with 16:51 remaining. 

Wright, Georgetown ’s third-leading scorer at 13.9 points, helped soften the loss 
of Freeman, scoring 10 points in a 3:30 span and the Hoyas used runs of 9-0 and 8-0 in the second half to whittle the deficit to 62-53 with 5:55 left. 
West Virginia went without a field goal for more than 5 minutes and the sellout crowd grew restless, well aware of the Mountaineers’ propensity to allow oppo­nents to come back from big deficits several times this season. 
Butler grabbed a deflected pass and made a layin with 
3:37 left and West Virginia’s lead never fell below double digits again. 

Tuesday, March 2, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
Big East 
continued from page 20 
“[The GWLL] was a great conference for us. It really helped us in a period of growth for our program,” Corrigan said. “We leave with nothing but fond memo­ries of the GWLL.” 
But the time has come for change, Corrigan said. 
“At the same time, it’s a great time for us to join a league like the Big East,” he said. “I think the league itself is a tremendous thing for the sport of lacrosse.” 
Joining the Irish in the newly-formed Big East men’s lacrosse league will be defending national champion and No. 1 Syracuse, No. 14 Georgetown, Villanova, Rutgers, St. John’s and Providence. Of the seven teams, Syracuse was unani­mously picked to win the conference in the preseason by the seven coaches, and Notre Dame was picked to 
Watt 
continued from page 20 
but it wasn’t working. He began countering differently and keep­ing the ball high on Baumann. He was able to get some short balls and create opportunities for him­self.” 
The Irish again will face a tough team today against No. 12 Illinois. 
“We haven’t beaten them in Champaign in eight years,” Bayliss said. “Eight years ago we went to Champaign when they were the No. 1 team in the nation and [we] were able to beat them. They [have] a strong program, and we know it will be a tight match. They always draw a big crowd and advertise their events finish second. 
Now in a conference with two other top-15 teams, the Irish will face a more diffi­cult schedule throughout the regular season, a fact that should benefit Notre Dame come season’s end. Last sea­son Notre Dame’s weak schedule was criticized as the Irish entered the NCAA Tournament undefeated, only to lose in the first round to Maryland 7-3. 
“The tougher schedule does prepare you better,” Corrigan said. “Overall you learn more about yourself the harder schedule you play, and the more you know about yourself, the better prepared you are at the end of the year.” 
That strength of schedule should compensate for the conference’s lack of an auto­matic bid into the NCAA Tournament for the next two years, Corrigan said. 
“Whoever wins the league is going to the NCAA Tournament, there is no doubt about that,” he said. 
“Our job is to win enough games to get us into the NCAA Tournament, and if we win the Big East regular sea­son, we’ll be okay.” 
In order to win the Big East regular season, the Irish need to continue playing the way they have been playing 
— so far registering an 11-7 win over No. 2 Duke and a 12-8 win over Penn State 
Sunday  — with  one  major  
improvement.  
“ T h e  b i g g e s t  t h i n g  w e  

haven’t done consistently well in the first couple games is we haven’t cleared the ball well, and that can really hurt you,” Corrigan said. “When you get defensive stops, you need to turn those into offen­sive possessions and even offensive opportunities.” 
The Irish have five more matches to fine-tune their game before opening their first Big East conference sea­son on March 27 when they host Rutgers. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
through multiple  Wisconsin. We  
sets on the court.  may switch  
“We have  “We haven’t beaten  things around  
some injuries that are healing nicely,” Bayliss  them in Champaign in eight years.  against Illinois, but we are still looking for the  
said. “Watt  proper chem- 
showed that he is close to being all the way back  Bobby Bayliss Irish coach  istry.” The Irish will look to their dou­ 
having played  bles pairs to get  


MEN’S SWIMMING 

Top freshman making a splash for the Irish 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
As first-time performers on the intercollegiate stage, freshmen in all sports are often expected to undergo an adjustment period as they learn the college stage. The Irish freshmen, howev­er, have quickly adjusted and contributed in a number of key ways over the course of the team’s regular season and postseason. 
“The learning curve is sim­ilar to that which you see in basketball and football, ” Irish coach Tim Welsh said. “As a senior in high school you race against 14 -year­
olds 
and here you race against 23 -year-old men. Also, racers in college focus 

on 
technique and turns, which aren’t really empha­sized in high school.” 


Any discussion of the Notre Dame freshman class begins and ends with Bill Bass, who broke a number of records in a virtuoso debut season for the Irish. Bass, who came onto cam­pus as a decorated all ­stroke swimmer in high school, did not miss a beat in the pool. Bass’ highlights this season include a Notre Dame school record in the 200-yard individual medley with a time of 1:46.44 at the Big East championships in Pittsburgh. His performance came on top of a previous season-best time of 1:50.70 in the same event that scored a victory for the Irish in their Shamrock Invitational. Bass’s contribu­tions have not gone unno-
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba2@saintmarys.edu 
Schultz 
continued from page 20 
She won the 400 at the Big East Indoors this year with a time of 53.16 seconds, set­ting a new conference record. In her final season, Schultz said she knows it is her last chance to shine, and that is exactly what she intends to do — even as she looks back on three years with the team. 
“Track has made me real­ize I’m a little tougher than I once though I was, has helped me avoid the fresh­man 15, and has given me some of the best friends anyone could ever ask for,” ticed by his coach. 
“We’ve seen great things from Bill Bass right away,” Welsh said. “Especially at the Big East championships. It’s evident that he’s gotten bigger and stronger over the year.” 
A number of other Irish freshman have contributed for Notre Dame this year, among them breaststroke specialist Christopher Johnson. An Indiana state champion in the 100-yard breaststroke in high school, Johnson carried his breast­stroke success with him to the Irish pool. He took first in the Big East consolation round of his signature event with a time of 55.63 seconds and will look to move into the championship round in the coming years. 
“Chris Johnson has great initial speed, and you can’t coach speed,” Welsh said. “He has learned how to carry that through the whole race.” 
Welsh said several of his 
f r e s h m e n  w o u l d  s e e  
increased roles  come  n ext  
year’s swim season.  

“This is a very good fresh­man class, ” Welsh said. “We’re very confident that they ’re going to do great things in the coming years. There’s plenty where that came from too, because next year’s class is just as good.” 
Bass, Johnson and the rest of the Irish swimmers will be back in action this week­end at the Boiler-Make -It Invitational at Purdue on March 7. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
well.” 
Another struggle the Irish have been fighting to overcome is making sure that all their players are healthy and able to make it different looks,” Bayliss said. “We moved Casey [Watt] from playing with Tyler Davis, to playing with Stephen [Havens]. It was good to see them pull out a win over 
the team off to another strong start today against the Illini in order to keep up their winning ways. Notre Dame will face Illinois at 5 p.m. in Champaign. 
two matches on Sunday.” 
In two out of three of this weekend’s matches, Notre Dame was able to not only dominate the doubles portion, but also sweep the competition. 
“We changed our lineup around to try and create some Schultz said. 
The indoor season will conclude with the NCAA Championships March 12 ­13, where Schultz hopes to end her indoor career on a high note before continuing into her final outdoor sea­son. 
For the time being, she plans to continue making 
c o n t r i b u t i o n s  t o  t h e  t e a m  
she has grown to love.  
“ I  w i l l  m i s s  t h e  t e a m  

aspect of Notre Dame track,” Schultz said. “I run, lift and travel with these people every single day and I will miss all of them very much.” 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, March 2, 2010 
UConn 
continued from page 20 
For the second time this sea­son, the Irish fell hard to Connecticut, a team that in the end was simply too ath­letic, too talented and too good. A team with players, Connecticut guard Kalana Greene said, “weren’t plan­ning on losing.” 
Notre Dame was the only Big East team to play Connecticut twice this sea­son, and the results — Monday’s loss and a 70-46 loss on Jan. 16 — weren’t pretty. 
But was it really a disad­vantage to play Connecticut twice in one season? 
Absolutely not. Let’s play them more. 
schedule. Notre Dame played Connecticut twice. St. John’s, which won the No. 4 seed and a double-bye into the conference championship, repeated against last-place Seton Hall. 
While the question of fair­ness could have been avoid­ed altogether if the Irish had been able to defeat the Red Storm on the road last Tuesday, it should still be mentioned that Notre Dame had a significantly harder road to its 12-4 conference record than St. John’s did. 
But the Irish also got two chances to play the undisput­ed, far-and-away best team in the country. This can only help going forward, as they might see the Huskies again 
as the Big East 
tournament 
draws to a 
close, and 
maybe again had adjusted to the different style. 
How many more new strategies could Connecticut possibly throw into a third or fourth game against the same opponent? Notre Dame figured it out a little bit more Monday and, if called to play the Huskies again, will have that much more information with which to prepare. 
The Irish actually led Monday in several defensive categories, including blocks, steals and forced turnovers. If they can put that together with their solid post play and find a way to improve Monday’s dismal 31.1-per­cent shooting performance, the next match between the two teams could be a game worth watching until the end. 
Even if Notre Dame does not play Connecticut again this season, it can only improve by playing the best competition. After two games against the Huskies, possible NCAA Tournament matchups against No. 2 Stanford or No. 3 Tennessee — both of which lost to Connecticut in the regular season — may seem a little less daunting. 
If nothing else, playing Connecticut and other top teams could help Notre Dame get a little bit closer to a day when an opposing coach declares the team to be just “that good.” 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily of The Observer. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu. 
McGraw 
continued from page 20 

Bruszewski finished with 15 points and Devereaux Peters added seven rebounds and a career-high 15 points to lead No. 6 Notre Dame (25-4, 12-4). Despite the unexpected contri­butions in the post against a much larger Connecticut front-court, the perimeter offense was nonexistent against the Huskies (30-0, 16-0). The Irish shot 31 percent from the field and only made 4-of-14 attempts from behind the arc. 
“[Peters] played well last time we played them,” McGraw said. “She was able to score on them, and she got some nice baskets off assists and a couple of rebounds. Becca created a lot of her own, especially in the first half, really kind of kept us in the game. Both of them real­ly did well. I thought overall we were pressing a little bit, trying a little too hard to score.” 
Huskies senior forward Tina Charles, who entered Monday’s contest needing 13 points and 5 rebounds to become the all-time leading scorer and rebounder in school history, delivered the game’s top per­formance. Charles accom­plished both goals, finishing with 18 points and 8 rebounds, as the Irish had no answer for the first-team All-American. 
“I thought Tina Charles was an amazing player,” McGraw said. “Congratulations to her for getting the record. I thought we guarded her fairly well in the first half. In the second half, we forgot to go down and double her. We let her get bet­ter position, and I think she attacked a little bit more.” 
Charles may have been the unanimous player of the game, but the highlight of the night came in the second half in the form of a no-look, behind-the­back pass from Irish freshman guard Skylar Diggins to Peters, who finished with a reverse layup. Diggins finished with eight points, but the Connecticut defense frustrated the Irish guards all night. 
In addition to breaking Notre Dame’s 14-game home winning streak, the loss drops the Irish into a fourth-place tie with No. 16 St. John’s in the conference standings. The Irish will be the fifth seed in the Big East Championship after falling to the Red Storm earlier in the year, but McGraw said she is confident the team can regroup for the postseason. 
“I think they have to learn that your attitude is so impor­tant in how you approach things and how you go into the game,” McGraw said. “We’ve done it twice now, and we did-n’t learn the lesson the first time, which I thought we learned. So now we got to fig­ure out how we’re going to approach the rest of the sea­son.” 
Benefitting from a first-round bye, the Irish will take the rest of the week off before heading to Storrs, Conn., for a second-round conference tournament tilt Saturday against the winner of Friday’s first-round game between No. 12 seed Pittsburgh and No. 13 seed Louisville. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
Notre Dame’s after that in the 
“Really, they’re that
loss, coupled NCAA with St. John’s good.” Tournament. 77-65 win over In January, Pittsburgh Muffet McGraw Connecticut’s Monday, press defense 
Irish coach
bumped the Irish to the No. 5 seed in the Big East tour­nament. Instead of having a double-bye, Notre Dame will begin the tournament Saturday against the winner of Friday’s first-round game between the No. 12 seed Pittsburgh and the No. 13 seed Louisville. 
Each team in the 16-team Big East repeats against one other team over the course of the 16-game conference stifled Notre Dame, and the Huskies led 28­6 a little more than 10 min­
utes into the game. 
Monday, the score was 16­15 in favor of the Huskies after 10 minutes. 
Connecticut changed up their defense Monday, play­ing a zone that all but took the Irish guards out of the game but allowed junior for­wards Becca Bruszewski and Devereaux Peters to score 15 points apiece once the Irish 


Tuesday, March 2, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Tuesday, March 2, 2010 page 20 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

‘They’re that good’ 
Unbeaten Huskies hand 


Playing No. 1 UConn team first home loss 
twice should help ND 
By CHRIS MASOUD 

There were a lot of reasons 
for Notre Dame’s 76-51 loss to 
No. 1 Connecticut Monday. But 
Notre Dame failed to defend 
Sports Writer 

Irish coach Muffet McGraw its home floor for the first time 
summed them up in three this season, falling to 
words. Connecticut 76-51 in a rematch 
“They’re a with major Big East tournament 
great team,” seeding implications. The Irish 
she said. pulled to within 14 points with 
“Really, 11 minutes to go in the second 
they’re that half, but the nation’s No. 1 team 
good.” broke off a 13-0 run to push its 
They’re winning streak to 69 games. 
that good. “Last game we weren’t in it at 
The all, so if we’re in it for 10 min-
Huskies have 
Laura Myers 

now won 69 ment,” Irish coach Muffet 
utes tonight, that’s improve-

straight McGraw said. “I think there’s 
games, one 
Sports Writer 

shy of their in this game. They’re just really, 
definitely more highlights for us 

own record they’re that good. They have to 
set from play poorly and we have to play 
2001-03. This is their second well. And we didn’t play well, 
straight undefeated regular and they didn’t play poorly. That 
season, something they also was a tough combination.” 
accomplished in the 2001-02 Junior forward Becca 
and 2002-03 seasons. 
PAT COVENEY/The Observer 

Senior guard Lindsay Schrader tries to shoot around Connecticut senior guard Kalana Greene dur­
see MCGRAW/page 18 see UCONN/page 18
ing Notre Dame’s 76-51 home loss Monday. The loss was Notre Dame’s first at home this season. 



TRACK & FIELD 

Schultz looking to shine on the track in final season 
By MEGAN FINNERAN Sports Writer  Joanna Schultz, this lifestyle was never an option. Schultz began running in  s c h o ol w i t h a n i mp r es s i ve resume that included win-ning outdoor state titles in  home, and the girls on the t e a m m a d e m e f e e l w e l -come.”  a time of 53.12 seconds. She a d v a n c e d t o t h e N C A A M i d e a s t R e g i o n a l s , w h e r e  
seventh grade, and thanks to  t h e  2 0 0 -a n d  4 0 0 -m e t e r  In her junior year she took  she placed fifth and barely  
A stereotypical college life  r e l e n t l e s s  e n c o u r a g e m e n t  r aces  all four years . After  eighth in the 400 at the 2009  missed out  on  the chance to  
is  one  of partying, enjoying  f r o m  h e r  m o m ,  s h e  n e v e r  winning champiosnhips and  N C A A  I n d o o r  N a t i o n a l s ,  c o m p e t e  i n  t h e  n a t i o n a l  
life and doing nothing pro- stopped.  breaking records  across  the  e a r n i n g  t h e  t i t l e  o f  A l l -championships. Now Schultz  
ductive  as  often  as  possible.  “I started running because  b o a r d  i n  W i s c o n s i n ,  s h e  American, which she called  i s  m o r e  d e t e r m i n e d  t h a n  
T hos e Saturday  o r  Su n da y  I wasn’t athletic enough  to  decided Notre Dame was the  t h e  b e s t  m e m o r y  o f  h e r  ever.  
morning jogs around campus  play softball, and everyone  next step.  career  thus far. From there,  A f t e r  h a v i n g  s u r g e r y  o n  
y o u  v o w e d  t o  r u n  b e c o m e  i n  m i d d l e  s c h o o l  d i d  a l l  “ N o t r e  D a m e  w a s  a  b i g  Schultz’s  success  continued  her stomach last September,  
f e w  a n d  f a r  b e t w e e n ,  a n d  three  seasons  of sports,  so  I  name  with  a small and com- i n t o  t h e  o u t d o o r  s e a s o n  Schultz has recovered and  
ex e r cis i n g so m e t i mes g e t s  h a d  t o  d o  s o m e t h i n g , ”  f o r t a b l e  f e e l i n g , ”  S c h u l t z  where she  won  the 400 hur­ become stronger than  ever.  
pushed to the back burner.  Schultz said.  said. “It  was  close enough,  d l e s  a t  t h e  B i g  E a s t  2 0 0 9  
F o r Irish se n io r sprinte r  S c h u l t z  g r a d u a t e d  h i g h  y e t  f a r e n o u g h  a w a y f r o m  outdoor championships with  see SCHULTZ/page 17  

MEN’S LACROSSE 
Big East poses new threats 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame won the last three GWLL championships, but this year has no chance to defend that title. Rather, the Irish will go after the first -ever Big East men’s lacrosse title in the first year the conference has sponsored the sport. 
In its 16 years in the GWLL, Notre Dame became a nation­ally-recognized program, fin­ishing in first place 12 of those 16 years. Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said despite the promise the Big East holds for the Irish, the GWLL helped make the No. 3 Irish (2-0) what they are today. 
see BIG EAST/page 17 

MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish prepared to take on Illini on the road 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 

After breaking their three-match losing streak with wins over Michigan State, No. 36 Wisconsin, and Toledo over the week­end, the No. 31 Irish are set to take on the Illini in Champaign, Ill., today. 
“It was a great weekend for us,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “I’m really proud of how our team competed against Wisconsin, who is a very good team. They ’re a legitimate top -20 team. They beat Florida State a couple weeks ago outdoors without having practiced outdoors.” 
One of Notre Dame’s (6­
5) bright spots this past weekend came from No. 28 sophomore Casey Watt’s performance at No. 1 singles. 
Watt was able to defeat the nation’s No. 7 player, Wisconsin ’s Moritz Baumann, in three sets, 2­6, 6-2, 6-4. 
“Casey Watt had a fan ­tastic weekend,” Bayliss said. “He changed up some of his tactics after the first set and they real­ly paid off for him. He was trying to play aggressively 
see WATT/page 17 





