the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Seven arrests made over football weekend 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
A sold-out crowd of 82,000 witnessed the Irish season opener in the football stadium 
S a tu r d a y,  M i k e  S ea m o n,  
d i r ec t o r  o f  G a me d a y  
Operations, said.  

Police also made several arrests on campus, with one man stopped on campus out­side the Stadium for public intoxication, according to a statement issued by Phil Johnson, director of Notre Dame Security Police. 
“A man detained for public intoxication following a com­plaint of public indecency was transported to the hospital due to his high level of intoxi­cation,” the release said. “This case will be forwarded to the prosecutor’s office for review of charges.” 
Seven arrests were made in the Stadium, and one person was transported to the hospi­tal due to alcohol consump­tion, the release said. Thirty-three people were removed from the Stadium for rule vio­lations — mostly impairment 
or possession of alcohol. There were no citations for underage alcohol violations outside of the Stadium. 
An estimated 95,000 people were on campus Saturday, and Seamon said people flocked to attend game week­end activities. 
“There was a lot of positive energy on campus,” he said. 
Seamon said more than 1,500 attended a luncheon Friday where Irish coach Brian Kelly and cornerback Darrin Walls spoke. Seamon said he is predicting even more attendees for this Friday’s luncheon before the Michigan game. 
“When you have the teams within driving distance, you have larger crowds,” he said. 
The tunnel in the Stadium is open again this football sea-
see GAME/page 4 



Co-ex forum offers answers 

By BRIDGET MEADE 
News Writer 
Vice President of Student Affairs Karen Johnson attended a Student Government Association (SGA) sponsored forum Tuesday night to discuss co­ex-change meal tickets. 
Johnson said nonessential co-ex-change meal tickets — which allow Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame students to eat at the other campus — will not return in the foreseeable future. 
Options are being explored, Johnson said during the question-and-answer session attended by close to 50 stu­dents and administrators in the Saint Mary’s Student Center Lounge. 
With the new policy instat­ed at the beginning of the school year, students are no longer allowed to receive co-exchange tickets without prior approval from director of Dining Services Barry Bowles. 
Such permission would be granted with reasonable grounds for missing a meal at the Saint Mary’s Dining Hall, such as participation in Notre Dame sponsored clubs or classes, Johnson said. Meal tickets simply for social dining, however, are no longer available. 
The forum was organized to allow the Saint Mary’s administration to address misconceptions about the change in the program while allowing students to ask questions and address con­cerns. 

“We’ve received numerous e-mails and questions con­cerning the co-ex program, and we wanted to give the students a voice to convey their interest in a manner that would benefit both the students and the administra­tion managing the issue,” student government presi­dent Rachael Chesley said. 
Richard Speller, vice presi­dent of finance and adminis-
DAN JACOBS | Observer Graphic 

tration, said the change is due to a conflict in the distri­bution of the co-ex tickets, not financial issues. The finance committee expects the change in the program to have a neutral effect on the school’s budget. 
Many students expressed concern for meal ticket avail­ability for their individual circumstances. Bowles told students they can approach the dining services with their unique situations for co-ex consideration. 
see FORUM/page 4 


ROTC works to ‘serve others’ with blood drive 

Observer File Photo Lindsay McMahon, a 2010 graduate, has her blood drawn at the ROTC blood drive on Sept. 8, 2009. 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
In keeping with the spirit of service at Notre Dame, the University’s three Reserve Officers’ Training Corps (ROTC) branches are sponsoring their semi-annual blood drive today and Thursday. 
The blood drive takes place from noon to 6 p.m. both days in the LaFortune Ballroom. The drive will be run by the service clubs of the Army, Navy and Air Force branches: the Alliance to Lead and Serve (ATLAS) Club, the Trident Naval Society and the Arnold Air Society. 
“A central idea of the military is looking to serve others at all times,” senior Army ROTC cadet Kyle Hanratty said. “This event is a great way for us to accomplish that goal.” 
Hanratty said the blood drive 
see BLOOD/page 4 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Students travel to war-torn nations page 3  Now and then page 8  Football: preparing for Michigan page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Wednesday, September 8, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT  S YOUR FAVOR TE CLASS SO FAR?
THE OBSERVER 






P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 djacobs1@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Meaghan Veselik Alicia Smith Chris Allen Caitlyn Kalscheur Scene Graphics Jordan Gamble Melissa Kaduck Viewpoint Photo Patricia Dan Jacobs Fernandez 


OFFBEAT 

Unfortunate bobcat climbs power pole, causes brush fire 
PIRU, Calif. — A bobcat climbing a power pole got electrocuted and sparked a five-acre brush fire in California’s Ventura County. County fire Capt. Dan Preston told the Ventura County Star that the bobcat was apparently chasing an owl or another bird when it touched the power lines, caught fire and fell to the ground in a rural area near Piru. 
The fire was reported at 
3:36 a.m. Monday atop Torrey Peak. More than 40 firefighters extinguished the blaze about five hours later. 
No homes were threat­ened and no one was hurt. 
Brendon Sullivan  Connor Sea  Bryce Burton  Lauren Elliot  Vickey McBride  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  junior  senior  
O’Neill  Dillon  Siegfried  Pasquerilla East  Welsh Family  

“College “Fiction “Sociology has “Foresight.” “My favorite 
Seminar: Labor, English.” always been my class is Catholic Rae and favorite.” Fiction and Dignity.” Film.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

The bobcat’s charred body was found beneath the power lines. 
Politician disturbed by men with exposed boxers 
BATON ROUGE, La. — A Baton Rouge Metro Council member wants the parish to support a pub lic awareness campaign against men who wear their pants so low that their boxer shorts show. Councilwoman C. Denise Marcelle has a slogan for the campaign: “Low pants, no chance.” 
“I hate to see it and I see so much of it in my district,” Marcelle said. “It’s disre­spectful to the elderly, to young kids and to women.” 
Her resolution, on the agenda for discussion Wednesday, says wearing saggy pants creates nega­tive stereotypes and that “those who wear saggy pants are hurting their chances of becoming employable, educated and productive citizens.” 
Marcelle said she’d like to pass a law allowing police to cite and fine people for wearing saggy pants that expose their underwear, but recognizes that constitu­tional issues prevent such a law. 
A public-awareness cam­paign is the next-best thing to try to get these young men to hitch up their pants, she said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
Notre Dame ROTC and the American Red Cross are sponsoring a blood drive today at noon in the LaFortune Student Center Ballroom. 
The Notre Dame Department of Physics is holding a colloquium entitled “Observable Signatures of Neutron Star Mergers” with Dr. Brian Metzger from Princeton University today at 
4:00 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. Refreshments will be served in 202 Nieuwland Science Hall at 
3:30 p.m. 
The School of Architecture is holding “The John Burgee Lecture” with architectural historian Lucy Archer today at 4:30 p.m. in 104 Bond Hall. 
The Office of Community Relations is holding a lecture, “Creating a Safe Community: Meet the Indiana State Excise Police”, tonight from 5:30 
p.m. until 6:30 p.m. at the Notre Dame Downtown Office located at 217 South Michigan Street in South Bend. 
The Kaneb Center is holding a panel called “Starting Your Academic Job Search” from 
5:30 p.m. until 6:45 p.m. in 119 DeBartolo Hall tonight. 
Shakespeare’s “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” will be performed by Actors from the London Stage at Washington Hall at 7:30 p.m. tonight. Tickets are $12 for students and available at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center ticket office or by vis­iting performingarts.nd.edu 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday Game Day Sunday 



CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 


70 62 HIGH 7072 7372
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


58 51 LOW 5355 6057 






Wednesday, September 8, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Students to travel to war-torn nations 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
While most MBA students will be crunching numbers or analyz­ing financial models, 18 MBA students will travel to Lebanon, Uganda and Kenya through the Mendoza College of Business’s “Business on the Frontlines” class — and they will work to improve the economies of these war-torn nations. 
Professor Viva Bartkus teaches the class, which is open to stu­dents in the Mendoza College of Business Master’s of Business Administration program and to the Kroc Institute’s Master’s of Peace Studies students. 
“Only at Notre Dame would you have a class like this,” Bartkus said. 
Students in “Business on the Frontlines” spend one quarter or “mod” researching a country before traveling there for 10 days to work with Catholic chari­ties in the country. After the trip, the students spend a second “mod” constructing a project to help build a healthy economy in that country. 
The unique class has already gained admirers outside of the University. Forbes recently ranked Bartkus’ class in the Top 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Group discusses off-campus ties 
seeming decline in volunteer 
By JOHN CAMERON 
work undertaken by students, 
News Writer 
which was highlighted in last year’s improveND survey. 
The Council of “According to the survey, stu-Representatives’ (COR) Tuesday dents did not do as much service meeting concentrated on as people think, especially the upcoming educational events for male population” Soler said. “We students about the law, boosting know there’s football season and student volunteerism and other things happening, but it’s upcoming community relations something for us to think about.” events. Soler said Pat McCormick, 
Members discussed events Social Concerns Committee planned for the weekend of Sept. chair, is working to develop a 10 Most Innovative business school classes, which Bartkus considers proof that Notre Dame is doing something right. 
17. On Saturday,  service.nd.edu  
from 2 to 4 p.m.,  site  which  
student govern­ “It would be a  would give stu­ 
ment will be co­sponsoring a block party at  great thing for the community to see  dents greater access to avail­able volunteer  
Eddy  Street  students and alumni  options.  
C o m m o n s , meant to encourage stu­ together. It could go to benefiting  “It would be a clearinghouse; sort of an agen­ 
dents to explore the Commons. “All the ven­ nonprofits in the community.”  da for service opportunities,” Soler said.  
dors are going  In light of an  
to  have  open  Ryan Holly  upcoming pres- 
doors  with  off-campus president  entation  by  

“This shows the strengths of Notre Dame’s focus on values, on ethics, on Catholic social teach-Bartkus with transforming his perspective on the business world. 
“Professor Bartkus is one of those professors that changes the way you look at things,” Shaban said. “She has the power 
ing,” Bartkus said. “This kind of class is at the heart of what Notre Dame should be doing.” 
“Business on the Frontlines” is part of an entire initiative in the Mendoza College of Business to focus on ethical business leader­ship, Bartkus said. 
“This is the direction that the Mendoza College of Business is 

“This was an incredible opportunity to make an impact in a region of the world where I have cultural roots. I improved my Arabic while learning to solve business problems.” 
Omar Shaban MBA student 
to inspire her students to go out and change the world for the better — and that really showed in this class.” 
Shaban and five other stu­dents went to Lebanon through the class. Six other students went to Kenya and another six went to Uganda. Students in the previous year’s 
heading in,” Bartkus said. “We have to ask more of business and more of ourselves.” 
The students in Bartkus’ class have to beat out stiff competition to get there, contending with eighty other applicants for the eighteen prized seats. 
Omar Shaban, who took the class during the 2009-10 school year, said he credits Professor class went to Bosnia as well as Lebanon. 
Shaban chose to study Lebanon because of his Egyptian cultural heritage. 
“This was an incredible oppor­tunity to make an impact in a region of the world where I have cultural roots,” Shaban said. “I improved my Arabic while learn­ing to solve business problems.” 
After returning from the Christmas break Lebanon trip, Shaban and the other students in his group built an economic sim­ulator, designed to build peaceful communities through economic interests. 
“It’s essentially a game that brings together members of dif­ferent religious sects that don’t want to cooperate and shows them how they can cooperate with each other economically,” Shaban said. “The different groups learn how they can bene­fit from each other.” 
Shaban’s economic simulator is one example of the students helping the country they have researched — but their visits to the countries help the students too. 
“I have a changed outlook on the role of business in the world,” Shaban said. “The role of business should be to bring peo­ple together, to unify them. Business is a powerful tool that people underestimate.” 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 
either discounts or freebies,” Erin Pankiw, director of Special Events, said. “It’s just kind of encouraging students to go and see what’s there. They’ll be able to offer feedback about what they’d like to see at Eddy Street.” 
Punchcards will be distributed on campus Friday, and students who visit all the vendors will receive a free shirt or tote bag. 
“We thought it would be a great way for students to feel part of Eddy Street,” student government president Catherine Soler said. 
The night after the block party, 
C.L. Lindsay — an attorney who speaks to students about inter­acting with law enforcement — will be returning to campus to have a dialogue with students. 
The following Monday, Morrissey Manor will be holding a panel with members from the Office of Residence Life and Housing and the Notre Dame Security Police, tentatively scheduled for 8 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall. 
The Council also discussed a Soler to the 
Alumni Association, alumni relations were also discussed. 
In keeping with the dialogue about increasing service and improving community relations, Ryan Holly, off-campus presi­dent, suggested a “don’t forget South Bend” campaign, which would involve joint efforts between students and alumni in helping the community. 
“It would be a great thing for the community to see students and alumni together. It could go to benefiting nonprofits in the community,” Holly said. 
Soler concluded the meeting with reminding Council mem­bers of the importance of contin­uing to encourage students to be mindful of police in the approaching football weekend. 
“We want to again encourage people to be safe, be aware and make smart decisions,” she said. “Last weekend was great, and we want to continue with that.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 


ND expert discusses Middle East 
had. and age,” he said. “Discussing 
Special to The Observer 
“Any progress in the negotia-borders is an important part of 
Today’s summit at the White tions could lead to its break-up,” the negotiations, but it could House with the Israeli prime he said. “The talks could bring only be effective if there is gen-minister, Palestinian president into political crisis both commu-uine agreement on both sides and President Obama is impor-nities and could that the way to tant, not because it would lead reveal the extent resolve the con­
“The talks could 
to a Palestinian-Israeli peace of seriousness of flict is through deal -very few believe that, said the parties to expose the question territorial com-Asher Kaufman, associate pro-reach a compro-of feasibility of promise. Right fessor of history and Peace mise.” now, there are 
reaching an
Studies at the University, but Beyond the dis-strong Israeli because the talks that will be agreements over agreement in this and Palestinian launched soon thereafter would core issues, day and age.” forces that dis-force the parties to officially Kaufman said agree even over present their positions on the there are press-this issue.” 
Asher Kaufman
bones of contention: mutual ing problems A member of recognition, boundaries, that can only be associate professor the Notre Dame Jerusalem, refugees, security a d d r e s s e d History and Peace faculty since and water, among others. domestically by 2005, Kaufman 
Studies 
The Palestinians are divided Israelis and p r e v i o u s l y between Hamas in Gaza andthe Palestinians taught at Palestinian Authority in the themselves, so launching the Hebrew University in Jerusalem West Bank, and Kaufman, who peace talks could potentially do and served as a research fellow specializes in the Arab-Israeli that as well. at the Harry S. Truman conflict, said in Israel, the cur-“The talks could expose the Research Institute for the rent coalition government is the question of feasibility of reach-Advancement of Peace, leading most right-wing Israel has ever ing an agreement in this day its Middle East Unit. 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, September 8, 2010 
operating the pedal cabs. Friday night’s drummer’s 
Game 

circle saw a large attendance continued from page 24 also, he said. Seamon esti­mated 3,000 fans showed up. 
son for fans during Fridays But attention has already before home games, Seamon turned to next week’s home said. More than 4,900 people game. walked through the gates and “We’re guessing we’ll break onto the field. 100,000 people this week-
Also available for the first end,” Seamon said. time this season is trans -He said gameday.nd.edu will portation for those with walk-have schedules for all game­ing difficul -day events for ties, he said. the rest of the Golf carts and season. Next 
pedal cabs “The pedal cabs were a week’s high ­are available, lights include a
huge success. They 
and more student march than 1,000 were run by to the pep rally people took on-campus clubs, and on the Irish advantage of Green, which is 
the profts go back to
the golf cart the only parade 
the clubs.” 
rides. down Notre “The pedal Dame Avenue cabs were a in recent histo-
Mike Seamon 
huge suc -ry. And the U.S. 
director
cess,” he Army Black 
Gameday Operations 
said.” They Daggers will be were run by parachuting in 
on -campus with the game clubs, and balls and flags. the profits go back to the “People are happy and clubs.” excited for the new era,” 
For the next home game, Seamon said. the Notre Dame Cycling club, women’s water polo club and Contact Amanda Gray at Notre Dame ROTC will be agray3@nd.edu 


Professor analyzes treatment options for autistic children 
nose earlier — regardless of break through those barriers dren with autism how to use who’s 11, 12, even 18? These 
Special to The Observer 

the treatment — means earlier and communicate more effec-and understand them. parents are still looking for 
When one out of every 100 intervention and better out-tively is the focus of Diehl’s “The most important part of ways to help their children.” children born in this country is comes,” said Diehl. current research projects and social interaction is under-One of Diehl’s studies is diagnosed with autism, treat-As with many developmental therapies, all of which are standing what’s being said and geared toward older children ment for those children disorders, the diagnosis of behavior-based. being able to and adolescents requires as much “autism” can “In a simple conversation, be under-with high-func­attention as the mean some -there are gestures, facial stood,” Diehl tioning autism or 
“The signature charac­

diagnoses. “Now we’re able to thing different expressions, words and voice explained. Asperger syn­
teristic for all children

“Ten or 20 reliably diagnose as for each child. inflection — all of which come “If we can drome, and years ago we Autism disor-naturally for most people,” bridge this with autism is diffcul-focuses on lan­
early as 18 months, 
were lucky to ders fall with-Diehl explained. social gap, it guage compre­
ty communicating ”

diagnose a child with some studies in a spectrum “Children with autism can will open up hension. by age four or trying to pinpoint it of behaviors, accomplish these behaviors so many “We are trying five,” said Joshua some more individually, but putting them doors for Joshua Diehl to understand 
within six months.” 
Diehl, assistant serious and together is difficult for them. children with Assistant Professor how children professor of psy-difficult to These intuitive behaviors need autism and Psychology with autism spec­chology at the Joshua Diehl o v e r c o m e to be taught to them.” help them in trum disorders University of Assistant Professor than others. In therapy sessions with all aspects of perform on a Notre Dame, who “The signa-children with autism, Diehl their lives.” range of tasks measuring lan-
Psychology 
specializes in ture charac-focuses on breaking down Most current research stud-guage comprehension abilities, d e v e l o p m e n t a l teristic for all those individual behaviors and ies are focused on early inter-and compare them with typi­disorders, with an emphasis children with autism is diffi-teaching communication piece vention, but there still is a cally developing children and on autism spectrum disorders culty communicating. Many of by piece. need for intervention for older adolescents.” and dyslexia. the children desire to be One method is through the children with autism. Diehl stresses the impor­
“Now we’re able to reliably social, but comprehension is a use of “Nao,” a robot that is “We need to focus on servic-tance of continuing research diagnose as early as 18 barrier for them. They don’t programmed to simplify vari-es and therapies for children in order to know what works months, with some studies try-always understand social con-ous communication behaviors beyond the first few years of for which children, and how to ing to pinpoint it within six ventions or norms,” Diehl said. like gestures and facial life,” Diehl said. “What can we use that information for effec­months. Our ability to diag-Helping children with autism expressions, and teach chil-do for a child with autism tive treatment plans. 
Forum 
continued from page 24 
The administration in atten­dance also indicated interest in contracting a new agree­ment between the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s dining serv­ices, although nothing has been formalized. These options would not connect the 
m ea l  plan s  o f  students  
be t we e n  th e  t wo  scho o ls,  
Johnson said.  

Junior Emily Schmitt said while she finds herself better informed about the issue after having attended the forum, she feels the forum did little to change the situation. 
“The administration was willing to listen, but not nec­essarily act on the opinions we expressed,” Schmitt said. “My expectations for the forum were fulfilled, but I was extremely disappointed in what I heard.” 
Students with questions and concerns regarding the co-ex program can contact Karen Johnson at kjohnson@saint­marys.edu and Barry Bowles at bbowles@saintmarys.edu 
Contact Bridget Meade at bmeade01@saintmarys.edu 
Blood 
continued from page 1 
is open to all students, staff and faculty, not just ROTC stu­dents, and that campus-wide participation is necessary for the three service clubs to sur­pass last year’s total of 235 pints of blood donated. 
But Hanratty said achieving the blood donation goal is not simply a matter of beating last year’s total; rather, the more blood donated, the more peo­ple will benefit from the gen­erosity of the Notre Dame com­munity. 
“Being in the military gives you a whole different perspec­tive on the vital need for blood as a means of saving lives,” Hanratty said. “But that need is a common one that isn’t just limited to the military.” 
In order to address this “vital need” for blood as fully as pos­sible, all the blood donated at the event will be given to the American Red Cross. In addi­tion, snacks and drinks will be provided to all donors. 
The semi-annual blood drive is one of several service events sponsored by the three ROTC service clubs, including the Trident Naval Society’s 24­hour run around campus and ATLAS’s volunteer program at the Robinson Community Learning Center. 
Hanratty also said ATLAS is looking to have a group of stu­dents travel with non-ROTC Notre Dame students to Honduras during fall break to work in orphanages there. 
“This blood drive and the other ROTC service projects really represent the military’s commitment to service,” Hanratty said. “But we need the help of all students to accomplish our service goals.” 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 


Wednesday, September 8, 2010 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 5 
Soros gives $100 million to Human Rights Watch 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Billionaire philanthropist George Soros is putting up $100 million, one of the largest donations of its kind, to expand Human Rights Watch and help it court more international support. 
The financier and major donor to liberal causes said Tuesday that it’s become a dis­advantage for the group to be primarily funded by Americans because the U.S. has lost the “moral high ground” when it comes to fighting abuses. 
The gift, to be distributed over 10 years, is meant as a dramatic start toward major growth for the group, which documents abuses and advo­cates for human rights in about 90 countries. 
Soros’ donation is meant to attract enough additional money to boost the organiza­tion’s budget from $48 million a year to $80 million, let it hire about 120 more people and set up new offices to encourage such emerging powers as India and Brazil to make human rights a keystone of their for­eign policies. 
But the money also is meant to make its donor base as international as its outlook. Plans call for Human Rights Watch to draw at least half its income and most of its board members from outside the U.S. within five years. Now, about 70 percent of the money and 80 percent of the board mem­bers are U.S.-based. 
Soros considers that a liabili­ty — one he blamed on a fre­quent target of his, former President George W. Bush. 
“They’re basically an American organization advo­cating human rights all over the world. But the United States has lost the moral high ground, during the Bush administration, and, therefore, it runs into opposition because there’s resentment of American interference,” Soros said in an interview in his sleek office in a midtown Manhattan high-rise. “ ... It’s a drawback, to be American in this context.” 
For its part, Human Rights Watch says it feels it’s seen as independent of the U.S. gov­ernment, and should be. 
“But it is helpful for our organization to personify the global values we promote,” Executive Director Kenneth Roth said. 
While the gift isn’t a record-breaker in the annals of phi­lanthropy — those are meas­ured in billions — experts say it’s one of the largest in many years to human rights, a cause that in recent years has tended to attract fewer mammoth gifts than such organizations as medical centers and universi­ties. 
For human-rights philan­thropy, “that is a stunning, jaw-dropping amount,” said Doug White, the academic director of the New York University Heyman Center for Fundraising and Philanthropy. 
Soros is among several bil­lionaires who have given up a sizeable chunk of their for­tunes to philanthropy. TV mogul Ted Turner has given $1 billion to United Nations caus­es. Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates and investor Warren Buffett have joined forces to advance education, health and other causes around the world with their billions, and are encouraging other tycoons to do the same. 
Soros’ pledge Tuesday is his largest-ever single donation to a human-rights group, though his Open Society Foundations give about $100 million each year to human-rights-related organizations around the world, including some with a legal or criminal-justice focus. 

Soros has donated more than $8 billion during his lifetime. His Open Societies Foundations are on pace to give away about $800 million this year on caus­es ranging from education to helping Pakistan recover from its recent floods. 
Soros has been involved with the 32-year-old Human Rights Watch for decades. Indeed, he says he cut his teeth as a phi­lanthropist by attending week­ly meetings there in its early years. 
The group has come under fire in the last two years from critics — including a former chairman — who feel it has been unfairly harsh toward Israel and favored Palestinian viewpoints. 


The Observer 

Viewpoint
page 6 Wednesday, September 8, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
A shining 
Golden 
Dome 

For the first time in a few years, more than just the Golden Dome was shining on a football Saturday at Notre Dame. 
Under new head coach Brian Kelly, the Irish showed a new attitude and a greater focus to detail than what has been seen under recent coaching regimes. 
They tackled, ran the ball 


Andrew Owens 
effectively and had some bright 
Sports 
spots on special 

 roduction 
teams — three 
Editor 

aspects that were rarely seen during the 16-21 stretch over the past three seasons. 
It was a step in the right direction for a university that has been des­perate for football success since the end of the 1993 season. With a coach as accomplished as Kelly (172-57-2 during his time at Grand Valley State, Central Michigan and Cincinnati), there are many reasons to believe that Notre Dame could once again join the elite of college football. 
But one game or even one season does not determine the future suc­cess of the program. 
Irish fans have been down this road before, anointing Tyrone Willingham and Charlie Weis the saviors of Notre Dame football after impressive starts (8-0 and a 9-2 reg­ular season, respectively). But for each coach, initial success was soon forgotten due to recurring failures. 
After three years under the Willingham regime, it was clear that the “Molder of Men” was incompe­tent unless on a golf course. I take that back — no one has mastered the ability to stick his index finger into the air after a rare touchdown like Willingham did. 
Although Weis was a better coach and fit for the program than his predecessor, he too was unable to overcome some coaching demons, most namely the ability to field an above average defense. 
I’m not saying that Kelly too will fail. If there is a man who can turn the program around, I believe it is Kelly. He transformed Division II school Grand Valley State into a powerhouse and developed both Central Michigan and Cincinnati from cellar dwellers to conference champions. 
I’m also not saying that this cam­pus should not be excited about the new-look Irish. Let’s be loud and enthusiastic and support this team as much as we can. This could be the start of something special for a proud university and football pro­gram. We could be the witnesses of the resurrection of Notre Dame foot­ball and a defining moment for the program. 
So when the team goes out there Saturday and dominates Michigan, go crazy. But we might want to wait a little longer before we start count­ing National Championships. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
Mindless affirmation in pop music 
[Author’s Note: Due to declining interest in the column, I have added trivia tidbits and “Mad Libs” to enter­tain our easily distracted readership, who we know are really dying to Brooks Smith finish with the Viewpoint so that 
Intellectual 
they can get to the sports section and the comics at the end of The Observer.] 
Here’s a fun game. Listen to your favorite song and count how many times some variation of the word “yes” pops up. That means any combination of: “yeah”, “uh-huh”, “mm-hmm”, “all right,” “okay,” and so on. Odds are pretty good that your tally will be in the teens. 
Now that you’ve got that raw numerical data, listen again. This time, try to figure out, from the con­text, what exactly that ‘yes’ means. What purpose does it serve in the larger sweep of the lyrics? 
Ninety percent of the time the answer will be: absolutely nothing. 
I call this phenomenon “mindless affirmation.” The mindless affirmation is rampant through pop music. Part of this is because pop vocalists, who usu­ally take front and center whether or not they have a band, probably feel uncomfortable saying nothing for an extended period of time, and so search for verbal fillers. Think of Michael Jackson’s “hee-hee!” in ‘The Way You Make Me Feel,’ or “cha­moan!” in ‘Bad’. Or, for a more cur­rent example, Britney Spears’ flat, dis­affected “owww” after every repetition of the chorus of ‘(You Drive Me) 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“It is easier to fight for one’s principles than to live up to them.” 
Alfred Adler Austrian doctor 
Crazy’. [Full disclosure: The author unironically enjoys both of these artists.] 
Other popular choices include ‘whoa,’ ‘hey,’ ‘whoomp!” (as in “there it is”), and so on. 
Justin Timberlake “SexyBack” is probably the best example of the mindless affirmation: Every time he sneers that he’s bringing sexy back (as if it ever left), some tool in the back­ground barks “YEP” threateningly, as if he’ll bash our face in if we disagree. During the chorus, when a rapper exhorts the floor to “get [their] sexy on.” a sultry voice breathes “Yes,” presumably to incite their listeners to instantaneous dancefloor freaking. 
Justin Timberlake is a pop genius. 
Trivia Fact No. 1: An entire band once named themselves after the word Yes. 
Pop Culture Mad Lib: See if you can fill in the blanks to form the name of a famous indie buzzband: Clap Your Hands Say ______ 
Did You Know? A song by Usher fea­tures a chorus which consists entirely of twelve repetitions of the word “Yeah.” 
I think of these endless repetitions of agreement and affirmation as akin to laugh tracks in sitcoms. They are there to tell the listener that, “yes!”, these songs are worth listening to, that “yeah” they are a lot of fun, that it is “okay” that they like this kind of music, that their taste in music is pretty “all right.” People demand to know when to laugh at unfunny jokes and they demand to know when to enjoy overproduced pop. There are other people who have noticed this need, and they have made a mint sup-
Submit a Letter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
plying it. 
They go beyond the realm of ‘verbal filler’ and well into the country of ‘mental infiltrator’. 
Trivia Fact No 2: The band Yes is named after the word “yes.” 
Pop Culture Mad Lib: See if you can fill in the blanks to form the name of a famous indie buzzband: Does It Offend You, ______? 
Is it fair that pop stars regularly exploit the word ‘yes’ and its syn­onyms in order to make lots of money? On some level, perhaps. But in the grand scheme of things, we all need a little affirmation in our lives to get us through the day. Even when it’s totally meaningless. As Albert Camus, founder of existentialism, once said, “Heey! Heeeeey! Heeeeey! Hey soul sister, I don’t wanna miss a single thing you do, oh yeah … tonight.” 
Trivia Fact No. 3: “Yes” is the name of a famous progressive rock band from the 1980s. 
Pop Culture Mad Lib: See if you can fill in the blanks to form the name of a famous indie buzzband: _____ _____ _____s. 
So if you’re feeling sad and low, just activate your stereo. And listen to the magic sound, of music that’s not underground. It’s mainstream pop, it sounds so good, it makes you move like you know you should! Owww! Hee-hee! Cha-moan! Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah! (Poem para­phrased from Dr. Seuss.) 
Brook Smith is a senior. He can be contacted at bsmith26@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Do not fear death so much, but rather the inadequate life.” 
Bertolt Brecht German poet 




The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, September 8, 2010 page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Stanford and Keenan 
In Tuesday’s Observer, there was a photo of Stanford Hall after having been decked out in new windows along with its twin, Keenan. In the cap­tion, it read that these two dorms received the win­dow makeover as a part of a renovation that includ­ed some rearrangement of rooms and painting. In considering future renovations to dorms, and in particular Stanford and Keenan, I would hope that the University looks to the Vitruvian ideals that are at the heart of our Architecture School: strength, utility and beauty. What we have are a couple of dorms which I believe were meant to be temporary dorms and thus not designed and built to last. They are not sustainable. They are not attractive, do not fit in with the surrounding campus (St. Liams, Zahm, Cavanaugh etc.) and yet they are need of renovation. Let me propose that before the University spends any more money on renovations to campus buildings, it first look to design princi­ples that include both exterior and interior renova­tion and unity. A dorm should be easily navigable, sturdy and pleasing on the eyes. I take new win­dows to be a sign that perhaps we are going in the right direction, but what good is putting “new wine” in “old wineskins”? As a sophomore architec­ture student, I am learning all about composition of a building and design principles (Thanks, Profs. Hoyt, Salden and Buccelato). The composition of a building is the synthesis and ordering of parts to form a unified whole. I hope that we can continue in our path towards this in our campus buildings, even in renovations. I am not advocating that we tear down the dorms (not yet, anyway, knowing how much waste comes out of demolitions), but rather I wish that we solve the problem of making them better dorms since we’re spending money on renovating them anyway. I understand that many students have attachments to these dorms, and so I would hope that using the architectural resources that the University has, we could come up with a solution. 
Nathaniel Gotcher 
sophomore Morrissey Hall Sept. 7 

Thanks Career Center 
Hope everyone has a great time at the Career Fair! Unfortunately FTT and fine arts majors like myself will be on our own in trying to find jobs. Thanks Career Center! 
Michael Burke 
senior off campus Sept. 7 

Don’t waste paper. 
Submit a Letter to the Editor at 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 

UWIRE 
Top 4 things not to do on a first date 

Anyone is willing to dish out advice about what to do on a first date. Dress nice, smile a lot. But in the make or break world of dating, it’s the “don’ts” that really matter. 
It’s the creepy, crazy and weird things people do on a first date that ultimately decide whether or not they’ll get a second shot. One minor mishap, and your date will be Kentucky texting “rescue me” under the 
Kernel Staff 
table. 

To land yourself a second date, Kentucky keep these four major “don’ts” in Kernel mind. 
1. Don’t come off too strong. 
This can be taken a few different ways. For guys, com­ing off too strong usually consists of boasting about sexu­al expertise, which really freaks girls out. Alluding to going back to your place the entire date really only has the girl checking her drink for roofies. 
For women, coming off too strong is the constant men­tion of how you’re looking for something “serious.” It’s fine to let a guy know what you want later on, but talk­ing about your desperate search for true love on the first date only makes you look like a contestant on “The Bachelor.” 
2. Don’t talk too much or too little. 
Everyone knows that first dates can be awkward, and uncomfortable silence makes them even worse. Easy topics to discuss like pop culture or your interests help to keep conversation flowing and help avoid the dreaded “cricket, cricket.” 
Rambling on and on about yourself doesn’t make for a good first date, either. Launching into a soliloquy gives the impression you’re narcissistic and disinterested in the other person. Instead, it should be an equal balance of listening and sharing. 
3. Don’t show up late or cancel at the last minute. 
This isn’t a nail appointment. You can’t just reschedule when you feel like it. If you have committed to going on a date, make sure you follow through. It’s painful to the other person to be stood up, and it will ruin any chance of getting a second date. 
Also, showing up on time is important. If you are meeting someone you don’t want to make them wait alone — it starts the date off on the wrong foot. 
4. Don’t bring up heavy topics. 
It’s a first date, not a therapy session. So unless you’re out with Dr. Drew, now is not the time to bring up your eating disorder or your parents’ divorce. When first get­ting to know someone, you don’t want to reveal every skeleton in your closet. 
This also includes talking about exes. It’s a topic that brings negative energy to a conversation and suggests you’re still hung up on the past. It’s an unavoidable topic at times, so just make positive remarks or joke about it instead of diving into a soap opera about past relation­ships. 
While going on a first date is always stressful, knowing what to avoid can ease anxiety. You should just relax and be yourself, and hopefully a second date will come naturally. 
This column first appeared in the Sept. 6 edition of The Kentucky Kernel, the daily publication serving the University of Kentucky. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

UWIRE 
College students should sleep more 
The easy part is over. We’re past the first week of school, with its easy assignments, barely existent home­work and elementary lectures. 
Now comes the serious stuff. 
Essays, group projects, presentations, labs and other hellacious assignments are start­ing to pour in, filling up the gaps 
Casey Goodwin 

between class, work, socializing, and sleep. As work piles up, stu-
The Daily 

dents start skipping classes, call-
Cougar

ing in sick to work, and even canceling outings with friends. Worst of all, they stay up late and cut into their own sleep schedule. 
Let’s face it, unless you’re taking 12 credits, living on campus, and not even pretending to have a job, the time management gets tricky as the semester wears on. Sometimes figuring out a way to get everything done on time feels like juggling chainsaws: a wrong move would be far from pretty. 
That does little to stop students from procrastinating classwork for as long as they can, though. Instead of doing homework on the weekend (when most students actually have time to breathe) and then having time to sleep and socialize during the school week, many stu­dents chose to do the opposite. Partying all weekend and then stressing out Sunday night is never a good idea. In fact, it’s often downright stupid. If you don’t bal­ance your time intelligently, you’ll be miserable — and exhausted — all week. 
Staying up until the early hours of the morning and then sleeping a couple hours and loading up on coffee and energy drinks is one of the most obvious ways to finish all the homework and studying that needs to get done. It allows you to put things off until the very last minute and still get your work done. 
There seems to be some strong logic in all-nighter type procrastination. After all, there are only 24 hours in a day; there is no real reason to waste more than a couple of those on unproductive oblivion. 
The only problem is that going without sleep is one of those things that is easier said than done. The human body needs periods of rest to operate correctly; sleeping allows us to recharge and face life more effectively. Some people can get by with only a few hours of sleep, but the rest of us need at least seven to eight hours to function normally. Sure, coffee and energy drinks can make us feel more energized, but their effect is only temporary. 
In fact, studies have shown that people who rely on coffee as part of their morning routine are no more alert than their non-coffee drinking peers. Caffeine only helps make people feel more awake when used occa­sionally; after a while, individuals build up tolerances and need caffeine to be as alert as those who don’t need caffeine at all. 
Pulling all-nighters or even just staying up until five in the morning to get homework and studying done is extremely tempting, but rarely a good idea. Once or twice a year is feasible, but any more than that and you’re setting yourself up for an absolutely miserable semester. If you’re tired, it is often a better idea to go to bed on time and then wake up early to finish the neces­sary homework when you’re rested then it is to attempt to write a paper at 4 a.m. while holding at steaming mug of coffee. 
The key to success in college is time management. Figure out your priorities and then balance them. Students need to do class work, yes, but we also need to have time to relax, sleep, and simply socialize with friends in order to be energized and perform well in class. If you have to stay up late, though, it’s important to catch up on the missed sleep before too much time passes. There’s nothing wrong with going to bed before midnight if you’re tired, and there’s nothing wrong with sleeping in past noon if that’s what you have to do. The important thing is students shouldn’t deny themselves the sleep they need to perform well in class. 
This column first appeared in the Sept. 1 edition of The Daily Cougar, the daily publication serving the University of Houston. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Wednesday, September 8, 2010 

MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Wednesday, September 8, 2010 page 9 

Thriller mastermind M. Night Shyamalan is the man behind the idea for Universal Studios’ new horror flick, “Devil.” However, unlike “The Lady in the Water” and “The Village” 
Ankur Chawla 
this movie actu­ally looks like it could be good. 

Scene W riter 
“Devil” is a return to Shyamalan’s psychological horror roots, a genre he once excelled at in his breakout film “The Sixth Sense.” 
While this may still be considered Shyamalan’s movie, he took a back seat and let other people write, pro­duce and direct. After all, he only recently finished up doing all three for “The Last Airbender,” and that didn’t turn out so well for him. 
“Devil” follows a group of people who are trapped in an elevator only to real­ize the Devil is among them. Before judging the concept, watch the trailer and you will understand some of the excitement about this movie. The scenes actually look scary and intense, and with it coming from the mind of Shyamalan it will, without a doubt, have a crazy twist you would have to see to appreciate. 
The trailer begins by looking at an average, urban high-rise with people walking into their office. Employees have coincidental and arbitrary encounters with others, and a group of people gets locked in an elevator. Among them are the Devil, and the ultimate theme that these random encounters have a purpose. Hence the tagline of the movie, “Bad things hap­pen for a reason.” 
Chris Messina (“Julie & Julia”), Bojana Movakovic (“Seven Pounds”), Logan Marshall-Green (“Brooklyn’s Finest”) and Geoffrey Arend (“500 Days of Summer”) star in this super­natural suspense thriller. Directing this cast of relatively low-profile actors are Drew Dowdle and John Eric Dowdle, pairing up to direct their first film. 
Hopefully this redeems Shyamalan’s reputation, and reminds us of his bril­liant work in “The Sixth Sense” and “Unbreakable.” 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Ankur Chawla at achawla@nd.edu 
“Devil” debuts in theaters Sept. 17. Lookfor Ankur Chawla’s review on Sept. 20. 
Check out the trailer and other movie info at www.thenightchronicles.com/devil 
MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, September 8, 2010 
PGA 

Hoffman looks forward after tournament win 
Associated Press 
NORTON, Mass. — Charley Hoffman’s flowing blond locks attract plenty of attention. Now his golf game is getting noticed, too. 
The cheerful Californian grabbed the spotlight at the Deutsche Bank Championship on a picture-perfect, late-sum­mer day with some big rewards at stake. His victory Monday not only clinched one of the 70 spots in the BMW Championship starting Thursday, he moved up to No. 2 in the FedEx standings. 
Hoffman also boosted his chance, nonexistent before the tournament, for a spot on the 
U.S. Ryder Cup team but had to wait a day to find out if Corey Pavin made him one of the four captain’s picks. 
So where does his runaway, 5-stroke win after a final-round 62 rank in his career? 
“It’s a no-brainer,” said the 33-year-old Hoffman, whose only other victory was in 2007. “Best ever.” 
Maybe now when people see that long hair trailing from his cap they’ll recognize him for his skill rather than just his style. 
“I guess golfers tend to sort of all look alike and I try to stand out a little bit for my sponsors and myself to sort of showcase my personality,” Hoffman said. “Good golf always makes you stand out a little bit better.” 
He blasted in from a bunker. He holed birdie after birdie, 11 in all. He needed just 22 putts. And he left the rest of the field chasing a golfer whose playing partner sensed after three holes that it would be Hoffman’s day. 
It wasn’t Phil Mickelson’s. 
If he had finished fourth, Mickelson would have become No. 1 in the world for the first time in his career, knocking Tiger Woods from his usual perch. But Mickelson made triple bogey on the 10th hole and double bogey on the 17th. He came in 25th with a final-round 76. 
“I shot 1-under on the front (nine) and was going to try to make a move on the back, but it wouldn’t have mattered,” Mickelson said. “Charley played some great golf.” 
Woods was pretty good and stayed at No. 1 for the 274th straight week. 
He finished tied for 11th with a final-round 69, giving him three rounds in the 60s for the first time in a tournament this year. He was expected to be one of Pavin’s picks for the Ryder 
Cup,  scheduled  to  be  
announced Tuesday.  
“I  figured  something  out  

today” about his putting, Woods said. “Once I got my speed dialed in, I was hitting it, and I think I one-putted the last seven holes, which is a good thing.” 
Hoffman putted like a man hurrying to lift the winner’s tro­phy and finished at 22-under 262, matching the tournament record set by Vijay Singh in 2008. 
Starting the final round four strokes behind Jason Day, Hoffman had five birdies and two bogeys on the front nine. Then he really started rolling with six birdies and three pars on the back. The crowd cheered when he walked up the 18th fairway. It roared when he sank a 19-inch birdie putt to wrap up a spectacular final round. 
“To tell you the truth, I didn’t have any clue how many birdies I made,” Hoffman said. “I was just trying to keep making birdies. I knew Jason was play­ing all right.” 
Day shot a 71 and finished tied for second with Geoff Ogilvy (66) and Luke Donald (69). Ogilvy played with Hoffman and had an outstand­ing day, but by the 15th hole he knew he’d never overtake a player who missed the cut in his first 15 tournaments as a pro on the Nationwide Tour in 2000. 
“I had the best seat in the house to watch that,” Ogilvy said. “He hit great shots all day. He putted really well, and as soon as he got himself in trou­ble he’d go and hole a bunker shot or something like that. So it was a pretty class act and he never looked like doing any­thing but winning after about three holes.” 
Hoffman began the tourna­ment 59th in the FedEx stand­ings. His primary goal was to stay in the top 70. Now he’s No. 
2. After the third playoff tour­nament outside of Chicago this week, the field will be reduced to 30 for the tour championship in Atlanta two weeks later with a $10 million bonus on the line. 
He also gained entry into all four major tournaments after not getting into any this year. 

That includes his first Masters at Augusta National. 
Hoffman started his climb early with four straight birdies to catch up to Day. On the 11th hole, he thought he was in trou­ble with a 4-iron shot that appeared to be headed for a bunker short of the green. But it cleared that, went through rough and ended up 3 feet from the hole. Then on the 13th, his shot from the bunker found the cup for a birdie. 
US OPEN 

Federer wins at Open, will face Soderling in next round 
Nadal and Federer at recent I’ve been dreaming of playing Federer’s serve. It added up to a taste of how to beat me,” 
Associated Press 

French Opens. since I started playing tennis. a 7-4 win in the breaker, and Federer said. “It’s up to me to 
NEW YORK — Now, the He beat Federer at this year’s You know, playing at the big when he lost set point, Melzer clean up my game and put in a names opposite Roger French to end Fed’s string of 23 courts in the big tournaments. looked skyward and screamed good performance.” Federer’s in the bracket will straight Grand Slam semifinal It’s very fun.” in frustration. In the quarterfinal opposite start looking more familiar. appearances. Last year, So far, Federer has been “I wasn’t happy with my for-Federer-Soderling, No. 3 Novak 
Maybe uncomfortably so. Soderling notched a fourth-enjoying his stay at Flushing tune. Let’s put it that way,” Djokovic will play No. 17 Gael 
The five-time U.S. Open win-round victory over Nadal at Meadows, where he has won 44 Melzer said. Monfils. Djokovic dispatched ner grinded down No. 13 Roland Garros that, coinciden-of his last 45 matches — the When they shook hands at No. 19 Mardy Fish 6-3, 6-4, 6-1 Jurgen Melzer, 6-3, 7-6 (4), 6-3, tally, simplified Federer’s path only loss coming to del Potro in the end, Federer apologized to to leave only one American for yet another straight-set vic-to finally complete the career last year’s final. The second set him about the second-set man in the draw, No. 20 Sam tory at Flushing Meadows on Grand Slam. With Nadal out of of the Melzer match offered tiebreaker. Querrey. Monday night. Next up — a the way, Federer’s opponent in some perspective into how diffi-“I think I deserved the second Querrey plays No. 25 meeting with one of the few last year’s French final: cult it can be to break through set,” Melzer said. “You couldn’t Stanislas Wawrinka on Tuesday players who has enjoyed suc-Soderling. against the player with a be more lucky in a tiebreaker in a quarter of the draw that cess against both Federer and The Swede, ranked a career-record 16 major titles. than he was in this tiebreaker.” doesn’t have a top-10 seed left. Rafael Nadal on the sport’s high fifth at this year’s U.S. After exchanging early Federer’s next matchup is “I think the world of Sam’s biggest stages. Open, is one of only two players breaks, the players held serve against Soderling, whose victo-game,” Fish said. “I really think 
That would be No. 5 Robin (Juan Martin del Potro is the to play it out to a tiebreaker. ry over Federer at the French he’s got a lot of upside. If he Soderling, who defeated No. 21 other) with Grand Slam victo-It was there that Federer, this year was the first in 13 were a stock, I’d buy big time.” Albert Montanes 4-6, 6-3, 6-2, ries over both of the world’s top who doesn’t need any extra meetings. The match came In the featured women’s 6-3 to reach the U.S. Open two players. help, twice hit balls that drib-after a rainstorm, when the red match Monday, No. 1 Caroline quarterfinals for the second “I think it’s always a very nice bled off the net cord and over clay at Roland Garros was Wozniacki defeated No. 14 straight year. feeling to play against the for winners. He also won a moist and slow. Still, Federer Maria Sharapova 6-3, 6-4 in a 
The runs at the U.S. Open are world’s best,” Soderling said. point after a replay that came knows, a win is a win. contest that saw Sharapova nice, but where Soderling has “It’s matches like that that you when a bad line call nullified “I expect it to be really tough, commit 36 unforced errors to really made his name is against train for. It’s matches like that Melzer’s solid return of especially now that he’s gotten only 10 from Wozniacki. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

with delightful children (reading sto-If you or someone you care about Apartments for Rent Near Airport, You died on a Saturday morning. ries, playing games, building with has been sexually assaulted, we on Busline 1 Bdr. $600 and 2 Bdr. And I had you placed here under
WANTED blocks) and is an excellent addition PERSONAL can help. For more information, visit $725 All Util. Included Call Mike our tree. And I had that house of to your resume. Volunteers are Notre Dame’s website. 574-250-0191 your father's bulldozed to the needed during any of the following UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? http://csap.nd.edu. ——————————————— ground. Momma always said dyin' 
The Early Childhood Development hours: 8:00 am - 1:30 pm & amp; Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has ——————————————— was a part of life. I sure wish it was-Center at Notre Dame (ECDC-ND) 2:30 - 5:30 pm. A minimum of 2 many resources in place to assist n't. Little Forrest, he's doing just is seeking college students to vol-hours per week, on the same day you. If you or someone you love LOST AND FOUND fine. About to start school again unteer in the preschool and kinder-each week, is required. A brief ori-needs confidential support or assis-FOR RENT soon. I make his breakfast, lunch, garten classrooms. ECDC-ND is entation is provided. tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at Lost Friday, and dinner every day. I make sure located on the ND campus on Bulla If you are interested in volunteering 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. BED&BREAKFAST Football week-9/3, black Casio camera in blue belt he combs his hair and brushes his Road, across from O’Hara Grace at ECDC-ND, call 631-3344 or ends for ND parents. clip carry case 574-292-1572. teeth every day. Teaching him how Residences at the corner of Leahy email Nikki at For more information, visit ND’s ——————————————— to play ping-pong. He's really good. and Bulla. Volunteering at ECDC is nzavadaec@yahoo.com to sched-website at http://pregnancysup-Two night minimum. 10 min from Welcome Cory Bernard to the We fish a lot. And every night, we a wonderful opportunity to interact ule your volunteer time. port@nd.edu. campus. 272-5640. Observer Sports Department. read a book. He's so smart, Jenny. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Wednesday, September 8, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
NFL 

Ireland in charge in Miami 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — Bill Parcells is putting his protege in charge. 
The Miami Dolphins’ football czar has given control of the team to general manager Jeff Ireland but will retain a role as a daily consultant. The Dolphins announced the move in a three-sentence statement Tuesday, five days before the start of the season. 
The change was part of a long-range plan when the Parcells regime took over at the end of the 2007 season, the statement said. 
“This was the intent of the structure put in place in the past,” the Dolphins said. Ireland will assume full con­trol over all aspects regarding the team and support staff. 
Parcells joined the Dolphins in December 2007 as executive vice president of football oper­ations, then hired Ireland two weeks later. They were also together with the Dallas Cowboys. 
The 69-year-old Parcells can leave Miami at any time and collect the balance of the $12 million due him under a four-year contract that expires after the 2011 season. 
He was hired by Wayne Huizenga as the Dolphins stag­gered to the end of a 1-15 sea­son in 2007. In the Parcells regime’s first year in 2008, Miami made a great leap for­ward to 11-6 and a playoff berth under first-year NFL coach Tony Sparano, who also came from the Cowboys. 
Last season the Dolphins regressed to 7-9, extending to nine years their drought with­out a postseason victory. 
During the past offseason, the team acquired Pro Bowl receiver Brandon Marshall, hired Mike Nolan as defensive coordinator and revamped the defense. The front office has continued to be busy in recent days, acquiring six players since Saturday, and the Dolphins have 20 players with two years’ experience or less. 


Owner Stephen Ross has said he expects the Dolphins to play in the Super Bowl this season, while most prognosticators expect a record around .500. 
The news that Parcells was stepping back caught line­backer Channing Crowder by surprise. 
“He’s just a great guy to have on your side,” Crowder said. “But he brought a bunch of great people in, too. Tony is an 
amazing  coach,  and  Jeff  
Ireland  knows  what  he’s  
doing.”  

There was no comment from the secretive organization about the change in hierarchy beyond the statement. The team was off Tuesday, and Parcells rarely does inter­views. 
“The clock’s ticking for guys like me,” he said in 2008, shortly before his first season with Miami. “You know you can’t do it forever.” 
Ross, who completed his purchase of the franchise from Huizenga in January 2009, didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment. 
Ireland rarely talks to the media but offered occasional glimpses into the how the regime worked under Parcells. For example, Parcells was very much involved in prepa­rations for the most recent draft, Ireland said in April. 
“It’s constant,” Ireland says. “It never stops. Bill and I have grinded through every single player two or three times.” 
There have been occasional hints that Parcells had created an atmosphere allowing him to step back. One clue came when Sparano spoke two weeks ago of Dan Henning, the Dolphins’ third-year offensive coordinator. 
“Our relationship has really grown tremendously,” Sparano said. “Early on in the process he was a Bill guy. And now I would feel safe to say he’s a Tony guy.” 
BASKETBALL 
Russian coach to face 
U.S. at championships 
Associated Press 
ISTANBUL — David Blatt was a teenager in Massachusetts in 1972, and remembers crying after the Soviet Union’s controversial victory over the United States for the Olympic gold medal. 
Blatt now thinks the Americans were wrong, that they weren’t cheated. 
That’s not all that’s changed for Blatt when it comes to basketball and his homeland. 
The Kentucky native now coaches Russia, which will meet the U.S. on Thursday for a spot in the semifinals of the world championship. 
“It’s kind of mind boggling for me,” Blatt said. “I hope my guys are less confused and they’ll get out there and play. I just don’t want to mess it up too bad.” 
Russia advanced to the quarterfinals with a superb defensive performance in a 78-56 victory over New Zealand on Monday. Hours earlier at the Sinan Erdem Dome, the Americans crushed Angola 121-66 in their best effort of the tour­nament. 
The U.S. made 18 3-point­ers and had 30 assists against just five turnovers. 
“If we play like that, I don’t think really anybody could beat us,” guard Eric Gordon said. 
Blatt played at Princeton, and its offensive principles show in Russia’s deliberate pace. But Blatt doesn’t sound convinced that anything can be done to slow the U.S. speedsters. 
“We obviously lack certain things that they’re going to attack and they’re going to try to take advantage of, and all things considered I’d rather be in Philadelphia right now,” Blatt said. “I really don’t want to play them, but we’re going to, and for my guys it’s a great, fun thing, and I know my guys will compete. I just don’t know that we have enough to play against that group.” 


The game comes 38 years to the day after the Soviet Union’s 51-50 victory in the gold-medal game in Munich. The Americans took a one-point lead on Doug Collins’ free throws with 3 seconds left, and seemed to have won when the Soviets inbounded and didn’t score. 
But the Soviets claimed they’d called timeout, and an official had whistled for play to stop when he saw a distur­bance near the scorer’s table. Time was put back on the clock, and again the Americans celebrated as the Soviets failed to score after inbounding. 
More confusion followed because the clock was still being reset when the ball was put in play. Given a third chance when FIBA’s secre­tary general ordered the final 3 seconds replayed, the Soviets won when Aleksander Belov caught a long pass over two U.S. play­ers and scored. 
Their 63-game Olympic winning streak snapped when basketball’s governing body denied their protest, the Americans voted unanimous­ly to refuse their silver medals, which remain locked away. 
“There’s a wonderful film about that, and I hate to say it as an American, but it looks like the Russians were right. The American team was not cheated,” Blatt said. “Funny things happened, but in reality it was fair.” 
Blatt had already become a successful coach throughout Europe when the Russian Basketball Federation hired him in 2006, the first for­eigner to coach the national team. Blatt led the Russians to the 2007 European cham­pionship in Madrid, where they upset reigning world champion Spain in the final. 
With Utah Jazz forward Andrei Kirilenko, Russia’s top player, and other veter­ans no longer playing, the Russians are a young team that relies on defense. They improved to 5-1 with the vic­tory over New Zealand, with Timofey Mozgov, a center who recently signed with the New York Knicks, scoring 16 points. 
Blatt is unsure if he will return as Russia’s coach, but said he hasn’t thought about what an upset of the Americans could do for his career. 
“My mind tends to wander to things that are somewhat realistic. I don’t know how realistic that is,” he said. 
“I would like to see us come play well, though. I don’t want to see us come out and just give in to that onslaught that they’re going to prepare for us, and it’s not going to be easy. We’ve just got to do a whole lot of things special to stay in the game. Give me a couple of days and I’ll see if I can figure that out, but I ain’t a magician.” 
Though Blatt makes the 
U.S. sound invincible, the other American coach in the game believes otherwise. 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, September 8, 2010 
NFL 

Revis swayed by visit from owner 
Associated Press 
FLORHAM PARK, N.J. — Darrelle Revis and Rex Ryan looked at each other, huddled in a conference room in Florida, and immediately knew they had the same game plan. 
The New York Jets ’ star cornerback wanted to get back on the football field. 
The brash and boisterous coach badly wanted him there. 
“He was smiling like he took a trip to Disney World,” Revis recalled Monday. “I was smiling back because this is like a home to me, the New York Jets. It was just good to see him and work something out when we were down there to try to get me back up here.” 
Revis signed a four-year deal Monday, ending a 36­day holdout that included some acrimonious moments between his agents and gen­eral manager Mike Tannenbaum. There were also plenty of doubts that the All -Pro cor ­nerback would play the deal was getting done, they brought me back up.” 
Added agent Jonathan Feinsod: “He told us that he was going to go coach his football team and he was sick and tired of us.” 
When cooler heads pre ­vailed a few hours later, Revis had finally agreed to a deal. 
“It was a long process,” he said. “It was rough on me. You know I’m a football play­er and I love to play the game and I’m happy it’s over with. I can go play football now.” 
Revis is expected to prac­tice Tuesday and be ready to play in the season opener next Monday night at home against Baltimore. 
“I do think we may play Revis, I’m not sure,” Ryan quipped. “I think he might need to practice for several weeks before we play him, but don’t be shocked if he’s out there. 
“In other words, he’s defi­nitely playing.” 
The Jets and Revis’ agents 
declined to 
announce 
financial terms 

this season. Perhaps the m ost c rucia l  “It was a long process. It was rough on me.  of the deal, but it is reportedly w o r t h a t l e a s t  
m o m e n t  o f  You know I’m a  $ 4 6  m i l l i o n ,  
t h e n e g o t i a -t i o n s c a m e S a t u r d a y , w h e n b o t h  football player and I love to play the game and I’m happy it’s over  i n c l u d i n g $ 3 2 million guaran­teed. Revis said a l l a l o n g h e  
Ry a n owner  a n d Woody  with.”  w a n t e d t o b e the highest-paid  
Johnson flew t o R e v i s ’  Darrelle Revis  p l a y e r a t h i s position, some- 
h o m e  i n  Jets cornerback  t h i n g  F e i n s o d  

South Florida to meet with him, his mother Diana Gilbert and uncle and former NFL player Sean Gilbert to try to solve the contract impasse. 
“I think that was a break­through, them coming down because I haven’t seen them,” Revis said. “It was talks with my agents and Tannenbaum most of the time. I just thought when they both came down, it was a big step in this whole situa­tion.” 
Both Ryan and Johnson said the decision to visit Revis was a group idea, although agent Neil Schwartz said the coach reached out to them Friday night about set­ting it up. 
“First off, I like to travel,” a smiling Ryan said of how the trip came about. “That was probably what one of the rea­sons was. We don’t do things exactly by the books of other teams, but we do it our way. It’s the New York Jet way.” 
Both the Jets and Revis’ agents spoke all weekend until they reached an agree­ment around 11 p.m. Sunday. 
That was after Ryan lost his cool, a moment that’s sure to be featured on the next episode of “Hard Knocks” on HBO. During a conference call between the Jets and Revis’ agents, Ryan got frus­trated at the sides not being able to seal the deal. 
“I stormed out of there and was ripping everybody on both sides,” he said. “After I threw my little tantrum and said the Jets cornerback would be — 
without releasing terms. 
“The numbers would reflect in our minds that he’s being paid as the highest-paid cor­nerback,” Feinsod said. 
After months of waiting and wondering about his future, Revis was happy to be back on the field after flying up from Florida in the morning. 
“This experience humbled me so much just because I love to play football,” Revis said. “At one point, it was something that was taken away, that I love to do. I’ve never had anything taken away from me that I love to do. So this was a point in my life where it was serious.” 
As he walked toward his teammates on the practice field, a strange feeling came over him. 
“I had butterflies,” Revis said. “I didn’t know how my teammates were going to accept me because I haven’t been here for a month.” 
For a guy who routinely shuts down opponents’ best wide receivers, the acknowl­edgment of insecurity was stunning. After some loud, welcoming cheers — includ­ing a “Rudy ” clap — and good-natured ribbing, Revis knew he was finally back home. 
“This process, I don’t wish it on anybody,” Revis said. “I never thought it was going to turn out to be like this, to get 
a  l i t t l e  b i t  c r a z y.  B u t  i t ’s  
s o m e t h i n g  I  h a d  t o  g o  
through.”  



Wednesday, September 8, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
Belles 
continued from page 16 
ing up some soft goals, ones I think we can avoid.” 
The Belles will face a challenging opponent in Illinois Wesleyan today. Reversing the trend they’ve shown early in the season will be difficult against the 3-0 Titans, whose program has repeatedly been ranked in the top -25 in recent years. 
But Joyce said he thinks the team is 
sion and atti ­tude on the field has greatly improved.” 
Despite solid play from junior goalie Kristen Nelson, a new addition to the team this season, the Belles must also shore up a defense that has given up a conference -high eleven goals, he said Joyce said he has a more developed game plan in place though it has yet to be tested in a game. 

“We’ll look to limit our mistakes, especially in the back,” he said, “If we can keep the score-line close we’ll give ourselves a shot at the win.” 
Saint Mary’s will contin­ue to look to Nelson in goal and veteran players sopho­more Ashley Morfin and senior Corissa Hart to help along a talented group of freshmen. Defender Anna Stollhans and midfielder 
Ellie Jacques 
“If we can keep the
close to where it needs to be. score-line close we’ll 
“We ’ve had give ourselves a shot some great 
at the win.” 
scoring oppor­tunities,” Joyce said. Mike Joyce “Our posses -Belles coach 
are two such players. Each has had strong performanc­es so far this year and will be looked at to step up even more if the Belles are to advance in the MIAA, which Joyce feels they are in posi­tion to do. “I have a 

lot of confidence in the players who ’ve had the bulk of the minutes so far,” Joyce said. “They just need time to grow and develop.” 
The Belles will face the No. 15 Titans at 5 p.m. today at Saint Mary’s. 
Contact Bobby Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 
PGA 
Tiger chosen for Ryder Cup 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Tiger Woods was a no-brainer as a cap­tain’s pick for the Ryder Cup. 
Rickie Fowler required a little more than deep thought. 
“It just came down to feel­ings,” captain Corey Pavin said. “I had a gut feeling about Rickie.” 
Fowler, the 21 -year-old mop top who only turned pro 11 months ago, made history Tuesday as the first PGA Tour rookie on the American team and the first captain’s pick to have never won on tour. 
He was the only big mys­tery when Pavin announced his four picks at the New York Stock Exchange. Pavin also chose a pair of major champions, Stewart Cink and Zach Johnson, both of whom have played the Ryder Cup on the road. 
The matches will be held Oct. 1-3 at Celtic Manor in Wales. 
Fowler will be the youngest American to play in the Ryder Cup since Woods in 1997, but only the second-youngest player at Celtic Manor. Rory McIlroy, the 21­year-old from Northern Ireland, earned his way onto the European team. 
“I can bring a little bit of color to the team, I can bring some youth to the team and hopefully, get the guys pumped up a little bit, ” Fowler said. “But as I said, we’re all going over there to win, so we’re all going to be getting each other pumped and focusing on our main goal, bringing home the cup.” 
The Americans won two years ago in Kentucky, and will try to win for the first time overseas since 1993 at The Belfry. 
This will be the sixth Ryder Cup team for Woods, but the first in which he needed to be picked. Woods had fin­ished first in the standings every time, including in 2008 when he spent the second half of the year recovering from knee surgery. 
“It’s great to be a part of this team,” Woods said. “I’m honored to be selected ... and looking forward to going back and having a great time with the team and hopefully, bring the Cup back.” 
The eight Americans who qualified after the PGA Championship were Phil Mickelson, Hunter Mahan, Steve Stricker, Jim Furyk, Matt Kuchar, Bubba Watson, Dustin Johnson and Jeff Overton. 
European captain Colin Montgomerie said Pavin used his four picks “to good effect.” 
“Like my European team, the American side has an excellent blend of youthful talent alongside some sea­soned Ryder Cup campaign­ers, and I am delighted to see Tiger Woods amongst Corey’s selections,” he said. “The Ryder Cup is a better event with him in it.” 
Cink made his fifth consec­utive team — his third as a captain ’s pick — while Johnson is playing for the second time. 
The final selection — and Pavin’s most difficult — went to Fowler, the first PGA Tour rookie to make the U.S. team. While the former Oklahoma State star has three runner-up finishes a pro, he still hasn’t won, and has not had a top 10 for three months. 


page 14 The Observer u SPORTS Wednesday, September 8, 2010 
Neal 
continued from page 16 
had speed at every position. “Whether it’s Kerry Neal or any of the other 10 players that are on the field, if you’re somebody that can’t react and can ’t play fast, then you struggle playing on the field for us,” Kelly said. 
Kelly, though, also pointed to potential areas of improvement for the Irish. 
“We ’re going to have to execute better, ” he said. “Clearly execution is some­thing that we’re concerned about. We have to execute 
on a better level, and we have to be assignment-cor­rect.” 
More assign­ment football will likely mean fewer looked at rivalry games just like any others. 
“I’ve never prepared foot­ball teams in a manner that we focus on a particular rivalry put all the eggs in one basket,” he said. “I try to keep a steady enthusiastic approach to every game.” 
Notes: 
u Kelly said that linebackers Prince Shembo and Darius Fleming, who left Saturday’s game with cramps were “fine.” Junior safety Jamoris Slaughter suffered an ankle injury against Purdue, and Kelly said the walking boot he’d been in since the injury would be removed Tuesday. 
“I’m not ready to say he’s going to be 100 percent for Saturday,” Kelly said. “But some of the signs point toward some ­
one who is 

blitzes on “Itry to keep a making good defense. Last steady enthusiastic progress.” year, Notre 
approach to every 
Dame blitzed u Kelly said the 
gam e.” 
the Wolverines Irish could heavily, often wear green jer­leaving the Brian Kelly seys when they defense face Army in 
Irish coach
exposed on several key plays. Kelly said that Michigan’s offensive style was not a good matchup for a blitz-heavy defense. 
“You wouldn’t think blitz­ing would be the first call of duty when you play a team like this,” he said. 
Despite the fact that fans on both sides may be more pumped up for Saturday’s game, Kelly said that he Yankee Stadium this November because “ of the subway alums 
and what the green repre­sents relative to our con ­stituency, if you will, on the East Coast.” 
He added, though, that he preferred the blue jerseys for games in Notre Dame Stadium. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
unable to grab a victory. With or without Brovsky, one of the team’s top goal-continued from page 16 scoring threats, Clark is 
looking for a team -wide Players like [junior defend-scoring approach to lessen er] Aaron Maund and the load on his strikers. [junior midfielder] Chris “These [scoring] droughts 
Clark 
Sutton can take on that responsibili ­ty.” 
The Irish attack, led by B r o v s k y, scored eight goals in the team ’s three preseason scrimmages but failed to find the back of the net over the weekend 
happen some­times in soc ­cer. This weekend our “You don’tneed to be opp onents’ [scoring] was 
a senior to lead and 
very good, ” 
setan exam ple.” 
Clark said. “Goalkeepers Bobby Clark and strikers are always on 
Irish coach 
edge, because if you make a mistake or fail to produce you are blamed. 
Conway 
continued from page 16 
branched out from solely being the golfer she was before. 
An internship with Ernst & Young’s Chicago office in the Business Advisory Program over the past summer has expanded her vision and personal goals beyond the golf course and past graduation, she said. 
“It was an eye -opening experience as it was my first time out of the golf But all 10 outfield players can score. We don’t want to be too reckless, but we look for anyone to score. Our center backs are often com-
world for a summer and provided me with a glimpse of the real world,” Conway said. 
The internship not only gave Conway a glimpse of the business lifestyle but it also made her return to campus and the golf course sweeter than ever before. Conway and the Irish will begin their fall season Sept. 25 -26 in East Lansing, Mich., to compete in Michigan State’s Mary Fossum Invitational. It will be Conway’s third consecu­tive trip to the tournament where the Irish have fin­ing forward. We want to share that responsibility.” 
As the team prepares to host the Mike Berticelli Memorial Tournament this weekend, Brovsky is steadi­ly rehabbing his injury and the team is optimistic that they will have his leadership and scoring ability back in the lineup soon. 
“He turned his ankle, and the therapists have been doing three rehab sessions a day with him,” Clark said. “The trainers feel like Jeb’s getting there, but we won’t evaluate him until Thursday. Hopefully he can be in the lineup on Friday, but we just don’t know.” 
With or without Brovsky, the Irish will look to record their first win of the season Friday at 7:30 p.m. against Drake at Alumni Stadium. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
against UCLA and Cal. Against Cal, the Irish creat­ed 28 shot opportunities to the Golden Bears’ 16, but despite the advantage, were ished in the top 10 each year. 
Although her senior sea­son has yet to begin, Conway already has her spring goals set. Like many athletes, she hopes to end her Irish career in the NCAA finals. If she makes it there, it would mark the first time Notre Dame has swung so far in program history. 
“I think are chances are pretty good,” Conway said confidently. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 


Wednesday, September 8, 2010 The Observer u TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 





THE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Wednesday, September 8, 2010 page 16 
FOOTBALL 
Kelly preparing team for fast, dangerous Michigan offense 
By SAM WERNER 
Sports Writer 
On the bright side for Irish fans, Tate Forcier won’t be lining up at quarterback for Michigan on Saturday. The bad news is that the Wolverines ’ new signal ­caller, Denard Robinson, could represent even more of an offensive threat. 
The challenge for Irish coach Brian Kelly this week is finding a scout team play­er that can best replicate Robinson’s unique blend of speed and athleticism, clearly a daunting task. 
“You know, I don’t know that you ever can prepare for Denard Robinson at the same speed that he plays,” Kelly said in his Tuesday press conference. “But we’ve got a couple of people that we think can help us out with that.” 
While the Irish faced a mobile quarterback in Purdue’s Robert Marve in the opener, Kelly noted that Robinson would be a differ­ent test, both skill-wise and schematically. 
“It’s a different team,” he said. “[Michigan’s] setting 

Speeding up 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer 

Senior outside linebacker Kerry Neal reaches for the ball after a Purdue fumble in Notre Dame’s Sept. 4 victory. Irish coach Brian Kelly stressed the need to “play fast” against Michigan Saturday. 
up the run obviously for game for the Boilermakers. Kelly criticized national [Robinson]. You’re running Henry ran a primarily read-media outlets for deeming quarterback iso. We didn’t option system and rushed the Irish defense too slow. have any of that with for 16 yards on three car-Specifically, Kelly pointed Marve.” ries. to senior outside linebacker 
Kelly did note that In order to counter the Kerry Neal as a player who Michigan’s scheme could be quick Michigan offense, “plays fast,” but said that it similar to the plays Purdue Kelly said his players need-was important that the Irish ran when backup quarter-ed to continue to “play fast.” back Rob Henry entered the After the Purdue game, see NEAL/page 14 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Conway prepared to tee off senior season 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
One of senior Katie Conway’s proudest moments isn ’t one listed on her resume. Naturally, it came on the golf course. Not in a college competition, howev­er, but on her home course when she finally beat her dad. 
“To this day, I’ve only beat him a handful of times, but the first time I did is still one of his proudest moments,” Conway said. 
Conway began playing golf at the age of 11, when her dad, who she deems “a golf pro, ” habitually brought her into work with him where they would spend the day on the course, playing and learn­ing with every stroke. 
As she grew in her skills and academics through middle and high school, Conway started the long college search, waiting to feel like she was in the right place. Visiting Notre Dame on a football weekend four years ago, Conway knew she had found that place. 
“The passion of the alum­ni and the spirit embodying the entire campus was exactly what I was looking for, and I knew I wanted to be part of the tradition, ” Conway said. 
Although Conway was drawn in by the spirit, cam­pus and tradition familiar to many who come to Notre Dame, she has made her time on campus her own story. Growing from an individual golfer in high school, Conway has devel­oped her game, goals and herself to become a part of a special team and University. 
“Before school, I was so focused on golf that I didn’t always see the bigger pic­ture, ” Conway said. “For my senior season, I want to leave the program poised for continued future suc ­cess.” 
Her time on campus has also opened doors and experiences Conway had never imagined as she 
see CONWAY/page 14 
MEN’S SOCCER 
Irish need ‘on-pitch’ leaders 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
When Notre Dame senior forward and Lowe’s Senior Class Award nominee Jeb Brovsky went down with an ankle sprain early in Sunday ’s scoreless draw against California, the sight was all too familiar for Irish coach Bobby Clark. 
With senior goalkeeper and team captain Phil Tuttle already sidelined with an injury, Brovsky ’s ankle sprain left the Irish (0-1-1) to fight without its two lead­ers as Brovsky watched the remainder of the match on crutches. The two seniors’ injuries also leave leader­ship gaps on the field, which Clark said the team will need while the two seniors recover. 
“We’ve got on-pitch lead­ers now, and you need that,” Clark said. “Jeb and Phil can provide that off -the ­field guidance, but during the game we’ll look to [for­ward] Steven Perry, [defend­er] Greg Klazura and [mid­fielder] Andrew Luttrell, who are all seniors.” 
Beyond his trio of healthy seniors, Clark stressed that the younger players on his squad will be counted on to step up as the season pro­gresses. 
“You don’t need to be a senior to lead and set an example, ” Clark said. “When I was a young lad coming up with Aberdeen 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles face Titans on home field 
By BOBBY GRAHAM 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s heads into today’s match against No. 15 Illinois Wesleyan with a 0-3 record. 
In each of this season ’s three games, the Belles have started off strong but failed to follow through in the second half. In the team’s opening game of the UW-Oshkosh Women ’s Soccer Invitational against Carthage Saturday, the Belles battled through a back-and-forth first half to go into the break scoreless on both sides. The second period was a different story as Carthage went on a three goal scoring stretch. 
The Belles gave a similar performance Sunday against the host Titans. After going into the half at 1-1, Saint Mary’s gave up three more goals and only scored once to end defeated 4-2. 
“We’re disappointed we didn’t keep the scores a lit­tle closer over the week ­end,” Belles coach Michael Joyce said. “We are still giv­
see BELLES/page 14 

FC in the Scottish Premier League, one of our best cap­tains was 21 years old when he led us to the Scottish Cup title. You don ’t need an armband to be a leader. 
see CLARK/page 14 








