the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Saving the best for last 
Fighting Irish win on Senior Day for the first time since 2007; students storm the field 

By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
With cold gusts, intermit­tent rain and a No. 14 ranked opponent in the house, you could forgive Notre Dame seniors for not expecting more than participating in the traditional marshmallow toss during halftime of their final home game as students. 
But then, the unthinkable happened. 
Notre Dame upset Utah 28­3, giving the Irish its first Senior Day win since 2007, and the senior class, along with much of the student body, stormed the field. 
Senior Nick Mancinelli said the amount of people com­bined with the excitement of running onto the field con­tributed to one particularly thrilling moment Saturday. 
“I remember trying to get on the field and at one point I was moving without either of my feet touching the ground,” he said. 
As a member of the Notre Dame class with the most football losses, Mancinelli had low expectations going into Saturday’s game. But he said the win was the perfect way to cap off his last experience as a member of the student section. 
“I went into the game very cynical,” he said. “I thought we would be slaughtered. This is the first time in my four years where we won as an underdog.” 
Mancinelli said ending his time as a member of the stu­dent section on such a high note makes up for many of the losses during the past four seasons. He also said the positive atmosphere of the 
see SENIORS/page 4 


Students continue peace tradition 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editor 
There is nothing “structurally special” about senior Bridget Flores’ off-campus house, but she knew she wanted to live there since her freshman year. 
It wasn’t the house itself, but all it represented — community, social justice, intellectual discus­sion — that attracted Flores to the house located just a few blocks from campus. 
Flores and three other stu­dents live in what is traditionally known as the “Peace House,” which is passed down each year to students who are interested in social justice and internation­al issues, and usually have a supplementary major or minor in peace studies. 
“Traditionally the house is not like any other college house — at least not any other traditional college house,” Flores said. 
Flores and her roommates try to bridge the gap between the classroom and students’ social lives, as well as the gap between the Notre Dame and South Bend communities. 
The most notable way they do this is by inviting professors into their home for Friday dinners 
see PEACE/page 5 



Apple Store opens in Mishawaka mall 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
For the many students who own MacBooks, iPhones and 
other Apple products, the brand -new Apple Store at University Park Mall will be a welcome addition to the South Bend area and Notre Dame community. 
The store, which opened at 10 a.m. Saturday, is only the second Apple Store to open in Indiana, joining the technolo­gy giant’s Indianapolis retail location. 
The new location will pro­vide students with a geo ­graphically closer option for purchasing and repairing Apple products than the Chicago location, which was previously the closest Apple Store to Notre Dame. 
Several students said they believed the arrival of an Apple Store in the South Bend area was inevitable, if late in coming. 
“I personally think it was long overdue,” sophomore Kristin Ruekert said. “I can’t 
see APPLE/page 5 
STUDENTS PROTEST UNIVERSITY’S INVESTMENTS 



INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC to host Hunger Banquet page 3  Fashion by Felicia page 10  Sorin, Howard win interhall championships page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, November 15, 2010 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Sara Mervosh Molly Sammon Sam Stryker Matthew Robison Nicole Toczauer Joe Wirth 
Graphics Scene 
Melissa Kaduck Maija Gustin 
Photo Viewpoint 
Sarah O’Connor Ren Brauweiler 

Q: What was your best birthday present ever? Rachel: Skydiving or my Q: What mythological creature unicycle. are you? 
Rachel: A unicorn, but not a girly 

Q: 
How many piercings or one. A black one. tattoos do you have? Rachel: Two tats and 16 Q: If you weren’t a person, piercings. I used to have 18, but I what would you be? let two close up. Rachel: A banana slug. 

Q: 
Would you survive an alien Q: What word in the dictionary attack? are you? Rachel: Heck yes, and then I Rachel: Cockchafer: a type of would make friends with all of scarab beetle. 



Rachel Chisausky 
them. 
sophomore McGlinn 

GRANT TOBIN/The Observer Students and visitors receive gifts from the newly installed Coke vending machine in LaFortune Friday afternoon. These included two-liter bottles, tickets to the Notre Dame vs. Utah game, hats and even a bouquet of roses. 
OFFBEAT 
Quiddith cup tourna -ilar to the sport created Troopers spokeswoman ment meets in New by J.K. Rowling in her Megan Peters tells the York City books. The matches call Fairbanks Daily News-
NEW YORK — More for chasers, beaters, Miner that the safe than 40 broomstick-rid-keepers, seekers and a measured only about a ing teams are competing snitch. Goals must be cubic foot and was rela­in the two-day Quidditch score and the snitch tively lightweight. world cup tournament in caught. She says there were no New York City. signs that anyone had 
Long a fictional fixture Thief enters home but broken into the house. of the Harry Potter nov-leaves behind money Troopers have identi­els and movies about FAIRBANKS, Alaska — fied a suspect. teenage wizards, the Alaska State Troopers They have not speci­sport features players say a thief removed a fied the neighborhood who fly on broomsticks. safe from a west where the safe was But in real life, the rules Fairbanks home but took taken. Peters says they have been adapted to a only a fraction of the don’t want to tell poten­ground game for “mug-cash inside. tial thieves where gles” — humans without The safe contained there ’s a safe with magical powers. $100,000 but was found $80,000 in it. 
Teams from around the in the back yard of the world that competed in a victim’s home with just Information compiled Manhattan park $20,000 missing. The from the Associated Saturday with rules sim-theft occurred Friday. Press. 
Know someone chill for Monday’s Icebreaker? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
The fair trade retailer Ten Thousand Villages returns to campus today from 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. This year’s sale of international handicrafts will take place in the Hesburgh Library Atrium throughout International Education Week (IEW). 
Notre Dame art and design students who traveled to Nepal over the summer will be selling fair trade handi­crafts they helped design. These fair trade items will be sold in the Dooley Room in La Fortune from 11:30 a.m. to 
1:30 p.m. today until Friday. 
A Brazilian Jiu Jitsu Demonstration will be held in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center today at 5:30 p.m . This event on self defense is free. 
At 6:30 p.m. today, the doc­umentary film “Streetball” wil be presented in the Geddes Halll Center for Social Concerns. This story following eight South African homeless men is free and will be followed by a question and answer session after the screening. 
Women’s basketball will be in the Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center at 7:00 p.m. tonight. Tickets for Notre Dame vs. Morehead State cost $5 to $8. 
Tomorrow , Dr. Raúl Plascencia Villanueva of Challenges to the Rule of Human Rights in Mexico dis­cuss civil and human rights obstacles in Room 1130 Eck Hall of Law at 5 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Today Tonight tuesday wednesday thursday friday 
LOCAL WEATHER 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
LOW 34 LOW 36 LOW 33 LOW 25 LOW 33 LOW 39 


Monday, November 15, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SaintMary’stohost Hunger Banquet 
By KRYSTINA HARCOURT 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary’s College Student Diversity Board (SDB) will host a Hunger Banquet sometime before Christmas break, but students can begin helping now. 
The event is meant to remind students that hunger is a major concern around the world, Kelly Reidenbach, vice president of SDB, said. 
On the day of the event, stu­dents are asked to donate a meal swipe — one meal at the College’s Noble Family Dining Hall — to an organization that provides food for the underprivileged and to participate in an experiment that helps demonstrate the global wage gaps between classes. 
Reidenbach said the entire process for participating in the event is very simple. 
“It is just like swiping for a meal in the dining hall except the money that would normally go to Sodexo will be donated to an organization that helps fight hunger,” she said. 
A table will be set up in the Student Center Atrium on the days prior to the event so stu­dents can sign up with their iden­tification number. 
After donating a meal, students are then encouraged to attend an exercise hosted by SDB instead of going to the dining hall to eat. 
Students will be divided into dif­ferent economic classes and each group will be served dinner according to their class, Reidenbach said. 
A slide show will be shown and a few professors will give short talks on topics dealing with the event. 
“The Hunger Banquet is a great way to provide an opportunity for open discussion as well as an opportunity to educate students and community members and bring awareness of an issue that affects millions of individuals worldwide,” Reidenbach said. “Many people do not realize that hunger is not only a world issue, but also an issue in the United States and even the South Bend community.” 
The Board strives to fulfill one of its main purposes through the event — to provide opportunities for discussion on issues relat[ed] to various socio-economic back­grounds among other topics of diversity, according to Reidenbach. 
The Board has been working with Oxfam International, an international relief and develop­ment organization that works with colleges to create solutions to poverty, hunger and injustice. The Board received supplies and ideas from the organization to make the event possible. 
Contact Krystina Harcourt at kharco01@saintmarys.edu 
Students work with Nepali artisans 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Eleven years ago, industrial design professor Ann-Marie Conrado decided to leave the cor­porate grind and travel the world. 
“I started out in St. Petersburg and a year later I ended up in Hong Kong,” Conrado said. 
The country that stuck with her the most, however, was Nepal. After Conrado’s trip around the world, she returned to Nepal to teach English for six months. 
“After teaching [in Nepal], I was frustrated by the education system. Students there are naturally resourceful and their education beats it out of them,” Conrado said. 
Conrado decided she needed to do more than just teach English and in 2004, she started Hope Initiative, a non-profit organization dedicated to educational reform in Nepal. 
So far, Hope Initiative has opened a computer technology center, where Nepali people can teach themselves how to operate and use computer technology. Hope Initiative also operates an orphan­age where 10 children currently live. 
Since Conrado joined the design faculty at Notre Dame, she brought her passion for Nepal to the University and shared it with her students. 
“I wanted a way to combine the values we cherish in the classroom and bring them into the field,” Conrado said. 
With that vision, Conrado decid­ed to combine the work of her charity with her passion for design. 
Now, every summer, a group of Notre Dame students spend 10 weeks working with local designers and becoming immersed in Nepal’s culture. 
Senior Andrew McBride traveled to Nepal last summer and hopes to return again. 
“It was awesome,” McBride said. “The coolest part for me was there, they all refer to each other as brother and sister. Everyone in the community is like a member of an extended family.” 
The students and Conrado spend their time in Nepal helping local artisans work on designing new fair trade products that they can sell. 
In Kathmandu, the capital of Nepal, local low-income artisans work to create hand-crafted goods that are indigenous to the region. 
The artisans, 89 percent of which are women, work for the Association for Craft Producers, which is in charge of quality con-trol. They produce all the raw materials and finish the products to give them uniformity, Conrado said. 

“It brings grassroots producers to the global market,” Conrado said. 
The Notre Dame students use their design background to work with local artisans to develop new products. They can design, proto­type and produce a product in one location. 
“I want to change the students prospective,” Conrado said. “It’s not about changing the world of design, but about changing the design of the world.” 
Hope Initiative will host a sale this week in the LaFortune Student Center from 11:30 a.m. to 1:30 
p.m. every day. Students designed many of the products being sold and all the proceeds will go toward ongoing projects in Nepal. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, November 15, 2010 
Seniors 
continued from page 1 
game contrasted to previous games this year. 
“There was something noticeably different about 

this game,” Mancinelli said. The entire student body was excit­ed. It reminded me of what Notre Dame football is about. You become jaded after loss after loss. It became fun again.” 
everything, it was a great time. Rushing the field was 
one of the coolest things I have done. 
“Even though we were the losing-est class during our four years, we ral­lied and won.” 
McCabe said the mood of the 

“There didn’t seem to be any downtime. Everyone seemed to be actively cheering during the game.” 
Ethan Bailey sophomore 
Senior Kaitie McCabe also said the combination of a final win and rushing the field made up for a lot of the difficulties the class experi­enced as Fighting Irish fans. 
“I think it was probably the most perfect way we could have ended our four years of Notre Dame football,” she said. “Despite the rain and 

“When the Alma Mater came on, it was a refective moment. Everyone stopped amidst the chaos.” 
Kaitie McCabe senior 
student section felt much more upbeat for their Senior Day than it had for other games this season, contribut­ing to the excitement of the day. 
“Especially during this sea­son, we were really upset. But for this game everyone was talking about how they bled for this team, ” she ing for the seniors too. It was nice to see them get excited for a game and end their four years like that.” 
Senior Anna Katter said the halftime marshmallow toss, a Senior Day tradition, was a seemingly light -hearted moment that conveyed the 
bond the cam­pus of Notre Dame possess­es. 
“It was really hilarious to tape [the marshmallows] to your body. It was fun to whip them out at halftime,” she said. “They were disgust ­
ing, but it was great to see a sea of white. It was yet another example of unity and family of our senior class.” 
Katter said rushing the field also reminded her of the close-knit nature of her class. 
“It was really cool to just run into people. There was just a sense that everyone was thrilled that we won and 
rush was equally as exhila­rating because members of the band are used to select number of students being on the turf after games. 
“It was really awesome to see everyone trying to climb over from the student sec­tion,” he said. “It was funny having friends come up to me 
after the game 
on the field. 
were seniors,” she said. “It was great to see people you did-n’t normally associate with. It was just a sense of fun. We were all there bonded and united on the field.” 
Bailey said being on the field before the 



said. “We were fighting for the w i n . I t w a s almost as if we  “Not many seniors can say the best game was the last  That has never h a p p e n e d before.” M c C a b e s a i d  
hadn’t lost a lot o f t h e g a m e s we did this sea- game of their four years.”  d e s p i t e t h e e x c i t e m e n t o f b e i n g o n t h e  
son.”  f i e l d ,  t h e  
S o p h o m o r e  Nick Mancinelli  throngs of stu- 
Ethan Bailey,  a  senior  dents still had  

member of the Notre Dame Band, said he could hear the crowd’s enthusiasm over the band’s music. 
“During the game there did-n’t seem to be downtime,” he said. “Everyone seemed to be actively cheering during the game.” 
Bailey said ending the sea­son on such a high note was not only great for the Notre Dame student body, but espe­cially the seniors. 
“You didn’t want to end the season on a bad note. The last home game leaves an impression for the rest of the year,” he said. “It was excit­respect for the 
sentimentality of the experience. 
“Everyone was really excit­ed to rush the field, but when the Alma Mater came on, it was a reflective moment,” she said. “Everyone stopped amidst the chaos.” 
Now, in addition to being the losing-est class in history, seniors can add another notch to their belt: 
“Not many seniors can say the best game was the last game of their four years,” Mancinelli said. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 


Monday, November 15, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 

Ruekert said the off-campus location of the Apple Store 
Apple 
may hinder some students continued from page 1 from bringing their comput­
ers there for repairs. 
believe the closest one before “Students that don’t have 
was in Chicago.” cars probably won’t bring 
Sophomore Meredith Angell their computers on the bus expressed similar views on with them to the mall,” the store’s recent opening Ruekert said. “I’m guessing a and the services it will be lot of students will still take able to offer to Notre Dame their Apple computers to OIT students. if they have problems.” 
“I’m surprised there wasn’t Sophomore Mac owner 
already an Apple Store Tylor Gauger said he thought 
around here because so many OIT’s Apple repair customer 
students have Apple comput-numbers would not change 
ers,” Angell, a Mac owner, much as a result of the new 
said. “I’m excited because I’ll store opening nearby. 
be able to go there to get my “I think it’s a good thing for 
computer fixed or ask ques-the South Bend community, 
tions about any problems I but I don’t think it will play a 
have.” huge role for students Brown-Gort said the atmos-resident of the Peace House, said Although the Office of because a lot of people will phere was very casual during din-he and his housemates are 

Peace Information Technologies still take their computers to 
ner, with everyone in attendance involved in different activities, but provides vendor authorized the well-learned Mac special-continued from page 1 contributing an item. share a common goal of social jus­warranty repairs on Apple, ists at OIT for free,” Gauger “They had a couple big pots of tice. 
Dell and IBM/Lenovo comput-said. “It would make more of and discussion with students. stuff, of rice and kind of a curry. “It’s someone with a labor issue, ers, according to its website, a difference for purchasing “Everybody that is able to bring And then just about everybody Core Council, Progressive Student some students were unaware Apple products.” 

something to share to eat [will] brought stuff,” Brown-Gort, who Alliance and the more service side Apple computers were includ-Although she does not own and we’ll just eat and talk and brought cookies to the dinner, said. of the Center for Social Concerns,” ed in OIT’s repair expertise. an Apple computer, sopho­hang out,” Flores said. “The pro-While Brown-Gort said it was he said. “It’s really bringing togeth­“I didn’t even know I could more Betsy McGovern said fessor will give a talk and then stu-similar to the classroom in that he er people who are working on take my Mac to OIT to get it she is interested in purchas­dents can ask questions.” facilitated discussion, he said peo-these social justice causes under fixed if needed,” Angell said. ing other Apple products The dinners are open to anyone ple were more open to sharing one roof.” 
“Now that there’s an Apple from the new store location who is interested and about 20 to opinions and comments regarding The Peace House also tries to Store nearby, I would defi-in the future. 

50 students typically attend, Flores immigration. give back in simpler ways, such as nitely take it there if anything “I would definitely rather said. “It’s more of a discussion using as little energy as possible, happens.” buy a new iPod there than Allert Brown-Gort, associate because no body feels like they’re Flores said. 
Sophomore Maddie have to wait to get one when director for the Institute for Latino going to be graded on it,” he said. “We do compost. We waited as Smierciak said having an I go back home,” McGovern Studies, gave a talk on immigra-Since Brown-Gort spoke at the long as possible to turn on our Apple Store close to campus said. “It will be way more tion issues at the Peace House ear-Peace House in September, he has heat. We bike and walk whenever was a factor in deciding convenient for people to get lier this year. kept in touch with students he met we can instead of drive,” she said. 

which computer to buy prior their iPods fixed there as Brown-Gort had not heard of there and had productive discus-Rivera said he and his house-to her freshman year. well.” 

the Peace House before attending, sions. mates often get pointed out as “When I bought a computer, Smierciak also noted the but said it was nothing like he “We’ve been able to get together being an unusual example of off-I looked into whether or not prevalence of iPod-related expected. a few times and I’ve loaned them campus living, but said the Peace South Bend had an Apple issues among students and “I thought it was kind of going to some books and had some discus-House’s initiatives would not be Store, and I was initially the fact that iPod repair loca­be like a co-op. [I thought,] if that’s sions. Just sort of kicked around difficult for other students to do as apprehensive about buying a tions were few and far the case, it will really be five or six ideas for papers,” he said. “It’s well. 
Mac because there wasn’t between before the new store people, we’re going to sit down nice because that relationship can “It’s things people can do within one, ” Smierciak said. “It opened. 

and eat something and we’ll talk go on.” their own home,” he said. “It’s makes me happy that the “OIT can’t really fix your for a little while and someone will Not only does the Peace House very much opening your home to store opened because it gives iPod if it breaks, and it’s atake out the guitar … That sort of bring together intellectual and the community and what your me confidence that there is common problem for a lot of thing,” he said. “But no, it was social lives of Notre Dame stu-passion is about.” 
someone certified to handle students,” Smierciak said. 

packed. There were a lot of peo-dents, those who live there are Apple products nearby if any-“The new store will be awe­ple. And it really was a good con-also united by a common purpose. Contact Sarah Mervosh at thing happened.” some for students who have versation.” Senior David Rivera, another smervosh@nd.edu 
The convenience of the new iPod problems.” 
location in case of technologi-The “Go Irish Jobs” section 
cal emergencies was also of the Notre Dame Career 
important to sophomore Mac Center website is currently 
owner Colleen Bailey. advertising job openings for 
“I think the Apple Store will students at the Mishawaka 
be a handy resource in case Apple Store location and at 
my computer breaks in the locations across the country. 
future,” Bailey said. 
Although the store is locat-Contact Kristen Durbin at ed a few miles from campus, kdurbin@nd.edu 




page 6 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Monday, November 15, 2010 
American Indians prove victoriousonCapitolHill 

Associated Press 
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M. — American Indians have won some key victories on Capitol Hill this year and should capi­talize on them to start solving some of the problems that have plagued tribal communities for decades, said the leader of the oldest and largest Indian organization in the nation. 
Jefferson Keel, president of the National Congress of American Indians, said tribal leaders should keep the momentum going following success such as the Tribal Law and Order Act, recently signed into law by President Barack Obama, and the Indian Health Care Improvement Act, reau­thorized as part of the larger health care reform passed by Congress. 
He also cited a $680 million settlement the government has offered to American Indians who were denied farm loans to settle a 1999 lawsuit. 
“We have to realize we have an opportunity to really make a difference in Indian Country right now,” said Keel, who also serves as the lieutenant gover­nor of the Chickasaw Nation of Oklahoma. 
Keel and other leaders from throughout Indian Country are gathering in Albuquerque this week for the organization’s annual conference. They will be focused on raising aware­ness among Congress’ new members of the challenges faced by tribal communities. 
“I hope we can sit down and develop a strategy that will enable us to not only talk about those issues but carry them forward, to visit with our con­gressmen and our local law enforcement and other agen­cies and our communities so they can help us really step for­ward and alleviate some of our frustrations,” Keel said. 
The National Congress of American Indians was founded in 1944 in response to assimi­lation policies being imposed on tribes by the federal govern­ment. Today, the group moni­tors federal policy and court actions and coordinates efforts to inform federal decisions that affect tribal interests. 
Issues on the agenda for the weeklong conference include law enforcement, violence against women, teen suicide, drug abuse, education, health care, energy development and water rights. 
Interior Secretary Ken Salazar, Democratic Sen. Byron Dorgan of North Dakota and New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson will be among those addressing the confer­ence. 
It was Dorgan who champi­oned the Tribal Law and Order Act, which aims to give tribes more authority to combat crime on their reservations. 
The act makes federal law enforcement agencies more accountable by having them collect data on crimes commit­ted in Indian Country, and by requiring the U.S. Department of Justice to maintain criminal data on cases that U.S. attor­neys decline to prosecute for various reasons, including a lack of evidence. Some say fed­eral officials decline to prose­cute more than 50 percent of violent crimes on reservations. 
In another key victory this year, the Indian Health Care Improvement Act was made permanent. The law clears the way for more preventative health care, boosts mental health resources and addresses recruiting and retaining physi­cians and other care providers throughout Indian Country. 
Tribal leaders have many questions about how both laws will be implemented, but Keel said one of the major chal­lenges will be finding the resources for implementation given the federal government’s budget woes and a general desire among Americans and some members of Congress to rein in spending. 
Keel also acknowledged that voters’ feelings toward Congress and the Obama administration were “pretty negative” leading up to the midterm elections. 
“For Indian Country, we’re not partisan,” he said. “The issues that face us are Indian issues, and they affect our trib­al governments and our tribal communities so we have to work with Congress. We have friends on both sides of the 
aisle,  friends  that  are  
Republican  as  well  as  
Democrat.”  

Donor options considered 
Live-donor liver transplants have saved lives, but remains controversial 
Associated Press 
Live-donor liver transplanta­tion is a lifesaving option for many suffering from end-stage liver disease but also a contro­versial procedure that raises questions about when it’s appropriate to put a healthy person at risk to save another. 
The procedure, in which a segment of the liver is taken from a healthy donor and transplanted into the ailing recipient, is possible because of the liver’s ability to regener­ate. In weeks, both the old liver and the transplanted liver begin to grow back to a normal size, providing long­term function for both donor and patient. 
The first such successful transplantations, beginning in 1989, involved taking liver grafts from adult donors for transplantation into sick chil­dren, a procedure with fewer risks to the donor because only about 25 percent of the liver is needed. As pediatric living-donor liver transplanta­tion grew more widely accept­ed, the technique was modi­fied for use in adult patients, with up to 60 percent of the donor’s liver taken. 
Through 1996, just six adult-to-adult live-donor liver transplants had been per­formed in the United States, according to the United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS), which manages the nation’s organ transplant sys­tem. Five years later, that number had grown to 412. Today, more than 2,800 adult­to-adult procedures have been performed in the United States. 
In all of those, UNOS reports, four donors have died due to complications of the surgery or immediately follow­ing surgery. Though rare, these deaths raise the most serious question surrounding live-donor liver transplants: When is it OK to operate on an otherwise healthy person? 
The death of donor Mike Hurewitz at New York’s Mount Sinai Hospital in 2002 brought widespread scrutiny of adult live-donor liver transplants, resulting in risk-benefit stud­ies and an examination of screening procedures for donors. Hurewitz developed a bacterial stomach infection and died three days after donating part of his liver to his brother. Reviews blamed poor post-surgical care, and the state temporarily halted the hospital’s live donation pro­gram until corrective meas­ures were put in place. 
The other donor deaths were: in 1999 at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill hospital, where the donor suffered a series of complica­tions, including kidney failure, pancreatitis, a bile leak and infection; this past May at the Lahey Clinic in Massachusetts, where the donor died during surgery after a vein was detached from the vena cava, causing an uncontrollable hemorrhage; and in August at the University of Colorado hos­pital, where the donor suf­fered cardiac arrest, possibly due to a combination of surgi­cal stress and other factors. 
UNOS provides transplant centers with guidelines to ensure donors are appropri­ately evaluated. Potential donors undergo a thorough medical and mental examina­tion prior to signing a written consent agreement, and they must have an independent advocate to represent their interests alone. 
Still, there are no standard­ized procedures, and actual tests to ensure the donor’s mental and physical health may vary among transplant centers, said Dr. Connie Davis, chair of the living donor com­mittee for UNOS who stressed that, ultimately, “Every donor, heaven forbid, they have the right to say no. They don’t have to do this.” 
Katrina Bramstedt, a trans­plant ethicist who also serves as a donor advocate, said that while the ethical questions surrounding living donation are valid, risk-benefit analyses show that the procedure should continue. “Yes, occa­sionally something goes wrong, but that’s going to hap­pen in any surgical proce­dure,” she said. “Generally, the donors are well-informed and very well-screened and they’re healthy and ready to go.” 
After Hurewitz’s death, the National Institutes of Health implemented a seven-year study of adult living-donor liver transplants to weigh risks to donors and benefits to recipients. Study results found a 20-25 percent chance of donors experiencing some type of complication, the most common being bile leaks, col­lection of fluid around the lung and infections. Most were con­sidered minor, said Dr. Carl Berg, the director of hepatol­ogy at the University of Virginia, who served as a co-chair of the federal research team. The research found a 50 percent reduction in deaths among the sick patients receiving the live-donor livers, Berg said. Without the live-donor livers, those patients most likely would have remained on the cadaver transplant list — some grow­ing more ill as they awaited a transplant, some dying before a transplant ever happened. 
The back-to-back deaths in Colorado and Massachusetts this year shook the transplant community and prompted cen­ters to re-examine their pro­grams, Berg said. However, he added that so long as the ben­efits of the surgery outweigh the risks of death or complica­tion — and until more Americans decide to become organ donors at death — adult living-donor liver transplants will continue. 
“Is it safe?” he asked. “I would give half my liver to my brother in an instant, and I know as much as could be known about the risks. I would still gladly do that as opposed to having him wait for a deceased donor because I know the benefit is there, and I believe [for donors} that the quantified risk is small.” 
Blackcollegesincreaseonlineprograms 
PHILADELPHIA — When Michael Hill needed a doctoral program with the flexibility to let him continue working full-time as a Lincoln University adminis­trator, he chose an online degree from another institution. 
With such firsthand experi­ence, Hill is now trying to start an online program at Lincoln. It’s one of many historically black colleges and universities that has yet to enter a booming cybereducation market that could be particularly lucrative for black colleges. 
Blacks comprised about 12 percent of total enrollment in higher education in 2007 but were 21 percent of students at for-profit institutions — many of which are online, according to an American Council on Education report released this year. 
Tom Joyner, a syndicated radio host with a largely black audi­ence, also sees the market’s potential. The longtime historical black college and unversity booster and philanthropist has invested about $7 million to start HBCUsOnline.com, an educa­tional services venture run by his son. 
“My father noticed very early on that a lot of the students doing the online education boom were members of his listening audience,” said Tom Joyner Jr. “Those listeners could be better served by HBCUs.” 
While black colleges only enroll about 11 percent of all black students, their traditions and legacies still resonate in the African-American community. It makes sense that those schools would want to recapture stu­dents from for-profits like the University of Phoenix, said Richard Garrett, managing director of the consulting firm Eduventures. 
“This is, to us, an expected and logical trend,” Garrett said. “It’s ambitious, the timing is right. There’s a lot of opportunity there.” 
The Sloan Consortium for online education estimates about one-third of the country’s 4,500 universities offer online degrees. But only about 10 percent of the nation’s 105 historically black colleges do, according to the White House Initiative on histori­cal black institutions. (Larger percentages offer online courses without degrees.) 
“In order to keep pace and add institutional versatility, we should be in this space,” said John Wilson Jr., executive direc­tor of the White House Initiative. 
Part of the problem is money: Black colleges generally have small endowments and are largely tuition-dependent. Many don’t have the technological infrastructure to support online education, said Marybeth Gasman, an HBCU expert at the University of Pennsylvania. 
The schools also have strug­gled with low retention and graduation rates, partly because of students’ financial back­grounds. Some officials worry that online student dropouts could further drag down those rates, possibly affecting accredi­tation, said Ezell Brown, CEO of Education Online Services, another company working to put black colleges online. 

Monday, November 15, 2010 The Observer  INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
MYANMAR  SAUDI ARABIA  
Suu Kyi calls for liberty  TrainwillshuttleMuslims  
Recently freed from house arrest, democracy leader presses on  betweencitiesduringhajj  


YANGON — Myanmar’s democracy heroine Aung San Suu Kyi is vowing to press ahead in her decades-long fight for political liberty while also calling for compromise with other political parties and the ruling junta after taking her own first steps back to freedom. 
Suu Kyi, who was freed from house arrest Saturday amid a divided political landscape and days after widely criticized elections, made clear she faces a precarious position: maneuvering between the expectations of the country’s pro-democracy movement and the realities of dealing with a clique of secretive generals who have kept her locked up for much of the past two decades. 
“I’ve always believed in compromise,” the Nobel Peace laureate told reporters Sunday in the dilapidated offices of her party, the National League for Democracy, with its rough concrete floor and battered wooden furniture. “I am for national reconciliation. I am for dialogue. Whatever authority I have, I will use it to that end ... I hope the people will support me.” 
This Southeast Asian nation, once known as Burma, has been ruled by the military since 1962, leaving it isolated from much of the international community and battered by poverty. The junta has an abysmal human rights record, holding thousands of political prisoners and waging brutal military campaigns against ethnic minorities. 
In recent years, though, it has also become an increas­ingly important regional trad­ing hub, and its natural gas reserves and hydroelectric possibilities have brought it close to energy-hungry China and India. 
Earlier Sunday, Suu Kyi spoke to a rapturous crowd of as many as 10,000 people who jammed the street in front of the office. While the speech was technically illegal — any gathering of more than a handful of people needs gov­ernment permission in Myanmar — the authorities made no arrests. 

Deeply charismatic, the 65­year-old Suu Kyi is by far the country’s most popular politi­cian, a popularity the junta clearly fears. Dozens of secret police officers were on hand Sunday to record her com­ments and photograph those in attendance. 
“I believe in human rights and I believe in the rule of law. I will always fight for these things,” she told the crowd. “I want to work with all demo­cratic forces and I need the support of the people.” 
But she also urged her fol­lowers to work for national reconciliation. 
“If we want to get what we want, we have to do it in the right way; otherwise we will not achieve our goal however noble or correct it may be,” she cautioned. 
Later, Suu Kyi told reporters her message to junta leader Gen. Than Shwe was, “Let’s speak to each other directly.” The two last met in secret talks in 2002 at the encour­agement of the United Nations. 
If her comments might appear surprisingly measured for a woman who has become an international symbol of democratic reform, she has long said she was willing to negotiate, even with the junta. 
The top-ranking U.S. diplo­mat in Myanmar, Charge d’Affaires Larry Dinger, was among a group of diplomats who met her Sunday and also met her while she was under house arrest. 
“She’s made clear to us that she’s a pragmatic politician who wants to find pragmatic solutions to this country’s problems,” he said. 
Energized as Suu Kyi’s sup­porters are, she faces a mili­tary determined to cling to the power it has wielded for decades, and any collision between the two could well land Suu Kyi right back from where she emerged this week­end — house arrest and isola­tion. 
“It could be a little bit of a cat and mouse game,” said Trevor Wilson, former Australian ambassador to Myanmar and now a visiting fellow at the Australian National University in Canberra. “The regime may wait for her to make a tactical error and crack down on her again.” 
Suu Kyi’s most recent term kept her under house arrest for seven years, though she has been jailed or under house arrest for more than 15 of the last 21 years. 
In that time, she was unable to see her husband, the British scholar Michael Aris, before he died of cancer, and has never met her grandchildren. She has not seen her two sons for almost 10 years. 
But she insisted Sunday her time in detention — in a crum­bling lakeside family villa where she had a small staff — was far easier than most pris­oners here face. Human rights groups say the government holds more than 2,200 politi­cal prisoners. 
“Honestly, throughout these years of detention, they have treated me well. But they have not acted according to the rule of law, and that I will always fight against,” she told reporters. 
She said she “kept myself pretty much on an even keel” during her detention, but added for years she had only the radio for company. “I’d like to listen to human voices,” she said. 

Associated Press 
MINA — Saudi Arabia has unveiled an elevated light-rail that will shuttle some Muslims beginning the hajj Sunday between Islam’s holy sites, part of plans to turn the ancient city of Mecca into a modern metropolis and ease crowding during the annual pilgrimage. 
The four-day Islamic pilgrim­age draws around 2.5 million worshippers each year, and the large numbers present authori­ties with a challenge in pre­venting stampedes, fires in pil­grim encampments and the spread of disease. 
Dubbed the Mecca Metro, the new 11-mile (18-kilometer) light-railway is to begin shut­tling pilgrims between holy sites Monday, although it’s reserved for Saudis and citi­zens of other Gulf nations until it becomes fully operational next year. 
The train is just part of a bold plan to transform Mecca into a modern, high-tech city and increase the number of pil­grims it can host annually from the current 10 million to around 50 million by 2020. 
“We are trying to make Mecca the first city in the world that realizes the desires of its residents and visitors throughout the year by using the best urban planning, the smartest technology to ensure the trip of the pilgrim is safe, easy, and enjoyable,” Mecca mayor Ossama al-Bar told The Associated Press. 
He said the 10-year plan devised last year also envisions new roads, an improved health care and labs to keep track of viruses green initiatives and a new broadband communication network to enable pilgrims to stay connected. Religious entertainment, including cul­tural events to explain the his­tory of Islam and Mecca, is also in the works. 
Another step was taken Sunday, when officials signed a $7 billion deal to develop the nearest airport in the city of Jiddah, boosting its capacity to 30 million travelers a year. 
“It is a huge project. But it started and we hope God will­ing it will be finished within the designed period,” al-Bar said in his makeshift office in the heart of a tent city accom­modating thousands of pilgrims at Mina. 
The first phase of the Mecca Metro project will transport pilgrims between Mina, Mount Arafat and Muzdalifa — three stops during the pilgrims’ jour­ney that trace the steps of the Prophet Muhammad and Abraham. Muslims believe Abraham built the ancient structure in Mecca’s Grand Mosque known as the Kaaba. 
The lime green cars zoom along an elevated rail, passing over the permanent white tents where hundreds of thousands of pilgrims spend the night on the way to the major sites. There are 12 trains now, each with a capacity of 3,000 peo­ple, said train operator Ahmed Hosny. It will begin a limited service Monday, operating at around 33 percent of its expected capacity. 
The $2 billion train, which does not stop at holy sites in Mecca itself, was constructed by a Chinese company. 
During the tests Sunday, a recorded message in Arabic and English warned passen­gers to “mind the gap,” bor­rowing the much-loved phrase from London’s metro, known as The Tube. 
Officials say next year it will be at full capacity, serving around 500,000 pilgrims and disposing of thousands of buses that shuttle the pilgrims between rituals and crowd the streets and pollute the air. 
During the hajj, pilgrims seek forgiveness for their sins and meditate on their faith, while tracing the steps of the Prophet Muhammad and also Abraham, who Muslims believe built the ancient structure in Mecca’s Grand Mosque known as the Kaaba. 
Over several days, the pil­grims will circle the Kabaa, re­enact the desperate search by Abraham’s wife for water for her son Ishmael, and perform the symbolic act of stoning the devil. 
Saudi Arabia has for years carried out development and construction projects to expand and improve the spaces used by the millions of pilgrims from around the world who are per­forming the hajj — one of Islam’s main pillars required of every able-bodied Muslim once in their lifetime. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 8 Monday, November 15, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Love thee, Notre Dame 
“Let’s drive down Notre Dame Ave.,” my mom said when we arrived on campus for Frosh-O a little over two years ago. “I want you to see it.” 
It was the end of August, and it was hot. We had just driven the long 12 hours from my home in New Jersey, and I was not in the mood to sappily gaze at the Dome and listen to the fight song that Sara Felsenstein my mom had set off from her News Notre Dame key-Production chain. Editor 

“It’s beautiful,” I said. 

It really was beautiful: the way the sun glinted off the curves of the Golden Dome, the way the trees framed Main Building, making it seem like we were driving right into a paint­ing. 
“That’s all you have to say?” my mom asked. “Don’t you feel some­thing? Don’t you feel at home?” 

My uncle had gone to Notre Dame, so my mom has always felt a connec­tion here, but I did not grow up living and breathing the school. I never wore a Notre Dame cheerleader costume for Halloween, and the only game I had been to before coming here was the ‘07 Navy loss. 
I had never experienced that “feel­ing” before. 
This became even more evident in my First Year University seminar, when our professor asked us to write a reflection on the meaning of home. Other classmates talked about Notre Dame as their second home, a place that felt comfortable the moment they walked onto campus. 
I did not read my reflection out loud. I wanted to love Notre Dame the same way my classmates did. But for me, Notre Dame was just a college — a place to meet new people and learn new things. I did not see Notre Dame as a family. 
The more time I spent here, the more I came to love Notre Dame. It was not until my junior year, however, not until Declan Sullivan’s beautiful Mass of Remembrance and Saturday’s win against Utah, that I truly under­stood what it means to be part of the Notre Dame family. 
Two weeks ago, we gathered at the Basilica to celebrate the life of Declan Sullivan. That night, as the campus community swayed together, finding strength even amidst deep mourning, the Alma Mater was not just the Alma Mater. 
That night, I felt something more. 
For more reasons than one, we needed Saturday to happen. As we rushed onto the field, Notre Dame fans everywhere got their boost of morale. The seniors got their long-awaited moments of glory. Declan’s spirit was embodied in the blissful faces of thou­sands of students. And again, we came together as a family, in a way that only happens at Notre Dame, in a way I am so grateful I can finally understand. 
I was once skeptical, but will not be again. Going through the good and the bad, and always finding reasons to cel­ebrate: Nothing more defines a family. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Unwanted overtures 
This is an open letter to the self-declared “King of Controversy” Mark Easley and any one else who supports “Annexing SMC,” (Nov. 10). Here is our response to your kind offer to rid us of our burden of general useless­ness: as if. Don’t suppose that any self-respecting “Saint Mary’s chick” as we’re so condescendingly referred to would ever even consider such self important drivel. 
Inevitable? Notre Dame is inevitably going to annex Saint Mary’s? Right. I forgot, because those sinister Sisters of the Holy Cross (who are just wait­ing to line their “coffers” with tons of cash) have turned down numerous lucrative offers for their land because they’re just waiting for Notre Dame to make an offer — that’s us, just a bunch of girls on an expensive tract of land waiting for a Notre Dame dude to deign to send a glance our way. 
Easley, dearest, you should have learned by now that you can’t buy a pretty girl like old SMC to get her to really like you (even if you do have that impressive 4 billion burning a hole in your pocket), or throw around big words like “hubris” and “dracon­ian”— and you definitely shouldn’t insult her intelligence like you have. 
Despite our small size and dracon­ian learning style we like it that way. We like that after we’re done support­ing each and every Notre Dame team, without asking anything in return — not even your respect, apparently, since we’re so generally and casually abused daily — we can come back to a place where people don’t hit each other over the head with their own awesomeness. From the Viewpoints or comics in The Observer to the clas­sic “M-R-S degree” joke, we’ve taken it in stride for years and we’ll keep on keepin’ on ... and on, and on, and on, because there is no way you’re get­ting your grubby hands on our cam­pus. So I guess you’ll have to solve your recruiting problem some other way than dangling a bigger (some would say better) lady buffet as bait. 
Here’s the bright side — you won’t have to worry about that terribly long walk! 
Hate on me as much as you like, because that’s the Notre Dame spirit I’ve heard so much about — ganging up on a group of girls. So thanks for the favor — but no thanks. And if you meant the article as a joke ... you did-n’t write it well enough. 
Claire Eckerson 
junior Le Mans Hall Nov. 11 
Saint Mary’s can stand alone 
Dear Mark Easley, 
In response to your “Annex SMC” article (Nov. 10), as Saint Mary’s College students, we are not interested in merging with Notre Dame despite the “benefits” that you list. If you even knew a few of the intelli­gent women that attend Saint Mary’s College then you would quickly realize that many Saint Mary’s students are extremely proud to be Belles and have never pos­sessed the desire to apply to Notre Dame, much less be “annexed” by your University! 
Unquestionably, the “oppressive thumb of draconian single-sex education” that you speak of is something we cherish. Our single-sex education is not something that we feel impedes our learning in any way. Instead, the opportunity to learn in an empowering environment encourages open discussion and increased participa­tion. We do not consider our education to be draconian in any way; in fact, I think it 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
is more appropriate to say that your view towards women is draconian. 
Furthermore, a mergence between the two schools would not result in simply a “minor name change,” but rather the loss of a proud identity that we refuse to sacri­fice. In 1971 it was proposed that Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s College merge. When the plan fell through, Fr. Hesburgh said to Saint Mary’s College, “I get the impression you're in favor of the marriage, but two things are missing. Number one, you don't want to take our name, and number two, you don’t want to live with us.” Fr. Hesburgh was absolutely correct: No matter how many Notre Dame men propose to Saint Mary’s women, we as a whole are not interested in taking the Notre Dame name nor its residence halls. The current relationship between the two schools is unique and a tradition in itself; why fix something that isn’t broken? 
We clearly know where we stand in terms of priorities; merging with Notre Dame is not one of them. Contrary to your belief, we are not a territory of land beg­ging to be bought out by our “superior” brother school. We are, however, a nation­al liberal arts college that has produced thousands of successful graduates just as your university has. We “lovely ladies across the lakes” do have much to offer to the world, and we will proudly offer that with our Saint Mary’s College degrees. 
Signed, 
Lindsay Ellis 
sophomore McCandless Hall 
Dani Haydell 
sophomore Le Mans Hall 
Alyssa Vinluan 
sophomore Le Mans Hall Nov. 10 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“All charming people havesomething to conceal, usually theirtotal dependence on theappreciation of others.” 
Cyril Connolly English writer 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“But men must know, that in this theatre of man’s life it is reserved only for God and angels to belookers on.” 
Francis Bacon English philosopher 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Monday, November 15, 2010 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Dearest Shlee ... 
Will you go to the SYR with me? With Love,  
James Denue junior O’Neill Hall Nov. 14  

UWIRE 

Courts shouldn’t decide on violence 
It has always been the responsibility of adults to shield children from that which might not be appropriate for them, but in the age of accessible tech­nology it has become increasingly difficult. So then, what happens when one of the most popular forms of technology among children — video games — raises questions about violence? You get a case in the United States Supreme Court. 
More specifically, you get Entertainment Merchants 
Jason Krell 

Association v. Schwarzenegger. The case deals with whether it should be illegal to sell violent video games to children, but it’s not as simple as it sounds. 
The Arizona 

It highlights First Amendment rights and how to 
Daily Wildcat 

determine what makes a video game “unacceptably” violent. 
The hearing took place on Nov. 2, with Supreme Court Justices grilling both California Deputy Attorney General Zackery Morazzini, the attorney arguing against video games, and Paul Smith, who is representing the video game industry’s perspective. 
The issue with making it illegal to sell video games to children seems hardly debatable. But the reality is that such a ruling would impinge on developers’ First Amendment rights, forcing them to self-censor and specu­late whether their games might provoke a federal case. 
From the looks of everything, it seems pretty clear as to what the big deal is: California is concerned for the psyches of children — a completely noble and understandable aim — and worries that playing violent video games will lead them down some twisted path of degeneracy. 
The video game industry, on the other hand, insists that video games are no more damaging than any other form of violent media and that they deserve full protection from the First Amendment, just like any other art form. This battle has been raging for over a decade, but there has remained one thing stopping states like California from attacking video games. 
Plain and simple, lawyers who don’t play video games are trying to talk about them. And not just talk, but make hugely important decisions about their future. Either way, it’s clear in the transcript of the hearing that not only does Morazzini have limited understanding of the real level of violence in video games, but the justices are also not experts. 
That’s to be expected to some degree, but when your argument is based off of a hypothetical game in which you can torture babies and “Postal 2,” a 1997 game that was truly horrid, you don’t have much. To be frank, while you can do some pretty twisted things in a small handful of games, it doesn’t come close to infanticide. 
Additionally, “Postal 2,” which seems to be the only name California ever uses in its cases against video games, is nothing like any game made today. Since video games have become a respected medium of art and entertain­ment, people have formed standards. Developers, by and large, aren’t just in it for the shock value anymore. 
The Supreme Court now has the power to change video games forever with one ruling. Here’s hoping they see that video games should be protect­ed by the First Amendment. 
This column first ran in the Nov. 11 edition of the Arizona Daily Wildcat, the daily publication serving the University of Arizona. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
You know better than they do. You know you know better. 
Tell them how it is. Weigh in with a Letter to the Editor. 
‘Long live Bowie’ 
It is an incontrovertible truth that David Bowie is the greatest singer that the world has ever known and will ever know. It is also an objective fact that Brooks Smith has quite an abysmal taste of music. 
In his recent article “David Bowie is Dumb,” (Nov. 11) our Mr. Smith com­mits the logical fallacy known as reductio ad Eno — that is, denigrating a beloved artist on the grounds of association with the musician Brian Eno. Bowie’s Berlin phase, during which he worked extensively with Eno, was anything but unprolific. During this phase Bowie churned out some of his greatest music. The album “Heroes” is innovative and catchy, and features Bowie at his most creative. His following “disco” phase, as Mr. Smith refers to it, is as edgy as any­thing Bowie has created and embodies the spirit of the ‘80s! Any fanbase shared by Bowie and Coldplay is an unfortunate coincidence! 
The article groundlessly posits a false dichotomy of artistic self-promo­tion — indeed, a “pompous theatrical flair” — and profuse musical talent. 
Bowie’s eccentric styles and intelli­gently crafted characters throughout his career contribute to his greatness rather than mask any deficiency. (Nor is Bowie’s commendable acting career indicative of anything but genius!) Brooks Smith wishes he could wear platform shoes and a kimono to work. Fashion, one might say, only adds to fame. 
Bowie’s intuitive feel for the strange and his penchant for shocking novelty have enabled him to continuously adapt his music to the times. He was not, as Mr. Smith alleges, merely asso­ciated with the glam rock fad of the early ‘70s. He founded it. The “Ziggy Stardust” album of 1972, in its own right and in tandem with its successor “Aladdin Sane,” constitutes the great­est musical achievement that the world has ever seen (or heard)! 
Brooks Smith has no idea what he’s talking about! Long live Bowie! 
Matt Boutilier 
senior Duncan Hall Nov. 11 
NDSP, try to be nice ... 
We always enjoy coming back for football weekends, but especially visit­ing the Grotto one more time before hitting the road on Sunday. As we pulled up to the east security gate at 
9:45 a.m., the guard asked me where my wife and I were headed. I said “We are heading to the Grotto,” with a nice smile. His reply: “Well, make it quick.” 
Really? Do we now have a time limit for alums to be on campus? Should I pray quicker? Maybe speed read through my Hail Mary’s? Or should I just skip the prayers for the non-life threatening situations? 
You know, with alumni contributions down $120 million over the last reporting cycle, you might want to show a little courtesy to those who support this university. 
And yes, we prayed for you too. 
Daniel Carlsen 
alumnus 
Class of 1980 
Nov. 14 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 
Scene

page 10 Monday, November 15, 2010 



with this recurring theme is it takes time By ANKUR CHAWLA away from what could have been a Scene Writer thought provoking plot with dynamic 
characters. Instead, this movie is noth-

This alien sci-fi film may go down in ing more than a brainless thriller to find history as one of the worst movies ever, out if Jarrod will live or die at the end, with the likes of “Killer Clowns From and how or if the humans will find a way Outer Space,” “Lawnmower 2: Beyond to stop the virtually indestructible UFOs Cyberspace” and “The Incredibly from eating people. Strange Creatures Who Stopped Living A few bright spots exist in this movie, and Became Mixed-Up Zombies!!?” as Donald Faison (Turk from “Scrubs”) 
Despite great 

plays Terry, special effects and 
a successful stunning cine-
actor, who is matography, noth­
hilarious and ing could compen­
interesting. sate for the poor 
It is a shame acting and even 
that his role worse plot. 
was limited Moviegoers may 
in the movie actually wish or 
— had he think they were 
been the star abducted by evil 
it may have extraterrestrials 
been consid­while watching 
erably better. “Skyline.” 
In addition, The movie starts 
the special with wide and 
effects were spinning camera 
very well shots of the city of 
done and the Los Angeles, with 
story had a sudden streaks of 
good base to blue lights waking 
go from but up the clearly 
never The hung-over main 
main charac­characters. They 
ters escaped are attracted to conflicted the light like fresh-unscathed too men to the fro-yo machines at the dining easily, like the good guys never getting halls. The first character to look out the hit by bullets in older westerns. window steps onto a porch and is sucked “Skyline” is almost a comically bad in by the light, apparently abducted by movie, so if that’s your thing, by all the aliens. means see it. I, however, was incredibly 
Right after this scene, a completely disappointed with the awful plot, or lack useless flashback to a day earlier tries to there of, and hope to spare you from a establish the characters and provide a similar experience. “Skyline” barely background to the rest of the film. But deserves to be on the Sci-Fi Channel, don’t look too much into the “character and certainly would barely deserve your development” as none of it is ever men-time. tioned again and even the protagonist, 

Jarrod (Eric Balfour), has as much depth as the reflecting pool in front of Touchdown Jesus. What’s worse is after merely showing a few minutes of party scenes, the movie essentially replays the opening sequence of spinning shots and cool camera angles. Once again, the streaks of light appear and the main characters exhaustedly roll out of bed and go towards the light. 
So much of the film is time filler and repeated scenes and sequences. For instance, at least seven seconds are used as the core characters are in a car wait­ing for a gate to slowly open, not to men-


tion that every door they come across is 
Contact Ankur Chawla at

locked and they must yell at each other to open the door. The biggest problem achawla@nd.edu 
MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scene

Monday, November 15, 2010 page 11 



The most stylish part of her outfit, however, is Notre Dame pride.  That's something that never goes out of style. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 
ance of the damsel Photo Courtesy of Forever 21 spaces allotted for in distress and the Purple Tights, Forever 21, closets in our time-appearance of a $3.50 honored housing wide-eyed, grateful institutions: the princess prepared to render the dorms. Forever 21 offers a wide appropriate thank you to what she variety for just $3.50 a pair. Details, now perceives as her knight in you’ve never looked better! shining Armani. Where this fairy tale leads will obviously depend on The views expressed in this col-the results of their first shopping umn are those of the author and excursion together, but that tale, not necessarily those of The dear readers, is for another time. Observer. The crux of this story lies in the Contact Felicia Caponigri at ability of an unexpected detail to fcaponig@nd.edu@nd.edu 
MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 

Monday, November 15, 2010 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS page 12 
PGA TOUR 

Hometown Appleby holds on down under 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia — Stuart Appleby received hardly any fanfare at the Australian Masters until he slipped on the gold jacket that a year ago belonged to Tiger Woods. 
He wasn’t among the five faces on promotional posters around Melbourne, nor was he invited to the gala dinner. And even though none of the others had more wins this year — and none had ever shot a 59 to win a PGA Tour event — that was fine with him. 
“I noticed it, but it was not even close to annoying me,” Appleby said Sunday after clos­ing with a 6-under 65 for a one-shot victory. “I have an ego, no doubt about it. But it wasn’t like, ‘Oh, they haven’t got me up there?’ It’s the Tiger Woods show, and the others. You know what? It didn’t play out that way.” 
The only entertainment value from Woods came in his final hour, when he made two eagles over the final four holes and shot 65 to match his best score of the year. He still ended a full year without winning, as he fin­ished in fourth place as the defending champion. 
“I didn’t play good enough,” Woods said. “I didn’t make enough putts. That’s what hap­pens.” 
Appleby was as golden as the winner’s jacket he wore. 
He rallied from a seven-shot deficit in the final round, stayed in the game by making a 30-foot par putt on the 16th, pulled ahead with a 25-foot birdie on the 17th and two-putted for birdie on the final hole. 
Adam Bland, who had a three-shot lead going into the final round, was the last one with a chance to catch him. Bland hit 6-iron to 10 feet on the par-5 18th, but missed the eagle putt that would have forced a play­off. 
Appleby already had reason to celebrate this year, winning The Greenbrier Classic with a 59 on the last day. This might have been even sweeter. It has been nine years since he won on home soil, dating to the 2001 Australian Open. 
It wasn’t from a lack of effort, or attention. 
“We play around the world for big money and big tournaments and big fancy ratings and every­thing like that,” he said. “But you come home to Australia, and it’s real. That’s probably hurt me too many times, really wanting to win.” 
Not many would have given him much of a chance going into the final round seven shots behind. With four birdies on the front nine, he got back into the game, then holed the two long putts to finally win the third leg of the Australian Slam. He pre­viously won the Australian PGA and the Australian Open. 
Appleby finished at 10-under 274 and won for the 12th time worldwide. 
About his only mistake was nearly missing the trophy pres­entation. Coming out of the bathroom, he saw what looked to be the closing ceremony on a big video screen, then heard his name announced as the winner and sprinted under the grand­stands and onto the 18th green. Another big gallery — the Sunday attendance approached 18,000 — stuck around to watch him. 
Appleby thanked them, realiz­ing that they weren’t all there to watch him. 
Woods was not quite the same character they saw a year ago at Kingston Heath, when record crowds topped 100,000 for the four rounds and the world’s No. 1 player — at the time, anyway 
— delivered a memorable per­formance with a wire-to-wire win. 
That was his 82nd victory around the world. It remains his last. 
Twelve days later, Woods was in a car accident outside his Florida home and soon after came revelations of extramarital affairs. He sat out for nearly months, struggled through the year with his game, was divorced from his wife and is still piecing his game together with a brand new swing. 
It remains a work in progress. He didn’t show up on the leader-board at Victoria Golf Club until the final hour. 
The culprit all week was put­ting, and Woods replaced his reliable Scotty Cameron putter with a Nike Method version, which he uses at home in prac­tice. It was the second time this year he swapped out putters, also doing it for three rounds at the British Open. Both times, he attributed the switch to slow greens. It wasn’t terribly effec­tive either time. 
Woods missed two par putts inside 4 feet on the front nine and fell as many as 12 shots behind. He played the final six holes in 6 under, highlighted by the eagle putts on the par-4 15th and a 15-footer on the par-5 18th that brought the only fist pump of the week. 

“It would have been nice if I had gotten off to that start,” Woods said. 
He finished three shots back at 7-under 277, the closest he has been to the winner all year. He also was three behind Graeme McDowell at Pebble Beach in the U.S. Open. 
Woods now gets two weeks at home — including Thanksgiving, where his troubles all began — before finishing out the year in California for his Chevron World Challenge. 
NFL 

Garrett sparks Cowboys to victory in head coaching debut 
Associated Press  two third-quarter power failures that delayed the game for 11 min- thrashing of Seattle, the Giants made way too many mistakes and  misfired on the opening play of the second half. Two plays later  the drive with the TD pass to Austin, which came a play after  
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J.  —  utes.  the pundits who have been calling  with the lights dimmed in the  finding Roy Williams for 27 yards  
Jason Garrett’s first game as the  Eli Manning threw two touch- them the best team in the NFC  Cowboys end of the field, the vet- on a third-and-22.  
Dallas Cowboys coach was lights  down passes for the Giants (6-3),  need to guess again.  eran quarterback found Jones on  A 35-yard touchdown pass from  
out.  who had a five-game winning  Kitna, who took over as the  a screen on the left side and the  Manning to tight end Kevin Boss  
Jon Kitna passed for 327 yards  steak snapped.  starter after Tony Romo broke his  halfback scampered 71 yards  got the Giants within 33-20 in the  
and three touchdowns and the  Dallas gained 427 yards against  collarbone against the Giants on  untouched for a 26-6 lead.  third quarter.  
Dallas Cowboys looked revitalized  the NFL’s top-ranked defense and  Oct. 25, finished 13 of 22 with a  Manning answered with a 5­ New York appeared to cut the  
with Garrett running the team in  forced three turnovers in avoiding  meaningless interception.  yard touchdown pass to Mario  margin to less than a touchdown  
a 33-20 victory that served as a  its first six-game losing streak  Besides the plays, there were  Manningham to cap an eight-play,  midway through the fourth quar­ 
reality check for the New York  since a run at the end of 2000 and  power outages.  58-yard march that was delayed  ter when Manning and Hakeem  
Giants on Sunday.  the start of 2001.  There were two in the third  eight minutes by the second out- Nicks connected on a 48-yard  
Kitna had TD passes of 13 yards  It had to make owner Jerry  quarter lasting a total of 11 min- age, one that took out every light  scoring pass down the right side- 
to rookie Dez Bryant, 71 to half- Jones think that he waited too  utes, with the second one turning  in the stadium.  line, but the play was called back  
back Felix Jones and 24 to Miles  long before firing Phillips on  the  $1.6  billion  New  Fans clicked pictures in the  by a questionable holding penalty  
Austin as Dallas (2-7) snapped a  Monday or that Garrett was sav- Meadowlands Stadium into total  darkness and when the lights  against guard Kevin Boothe, who  
five-game losing streak in its first  ing all his good plays for when he  darkness for about 10 to 15 sec- came back on there was a fight in  was playing his first game of the  
game since Garrett replaced  took over.  onds.  one end of the stands involving  season.  
Wade Phillips.  The bottom line was Dallas  When the lights were on  — several people.  The Cowboys made big play  
Rookie  cornerback  Bryan  finally looked a little like a talent- sometimes not totally  — there  Kitna, who had not won a game  after big play in this game with  
McCann scored on a team-record  ed team instead of one which  were plenty of highlights.  since 2007, needed only six plays  none changing the momentum  
101-yard interception return in a  always found ways to lose.  The first outage lasted three  to move the Cowboys 85 yards on  more than McCann’s interception  
game highlighted by big plays and  Coming off a near perfect 41-7  minutes and came after Kitna  their next possession. He capped  in the second quarter.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 

CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
FOR SALE 
House for sale on Angela. 2.5K sq ft home. 4BR 3.5BA. Furniture ?, fully redone. $355K 574-232-2211 on web at 610.sbrp.us 
—————————————— 

FOR RENT 
Housing available for next school year. 
2 to 5 bedroom homes. Close to campus. 
Good rates and good landlord. Leasing now. 
574-276-2333 ——————————————— 
PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu. ——————————————— UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. ——————————————— Lois: “How would you like me to make your life a living hell?” 
Ace: “Well, I'm not really ready for a relationship, Lois, but thank you for asking. Hey, maybe I'll give you a call sometime. Your number's still 911? All righty then.” 
-Ace Ventura ——————————————— 
“And you want to be my latex sales­man.” 
-Seinfeld ——————————————— Andy: “There's an old saying in show business: The show must go wrong. Everything always goes wrong, and you just have to deal with it.” 
-Parks and Recreation ——————————————— Michael Scott: “Guess what? I have flaws. What are they? Oh I donno, I sing in the shower? Sometimes I spend too much time volunteering. Occasionally I'll hit somebody with my car. So sue me-- no, don't sue me. That is opposite the point I'm trying to make.” 
-The Office ——————————————— Pam: “There is a master key and a spare key for the office. Dwight has them both. When I asked, ‘what if you die, Dwight? How will we get into the office?’ He said, ‘if I'm dead, you guys have been dead for weeks.’” 
-The Office ——————————————— 
Luke: “I think I found a place where I can sell this organ. Can you drive me to the black market?” 
-Modern Family ——————————————— 

Monday, November 15, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
Brindock 
continued from page 14 
do when they worked together. 
“We went in with the determi­nation to play hard and go undefeated to get ready for the tournament next weekend. As a team we played awesome,” Brindock said. “We had confi­dence in each other and we carried poise on the court. Our chemistry was very strong, and it greatly helped us take over against Rutgers and Seton Hall. We enjoyed playing with one another and had fun playing the sport we all love.” 
The Irish took down the Scarlet Knights 3-0 (25-18, 25­8, 25-12) Saturday morning to lead the all-time series 18-0 (16-0 in regular-season confer­ence matches) over Rutgers. Eight block assists and five kills from senior middle blocker Kellie Sciacca highlighted the win as Notre Dame recorded 11 of the weekend’s 14 aces. 
Junior libero Frenchy Silva made a match-high 17 digs and two aces in the match, includ­ing one during the second set to put the Irish lead to 10-5. McHugh put up nine kills, seven digs and two aces while Eppink added in five kills of her own off of eight errorless swings. 
Fifth-seeded Notre Dame will face fourth-seeded Villanova in the Big East Tournament quar­terfinals at 10 a.m. on Nov. 19 at Pittsburgh’s Fitzgerald’s Fieldhouse as they work to build off its two-match win streak. 
“I see these wins as a new beginning. It is a great booster for the upcoming weekend,” Brindock said. “As a team, after this successful weekend, we feel strong and completely together. We are all in to take on the challenge this next weekend to be undefeated and earn the title of Big East Champions.” 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
NFL 

Brady, Patriots outgun Roethlisberger, Steelers 

Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — Tom Brady maintained his mastery of the Steelers, throwing three touch­down passes to tight end Rob Gronkowski and scoring once himself, and the Patriots bounced back from an embar­rassing 20-point loss by beating the Steelers 39-26 on Sunday night. 
No NFL team wins more on its home field than Pittsburgh, but no opposing player wins there like Brady, who has won six of seven overall against the Steelers and four of five at Heinz Field. He was 30 of 43 for 350 yards with no sacks or intercep­tions, and now has 14 career TD throws and three interceptions against the Steelers. 
The Patriots and AFC East-rival Jets are tied for the confer­ence’s top record at 7-2. 
Pittsburgh (6-3), its normally dominating defense shredded by Brady during its second home-field loss this season, drops back into a first-place tie with Baltimore in the AFC North. The Steelers played most of the game without wide receiver Hines Ward (neck), whose streak of 186 consecutive games with a reception ended. 
Brady threw only one incom­pletion during a 70-yard drive on New England’s first posses­sion that ended with his 19-yard TD throw to Gronkowski, a rook­ie who played his high school senior season in Pittsburgh. 
New England started the sec­ond half with a near-identical 78-yard drive that Brady fin­ished off with a 9-yard throw to Gronkowski, making it 17-3 and silencing a partisan crowd of 64,359 that rarely sees a rival quarterback being so effective and efficient. 
Except Brady, of course. 
As good as ever against Pittsburgh, he was more emo­tional than usual — screaming during huddles, yelling at line­men for penalties — perhaps reflecting his unhappiness at los­ing 34-14 the week before at Cleveland. 
Brady, who has averaged 373 yards in his last three starts against Pittsburgh, found Gronkowski for a third time on a 25-yarder that upped it to 36-18 and emptied out whatever fans hadn’t already left. 
Brady methodically led drive after drive by throwing under­neath Pittsburgh’s two-deep zone defense. The quick throws — welcome back, Wes Welker — confused the Steelers’ defense and negated Pittsburgh’s oft-suc­cessful blitzing schemes. 
Welker, whose production has been nearly cut in half since last season and reduced even more since Randy Moss’ departure, made eight catches for 89 yards. Gronkowski had five for 72 yards. BenJarvus Green-Ellis ran for 87 yards, the most against Pittsburgh’s defense this season. 
James Sanders effectively ended it with a 32-yard touch­down return of an interception with 8½ minutes remaining on a throw by Roethlisberger that was tipped by Patrick Chung — though there were three more touchdowns, two by Pittsburgh. 
When it comes to winning, the Patriots and Steelers are the pin­nacles of the NFL. The Patriots’ .632 winning percentage since free agency began in 1993 is the NFL’s best, and the Steelers are second at .627. Brady’s .767 winning percentage coming in led all quarterbacks, and Roethlisberger’s .700 was sec­ond. 
Think how much better the Steelers’ record would be if they didn’t meet up with Brady. 
The Steelers, unable to solve New England’s defense for most of three quarters while trailing 17-3, took advantage of a 38­yard pass interference penalty on Brandon Meriweather to advance to the Patriots 8 late in the third quarter. But Roethlisberger threw incomplete on second and third down, and Jeff Reed missed a chip-shot 26­yard field goal — his seventh miss of the season. 
The Steelers, clearly deflated, then allowed Brady to throw 45 yards to Brandon Tate on New England’s second play from scrimmage, and Brady ended the 80-yard drive with a 3-yard TD run on a quarterback draw that made it 23-3. 
Clark 
continued from page 14 
“I thought it was a game with two very good teams and possibly demonstrated the Big East as one of the strongest soccer conferences in the country,” Clark said. 
The Cardinals opened scor­ing early into the second half and got the lead they man­aged to keep all game. 
In the 72nd minute, Irish freshman forward Harrison Shipp netted a goal that was deeded offsides by the refer­ees following the play. Replay later revealed that the goal was robbed from the Irish at the error of the referee. 
“They got the goal that counted, obviously. That was disappointing,” Clark said. “You must accept the refer­ee’s decision. We’ve moved on. We can’t dwell on the past. These things happen in sports and you just move on.” 
Overall, the Cardinals had 15 shots against the Irish with five on goal, while Notre Dame matched the five shots on goal and but fell short on total shots with 11. Senior forward Steven Perry and junior midfielder Brendan King doubled-up with shots on goal. Senior midfielder Jeb Brovsky had a couple of shots, but was taken out for a portion of the game due to a leg injury, but reentered the game with 20 minutes left. 
“I think he’ll be ready to practice on Tuesday,” Clark said. 
Clark stressed that he wants the team to make one adjustment to their team’s performance, a lesson they got with the loss to Louisville. 
“I think we played a strong 80 minutes, but a soccer game lasts 90 minutes,” Clark said. “I think we didn’t chase the game perhaps as well as we could have. With 10 minutes left to go, I think we could have done that a lit­tle better. We lost a little bit of our discipline at that time, it was up to our discipline and passion to tie the game up. I think that’s something we can work on before the NCAAs.” 
With the loss behind them, the Irish will prepare for their next test, the first round of the NCAA tourna­ment. 
“This weekend was very good for preparing us for the NCAA tournament. We learned a lot about ourselves in the game,” Bobby Clark said. “We know we’re a very good team. Now it’s a matter of still growing. That’s the key to our season, and I hope we’ll still have four weeks left to continue the team’s development.” 
The time and place of Notre Dame’s first round game of the tournament is pending on tomorrow’s NCAA men’s soc­cer selection. ESPNU will reveal the 48 teams and the tournament bracket by 5 
p.m. Monday. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
NCAA BASKETBALL 
IU breezes past Wright St. 
Associated Press 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. — Verdell Jones’ offense is back. The three-week injury layoff that left Indiana coach Tom Crean worried? 
Forget about it. 
Jones scored 27 points, one point off his career high, on 11-of-14 shooting to pace Indiana to a 67-44 victory over Wright State on Sunday night. 
That was a big turnaround from the season-opening win two days earlier against Florida Gulf Coast, when Jones totaled seven points on 3-for-10 shooting. 
“I could tell I was back this morning in walk through,” he said. “My legs felt good. My ankle felt strong. I felt a lot better all around.” 
A sprained ankle sidelined Jones for nearly three weeks of practice. He missed both exhibition games. Against Wright State he showed the form that enabled him to average 14.9 points last sea­son and earn All -Big Ten honors. 
“Verdell finished,” Crean said. “It’s a great confidence builder for him. When you miss practice time like he did, it can really set you back. We’ re getting the whole season ready in that time, and he missed most of it. But he played like a veter­an — with room for improve­ment.” 
That’s what Wright State coach Billy Donlon was wor­ried about before the game. 
“It wasn’t like this was his first game back. He’s really good. He’s a gamer,” Donlon said. 
Christian Watford added 17 points and 10 rebounds for the Hoosiers. 
Indiana (2-0) held Wright State to 19 first-half points, the Hoosiers best defensive showing in Crean’s three-year Indiana run. 
“I was proud of our defen­sive effort,” Crean said. “Our offense wasn’t in the flow at the start, and we never got our heads down. We played at a high level on the defen­sive end. For this team to defend that way for 40 min­utes gives us something to build on.” 
The Hoosiers’ defense fueled the offense as the game went on. Indiana’s 60­percent shooting was the best of the Crean era, as was its 40-20 rebound advan ­tage. 
“Our guys figured out how to win a grind-it-out game” he said. “That will be very beneficial for us down the road.” 
Wright State (0 -1) held Indiana to four points for the first nine minutes but only led by five. That was a blown opportunity, Donlon said. 
“When you’re on the road and have a decent defensive game plan, you ’ve got to build a little lead so when they do go on a little run in the first half in their build­ing, it’s to get back in the game and not to take over the game. 
“Give them credit. That’s their defense doing a terrific job against our offense.” 
Wright State senior guard Vaughn Duggins, who went to high school at Pendleton Heights in Indiana, finished with a team-high 15 points. 
“We weren’t here to sight­see,” he said. “We came here to play, and we came out at the start and we showed that. We have to sustain the constant effort of a 40 ­minute game.” 
After totaling six turnovers and making just 2-of-6 shots in the first eight minutes, Indiana finally found its rhythm behind Jones. A 15-1 run gave the Hoosiers a 19­10 lead and control of the game. 
Duggins, who scored nine 
of the Raiders’ first 15 points, went out with his second foul with 8:40 left. The Hoosiers capitalized seconds later when Jones hit a jumper, then had a steal and a layup. With foul trou­ble depleting Wright State’s thin bench, Duggins returned. 
Indiana pushed ahead 28­
16. Duggins hit a 3-pointer before Hoosier freshman guard Victor Oladipo ended the half with a steal and a layup for a 30 -19 score. Indiana shot 58.8 percent from the field in the first half while holding Wright State to 26.1 percent. The 
H o o s i e r s  g r a b b e d  2 2  
r e b o u n d s  t o  t h e  R a i d e r s ’  
five.  

Indiana went up 37-21 two minutes into the second half. Wright State cut it to 39-30 with 11 minutes left before the Hoosiers pulled away for good. 
Indiana won the teams ’ only other meeting in the first round of the 1993 NCAA tournament. 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, November 15, 2010 
Shawel 
continued from page 15 
ished the race in 31:18.36 for 35th place. Freshman Martin Grady was not far behind at 40th place in 31:22.08. Junior Joe Miller and senior Mat Abernethy rounded out the Irish line-up in 
31:43.98 and 33:24.02 to take 57th and 139th place. 
“The team’s next step is to be competitive as possible at nation­als. We’ve got a young team, so any experience we pick up this time around will help us for when we’re back at nationals next year,” Rae said. 
The women were led by fresh­man Alexa Aragon, who complet­ed the six-kilometer race in 
21:25.22 to take 22nd place earn­ing all-region. As with the men, a small gap existed between the first and second runner when jun­ior Rachel Velarde crossed the line just seconds later at 21:43.83 for 41st. 
“I did not achieve my goal I had coming into this race, but it was probably my best race of the sea­son,” Velarde said. 
The next three runners for the Irish piled in neatly back to back, 
Kenney 
continued from page 18 
broke another personal record as she finished with a run in the 22-minute range for the first time ever. Her final time of 
22:53.3 granted her 34th place finish overall. Kenney’s day received All-Region honors at the conclusion of the race. 
“Julia ran a very tough race, and I was so excited to see her finish in the top 35 and receive All-Region recognition,” Bauters said. “I definitely see bigger things happening for her next year.” 
Junior Joanne Almond, the second-place finisher on Saint Mary’s squad, also had a per­sonal record with a time of 
23:33.1. Sophomore Emma Baker finished 73rd, running a 
23:44.7. Senior Catie Salyer took 102nd overall, finishing with a time of 24:11.2. Sam Wassel, a senior, ran well enough to put the Belles to fin­ish ahead of Adrian and Alma in the team standings; Wassel finished 153rd overall in 25:08.5. 
with senior Erica Watson taking 45th in 21:47.16 and freshmen Kelly Curran and Meg Ryan tak­ing 48th and 51st in 21:48.56 and 21:50.73. 
Rounding out the line-up were sophomore Rebecca Tracy and senior Molly Hirt, who finished the race in 22:10.81 and 22:43.22 to earn 69th and 102nd place. 
While they may not have advanced to Nationals, the women nonetheless have a fun memory to carry forward from this weekend. 
“The best part of the experience was having the entire team on the sidelines wearing kilts and being the loudest cheerers out there. They gave us so much momentum during the race, and I can’t thank them enough for that,” Velarde said. 
The men have a week to pre­pare before the NCAA Championship next Monday, Nov. 22 at Terre Haute, Indiana at noon. The women’s team conclud­ed their fall season at regionals and now begins preparation for the indoor track season, which begins December 3 at Notre Dame’s Blue and Gold Meet. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
Sophomore Angela Nebesny and senior Clare McVey finished sixth and seventh for Saint Mary’s at 25:16.9 and 25:27.7, respectively. 
Bauters pointed out the tremendous contribution her seniors made to the team this season. 
“Our senior class has really helped develop the atmosphere that we are looking for in our program,” Bauters said. “Their contributions to our success as a team are huge, and we defi­nitely have some holes to fill next fall. It's a very special group and I'm going to miss them all. It's going to be really hard to see them go.” 
Although the season is now over, Bauters said she is happy with the success of her team this year, and is optimistic for the 2011 season. 
“Overall, I am very pleased with the season,” Bauters said. “I think we broke through some serious barriers this season, and many of the girls see what their potential can be for next year.” 
Contact Katharine Mack at kmack1@nd.edu 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish fall to Louisville in Big East semifnals 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish campaign for a Big East Championship ended Friday with a 1-0 loss against the No. 1 Louisville Cardinals, in the tournament’s semifinal event, sending the Irish back to South Bend to prepare for the NCAA tournament. 
“Louisville had a fantastic season this year,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “I think we were the better side. We pos­sibly outplayed them in a many parts of the game. Having said that, we must also congratulate them.” 
The Irish, sporting a second seed placement in the blue division, fell to the Cardinals boasting not only a top seed in the red division, but also the top spot on the national ranks. 
They’re a well organized team, and they work very hard as a team. They’re well coached,” Clark said. “Their biggest asset is that they play well together as a team. “They attack as a team, they defend as a team.” 
In the first half of the game, the teams proved evenly matched as they headed off the field, each team scoreless. Louisville outshot Notre Dame 2-1 in the first half of the con­test, but the Irish had two shots on goal to the Cardinal’s one. 
see CLARK/page 13 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish sweep twice over weekend 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Two straight sweeps and 31 kills from junior outside hitter Kristen Dealy marked the end of the regular conference sea­son for the Irish as they defeated Rutgers and Seton Hall over the weekend to put them at (17-11 overall, 10-4 Big East) as they head into the Big East tournament next weekend. 
“We are really excited because this weekend's games are a springboard for the upcoming Big East tourna­ment,” Dealy, a co-captain of the squad, said. 
A number of other Notre Dame players looked ahead to the Big East tournament, including freshman outside hitter Andrea McHugh, who has earned five Big East week­ly honors this season. 
“It feels really good to end the conference on two solid wins,” she said. “As a team and coaching staff we have really been focusing on finish­ing strong and building each and every day as a team so we can perform our best in the Big East tournament.” 
Dealy complimented her 31 kills, 20 of which came Sunday at Seton Hall, with 9 digs on Saturday at Rutgers and 15 on Sunday for one of her best hit­ting weekends this season. She averaged 5.17 kills/set and 
4.00 digs/set across six sets, but still brought her success back to the efforts of her team­mates. 
“I am really impressed with the selflessness of each player and the cohesiveness with which we played,” Dealy said. “This is essential for the tour­nament, because we clearly have the talent to be very suc­cessful, we just need an all out effort from the entire team all at once, which I think we saw this weekend.” 

Notre Dame saw strong hit­ting from all sides of the court this weekend as the team hit .377 against the Scarlet Knights and .267 over Seton Hall, including 14 aces from six Irish players. 
Sunday’s 3-0 win (25-23, 25­20, 25-17) almost wasn’t a sweep when hitting errors on the Notre Dame side gave the Pirates five free points and putting the Irish down 7-5. The two teams traded runs until Seton Hall broke out with a pair of three-point runs. An ace from Dealy tied the set at 20-20 and two kills from fresh­man middle blocker Sam Brown brought them to set point at 24-21. A Dealy kill closed the set. 
The Irish fell behind in the second set but back-to-back Dealy kills and an ace at 17-12 propelled them to another win before taking down the Pirates again in the third. 
Freshman outside hitter Andrea McHugh recorded 10 kills and 10 digs at Seton Hall to chip in on offense while sophomore middle blocker Hilary Eppink had six kills, while five more Irish players recorded a kill in the match. 
Freshman setter Maggie Brindock had a career week­end with 25 assist, five digs and four blocks Sunday after posting 25 assists, three aces and eight blocks at Rutgers. Similar to Dealy’s outlook, Brindock said she felt that the weekend was really a display of what the Irish players could 
see BRINDOCK/page 13 


Monday, November 15, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
Voran 
continued from page 17 
penalty kill as well.” 
The Wolverines responded to the Irish victory with a five-goal performance on Saturday night. Michigan rode three sec­ond-period goals to take the lead for good. Notre Dame led 2-1 after one period on goals from Tynan and Lee, but two goals in the span of a minute for Michigan and a late goal from Hagelin were too much for the Irish. Senior defender and captain Joe Lavin also lit the lamp in the game for the Irish. Jackson said the fluky nature of some of the goals for Michigan lessened his concern about the game’s result. 
“They were strange circum­stances,” Jackson said. “Give Michigan credit, because you have to be a talented team to take advantage of some good bounces, but there were some strange goals on Saturday. I felt bad for [sophomore goal­tender] Mike Johnson. I thought he played very well in the game, and some of the goals he gave up, I don’t know if anyone could have stopped them. It was a little disheart­ening.” 
The loss on Saturday ended a five game road trip for Jackson’s team, as the Irish went 2-2-1 on the tough stretch. They will be back in action Friday at the Joyce Center against Michigan State in CCHA action. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
Bentley earns bronze at Penn St. 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame traveled to Happy Valley this weekend to compete in the Garret Open where junior Reggie Bentley brought home a bronze medal for the Irish. The event featured top fencing squads from across the country including Penn State, University of Pennsylvania and Princeton. 
The women’s portion of the tournament took place Saturday. Irish freshman Lian Osier finished first for the Notre Dame women in the sabre. Osier fell in the medal round to Monika Aksamit from Penn State and finished fourth in the event. 
Many of the top Notre Dame women did not com­pete in the tournament. Juniors Beatriz Almeida, Courtney Hurley, and Ewa Nelip competed in the World Championships in Paris host­ed by the International Fencing federation. 
Bentley claimed bronze in the foil event with a win over Penn State’s Michael El -Saleh. Irish coach Janusz Bednarski was pleased with Bentley’s performance. 
“He was able to beat a Penn State fencer, which is very good news for us because we are always in competition with them,” Bednarski said. “To get a win there is a great achievement.” 
Senior Gregory Schoolcraft also competed in a medal match for the Irish. He fell in the epee bronze medal match to Princeton’s Edward Kelley. 
Overall, Bednarski drew positive results from the com­petition they faced. 
“We fenced pretty strong in this event, and are pleased to come away with a bronze medal,” Bednarski said. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 

Irish participate in NCAA Midwest Regional 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
After a week of tapering in preparation, the Irish joined more than 30 teams this weekend for the NCAA Midwest Regional Saturday. The men placed third, finishing behind Wisconsin and Indiana, and the women took sixth. 
The race, hosted at the Katke-Cousins Golf Course in Rochester, Mich., set the tone for the NCAA Championship next weekend. 
“The team ran really well and we were pleased with how we placed. Coming into the meet we knew that a top-three finish would get us to Nationals, and that’s exactly what ended up hap­pening,” Rae said. 
Senior Dan Jackson continued his season-long streak, finishing at the top of the Irish line-up. Jackson came in at fourth place of over two hundred runners in the 10-kilometer race, coming in at 
30:31.11. Only seconds later came sophomore Jeremy Rae, who took 16th place in 30:42.01, and junior Jordan Carlson, who crossed the line in 30:51.30 for 22nd place. All three earned all-region honors. 
“I had never run a 10-kilometer race before, so I really did not know what to expect. Jordan Carlson and I had just planned on running together for as long as possible and beating as many Indiana, Ohio State or Michigan State guys as we could,” Rae said. 
Junior Johnathan Shawel fin-
see SHAWEL/page 14 



page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, November 15, 2010 
back Will Salvi managed only one catch. 

GringWeasels 
Both, however, made their continued from page 20 marks on defense. Salvi inter-
continued from page 20 

cepted a Spinelli pass in the end dynamic offense took the field 
don’t really know if I was or not.” zone and Robinson continuously with good field position, and 
When the ball came down, it disrupted the Dillon offense by was able to drive on several 
appeared as if the pass would be batting down balls and getting to long runs by senior quarter-
intercepted in the endzone, but the quarterback. The Observer back Simone Bigi. But after 
Gring wrestled the ball away Editor-in-Chief and Sorin defen­reaching the red zone, the 
from a Big Red defender for the sive lineman Matthew Gamber Pasquerilla West offense 
catch and the score. had seven tackles for the Otters. stalled, and three incomplete 
“I think it bounced off my thigh After a first half that saw four passes from Bigi gave the ball 
pad and I was able to catch it,” total turnovers, three by Sorin right back to the Ducks. 
Gring said. and one by Dillon, the second half Bishop and Howard capital-
For Spinelli, who had tears run-was just as defensively oriented. ized by opening up their 
ning down his face during the Sorin only managed 42 total spread offense that led the 
post-game celebration, that single yards of offense in the second half found sophomore running back After Sorin’s touchdown, soph­league in scoring this year. 
play erased some of his lingering and did not get a first down until Terry Howard over the middle for omore kicker Connor Wathen Bishop found senior wide 
ghosts from the past. the fourth quarter. Their only a 16-yard gain. Three plays later, booted the game-winning extra receiver Kaitlin Robinson for a 
“My last pass in high school sustained drive of the second half the Big Red lined up for a game-point, giving Soring the champi­27-yard heave down the side-
was an interception and now to saw three first downs two on con-winning 38-yard field goal. onship. Wathen could be seen line followed up by a long 
have my last pass of the season secutive completions to senior The potential game-winner, after the game holding the game pass to sophomore wide 
be a touchdown in the champi-wide receiver Jon Beckerle but however, fell just short of the ball. receiver Laura Coletti for 
onship game, in Notre Dame was halted inside Dillon territory. uprights and the contest headed “It was a great team win today. another 20 yards. On the very 
Stadium, this is amazing,” A false start penalty and a sack to overtime with the game still Matt [Gring] made his first catch next play, Bishop was flushed 
Spinelli said. “I knew I wouldn’t by Dillon freshman David Kenney tied at zero. of the year and Connor [Wathen] from the pocket, then took off 
be able to play football for Notre derailed the drive and forced the Dillon got the ball first to open won the game for us,” Browder and weaved through defend-
Dame but to play and win in the Otters into a turnover on downs. the overtime period. On a fourth said. “But we couldn’t have done ers for the game’s only score. 
Stadium is pretty special.” After the stop on fourth down, down from the two, the Big Red it without [former Sorin rector] “Their defenders were 
Both sophomore wide receiver the Big Red took over from their opted not to kick the field goal but Fr. Jim. This feeling is unbeliev­crowding the middle to take 
playmakers for Dillon and Sorin own 38-yard line. As Dillon rather go for a touchdown. Senior able. We’ve been working for this away the pass to the center, so 
were kept relatively quiet on the moved the ball into Sorin territo-captain and running back Jordan moment for four years and it’s I wheeled outside and was 
day offensively. Sorin wide receiv-ry, it faced a fourth and four from Smith plunged into the end zone finally here. It’s incredible.” able to find the end zone,” 
er and linebacker Ryan Robinson the Sorin 46-yard line. Dillon to give Dillon the lead. The extra said Bishop, who finished with 
had only four catches while Dillon freshman quarterback Kevin point, however, sailed wide left Contact Matthew DeFranks at 149 passing yards. 
(6-1) wide receiver and defensive Fink eluded the pass rush and and the lead stayed at 6-0. mdefrank@nd.edu 
The Purple Weasels couldn’t get their offense going for the remainder of the half, but not for a lack of trying. Pasquerilla West threw every­thing at Howard, running halfback passes, reverses, option passes and even a hook-and-ladder, but to no avail, as its next two drives ended in a punt and a turnover on downs. 
“Their offense came at us with all sorts of looks, but our defense was really able to adapt to everything,” Bishop said. 
Pasquerilla West’s defense stepped up in a big way as well, as Howard seemed primed to break the game open before halftime. One pass from Bishop was inter­cepted in the end zone, and Robinson was tackled just short of the goal line on the last play of the half, keeping the game in reach. 
“Our offense never really clicked, but our defense was able to step up and keep us in it,” Purple Weasel captain Libby Koerbel said. 
Pasquerilla West appeared to tie the game late in the sec­ond half, when Bigi found sophomore wide receiver Alice Yerokun in the flat. Yerokun scampered 41 yards to the goal line, but the play was called back on a flag-guarding call. 
“They called flag-guarding on the play, that’s a tough call for us,” Koerbel said. “I don’t think it was a good call, but at least they called it both ways.” 
Pasquerilla West turned the ball over three plays later, and Howard ran out the clock and celebrated as champions for the second year in a row. 
For Koerbel and Pasquerilla West, it was another missed chance against the same Howard squad. 
“I’m really proud of our guys, we had a great year,” Koerbel said. “But right now it feels awful.” 
On the other sideline, Howard received their trophy and was able to reflect on another perfect season. 
“Hats off to Pasquerilla West, they gave us everything we could handle today,” Bishop said. “To win again is just the perfect ending to our four years.” 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu 



Monday, November 15, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
HOCKEY 

Irish, Wolverines split pair 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
The freshman-laden No. 11 Notre Dame team got its first taste of a bitter rivalry with No. 9 Michigan this weekend, splitting a pair of games on the road at hostile Yost Arena. The Irish won 3-1 on Friday night before dropping a 5-3 decision on Saturday to the Wolverines. 
“I thought the kids played well this weekend,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “Friday was a really solid game, and Saturday was a real tough game emotionally for us because the kids played very hard.” 
This year’s edition of the rivalry between the Irish (7-3­1, 5-2-1-1 CCHA) and Wolverines (6-3-3, 5-2-1-0 CCHA) got underway Friday as the teams traded goals in a sloppy, disjointed first period. Sophomore left wing Nick Larson scored first for the Irish three minutes into the period, and the Wolverines wasted no time in equalizing the score, as left wing Carl Hagelin netted nine seconds later. The rest of the first period passed without either team adding to the score. Jackson said his concern about the Irish adjusting to the intensity of elite teams early on in games was on display on Friday. 
“It’s happened to us two or three times now,” Jackson said. 

“We need to do a better job of recognizing the situation going into a road environment. We can’t play too loose offensively, obviously there needs to be some creativity, but there needs to be smart creativity on the offensive end.” 
The game settled down in the second period and both teams put together a strong defensive period. The game remained scoreless going into the third period. 
In the third period, the Irish pulled ahead for good on goals from freshman defender Kevin Lind and senior wing Calle Ridderwall. The go-ahead goal from Lind—the first of his career — came less than two minutes into the period. 
Jackson said he was pleased with the play of many of his freshmen standouts over the weekend. 
“The freshmen are learning how to prepare themselves to play,” Jackson said. “[Freshman wing] Jeff Costello moved up this weekend to one of our top lines. [Freshmen] Anders Lee and T.J. Tynan con­tinue to play on the top lines. Mike Voran is showing his abil­ity to play more minutes. They’re getting chances to play on the power play and on the 
see VORAN/page 15 
Waldrum 
continued from page 20 
forward in 2009 but had been playing defense in 2010. 
“I had been worried for a while but we were still tying games and not losing them, so I was a little reluctant to make any changes,” he said. “I’m never one that wants to lose but I think it could have been a blessing. Certainly pushing Lauren up front and put­ting [junior defender] Molly Campbell in the back has seemed to re-energize the front line.” 
The substitution paid off, as Fowlkes scored three goals and had two assists over the weekend to shake fourth-seeded Notre Dame out of its offensive dol­drums. The pair of victories was especially pleasing for Waldrum, as they came on the heels of an unexpected upset loss. 
“It was a huge weekend. As difficult as the four teams were, I was really, really pleased with how we handled it,” he said. “I thought we were good Friday night against New Mexico, but maybe played our best game we’ve played all year [against USC.]” 
It took the Irish some time to shake off the rust against the Lobos, but junior forward Melissa Henderson’s penalty-kick goal twenty minutes into the game gave Notre Dame a 1-0 halftime lead. Fowlkes broke out in the second half, scoring twice in fifteen minutes to put the game away. The Irish dominated the stat sheet, firing 20 shots to New Mexico’s seven. 
Sunday’s game was all Notre Dame from the starting whistle right down to the final horn. 
Senior forward Rose Augustin ripped a shot past Trojan goal­keeper Shelby Church from 22 yards away seven minutes into the contest, followed sixty sec­onds later by Fowlkes’ third of the weekend. 
“The early start with Rose’s goal and for Lauren to come back a couple of minutes later – to get those two so quick was exactly what we needed,” Waldrum said. “It was a great start. I thought the kids played well really all game.” 
Henderson scored in the sec­ond half on an assist from Fowlkes, and the two displayed some nifty passing in earning a double assist late in the game on a goal for freshman forward Adriana Leon. The chances were plenty for the Irish in both games against two defensively sound teams. 
“One of the most pleasing things to me was that we played two really good teams and creat­ed a lot of chances in both games,” Waldrum said. “I think the kids were really ready to play.” 
The victory sets up a third-round clash with No. 1-seeded North Carolina, Notre Dame’s traditional postseason nemesis. The game will take place this weekend, tentatively scheduled for 5 p.m. pending approval from the NCAA Division I Women’s Soccer committee. 
The team will have a full week of practice to prepare for the next round. 
“We’ve got to just keep doing the things that we do well,” Waldrum said. “We can go to Carolina and get a win.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, November 15, 2010 
McGraw 
continued from page 20 
ed it to be in the first half,” McGraw said. “I thought the press was good, the pressure was good. We scrambled well 
— we really did a nice job.” 
With the loss of 2010 gradu­ates Ashley Barlow and Melissa Lechlitner, McGraw has changed her team’s offense in response to the different per­sonnel on the team. No longer a squad that relies heavily on perimeter shooting, the Irish have a balanced attack that starts at the top with sopho­more guard Skylar Diggins. 
“We have so many weapons, and we have so many people who can score,” McGraw said. “That makes us really hard to guard when you think you’re going to shut down one person and then another gets hot.” 
To commemorate the 10th anniversary of the 2000-01 national championship team, the Irish honored Ruth Riley and the members of the squad during a halftime ceremony that brought Irish fans to their feet. Riley’s number 00 was retired before the start of the game, as her jersey was added to the Ring of Honor at Purcell Pavilion. 
“It was amazing — well deserved,” McGraw said. “We are so blessed to have her as a representative of Notre Dame and of our program. She was an outstanding person as well as a player. She has made her mark and left an amazing lega­cy for everybody at Notre Dame. It was a proud moment for everybody in the arena.” 
Notre Dame’s 36 steals breaks the previous mark of 29, while the 49 forced turnovers eclipses a 30-year­old record of 48 turnovers set in 1980. 
“We’ve been going defense day in and day out,” Novosel said. “One of our points of emphasis is just defense and intensity. Once it starts, it’s really contagious and everyone gets up to pressure, and then it’s just an exciting feeling.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

Brey 
continued from page 20 
point in the process. 
“I think Ben has set a great tone, letting the game come to him,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “That’s a big step forward for him. That’s why he’s become a better shooter. I think he’s truly playing like a fifth-year senior guard, and his tempo’s better.” 
Hansbrough was 9-15 from beyond the arch over the week­end and led the team in both points and minutes in both games. 
Notre Dame had to change gears against Liberty Sunday, beating the Flames 72-51 in a slow-paced game. Senior Tyrone Nash had 16 points and nine rebounds, shooting 12-15 from the free throw line and causing foul trouble for much of Liberty’s front court. 
“When their team fouls up early, we try to use that as a weapon, and it really paid off today,” Nash said. “I worked on it all summer. When I was home, I just wanted to lay around and watch T.V. and rest, and my dad would say, ‘Go to the gym and shoot some free throws, Ty.’ I knew to help out my teammates this year, I would have to be able to knock them down from the free throw line, because they’re going to put me there and I’m just trying to convert.” 
Liberty started out the game on top, scoring the first four points, and kept itself in contention until the last five minutes of the first half, when Notre Dame went on a 16-3 scoring run, taking a 19­point lead at half. The Flames never came within 15 points after that point. 
“We played two games, and you couldn’t have two more drastic styles of play and drastic styles of game, which I hope will be good for us,” Brey said. “I like the fact that I had to play some key guys more minutes, more like it’s going to be. I thought our three guys of the bench in the second half really gave us a good lift, and we have to keep devel­oping that. They really helped us in the second half, giving us a lift.” 
Brey said freshman guard Eric Atkins also impressed him over the weekend. Atkins scored 19 points and recorded seven assists over the weekend, but Brey praised his demeanor on the court. 
“For a young guy, [Atkins’] focus is excellent,” Brey said. “He is really sharp, picked out system up. He continues to come in and run our team. I have never seen him trying to get his stuff. Even when he’s playing and running the blue team, and there’re less weapons that he’s playing with, he stays in character. Not a lot of guys any year can do that.” 
But Atkins’ said the unselfish­ness comes easily. 
“It’s actually very easy to not search for my shot,” Atkins said. “With all the great shooters we have and all the great finishers, when I get into the lane I always try to look for them. I will grow into [hunting my shot], but for right now I’m just more of a facilitator and that’s OK with me. I pride myself on it. I want to have a lot of assists every game.” 
Atkins, Hansbrough and the Irish will be back in action Wednesday when they take on Chicago State at 7:30 p.m. in the Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles finish 15th in final meet 
“The field was packed. We have some really tough compe­tition in the Great Lakes,” Bauters said. 
Among these were MIAA foes No. 10 Hope, who finished sec­ond, and No. 7 Calvin, the win­ner of the Regional. The Belles did finish ahead of MIAA conferences foes Adrian and Alma Saturday. 
Sophomore Julia Kenney 
see KENNEY/page 14 
By KATHARINE MACK 
Sports Writer 
Although the Belles’ season came to an end Saturday after­noon at Regionals, the race concluded a one of the most successful seasons in program history. 
“It was a pretty good day yesterday,” Belles coach Jackie Bauters said. “Everyone ran fairly well, although we were hoping for some faster times. 
The race started very fast, so I was pleased that they held on as well as they did. We also finished 15th, which was one of our team goals.” 
The Belles improved from a 17th place finish in the NCAA Division III Great Lakes Regional last year to a 15th place finish this year with a score of 407. The field com­prised of 34 squads, which included numerous top-25 pro­grams. 



Monday, November 15, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 




TUESDAY VARIETY SHOW 

 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports

Monday, November 15, 2010 page 20 
INTERHALL FOOTBALL 

Otters, Ducks achieve Stadium glory 
No. 2 Sorin upsets 


Howard prevails No. 1 Dillon to take 
as favorite in interhall crown 
title matchup 
By MATTHEW DeFRANKS By JACK HEFFERON 
Sports Writer Sports Writer 

Two high-powered teams and running back Michael 
When Sorin senior captain 

ran out of the tunnel on Browder was doused with ice 
Sunday, but in the end it cold water by his teammates, 
was No. 1 Howard that he could only utter three 
held on for a 7-0 win over words: “I’m so cold!” But his 
No. 2 Pasquerilla West and ice-cold fingers still held onto 
a second straight Interhall the championship trophy after 
championship in Notre No. 2 Sorin defeated No. 1 
Dame Stadium. Dillon, 7-6 in overtime in 
The Ducks (7-0) came out Notre Dame Stadium on 
with the ball first and tried Sunday. 
to set the tone with a series Sorin (6-1) senior wide 
of short passes, including receiver Matt Gring caught his 
several to freshman center first pass of the year from 
Amelia Vojt. The stout sophomore quarterback Ted 
Pasquerilla West (6-1) Spinelli in overtime on a third-
defense stepped up though, and-goal from the 17-yard 
and knocked a fourth-down line for the only Otter touch-
pass by Howard senior down of the game. 
quarterback Kayla Bishop “Ted must have thought I 
to the turf. was open,” Gring said. “But I GRANT TOBIN/The Observer MICHAEL BURKE/The Observer 
The Purple Weasels’ 

Sorin senior quarterback Michael Browder sheds a Howard celebrates after its 7-0 victory over see GRING/page 16 Dillon tackler during the Otters’ 7-6 overtime win. Pasquerilla West Sunday in Notre Dame Stadium. see WEASELS/page 16 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Irish beat Georgia Southern, Liberty in impressive fashion 
Dale Layer said after the game. Charlton Young went even fur-Notre Dame picked up its first continue to improve on the
By ERIC PRISTER 
“When you have that combina-ther. win of the season Friday against defensive end and with rebound-
Sports Writer 
tion, they don’t beat themselves, “They came out and did what Georgia Southern, defeating the ing. We came out really focused they look for the proper shot an old, savvy, veteran team is inexperienced Eagles 98-61. The and we just wanted to throw the 

After two decisive victories most of the time. They outsized supposed to do to a bunch of Irish started out fast, going on a first punch — the first punch was over the weekend over Georgia us at every position, and when young whipper-snappers,” Young 30-3 run to start the game. a K.O.” Southern and Liberty, many were you outsize and out-experience said. “They’re good. They’re “With this team, we talk about Ten of Notre Dame’s 12 active quick to praise the Irish squad. at every position, good things huge, they shoot the ball, and no matter who we play we’re players recorded double-digit But it was the opposing coaches typically happen for you. I like they’re well-coached. Their size going to come out,” Irish senior playing time, and all twelve who were the most complimenta-their team, I like its spirit, I like is going to be a match-up prob-guard Ben Hansbrough said. “We recorded a rebound against ry. its unselfishness, I like its ability lem not only for a Southern talked about how extremely Georgia Southern. Hansbrough 
“It’s obvious that the Fighting to create for others. They’ve got Conference team but for a Big focused we want to be on the was the top scorer with 20 points Irish are extremely experienced a chance to be an extremely good East team. I’ll be shocked if defensive end. Obviously we have and scored his 1,000th career and have poise and savvy and team in the Big East.” they’re not in the NCAA tourna-some extremely offensively tal­unselfishness,” Liberty coach Georgia Southern coach ment.” ented people, and we just want to see BREY/page 18 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

ND advances in NCAAs 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
A simple tactical change sparked a formerly struggling No. 7/10 Notre Dame offense to a pair of wins in the NCAA tournament this weekend. The Irish defeated New Mexico 3-0 Friday night in the first round before blowing out No. 22 Southern California 4-0 Sunday afternoon. 
Irish (17-2-2) coach Randy Waldrum had seen his team uncharacteristically struggle to find the back of the net in the sec­ond half of the Big East season before they fell at home to Connecticut in the tournament quarterfinals 2-0. The loss prompted Waldrum to move sen­ior Lauren Fowlkes up to an attacking position. Fowlkes played 
see WALDRUM/page 17 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Peters dominates paint in win over Wildcats 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
The Irish kicked off the sea­son in record-breaking style on Friday afternoon, forcing 49 turnovers and 36 steals en route to a 99-48 victory over New Hampshire. Senior for­ward Devereaux Peters led the squad on both ends of the floor, scoring a career-high 23 points while adding two blocks in just 16 minutes of action. 
“I think overall Deveraux was just outstanding today, and it’s just so great to have her back,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “I mean we needed the rebounding. She did a great job on the boards as well as scoring, and I’m really, really happy with that.” 
Peters and junior guard Natalie Novosel, who finished with 11 points and a team-high seven steals, led the Irish on a 28-0 run that kept the Wildcats scoreless for 
9:44. Notre Dame was tena­cious on the defensive end, as McGraw used a full-court press in the first half to pre­vent the New Hampshire guards from setting up their offense. 
“I felt we got off to a great start, and I thought our defense was where we want-
see MCGRAW/page 18 

IRISH INSIDER 
THE 

Monday, November 15, 2010 observer Notre Dame 28, Utah 3 
Senior honors 

Seniors earn victory on Senior Day; freshman Tommy Rees throws three touchdowns 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Senior receiver Duval Kamara pulled in two touch­down catches. Senior safety Harrison Smith intercepted a first quarter pass. Senior line­backer Brian Smith led the Irish with 10 tackles. 
Throughout all of Notre Dame’s 28-3 victory over Utah Saturday, seniors led the way, just as they have for the past 11 months. 
“It’s not a moment. It’s the culmination of what we’ve been working on since December,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “You don’t just pull these out of a hat. You don’t just wake up one day and go, ‘Oh, let’s rise up today.’ It’s the consistency of approach on a day-to-day basis and how we go to work every day.” 
Notre Dame’s rout dropped the Utes to No. 23 in the BCS standings and marked the team’s first win over a ranked opponent since a 41-17 victory over No. 19 Penn State in 2006. 
“Through the last three weeks, we certainly have had a great deal of adversity that we’ve had to overcome togeth­er as a group,” Kelly said. “In those times, to steal a quote from [former Irish] coach [Ara] Parseghian, ‘Adversity elicits traits sometimes that we didn’t think we ever had.’” 

One such example of those traits could be in freshman field, Kelly said the game plan quarterback Tommy Rees, who focused on getting the game to threw for 129 yards and three the fourth quarter with the touchdowns in his first career running attack while putting start, including Rees in situ-two third ations to 
quarter strikes to Kamara to put the game out of reach.  “It’s not a moment. It’s the culmination of what we’ve been working on since  succeed. “I wasn’t going to put this game on  
“[The] sen-iors have done an unbeliev-able job all  December. You don’t just pull these out of a hat. You don’t just wake up one  T o m m y Rees. I was going to take shots  
year, whether it be preparing us, keeping us  day and go, ‘Oh, let’s rise up today.’”  when we had oppor-t u n i t i e s  
focused  —  because he’s  
especially in the past two weeks” Rees  Brian Kelly Irish coach  an accurate thrower of the foot- 
said.  “You  ball,” Kelly  
know, to send  said. “But it  
them off with  a  win is truly  was all going to be predicated  
special.”  on our ability to get this thing  

Notre Dame (5-5) relied on a into the fourth quarter and productive running game to have a presence on defense as move down the field, as sopho-well.” more running back Cierre The Irish turned in their most Wood tallied 71 yards on the complete defensive perform-ground while junior Jonas Gray ance of the season, yielding a averaged 14.7 yards on three field goal on Utah’s first pos­carries. Rather than spread the session of the game and then holding an explosive offense scoreless for more than 50 minutes. Despite coming off a 42-7 rout at the hands of TCU, Utah headed into Saturday’s matchup averaging 41 points per game. 

“I don’t think we ever had control of the line of scrim­mage,” Utes coach Kyle Whittingham said. “[Notre Dame has] big, physical guys, and they’ve got 245-pound inside linebackers that will come up and smack you. The front does a nice job with their technique and staying square.” 
In addition to Brian Smith’s 10 tackles, sophomore line­backer Manti Te’o added nine tackles and one sack as the Irish held the Utes to just 265 yards of total offense. 
“It feels great,” Brian Smith said. “I’ve been a part of Senior Days where we lost, and the seniors went out with a look on their faces — it just broke my heart. I’m glad that [this senior class] didn’t go out that way. It was a collective effort from the seniors all the way down to the freshman. It just feels great to get a win.” 
Notre Dame struggled on offense to start the game, fail­ing to convert a first down on its first three possessions of the game. With the first quarter winding down and neither team taking control of the tempo, junior cornerback Robert Blanton blocked a Utah punt, scooped up the loose ball and ran it in for a 7-3 lead. 
After watching tape, Blanton said that special teams coordi­nator Mike Elston hoped to take advantage of the small splits on the Utah line with pressure from the outside on punt return. 
“I think any time you block a punt in the game, I think we’ve all seen enough games, they generally lead to real good things for you down the road,” Kelly said. “That was a big play for us, but it was a point of emphasis as well.” 
The Irish seized the momen­tum and kept building on it, as Rees and the offense connected for three more scores, includ­ing a three-yard pass to junior receiver Michael Floyd to give the team a 14-3 lead heading into halftime. 
The special teams unit made its impact felt again in the sec­ond half, as freshman wide receiver Austin Collinsworth forced a fumble on the opening kick that was recovered by the Irish. On the ensuing play, Rees found a wide open Kamara in the corner of the end zone to extend the lead to 21-3. 
With two games remaining against Army and USC, the Irish need one more win to become eligible for a bowl game. With a victory over a ranked opponent under their belts, Kelly said that his play­ers are moving in the right direction. 
“You play it hard for four quarters,” Kelly said. “You get it to the fourth quarter and you close. My career has been built on closing games out and building the mentality of that football team. That’s what we had to make sure we got done.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

player of the game stat of the game play of the game quote of the game 
Tommy Rees 156.8 yards Robert Blanton’s six-yard blocked punt 
“We should give our fans what they

Irish quarterback return for a touchdown 
want, and show them that we 

The Irish defense held the Utah appreciate their support.” Rees may have only thrown for 129 offense 156.8 yards under its yards Notre Dame’s first touchdown came yards, but he completed 65 percent of per game average, as the Utes only on Blanton’s momentum-changer, Manti Te’o his passes and three touchdowns. gained 265 yards. giving the Irish the lead for good. sophomore linebacker 



page 2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 15, 2010 
report card 
A A A B+ 
A A A A+ 
A 

quarterbacks: Tommy Rees did exactly what was asked of him, completing 13 of his 20 passing attempts, and never putting the ball near a Utah defender. Three touchdowns don’t hurt either. 
running backs: With the exception of a few missed blocks, the running backs didn’t miss a step, even without Armando Allen, averaging more than 
5.5 yards per carry. 

receivers: Rees connected with six different receivers, even if he only had 13 comple­tions. Michael Floyd and Duval Kamara both gave Rees big windows on all three of their touchdown catches. 
offensive line: Utah sacked Rees twice, and made two other tackles in the back­field, but the offensive line did an excel­lent job of protecting a freshman quar­terback and sophomore running back. 
defensive line: Ian Williams had been the anchor of the defense all season, but Sean Cwynar and Hafis Williams filled in admirably to fill the void, allowing the rest of the defense to swarm the ball. 
linebackers: Utah’s lack of a productive running game Saturday was largely due to the aggressive play of the linebackers, led by Brian Smith and Manti Te’o, com­bining for 19 tackles. 
defensive backs: Utah attempted four 
fourth down conversions, and on three 
of those, an Irish defensive back either 
broke up the pass, or stopped the Utes 
short of the first down. 

special teams: Robert Blanton’s punt 
block return for a touchdown 
changed the dynamic of the game, 
and Ben Turk consistently put the 
Utes in poor field position. 
coaching: Lacking his starting quarterback and three starters at the skill positions, Brian Kelly devised a gameplan that worked to perfection. Bob Diaco’s defense performed excellently as well. 
3.96 

overall: For a team coming off two disappointing losses, and missing numerous players, Notre Dame could not have played a more complete game. 
adding up the numbers 
Of the 36 seniors, 21 saw playing time Saturday, including walk-ons Brian Castello, Patrick 
21
Coughlin, Dan Franco and Michael Garcia. 

Notre Dame snapped a 45-game streak in which 45 Utah scored more than three points, a streak stretching back to Sept. 22, 2007. 
The Irish defense rushed Utes quarterback Jordan Wynn eight times, a season high. The previous 
8
high was five against Western Michigan. 

25 
Michael Floyd’s touchdown reception was his 25th in only 27 career games. He now ranks third on the all-time Irish receiving list. 
Notre Dame has received the opening kickoff in 10all 10 games this season 
3 
Senior safety Harrison Smith intercepted Wynn 
in the first quarter. The pick was Smith’s third of the season, and of his career. 
Freshman quarterback Tommy Rees complet­ed 13 passes for 129 yards, yielding an aver­
9.9 
age of 9.9 yards per completion. 

Utah ran 69 plays, compared to Notre Dame’s 49 49, but the Irish averaged 5.2 yards per play, compared to the Utes’ 3.8 
Saturday’s celebration started slowly. Fittingly, the seniors set the tone, and everyone else followed suit. 
First, the yellow-coated ushers opened one stairwell for the Class of 2011 to run down to the field. 
Then, a junior dressed as a cow leapt out of the stands near the 10-yard line. As he crossed the painted sideline to reach the play­ing field, an usher and two members of the Indiana State Police tore Douglas Farmer his costumed head off to pre-

Sports Editor
vent him from going further. 
If the cow had waited 60 seconds, he could have joined the juniors in the lowest rows of Section 30, who convinced the ushers they were seniors, and took to the field in rowdy, hat-waving fashion. 
The rest of the junior class followed without hesitation. Before long, wave after wave of underclassmen found their way to the corner of the end zone. 
For the previous three hours, the seniors on the playing field led Notre Dame in its rout over Utah. Apparently, unbeknownst to the rest of the world, these seniors had been leading the Irish for a few weeks now. 
“I don’t want to get too philosophical other than to say that our seniors real­ly provided great leadership over the past few weeks, and it was evident even in our bye week,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “That’s a time where generally at 4-5, seniors check out.” 
All season long, the Irish appeared to lack leaders on the field. By naming captains on a game-by-game basis, it can be argued Kelly robbed the team of designated leadership. 
But, when a team loses two games it expected to win, someone within the team must step up, designation or no designation. Apparently, these seniors did so. They set the tone. 
Then junior cornerback Robert Blanton provided proof that the proper tone can yield results, giving Notre Dame both the lead and the momen­tum with his blocked punt and subse­quent return for a touchdown. 
Sophomore running back Cierre Wood started to evade tacklers once he sensed a hint of Utah discouragement. 
Freshman quarterback Tommy Rees shook off his initial jitters in his first career start once he had a lead to work with. Each of his three touch­down passes was thrown with preci­sion accuracy, and the Irish, freshman through seniors, were rolling. 
“It was a collective effort from the seniors all the way down to the fresh­man,” said senior linebacker Brian Smith, who led the Irish with 10 tack­les to close his career at Notre Dame Stadium. “It just feels great to get a win today.” 
The tone set by the seniors resonated most loudly with the freshmen. In addi­tion to Rees’ performance, Bennett Jackson energized the crowd with 53 return yards on only two kickoffs, including a run to the Notre Dame 44­yard line to open the game. Austin Collinsworth and Daniel Smith collabo­rated to force and recover a fumble, respectively, on the opening kickoff of the second half. Even when junior line­backer Darius Fleming left the game with a concussion after only a handful of plays, freshman Prince Shembo filled in with five tackles, two quarter­back hurries and one sack. 
“[Getting the seniors a win] was our number one goal,” Rees said. “The seniors have done an unbelievable job all year. Whether it be preparing us, keeping us focused, especially in the last two weeks. To send them off with a win is truly special.” 
There it is again — the seniors set the tone for the rest of the Irish, same as the Class of 2011 as a whole, break­ing past the ushers first, only to wait for the rest of the student body to join them. 
In reality, the past four years have included more disappointment than satisfaction for this team’s 36 seniors. Yet, by leading the way to Notre Dame’s biggest win since a victory over No. 3 Michigan in 2005, they set the stage for the coming years. Last week, senior receiver Duval Kamara — two touchdown receptions Saturday — said the strife of the past will be worth­while, once Notre Dame reaches a national championship, and he can say he “was part of building that.” 
Notre Dame took a big step toward that lofty goal Saturday. The seniors, the same ones who have suffered through a career 20-26 regular season record, provided the beginning push which led to that big step. 
As senior safety Harrison Smith said after recording his third career inter­ception: “Leaving [Notre Dame Stadium] with a win is like turning the page.” 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 


Seniors set tone; others take note 

Monday, November 15, 2010 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Rees’ efficiencycarries Irishin win 

start, Rees completed 13-of-20 passes for 129 yards and three touchdowns. 
scoring summary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
ND  7  7  14  0  28  
UTAH  3  0  0  0  3  

First quarter 
Notre Dame 0, Utah 3 
Joe Phillips 46-yard field goal with 8:31 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 24 yards, 4:39 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 7, Utah 3 
Robert Blanton six-yard blocked punt return (David Ruffer kick) with 2:01 remaining. 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 14, Utah 3 
Michael Floyd three-yard pass from Tommy Rees (Ruffer kick) with 12:25 remaining. Drive: 3 plays, 61 yards, 1:43 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 21, Utah 3 
Duval Kamara 26-yard pass from Rees (Ruffer kick) with 14:47 remaining. Drive: 1 plays, 26 yard, 0:13 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 28, Utah 3 
Kamara 12-yard pass from Rees (Ruffer kick) with 9:09 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 63 yards, 2:17 elapsed. 
SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer 

Irish freshman quarterback Tommy Rees turns to hand the ball off to senior running back Robert Hughes. In his first career 
statistics 
Rushing Yards 

Passing Yards 

Penalty Yards 

Time of Possession 

Time of Possession 



passing 
Rees 13-20-129 Wynn 24-39-194 

rushing  
Wood  19-80  Asiata  13-48  
Gray  3-44  Wide  8-21  
Hughes  4-21  Dunn  4-14  
Rees  2- -7  Wynn  3- -3  
receiving  
Floyd  4-39  Smithson  4-44  
Kamara  2-38  Brooks  4-33  
Wood  2-25  Christopher  4-32  
Eifert  2-15  Moeai  1-25  
Hughes  2-7  Asiata  4-23  
Toma  1-5  Wide  5-17  
Moala  1-11  
Matthews  1-9  

By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 

In his 11 months on campus, Irish freshman quarterback Tommy Rees has undoubtedly heard all the names of Notre Dame’s quarterbacking leg­ends — Bertelli, Lujack, Theismann, Montana and Quinn. 
Of all those names, and the many others, none accomplished Rees’ feat of throwing three touchdown passes in his first career start Saturday. 
“You know, in the beginning running out there you get [butterflies], but all positive butterflies,” Rees said. “You’re anxious to play, and once the first series comes, they’re all gone.” 
Rees turned in an efficient perform­ance in his starting debut, throwing for 129 yards on 13-of-20 passing. Though the statistics did not compare with Rees’ 400-yard plus performance in relief of injured starter Dayne Crist during Notre Dame’s 28-27 loss to Tulsa on Oct. 30, Irish coach Brian Kelly said Rees did a good job within the designed game plan in beating No. 14 Utah 28-3. 
“Tommy is a young man that really understands the game of football,” Kelly said. “Whether you’re in the spread and five wides or you’re run­ning tackle pull or power, which we ran probably more times than I think we’ve run power here in a long time, he can handle the adjustments that are made. We felt the game plan was such that he could handle what we gave them.” 
Rees and the rest of the Notre Dame offense got off to a slow start, as an early stop on fourth down and a bat-ted-down pass highlighted a first quar­ter in which Notre Dame struggled to move the ball. Rees said he needed some time to get acclimated to the game. 
“Obviously the first couple of drives weren’t that great for us offensively, so it kind of just happened that way,” Rees said. “Just going with the pace of the game, and things started clicking there. That blocked punt for a touch­down really helped the offense out because we were struggling, and jump-started the whole sideline and the team. From that point on we started rolling.” 
Notre Dame’s — and subsequently Rees’ — success offensively was built around a consistent running game and a passing game that gave Rees a num­ber of high percentage throws in order to minimize turnovers. Utah coach Kyle Whittingham said Notre Dame’s game plan put Rees in position to suc­ceed. 
“I think they did a nice job with the freshman quarterback … Gave him not too much on his plate. Enough to move the football and get the points they needed to win the football game,” Whittingham said. “They did a great job of putting him in situations to suc­ceed. They didn’t ask a bunch of throws of him down the field. When they did, they did a nice job.” 
Rees’ rare forays into the vertical passing game resulted in two touch­downs to senior wide receiver Duval Kamara, as the senior caught Rees’ second and third touchdowns of the day. 
Rees said he has built a rapport with Kamara in practice all season. 
“Throughout the bulk of the season I’ve been working with Duval,” Rees said. “So we have a good chemistry and connection, and he’s worked extremely hard to put himself in this position.” 
After his stellar debut, the freshman will move forward in the starting quar­terback role and prepare for his sec­ond start. But he will not soon forget his debut. 
“I couldn’t be happier,” Rees said. “Getting the win is the most important thing. To send the seniors off I’m ecstatic.” 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 

Senior Day victory brings Notre Dame relief 
have beaten in a Senior Day  The touchdown was not  career. Kamara had previ- 
By CHRIS ALLEN  
game since the 1987 season,  the first of Blanton’s career,  ously hauled in two touch- 
Sports Writer when they disposed of No.  however, as he returned an  downs against Navy in 2007.  
10 Alabama. The win also  interception to the end zone  “It felt amazing [to catch  
Saturday’s 28-3 victory moved the all-time mark for  in a 2008 game against  two TD passes],” Kamara  
over Utah represented the Notre Dame in Senior Day  Purdue.  said. “I haven’t been in the  
first Notre Dame win on games against ranked oppo­ end zone in a while in this  
Senior Day since 2007, nents to 16-11.  Duval finds the end zone  stadium.”  
when Notre Dame beat  Senior wide receiver Duval  Kamara’s heavy playing  
Duke 28-7. With the win, Blanton’s big play  Kamara, who set Notre  time was partly the result of  
the Irish improve to 92-24-4 Junior cornerback Robert  Dame freshman records for  an injury to freshman wide  
all time in Senior Day Blanton’s blocked punt and  catches and touchdown  receiver TJ Jones, who had  
games. subsequent touchdown in  catches in 2007 but has  been playing ahead of  
“The team needed [a win] the first quarter was the  struggled to find consistent  Kamara for a majority of the  
badly,” senior cornerback first blocked punt for Notre  production since, recorded  season.  
Gary Gray said. “But mostly Dame since the Hawaii Bowl  two touchdowns in his final  “[Jones] got injured during  
for the seniors because it is in 2008. The last Irish play- game at Notre Dame  the week. It was pretty  
our last chance playing in er to return a blocked punt  Stadium. Kamara’s 26-yard  physical the last ten days of  
[Notre Dame Stadium]. for a touchdown was Toryan  reception in the early  practice,” Kelly said. “He’s a  
Since I’ve been here we Smith, who did so in a Nov.  moments of the second half  tough kid, but he got banged  
haven’t beaten a ranked 15, 2008 game against  was his first touchdown  up a little bit. We just didn’t  
team. Just for the seniors to Navy.  since 2009 against  think he could go. We want- 
go out with a win is great.” “We worked really hard  Washington State. When he  ed to make sure that he’s  
The Utes — who came into this week on getting a punt,”  grabbed a 12-yard pass  healthy moving forward.”  
the game ranked No. 14 — Irish coach Brian Kelly said.  minutes later, he completed  
represented the highest­“That was something we  a multiple-touchdown effort  Contact Chris Allen at  
ranked opponent the Irish talked about, let’s get one.”  for the second time in his  callen10@nd.edu  

page 4 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Monday, November 15, 2010 



Senior Day upset 
Facing a top-20 opponent for the second time this season, the Irish performed much better against No. 14 Utah than they did earlier in the season against Stanford. Seniors led the way for Notre Dame during its 28-3 victory Saturday. Senior linebacker Brian Smith led the team with 10 tackles while senior receiver Duval Kamara pulled in his first two touchdowns in more than a year. Senior running back Robert Hughes also added in 28 total yards. Freshman quarterback Tommy Rees also connected with junior receiver Michael Floyd for a touchdown in the second quarter. Junior cornerback Robert Blanton started the Irish scoring with a blocked punt return for a touchdown in the first quarter. 





Clockwise from top: Irish coach Brian Kelly talks with quarterback Tommy Rees; receiver Michael Floyd pulls in a pass from Rees; cornerback Robert Blanton, 12, celebrates with teammates after his blocked punt return for a touchdown; defensive end Kapron Lewis-Moore deflects a pass; running back Cierre Wood finds a hole for a gain. 





