the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Williamstoaddressgraduates 
NBC News anchor will hightlight 2010 Commencement 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
NBC Nightly News anchor Brian Williams will deliver the 2010 Commencement address, University spokesman Dennis Brown told The Observer. 
In a release given exclusively to The Observer, University President Fr. John Jenkins expressed his excitement that Williams accepted the University’s invitation. 
“Mr. Williams is one of this country’s most respected and trusted journalists, and we are absolutely delighted that he has accepted our invitation,” Jenkins said. “He has tremen­dous insight into the current state of our world, and I know his perspectives will be of great interest to our graduating Class of 2010.” 
Williams is the managing edi­tor of NBC Nightly News and has covered the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, the War in 
see WILLIAMS/page 4 




A father’s quest 
Alum returns for advance screening of film 
By JENN METZ 
News Writer 
“How could you not?” 

John Crowley is very clear about one thing: though deemed “extraordinary,” his measures to save his children were what any other parent would do. 
After his two youngest children — Megan, 13, and Patrick, 11 

— were diagnosed with a rare and often fatal genetic disease, Crowley left his secure job in the hopes of developing a treatment — and a cure. 
Megan and Patrick suffer from Pompe Disease, caused by mutations to the gene that makes the enzyme needing to break down glycogen, a stored form of sugar. The excessive amounts of glycogen accumu­late in the body and disable the heart and skeletal muscles. The Crowley’s eldest son, John, 15, does not have the disease. 

For Megan and Patrick, that meant wheelchairs, trouble breathing and talking clearly, and weakened muscles. For Crowley, the prognosis of the life-threatening condition meant taking the lead in the quest for the cure. 
A biotech firm CEO and 1992 Notre Dame Law School alum­nus, Crowley returns to the University campus along with his wife, Aileen, tonight for a preview screening of the film “Extraordinary Measures” (CBS Films), based on the book by Geeta Anand, a Pulitzer Prize-winning Wall Street Journal reporter, that chroni­cles his family’s story. 
“I hate to call it a story, it’s our life, just life,” he said. 
A New Jersey native and the son of a police officer, Crowley 
see CROWLEY/page 6 
SMCteams with non­profits for internships 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s Cross Currents Program — an advising program designed to help students identify their calling and course of study as well as their career paths — is trying a different approach to coordinate summer internships at non-profits organizations. 
Tricia Dunton, assistant direc­tor of the Career Crossings Office (CCO), said the program selected five organizations out of pool of 10 to team up with. The Family Justice Center of St. Joseph County, the Literacy Council of St. Joseph County, the Logan Center, the Northern Indiana Cancer Research Consortium and the Suicide Prevention Council of St. Joseph County are currently meeting with the Cross Currents Program for training sessions to learn how to create successful internships for stu­dents. 
see INTERNSHIP/page 6 

Ok Go releases video with ND Band 
‘This Too Shall Pass’ premieres; participants pleased with results, excited to see finished version 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 

The music group OK Go released the music video for their single “This Too Shall Pass,” fea­turing members of the Notre Dame Marching Band, on Jan. 12, according to the group’s Web site. 
Members of the Notre Dame Marching Band were excited to see the finished version of the music video. 
“Though we got to see an early version of the video after we were done filming, it was great to see the finished product,” sophomore and piccolo player Alice Harada said. “It’s a really creative idea and I’m glad it turned out as well as it did.” 
Junior and trombonist Andrew Jones was also satisfied with the outcome. 
“I have seen the finished video a few times, and I am very happy with it,” Jones said. “I’m relieved to see that our days of work weren’t for nothing, and the video was even better than I expected.” 
OK Go is known for its creative music videos filmed in a single take, including the popular “OK Go on Treadmills” for the song “Here It Goes Again.” 
Drum major and senior Aaron Hernandez was satisfied with the final video. 
“I thought it came out really well,” Hernandez said. “I’m pleased on how they edited it. They couldn’t edit the video a lot 
— because it was one continuous take — but the sound and the particular take that they chose I really enjoyed.” 
Hernandez said the near week of production during last semes­ter’s Fall Break was long and painstaking, but made bearable by friends. 
“On Sunday (of Fall Break), just a few of us were in the field to fig­ure out where to go. Monday started rehearsals,” Hernandez said. “Tuesday and Wednesday were figuring out what to do. The 
see OK GO/page 4 
AlumnaelaunchvolunteerprograminGuatemala 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 

Recent Notre Dame graduates founded HANDS Organization 
— a volunteering-oriented ven­ture based in the United States and Guatemala — co-founder, director and 2008 graduate Mariana Diaz said. 
“We incorporated HANDS in Indiana in February 2009. Along the way, we participated in the Notre Dame Business Competition, we made it to the finals which helped us develop our model,” Diaz said. “As we received a lot of support, when the girls graduated, we decided to open a branch in Guatemala to promote that culture of vol­unteerism that exists in other countries. We incorporated in July 2009 and inaugurated the branch last December.” 
HANDS has its roots both at Notre Dame and the country of Guatemala — all three of its founders attended the University and are Guatemalan. 
“The organization was legally 
see HANDS/page 6 
Photo Courtesy of Mariana Diaz Maria Cristina Bosch (left), Mariana Diaz (center) and StephanieFairhurst (right) at the inauguration of the HANDS branch in Guatemala. 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER ND launches campus tour page 3  Women’s basketball College Gameday page 20  Ke$ha review page 10  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Thursday, January 14, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Loyal Coach Kelly 
“Lane Kiffin … Bobby Petrino, Rich Rodriguez, Brian Kelly and Nick Saban — all top-notch coaches whose combined lies could outweigh an ocean liner,” seethed ESPN.com’s (and Tennessee graduate) Gene Wojciechowski. 
In an article describing Kiffin as “the most disgusting­ly hypocritical” coach in college sports, CBSsports.com’s Mike Freeman also mentioned Petrino, Rodriguez, Saban, John Calipari and Allan Joseph Brian Kelly. 

“Is Carroll a 

Sports Wire 
weasel coach, joining 

Editor
Rich Rodriguez, Nick Saban, Bobby Petrino and Brian Kelly as weasels who walked the instant dollars were waved,” ESPN.com colum­nist Gregg Easterbrook rhetorically asked after Pete Carroll’s hire by the Seahawks. 
In addition to the columns and articles dismembering Kiffin for leaving Tennessee at a bad time after only 14 months, Internet message boards and dis­cussion forums are afire with vitriol directed at USC’s new coach. In seemingly every opinion, the writer has drawn a comparison from Kiffin to other “scum­bag” coaches, including our new hire, Brian Kelly. 
As a Notre Dame fan who stopped everything to watch Kelly’s introductory press conference –— and loved what he said — this is discomforting, to say the least. Is Kelly no better than Saban, who jumped from LSU to the NFL to Alabama, an LSU rival in three years? Is he no bet­ter than Petrino, who hung a “Finish” sign in the Falcons’ locker room and then left without finishing the regular season? Is he no better than Rodriguez, who –— well, let’s not get into the scUMbag-in­chief. 
I sure hope not, and I’m sure you agree with me on that. Luckily, there’s reason to hope. Kelly’s teams at any level have not been accused of NCAA violations, and he took a job that was in every way better than his previous job. The other coaches? Not the case. This has been Kelly’s dream job since his childhood. Only Kiffin can say he was leaving for his dream job — but he only developed that “dream” as a member of Carroll’s coaching staff less than ten years ago. In addition, Notre Dame has never had a true “weasel coach” — the requirements for the job here to a large extent prevent that. 
But yet, that nagging feeling won’t go away. 
“Kelly bolted from Central Michigan after three years because money was waved, now bolts from Cincinnati after three years because money was waved. Does anyone seriously think he won’t shaft Notre Dame if money is waved again? Kelly misled his Cincinnati players, then abandoned them the instant it bene­fited him. He’s a promise-breaker. Notre Dame, that’s the kind of person you want running your program,” asked Easterbrook. For now, let’s reserve judg­ment till all is said and done. I’m going to hope for the best, and I’m going to sup­port Coach Kelly 100 percent because I do believe that he’ll be loyal to this school. But, on the unfortunate chance that the Internet critics are right, let’s not act like we didn’t see it coming. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT WAS T E  IG LIG T OF YOUR BREAK? 







Albert Garcia  Caitlin Nichols  Brian Schwartze  Cara Norton  Patrick Lane  
sophomore  junior  freshman  junior  junior  
O’Neill  Pangborn  Fisher  Cavanaugh  off campus  
“Hanging out  “Santa gave my  “Seeing ‘Avatar’  “New Year’s  “Snowboarding.”  
with friends.”  family two  twice, duh.”  Eve.”  
sheep for  

Christmas.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Students constructed a snowman on South Quad Wednesday. According to the South Bend Tribune, St. Joseph County experienced 25.1 inches of snowfall dur­ing the month of January. 
OFFBEAT 

Rescuer led to 94-year-old unconscious man by dog 
PINE CITY, Minn. — Police credit a 15-year-old German Shorthaired dog with saving the life of an elderly, unconscious man in Pine City. Brett Grinde said he took Effie out for their usual walk on Monday evening, but with­in a couple minutes she started pulling on the leash, wanting to go in a different direction. 
Effie then took off run­ning, leading Grinde to a neighbor's house where a 94-year-old man was on face down on the drive­way. The dog started lick­ing the man's face. Grinde called 911, then started CPR. 
KARE-TV reported the eldery man, William Lepsch, regained con­sciousness and is in seri­ous condition at North Memorial Medical Center. 
Man plans to convert home into duplex,alarms neighbors 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. — Residents in a Knoxville’s wealthy Sequoyah Hills neighborhood are alarmed that a man wants to con­vert his home into a duplex and run a music studio and fertility service out of it. The Knoxville News Sentinel reported David Perkins is asking the Metropolitan Planning Commission to allow the change, saying he wants to operate businesses that would involve music les­sons and the coordinating of two fertility services. 
“We are very much opposed to all of this,” said Jim Bletner, board member of the Kingston Pike Sequoyah Hills Association., who said members would appear before the commis­sion on Thursday to speak against Perkins’ proposal. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Friday Saturday 

IN BRIEF 
An exhibit titled “New Faces” will be held in the Isis Gallery in O’Shaugnessy Hall. The exhibit will be open all day today. Admission is free. 
Daily Mass will be held in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 
11:30 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. today. 
A lecture titled “Extra-System Electoral Volatility” will begin at 
4:30 p.m. today. The lecture will be held in C-103 in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
An Opus Hall information ses­sion will be held at 5 p.m. today. The session will be held in the Stapleton Lounge in LeMans Hall at Saint Mary’s College. 
AcousticCafe will be held at 10 
p.m. today. AcousticCafe will fea­ture live student musical perform­ances and will be held in the LaFortune basement. Admission is free. 
The Student Union Board will present the movie “The Box” today at 10 p.m. The movie will be shown in 101 DeBartolo Hall. Admission is $3. 
The Taste of the States will begin at 10 p.m. and will feature free food from across the country. It will be held in the LaFortune Ballroom, the Dooley Room and the Sorin Room. Admission is free. 
The film “Extraordinary Measures” will be held today at 
6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. in the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. To reserve free tickets visit performingarts.nd.edu. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to 

Sunday Monday 

Atlanta 57 / 28 Boston 34 / 27 Chicago 36 / 29 Denver 45 / 30 Houston 63 / 52 Los Angeles 72 / 46 Minneapolis 34 / 14 New York 39 / 31 Philadelphia 42 / 30 Phoenix 70 / 46 Seattle 51 / 46 St. Louis 43 / 34 Tampa 69 / 51 Washington 51 / 46 
Thursday, January 14, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
ND launches online campus tour 
Student aids Peace 
By CASEY KENNY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame’s recent launch of an online virtual campus tour allows students, alumni and visi­tors alike to experience the architecture, beauty and spirit of the University campus. 
The virtual tour on the University Web site features many prominent campus loca­tions using multimedia tech­niques to display life at Notre Dame. 
The tour includes academic buildings, places of worship, residence halls, student social facilities and athletic facilities, ranging from DeBartolo Hall to Rolfs Sports and Recreational Center to the new Ryan Hall. 
Descriptions of the landmarks and locations are integrated with interior and exterior pho­tos, as well as student-led video tours. 
“Not everyone can visit cam­pus as often as they would like,” Beth Grisoli of AgencyND said. 


“This virtual tour brings the spirit of Notre Dame to them.” 
The virtual tour features the work of University pho­tographer Matthew Cashore, including his 360-degree panoramic photos of such landmarks as the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes and a packed ing together at the perfect time. 
“I had been experimenting with panoramas for several weeks before I knew about the Virtual Tour project and it seemed like a perfect fit to add 

“It’s a great idea that Notre Dame is trying to play up the visuals of Notre Dame since they are one of the Universiy’s greatest assets.” 
Rob Steward junior 
them to the mix of visual ele­ments,” Cashore said. “I think of places that lend themselves well to a 360-degree view, such as the Main Building rotunda, or other campus locations that people can’t easily get to but would like to experience, such as the inside of the locker room.” 

Institute program 
By SARAH MAYER 
News Writer 

Saint Mary’s College sophomore Cat Cleary co-facilitated the “Women’s Issues in the Urban Environment” conference run out of the Indianapolis Peace Institute in Indianapolis, Ind. over Winter Break 
The pro­gram is designed to be a service-learning experience that incorpo­rates direct service, visits to non­profit organizations and guest speakers. 
The week-long program explored issues affecting women’s lives in the city of Indianapolis — including domestic violence, homelessness, HIV and STIs, and immigration. 
Sixteen other students attended the conference from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, Saint Rose College in Albany, NY. Cleary was the only Saint Mary’s attendee. 
Due to her prior experience, Cleary helped run the conference. 
“I had taken a similar alterna­tive break trip through the Indianapolis Peace Institute last Spring Break and had done a service trip over Thanksgiving,” Cleary said. “I was familiar with the organization.” 
Cleary said every time she leaves these conferences she feels more passionate and energized about women’s issues. Her first trip had a major impact on choos­ing to be a Women’s Studies major, which she is designing her­self at the College. 

“Now that I have taken it a sec­ond time, I am starting to focus more on my career and where my major and interests can take me,” Cleary said. 
Cleary said it is also nice she gets to return to Saint Mary’s, an all-female environment and she comes back with ideas to enhance the College. 
“Some of my many ideas are to start a Peace Garden on campus, develop a women’s empowerment group and have a tampon and pad drive for the inmates at the Indiana Women’s Prison,” Cleary said. 
Also off campus, she is working to challenge gender roles in the primary grades by encouraging girls to participate in more mascu­line activities. 
“Currently, I am helping put on a ‘Girl Power Workshop’ at Coquillard Primary Center — a Title I school — to empower third and fourth grade girls to think about and get interested in sci­ence,” Cleary said. 
She says everywhere she goes she feels she is a representative of Saint Mary’s but at the conference especially it was interesting to receive insight into other colleges. 
“These trips have made me increasingly more aware of how fortunate and blessed I am to live the life that I do,” Cleary said. “They reignite my passion for social justice and cause me to think critically about the world I live in.” 
Contact Sarah Mayer at smayer01@saintmarys.edu 
Notre Dame Stadium as the Irish prepared to receive a game’s opening kick. 
According to Cashore, the online tour is a result of a need and an idea for a solution com-
The response to the Web site has been positive and the University plans to continually update it with new photos and features. 
“The site is dynamic and we aim to add interactive elements to the site in the future, such as a way to post one’s own memo­ries about locations,” Grisoli said. “People are quite excited about this new feature and we hope it will continue to conjure up feelings that express the beauty and spirit of campus.” 

Student feedback about the virtual tour matches Grisoli’s enthusiasm. 
“I really like the 360-degree panoramas,” sophomore Kevin Brainard said. “They give a complete view of the locations and allow you to really explore them.” 
Junior Rob Steward believes the online tour could also help with recruiting. 
“It’s a great idea that Notre Dame is trying to play up the visuals of Notre Dame since they are one of the University’s great­est assets,” he said. 
Contact Casey Kenny at ckenny@nd.edu 


Opportunity available for research students 
Special to The Observer 

Students looking for an oppor­tunity to showcase their statisti­cal research as undergraduates 
— 
and who want to stand out from the crowd after graduation 

— 
may want to take a sugges­tion from Thomas Foote: submit a paper for the University of Notre Dame’s Bernoulli Awards. 


Not only did Foote write the paper that won the 2009 first prize, but he credits that research experience with help­ing him develop the technical and analytical skills he now uses as an investment banking analyst for BMO Capital Markets in Chicago. 
The competition is open to undergraduates of any major across campus. 
“I would absolutely encourage people to enter the competi­tion,” said Foote, a 2009 Notre Dame graduate who earned bachelor’s degrees in economics and finance. “It’s very reward­ing and a great capstone experi­ence to your time at Notre Dame.” 
The Bernoulli Awards aim to encourage research among undergraduates that is worthy of being published in peer-reviewed journals, explains Richard Jensen, chair of the Department of Economics and Econometrics. Each year, the competition’s panel of judges decides how many papers — if any — earn the available prizes, which include: 
u First prize and $5,000 for a student whose paper meets the standards required for submis­sion to a leading peer-reviewed journal; 
u Second prize and $2,500 for a student whose paper could be submitted to such a journal after revision; 
u And honorable mention and $1,000 for a student whose paper, while perhaps not pub­lishable in a leading journal, still exceeds the level of research expected from a senior thesis. 
The goal, Jensen says, is to push students to learn how to conduct statistical research, a skill that will pay dividends in a variety of fields, including busi­ness, engineering and mathe­matics, as well as the sciences and social sciences. 
The competition is sponsored by an alumnus whose statistical research landed him a job immediately after graduation — even amidst an economic reces­sion. 
“The anonymous donor who funds these awards uses statisti­cal analysis in his own financial management firm,” Jensen said. “Many businesses want students who have developed skills in statistical analysis, and students cannot succeed in graduate pro­grams in many disciplines with­out these skills.” 
page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 14, 2010 
ImproveND survey to address issues 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
The Office of Strategic Planning and Institutional Research is con­ducting the inaugural ImproveND survey to effectively address the many aspects of campus life at Notre Dame. The survey includes both student input on campus life and contributions from more than 30 service-providing cam­pus units. 
The survey — which students can complete through Jan. 29 — includes a wide variety of ques­is that the University consults the student body and will have plans of action in mind after the survey is completed.” 

Schmidt also said while the sur­vey is an honest evaluation of things that need improvement, it also highlights positive aspects of campus life, such as the Career Center and Food Services. 
According to Sama, once the survey ends, the results will be reviewed during the spring semester with the campus units involved. These units will collabo­rate during spring and summer to address the results with 
tions pertaining to nearly all aspects of cam­pus life. In addi­ “The goal of ImproveND is to comprehensively assess the effectiveness  action plans for those areas that call for improvement.  
tion, these ques­ of internal co-curricular  Both Schmidt  
tions vary for undergraduate, graduate and professional stu­ and extra-curricular services provided to Notre Dame students.”  and Sama said all issues that need improve­ment would  
dents  at  the  have to be thor- 
U n i v e r s i t y . Comment boxes are also provid­ed at the end of  Julie Sama administrator of the survey project  oughly consid­ered on the bases of feasi­bility, financial  

the survey so students can express their unique views and opinions on the topics covered by the survey and on any part of campus life. 
“The goal of ImproveND is to comprehensively assess the effec­tiveness of internal co-curricular and extra-curricular services pro­vided to Notre Dame students,” Julia Sama, the administrator who coordinated the survey proj­ect, said. “As a result of the sur­vey, we anticipate confirming areas of strength and identifying opportunities for improvement related to campus services.” 
The creators of the survey con­sulted with nearly every campus unit that provides services to stu­dents, including Admissions, the Office of Alcohol & Drug Education, Athletics, Campus Ministry, the Career Center, possibility and 

general need. Once these areas are addressed, the University and the campus units involved in the survey will be able to proactively use the results of the survey to improve campus life. 
There is no set timeline in which this change will occur because the survey results will be analyzed in terms of trends and segmented groups, such as male responses and female responses or responses from students living on and off campus. 
The final results will not be available until later in the semes­ter. 
The ultimate impact and effec­tiveness of the survey depends primarily on student responses. 
Ideally, the organizers hope the entire student population will 

“We truly hope to see as 
the Center for Social Concerns, high a percentage Financial Aid, 
participation as
Food Services, 

possible, and at a
Health Services, the Provost, minimum are hoping for Residence Life & 
a sizable majority of
Housing and 

students to provide
many other important cam-their feedback on the pus entities. survey.” Student sug­gestions and 
Julie Sama
complaints were also heavily con-administrator of the sidered in the survey project 
creation of the survey. Any issues that had been brought to the attention of the University and the survey’s creators were translated into questions on the survey. 
In fact, the survey had to be condensed due to the large num­ber of questions it included. 
“Student opinion is sincerely valued by all of the campus units providing [services],” Sama said. “All of the units are eager to hear what elements of their services are working and which ones could benefit from improvement.” 
Student body president Grant Schmidt noted the survey is simi­lar to last year’s student census, but this survey is a much bigger deal and focuses more heavily on student services on campus. 
“My job is to represent the con­cern of students by taking their suggestions and questions,” Schmidt said. “The biggest thing take the survey. So far, 33 per­cent of under­graduates and 

46.5 percent of law students have completed the survey. Graduate stu­dents received their survey invitation this week. 
“We truly hope to see as high a percent­age participa­tion as possible, and at a mini­mum are hop­
ing for a sizable majority of stu­dents to provide their feedback on the survey,” Sama said. 
In order to encourage students to complete the survey, several prize incentives are being offered, such as $500 off of textbook pur­chases, gift cards and a tour of Notre Dame Stadium. The resi­dence hall with the highest sur­vey participation rate will win the opportunity to use the Purcell Pavilion for a dance or hall event later in the year, free of rental charges. 
Once a student completes the survey, he or she is automatically eligible to win any of the afore­mentioned prizes. 
Students can visit improve.nd.edu for more infor­mation about the survey. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
Williams 
continued from page 1 

Iraq and the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
His coverage of the devasta­tion of Hurricane Katrina earned him praise and several awards. 
The New York Times described his coverage of the hurricane’s impact as “a defining moment as a network reporter and anchor.” 
He joined NBC news in 1993 after working for seven years as a correspondent and anchor for CBS news, where he covered the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989. 
Williams is not the first jour­nalist to deliver the Notre Dame Commencement address. Tom Brokaw gave the address in 1993 and Tim Russert spoke to the Class of 2002. William F. Buckley Jr. delivered the Commencement address in 1978 and Mark 
OK Go 
continued from page 1 

video wasn’t set – it was a differ­ent experience, creating it as we went along.” 
Hernandez was part of the cre­ative experience when they changed his role in the video. 
“I was originally going to be on a ladder, but Damien (Kulash, the lead singer of OK Go) liked me going into the camera,” Hernandez said. “That decision was made on Wednesday. On Thursday we had over 20 takes. Despite all of that, being around friends was what made it fun.” 
Harada also thought rehearsals were tedious. 
“My favorite time was when we actually started going through the whole video and filming,” Harada Shields in 1997. 
President Barack Obama delivered last year’s Commencement speech, an invitation that generated nationwide controversy regarding the president’s views on abortion. 
Williams has received sever­al awards for anchoring and reporting, including four Edward R. Murrow awards, five Emmy Awards, the duPont-Columbia University Award, the 2009 Walter Cronkite Award for Excellence in Journalism and the indus­try’s highest honor, the George Foster Peabody Award. 
Early in his career at NBC, Williams was named chief White House correspondent and covered the Clinton administration. 
In 2003, Williams was the first NBC News correspondent to reach Baghdad after the United States invaded the city. A veteran of Middle East cov­erage, he reported on the Iraqi elections in 2005. 
said. “The early parts of the process seemed slow at times because there were a lot of details to figure out and a lot of time spent waiting, so getting to see all the planning come togeth­er when we filmed was exciting.” 
“I really enjoyed working with the mix of people who took part in the video,” Theresa Gildner, junior and alto saxophone player, said. “I got to know some Band members I never had met before, and working with the elemen­tary-aged kids was a lot of fun. Their enthusiasm for the whole project really added to the experi­ence, especially toward the end when we were all tired after so many takes.” 
“My favorite part of the produc­tion was being able to work with a Grammy-winning band and video team,” Jones said. “The members of OK Go were very 
He has also worked in Africa, covering issues such as AIDS, poverty and disease. 
Williams was one of the first network evening anchors to respond to the 2005 tsunami in Indonesia, where he related recovery and relief efforts. He also covered the deaths of Princess Diana and John F. Kennedy Jr., as well as the funeral of Pope John Paul II. 
Currently, Williams is cover­ing the destruction in Haiti after Wednesday’s earth­quake. 
He is a frequent guest on “The Daily Show with Jon Stewart,” “The Tonight Show,” “Late Night with Jimmy Fallon” and “The Late Show with David Letterman,” and has made cameo appearances on NBC’s “30 Rock.) 
Williams attended George Washington University and the Catholic University of America. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

approachable and fun to collabo­rate with. After seeing the great work they have accomplished in the past, I wanted to be a part of any future projects they had in mind.” 
Both Harada and Jones were Band members in bleachers. Gildner was one of the “gillies,” or individuals in green costumes. 
“I actually was one of the peo­ple in the gilly suits, which turned out to be a lot of work since our part happened earlier in the video,” Gildner said. “So, we ended up rehearsing a little more, and doing more run throughs. Wearing the suit was definitely an interesting experi­ence, although covering your face made it more difficult to play your instrument.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

World & Nation 
Thursday, January 14, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Mexico arrests drug lord 
TIJUANA — It will take more than a few arrests of top drug kingpins to end the vicious cycle of drug violence plaguing Mexico. 
While “El Teo” Teodoro Garcia Simental was the fourth major trafficking suspect to be apprehended or killed since President Felipe Calderon launched a major offensive three years ago, 20 more high-profile drug lords — including billionaire Joaquin “El Chapo” Guzman, the leader of the vast Sinloa Cartel — remain at large. 
And the vacuum created by Garcia’s arrest Tuesday in Baja California is expect­ed to fuel even more violence. 
“I know that politicians are making a big deal about this arrest, but honestly there is a line of ill-intentioned people waiting to take the place of that man,” said Dulce Gonzalez Armendez, a 25-year-old recep­tionist in Tijuana. “Not only do I believe this will not bring peace to Baja California, but I also think things will get even worse.” 
Israel to expel U.S. journalist 
JERUSALEM — Security officials said Wednesday that a American journalist has been detained at Israel’s Ben-Gurion Airport and will be expelled. 
They said the journalist, identified by Palestinians as Jared Malsin, raised security suspi­cions during an initial investigation upon his arrival. The Interior Ministry decided he would not be permitted to enter and would remain in deten­tion until his expulsion. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

U.S. peace group sues city, police 
SEATTLE — Members of an anti-war group are suing a civilian intelligence ana­lyst working for the Army, as well as the city of Olympia and police officials, claiming their organization was illegally infiltrated and the information gathered was used to make wrongful arrests. 
In a lawsuit filed Wednesday in U.S. District Court in Seattle, 13 people alleged John J. Towery, who works at Fort Lewis, attended their meetings and demonstrations using a false identity and gave information about them to law enforcement, including Seattle’s Joint Terrorism Task Force. 
Towery was discovered last summer after members learned who he was through pub­lic disclosure requests. They say he con­fessed when confronted. 
Prosecutors charge burglar 
LOS ANGELES — A woman suspected of being the mastermind behind a series of break-ins at the homes of Paris Hilton and Lindsay Lohan has been charged with felony burglary and receiving stolen prop­erty. 
Rachel Lee, 19, was charged Wednesday. She joins five others charged with burgla­ries at several celebrities’ homes, including Orlando Bloom, Rachel Billion, Ashley Tisdale, Megan Fox, and Audrina Patridge. 
Lee is charged with the burglaries at the Hollywood Hills homes of Hilton, Lohan and Patridge. She was arrested in October in Las Vegas, where she lives. Los Angeles County prosecutors initially declined to press charges against her, instead asking 
LOCAL NEWS 

Teen stabs fellow student 
FORT WAYNE — Police say a 14-year-old boy stabbed an older student in the neck during a confrontation in the cafeteria of a Fort Wayne high school. 
The 17-year-old victim was hospitalized in serious condition after the attack Wednesday at Concordia Lutheran High School. Police say his injuries are not life-threatening. 
Police spokesman Michael Joyner says the teens had argued Tuesday and that the 14-year-old stabbed the older boy during a second altercation about 11:30 a.m. Wednesday. 
Texas declines education funds 
Governor cites increasing federal takeover of current state public school system 
Associated Press 

HOUSTON — Texas won’t compete for up to $700 million in federal stimulus money for education because the program “smacks of a federal takeover of our public schools,” Republican Gov. Rick Perry said Wednesday. 
The funding is from the 
U.S. Department of Education’s “Race to the Top” program, a $5 billion competitive fund that will award grants to states to improve education quality and results. The program, created in the economic stimulus law, is part of Democratic President Barack Obama’s efforts to overhaul the nation’s schools. 
Perry has been critical of the federal stimulus pro­gram and the federal bailout of the nation’s financial institutions. He previously turned down $555 million in federal stimulus money for the state’s unemployment fund because it would have required Texas to expand its unemployment benefits. 
However, the state did accept billions of dollars of federal stimulus money to help balance its two-year budget in 2009. 
Perry stood next to Texas have been pushing hard for age as he pushes education before the competition has Education Commissioner lawmakers to overhaul reform. even begun, Gov. Perry has Robert Scott and represen-their education systems so “Here in Texas, we don’t officially won the race to tatives of teachers’ unions they have a better chance have broad consensus on the bottom,” said Dunnam, and said taking the money at qualifying for the money. every issue facing our chairman of the House would force the state to At least 10 states have school system,” Perry said. Select Committee on adopt national education changed laws banning the “We do agree we’d rather Federal Economic and testing standards and use of student test scores work those differences out Stabilization Funding. result in Texas losing its to judge teachers, eased in Texas with solutions that But several teachers’ autonomy in educating charter school restrictions work for Texans instead of unions and groups promot­children. or backed off budget cuts accepting a top down man-ing fiscal responsibility 
The education program to boost their chances. date from some distant supported Perry’s decision, is pushing for a link Perry said Texas’ educa-bureaucrats.” saying the state’s curricu­between student test tion system is doing well Texas Democrats were lum serves students well scores and teacher pay. under state and local con-quick to criticize Perry’s and they have no interest Other reforms it is asking trol — standardized test decision. in the federal government for include turning around scores are up, the dropout State Rep. Jim Dunnam, dictating teaching prac­the lowest-achieving rate is down and Texas has D-Waco, said he didn’t tices. schools and building data been recognized as one of agree with all of Race to “The dollars being dan­systems that measure stu-only four states that is the Top’s mandates, but gled have far too many dent growth and success closing the achievement the grants could help the strings attached and for and inform teachers and gap in math. The grant state lower the achieve-Texans the price would be principals about how they program doesn’t remove ment gap and better pre-far too high,” said Jeri can improve instruction. schools from state and pare Texas children for Stone, executive director of 
Leaders in states such as local control but it gives college. the Texas Classroom Michigan and Wisconsin Obama considerable lever-“By throwing in the towel Teachers Association. 

HAITI 

Death toll rises in Haitian earthquake 
Associated Press 

PORT-AU-PRINCE — Dazed sur­vivors wandered past dead bodies in rubble-strewn streets Wednesday, crying for loved ones, and rescuers searched collapsed buildings as offi­cials feared the death toll from Haiti’s devastating earthquake could reach into the tens of thousands. 
The first cargo planes with food, water, medical supplies, shelter and sniffer dogs headed to the Western Hemisphere’s poorest nation a day after the magnitude-7 quake flattened much of the capital of 2 million peo­ple. 
Tuesday’s earthquake brought down buildings great and small — from shacks in shantytowns to President Rene Preval’s gleaming white National Palace, where a dome tilted ominously above the manicured grounds. 
Hospitals, schools and the main prison collapsed. The capital’s Roman Catholic archbishop was killed when his office and the main cathedral fell. The head of the U.N. peacekeeping mission was missing in the ruins of the organization’s multistory head­quarters. 
At a triage center improvised in a hotel parking lot, people with cuts, broken bones and crushed ribs moaned under tent-like covers fash­ioned from bloody sheets. 
“I can’t take it any more. My back hurts too much,” said Alex Georges, 28, who was still waiting for treat­ment a day after the school he was in collapsed and killed 11 classmates. A body lay a few feet away. 
Haiti’s leaders struggled to compre­hend the extent of the catastrophe — the worst earthquake to hit the coun­try in 200 years — even as after­shocks still reverberated. 
“It’s incredible,” Preval told CNN. “A lot of houses destroyed, hospitals, schools, personal homes. A lot of peo­ple in the street dead. ... I’m still look­ing to understand the magnitude of the event and how to manage.” 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 14, 2010 
HANDS 
continued from page 1 
incorporated February 13, 2009 in Indiana, but it was born in the summer of 2008 in Guatemala in a little café,” co-founder, director and 2009 graduate Maria Bosch said. “Being the case that our coun­try, Guatemala, is poverty stricken, we all wanted to make a difference in our nation. Who better to help Guatemala than [Notre Dame] students?” 
Diaz said HANDS acts as a connection between volunteers and volunteering efforts. 
“We felt committed to do something to help alleviate poverty in Guatemala while at the same time involving the Notre Dame community. During the summer, we visited organi­zations and realized that there was no need to create new projects as there were great projects out there already assisting the people in Guatemala,” Diaz said. “However, most of the projects lacked the human capital resources to make a greater difference in local communi­ties.” 
The lack of opportunities and information out there for stu­dents interested in helping led to the formation of the organi­zation. 
“This resulted in what is HANDS today — a unique plat­form that promotes the devel­opment of Guatemala through a movement of volunteerism. We connect volunteers with existent organizations where they can participate in service opportunities. With the help of volunteers, organizations can maximize their impact and we give others the opportunity to help, to make a difference.” 
The group is looking for vol­unteers to work this summer in Guatemala, Diaz said. 
“Since HANDS in its concep­tion was made by students, we know how a student’s mind works,” Bosch said. “Trying to find some service opportunities ourselves we know how diffi­cult it is to find the perfect service program for the typical student.” 
According to Diaz, the organ­ization has various organiza­tions with programs focusing in community development, health, education, housing and infrastructure and micro-finance. 
“In order to see what pro­grams are available, [students] need to let us know their inter­ests by filling out our applica­tion through our Web site,” Diaz said. 
Diaz and Bosch said the organization intends to spread all over Central America, including Panama and El Salvador, most likely by 2012. 
“Each time we meet new people and learn about who they are, they are heroes who have come across so make dif­ficulties in life and yet, they are still willing to improve their liv­ing conditions and provide a better future for their chil­dren,” Diaz said. “This gives us the strength to continue work­ing and making a strong effort to help others. When you live in a country where the incidence of poverty is everywhere you go, you realize it is your duty to make a difference.” 
To learn more about HANDS, including volunteering efforts and donation opportunities, go to www.handsorganization.org or e-mail info@handsorganiza­tion.org 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

Internship 
continued from page 1 

“They were chosen based whether they needed internship programs or they needed to refine their program,” Dunton said. “We wanted to make sure they would offer opportunities Saint Mary’s would find inter­esting.” 
The positions being created will be available for students in the summer of 2010. Dunton said the internships would be released to students during the middle or end of February. At least five positions will be avail­able, possibly more depending on what the organization has prepared, Dunton said. 
The positions will probably not be paid, however Dunton said Indiana Summer Internship Grants will be avail­able for students who apply for these positions. 
Dunton said she would like to continue connecting with new organizations every year if the previous internships created are well established. 
“Our goal in the end is to have these internships sustained, and develop it so we can offer it every year, maybe even in the fall and spring,” Dunton said. 
She said she hopes the pro­gram will offer positions that will interest Saint Mary’s women. 
“We wanted to give students new opportunities in places where we have holes or are lacking,” Dunton said. 
She said the program allows the Cross Currents Program to be sure they are offering intern­ships to students they are confi­dent in. 
“This puts our fears to rest, so to speak. We know the types of internships students are work­ing on,” Dunton said. “I can even encourage specific stu­dents who I know will fit in well for that position.” 
Overall, Dunton said she is trying to fulfill the goal of the Cross Currents Program, which is to create a stronger connec­tion between Saint Mary’s and the surrounding community. 
“This gets students off of Saint Mary’s campus and into the community more,” Dunton said. “It brings together a lot of the facets of what Cross Currents really is.” 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 

All three of them are differ­ent, he said, and their reaction to the film reflects their person­alities. 
John, a “quiet and reserved kid,” was anxious at first, while Patrick was “wholly ambivalent 
— he just wanted to know when his friends could come over and when we could play Playstation,” Crowley said. 
Megan, the “precocious” straight-A student, is so excited about the film that she’s been 
shopping for her 
and I to be com­fortable with basically signing  “I think one of the lessons for us is the  dress for a cou­ple of months now. She even  
our life rights away to a studio to make a film  importance of innovation and a lot  wore a “Local Celebrity” T-shirt to school.  
about our fami­ of people, including  Her father told  
ly,” he said. “This is largely how the world is going to know us  myself and others, need to keep working to drive science to the  her that the “local” is no longer necessary. “They’re going  
and we wanted  next best treatment  to be proxies for  
to make sure that it was done  that’s ultimately a  hundreds of thousands of kids  
the right way by  cure for the disease.”  in wheelchairs,  
the  right  peo­ and this is how  
ple.” The right peo­ple, including  John Crowley alum  people are going to know about special needs.  
actor Harrison  Yes, they  have  

Ford, have helped the Crowley special needs, but also remark-family to “share with the world ably special gifts,” he said. a lot of the strength and hope Crowley, who is portrayed by and inspiration that we’ve actor Brendan Fraser in the learned from so many people,” film, is focused on the work that Crowley said, “but more than is yet to be done. anybody, through our kids.” “I think one of the lessons for 
After receiving biweekly us is the importance of innova­treatment, Megan and Patrick tion and a lot of people, includ­are doing much better. Their ing myself and others, need to hearts, once enlarged to twice keep working to drive science to or three times the normal size, the next best treatment that’s are now normal-sized. ultimately a cure for the dis­
“They’re still special kids. ease,” Crowley said. They’re still in wheelchairs,” he The ultimate goal of the film said, but he wanted to make is “much more broad” than just sure that char-focusing atten­acteristic is not tion on Pompe 
the only one to define his kids, who attend pub­lic schools in  “We didn’t change the world, we just changed our tiny  disease, he said. “There are 7,000 rare dis­eases that  
Princeton, N.J. “ T h e y ’ r e  little piece of it.”  together affect more than 30  
happy, they’re smart … that’s  John Crowley  million people just in the  
just another tes­ alum  United  States,  
tament to their  and I think this  
strength,”  he  film will inspire  

said. “They just want to be people to try and solve these treated like every other kid.” problems,” he said. 
Talking about his children, Some of those working hard­Crowley’s voice changes — it’s est to fight for cures work here more fast-paced, more excited, at Notre Dame, including Dr. and you can tell he’s smiling. Kasturi Haldar, director of the ularly touch the Notre Dame community, Crowley said. 
“In the sense of faith and commitment and service that make Notre Dame so unique … if there’s one community that can relate to [the message of the film], I think it’s the Notre Dame family.” 
All being said, he’s happy with the film that is inspired by his urgent search for a cure for Pompe. 
“We didn’t change the world, we just changed our tiny little piece of it,” he said. 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 

University’s Center for Rare and Neglected Diseases. Featured in one of Notre Dame’s “What Would You Fight For?” televi­sion ads on NBC, the Center is especially concerned with rare neuromuscular disorders such as Neimann-Pick Type C and rare forms of cancer along with neglected diseases like malaria and tuberculosis. 
Crowley described the current research environment as the “Golden Age” of medicine, pointing to Haldar as a leader in the future of experimental medicine and treatment. 
Crowley and Haldar will be teaming up to introduce tonight’s 6:30 p.m. special pre­release screening of “Extraordinary Measures” in the Browning Cinema of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. A second screening will follow at 9:30 p.m. 
Crowley said his family didn’t want the film to be melodra­matic. 
“I didn’t want it to manipulate the subject matter, because it’s an easy subject to do that if you want to,” he said. 
Though there will be some emotional scenes, Crowley promised the audience will laugh a lot more than cry. 
The film’s themes will partic-
Crowley 
continued from page 1 
said he never spent much time with “Hollywood people,” and he and his wife were “appre­hensive and a bit skeptical” when the studio and producers approached the family about telling their story on the big screen. 
“It took the better part of a year for Aileen 


The Observer 

Business
Thursday, January 14, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

AT&T enables text donations to Haiti 
DALLAS — AT&T Inc. is making it easy to donate $10 via text message to assist earthquake victims in Haiti. 
The telephone company said Wednesday that its wireless customers can donate the money to the Red Cross International Relief fund by sending a text message with the word “HAITI” to 90999. 
After a confirmation message arrives, the cus­tomer must reply “yes” to finalize the donation, which is added to their bill or deducted from the prepaid account. 
AT&T said 100 percent of the money will be passed onto the Red Cross although standard text messaging rates apply. Earlier this year, AT&T gave $200,000 to the Red Cross as part of a five-year, $1 million commitment. 
The company is also donating $50,000 to Telecoms Sans Frontieres, a humanitarian organi­zation that has sent an emergency team with satellite mobile and fixed communications equip­ment to Haiti. 
Hershey works on Cadbury bid 
HARRISBURG, Pa. — The Hershey Co. is assembling a bid to acquire British candy maker Cadbury PLC without the help of Italian candy maker Ferrero International, a person familiar with Hershey’s plans told The Associated Press on Wednesday. 
Meanwhile, the company that bid first, American food giant Kraft, continued to defend its offer and issued an earnings forecast that may have been intended to show off its strength. 
Hershey has been working on two parallel bids for Cadbury — one with Ferrero and one on its own. But Ferrero reportedly has withdrawn. Hershey is still crafting its own potential bid, one designed to top the $16.5 billion hostile offer from Kraft Foods Inc., the person familiar with Hershey said. 
The person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the person was not authorized to speak publicly about the matter, said Hershey hoped to avoid a bidding war by waiting until Cadbury’s shareholders make a decision on Kraft’s bid. 
Kraft has until Feb. 2 to win support from a majority of shareholders. It said last week that it had received acceptance from holders of 1.5 per­cent of Cadbury shares to date. Kraft’s deadline to increase its bid is Jan. 19. 
GM to halt Hummer production 
Louisiana plant to close due to pending sale of brand to Chinese corporation 
Associated Press 

JACKSON, Miss. — General Motors Co. will halt Hummer production next week at its Louisiana plant until sale of the brand to a Chinese company is completed. 
Kevin Wale, president 
of GM’s China Group, said, meanwhile, he ’s optimistic, but uncertain, the Hummer deal will be approved by Chinese gov­ernment regulators. 
GM agreed last year to sell Hummer, once syn­onymous with America’s love for big off -road vehicles, to Sichuan Tengzhong Heavy Industrial Machinery Corp. It had expected the deal to close early in 2010 after approval by 
U.S. and Chinese regula­tors. 
Assembly of Hummers at GM’s Shreveport, La., plant will be suspended Jan. 19 because there’s “sufficient inventory in the field” to sustain deal­ers while the sale makes its way through the regu­latory process, Hummer spokesman Nick Richards said Wednesday. 
The approval delay is because Tengzhong is not an established manufac-It was unclear how jobs “For the long-term, we who has worked at the turer, something normal-would be affected at the know our best opportuni-plant for 26 years, said ly required by Chinese plant in Shreveport, ty to preserve jobs at the he was disappointed by governments, Wale said which also builds facility is supporting the the news, but he doesn’t after a speech Chevrolet Colorado and sale of the Hummer expect job cuts right now Wednesday at the GMC Canyon pickup brand, a transaction that either. 
Automotive News World trucks, Richards said. appears to be on track “I figured they’d go up Congress in Detroit. 
“It hasn’t been deter-according to GM officials, to the maximum produc­“It’s not a recognized mined what the impact as well as to attract addi-tion if we sold to the car manufacturer, and will be right now, but tional automotive tenants Chinese, but that’s the they have rules that Hummer production is to fully utilize the facili-thing, it seems like it require that people can’t under a quarter of pro-ty,” he said in a state-keeps getting put off, like just randomly go into key duction ” at the plant, ment. it’s one thing after anoth­businesses,” Wale said. 
Richards said. Doug Ebey, president of er,” Thomas said. 
“They have to get The Louisiana plant the UAW Local 2166, said Hummer sales have approval so that they once employed about he doesn’t “expect job been struggling since the don’t end up with too 3,000 people, but layoffs cuts in the immediate sale announcement. High many suppliers, too and buyouts have future, but if (the sale) gasoline prices and the many people trying to reduced that to about drags on and on anything national economic slump compete in each indus­1,120. is possible.” get some of the blame. 
try. It’s not a specific Louisiana Gov. Bobby “This is a temporary Sales peaked at 71,524 issue associated with Jindal said the state will suspension of production in 2006. But in December Tengzhong or Hummer. 
“aggressively pursue a and we expect the sale is 2009 only 325 Hummers It ’s just a structural variety of options to going to go through, ” were sold, down 85 per-management of their retain and grow jobs at Ebey said. cent from the previous economy.” 
the plant.” Gerald Thomas, 60, year. 

SEC names new enforcement unit 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — The Securities and Exchange Commission named six people on Wednesday to lead new investigative units and unveiled a new policy for rewarding prompt cooperation by those with knowledge of misconduct as the agency reorgan­izes its enforcement efforts. 
The SEC was scorched by its failure to detect the stunning, long-running fraud by money manager Bernard Madoff despite numerous red flags and credible warnings. 
The new units and their leaders are: asset management, headed by Bruce Karpati and Robert Kaplan; market abuse, led by Daniel Hawke; structured and new products, Kenneth Lench; foreign corrupt prac­tices, Cheryl Scarboro; and municipal securities and public pensions, Elaine Greenberg. 
All of the unit chiefs come from within the agency. The new units reflect areas of high priority for the SEC, and are in response to the growing complexity and speed of the markets and burgeoning financial products. They will be able to detect emerging fraud and file cases quick­ly, the SEC said. 
SEC Enforcement Director Robert Khuzami also announced new meas­ures designed to encourage compa­nies and individuals to cooperate more closely in providing informa­tion. 
The SEC also set up a new Office of Market Intelligence to analyze the hundreds of thousands of tips and complaints received by the agency each year. It will be headed by Thomas Sporkin, who has been deputy chief of the SEC’s Office of Internet Enforcement since 2001. 
The SEC inspector general recom­mended late last year that the agency create a new system for handling tips and complaints to prevent another breakdown like the one that allowed Madoff’s massive Ponzi scheme to flourish for nearly two decades. 
For the first time, the SEC will have a formal framework of incentives for gaining the cooperation of people who witnessed instances of securities fraud — and "who can walk into a courtroom, raise their right hand and tell their story to the world," Khuzami said at a news conference at agency headquarters. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Thursday, January 14, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Kara King ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 kking5@nd.edu, asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
Manhattan Declaration 
One hundred fifty-two Catholic, Orthodox and Evangelical leaders recently issued the Manhattan Declaration (MD) in defense of “the sanctity of human life, the dignity of marriage as a union of husband and wife, and the freedom of conscience and reli­gion.” MD was draft­ed by Princeton Professor Robert George, Dean Timothy George of Samford University and 

Charles Rice 
Chuck Colson, founder of the 
Right or
Center for 
Wrong?

Christian Worldview. Online signers of MD exceed 400,000. 
MD tells it like it is: “[I]n our nation … the lives of the unborn, the dis­abled, and the elderly are … threat­ened; … the institution of marriage, already buffeted by promiscuity, infi­delity and divorce, is … redefined to accommodate fashionable ideologies; … the rights of conscience are … jeop­ardized by those who would … compel persons of faith to compromise their deepest convictions.” MD relies on rea­soned argument, consistent with Benedict XVI’s view that the Church contributes to “discussion of the … questions shaping America’s future by proposing respectful and reasonable arguments grounded in the natural law and confirmed by the perspective of faith” (Oct. 2, 2009). 
MD spares neither political party: “[S]ince Roe v. Wade, … both … par­ties have been complicit in giving legal sanction to what Pope John Paul II described as ‘the culture of death.’” MD presents a bill of particulars: “[H]uman embryo-destructive research and its public funding are promoted ... The President and many in Congress favor … funding of … ‘therapeutic cloning’ … the … mass production of human embryos to be killed [to pro­duce] … customized stem cell lines and tissues. At the other end of life, [a] movement to promote assisted suicide and ‘voluntary’ euthanasia threatens the lives of vulnerable … persons.” 
MD, unfortunately, misreads the ori­gins of the “culture of death.” MD describes “the cheapening of life that began with abortion” and “the license to kill that began with the abandon­ment of the unborn to abortion.” Legalized abortion, however, and the other evils denounced by MD, are not origins, but rather symptoms of the contraceptive ethic that dominates our secularist, relativist and individualist culture. 
Until the Anglican Lambeth Conference of 1930, no Christian denomination had ever held that con­traception could ever be objectively right. Contraception requires abortion as a backup. And the declining num­ber of young is a factor in promoting euthanasia. If you make yourself the arbiter of whether and when life shall begin, you will predictably make your­self the arbiter of when, as in abortion or euthanasia, life shall end. In Evangelium Vitae, John Paul II noted that “contraception and abortion are often closely connected, as fruits of the same tree … [I]n very many … instances such practices … imply a self-centered concept of freedom, which regards procreation as an obstacle to personal fulfillment. The life which could result from a sexual encounter thus becomes an enemy to be avoided at all costs, and abortion becomes the only possible decisive response to contraception” (No. 13). 
MD eloquently affirms that “the mar­ital relationship is shaped and struc­tured by its intrinsic orientation to … procreation.” But it mentions neither contraception nor the defining aggres­sion by which the federal government intruded itself, on the side of prevent­ing life, into private reproductive deci­sions especially among the poor. During the 1960s, federal funding of family planning was limited. In 1970, Title X of the Family Planning and Population Services Act authorized grants and contracts to provide, in President Nixon’s words, “family plan­ning services … to all those who want them but cannot afford them.” Abortifacients that prevent implanta­tion of the embryo in the womb can be defined and funded as contraceptives under Title X and under Medicaid which, according to the Alan Guttmacher Institute, is now “the pri­mary source of public funding for con­traceptive services.” Federal subsidies of birth control are directed primarily toward low-income persons in the United States, and abroad in foreign aid programs. Pending health care and other programs are likely to increase such funding. 
In Humanae Vitae, Pope Paul VI pre­dicted that the acceptance of contra­ception would place “a dangerous weapon … in the hands of … public authorities …. for applying to … prob­lems of the community those means acknowledged to be licit for married couples ... Who will stop rulers from … imposing upon their peoples … the method of contraception which they judge to be most efficacious? In such a way men would [place] at the mercy of … public authorities the most personal … sector of conjugal intimacy” (No. 17). 
The failure of MD, in its catalogue of legalized promotions of the “culture of death,” even to mention the entry by government into the business of subsi­dizing by contraception the rejection of new life, is inexcusable. Once that role of government was conceded, the other evils denounced by MD were predictable. Perhaps the purpose of MD was to put together a coalition of signers that would include proponents of public funding of contraception. If so, MD politicized and trivialized itself. 
On another concern of MD, same-sex marriage, the impact of contraception was spelled out by Methodist Pastor Donald Sensing of Franklin, Tenn: “Since the invention of the Pill … human beings have … been able to control reproduction … The … accept­ance of these changes is impelling the move toward homosexual marriage. Men and women living together … became … the dominant lifestyle in the under-30 demographic … Because they … control their reproductive abil­ities — that is, have sex without sex’s results — the arguments against homosexual consanguinity began to wilt. 
“When society decided — and we have decided, this fight is over — that society would no longer decide the legitimacy of sexual relations between particular men and women, weddings became … symbolic rather than sub­stantive … the shortcut way to make the legal compact regarding property rights, inheritance and … other … benefits … Sex, childbearing and mar­riage now have no necessary connec­tion to one another, because the bio­logical connection between sex and childbearing is controllable … If socie­ty has abandoned regulating hetero­sexual conduct of men and women, what right does it have to regulate homosexual conduct, including the regulation of their legal and property relationship with one another to mir­ror exactly that of hetero, married couples? I believe that this … is con­trary to the will of God. But … same-sex marriage, if it comes about, will not cause the degeneration of … mar­riage; it is the result of it” (Wall Street Journal, March 15, 2004). 
The signers of MD commendably pledge, in accord with St. Thomas Aquinas and Martin Luther King, to disobey any edict that would compel them or their institutions to participate in “any … anti-life act,” treat “immoral sexual partnerships … as marriages or … refrain from proclaim­ing the truth.” They also voice a prayer for their own perseverance: “May God help us not to fail in [our] duty” to proclaim the Gospel. Regrettably, MD did not go further and call upon the American people to pray for their country. 
MD forthrightly calls attention to evils that transcend the political as a challenge to reason, nature and God himself. MD itself would have tran­scended the political if it had called on the American people to put their pri­mary reliance on prayer. Without a confrontation of contraception and its promotion by government, and without a serious call to prayer, MD invites dis­missal as just another syncretistic manifesto cast in powerful prose that misses the point. 
Professor Emeritus Charles Rice is on the law school faculty. He can be reached at rice.1@nd.edu or 574-633-4415. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Ashley Charnley Michael Bryan Alicia Smith Jared Jedick Sam Stryker Andrew Owens 
Graphics Scene 
“A painting in a museum hears 
Andrea Archer Jordan Gamble 
more ridiculous opinions thanViewpoint anything else in the world.” 
Stephanie Vossler 

Edmond de Goncourt French artist 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I don’t think anyone should writetheir autobiography untilafter they’re dead.” 
Samuel Goldwyn
U.S. producer 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Thursday, January 14, 2009 page 9 
Party smarter, not harder 
It’s a new decade! A completely arbi­trary marker on a calendar which will nevertheless cause you to resolve to become a better person, which resolu­tion you will halfheartedly keep for the first three weeks of January. In this 
Brooks Smith
spirit of semi-enthusiastic self-

Mighty
improvement, I 

Morphin Power 
have drawn on 

Columnist
my considerable and hard-earned experience with social gatherings to bring you an exhaustive breakdown of how much to drink at parties. Each of the three cases below describes a party type and its corresponding, tried-and­true drinking strategy. Sláinte! 
Disclaimer 

The scenarios described in this arti­cle are for professional drinkers of legal age, and should not be attempted by anybody, or else I will get ResLifed, as well as several starving Kenyan chil­dren. Please, think of the children. 
Case One 

You know nobody. All the lessons your parents have taught you about moderation are pure bull excrement. Steel yourself for the social ordeal which awaits you by drinking to excess. 
Of course, anybody can drink a lot; but, how much of too much is enough of too much? You may have had enough, but still not have had “enough,” if you catch my drift. There are two schools of thought on how to achieve the desired result. The first, recommended for mathematicians, physics majors and engineers (the ones most in need of this advice), is: Calculate how drunk the other partygo­ers will be, differentiate to find the maximum, and aim for twice that. The second is simpler and recommended for A & L majors and other mathemati­cal illiterates: After each drink, ask yourself if you still care. If so, take another drink. 
Console yourself in the morning, over six glasses of water and several ibupro­fen, by remembering that there are no consequences; that somebody (possibly even you!) got a good story out of it; and that you can’t get pregnant if it’s your first time. 
Case Two 

You know people, but not well, and are anxious to make a good impres­sion. (Note: if the second part of this does not apply, you are in Case One and should drink accordingly.) 
In general, this is a tricky case, requiring a great deal of individual dis­cretion. I am concerned you do not have this, since you are perusing a newspaper column for life advice. Is it better to remain sober and convince all the drunk people that they have made a bad impression, so that you are ‘one­up?’ Or is it better to attempt to become so hilariously drunk that everybody loves you and you have made friends for life? If you are seri­ously considering either of these options, you are dumb and do not understand the mechanics of human interaction. I tend to favor a strategy which has occasionally served me in good stead: Drink less than everybody else, so that you can securely laugh at the antics of the drunkest. 
Case Three 

You know everybody at the party and everybody is your bestie, your BFF, your biffle, your [insert already dated “Juno”-esque slang here]. Since every­body here at the party is best friends, there is no motivation for anyone to impress anybody else, and no tension which needs dulling with alcohol. I sug­gest a quiet game of Risk or Monopoly, or perhaps curling up under a blanket with a few seasons of “Golden Girls” or “As Time Goes By.” 
On the other hand, if you and your friends are not lame (again, you’re checking a newspaper column for life advice, so I don’t make any unwarrant­ed assumptions), you should get ham­mered to taste. Perhaps you should make some sort of game out of becom­ing intoxicated — say, attempting to throw ping-pong balls into little red beer-filled cups, or watching the “Sex and the City” movie and taking shots every time Carrie buys or name-checks an expensive article of clothing. Either way, the festivities of the party should revolve around alcohol and alcohol accessories. 
If Case Three is being done correctly, you and all your friends should be soaked in a warm golden glow of light 
— and not just of the Natty variety. You are, at this moment, as close as mere mortals can become to achieving heav­en on earth. You are in that rare state of connection with everybody in the room known as: Friend Nirvana. All systems are go, all frequencies in sync, all of you will wake up in the morning feeling like P. Diddy. 
A helpful tip from this writer: At or just after the peak of such a party, you and your friends should find a party where you know nobody. Rest assured, Case One will apply. 
Brooks Smith is a junior math and English major at Notre Dame. He can be contacted at bsmith26@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Marching Band’s popular debut 
For anyone that might think that the term “marching band” cannot possibly be mentioned in the same sen­tence as “cool,” the Marching Band of the Fighting Irish certainly have disproved that notion by being fea­tured in the recently-released music video by the [insert appropriate hipster adjective here] band OK Go. Sweet. 
Peggy Ward 
alumna 
class of ‘95 
Jan. 13 

The greatest fraternity 
My father and mother were graduates of the Notre Dame/Saint Mary’s classes of 1917, respectively, and totally dedicated to both schools throughout their life times. I grew up with a constant stream of clergy and former classmates for dinner, picnics (the nuns didn’t come in the house in those days), assorted class activities and post football reunions. Whenever we traveled, there were alums to be visited and in times of need to be called upon for help. We were, it seemed, part of a giant fraternity-sorority that proceeded, I surmised later, from the friendships formed and the love expressed on these residential campuses. Friendships characterized by an extraordinary inclusiveness, which continue through life as most graduates who have traveled widely can attest. 
It was no surprise, then, that my college experience began at Notre Dame. That it began in July 1943 in the Navy V-12 program and continued two semesters later in the NROTC at the University of Michigan was unexpect­ed. Happily, when our class was commissioned a year and a half later, I had found a very special girl, 60 friends in my unit and a fine school, but the greatest fra­ternity on earth was in South Bend, not Ann Arbor and that’s where I wanted to be. So a year later I was back under the Dome to finish in that special environment that helps make Notre Dame unique. 
Bill Voll 
alumnus class of ‘48 Dec. 9 

TALKING HEADS CORBY BROWN 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Thursday, January 14, 2010 
By KATHERINE GREENSPON 
Scene Writer 
The New Year means new artists, so say goodbye to LMAFO and 3OH!3, and hello to the new singing sensation, Ke$ha. Ke$ha made her stomping debut on Flo Rida’s track “Right Round” and after the song gained immediate popularity, critics and fans started taking notice. Flo Rida’s rap and crushing beats were not what made this song stick but the mysterious female voice that haunted the chorus. Ke$ha came out of the woodwork after the single earned top spots charts around the nation. She quickly started work­ing on her own album and after an anxious wait released her first debut album on Jan. 5 titled “Animal.” Ke$ha set new record on Internet after her sin­gle “Tik Tok” downloaded more than 600,000 plus times last week online. This single broke the “Right Round’s” chart records. She continued to shock the public when she earned the number one spot on the Billboard Hot 100 chart. She trumps Lady Gaga, Katy Perry and Amy Winehouse with her no restraints attitude and obscene lyrics that people have shockingly embraced. 


The album starts off with “Your Love is my Drug,” a song that proclaims her love for boys and what they have to offer. Her head-banging beats travel throughout the album, very similar to Lady Gaga’s “Just Dance” and “Monster” tracks but with a little more naughty to them. Ke$ha seems to push the envelope a little on this album with other tracks titled “Take it Off” and “Blah the known favorites on the album. “Take it Off” starts off with lyrics, “There’s a place downtown where the freaks all come around,” which should give people a pretty clear prediction of what fol­lows in the 14-track album. Ke$ha helped to write all the songs on the album, including the song that the album is named for, “Animal.” 
We were all pretty sure the trash electro sound was dying out, including the king of New York, rapper Jay-Z with his hit song 
“D.O.A. (Death of Auto-Tune),” which earned him 2009’s biggest hip -hop songs of the year. Ke$ha, however, is proving everyone wrong. Ig noring the critics 

and musical trends obviously 
pays off for the 22-year old 
who is climbing the ladder 
as one of the most popu­
lar downloaded and lis­
tened to artists on 
iTunes. She is currently 
touring around the 
world, spreading her 
“Tik Tok” and head-
bashing mentality. Most 
of her songs, including 
“Ki$$ and Tell” and 
“Hungover,” are perfect 
tracks for the club, and 
the electrical sound she 
incorporates into each 
track helps to keep her songs upbeat and thrilling. 
One song that really stands out is the charismatic teenage contribution, “Stephen.” With its confused and silly beat, it comes across as awkward and uncomfortable but has a catchy beat that makes it one of the leading tracks on the album. Although all the songs 
appealing aspects to them, two tracks were clearly flops that would look better on an Avril Lavigne or Miley Cyrus album. “Boots and Boys” and “Party at a Rich Dude’s House” are both songs that could have been left off the album. 

Ke$ha is a new and exciting force on pop-electric sound and with her daring fashion sense and obscene lyrics, she is sure to keep the public’s attention as she travels and delivers energized powerful shows. Her well-known song “Tik Tok” sums up Ke$ha’s mindset as she throws herself into a music business where everything is a party. The clock will never stop as she works to give the public new and groundbreaking songs that will keep people dancing at the club and plugged into their headphones. 
Contact Katherine Greenspon at kgreen01@saintmarys.edu 



By ADRIANA PRATT 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Too many stars, too little plot. “Nine,” a musical film directed by Rob Marshall, hit theatres Christmas Day, luring audiences with pas­sionate songs, beautiful women and fantastic cos ­tumes and scenery. One would think all these com­ponents would add up to an enchanting tale, but instead “Nine ” proved that you can ’t judge a book by its cover. 
The film detailing the life of an Italian movie director is nominated for five Golden Globes, including Best Actor (Daniel Day-Lewis) and Best Actress (Marion Cotillard), but notably lacks a Best Picture nomination, for good reason. Day -Lewis, Cotillard and the slew of 

other noticeably brilliant actors (including Nicole Kidman, Judi Dench and Sophia Loren) performed at their peak but were given an exhaustingly long story­line that’s pace only picked up when the singing and dancing began and crashed once the songs ended. 
Adapted from Arthur Kopit, Mario Fratti and Maury Yeston ’s musical “Nine,” which was in turn adapted from Federico Fellini ’s film “8 1/2, ” the film follows the life of Guido Contini (Day-Lewis) and the trials he faces while trying to write a new film amidst temptations from women both past and present. 
In “Nine, ” Contini, who wed one of his beautiful leading ladies, Luisa del Forno (Cotillard), suffered 
from a severe case of the wandering mind. His woman on the side, the sul­try and seductive Carla (P enelope Cruz) clung to Contini with all her might, att empti ng suicide when she thought their trysts were ending for good. Steph anie (Kate Hudson), an American film critic for Vogue Magazine, attempted to bed Contini. Claudia (Nicole Kidman), another leading lady of Contini’s films, pro­fessed her love to him. No 
one was immune from the lure of the successful wom­anizing director. 
Two of the most enticing performances of the film came from Kate Hudson and Fergie. Hudson ’s song “Cinema Italiano ” was Yeston’s only new addition to the musical ’s song list and is in the running for a “Best Song” Golden Globe. Fergie’s role as the Italian prostitute Saraghina was both visually and vocally shocking. She gained 17 pounds for the role, which seemed to enrich the densi­ty of her voice, and busted out an enchanting and pow­erful performance of the movie ’s richest song “Be Italian.” 
Hudson surprised audi ­ences with her ability to sing and dance and admit­tedly did a decent job. While one shouldn’t expect to see her storming the Grammy stage anytime soon, she brought extra life and vivaciousness to the film with her flashy moves and equally flashy costume. The fabulously chic sparkle of her mod silver fringe get­up lit the stage she per ­formed on, accented with 
GQ-looking  men  dressed in  
t a i l o r e d  b l a c k  s u i t s  a n d  
skinny ties.  

Cruz ’s performance as Carla was also wonderfully done. Her longing for Guido was obvious and like an infatuated puppy, she pant­ed at his every beckoning and followed every com ­mand he gave. It was clear that she was willing to give up her life with her hus ­band to remain at Guido’s side, but was left disap ­pointed 
when she learned she was 
only 
a source of phy sical pleasu re for him. Her provoca ­tive per ­formance 

of 
“A Call from the Va t i c a n ” solidified her status as the 



inspiration for Guido’s fan­tasies. 
Day-Lewis was convincing as an overly self-absorbed Italian man and Cotillard as his sweet but scorned wife. She was by far the most lik­able of the female roles, fol­lowed closely by Lilli (Dench), the voice -of -rea ­son. These two, along with members of the Vatican, tried to guide Guido on the right path but like a stub­born egoist, he refused to follow until it was the only option left. 
Guido was undeservedly spoiled by the women in his life and was unworthy of the affection thrown at him. “Nine” attempts to send this message but loses it in the muck of an unbearably drawn -out plot. YouTube the film’s musical perform­ances and you ’ll get the highlights without wasting the money. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 


ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Thursday, January 14, 2010 page 11 
‘ E x t r a o r d i n a r y M e a s u r e s ’ a t  ‘ W h i r l e d N e w s To n i g h t ’ a t  Ty l e r H i l t o n a t L e g e n d s , 1 0  “Car m en : T h e Me tr o p o l it a n  
DPAC, 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m.  Legends, 10 p.m.  p.m.  Opera Live in HD at DPAC,” 1  
“Extraordinary Measures” pres- With the start of classes and the  Singer-songwriter Tyler Hilton is  p.m.  
ents a story that will especially  freezing weather, everyone should  pl a y i ng a s how Sa t ur d ay n ig ht .  M an y t i me s, q ua l ity c ul t ura l  
connect with Notre Dame students.  be in the mood for some laughter  Hilton is best known for his hits  events are only available in large  
I t i s based on the true story of  this weekend. Check out “Whirled  “ W h e n i t C o m e s , ” “ H o w L o v e  cities, but Bizet’s “Carmen” will be  
Notre Dame alumnus John Crowley  News Tonight,” the longest run- Should Be” and “You’ll Ask For  p la yin g at D PA C’s B r ow ni ng  
(Brendan Fraser), who risks his  n i n g i m p r o v c o m e d y s h o w i n  Me,” as well as his acting in “One  Cin em a S atu r d a y an d S un d ay  
career to find a cure for his chil- Chicago. The group starts out the  Tree Hill” and “Walk the Line.”  af t e r noo ns. Wa t c h t h e  
dren’s rare and deadly genetic dis- show by selecting random articles  Hilton’s music can be compared to  Metropolitan Opera, one of the  
ease. Crowley and his wife (Keri  from newspapers and magazines  Howie Day’s, another singer-song­ world’s best, perform the story of a  
Russell) find hope when they meet  in the audience and follows with a  w r i t e r w h o s a n g a h i t s h o w a t  beautiful gypsy who seduces the  
a n u n c o n v e n t i o n a l r e s e a r c h e r  s a t i r i c a l n e w s s h o w, à l a “ T h e  L e g e n d s l a s t y e a r. T h e s m a l l e r  soldier Don Jose, which leads to  
(Harrison Ford) who may have the  Onion” or “The Colbert Report.”  v e n u e o f L e g e n d s w i l l c o m b i n e  jealousy, fights and irreversible  
solution. Crowley will be present  The fast-paced show is known for  perfectly with Hilton’s music to  consequences. This popular opera  
at both screenings to introduce the  presenting a comedic spin to the  give an intimate and personal feel  will transport you from South Bend  
film. This is a great chance to see  even the most serious of current  to the performance. Concerts on  on a January afternoon to Seville,  
an inspiring film weeks before the  events. This group of quick and  c a m p u s a r e r a r e b u t p o p u l a r  Spain in the 19th century. Plus,  
r e s t o f A m e r i c a c a n . R e s e r v e d  funny comedians will surely have  events, so you should arrive early  you shouldn’t have much home- 
tickets are available by calling the  the audience laughing through the  to ensure you are able to see this  work to do after only one week of  
ticket office at DPAC.  night.  young and talented performer.  class. Tickets are $15 for students.  
Contact Brandy Cerne at bcerne1@nd.edu  
ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic  


By JORDAN GAMBLE 
Associate Scene Editor 
On paper, it all sounds pretty tame, even lame. Gregg Gillis, aka Girl Talk, mixed together a bunch of different songs on his laptop and played the concoction for a crowd at the Congress Theater in Chicago. List price for tickets to the New Year’s Eve event was $35, kind of overpriced for a DJ. 
In actuality, Girl Talk produced two hours of thumping, sweep­ing, grinding, outrageously intri­cate mashed-up music. Tickets hovered around $200 on StubHub for those unlucky enough to snatch them up a month in advance. The capacity (and then some) crowd filled the floor of the cavernous Congress Theater, where all the seats have been ripped out to facilitate a dance-club atmosphere. 

In truth, though, the experience was more akin to a sweaty, booze-drenched house party with hundreds of your best friends, albeit one with vigorous pat-down security and a coat check. The stage crew even spent three days building a massive house on the stage, complete with two sto­ries and a roof. 

Just as the house had no fourth wall, Girl Talk didn’t have much of a barrier between his perform­ance and the audience. People crowded around his mixing sta­tion to dance, spy on his upcom­ing song selections and even jump around with him for the few seconds when he would set the music to autopilot. A few others were allowed to filter through the life-size dollhouse. Some played the bongo drums in the second-story bedroom, sat on the toilet in the bathroom or rifled through the fridge in the kitchen. Halfway through the show, after Girl Talk led the countdown to 2010, a guy even proposed to his girlfriend in the living room. 
But why exactly should he com­mand such a following? Why does a DJ need a house on the stage in an old opera house for his concerts? Well, as Gillis will tell you, “I am not a DJ” (the con­cert t-shirts say the same thing.) He’s not even really a mash-up artist (think of Danger Mouse and his “Grey Album,” which strung together the Beatles’ “White Album” and Jay-Z’s “Black Album”). 
Girl Talk weaves together bits and pieces from literally hun­dreds of different songs. He picks out a hook, a beat, or even a sin­gle word and treats it like its own instrument in an orchestra that he conducts with a laptop and some heavy-duty sound-editing software. Amazing things hap­pen, and listening to Girl Talk is as much about enjoying the cre­ation as it is a game of “I Spy” with music: Michael Jackson is spliced into Megadeath, an 80s pop song becomes a hip-hop anthem, somehow morphs into “Party in the USA” and melts into a guitar riff from Nirvana. 
While he does mix a good por­tion of the music live, a general outline usually comes from one of his full-length albums released through the record label Illegal Art. “Night Ripper” (2006) and “Feed the Animals” (2008) are the two most recent and the most likely to turn up in his live shows. They are both essentially 45­minute-long songs, with no breaks beyond some rather arbi­trary track listings. “Feed the Animals” alone samples from more than 300 songs. 
Unfortunately, a good degree of these albums’ intricacy was lost in the Congress Theater’s echoing confines, but enough of the infec­tious dance beats remained. Adding to the atmosphere were several crewmembers who used leaf blowers to spin toilet paper off rolls into the air. Every once in a while, huge tubes of clear plas­tic, filled with confetti, would be launched from the stage and glid­ed around the floor of the theater on the hands of the audience. And, of course, at midnight, hun­dreds of balloons fell from the ceiling. 
But the music still took prece­dence. Near the end of the first act (before the midnight count­down and the onstage marriage proposal), Girl Talk brought in the opening strains of “Don’t Stop Believing,” and the excitement in the air was palpable. Everyone knew what was up next, but Girl Talk teased the crowd. Steve Perry sang, “just a small town girl,” several times before there was enough space for the crowd to belt out, “living in a lonely world.” 
Girl Talk was more accommo­dating at the show’s end. The whole audience sang along to John Lennon’s “Imagine” as the not-DJ closed out two hours of paradoxical performance — a thrillingly unique creation made by stealing music from other artists, a live performance that is essentially iTunes on steroids. But Girl Talk’s electrifying shows still bring in the sweaty, dancing masses for a reason: they are a riotous good time. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 

ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 
page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, January 14, 2010 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Smith leads Blue Devils in dominant win over Eagles 
Virginia sneaks past No. 20 Georgia Tech; Mountaineers blow by South Florida; Hokies knock Miami from rankings 
penetration and trailing just 
Associated Press 
38-35 at halftime. 

DURHAM, N.C. — Nolan But the Eagles shot just 8 for Smith scored 24 points to help 22 (36 percent) after halftime. eighth-ranked Duke bounce They also began committing back from a weekend loss and turnovers to give the Blue beat Boston College 79-59 on Devils the transition opportuni-Wednesday night. ties they needed to pull away. 
Kyle Singler added 15 points for the Blue Devils (14-2, 2-1 Virginia 82, Georgia Tech 75 Atlantic Coast Conference), Sylven Landesberg scored 22 who pushed ahead for good points and Virginia used a 16-4 late in the first half and pulled run late in the second half to away in the opening minutes surge past No. 20 Georgia Tech after the break. on Wednesday night. 
Reggie Jackson scored 20 Virginia (10-4, 2-0 Atlantic points for the Eagles (10-7, 1-Coast Conference) won its sixth 2), but he was BC’s only dou-straight game, its longest win­ble-figure scorer. ning streak since it won seven 
While Boston College held up in a row in the 2006-07 season, through the first 15 minutes or and opened ACC play 2-0 for so, the Blue Devils’ pressure the first time since 1994-95, defense finally started to make when the Cavaliers won their a difference late in the first first four conference games. half. Duke held Boston College Georgia Tech (12-4, 1-2), without a field goal for nearly coming off a victory against eight minutes and used a 15-3 Duke, shot better than 50 per-run to turn a two-point deficit cent from the field, but strug­late in the half into a 46-35 gled mightily at the free throw edge on Singler’s alley-oop line, missing 8 of 11 attempts. dunk off a feed from Smith The Cavaliers, conversely, with 17:30 left in the game. were 23-for-26, including 14 of 
The lead reached 54-37 15 in the final 8 1/2 minutes. before Tyler Roche ended the Mustapha Farrakhan added drought with a runner with 15 points and Mike Scott 12 for 
14:40 to play, then grew steadi-Virginia. ly from there. Zackery Peacock led Georgia 
Smith matched his career Tech with 19 points and Iman high for scoring, while Singler Shumpert had 15. bounced back from a miserable Virginia trailed 55-51 until day against Georgia Tech by Sammy Zeglinski hit a 3-point­finishing with 10 rebounds. er from the left corner, only the to beat South Florida on West Virginia rebounded teams that dated to last sea-The 6-foot-8 junior had just third of the game for the Wednesday night. from a 70-68 road loss to Notre son. Virginia Tech went up 11­nine points on 2-for-13 shoot-Cavaliers. It sparked the big Bryant had 13 in the opening Dame, pulling away in the 2 and then put the game away ing in a 71-67 loss to the run that gave the home team a half, when the Mountaineers opening minutes of the second with a 35-8 run that spanned Yellow Jackets on Saturday. 67-59 lead, the biggest of the (13-2, 4-1 Big East) erased an half with Ebanks scoring eight nearly 13 minutes of the first 
The biggest disappointment game for either team, and 11-point deficit. Ebanks scored in a 16-2 surge that enabled half. for Duke, however, was that it whipped the crowd into a fren-15 and grabbed six of his 11 the Mountaineers to open a 46-Bell hit a 3-pointer with 2:43 repeated its poor outside zy. rebounds after halftime, and 32 lead with 14 minutes to go. to go and added a basket with shooting from the Georgia Tech Georgia Tech scored on its West Virginia limited USF (10-South Florida fell to 9-82 all-2:16 remaining to give the loss. The Blue Devils shot a next two possessions, both 6, 0-4) to two field goals over a time against ranked opponents, Hokies their biggest lead, 48­season-low 21 percent (6 for times on turnaround jumpers 14-minute stretch to take con-including 3-20 since joining the 13. The Hokies shot 62 percent 
28) from 3-point range in by Gani Lawal, but Landesberg trol of the game. Big East. (18 of 29) in the first half and Atlanta, then followed by going hit two free throws in between. Dominique Jones led South Jones missed his first three led 50-23 at the break. just 1 for 12 against Boston Virginia got three chances the Florida with 28 points but was shots after halftime. By the Miami (15-2, 1-2) shot just 27 College. next time down court and held without a field goal for the time he made a pair of free percent in the first half (7 of 
And with leading scorer Jon chewed up plenty of clock first 11 miuntes of the second throws with 10:49 remaining, 26) and had its seven-game Scheyer not having a strong before each shot. Finally, after half. None of his teammates the Bulls trailed by 17 and had winning streak snapped. The shooting night, the traditionally Landesberg rebounded a were able to take up the slack, only managed to score once ACC’s leader in 3-pointers perimeter-oriented Blue Devils missed free throw by Jerome and West Virginia gradually from the field during a 12-made coming into the game dominated the paint to take Meyinsse, Zeglinski hit a con-pulled away. minute stretch that began late (140) missed its first eight control. tested 3-pointer with the shot USF built an early 23-12 in the first half. attempts from beyond the arc. 
Sophomore Miles Plumlee clock running down, making it lead, making 10 of its first 14 Jarrid Famous, Chris Howard The Hurricanes were 6 of 27 had 12 points, while 7-foot 72-63 with 2:08 left and giving shots before West Virginia fin-and Mike Mercer scored six on 3s for the game. senior Brian Zoubek added six Virginia a cushion. ished the opening half on a 20-apiece for USF. Bell, who had scored in dou­points and 11 rebounds — with All Virginia had to do the rest 7 run that put the ble figures only once this sea-almost all of that coming in the of the way was make its free Mountaineers up 32-30 at the Virginia Tech 81, Miami 66 son, went 5 of 6 from the floor. second half. Duke also had 21 throws. break. Bryant led the surge, Malcolm Delaney had 28 He had never hit more than second-chance points and took Neither team led by more making a pair of 3-pointers points and a career-high nine one 3-pointer in a game in his a 40-27 edge on the glass. than six in the first half, which during an 11-0 spurt that gave assists, and Virginia Tech career, but connected on all 
As for Boston College, well, ended with the Yellow Jackets West Virginia its first lead of raced out to a 35-point lead in three of his attempts — all in everything just got worse the scoring nine of the last 11 the game. the first half on the way to an the first half. longer the game wore on. points to lead 39-38. Jones, coming off a 30-point victory over No. 23 Miami on Jeff Allen added 14 points 
The Eagles looked unfazed performance in a 17-point loss Wednesday night. and 10 rebounds for the early in rowdy Cameron Indoor West Virginia 69, USF 50 at Syracuse, was 5-for-5 while Terrell Bell scored all of his Hokies, while Dorenzo Hudson Stadium. They shot 50 percent Devin Ebanks scored 17 the Bulls were building their career-best 13 points in the had 11 points. in the first half and played with points and Darryl Bryant double-digit lead and had 19 first half for the Hokies (13-2, The Hurricanes had only one poise, getting several open added 15, helping No. 10 West points at the half on 7-for-10 1-1 ACC), who snapped a five-player in double figures. James looks on kickouts off dribble Virginia overcome a slow start shooting. game losing streak to ranked Dews led Miami with 11 points. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Available today! OFF-campus housing, Courage is rightly esteemedthe first 
Two newly renovated houses . ofhuman qualities... because itis the 
Irish Crossings and quality whichguarantees all others. 
WANTED FOR RENT PERSONAL 
1203 Hillcrest Rd Dublin Village ——————————————— FOOSBALL players wanted. HOUSE FOR RENT 3 blocks to campus - 5 BR, We want to say THANK YOU to all Criticism may not be agreeable, but Have the best table in area. 3 and 4 bdr, our student friends at Notre Dame, it is necessary. It fulfils the same High level action. $500/PERSON 2 FULL BATHS $300/mo per BR. and 705 N Eddy furnished and for the beautiful Christmas Cards. function as pain in the human body. 12-15 minutes 4 BDRM 7 blocks to campus 5 BR, unfurnished. We so appreciate each and every It calls attention to an unhealthy from ND. $250/mo per. one. May 2010 be gracious to you. state of things. Up to the challenge? **WALK TO ND** See Craigs List ad or Call: January and God bless you all. ——————————————— Call Karen 708-261-4128 or June 2010 leases -John and Lila Ritschard I am prepared to meet my Maker. 257-4441 or 54650 WILLIS Amy: 574-226-8598, available. ——————————————-Whether my Maker is prepared for 339-2838 or www.cespm.info A fanatic is one who can't change the great ordeal of meeting me is email for additional information or to see Call his mind and won't change the another matter. dmetoul@sbcglobal.net CALL 574-277-8471 the homes 574-968-0112 subject. -Winston Churchill ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ———————————————-——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Thursday, January 14, 2010 
page 13 

NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Coaches’ Poll 
team previous 
1 Texas (30) 2 2 Kentucky (1) 3 3 Kansas 1 4 Villanova 6 5 Syracuse 7 6 Purdue 4 7 Duke 5 8 Michigan State 11 9 West Virginia 8 10 Tennessee 15 11 Georgetown 12 12 Kansas State 10 13 North Carolina 9 14 Gonzaga 18 15 Connecticut 13 16 Wisconsin 20 17 BYU 23 18 Georgia Tech 17 19 Clemson 21 20 Pittsburgh NR 21 Temple 25 22 Butler 24 23 Mississippi 16 24 Baylor NR 25 Florida State 19 
NCAA Division I Women’s Basketball Coaches’ Poll 
team  previous  
1  Connecticut (31)  1  
2  Stanford  2  
3  NOTRE DAME  3  
4  Tennessee  4  
5  Ohio State  6  
6  Georgia  8  
7  Duke  9  
8  Texas A&M  10  
9  Nebraska  13  
10  Baylor  5  
11  North Carolina  7  
12  Xavier  14  
13  West Virginia  17  
14  Oklahoma  15  
15  LSU  12  
16  Florida State  11  
17  Green Bay  18  
18  Georgetown  25  
19  Oklahoma State  NR  
20  Iowa State  23  
21  Texas  20  
22  Vanderbilt  16  
23  Michigan State  21  
24  Virginia  19  
25  Syracuse  NR  



around the dial 
NBA 
Bulls at Celtics 8 p.m., TNT 
NHL 

Blue Jackets at Blackhawks 
8:30 p.m., CSN 
NFL 


Junior Seau retires after playoff loss 
Associated Press 

FOXBOROUGH, Mass. 
— Junior Seau is retir­ing again and looking ahead to more time on his surfboard. 
The 12-time Pro Bowl linebacker, who came out of retirement to rejoin the New England Patriots in their sixth game this season, said in remarks taped for broadcast Wednesday night on Showtime that he’s ending his career. 
Seau played eight games for the Patriots this season, all as a backup, finishing with last Sunday ’s 33 -14 playoff loss to Baltimore in which he made a sea­son-high five tackles. 
“That’s going to be my last game,” he said dur­ing the interview taped on Wednesday. 
That was more defini­tive than comments ear­lier in the interview when he said, “I’m going to go surf. ... Whatever happens, I can say, hon­estly say, that that prob­ably was my last game.” 
Seau first left football briefly in August 2006 after 13 seasons with San Diego and three with Miami. 
“I’m not retiring. I am graduating. Today is my graduation day,” he said then. “Retirement means that you’ll just go ahead and live on your laurels and surf all day in Oceanside (Calif.). It ain’t going to happen.” 
He signed with the Patriots four days later and started 14 of the 27 games he played for them over two seasons. He retired after the 2007 season, then came out of retirement for the final four games in 2008 before retiring after that season. 
Seau, who turns 41 on Tuesday, played seven regular-season games this season, all as a backup, and made 15 tackles. New England 
f i n i s h e d 10 -6 a n d  w o n  
the AFC East.  
T h e  P a t r i o t s  f e l l  

behind 24-0 in the first 
quarter Sunday and allowed the Ravens to rush for 234 yards. Tom Brady threw three inter­ceptions and lost a fum­ble. 
“You have to be accountable,” Seau said in the interview on Showtime ’s Inside the NFL. “He’s going to be accountable to what he did, but there’s no one, no one can be exempt in that locker room as to what happened to us against the Baltimore Ravens. And that’s talk­ing the coaches, offense, defense and special teams. So, we lost to the Baltimore Ravens because they are a bet­ter team.” 
IN BRIEF 

Rivers fined $25,000 by NBA after ejection 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — Doc Rivers was confused when he was thrown out, and even more so when he was fined. 
Especially since he says the NBA told him the call he was arguing was incorrect. 
The NBA fined the Boston Celtics coach $25,000 on Wednesday for an argument with officials that led to two quick technicals and an ejection. 
“They admit that the ... call was wrong,” Rivers said before the Celtics’ game against the New Jersey Nets. “Of all the fines I’ve ever had, this is by far the most disappointing. I just don’t get this one. I watched a couple of coach­es last week run out on the floor and no fine. I get fined for being right.” 
Rivers was irate over a flagrant foul called on Glen “Big Baby” Davis with 
6:16 left in Monday night’s game against the Atlanta Hawks. The Celtics coach drew back-to-back technicals when he didn’t stop yelling at referee Bennett Salvatore; a third “T” was called on soft-spoken assistant Armond Hill. 
Johnson wins award as top offensive players 
NEW YORK — That blur speeding away from opposing defenses and run­ning off with The Associated Press 2009 NFL Offensive Player of the Year award is Chris Johnson. Considered the fastest man in pro football, Johnson was uncatchable in setting a league mark for yards from scrimmage (2,509) and becoming the sixth player with a 2,000-yard rushing season. He is the first NFL player to finish with at least 2,000 yards rushing and 500 receiving (503). That earned the second-year pro 38½ votes Wednesday from a nationwide panel of 50 sports writers and broad­casters who cover the NFL. Johnson easily beat New Orleans quarterback Drew Brees, who received nine votes. “I kind of realize what I did and I feel like I had a dream season,” said Johnson, who scored 16 touchdowns (14 rushing), second to Minnesota’s Adrian Peterson, and tied the NFL mark with six consecutive games rush­ing for at least 125 yards. 
Tiger Woods loses free access to GM cars 
NEW YORK — General Motors Co. says an agreement with Tiger Woods that allowed the fallen golf star to have free access to its vehicles is over. 
Woods’ endorsement contract with GM’s Buick brand ended in 2008, but an arrangement remained in place that allowed him to keep several GM loaner vehicles. A spokesman says the arrangement ended on Dec. 31. 
Woods has lost a host of endorsement contracts since the Nov. 27 car crash outside his Florida home. The accident trig­gered allegations marital infideli­ty that led him to take a break from professional golf, though the GM spokesman says the vehicle arrangement had been previously scheduled to end on Dec. 31. 
USA Today reported GM’s deci­sion in a blog post Tuesday. 
page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, January 14, 2010 
Haitian players fear for the worst 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Pierre Garcon waited for word as his mother frantically tried to reach relatives in Haiti. 
Three days before what is expected to be his first career playoff game, the Indianapolis Colts receiver was without his trademark smile. 
“Aunts, uncles, nieces, nephews. We still have not heard much from them, and my mom is still trying to call them, ” Garcon said. “I’m keeping in contact with my mom. It ’s tough to get in touch with people down there because Berto wrote: “Haiti is the first black republic since 1804. Haitians are strong, powerful, prideful people but this a tough blow (to) endure, ” and “My heart bleeds for my people.” 

Garcon, a second -year player from Mount Union in Ohio, was born in Carmel, 
N.Y., and attended high school in Florida. But his parents immigrated to the United States from Haiti and most of his relatives still live there. Garcon said there are too many to count. 
Last season, Garcon went 
back to the country for his grandmother’s funeral, and he planned to 
o f  t h e  p h o n e  “Aunts, uncles,  return  in April  
lines.” G a r c o n a n d other athletes  nieces, nephews. We still have not heard  with his chari-table organiza­tion, the Pierre  
o f  H a i t i a n  much from them.”  G  a  r  c  o n  
d e s c e n t  w e r e  Foundation.  
d e v a s t a t e d Wednesday by t h e p o w e r f u l  Pierre Garcon Colts receiver  But when the 7 .0-ma g ni tu de q u a k e s t r u c k  

earthq uake that struck the capital of Port-au-Prince a day earlier and is feared to have killed thousands — per­haps more than 100,000. 
“I heard from my father and got an e-mail he was OK. That was a relief, ” Philadelphia 76ers center Samuel Dalembert said. “There are so many other people I don’t know about, relatives and friends. I’m get­ting new information all the time. It’s just really hard.” 
The 76ers planned a moment of silence and the organization is in the process of assembling funds, team spokesman Mike Preston said. 
“It’s kind of hard to fathom a situation like this because those people Tuesday, devas­

tating one of the world’s poorest nations, Garcon changed the plan. Instead of waiting until spring, Garcon jumped onto his Twitter account and start­ed asking fans for help. 
At one point, he tweeted: “We need the US military as soon as possible n haiti We need the 4 million Haitian that live out side of haiti to Act now, we need da world!” 
Garcon’s team has already joined the cause. The Colts announced in a news release Wednesday that they will donate donating $10,000 to the American Red Cross relief effort and they’re ask­ing fans to pitch in, too, by text messaging “HAITI” to 90999. A $10 donation will go to the Red Cross 

didn’t do any-“It’s so hard to watch and the charge thing wrong,” will appear on 
the TV. I feel
Dalembert the user’s cell 
helpless.” 
said. “It ’s so phone bill. hard to watch L a n c e the TV. I feel Samuel Dalembert A r m s t r o n g ’s helpless.” Livestrong foun­
76ers center 
The parents of WBC welter­weight cham­pion Andre Berto are from Haiti, and he has many relatives on the island. 
“Like many other Haitian-Americans, my family and I are working to reach my loved ones, ” Berto said. “From what we have learned to this point, some of my family members are still missing, and we have already been informed that members 
of my family have passed away in the earthquake.” 
The Miami native fought for Haiti at the Athens Olympics after barely missing the U.S. team. He’s scheduled to face Sugar Shane Mosley on Jan. 30 in Las Vegas in the biggest bout of the undefeated fight­er’s pro career, but his train­ing was interrupted by the tragedy. 
Berto (25-0, 19 KOs) has been heavily involved in charity work and relief efforts in Haiti for years. He’s working on another charity initiative to help Haiti ’s recovery from his training camp in Winter Haven, Fla. 
On his Twitter account, dation pledged 

$250,000 to 
Partners in 
Health and Doctors Without Borders and the cyclist posted a video message on his Web site from Australia, where he is preparing for the Tour of Australia. 
As he prepares for Saturday night’s playoff game against Baltimore, Garcon intends to use the NFL’s stage as a pulpit to seek more assistance in the recovery effort. 
“That (Twitter) is how we got the pictures out, the word out; that’s been really help­ful,” Garcon said. “Spreading the word and helping others is really what it’s all about, and this is the best situation to do that now.” 
Coach Jim Caldwell and teammates offered their sup­port, help and prayers for Garcon, who is coming off a breakout season and is expected to play Saturday despite missing the last two games with a bruised hand. 
“It ’s hard, not knowing what’s going to happen,” he said. “The rebuilding process is going to take forever.” 
NBA 

Griffin to end season with surgery 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES — Blake Griffin’s first season with the Los Angeles Clippers is over before it even began. 
Griffin will have surgery on his broken left kneecap, keep­ing the No. 1 draft pick out for at least more four months, the eternally star-crossed Clippers announced in a statement Wednesday. 
Griffin hasn’t played a regu­lar-season game yet for the Clippers after injuring his kneecap in their final presea­son game Oct. 23, wincing in pain as he landed after a dunk. After resting the stress fracture for several weeks, the former Oklahoma star recently increased his work­load in rehabilitation by run­ning on a treadmill. 
But the power forward recently developed pain in his knee while jumping in a pool, and an examination Tuesday revealed his recovery wasn’t progressing properly. 
“It’s a little disappointing, because he brings so much to the table,” Clippers coach Mike Dunleavy said on a con­ference call. “As a group, we’re coming together better all the time, and adding that talent to our lineup was some­thing we were looking for­ward to.” 
After a loss in Memphis on Tuesday, the Clippers will play at New Orleans on Wednesday night before returning to Los Angeles for a road game against the Lakers on Friday. Dunleavy hadn’t spoken to his team since learning Griffin won’t be back until next sea­son. 
“I think the reaction is going to be one of disappointment, but he hasn’t been here all year,” Dunleavy said. “We’ve just got to move forward and do what we were planning on doing anyway — making the playoffs.” 
Being the top pick hasn’t been such an honor in recent NBA drafts. Griffin is the sec­ond No. 1 selection in the past three years to miss his entire first season with an injury. 
Greg Oden, the Ohio State center chosen by the Portland Trail Blazers in 2007, had microfracture surgery on his right knee three months after the draft. Last month, Oden also broke his left kneecap and was lost for the rest of this season. 
cleared before Griffin could rejoin the Clippers in practice. He has been a constant pres­ence at Clippers games and in film sessions during his injury. 
“Blake learned a lot off the court (during his injury),” Dunleavy said. “He’s been very much in tune with every­thing we’re doing, and he’s just going to continue in that mode. I think he’ll come back next season more prepared.” 
Griffin’s woes sadly can’t be surprising to fans of a team with just two winning seasons in the last 30 years and just one playoff series victory since moving to town in 1984. 
The Clippers also have a long history of disappointing 
draft picks, 
including a pair 
of No. 1 overall 
Griffin was “It’s a little choices that did-the consensus n’t dazzle. 
disappointing, 
college player D a n n y
because he brings so
of the year Manning played with 22.7 much to the table.” just 26 games in points and an his rookie sea-NCAA -best son in 1988-89 
Mike Dunleavy 
14.4 rebounds after tearing his 
Clippers coach 
per game last knee ligament 
season for the Sooners, and the Clippers eagerly chose him in last June’s draft. 
Griffin averaged 13.7 points and 8.1 rebounds during the preseason, and coach Mike Dunleavy and his new team­mates all expected him to be a major part of their comeback season. Instead, Griffin has never been fully healthy in Los Angeles, even straining his right shoulder during summer league play in Las Vegas. 
The pool exercises were part of the last hurdles to be and undergoing 
surgery, though he eventually became an All-Star before fleeing town. Michael Olowokandi, the top pick in 1998, played just 45 games in his rookie season, and he wasn’t much help even when healthy during five underachieving seasons. 
Dunleavy also said leading scorer Chris Kaman wouldn’t play against New Orleans. Kaman, averaging 20.4 points and 9.4 rebounds, had an MRI exam after apparently aggra­vating his sore lower back during warmups in Memphis. 
Thursday, January 14, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
ITF 

Officials want to keep Davis Cup 
Associated Press 
LONDON — The International Tennis Federation defended its Davis Cup competition on Wednesday following a pro­posal by leading men’s play­ers for a World Cup-style tournament. 
Serbian player Novak Djokovic, who is on the ATP Player Council along with top-ranked Roger Federer and No. 2 Rafael Nadal, said “we proposed it ... but it’s all fresh and it’s all ideas.” 
The World Cup would likely be a 10-day biennial tourna­ment with 32 teams, played at a single venue. It would feature several rule changes, including mandatory substi­tutions during a match. 
“This proposal, also shown to the ITF, has some interest­ing elements and, of course, timely branding, given the current worldwide fascina­tion with the 2010 FIFA World Cup. It also has many challenges that must be faced if it is to succeed,” the ITF said in a statement. “Everyone is in agreement that a nation vs. nation for­mat is very attractive, some­thing Davis Cup has recog­nized for over a century, and only time will tell if a new competition can earn a regu­lar place in the tennis calen­dar.” 
The 110 -year-old Davis Cup pits countries against each other on several week­ends during the tennis sea­son. Many top players skip Davis Cup to take time off during the packed tennis cal­endar. 
Djokovic said all sides would be considered before a decision was made. 
“The main point is that we are trying to make the sport improve,” Djokovic said. “The players are the ones who are making the show and their opinions have to be greatly considered.” 
Djokovic said discussions were only at a very prelimi­nary stage and he expected dialogue among players, player representatives and tournament organizers to continue at the Australian Open in Melbourne, which starts Monday. 
Each team would be required to use at least two players per five-set match. The World Cup would feature a clock giving players a max­imum 25 seconds between points and tiebreakers would be won by the first team to five, according to The Times 
of London. Also, the 32 teams would be split into eight groups of four, with the top two advancing to the knockout rounds. 
Australian Open tourna­ment director Craig Tiley issued a two-sentence state­ment to the Associated Press on Thursday. 
“We think the concept is innovative, refreshing and thoughtfully put together,” he said. “Any initiative that will further expose our sport and will grow its participa­tion, particularly in Australia but also worldwide, has to be great for tennis.” 
British player Andy Murray seemed to be intrigued by the proposal. 
“I am a great fan of the Davis Cup, but if a decision was taken to drop it, or something else could change in the calendar, then a World Cup is a fascinating idea,” Murray told The Times. 

The Davis Cup has weath­ered other major changes in the game, including the move to professionalism in 1968 and the advent of the ATP tour. 
“While Davis Cup has evolved and modernized over the years, it has not lost its intrinsic values based around the home-and-away format that attracts great support from fans, sponsors, television and the players themselves who enjoy play­ing in front of their home country fans,” the ITF said. 
The ITF also noted that it has a five-year contract with the ATP World Tour “guaran­teeing dates and ranking points.” 
The concept is being pitched by gemba, a Melbourne-based marketing and sponsorship firm. Spokesman James Hird was traveling to Los Angeles and unavailable for comment, the company said. 
The idea has been shown to organizers of three of the four tennis Grand Slam events. 
Australian Open tourna­ment director Craig Tiley told The Times he thought the concept was innovative and would help grow partici­pation in the sport. 
Tiley was not immediately available for further com­ment on Thursday, four days ahead of the season’s first major. 

NFL 

Colts prepare with tough practices 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS — The Indianapolis Colts felt like they spent last week at boot camp. 
Four-time MVP Peyton Manning tested himself against his own defense, the tempo was quick and the intensity increased. To first-year coach Jim Caldwell, this is how you use a bye week to get ready — not rusty — for the playoffs. 
“It really got the competitive juices flowing,” defensive end Dwight Freeney said. “The only difference between a game and a hard practice for the defense is the finishing of a tackle. We are going full speed. We are running and we are fighting.” 
Worried Colts fans couldn’t seek a better endorsement for change, though they’ll certain­ly withhold judgment about the effectiveness of Caldwell’s new tactics until see­ing results. 
“It really got the
The annual rewind time, debate over competitive juices don’t have a Indy’s playoff fowing.” time machine. preparation has The only thing generated we can do is 
Dwight Freeney 
national atten-focus on the tion this year Colts defensive end task at hand.” 
of Tony Dungy’s son, James, in December 2005 hurt the Colts’ chances that year, too — more than people realized. 
“I can tell you that that really took a big toll on us,” Polian said five weeks ago. “How much? I don’t know, but cer­tainly a heck of a lot more than not playing guys.” 
So when the Colts (14-2) locked up the AFC’s top seed in mid-December, Polian refused to take any additional risks. 
Players, some of whom were disappointed they got yanked against the Jets, understand the strategy. This year, they’ve had their longest break between meaningful games yet, 29 days. 
Yet they don’t believe in the rust theory. 
“It’s a whole different year. It’s a different feel,” receiver 
Reggie Wayne 
said. “We don’t 
have a crystal 
ball, can’t 
because of the team’s decision to rest starters and focus on the postseason rather than playing for a per­fect season. 
The storylines are familiar to local fans. 
Since 1999, the Colts are 0-3 in the playoffs after earning first-round byes. Their next chance comes Saturday night against Baltimore in the first playoff game held at the 2­year-old Lucas Oil Stadium. 
Critics contend Indy’s post­season failures are the result of long breaks late in the sea­son, which got the team’s tim­ing offense out of sync. Rustiness. 
They point to C l e a r l y, 

though, 
Caldwell has changed up things. 
He played the starters until midway through the third quarter against the New York Jets on Dec. 27, and kept the Colts’ offense on the field at Buffalo until it scored a touch­down in the finale. Those were longer cameo appearances than Dungy traditionally gave his teams. 
Caldwell, players say, also has done a better job keeping them fresh throughout the sea­son. Last week, Caldwell changed the script again, turn­ing the focus back to funda­mentals and a sharp mentality 
2005, when the Colts played their starters sparingly over  “We don’t have a crystal ball, can’t rewind time, don’t  to keep things competitive. On Wednesday, all 22 players on  
the last two weeks of the regular season  have a time machine.”  the injury report participated in practice.  
and then lost to  “We  have  a  
eventual Super Bowl champion  Reggie Wayne Colts receiver  period, even today, that we’ll  

Pittsburgh 21­

18. They point to 2007, when Indy went near­ly three weeks without a meaningful game and then lost 28-24 to San Diego. And they cite 2006, when the Colts won the regular-season finale to earn the No. 3 seed, and then won four straight in the post­season to bring home the Lombardi Trophy. 
Those inside the Colts’ com­plex believe injuries — and tragedy — provide better explanations for the failures. 
In 1999, linebacker Cornelius Bennett went down with a knee injury in the regular-sea­son finale at Buffalo and missed the divisional-round game against Tennessee. The Titans won 19-16. 
In 2007, Indy failed to put much pressure on San Diego’s quarterbacks because it had lost Freeney with a season-ending foot injury in November. Team president Bill Polian told radio listeners last month that the shocking death go some ones 
versus ones,” Caldwell said Tuesday. “But last week we did a lot. We were able to get a lot of work done, maybe the three best practices we’ve had in a long time.” 
Will the changes be enough to avoid another early exit? 
Maybe. 

But one thing the Colts insist is not up for debate is that they are not rusty this year. They are healthy, rested, ready and clicking. 
“Obviously, we hope things are different. I think we’ve done a great job up to this point keeping guys as healthy as possible, so hopefully we’ll be flying around,” Freeney said. “There is no better offense than our offense, in my mind. Going against our offense will prepare us for any other offense that we play. If we’re able to stop our offense, we should be in a lot better shape going against anybody else.” 
page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, January 14, 2010 
SERIE A 

Inter striker faces racism in Italian stadiums 
Associated Press 
PARIS — Mario Balotelli endures abuse that no 19­year-old should suffer — for no other reason than because he is black. 
There is the ugly graffiti on walls leading to the San Siro stadium, where the Inter Milan striker plays. “Non sei un vero Italiano, sei un Africano nero,” it says. Translation: “You are not a true Italian, you are a black African.” 
There are the unprintable racist chants and vicious boos he hears when he plays, and which live on even after matches are over in videos on the Internet. There was the time in Rome last June when, his sister says, hooligans threatened him and hurled a bunch of bananas into the bar where Balotelli was relaxing with fellow players from Italy’s under-21 squad, prompting the owner to call the police. 
And what has the Italian league done in response to the insults he regularly faces? Unbelievably, it slapped Balotelli with a euro7,000 ($10,000) fine last week. 
“It’s like the world is upside down,” Cristina Balotelli says. “It’s ridiculous, and I think my brother just doesn’t want to think about it because he is so disgusted.” 

In a fairer world, all you’d need to know about Balotelli is that he is young, gifted, quick, muscular, scores goals and is nicknamed “Super Mario.” He joined Inter in 2006. He made his first team debut in December of the fol­lowing year, aged just 17, as a late substitute in a 2-0 win against Cagliari. Two days after that, he scored twice in a 4-1 crushing of Reggina. With a total of 23 goals in 68 appearances for the 17-time Italian champions, a call-up to Italy’s national squad may not be far off. 
But the racists who have long soiled Italian football don’t see Balotelli’s skills, just the color of his skin. Even when Inter is not playing, he has been targeted for abuse. Prosecutors in France are investigating taunts about Balotelli that Juventus sup­porters shouted when the club played French champions Bordeaux in the Champions League last November, says the French anti-racist group that is pushing for criminal and sporting punishments in the probe. 
Juventus fans again sang racist slurs directed at Balotelli on Wednesday, con­tinuing despite a plea made over Stadio Olimpico’s public address system asking them to stop. 
Speaking by phone with The Associated Press, Cristina Balotelli said it is a testament to his force of character that her brother, somehow, man­ages not to be cowed by the hatred flowing from a vocal minority of “very ignorant people” who “need an enemy and they need someone to curse.” So far, he also has resisted the temptation of leaving it behind by going 
overseas, to the English Premier League, for example, where there has been talk of interest from clubs such as Arsenal or Chelsea. 
“He gets very upset but then ... he doesn’t think about it anymore, this is a strength,” his sister says. “Of course, I know that he is hurt. 
“If he decides to go abroad, it shouldn’t just be because of this,” she adds. “It’s like to run away, it’s like to be defeated.” 
Such outrages in Italy have gone on for years. In 2001, when 18-year-old Nigerian forward Schengun Omolade took the field for Treviso, fans hoisted a banner that said, “We don’t want a black player on our team” and then left the stadium. Before that, hooli­gans in Rome held aloft a large banner aimed at oppos­ing Jewish fans: “Auschwitz Is Your Country; the Ovens Are Your Homes.” In 2005, Ivorian defender Marc Zoro was reduced to tears by racist boos and insults hurled at him by Inter supporters. 
There’s been talk, talk and more talk about how such behavior is unacceptable. There have been modest fines, bans and threats from up high in the football world that matches could be suspended or that clubs could even be sent down to lower leagues or stopped from playing. 
And yet, as Balotelli knows too well, still it goes on. Deep-rooted racism is not restricted to Italian football — as was shown last week when violent clashes erupted between African crop-pickers and local residents in southern Italy. 
After those riots, in which dozens were injured, Cristina Balotelli found herself fending off calls from reporters look­ing for comment from her brother, as if he must have something to say as one of the few high-profile black Italian success stories. That, in itself, suggests how widely Balotelli is marked out for his color in Italy rather than because he’s an Italian teenager who is good at football, the national sporting passion. 
“I said, ‘What has my broth­er got to do with this?’” she says. “I want my brother to lead his life without having all these burdens on his shoul­ders.” 
“We don’t have black politi­cians. We have very few blacks who are in important positions,” she adds. “He became a symbol of too many things.” 
At times, for those 19-year­old shoulders, it all becomes too much. 
A week ago in Verona, in a match Inter won thanks to Balotelli’s lone goal, he again heard insults and boos, directed, he said, both at him­self and Luciano of Brazil, who also is black. In response, Balotelli mocked the crowd by ironically applauding when he was sub­stituted and by saying in a post-match TV interview that “the fans are more and more sickening.” 
The Italian league’s fine fol­lowed the next day. If Inter’s subsequent appeal is rejected, then it will be a victory for hooligans — because now they know that by provoking Balotelli, they can get him punished, too. 
“He just applauded for two seconds,” his brother, Corrado, told the AP. “It’s crazy.” 

Thursday, January 14, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
MLB 

Instant replay rules will be reviewed 
Associated Press 
PARADISE VALLEY, Ariz. — Expanded instant replay is on the agenda for the first meet­ing of Major League Baseball’s newly formed com­mittee of managers and long­time executives on Thursday. 
The 14-man committee also will discuss expanding the first round of the playoffs to best of seven and ways to eliminate lengthy breaks dur­ing the postseason. 
As owners and general managers met at a mountain­side resort on Wednesday, commissioner Bud Selig said he will raise the replay issue. 
“I’ll probably bring that up,” Selig said. 
Following a series of blown calls by umpires during the playoffs, many said baseball should expand video review, there are days we can elimi­nate, and should.” 

Selig spent 2 hours meeting with general managers on Wednesday. Selig declined to divulge the topics of discus­sion but said it was a con­structive session, and he wants to have more frequent meetings with GMs. 
“It’s an honor any time the commissioner has one -on ­ones with you,” Yankees gen­eral manager Brian Cashman said. “He’s a busy man. His time’s important. We appreci­ate that he thinks enough to have us out here and ask us our opinion on the game.” 
“He was there to obviously give us direction but also to hear our voices,” Arizona general manager Josh Byrnes said. 
Also Wednesday, Selig said 
he did not 
expect other 
which began in 2 0 0 8 a n d i s l i m i t e d t o whether poten­ “I’ve encouraged this group to be very blunt, talk about  s m a l l -m a r k e t c l u b s t o c o m e under pressure to boost payrolls  
tial home a r e f a i r  runs a n d  anything they want.”  after the peren­n i a l l y f r u g a l  
whether balls  Florida Marlins  
g o  o v e r  t h e  Bud Selig  r e a c h e d  a n  
fence.  MLB commissioner  agreement with  

Selig would-n’t predict where the replay discussion might lead. 
“What I want tomorrow, I want them to discuss every­thing,” Selig said. “I really want to hear from them. I’ve encouraged this group to be very blunt, talk about any­thing they want.” 
The “special committee for 
on -field matters” includes managers Tony La Russa, Jim Leyland, Joe Torre and Mike Scioscia. 
Hall of Famer Frank Robinson, who is black, is the only minority on the panel. 
The committee includes Baltimore president for base­ball operations Andy MacPhail, Cleveland general manager Mark Shapiro, Atlanta president John Schuerholz and former Minnesota GM Terry Ryan. 
There are four owner rep­resentatives: Toronto presi­dent Paul Beeston, Philadelphia president Dave Montgomery, Seattle presi­dent Chuck Armstrong and St. Louis chairman Bill DeWitt. Political columnist George Will also is on the panel. 
Scioscia was livid with the number of off days during the last postseason, and Selig has promised to re-examine the format, which added four extra off -days starting in 2007 at the behest of the sport’s broadcast networks. 
New union head Michael Weiner said last month play­ers may propose during the next round of bargaining in 2011 to expand the first round of the playoffs from best-of-five. 
“The problem is, everybody wants to talk about going into November, but then they want to add on to the schedule,” Selig said. “You always have to think about postponements and travel. 
“Look, I didn’t say we couldn’t do better,” Selig said. “I do have some ideas. Yes, the players’ 

union to 
increase spend­ing. The Marlins’ agreement came in the wake of com ­plaints the team payroll has been so small as to violate baseball’s revenue sharing provisions. 
Baseball’s labor contract calls for each club to use its revenue sharing receipts in an effort to improve the team. In recent years, the union has complained the requirement was not met by some clubs, including the Marlins. 
“There are a lot of small-market clubs spending a lot of money, frankly,” Selig said. “I think that was a situation with Florida that we’ve been working on for a long time, and I think it was a good result.” 
Pittsburgh chairman Bob Nutting said he wasn’t con­cerned the Pirates’ payroll, typically among the lowest in baseball, would come under scrutiny. He said the team has invested in player devel­opment and scouting. 
“I think the fixation just at the major league club’s sin­gle-number payroll doesn’t tell the whole story for the Pirates of where we’re invest­ing and how we’re building the team,” Nutting said. “I’m comfortable what we’re doing is the right thing for Pittsburgh.” 
The Pirates are mired in a string of 17 straight losing seasons, the longest streak in 
U.S. major pro sports history. 

Selig had little to say about former slugger Mark McGwire’s admission that he used steroids. The commis­sioner said he spent Sunday night revising his statement 
on the matter, which he issued on Monday. 
“I knew beforehand, but not much,” Selig said. “This was his desire to go public, and obviously I’ve talked a lot to Tony (La Russa) and Bill DeWitt (the Cardinals’ chair­man).” 
Belles 
continued from page 24 

Mary’s battled and even con­trolled the area under the basket for some time. They rebounded well during the game, especially senior Anna Kammrath. 
The forward had an all-around stellar game, especially on the boards. She set a single-game school record with 23 rebounds. Kammrath fell one short of set­ting the MIAA single-game record. 
Despite the loss, the Belles did have some promising perform­ances. Kammrath led all Belles scores with 18 points with soph­omore Patsy Mahoney adding 17. 
The Belles, now 8-5, 3-2 in the MIAA, will prepare for another conference game at Olivet Saturday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Tim Sigler at tsigler@nd.edu 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
No. 1 Texas edges Iowa St. 90-83 

Associated Press 

AMES, Iowa — Texas reached No. 1 for the first time in school history without hav­ing to lean too heavily on high­ly touted freshman Avery Bradley. 
Bradley seems ready to play a much larger role for the loaded Longhorns—as he did in their first win as a top-ranked team on Wednesday night. 
Bradley scored 24 points, including 16 in the second half, and top-ranked Texas overcame its first Big 12 road test of the season by beating Iowa State 90-83 Wednesday night. 
Damion James added 23 points and 14 rebounds for the unbeaten Longhorns (16-0, 2­0), who opened the second half with a 16-4 run and never trailed again. 
“I just feel like I’m getting more comfortable playing with my teammates. I’m just learn­ing the game in college,” Bradley said. “It’s more my teammates trusting me and believing in me and them get­ting me the ball when I’m open. And when they did, I just made the shot.” 
Over and over again. 

Bradley, who had a career-high 29 points in a win over Colorado on Saturday, shot 10 of 14 from the floor and added six assists, six rebounds, three steals— and no turnovers. 
He’s shot 22 of 28 from the field in his last two games, including all seven 3-pointers. 
“Avery just keeps getting better and better, and what he does, he really works hard on both ends of the floor,” Texas coach Rick Barnes said. “He’s obviously playing extremely well offensively, but the reason he’s out there (is) because he has become a guy that really defends.” 
Marquis Gilstrap had 20 points and 13 rebounds for Iowa State (11-5, 0-1), which lost its 16th straight to ranked opponents since 2006. 
The Cyclones cut the lead to 83-76 on LaRon Dendy’s dunk with 3:03 left. But Texas ran a minute off the clock by con­trolling the boards, and Jai Lucas hit two free throws to make it 85-76. 
Craig Brackins had 18 points and Lucca Staiger had 17 for the Cyclones, who shot just 1 of 10 from 3-point range after a scorching first half from beyond the arc. 
Iowa State buried six of its first nine 3-pointers to jump ahead 44-42. But the Longhorns erased a rare half­time deficit with their one of their trademark bursts, scor­ing 10 points in the opening 
1:38 of the second half to go ahead 52-44. 
Bradley kept the Cyclones at bay with three 3-pointers mid­way through the second half, and he followed Gary Johnson’s turnaround with another 3 to put the Longhorns ahead 78-65 with 
6:47 left. 

While Bradley is just begin­ning a career he hopes will end in the record books, James etched his in Big 12 lore. 
With his 14 rebounds, James became the Big 12’s leader in career boards. He has 1,147 rebounds, breaking the mark of 1,143 set by former Kansas star Nick Collison. 
“It’s cool, I guess. But I don’t really get into that type of stuff, man. I’m just all about this team,” James said. “I plan on just crushing the record where nobody else can get it.” 
Iowa State entered the game in a midseason crisis. 
The Cyclones had won five of their last six, but needed two overtimes to get past Houston at home and was thumped by No. 8 Duke 86-65 in Chicago. 
Cyclones coach Greg McDermott suspended talented freshman point guard Chris Colvin until at least February for a violation of team rules. Iowa State then finished non-conference play by squeaking past North Dakota State, 73­71, on Saturday. 
But the Cyclones became just the second team all season to stay within 10 points of the Longhorns, which could serve as a morale boost in confer­ence play. 
“I felt like we competed great. If we can just carry this over, it can help us out throughout the Big 12,” Brackins said. “The Big 12 is one of the strongest confer­ences from top to bottom. You have to bring it everyday. 
For all that Texas has accomplished under coach Rick Barnes — 11 straight trips to the NCAA tournament, three regional finals in seven years and a spot in the 2003 Final Four—it had never reached the top spot in the polls until Monday. 
If Texas wants to hang onto the lofty ranking, though, it’s going to have to earn it. The Longhorns host Texas A&M on Saturday before trips to No. 13 Kansas State and No. 15 Connecticut next week. 
But the Longhorns appear stronger than ever thanks to Bradley’s emergence as both a scorer and defender. 
“We feel like every game we play, there’s a big old target on our back because we’re Texas. I guess, with the No. 1 spot, it made it that much bigger,” James said. 
page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, January 14, 2010 


Brothers 
continued from page 20 
high praise for the tandem and adds that the sibling rivalry works to the brothers’ advantage when training. 
“First of all, they’re both 17-foot vaulters,” Piane said. 
Welsh 
continued from page 20 
Northwestern this weekend when they face Michigan State at Rolfs Aquatic Center. After facing the Spartans the team will prepare for the approaching Big East Championships next month in Pittsburgh. 
Welsh’s experience and expertise in this sport will be a key advantage for the Irish as they look to secure their sixth Big East title in six sea-
Gameday 
continued from page 20 
McGraw has guided the Irish to a sensational 15-0 start to the season, but Saturday’s contest will be their toughest challenge yet. In addition to the talent on the court, the Huskies are averaging close to 10,000 fans per game in Gampel Pavilion. 
“It’s not a game where there’s any pressure on us to win,” McGraw said. “I think because the game is at UConn, the Gameday event is definite­ly geared towards them and their fans. They’re the No. 1 team in the nation, and they’ve earned that right to have the publicity be about them. It’s fine with us. We’re very content to be the under­dog in this game.” 
ESPN College Gameday made its debut in 1993 as Notre Dame hosted Florida State in a matchup of the top two football teams in the country. Like the first pre­miere, the Irish hope to break in the show with a victory. 
“The first ever Gameday “But they are competitive not only with their opponents in meets, but with each other in practice.” 
Matt and Kevin may com­pete against each other on a daily basis, but those battles will heat up even more at the season progresses and the Irish head into Big East com­petition. 
sons. For Welsh, the road to success here at Notre Dame has been a long one. 
In Welsh’s 24 seasons, the Irish posted a 287-154 record. The consistent powerhouse has finished in the top four of the Big East in each of the last 11 seasons. 
Before coaching at Notre Dame, Welsh spent eight sea­sons as head coach of the Johns Hopkins men’s and women’s teams. During those eight seasons he led the team to two Division II National Championships and eight con­ference championships. 
was here for a football game, and that’s kind of how the whole Gameday thing got started,” McGraw said. “So it’s kind of fun that Notre Dame gets to be involved in the first historic event, now for women’s basketball. I think that really makes it exciting for the team that Notre Dame was chosen.” 
Despite the overwhelming distractions, senior guard Ashley Barlow is confident the team’s resolve and focus will outweigh any challenges the hype may bring. 
“Since it is Gameday we have to go out there and show the world what we can do,” Barlow said. “We’re going to go out there like it’s a regular game, play to the best of our abilities, have confidence in each other, and believe that we can win.” 
Echoing her teammate’s thoughts, senior guard Melissa Lechlitner said she believes sticking to the team’s strengths and avoiding the inevitable buildup is the best plan for success. 
“We haven’t really talked about the fact that it’s Gameday,” Lechlitner said. 

The two will get their first chance of the year to compete against each other and other vaulters this weekend at the Notre Dame Indoor Opener, beginning Friday at the Loftus Sports Complex at 7 p.m. 

Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

Welsh began as the coach of the men’s and women’s teams before they split into two sep­arate programs. The men’s team began in the Midwestern Collegiate Conference before switching to the Big East. While in the MCC, the Irish won 15 conference champi­onships under Welsh. 
For Welsh, another confer­ence title would be an addi­tion to a long list of accom­plishments in his illustrious career. 

Contact Andrew Owens at aowens@nd.edu 

“We’re just going out like it’s any other game. Basically, we’re trying to stay in a bub­ble right now and avoid every­thing the media is saying and what the fans and everyone outside are saying. We’re just trying to stay within the team and within ourselves right now.” 
More than anything else, McGraw will be relieved when the media’s attention is no longer a factor in her players’ performance. Although Notre Dame finished with a convinc­ing 81-64 victory over South Florida Tuesday, the game’s outcome was still uncertain late in the second half. 
“It was hard for them because the fans and their friends on campus and every­body’s talking only about Gameday, and we had two games before that, so I thought we lost our focus for a little bit,” McGraw said. “But now we can finally focus on it, and I think that makes it a lit­tle bit easier on them.” 
College Gameday airs live at 10 a.m. on ESPN Saturday. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
Recruits 
continued from page 20 


Tommy Rees. Only defensive end Chris Martin and defen­sive back Toney Hurd have withdrawn their verbal com­mitments to Notre Dame since Weis’ firing. 
“So far I think [Kelly] has done a really good job keeping those players committed,” Frank said. “That’s not always an easy task wit h a whole bunch of new coaches coming in that these kids don’t have a relationship with. It’s a leap of faith that a lot of these kids that are committed are going to make.” 
Though recruiting is always near the top of a coach’s to-do list, Frank said it has been Kelly’s top priority since his hiring Dec. 10. 
“The big focus was to get a great staff and make sure he’s got in place the right types of coaches,” Frank said. “I know a lot of people wanted big-name coaches, but I think what he did was smart in that he got a bunch of people he knows and has worked with at various stages of his career. 
“I used to be one of those guys who thought, get as many big-name recruiting guys as you can, but the more you follow it, the more you realize how important chem­istry is on a coaching staff. I think that was priority num­ber one.” 
With the Feb. 3 National Signing Day looming, Kelly and his staff will continue to reach out to both committed and uncommitted players in the coming weeks, with the hopes of landing a few more players to fill out the Class of 2010. 
“Right now, this is a solid class but there’s not a whole lot of star power in there,” Frank said. “You don’t need a ton of stars, what you need is some good football players. It’s important for him to land some guys, especially on the offensive line. Another defen­sive lineman, pass-rusher type. A safety would be ideal, although that might be tough, and a linebacker would be good but tough as well. 
“I think they’ll have a shot to land some of these guys, and they have been doing a good job getting in with these guys.” 
Notre Dame remains in con­tention for several of the nation’s top uncommitted recruits, including Seantrel Henderson, the five-star offen­sive tackle from St. Paul, Minn. Other top targets include offensive tackle Matt James (Cincinnati, Ohio), ath­lete Anthon y Barr (Los Angeles, Calif.), defensiv e lineman Ego Ferguson (Frederick, Md.) and line ­
b ack er  Christi an  Jon es  
(Oviedo, Fla.).  
Frank said landing  one  or  

more of those prospects would be impressive considering the short timetable with which Kelly and his staff have to work, and that would likely be a good sign for the future of Notre Dame’s recruiting. 
“But if they don’t [sign any], I don’t think it says anything about the future in recruit­ing,” Frank said. “It’s a diffi­cult situation for anybody to come into. Look at Urban Meyer’s first class at Florida, Pete Carroll’s first at USC — they weren’t impressive. 
“If they are able to land a couple guys it says quite a bit, but recruiting is a marathon and it’s about building rela­tionships and trust. You just can’t do that in three weeks.” 
Contact Matt Gamber at 
mgamber@nd.edu 



1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  
19  20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  27  28  29  
30  31  32  33  
34  35  36  
37  38  39  40  41  42  
43  44  45  46  
47  48  49  50  51  
52  53  54  55  56  
57  58  59  60  61  
62  63  64  65  66  
67  68  
69  70  71  

Thursday, January 14, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 

Across 37*Role played by 1 Flap child star Carl 4 Best-selling Switzer author Tami 41*Shade provider 8 Jughead's 
43It's often given in 
topper 
greeting
14*Becomingslower, in music 44“___ well …” 16“Dover Beach” 46High-fashion poet inits. 17*First track on 
many a 47*Long smoke 

Broadway album 49Frequent word in 18Department Psalms store department 
52Break the seal 
19Prefix with 
on
sphere20Figure (out) 53Turns down 22Baa-aad 55Accelerate 
mother? sharply23Sheik's home 
57Backer's word 

25Its punch isspiked 59Descendant of the smallsword 
27G-rated oath 30Billy Idol 61Soft-rock singer expression Vannelli 32*Deli choice 
62Duke's home 
34Mid second-

century year 65*Book reviewers,for example 
35It can follow anything 67Rich couple on 36Singer Sumac the Titanic 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

H E L M S  A G E  S M O C K  
A D  I  E U  X E D  T O M E  I  
S W O R D L  I  L Y  A R E N T  
P I  N E S O L  A R A L  
E N E  B L O W D R Y E R S  
D A L E S  A R  I  D  S T O A  
W O N  A L S O  T A P  
N E W W O R L D O R D E R  
D I  X  S H E L  N E E  
I N T O  A L A  I  S T A P H  
F E E L D R O W S Y  N  I  A  
R E A M  L U C K  I  E R  
B R  I  A R  F  I  E L D W O R K  
A D O R E  A R T  L A N C E  
M A R Y S  Y E S  V  I  S E D  

68What some scholarly texts(and the 10­Downs to all the starred clues)have 
69Members of Grand Lodges70Quietude 71Before, in a ballade 
Down 
1 “Hawai.i ___”(island song) 
2 Three-time Olympic goldmedalist Gail 
3 Kind of band 4 Baldness 
remedy?5 Millstone 6 Tight as___ 7 Pops one's cork 8 Carpenter's
sound, at times 9 Pennsylvaniacounty or its
seat 10See 68-Across 11Aromatic 
arrangements12Corsica, parexemple13Self-appointedgroup, for short?15Setting for anannual New York film festival 21Charge 200%for, maybe24Severelychastise 26Pieces byThomas Paine 28Bandoleer 
contents 29Oven feature 31Rummaged
(through)33Comparativelyclipped 

WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Puzzle by Trip Payne  
37Food brand that wasthe sole sponsor of thefirst “60 Minutes” broadcast 38___second 39Bachelor's area,perhaps40Title role in a 1980s sitcom 421947 Rodgersand Hammerstein musical  45It may displaythe alphabet 48“Changing thesubject …” 50Head in the clouds? 51Person who might take abow 54The Pont Royalspans it  56Grace under fire 58Fetch 60Nos. onterminal monitors 62It goes againstthe flow 63G8 member 6413-Down piles:Abbr. 66Suffix with exist  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a creditcard, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&Tusers: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visitnytimes.com/mobilexword for more information.Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Thursday, January 14, 2010 page 20 
ND TRACK & FIELD 

Schipper siblings fight for Big East pole vault title 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Among the many standouts on this year’s promising Irish squad are brothers Matt and Kevin Schipper. The tandem has led Notre Dame as one of the best one-two punches in pole vaulting in the Big East for the last two years. 
In the first indoor event of the season, the Blue and Gold Invitational on Dec. 3, the two finished first and second with Kevin as the winner and Matt as a close runner-up. 

Matt, a senior, has been a top Big East performer for the last several years. Last year, Matt earned victories at the Blue and Gold Invitational, the Notre Dame Invitational and the Big East Indoor Championships. Later in the season, Matt claimed his sec­ond conference title with a pole vault victory at the Big East outdoor championships. 
Matt has consistently improved over the years as both his statistics and his results have improved with experience. His freshman year he placed fifth with a 4.65­meter mark at the Big East outdoor championship and fol­lowed that up the next year with a fourth place finish with a jump of 4.95 meters and a vault of 5.06 meters at the NCAA Championships. 
Last year was the best of his career as he finished fifth in the NCAA Championships with a personal best of 5.16 meters. 
This year, Matt will face stiff competition in his quest for a second consecutive Big East sweep in the pole vault from someone he has known his entire life — his younger brother. 
Kevin, a sophomore, burst onto the pole vaulting scene as a freshman last year with a second place finish at the Big East indoor championships, placing fourth with a mark of 5.10 meters. 
He will be gunning for his brother’s title and has already shown he can be a challenge after a second place finish at the Blue and Gold Invitational with a 4.80-meter vault. 
The brothers have certainly displayed their dominance of the Big East in their perform­ances last year and look ready to do the same this year. 
Irish coach Joe Piane has 
see BROTHERS/page 18 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Standing in the spotlight 
Showdown vs. UConn featured on Gameday 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will make ESPN history once again this week­end as the Irish take on the Connecticut Huskies in the network’s premiere of Women’s Basketball College Gameday. Although the matchup features two of the nation’s top three teams bat­tling for Big East supremacy, conference standings have taken a backseat to the Gameday hype. 

“We’re just so excited to be part of the whole Gameday atmosphere,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “I know this crowd is going to come out, and the fans will be very supportive of the entire day. It’s going to be a historic event for women’s basketball, and we’re thrilled to be a part of it.” PATCOVENEY/TheObserver 
Senior guard Lindsay Schrader dribbles up the foor in an 97-53 exhibition win over Indianapolis on Nov. see GAMEDAY/page 18 3. Saturday’s visit to UConn will be the frst women’s game to be featured on ESPN’s College Gameday. 

FOOTBALL 

Staff focuses on recruiting 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Editor 
With his staff completed and National Signing Day less than three weeks away, Irish coach Brian Kelly and his assistants will focus the majority of their attention on completing the recruiting class Charlie Weis’ regime began. 
Notre Dame currently holds 18 verbal commitments, according to recruiting ana­lyst Mike Frank’s irishsports­daily.com. That number includes five early enrollees who were set to begin class this week — cornerbacks Lo Wood and Spencer Boyd, safe­ty Chris Badger, wide receiver Tai-ler Jones and quarterback 
see RECRUITS/page 18 


SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles fall to MIAA rival Hope 
By TIM SIGLER 
Sports Writer 

The Saint Mary’s basketball team endured a devastating 91­72 loss to the No. 5 ranked Hope Wednesday. 
The Belles looked like they could contend with Hope, but began to lose steam at the end. Saint. Mary’s scored the first bas­ket of the game and even held a 14-7 lead early. However, little by little Hope came back with its onslaught of 3-pointers. 
At the start of the second half, Saint Mary’s came out sluggish and the Flying Dutch took advan­tage. The 50-38 lead that the Flying Dutch held at halftime increased and eventually over­whelmed the Belles. 
The Flying Dutch forced Saint Mary’s to play defense further out to guard the 3-pointers, which then opened up the inside. Saint 
see BELLES/page 17 
MEN’S SWIMMING 

Welsh leads team in quest for Big East title 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 

Twenty-five seasons into his role as head coach of the Irish, Tim Welsh is looking to continue the consistent suc­cess that has led Notre Dame to Big East championships in four of the last five seasons. 
Notre Dame currently holds a 4-2 record on the season after a narrow defeat against Northwestern on Jan. 9. Welsh has led the to several strong performances, includ­ing a fourth-place finish at the competitive Ohio State Invitational in December at the end of the fall season 
“I think that the experience of the weekend helped us take a major step towards being ready for what we have [in the spring],” Welsh said following the meet. 
Welsh said the quick com­petition was a good measur­ing stick for his squad. 
“The Big Ten always pro­vides really great competi­tion, it was clearly the fastest we’ve seen all season,” he said. 
The Irish also pulled out a big conference win in the fall over perennial power Pittsburgh, getting a 179­121 victory in November. 
Notre Dame will try to shake off the loss to 
see WELSH/page 18 




