the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


University, police, students react to arrests 
Two party busts over the weekend bring number of alcohol-related arrests to almost 60 since students returned to school 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editor 
The second major police raid last weekend resulted in a broken-down door, landed a police officer in the hospital and brought the total number of alcohol-related arrests since students returned to school to nearly 60. 
The incident, in which stu­dents reportedly refused to open the door and one person punched and kicked an officer while resisting arrest, sent 35 people to jail. 
The recent trend to arrest — rather than cite — students for underage drinking has caught the attention of both students and the University. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said the admin­istration is working to address the issue. 


“We clearly don’t condone underage drinking or gather­ings that infringe on the rights of others,” Brown said. “At the same time, the welfare of our students is our highest priori­ty. 
“We have concerns about the handling of some recent inci­dents that we are actively addressing through appropri­ate channels.” 
Indiana State Excise Police busted a party on Turtle Creek Drive Sunday morning and arrested 32 people for minor consuming alcohol, one person for public intoxication and one person for furnishing alcohol 

see ARRESTS/page 5 REN BRAUWEILER | The Observer 


SMC’s Johnson elected toASACCU 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Karen Johnson, vice presi­dent for student affairs at the College, received national recognition by being elected to a one-year term to the board of directors for the Association for Student Affairs at Catholic Colleges and Universities (ASACCU). 
The New York-based ASAC­CU holds annual conferences where leaders from schools across the country can share ideas, resources and advice with one another, Johnson said. 
“ASACCU is the resource for student affairs issues as they related to Catholic colleges and universities,” Johnson said. 
She said she started her work with the organization 10 years ago when she attended a weeklong workshop, “The Institute for Student Affairs at Catholic Colleges and Universities.” 
“When the funding for the workshops ended, the Association was formed,” Johnson said. “During the sec­ond year of the Association, I hosted the annual conference 
see JOHNSON/page 5 

BURGLARIES IN D6 LOT 




‘Quarter dog’prices rise at the Huddle 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 

Seventeen years ago Jim LaBella, general manager of the Huddle, came up with the con­cept of a limited-time, late-night special that would offer hot dogs to students for just 25 cents. 
For a while, everything went smoothly: The “limited-time” special became a staple of Huddle Mart fast food, the Huddle made some money off the sales and Notre Dame had a new thing to boast as tradition. 
“Then we started losing money,” LaBella said. “We’ve been losing money on every one that we’ve sold for the last five years, basically.” 
LaBella said last school year, the Huddle Mart served 29,798 hot dogs and lost eight cents on each one of them. That loss prompted the decision to raise the price to 33 cents per hot dog. 
“We waited as long as we could,” he said. “Now, at three for 99 cents we’re just breaking even. We’re not making a cent on these.” 
A departmental decision was made over the summer to raise the price, LaBella said. No other major price changes have been made to Huddle Mart products this year. 
“We meet departmentally and look at our costs, and then determine what to change,” he said. 
LaBella said he looks out to protect Notre Dame traditions just as much as students do. 
That is why the price of the hot dogs had not changed since 1993, he said. 
The Huddle never promoted the hot dogs as “quarter dogs,” LaBella said. They were simply meant to be a low-cost special offered late at night. 
“We never called them quarter dogs — that was a nickname that students gradually took on,” he said. 
LaBella does not expect the tradition to change or fade now that the hot dogs cost 33 cents. 
“We haven’t seen any change in the number of students pur­chasing the hot dogs this year,” he said. 
Regardless, students remain dissatisfied with the price raise. For sophomore Brian Phelan, the renaming of quarter dogs as “midnight dogs” just does not cut it. 
“They should be called third dogs, because before they were a quarter of a dollar — now they’re a third of a dollar,” he said. 
see DOGS/page 5 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER CLC holds first meeting page 4  Summer movie roundup page 8  Wonen’s soccer strength of schedule page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Tuesday, August 31, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO Y U DO TO BEAT THE HEAT?


THE OBSERVER 







P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Pat Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 

Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 djacobs1@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Laura McCrystal Eric Prister Kristen Durbin Megan Finneran John Cameron Scene 
Graphics Marissa Frobes Brandon Keelean Viewpoint Photo Ren Brauweiler Pat Coveney 
OFFBEAT 
Odometer mileage jump baffles vacationing couple 
NEW YORK – A couple who left their car parked in a long­term lot near Kennedy Airport during a trip to California were trying to figure out what their car has been doing with­out them. Mimi and Ulrich Gunthart said their car odometer reading jumped by 724 miles while they were out of town. Ulrich Gunthart said he was “flabbergasted” when he saw the number. Another surprise: when they returned to the car and started it up, a music CD came on at full vol­ume. 
David Menter, a regional manager for AviStar parking, said the company investigated and looked over inventory logs but “found nothing out of 

Travis Evert  Adam Newman  Jasmine Shells  Casey Easley  Liz Moore  
junior  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Fisher  Stanford  Cavanaugh  Breen-Phillips  Ryan  

“Crank up the  “I think about  “By hanging in  “I play in  “I grab an ice  
fan because  how bad the  the one air- Stonehenge.”  cold ‘root’ beer.”  
Fisher has no  weather is  conditioned  
A/C.”  going to be in  room in  
two months.”  Cavanaugh.”  




Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

the ordinary.” 
He said there have been no similar claims by other cus­tomers, and the company will be reviewing its procedures. 
The Guntharts said the inci­dent won’t stop them from parking at the lot again. 
John Lennon’s toilet sells for $14,740 at auction 
LONDON – A toilet that belonged to late Beatle John Lennon fetched 9,500 pounds ($14,740) at auction on Saturday, around 10 times its estimate, the sale organizers said. 
Lennon, who was murdered in New York in 1980, had the porcelain lavatory removed from Tittenhurst Park in Berkshire, southern England, where he lived from 1969 to 1971, and replaced with a new one. 

The builders who took away the white and blue lavatory were told to “put some flowers in it or something,” according to the auction catalog. 
Builder John Hancock stored it in his shed for 40 years until he died recently and the lavatory was sent for sale, British media reports said. 
The toilet was among Beatles memorabilia sold at auction as part of the Beatle week festival in Liverpool, the group’s native city in north­west England. The pre-auction estimate was 750 to 1,000 pounds. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The Snite Museum of Art will be showing an exhibition enti­tled, “Selections from the William McGraw Photography Collection.” The exhibit will be open today from 10 a.m. to 4 
p.m. 
in O’Shaughnessy Galleries II and III. 

An exhibit titled “Parallel Currents: Highlights of the Ricardo Pau-Llosa Collection of Latin American Art” will be on display today from 10 a.m. to 4 

p.m. 
in the O’Shaugnessy West Gallery of the Snite Museum of Art. 


The Department of Civil Engineering and Geological Sciences will host a seminar titled, “Risk Assessment of Windborne Debris and Hurricane Storm Surge: Two Applications of Poisson Theory,” which will take place today at 11 a.m. in 258 Fitzpatrick Hall. 
The Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering will present a seminar titled, “Characterizing Biomembrane Heterogeneity,” taking place today at 3:30 p.m. in 138 DeBartolo Hall. 
A SCUBA info session spon­sored by RecSports will be held tonight at 6 p.m. in 110 Rockne Memorial. 
The Student Activities Office is hosting Activities Night tonight from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. 
The Mendoza College of Business is sponsoring a lecture entitled, “The Ethics of Goldman Sachs: A Debate,” which will take place at 7 p.m . in the College’s Jordan Auditorium 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

Today Tonight Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 







EDITOR’S NOTE 

Due to postal regulations, The Observer staff box above will now regularly appear on Page 2. The daily Inside Column will appear on the first page of the Viewpoint section, which can be 
9080 8979 7070 
found today on page 6. 

7470 6964 5353 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Tuesday, August 31, 2010 The Observer  NEWS page 3 



New fences block campus shortcuts 
Installation of black posts serves to limit vehicle traffic on grass, protect landscaping 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
Newly-erected black posts and fencing that now stand between the sidewalks along several campus pathways have led many Notre Dame students to question their purpose. 
James Lyphout, vice presi­dent of business operations, said the reason for the installa­tion of the posts is aesthetic. 
“Individual decorative posts have been placed in a few select areas to help protect landscaped or lawn areas that have chronically been difficult to maintain due to excessive vehicular traffic,” he said. “The posts are intended to guide vehicles that use side­walks, from service trucks to golf carts, away from these areas.” 
Lyphout also said that the University held meetings over the summer with vendors and campus staff to request that they refrain from 


driving on appearance but that does not necessarily 
“They are intended to 
sidewalks for the new fences mean it was a correct decision aesthetic and guide vehicles.” while blending to place them around campus. safety purpos-them into the “I try to ride my bike on the es. landscape,” grass when it is busy so that I
James Lyphout 
“This effort Lyphout said. don’t hit people or have to 
vice president for
was intended S o p h o m o r e swerve,” she said. “We’ll find to increase business operations Anthony Cossell other shortcuts. Students better appearance around these new elements. 
“Sections of fence will soon be landscaped with new plant­

ings  that will  
soften  the  
of  

pedestrian safety as well as to minimize the reoccur­ring damage to the campus landscape,” he said. 
Despite the sudden appear­ance of the posts and fencing, students should soon expect a ridiculous-looking to be placed everywhere,” he said. 

believes that as  
they are now, the  
poles and fences  
are  an  eyesore  
on campus.  
“I  think  they  are  pretty  

Senior Anna Katter agreed. 



Westerink reflects on Katrina’s5thanniversary 
Special to The Observer 
The fifth anniversary of Hurricane Katrina (Aug. 29) has caused many Americans, and the news media in particular, to look back on that tragic event and reflect on its meaning. 
Joannes Westerink, a professor of civil engineering and geological sciences at the University of Notre Dame, has especially keen insights into Katrina and its signif­icance. As the hurricane unfolded, he was providing forecasts of its incoming storm surge, and in the storm’s aftermath, he played a leading role in the effort to under­stand the causes of the catastro­phe and the development of steps needed to prevent its reoccur­rence. 
In 1991, Westerink and his MIT classmate Rick Luettich, now a University of North Carolina pro­fessor, developed ADCIRC: the Advanced Circulation Model. ADCIRC has since become the authoritative computer model for storm surge used by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and the state of Louisiana to determine water lev­els due to hurricane surge and to design levee heights and align­ments. 
ADCIRC employs computer sci­ence, coastal oceanography, mathematics and engineering to forecast tides, riverine flows, wind and wave-driven currents, as well as incoming storm surge. Storm surge is the wall of water pushed onto land as a hurricane comes ashore. The model is increasingly more accurate as geographic detail, resolution and the underly­ing physics and computational engines are improved. Recent refinements have increased its accuracy to within half a meter 90 percent of the time in hindcasting high water for a hurricane. 
As he reflects back on Katrina and its aftermath, Westerink feels that the $15-billion dollar effort that created 350 miles of flood protection in the wake of the hur­ricane represents real progress. 
“This was an enormous and very successful effort to build a flood protection system that will does a good job of trying to do what was supposed to have been done in the wake of Hurricane Betty in 1965.” he said. “Congress finally stepped up to the plate and provided the massive construction funds to provide protection that should be effective for approxi­mately 40 years.” 
However, Westerink believes that there are major issues that still need to be addressed. In par­ticular, he feels that a layered sys­tem of protection that places greater safeguards on especially vulnerable areas of the Gulf Coast with high population levels needs to be developed. 
less out of place. A little effort would go a long way,” he said. 
Though he views the poles around campus as looking out of place, Cossell said one other simple change could drastical­ly improve their appearance. 
“If they made the poles look more like the fences to keep people off the grass, I could understand that, but without being connected they look awkward,” he said. 
O’Leary said he believes stu­dents will soon grow used to the new addition of the black poles. 
“I understand why they are here,” he said. “It’s just going to take a little time for stu­dents to get used to them.” 

Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 



ND police investigate burglaries 
Observer Staff Report 
At least 20 cars were broken into and robbed in the D6 parking lots Sunday night. 
The cars’ windows were broken and any valuable items, such as computers or Global Positioning Systems (GPS), that could be seen were stolen, said Dave Chapman, assistant director for Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP). 
“Basically anything of value that people can see by looking through the windows are the cars they broke into,” he said. “You can break a window and take some­thing out of a car in about five sec­onds.” 
Chapman said the cars were broken into between around 9 
p.m. Sunday night and 1 a.m. Monday morning. Although secu­rity vehicles patrol campus, they were not in the D6 north or south lots during the time of the break-ins. 
“We can’t be everywhere all the time, unfortunately,” he said. 
NDSP is processing the evidence and taking fingerprints of cars in hopes to find the suspect. They are also helping students tape up their car windows and vacuum up glass, as well as directing students to shops where their cars can be repaired. 
Chapman advised students not to leave valuables in the car, even if it is just a GPS base. 
“If the GPS has a base on it, don’t leave the base sitting on the dashboard because that tells the person there is probably a GPS sit­ting in the car,” he said. 
“It makes the campus less inviting,” she said. “They seem silly, like an arbitrary way to spend money.” 
Junior Melissa Guinan said she understands the purpose behind the posts and fencing, 
aren’t dumb.” 
Sophomore Charlie O’Leary said that a few simple addi­tions could improve the sight-lines around the poles drasti­cally. 
“Even if they put some plants or flowers around the poles, that would help them seem 


page 4 The Observer  NEWS Tuesday, August 31, 2010 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 



Council finalizes 2010-2011 agenda 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Campus Life Council (CLC) cemented its agenda for the beginning of the 2010-11 aca­demic year Monday, as its members focused on the rela­tionship between Notre Dame students and the local com­munity in light of recent events with law enforcement off-campus. 
CLC members said they plan to delve into issues that have arisen after the recent escala­tion of tensions between Notre Dame students and local law enforcement. 
“We are about to launch our beND campaign as a cohesive logue between students and local law enforcement,” Lyons Hall rector Denise McOsker said. 
Council members debated the value of holding conversa­tions immediately, or after tensions following recent arrests relax in the communi­ty. 
“We better be clear about what we are going to say when we ask South Bend police to come in and speak with us,” Keough Hall rector Fr. Pete McCormick said. “There is a lot of underage drinking, and they are trying to enforce the law.” 
CLC members said they need to address the beND 
campaign 
from different 

eff o rt  a t  com - “We need to  angles, includ­ 
m uni t y re la -tions,” student body president Catherine Soler  challenge [students] to move beyond the crutch  ing the factors that motivate students to go off campus on  
said. “We want  that is alcohol.”  weekends and  
to increase good  educa t ion  on  
neighbor rela-ti o ns and to gain respect in  Fr. Tom Gaughan Stanford Hall rector  la w enf o rc e -ment policies. “ One l eg o f  

the community.” 
Ensuring stu­dents are treated as mature individuals without promoting underage drinking is critical, she said. 
“We need to explore the possibility of some sort of dia­this has to be 
community relationships,” McCormick said. “The other part has to be internal.” 
A renewed emphasis on programming on campus might alleviate some of the pressure students experience to go off campus on week­ends, McCormick said. 
On-campus events often garner a reputation as boring and stuffy, so attracting attendance for these pro­grams can be a challenge, Student Union Board manag­er Julia Sutton said. 
“Notre Dame students are bright and creative,” Stanford Hall rector Fr. Tom Gaughan said. “We need to challenge them to move beyond the crutch that is alcohol.” 
Student perceptions of law enforcement may not line up with reality so education is an important part of this pro­gram, faculty senate repre­sentative Col. Jon Crist said. 

CLC will focus on education for both on and off-campus students as well as on-cam­pus programming and in-dorm relationships, Soler said. 
“We understand that there are distinctions between these different issues,” she said. “We can really get a lot done here.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 




Mosque site fire worries Tennessee Muslims 
Associated Press 
MURFREESBORO, Tenn. — A suspicious fire that damaged construction equipment at the site of a future mosque in Tennessee has some local Muslims worried that their project has been dragged into the national debate surround­ing Manhattan’s ground zero. 
Authorities told leaders of the Islamic Center of Murfreesboro that four pieces of heavy construction equip­ment on the site were doused with an accelerant and one set ablaze early Saturday morning. The site is now being patrolled at all hours by the sheriff’s department. 
Federal investigators have not ruled it arson, saying only that the fire was being probed and asked the public to call in tips. Eric Kehn, spokesman for the Nashville office of the U.S. Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, said arson is suspected. 
The site has already seen vandalism, said Joel Siskovic, a spokesman for the FBI in the Memphis office. A sign at the site was spray-painted with the words “Not Welcome” and then torn in half. The FBI is investi­gating the fire in case it is a civil rights violation. 
“We want to make sure there are not people acting with the intent to prevent people from exercising their First Amendment rights,” Siskovic said. 
Essam Fathy, chairman of the planning committee for the mosque, said he has lived in the city about 25 miles south­east of Nashville for almost 30 years and has never run into problems with his faith until now. He’s concerned that out­siders could be involved. 
“I don’t think this is coming out of Murfreesboro,” he said. “There were no issues at any time, even after 9/11, there were no issues. It just seems like there’s a movement in the United States against Islam.” 
The debate in New York over a proposed Islamic community center and mosque two blocks away from ground zero has pitted advocates for religious freedom, including New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg and President Barack Obama, against opponents who think it is insensitive to the victims of the terror attacks. 
Tennessee Gov. Phil Bredesen, a Democrat, weighed in on the project for the first time on Monday. 
“I guess I would ask every­body to remember that this is a country whose deepest origins are in religious freedom — it was founded by people who escaped to it to practice their religions — and to ask people to please have great respect for anyone’s religious preferences and their rights to practice those in the United States. I think it goes right to the heart of what this country is about.” 
Supporters of the Tennessee mosque and some leaders in other faiths hope the fire could be a wake-up call to support religious freedom. 


page 5 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, August 31, 2010 
door even though they knew we had a search warrant,” he said. “Then when we did gain access into the residence, peo­ple were hiding in closets and everywhere else that they could find.” 
A police officer was injured when one person resisted arrest. He spent most of Sunday at South Bend Memorial Hospital. 
“He was punched, he was kicked and he did some dam­age to his knee,” Cleveland said. 
Cleveland encouraged stu­dents to cooperate if they encounter law enforcement officials. While underage drinking is an arrest-able offense, officers are less likely to incarcerate with coopera­tion, he said. 
“It’s a higher likelihood that you’ll be incarcerated if you try to hide and attempt to destroy evidence and fail to cooperate,” Cleveland said. “It is not our policy to incarcerate everybody that we encounter that is consuming alcohol underage.” 
The recent influx in arrests for underage drinking has many students on edge. 


Arrests 
continued from page 1 
to minors. 
One person was also arrest­ed for resisting law enforce­ment, battery to a police offi­cer, disorderly conduct and minor consuming alcohol. 
Tim Cleveland, excise police commander for the district, said many of those arrested were 
party on Turtle Creek Drive, Cleveland said. “They stumbled across the one at Turtle Creek,” he said. 
Meanwhile, South Bend police received a call for tres­passing at the same party. 
“There were individuals who were climbing the fence to gain access to the pool, which was closed,” Cleveland said. 
South Bend and excise police 
officers were denied access to the apartment and waited for two hours to obtain a search 

Notre Dame stu­dents, but he could not con­ “It’s a higher likelihood that you’ll  warrant. Once the warrant was obtained,  
firm  that  all  be incarcerated if you  the  residents  
were students. The excise police were in the area of the  try to hide and attempt to destroy evidence and fail to  continued to deny officers entry and South Bend police  
party South  because Bend  cooperate.”  broke down the door.  
police asked them to check a  Tim Cleveland  Cleveland said officers decided  
location  of  Excise Police commander  to arrest rather  
another party.  than issue cita- 
When  officers  tions for under- 
arrived,  the  age  drinking  
party they had  because of the  

been called for was not occur-resistance they encountered. ring, but they discovered the “They still didn’t open the 

Johnson 
continued from page 1 
at my previous institution, Saint Mary’s University in San Antonio, Texas.” 
She said she has remained an active member and has continued to volunteer for jobs 
since the confer­ence was held in Texas. 
According to Johnson, she was nominated by a slate of offi­cers. 
She said she and her fellow members on the board have goals “to improve [ASACCU’s] web presence, improve commu­nication between mem­bers and serve as a great resource.” 
board will help improve her work at the College. 
“Keeping current with what is happening in Catholic higher education always improves the way I do my job,” Johnson said. “Being able to share information and resources reminds me that we do have great services and supports here, but I can always learn 

“Keeping current with what is happening in Catholic higher education always improves the way I do my job.” 
Karen Johnson vice president for student affairs 
Johnson said her position should not affect her role at Saint Mary’s, but “it is always an honor to represent [the] institution on a national board.” 
Johnson said the knowledge she brings back from the and bring new programs to Saint Mary’s.” 
Johnson started at the College in 2006. As vice president for student affairs, she said she over­sees the direc­tors of athlet­ics, multicul­tural services and student programs, stu­dent involve­ment, security, residence life and communi­
ty standards and women’s health. She also said student affairs is there to listen to stu­dent concerns and “ensure that the Saint Mary’s woman has a well-rounded life experi­ence at the College and is pre­pared to meet the world she 


ND ranks 13th for grad. rateofHispanicstudents 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame is ranked 13th among research universities and in the top 35 overall for gradu­ating Hispanic students, according to “Big Gaps, Small Gaps: Some Colleges and Universities Outpace Others in Graduating Hispanic Students,” recently released by the Education Trust. 
Notre Dame was identified as having only a 2 percent gap in graduation rates between white and Hispanic students and the third-high­est six-year graduation rate 
(94.3 percent) for Hispanic 
students, bettered only by 
D u k e  a n d  S t a n f o r d  
Universities.  
“ T h i s  i s  a n  i m p o r t a n t  

recognition of the increasing emphasis that the University of Notre Dame has placed on the importance of Latinos to the future of our country,” said Allert Brown-Gort, asso­ciate director of Notre Dame’s Institute for Latino Studies. “Notre Dame is an institution at which the Latino presence has been steadily rising over the past decade, and one in which we expect to see an inexorable closing of the gap in gradua­tion rates. 
enters into after commence­ment.” 
Between her work with schools and ASACCU, she has several years of experience. 
In her student affairs career that has spanned more than 30 years, Johnson said, “the more things change, the more they stay the same.” 
She said she enjoys her work at the College. 
“I really love working at Saint Mary’s and have learned so much from the confident women who are students here,” Johnson said. 


Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 

Junior Sarah Beringer said “a ton of people are talking about it.” 
“A lot of people are more scared,” she said. “And some are really pissed off.” 
Junior Nick Grasberger said he has noticed a large increase in incidents. 
“This year, so many more people have been arrested as opposed to just written up,” he said. “This year is 
“We’ve had a couple parties in St. Ed’s as opposed to just going straight off campus,” he said. “Then when I have gone off campus, I haven’t stayed anywhere too long.” 
Grasberger said the arrests are especially notable because there may be other crimes occurring in the area that 
could have more of an impact. 
“The South Bend police are not focusing on 

unprecedented to the point where you don’t  “This year is unprecedented to the  the things that are important for law enforce- 
really feel safe anywhere.” The large  point where you don’t feel safe anywhere.”  ment. When you’re out bust­ing parties to  
number  of  get  money  at  
arrests has driven students to change their  Nick Grasberger junior  the expense of p r e v e n t i n g actual crime in  
habits when it  a  town  where  
comes to week- crime is  a  real  
end activities.  issue,  then  
For Beringer, it  that’s  a  prob- 
means  staying  lem,” he said.  

sober when venturing off cam-“The priorities of legal author-pus. For Grasberger, who lives ities have to be elsewhere.” in St. Edward’s Hall, it some­times means not going off Contact Sarah Mervosh at campus at all. smervosh@nd.edu 


Dogs 
continued from page 1 

Freshman Beau Dolan agrees. 
“It doesn’t really make sense,” he said. “It’s probably two-cent meat and a [half-cent] worth of bread.” 
Junior Connor Paladino, said that for the eight-cent raise in price, the hot dogs should at least “taste better.” 
LaBella said the Huddle works to provide value to the students wherever it can, but could not afford to lose more money on the hot dogs. 
“Three hot dogs for 99 cents is still ridiculously low-priced,” LaBella said with a laugh. “It’s still a heck of deal.” 

Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 



The Observer 




Viewpoint 
page 6 Tuesday, August 31, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Silly Bandz 
Over the course of our short yet fruit­ful lives we have experienced many fads. From Tamagotchis to Beanie Babies to Furbies to pogs to Pokemon, these iconic toys were staples of so many elementary schools across the country. The hype was huge and the craze seemed never-ending. 
I still have a trunk of Beanie Babies somewhere that contains an almost complete set of the Caitlin Ferraro mini Beanie Babies McDonald’s pack-

Assistant 
aged with their 

Scene Editor
Happy Meals. And a rule against trad­ing Pokemon cards had to be enforced during recess at my school. Oh the glory days, when clean­ing up your virtual pet’s poop was everything. Some might have expected us to be beyond all that wild fervor for a single item now that we are college students, but it seems that isn’t so. We have a new fad that seems to be so powerful it has followed us into our col­lege years — Silly Bandz. 
I first heard about Silly Bandz when my roommate discovered them as she was teaching a second grade class last year. I immediately thought they were awesome. Little kids could have so much fun collecting and trading them just as we did back in the day with pogs. I did not think they would become a phenomenon even among 21-year-olds. 
If you do not know any young chil­dren, or if you simply never take note of your surroundings you might be ask­ing, what exactly is a Silly Band? Simply put, they are silicone rubber bands that take shape in a design of some sort such as an animal, object, letter or symbol. They can be worn on your wrist or ankle as an almost nor­mal rubber band, only to resume their previous shape when taken off. Pretty cool. 
I also think Silly Bandz are a great fashion accessory for kids. If I was a lit­tle kid I would probably be just as taken with these colorful rubber bands as I was with Beanie Babies. But I struggle to find the appeal for young adults our age. Yes, they are cheap, but they are also easy to lose and break. 
As I see a classmate, friend or stranger wearing a Silly Band around campus, I wonder where they got it. Did they steal it from some poor, inno­cent child? Did they bully their little brother into giving up his favorite dinosaur? Did they beg their mom to buy a package in the aisle at Target? Or did they actually buy them for them­selves? That’s $5 that could have been spent on your cover at Fever. 
So I ask you, students of Notre Dame who are also wearers of Silly Bandz, where you got your Bandz and why you like them? I also implore you all to visit sillybandz.com to discover the absolute wonder that is the official music video of the company — “My Silly Bandz” by the aspiring rapper Young Siege. As Mr. Siege wonders why people are “hatin’ on [his] bandz” I will say that I am not trying to do that, I am merely trying to understand why our age group finds them attractive. 
Are they only cool if you get the origi­nal brand and not an imitation? Are these bandz truly as awesome as their popularity seems to say they are? Or are they juvenile and — well, to put it simply — just silly? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrar1@nd.edu 
To prove the existence of a God is fairly trivial: even Aristotle had his Prime Mover — a narcissistic genius unaware of his cosmos. The real challenge is proving the existence of the right sort of God — one who builds us from our metaphysi­cal parts and leads 
Dan Sportiello 
us down the long path toward 
Bound 
redemption. It is 
Variables 
only in meeting this challenge that Saint Thomas Aquinas achieved the insight that secured his place in history. 
God, his Third Way holds, must be a nec­essary being — because, if there were no necessary being, the existence of any contin­gent being would be inexplicable: any every­day thing has both the stuff from which it is made — its matter — and the structure of that stuff — its form. But neither of these things explains the existence of the thing in the first place: neither the fact that Socrates is made of flesh and bones, nor the fact that these flesh and bones are arranged in a cer­tain way, explains the fact that there is a Socrates rather than no Socrates — or, for that matter, that there is a world rather than no world. For where Socrates — or, for that matter, the whole world—now stands, there could just as well have been nothing at all. 
Each thing, in other words, has three metaphysical parts: its matter, its form, and its existence. But if these three are really dis­tinct, then it is not clear why the cosmos or anything in it exists at all. The cosmos, it is clear, is contingent. And this contingency can only be explained by something that is nec­essary — that is, something whose form does not differ from its existence, something whose way of being just is to be, nothing more and nothing less. This is God — that is, Existence Itself. 
“It is said in the person of God,” Thomas notes, “‘I am Who am.’” It is this existential insight that reveals to us his nature. For once we accept the soundness of the Third Way, it turns out that God not only exists but must exist — and the only thing that must exist is that whose form is identical to its existence. And this means that God, unlike everything else, must be absolutely simple — which means that he cannot be broken apart, physically or metaphysically, and so is eternal. And, because he is totally simple, he has no features to differentiate him from another God — and, thus, is necessarily unique. And, because he is the source of the contingent cosmos, that cosmos must be a reflection of him — and so he must contain within himself its form, albeit not in matter; but to contain a form within oneself but not in matter is to be a mind, and so God is a mind — the Mind, the Architect of the cos­mos. And so on. 
Thus is revealed the real genius of Thomas: he is a master synthesizer, bringing together the whole history of ancient and medieval philosophy and showing that mak­ing all of it work together actually allows tremendous insight into theology — quite lit­erally, the science of God. In this, he is akin to Kant, another master synthesizer: in a way, Thomas is employing a critical method, showing what is necessary for the cosmos to exist, to support human beings, and to be intelligible in the first place. He is, in other words, showing how “philosophy” as he understood it—what we would call natural science — presupposes rational theology, even if said theology stands at the very limit of human reason. 
Despite appearances, such a project is not 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Assumptions are the termites ofrelationships.” 
Henry Winkler 
U.S. actor 


Synthesis 
so foreign to us moderns. Why is it that there is a world for natural science to study? Why is it that it is transparent, rather than opaque, to human reason — that is, why does it obey logical laws like those of identity, noncontradiction, and the excluded middle? And why is the natural world structured such that it is able to support intelligent life? Why is it, in sum, that the human mind is, almost miraculously, able to mirror the structure of the cosmos? This is a question that goes back at least to Pythagoras, and Thomas — prefiguring Kant — tries to show that doing natural science presupposes answers to these questions: the world, obvi­ously contingent, must be the reflection of something necessary; it must be intelligible because that necessary being of which it is a reflection is a mind — and we must echo him in this, since we too can understand this cosmos; and it must be structured in the harmonious way it is on purpose. 
Yet Saint Thomas Aquinas, with his exis­tential insight, attempted an even greater synthesis. 
It was only in the century before Thomas that Aristotle’s writings were translated from Arabic into Latin, taking the philosophical world by storm — but this was a problem, because that philosophical world had been founded in order to articulate a fundamen­tally Judeo-Christian worldview: the cosmos is a masterpiece built by an infinitely power­ful Will — one who loves us, and all of his creatures, as individuals, guiding us through the long millennia of history. But Aristotle presents a profoundly compelling — and profoundly Greek — alternative: our world is a system, an eternal harmonious structure built up not out of individuals but rather out of universals in intricate taxonomical combi­nation — and is, thus, the product of Reason and the correct object of human reason. 
The Judeo-Christian worldview is histori­cal and focuses upon will, emphasizing the particularity and changeability of the cosmos 
— and, therefore, its tragic transcendence of our understanding. The Greek worldview, on the other hand, is ahistorical and focuses upon reason, emphasizing the orderliness and stability of the cosmos — and, therefore, its comforting comprehensibility. 
Virtually all of Thomas’s predecessors con­cluded that these two worldviews were radi­cally incompatible: theologians decried the study of Aristotle, with his pagan misunder­standing of the nature of the world and God and human beings; philosophers insisted that Aristotle must be right — but also that, admittedly, the power of God extended even to the impossible, and that sometimes even the right is wrong. 
Whether said philosophers were sincere or merely afraid of losing tenure is an open question. But Thomas, almost alone, dis­agreed with both sides: though they might appear to be at odds, the two worldviews actually only make sense in light of one another — and, in any case, they are cer­tainly compatible. Thomas, armed with his existential insight, worked mightily to show that this is the case — to reconcile Reason and Will, Eternity and History. To show that God can be Thought and Love at one and the same time. 
Despite appearances, such a project is not so foreign to us moderns. We feel the need of it today in the life-and death-struggle of sci­ence with the humanities: the former, reach­ing for convergence upon the objective reali­ty behind all appearances, contends with the latter, which reminds us that we are bound within the perspectives of language and cul-ture — of race, gender, and class — that we have inherited from history; the former seeks the truth of things transcendent of human bias, but the latter denies that there can even be such a thing as truth without such bias. And this struggle echoes now — much as it did in the time of Thomas — up and down the academy, causing a crisis of confidence both within and outside the aca­demic world. 


It is tempting to think, therefore, that the Thomist synthesis can show us the way for­ward — can help us to repair this rift in our understanding of our world and ourselves. But it is not so clear, upon reflection, that it can. 
Thomas saw, or thought he saw, the way out of a crisis that put the very legitimacy of scholarship at risk: his existential insight allowed him to synthesize two worldviews that seemed radically at odds. But it was that same existential insight that paved the way for Ockham and Luther and Calvin to tear his synthesis apart: in admitting that the existence and order of the cosmos are con­tingent — are, indeed, the product of divine will — he threw into question the degree to which said cosmos is transparent to human reason — something that Aristotle and the Greeks had never thought to doubt. After all, if things are the way they are by divine fiat 
— 
and we cannot expect to discern the hid­den purposes of God — then we cannot rely upon human reason to stumble upon the truth. If one’s will does not match that of God, one’s reason must be correspondingly darkened; to know anything at all about would take a miracle — would take, that is, direct revelation by God. 

Thomas held fast to the Greek idea that human reason could know the purposive­ness in the world — could know, that is, tele­ology. But, if the existentialist insight is cor­rect — if things could easily have been very different than they are — then our under­standing of teleology is at best a reasonable guess about the logic of the divine mind. The Scientific Revolution and the Protestant Reformation were only possible because each gave up the attempt to understand the world according to purposiveness: human reason can see only matter in motion, not forms and the ends toward which they move 

— 
and thus whatever access we have to divine purpose in the world is through scrip­ture alone. 


In the search for an understanding of the world without teleology were born the sci­ences; in the search for an understanding of teleology through scripture alone were born the humanities. More and more did they struggle with one another until, today, they engage in an open warfare that makes the very name of “university” farcical. 
And yet, and yet: each has achieved more than anyone would have imagined possible in the time of Thomas; to give up either would now be impossible. We are, thus, caged by modernity: we cannot see what synthesis, if any, the future holds, but we also cannot see a way to relinquish the need for one. We know only that we wait for another — doubtless very different — Saint Thomas. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his third year in the philosophy Ph.D. program. Listen this fall for his radio show, Bound Variables, on WVFI. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“My favorite thing is to go whereI've never been.” 
Diane Arbus 
U.S. photographer 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Tuesday, August 31, 2010 page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Summer of Love 
My Notre Dame family, 

I am writing to you about a little adven­ture I like to call the Summer of Love. 
Last fall I applied for, and somehow got, a placement for the Center for Social Concerns International Summer Service Project in Kolkata, India. The site places two Notre Dame students in Kolkata to work with the Missionaries of Charity, the order of nuns Mother Teresa founded. I went off thinking I would discover a little more about love: how to give and to receive it. It ended up being a complete under­statement. 
Arriving in Kolkata, I was sure I would end up volunteering at an orphanage, although I promised myself I would start with working at Nrimal Hriday, better known as Kalighat, a home for the destitute and dying of Kolkata. Mother Teresa found­ed the home to care for people in their last hours, to give them dignity and love; to make them feel like humans before they died. I was scared beyond belief to work there. How could I, a lowly student, do any­thing for these people who had suffered so much? 
No surprise: I was incredibly wrong. I found I loved Kalighat. As I gave the patients medicine, fed, clothed, and washed them, they gave me boundless amounts of love. They held my hand, just as much as I held theirs. They massaged my back when I looked stressed. Then fanned me when I was drenched in sweat. They offered me their stories, their smiles, their hugs. I undeniably received invaluable lessons: I learned how to love. 
Mother Teresa once said, “We have been created for greater things: to love and to be loved.” Her simple words present a chal­lenge and a blessing: to truly live our humanity to the fullest we have to love, but we also receive it. So this Fall of Love I challenge you all to love each other. Hold open the door for someone else. Smile at that person you barely know but pass all the time. As I found this summer, some­times it is the smallest actions that can offer the most love. Go out into the commu­nity. Do a week-long service project over fall break. Apply for an ISSLP. Spread the love. 
Enjoy the Fall of Love! I can’t wait to see how love has transformed campus next spring! 
Love until it hurts, 
Anne Huntington 
junior 
abroad 
Aug. 29 



New beginning for a new year 
Arriving at the Opening Mass for the year, everybody immersed in his or her thoughts about the new semester, we were struck by the life of Blessed André Besset who will be canonized this coming October. As Fr. Jenkins brought to our attention, Blessed André was a very simple man who gave his entire life to Christ — a poor porter who simply opened the doors of his home, his heart and his life to welcome people and to help them draw closer to the presence of Christ. But what more does this ask of us? The crucial implication of Blessed André’s life is that everyone’s destiny is to become a saint, which means nothing other than the complete fulfillment of our humanity. And this shakes the bedrock of our mentality. This is because the experience of the saints reveals to us that the answer to the ultimate human question lies not in what we do (we may simply open and close doors), but in the discovery of a reality that is more con­crete than the visible one and that sustains it. 
This reality is the answer to all the desires that a new beginning always carries with itself — happiness, fulfillment, success, the joy of new discoveries, etc. All the saints testify that with Christ we can say “You” to this mys­terious reality. And this, in fact, is the reason why Notre Dame can be a family. Not simply because it is a tradition, but because the meaning of our life has become something — a someone — to whom we can say “You.” How can we stay together even in the face of human limitations, illness, and death? Not simply because this is ND, but because we have met the meaning of everything. Because of Christ, who, through the faces of our friends in the Church, says to us: your life, everything (everything!) has a positive mean­ing. 
We want to write this brief note in order to start our year recognizing this gift, at the heart of which is a new provocation: “For me, to live is Christ.” Now we cannot open our books anymore without wishing that every line carries the possibility of meeting this Presence of Christ who is the real answer to what our hearts desire. We are friends who want to live everything, especially our univer­sity life, helping each other to recognize that “to live is Christ.” Everyone who has this desire is our friend. 
Filippo Gianferrari 
graduate student off campus 

Brandon Cook 
graduate student off campus 
Jack Greaney 
sophomore St. Edward’s Hall 
Nancy Paul 
junior off campus Aug. 29 



Underage drinking: worse than armed robbery? 
Friday night South Bend police arrested 23 students, as we all know very well. What many of us who just read The Observer for their daily news may not know is what else has been going on in the South Bend community. Let me paint you a picture. 
Last Wednesday, while we were attending, or not attending as it may be, our second day of classes, a hotel clerk and a local Subway were both robbed at gunpoint. Late Thursday night, while many of us were at Fever, the Domino’s on Edison road, the Domino’s that is just blocks from where I live and is literally 100 yards from the outskirts of campus, was robbed at gunpoint. On Friday night, two different people were robbed at gunpoint walk­ing around in South Bend. A man was arrested on charges of felony robbery, trespassing and resisting arrest, which also occurred on Friday night. On Saturday afternoon a Chinese restaurant was also, you guessed it, robbed at gunpoint and two women were shot at while walking around in South Bend. 
Now, somehow, the South Bend police department decided that going to a college house party and arresting 23 Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students for underage drinking on Friday night was a good use of their time. This makes sense because, as we all know, underage drinking is just as dangerous as armed robbery or felony trespassing. Perhaps the South Bend police should find a better use for their time. The Notre Dame community, faculty and staff who live in the South Bend area should be outraged by this blatant misuse of taxpayer dollars and obvious disregard for pub­lic safety. 
If you are looking for something to do on Saturday before the Purdue game, remember this. The South Bend police will be out and about, busting up off-campus tailgates and ticketing underage drinkers. But those out robbing local business and shooting mem­bers of the South Bend community will have no problems, seeing as the majority of the police force will be localized to combat to the largest threat to the community — underage drinkers. 
Joe Deters 
senior off campus Aug. 30 


Being frank about franks 
It’s come to my attention the price of “midnight dogs” went up to a third of a dollar from a quarter of a dollar. I’m sure the extra eight cents extracted from students’ pockets will really turn things around. While it’s not clear why business is languishing, whether due to a great hot dog shortage or packer strike, it is clear LaFortune needs more money. But why stop there? As a firm believer in fractions, I would like to point out the new cost of “midnight dogs” is actually 33 1/3 cents. Splitting pennies into thirds would yield an extra cent for every three individual purchases. Think about that 20 years from now! True, some startup costs may be required; maybe the very best in copper cutting technology and a license from the federal govern­ment. But in time — say, the next 20 years — it will all pay for itself! After all, a penny shaved is a penny earned. 
John McKissick 
sophomore Dillon Hall Aug. 30 


This right here? This is big enough for me to write a story in. I could tell you such a tale...but I won’t. You haven’t earned it yet.  Want to know how you can go about doing that? 

Write in a letter. 
The Observer 



Scene

page 8 Tuesday, August 31, 2010 

Scene Staff Report 
‘Get Him to the Greek’ 

The plot of this movie was predictable and writ­ten on the movie poster itself. It seemed to bank on the success and popularity of “Superbad” and “Forgetting Sarah Marshall.” While entertaining at times, it tried to develop a dynamic and dark char­acter in Aldous Snow, the British rocker, which did not fit the comic theme of the movie. P. Diddy was the star of the movie, proving his newfound dedication to acting. Any scene he graced with his presence was hilari­ous and novel. Unfortunately, Jonah Hill and Russell Brand didn’t come close to the comedic value of the rap mogul, making this movie over-hyped and under­whelming. 

‘MacGruber’ 

MacGruber was surprisingly entertaining and may be the funniest movie you haven’t seen. Despite the movie’s affiliation with the utterly awful sketch on “Saturday Night Live,” the movie delivered a refreshingly funny parody of spy movies and the MacGyver series. Admittedly, it was a low-brow comedy movie, but Will Forte and Kristen Wiig provided much better performances than they do on Saturday nights. The writing was at times overly vulgar and crude, but without the occasional ripped-out throat the movie would lack the comedic value differentiating it from the awful original SNL skit. 
‘Despicable Me’ 

“Despicable Me” is the epitome of studio abuse of 3-D movies. Not only was this a children’s cartoon, but unlike “Toy Story 3” there were absolutely no scenes where the 3-D could be noticed. Other than that, the movie was cute and the little girls were absolutely adorable. Steve Carrell showed his acting flexibility with an accent that held throughout the movie, causing his first success releasing a family film (contrary to what happened with “Dan in Real Life” and “Evan Almighty”). Overall it was an average children’s comedy that was neither terri­
ble nor great. 


‘The A-Team’ 
This action-packed film whol­
ly succeeds as a remake of the 1980’s television hit with a 
modern twist, as this time around the main players are Iraq War vet­erans. The A-Team is an 
oddball group of renegades that must clear their name after they are set up for a crime they did not commit. The film is three parts action and one part comedy, the perfect com­bination for an explosive, fun summer blockbuster. 
‘Knight and Day’ 

This action-comedy is formulaic and cheesy but it is also incredibly fun due to delightful perform­ances by Tom Cruise and Cameron Diaz. The film’s premise of a defective spy on the run with a stranger he just met works because of Cruise and Diaz’s undeniable chemistry. Cruise plays the slightly deranged Roy Miller and leaves audiences grinning. 
‘The Twilight Saga: Eclipse’ 
If you can get past Kristen Stewart’s awful wig and bad acting, it is easy to see that “Eclipse” is the best film of the Twilight Saga thus far. Bella is once again in danger while simultaneously being torn between her vampire boyfriend Edward and werewolf best friend Jacob. But with an ever-increasing budget and more experience by the young actors, “Eclipse” is better than its predeces­sors. Oh, and Taylor Lautner is shirtless, again. 
‘Eat Pray Love’ 
A soul-searching adaptation of Elizabeth Gilbert’s best-selling memoir, this film is about one woman’s search for fulfillment. Portrayed by Julia Roberts, Gilbert trots all around the globe to find her true purpose and a sense of balance in her life. 
To find that balance between a longing for inde­
pendence and a deep 
desire for love, Gilbert decides to travel to three different loca­
tions, each with a specific purpose; to Italy to eat and enjoy life, to India to find her spirituality and to Indonesia to look for balance between the two. 

‘Toy Story 3’ 
The third installment in the beloved computer-animated children’s series, “Toy Story 3” blends comedy, adventure, insight and raw emotion. Andy, now 17-years-old, is expected to store away his old toys that he has outgrown before going off to col­lege. 
Hilarity and hi-jinks ensue when Woody, Buzz and the other toys are mistakenly donated to Sunnyside Daycare. The most commercially suc­cessful Pixar film yet, the movie is a must-see, especially for loyal viewers who have enjoyed the “Toy Story” series from the beginning. 
‘Inception’ 
Director Christopher Nolan (“Memento”, “The Dark Knight”) returns with his uncanny ability to create for both the masses and crit­ics alike. Leonardo DiCaprio, in his second psychological thriller of 2010 (“Shutter Island”), gives himself unto Nolan’s unique, but 
somewhat choppy vision, as a dream extractor assigned one last big job, which without 
coincidence is his last shot at 
redemption. The problem here, like in some of Nolan’s other films, is that his character is 
meant to be emotive and full of angst, but that feeling never quite runs through DiCaprio’s veins in his great, yet blemished performance. Instead “Inception” as a whole, operates in impressive fashion that leaves a little more to be desired. 
‘Exit Through the Gift Shop’ 
Thierry Guetta, an eccentric French shopkeeper sets out to meet and film the greatest and most 


‘Scott Pilgrim vs. The World’ 
“Scott Pilgrim vs. The World” can be summed up in three phrases: “comic book,” “speed addict” and “balls.” Scott Pilgrim is a visual rollercoaster that is weak on plot, but honestly, who cares? From start to end, the movie is filled with unusual and enter­taining characters, hyper-realistic mar­tial arts battles, great music and more visual affects than your brain can handle. Edgar Wright has done what a few years ago would have been a pipe dream: bringing the look and feel of a comic book to the big screen. Awesome upon awesomeness. 

P.S. For all you Michael Cera haters out there, in this movie he gets punched in the face. A lot. 
‘Salt’ 

Evelyn Salt’s (Angelina Jolie) seemingly stable life as a CIA agent gets turned upside down when she is suspected of an affiliation with a Russian spy group planning to assassinate the president. Though it remains uncertain throughout most of the film where her allegiance lies, the action is worth watching. Think of Jolie as a female version of the character Liam Neeson played in “Taken.” 
‘Sex and the City 2’ 
Carrie and the girls were back this summer with another flashy, dazzling big-budget ode to sex, the city, couture clothing and, this time around, women’s rights, the Middle East, marriage, par­enthood and menopause. Unfortunately for the fab foursome, the movie was so big and overdone, and way too long, that it sapped the heart out of what once made “Sex and the City” so great. Do yourself a favor and skip this movie and check out the orig­inal HBO series instead. 
‘Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time’ 
Jake Gyllenhaal ventured out to the Middle Eastern desert this summer with the video game adaptation of "Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time." In the end, it really is just another mind­less action flick, but Gyllenhaal is totally charming as Dastan, a street-rat-turned-Prince wrongfully accused of killing his father. All "Aladdin" allu­sions aside (and there are plenty), "Prince of Persia" is a fun movie full of parkour stunts, scary snakes and star-crossed love. Alfred Molina's great supporting role is perhaps the highlight of the movie. Just try not to think about the film's political correctness. 
‘Robin Hood’ 

Russell Crowe and Ridley Scott (the duo behind "Gladiator") teamed up once again this summer for a new adaptation of the legend of Robin Hood. But gone are the green tights and general merry­making. Rather Robin Hood, played by Crowe, and his band of merry men are more concerned with 
saving a small village from the 
anonymous graffiti artist in the world— 
evil and greedy wrath of King Banksy. Banksy’s work has earned him a John. History buffs will enjoy global reputation, as his work can be seen on the reference to the signing of walls from post-hurricane New Orleans to the the Magna Carta at the end. separation barrier on the Palestinian West Though not a great movie over-Bank. Suddenly however, Banksy turns the all, Scott's "Robin Hood" camera back on Guetta. What ensues is a brings a grittier tone to the thrilling hall-of-mirrors documentary about story than is typically found in the nature of art, what is art, and who the hell the movies. And Russell Crowe are we, or anyone for that matter, to say what is still, even at 46, a bona fide can pass as art. As Banksy best put it, “It’s action star completely capa­basically the story of how one man set out to ble of carrying an entire film the un-filmable. And failed.” movie on his shoulders. 
The Observer 



Scene

Tuesday, August 31, 2010 page 9 

There are two types of music listen­ers: hunters and gatherers. Hunters are always on the prowl, reading music blogs and magazines, looking up the soundtracks of movies and TV shows, and Googling lyrics they hear on obscure radio sta­tions. Music hunters have accounts at Pandora and last.fm, a collec­tion of ticket stubs from this summer, and about 18 “Personal Best Of” lists. Hunters are ruthless in their pursuit of the perfect song, and go out of their way to explain a detailed opinion on everyone from Lady Gaga to Bon Iver. 
Gatherers are in love with the moment. They hear songs on the radio and slowly fall in love. They eagerly collect mixes from their hunter friends, listening intently to the music that has been handpicked for their enjoyment. They casually ask who did “that one song” on the mix they just received, in hopes of gathering more. They are passive in their pursuit of new music, and are content with the 300 songs on their iPod that they have purchased based on iTunes top-10 tracks. They are willing to fall for whatever is currently playing, but will voice an opinion if asked. They aren’t manic when it comes to new music; in fact, gatherers let new music come to them. 

This column will be devoted to the gatherers. Each week will list a differ­ent grouping of musical acts that have a significant following in the hunter’s world, but have yet to cross over the threshold into the gatherer’s camp. That means there is a task for hunters: each week, email your favorite bands or pick of the moment to me, along with a description of why they are so worthy, and I will include them in future lists. 
This is an opportunity for those who seek music to share it with those who wait for it. It is a space to exchange tastes and tracks. Whether you hunt music down like it’s your major, or adore what you own until the next great thing comes along, this column is for you. 

This Week: Neo Folk With a (Literal) Soul 
Here are two acts that aren’t afraid to drop theology into the middle of their music. Instead of Praise & Worship ready “Christian Contemporary Music,” or CCM, these acts use their folk roots to bust into a new genre that fuses the current indie-folk wave with an unabashed Christian message. 
Josh Garrels 

This Portland based one-man act has been flying politely under the radar for nearly a decade. His delicately crafted acoustic layering sets the back­ground for some serious lyrical styling. His version of “All Creatures” (“All creatures of our God and King…”) flips the church hymn on its head into a quasi-rap declamation of disarmingly poignant theology. 
Tracks to Tap: “All Creatures,” “Zion & Babylon” 
Mumford & Sons 

London-based and banjo-wielding, this quartet has perfected the musical form of building a verse into an anthem. Their folksy exterior more often than not unravels into frenetic strumming and passionate singing reminiscent of Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young. The throwback aesthetic lends itself romantic words that, though not pointedly spiritual, are an enchantingly honest look at the human condition. 
Tracks to Tap: “Sigh No More,” “The Cave” 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 

By ALEX KILPATRICK 
Scene Writer 

Whether you’re rooting for Team Edward or Team Jacob, or you just despise the entire “Twilight” franchise in all its supernatural cheesiness, you can’t argue that the soundtracks behind the films are albums that can stand completely on their own, apart from the series. 
While the “Twilight” soundtrack fea­tured mainstream alternative rock bands and the music of “New Moon” took on indie ballads to go with the film’s mournful theme, the “Eclipse” soundtrack combines soulful, jazz bal­lads with electronic indie tunes. The soundtrack balances well-known musicians like Muse, Beck and, appro­priately, Vampire Weekend, with less­er-known acts like Metric, Florence + The Machine, Fanfarlo and Eastern Conference Champions. 
The album opens with Metric’s “Eclipse (All Yours),” a rolling elec­tronic melody with a driving guitar made light by lead singer Emily Haines’ lilting voice. The heavy drum and piano beats of Florence + The Machine’s “Heavy In Your Arms” is made even more intense by the haunt­ing voice of lead singer Florence Welch, while the strings and piano of Sia’s “My Love” make up a sweet bal­
lad with a soulful voice that pro­vides a perfect emotional backdrop for the movie. 
Author of the Twilight series Stephenie Meyer has named British alternative rock super-trio Muse an inspiration for her novels and with each new movie, the soundtrack has featured a new Muse song. Although the song was not originally written with “Eclipse” in mind, the lyrics of Muse’s “Neutron Star Collision (Love is Forever)” fit perfectly along with the “Eclipse” storyline: “Now, I’ve got nothing left to lose / You take your time to choose / I can tell you now without a trace of fear / That my love will be forever.” 
The Bravery’s “Ours” is an upbeat, danceable alt-rock anthem, while Fanfarlo’s “Atlas” is an acoustic folksy tune with appropriately introspective lyrics, “Next spring will bring you back again / … / And maybe you will be the one / Who’ll draw the line in the sand / For us to cross.” 
The Black Keys’ “Chop and Change” brings a jazzy, blues-rock feel to the album, but the song is an unfortunately short contribution from the indie rock band at only two and a half minutes. The Dead Weather’s “Rolling In On A Burning Tire” has a dark, brooding tone that serves as background music for the movie’s ominous moments. 
Beck and Bat for Lashes collaborat­ed to create a perfect mash up of light but fast-paced music with “Let’s Get Lost,” while Vampire Weekend’s “Jonathan Low” is one of the more catchy and upbeat tracks on the album in spite of lyrics that fit well with the movie’s often violent tone: “Violence from without / And anger from without / Crawling through the fields / Informing next of kin / They all turned their backs / But they all knew his name / And if he could return / They’d probably do the 
same.” 
Eastern 
Conference 
Champions mix 
heavy yet excel­
lent guitar riffs 
with rough, 
throaty vocals 
to create “A 
Million Miles 
An Hour,” a 
song that bal­
ances out the 
album well, 
while Band of 
Horses’ “Life 
On Earth” is 

a slow-paced and relaxed tune full of soft harmonies. Cee Lo Green, singer of Gnarls Barkley, contributed “What Part of Forever,” a light upbeat melody with lyrics appropriate to the movie’s themes: “Run, run, run away so lost, lost, never coming home / Rollin’, rollin’ down a track / … / Our love, I hope it’s not too late / That’s the road, that’s the load, that’s the role.” 
Overall, the soundtrack certainly serves as an album in its own right. It’s a diverse collaboration between various artists, both big name bands and indie acts, seeking to reach out to a younger audience. 


‘The Twilight Saga: Eclipse’ Soundtrack 
Label: Chop Shop/Atlantic Best Tracks: “My Love,” “Chop and Change,” “Life on Earth” 
Contact Alex Kilpatrick at ackilpat@hotmail.com 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, August 31, 2010 
MLB 




Ramirez adjusts to life with Ozzie, White Sox 
the disabled list from July 20 to where he was adored by Boston 

Associated Press 
Aug. 20 with a right calf strain fans before he was traded to the 

CLEVELAND — Manny and missed 33 games. Dodgers in 2008. Ramirez will have to follow two Guillen said it’s possible That summer, he hit .396 with nonnegotiable rules if he’s going Ramirez could play on Tuesday if 17 homers, propelling LA to a to play for White Sox manager he feels up to it. Guillen plans to postseason berth. Ozzie Guillen. use Ramirez primarily as a des-The White Sox can’t expect 
No. 1: Stretch with your team-ignated hitter and will bat him that, but that’s why they got him. mates. fifth. “That’s the reason we made 
No. 2: Be on the field for the The White Sox are trying to the move,” Guillen said. “He’s not national anthem. reach the playoffs for the first going to be a savior. He will help 
That’s it. Well, he may have to time since 2008. That year, they us, but he can’t save us. We need trim the dreadlocks. But that’s traded for Ken Griffey Jr. before to get all our guys as a group to about it. the July 31 deadline, but he had play better.” 
“I want him to feel comfortable little impact down the stretch or Although Guillen doesn’t have here,” Guillen said Monday. “I in the postseason. many rules, the White Sox will want him to like it here. I want Griffey and Ramirez certainly require Ramirez to abide by their him to have fun and I want him were different characters. appearance clause, which main-to be Manny.” Guillen feels Ramirez is misun-tains players keep their hair 
Back to frighten pitchers who derstood. He doesn’t anticipate neat. Ramirez will have to cut his haven’t seen him regularly in a having any trouble with him, and dreadlocks, which currently flow few years, Ramirez will try to get he’s confident the enigmatic to the middle of his back. Chicago back to the AL playoffs. superstar will be easily accepted Williams expects Ramirez to 
As expected, the White Sox in Chicago’s clubhouse. comply with the club policy claimed the unpredictable but “People have the wrong idea established by owner Jerry productive 12-time All-Star slug-about Manny,” he said. “I don’t Reinsdorf. ger on waivers from the Los think Manny is a bad guy or a “From my understanding it is Angeles Dodgers, counting on his pain in the butt. It’s funny how not going to be an issue and he is powerful bat, full of so many people say Manny is being going to make an adjustment October swings and homers, to Manny. Manny is being real. I and conform to how we like to help them make a postseason never see anyone on his team get have our players represented out push. mad at him because he goes there,” Williams said. 
“Hopefully, he can come in about his business.” Guillen made it clear that he here and give us some help,” White Sox general manager won’t tell Ramirez anything White Sox first baseman Paul Kenny Williams said he consult-other than where he’s hitting. Konerko said. “We need to make ed with his staff before pursuing “If Jerry has any problem with up some ground. There’s no Ramirez. his hair or the way he wears his doubt Manny can hit. He makes In the end, it was an easy call. uniform, they got to go directly to any team better.” “If I felt that this was some-him,” Guillen said, pretending to 
Chicago began a key 10-game thing that was going to be dis-wash his hands. “That’s not my trip to Cleveland, Boston and ruptive, then obviously we department. Guys can go out Detroit on Monday night, wouldn’t have done it,” Williams there buck naked, and if they although Ramirez is not expected said. “But I think this is some-win games for me, I’m happy.” to join the White Sox, his fourth thing we need in order to help us Ramirez had early success due this year, with the rest to be Konerko said. “But just because major league team, until achieve our goals this year. It’s with the Dodgers, but the last paid over the next three years. we have him, we can’t ignore the Tuesday. They began the day 4½ not just about adding another two years haven’t gone as well. The White Sox were awarded a other aspects of the game. We’ve games behind first-place bat, it’s adding a bat that can do He was slapped with a 50-game waiver claim on Ramirez last got to play defense, we’ve got to Minnesota in the AL Central. damage against the league’s very suspension after a failed drug week, giving them until 1:30 p.m. pitch. He’s a great piece to have 
The 38-year-old Ramirez best pitchers, and there is a dif-test last year. This season, he has EDT on Tuesday to complete a but we can’t let down anywhere returns to the AL after spending ference.” been slowed by leg injuries, trade with the Dodgers. else.” parts of three seasons in Los His first appearance for which led to the Dodgers decid-In Guillen’s lineup, Ramirez White Sox infielder Omar Angeles, a stay that ended on a Chicago will come against the ing to part ways with him for and his 554 career homers will Vizquel was thrilled to be reunit­somewhat sour note. He batted lowly Indians, the team that nothing in return. fit nicely into a batting order that ed with Ramirez. They were .311 with eight homers and 40 drafted him and enjoyed his pro-Ramirez’s salary is $20 million already has Konerko, Alex Rios teammates on two Cleveland RBIs in 66 games with the duction for eight seasons. He’ll in the final season of a two-year and Carlos Quentin. teams that made the World Dodgers this season, but was on then head to Fenway Park, contract, but only $5 million is “He’s a Hall of Fame hitter,” Series. 

NFL 


Javarris James prepares to follow cousin Edgerrin’s steps 
Cincinnati could be his final cousin’s footsteps in college as nerback Ray Fisher, as a poten-have a good feel for this offense. 
Associated Press 

opportunity to play in a Colts uni-well as his choice of NFL teams. tial kickoff and punt returner. So I just hope for best. 
INDIANAPOLIS — Javarris form. NFL teams are required to A four-year letterwinner for the Through the first three presea-It’s a learning process. Each James, an undrafted rookie run-trim the preseason roster to the Hurricanes, he rushed for 2,162 son games, Javarris James is the week (of training camp), I’ve ning back, understands his situa-regular season maximum of 53 yards and 18 touchdowns during team’s second-leading rusher been getting better. I’ve been tion very well. players by Saturday afternoon. his collegiate career. Despite with 53 yards in 15 carries. He limiting my mistakes in practice 
A cousin of former Indianapolis “(The Bengals game) is big for those productive numbers, he has yet to return a kickoff or and in the games. Colts Pro Bowl running back a young guy like me. It’s the last was not selected in last April’s punt in a preseason game, but “But this is a big game for me Edgerrin James, the younger preseason game and that’s when draft. that could come against the (Thursday night). I understand James knows that time is run-they make a lot of final (roster) He is battling first-year run-Bengals. that I’m going to be able to play ning short for him to show what decisions. This is basically my ning back Devin Moore to be the “I feel like I can play a lot of a lot (against the Bengals), so I he can do to the Indianapolis season right here,” James, a for-Colts’ fourth running back. He’s special teams. I can also play the just want to try and showcase coaching staff. mer University of Miami back, also in contention with Moore, fullback position (on offense), my talents. Not just for the Colts, 
The team’s final preseason said Monday. along with rookie wide receiver I’ve got good receiving skills and but for the other 31 (NFL) game Thursday night against James followed in his older Brandon James and rookie cor-I can block,” he said. “I feel like I teams.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Down duvet comforter with match-DUBS’ INN Our destiny changes with our
ing pillows $50. Call 574-654-3241 WEEKEND B&B FOR ND ——————————————— GAMES/EVENTS 4 BR HOME
FOR SALE FOR RENT PERSONAL thoughts; we shall become what we Part-time photographer, sales asso-SLEEPS UP TO 8 ADULTS. 
wish to become, do what we wish to Barely used Giant Cypress ST1020 do, when our habitual thoughts cor­
ciate for JC Penney Portrait Studio, 4 bedroom 3 QUEEN, 2 SINGLE BEDS, 4 19” women’s silver green bicycle. respond with our desires.
hours flexible, 2 bath COUCHES, 3 FULL BATHS. Paid $500. Asking $235 OBO. Call -Orison Swett Marden
salary depends on experience. tri-level in Arlington Heights-1 MILE FROM CAMPUS Got movies? We’ll take any kind! 574-654-3241 ———————————————
Call Jackie 5 minutes from campus. FREE MEALS AND SHUTTLE Stop by 232 Ryan Hall with your ——————————————— 574-277-5638 New kitchen, bath. AVAILABLE, NON SMOKING. selection to arrange bartering The secret of success in life is for a man to be ready for his opportunity
Guitar- Jeff Hanneman 2400 fret or send resume $800/DAY. DUBS RETURNS agreements in exchang for movie when it comes.
electric $265 OBO. Call Keith CALLS rental to entertain Ryan ladies on Call 574-233-2973. to smp0319@lifetouch.com 574-323-6273 (574-210-4030) those lazy, boring nights. 
Earl of Beaconsfield ——————————————— 

—————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
——————————————— ——————————————— 
Tuesday, August 31, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
U.S. OPEN 

Clijsters comes back in U.S. Open 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Defending champion Kim Clijsters briefly lost her step on a windy day before recovering in time to win her 15th straight match at the U.S. Open. 
The second-seeded Belgian beat Hungary’s Greta Arn 6-0, 7-5 in the first round Monday. She fell behind 4-0 in the sec­ond set, and the 104th-ranked Arn had a chance to serve out the set at 5-4. But Clijsters got the break, then did it again to clinch the straight-set victory. 
Clijsters said she wasn’t aggressive enough playing with the wind at her back early in the second set, waiting for the ball instead of moving up for it. 
“She kind of put me under pressure a little bit where it should have been the other way around,” she said. 
A year ago, Clijsters was a wild-card entry in only her third tournament back after 2 1/2 years away from the sport. Now she’s one of the favorites to win the Open. 
Melanie Oudin and Francesca Schiavone also know how quickly perceptions can change. Oudin has strug­gled with higher expectations since her crowd-pleasing run to the U.S. Open quarterfinals last year. So has Schiavone after her breakthrough French Open title in June. 
But neither showed any signs of the pressure in cruis­ing to dominant first-round wins. 
Oudin, the 18-year-old from Marietta, Ga., needed just 56 minutes to beat Olga Savchuk of Ukraine 6-3, 6-0. Schiavone, the Italian who won her first Grand Slam weeks before her 30th birthday, dispatched Ayumi Morita of Japan 6-1, 6-0 in 58 minutes. 

If anything, Schiavone seems to be having fun in the spot­light. Asked why she’s a fan favorite, she playfully replied, “I attract them because I'm beautiful.” 
Schiavone acknowledged that maybe she’s a bit more motivated at a Grand Slam than at other tournaments. Schiavone, seeded No. 6, had been just 3-6 since winning at Roland Garros. She lost in the first round at Wimbledon and dropped her opening match at 
MLB 

Clemens pitches not guilty in court 

three other tournaments. 
She was pleased that her first-round match was in the grandstand — a year ago, she was relegated to an outer court. 
“I like to do it, because adrenaline is coming up and I enjoy much more than play in faraway court,” she said with a laugh. “Maybe because I am 30 years old and now I want to enjoy with people.” 
Fifth-seeded Sam Stosur of Australia, who lost to Schiavone in the French final, dropped her first set Monday before rallying to beat Elena Vesnina of Russia 3-6, 7-6 (2), 6-1. 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — Roger Clemens put his right hand on the lectern, leaned down toward the microphone and made what might be the most important pitch of his life: “Not guilty, your honor.” 
Those words, uttered Monday in a strong, confident voice by the seven-time Cy Young Award winner sporting a black blazer and blond highlights in his hair, marked the official beginning of a court case that could taint baseball even further and land the “Rocket” in jail. 
U.S. District Judge Reggie Walton presided over an arraignment hearing that lasted less than 14 minutes in the cere­monial courtroom at the federal courthouse, across the street from the Capitol. 
Walton set April 5 as the start of jury selection — the Monday of the first full week of the 2011 baseball season, and also around the time a case involving Barry Bonds, the all-time home run king, could be wrapping up in San Francisco. 
Pete Rose, Darryl Strawberry, Dwight Gooden and Denny McLain are among former base­ball stars to have spent time in jail. Clemens and Bonds, who chased history on the field throughout their careers, now could be chasing history off it. 
They are both in jeopardy of becoming the first baseball star jailed because of a conviction related to the performance­enhancing-drug imbroglio that has sullied their sport for much of the past 15 years. 
If convicted of six counts — three of making false state­ments, two of perjury and one of obstruction of Congress — Clemens could face up to 30 years in prison and a $1.5 mil­lion fine, although 15 to 21 months is the more likely sen­tence under federal guidelines. 
As he has throughout the process, Clemens again fought any suggestion that he cheated during a 23-season career that ended with 354 wins and 4,672 strikeouts. He won his first three Cy Young awards in 1986, '87 and ‘91, dipped ever so slightly, then won four more in 1997, ‘98, 2001 and 2004, at the age of 42. 
On Monday, he was in Washington because of testimo­ny he gave to Congress in 2008. He went before a House commit­tee to clear his name after becoming a prominent figure in the Mitchell Report, which came out the year before with an unflinching account of baseball’s drug crisis. 
Back then, Clemens testified: “Let me be clear. I have never taken steroids or HGH.” 
This time, his words were fewer but every bit as forceful. And his actions spoke of a man who refused to let a court appearance ruin his day. 
He arrived at the courthouse four hours early to go through fingerprinting and paperwork that is often left for after the offi­cial work in court is complete. 
Clemens apparently was trying to get to North Carolina in time to play in the first round of a weeklong amateur golf tourna­ment. He arrived at The Pearl golf course in Calabash, N.C., shortly after 5 p.m. and headed for the practice range. 
After going through processing early in the day, Clemens and his team of lawyers — led by Rusty Hardin of Houston — ate in the main cafeteria. 
In the lunchroom, Clemens offered no comment, other than a friendly “Hey, how ya doing,” to an Associated Press reporter. Hardin also didn’t comment, saying he didn’t want to violate the gag order Walton has imposed on those involved in the trial. 
Before the short hearing, Clemens could be seen striding between meeting rooms on the sixth floor as Hardin and prose­cuting attorneys Daniel Butler and Steven Durham exchanged discovery documents. 
Then, Clemens walked into the 300-seat chamber, adorned with statues depicting ancient arbiters of justice and portraits of former federal judges. He adjusted his cuffs and collar a few times, said a word or two to Hardin, sat down, then stood when Walton entered. 
Hardin waived his client’s right to have the charges read, then Walton asked for Clemens’ plea. 
“Not guilty, your honor,” he said, before going back to the defense table where he sat still while the lawyers and judge parsed over hearing dates and discovery issues. 
Clemens was released with no bail and no real restrictions. His only discernible reaction came when Durham asked that the court hold his passport, and Clemens turned to one of his attorneys and shook his head. 
“I think he's well-known enough that if he were to depart the country, someone would know who he is,” Walton said. 
The case has been portrayed, probably simplistically, as one of Clemens’ word against those who gave unfriendly testimony against him in Congress. The key figures there are his former trainer Brian McNamee, who said the pitcher did use steroids and HGH. Former teammate Andy Pettitte also told congres­sional investigators that Clemens told him he had used HGH — a conversation Clemens said Pettitte “misremembers.” 
But in asking to push the start of the trial to next year — with the agreement of the prosecu­tors — Hardin said there is much scientific evidence to comb through, as well, including pre­sumably the syringes McNamee says he used to inject Clemens with drugs. 
On Monday, Hardin was given access to the grand jury testimo­ny and FBI interviews that were used to indict Clemens, along with a 34-page master index and 12 computer discs of evi­dence. Durham called the evi­dence “voluminous.” 
“There’s a good deal of scien­tific evidence that needs to be tested,” Hardin told the judge. “We’re at the mercy of the experts.” 
While the crux of the case is whether Clemens used steroids or HGH, any conviction would have to come on evidence that he lied to Congress about it. It’s a sort of backdoor way that authorities have used to ensnare some of America’s most high-profile athletes who have been accused of using PEDs. 


page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, August 31, 2010 
they’re going to be pretty solid through and through.” 
Schedule 
continued from page 16 
these two teams will be more like our style. 
“I think the fans are going to see two teams that are very similar in their style this weekend, and I would expect it to be the same when we got out west to UCLA.” 
Both teams are talented, too. 
“Santa Clara’s got a really good goalkeeper [junior Bianca Henninger], and I think she’s going to make a difference,” Waldrum said “They also have a young girl we were recruiting a little bit, [Julie] Johnson, the freshman in their mid­field that they’ve got this year. With UCLA, they ’ve got kids like [junior mid ­fielder] Sydney Leroux, who won the Golden Boot at the under-20 World Cup. They’re really loaded with talent-you look at that ros­ter, and it’s made up of a lot of national team kids, so 
Wedged in between the Broncos and Bruins will be upstart Texas Tech, which has a familiar face at the helm in coach Tom Stone, who played for Waldrum at his first coaching job at MacArthur High School in Irving, Tex. 
“[Texas] Tech is going to be new for us because we haven’t played them since 2004 and they’ve got a new coach in Tom Stone that’s been there about three years now, and he’s proba­bly been the one coach that they ’ve had over the last decade that has actually been able to turn that pro­gram around, ” Waldrum said. “I’m going to expect that he ’s going to try to play as much soccer as he can too because that was kind of his style when he was a player.” 
The Irish will take on Santa Clara Friday at 7:30 
p.m. at Alumni Field. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 


Silva 
continued from page 16 
out and digging her heart out. 
“She’s an explosive player,” Irish coach Debbie Brown said. “She plays with a lot of experience and emotion, keeps everybody fired up and talks to them on the court a lot.” 
Silva’s fired-up attitude is clear to her coaches and team­mates, but she also has the stats to back it up. In her sophomore season, Silva recorded 323 digs, the most of any returning player, and added in 22 over the weekend in the Shamrock Invitational. But the numbers don’t come without some hard work. 
When she joined the team in 2008, Silva’s speed often caused her legs to move faster than her arms, making her passes jerky. This problem being vocal and keeping her team engaged and involved,” Brown said. 
Her team is what is most important to Silva and what keeps her motivated through­out the season, athletically and academically. When she came on a college visit in high school to Notre Dame, she tried to dislike the school. A southern California native, Silva had ties to USC but was pulled in by the atmosphere on campus. 
“I was blown away by the amount of spirit, tradition and pride that I could potentially be a part of,” she said. “I also felt an immediate click with many of the girls on the team as well as the coaches. I truly felt at home and knew that I could not pass up on the opportunity. 
“I have been really self-moti­vated my entire life and am 
never satisfied. 
I want to con-

also came from “(Silva’s) an explosive tinue to 
her background player. She plays with improve and in soccer, not get better 
a lot of experience and
voll eyb all , every day and 
emotion, keeps 
which came as know that day a second choice everybody fred up and in and day out at first. I am giving 
talks to them on the
“Initially I everything I
court a lot.” 
liked soccer have to my better, but then team. I get I think the Debbie Brown uneasy think-challenge of a ing that while I
Irish head coach 
new sport was really what pulled me in, especially because I started out as a hit­ter,” Silva said. “I am relative­ly small, so having to prove myself against other taller opponents was a lot of fun. I fell in love with the fast-paced nature of the game.” 
Learning to slow down the game in her body and mind has made Silva the stronger player that she is today. From the start of her freshman year to now, Brown feels that Silva has improved in all of her skills on the court, including becoming more patient in her passing and smoothing out the bumpy passes. Furthermore, she has improved to become a skilled defensive specialist, able to read and understand a team’s strategies in order to make better defensive moves herself. 
But Silva’s growth is not lim­ited to her athletic abilities. 
“As a player, she’s improved in all areas, and as a leader, she’s progressed in terms of am resting 
somebody else could be out there working harder, so I do everything I can to make sure that doesn’t happen.” 
As Silva and her teammates work toward another success­ful season in hopes of a second consecutive undefeated Big East season and a run in the NCAA Tournament, there are only a few goals on their minds. 
“As a team and individually I think a huge goal is to make each practice, each match bet­ter than the one before,” Silva said. “Every day we have to be focused and united as a team to get better. A huge theme for our team this year is the con­cept of “one team, one goal.” 
Silva and the Irish will be advancing in their journey to perfection this week as they travel to Reno, Nev., to play in the Nevada Invitational Friday and Saturday. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 

Tuesday, August 31, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, August 31, 2010 

Rafael 
continued from page 16 
During her freshman year, the team did not perform up to its ability, but the memory of a less successful season has stayed with her for the last few years. As a sopho­more, Rafael and the Irish went to the NCAA Final Four for the first time in program history. They returned again last year, but injuries held them back once again. 
Now, as her last season with the Irish approaches, Rafael wants to change that. 
“I would be lying to say I would not be dreaming of a national championship this year,” Rafael said. “Coming so close these past two years, and especially after last year’s loss, the hunger for achieving more is even greater.” 
Unlike the lengthy roster of a football team, the tennis squad’s small group changes the dynamic of the team itself. 
“If we were any bigger, I feel that we wouldn’t be as close as we are now,” she said. “We know the ins and outs of each other and are able to take time to support everyone on the team because there aren ’t that many of us.” 
Despite the fact that ten­nis, as a sport, relies heavily on individual performances, Rafael has found no negative competition during her time with the Irish. 
“We are competitors, but we use that to push each other to become better play­ers and better people, ” Rafael said. “Where other teams seem that they are more concerned about win­ning for their own individual goals, we play as a team and for the team. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
Zhang 
continued from page 16 
ranked recruit in the nation, according to Golfweek. Zhang’s older brother, Dustin, is a senior on the Irish men’s golf team. 
“Nicole has so much potential,” Holt said. “From tee to green, she doesn’t have a single glaring weak­ness in her game. More importantly, she enjoys her­self out there and loves the game.” 

As for the upcoming sea­son, Holt said she is confi­dent Zhang will have a smooth and successful start to her collegiate career. 
“Nicole has made the tran­sition into college with great ease,” Holt said. “She is a wonderful young lady with a great personality, and she has fit in well. The team is excited to have her here and the players truly believe Nicole can help the team get to where they want to be.” 
Although Zhang is already an accomplished player on the national circuit, Holt said she still has areas of her game to improve. 
“Even really good players can get better at something every day,” Holt said. “Even though Nicole has a com­plete and well -rounded game, she could work on her consistency. If she improves upon [that], she will be able to play some amazing golf this year.” 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 
RECSPORTS 

Water polo squad starts slowly 
Irish lose three out of four during first weekend tournament 

Special to The Observer 
Notre Dame began its season by dropping three of four match­es, as the Irish fell to the Ohio Squirrels, Michigan State and Michigan, and beat Virginia. In the first game of the weekend, the Irish found themselves up against a Squirrels team com­posed of former Dayton and Ohio players. The Squirrels scored a quick goal in the first quarter, but the Irish were able to even up the game on a man-up goal by senior captain Matt Fordonski. A back­and-forth affair, aided by two goals by freshman Geno Freeman, resulted in a 6-4 Ohio lead at halftime. 
The Squirrels came out strong in the third quarter, tallying five goals and utilizing a counter­attack offense. The Irish were able to net two more opportuni­ties, a five-meter shot by sopho­more Jon Hancher and a late man-up goal by junior Drew Wroblewski, resulting in the final score of 14-6. 

The Irish, looking to rebound from their disappointing per­formance in the first game, matched up against Michigan State, the top seed in the tourna­ment. Notre Dame allowed the Spartans to score 12 seconds into the game. Junior captain Dan Geisman found the equalizer a minute later, but Michigan State quickly responded with two more goals to end the quarter. 
The Spartans started the sec­ond quarter hot as well, running off two more goals before Geisman stopped the bleeding to make the score 5-2. Michigan State would put in one more before half. 
At the start of the third, Freeman came up with a big stop in goal, blanking a Spartan on an open look. It wasn’t enough, however, as the Spartans would run off three straight goals. Fordonski would score a lob to end the third quarter, 9-3. 
During the fourth, Irish again struggled in their transition defense, allowing two goals before sophomore Jon Hancher scored on a man-advantage off a cross-cage pass. The final score of 11-4 was disappointing, but the Irish felt they had played a much better game then their first. 
Geisman started off the third match for the Irish with a power­ful skip shot to the upper right corner for a goal and 1-0 lead. Fordonski managed to score another goal to quickly add to the Irish lead. Virginia struggled to produce offensively because of Notre Dame’s solid defense, high­lighted by the goalkeeping efforts of sophomore Tate Kernell. 


Viriginia could only produce one goal in the first half during a 5­on-6 opportunity. Sebastian Testero made easy work of the Virginia’s defense and scored from hole set easily, and Geisman put yet another goal on the board to finish out the half with the Irish in the lead, 4-1. 
Virginia put up a fight in the third quarter, scoring three goals on Freeman, who made an incredible save against a Virginia player on an one-on-one at point blank range. Geisman, Fordonski and Testero all scored a goal in the third to keep the Irish up 7-4. 
The Irish powered ahead in the fourth with two long shots from Testero. Kernell made two great stops to keep Virginia from creat­ing any kind of offensive momen­tum. Virginia finally managed to get one more goal in the fourth quarter on a counter-attack opportunity, but Fordonski fin­ished the scoring with a cross-cage skip shot from six meters out that found its way past the goalkeeper’s reach. The final game of the weekend started out slowly, as both Notre Dame and Michigan committed multiple turnovers. Sloppy play by both teams resulted in a 1-1 tie after Testero scored a lob shot toward the end of the first quar­ter. 
The Irish were able to take the lead early in the second quarter on a goal by Freeman. Michigan netted a goal shortly after and the two teams played to a 2-2 tie at half time. 
Two goals by Michigan in the third quarter gave them a 4-2 lead until the Irish were able to stop the bleeding with a goal of their own. Down by one heading into the fourth quarter, the Irish felt like they had the momentum to take control of the game, but three quick goals on counter attack opportunities gave Michigan a 7-3 lead. The Irish continued to fight back behind Hancher, who provided two goals to his team’s effort, but the push was not enough. While the results were not as expected for the Irish, several positives were taken from the weekend. 
“This is a good starting place for our season,” Fordonski said. “We have a lot of potential and it is still early. Look for us to make a serious push for the conference title in October.” 
Kernell shared the same senti­ments. 
“Hard work, both mentally and physically, is going to be our focus going forward,” he said. “We’ll see a different team start to develop in the upcoming weeks and look forward to dis­playing it at Michigan State on Sept. 18 and 19.” 

Monday, August 30. 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Tuesday, August 31, 2010 page 16 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Tough road ahead 
Irish to face diffcult 

non-conference schedule  
By MIKE GOTIMER  
Sports Writer  
No. 4 Notre Dame knows  
this stretch is coming every  
y e a r, a n d t h e t i m e h a s  
come for the Irish to begin  
their challenging non-con- 
ference schedule.  
This year’s slate is no dif­ 
ferent from previous ones,  
a s N o t r e D a m e w i l l p l a y  
t w o o f i t s n e x t t h r e e  
m a t c h e s a g a i n s t t o p -1 0  
West Coast foes. But Irish  
c o a c h R a n d y Wa l d r u m  
k now s i t ’s a n ece ssi ty f o r  
his team each year in order  
to earn favorable se ed ing  
i n t h e N C A A To u r n a m e n t  
a n d b o o s t i t s c h a n c e s t o  
w i n t h e p r o g r a m ’s t h i r d  
national title.  
“The interesting thing is  
that it could make a differ­ 
ence in whether you open  
t h e N C A A To u r n a m e n t a t  
home or away at the end of  
t h e y e a r, ” Wa l d r u m s a i d . “ I t s h o u l d b e r e a l l y a n interesting two weeks. The  PAT COVENEY/The Observer Irish senior defender Julie Scheidler on the attack in Notre Dame’s Nov. 20 match against Oregon State. Scheidler and the Irish will face two top-10 teams in their next three games.  
thing that you thrive on is  
that you want to play good  t r a v e l t o N o . 3 U C L A t h e C l a r a ’s g o i n g t o p l a y t h e p l a y ver y a t t r a c t i ve, ver y  
t e a m s , a n d I c a n ’ t w a i t  f o l l o w i n g F r i d a y. B o t h sam e s ys t em w e pl a y an d attacking soccer. Neither  
until it gets here.”  t e a m s p r e s e n t a t o u g h t h e y p l a y v e r y m u c h l i k e on e o f t he t e am s a r e lik e  
T h e I r i s h b e g i n t h e i r  m a t c h u p f o r N o t r e D a m e w e d o , ” Wa l d r u m s a i d . Big Ten teams that are real  
gauntlet on Friday against  beca u s e they play sim ilar “UCLA plays a little bit of a p h y s i c a l , B i g E a s t t e a m s  
N o . 8 S a n t a C l a r a , w h i c h  s t y l e s o f s o c c e r t o t h e d i f f e r e n t s y s t e m t h a n w e a r e r e a l p h y s i c a l , a n d  
beat Notre Dame 2-0, last  Irish. do, but they also try to pos­ 
s e a s o n i n C a l i f o r n i a , a n d  “ I t h i n k t h a t S a n t a sess the ball and they try see SCHEDULE/page 12  

ND WOMEN’S GOLF 
Freshman competes inUSOpen 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
For many college golfers, the ultimate aspiration is to one day tee it up with the professionals. Players log endless hours at the practice range and putting green in an attempt to achieve this dream. 
For freshman Nicole Zhang, this dream has already become a reality. 
Before ever making a shot at the collegiate level, Zhang competed this summer in the 
U.S. Women’s Open, making her the first Irish golfer ever to do so. Zhang fired back-to-back 78s for a two -day total of 14-over at Oakmont Country Club near Pittsburgh. 
Although she missed the cut, Irish coach Susan Holt was optimistic about Zhang’s performance. 
“The U.S. Open experience was amazing for Nicole,” Holt said. “She learned so much playing a course like that in such difficult condi­tions. Playing against such amazing competition and under immense pressure will help her in the future.” 
Zhang was the No. 10 ­
see ZHANG/page 14 


ND VOLLEYBALL 

Silva keeping team focused 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
A familiar voice on the Irish volleyball court has rung out louder than ever before in the first few weeks on campus, and it doesn’t belong to one of the coaches. 
Frenchy Silva, a junior libero and defensive special­ist, has stepped up her game and is keeping her teammates focused as they begin their 2010 season. 
Despite standing at only 5­foot-4, Silva has never let her height keep her down on the court. Instead, she can be seen flashing across the court to rescue a teammate setter who played the first ball, set­ting up a strong defensive lay-
see SILVA/page 12 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer Junior Frenchy Silva celebrates an Irish point in Sunday’s loss to Arizona. Silva has the most digs last year among returning players. 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Lone senior Rafael ready for leadership 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 

A year after her team graduated three players, Kristen Rafael is ready for the challenge of being Notre Dame’s only senior. 
“Every year, we are a team that works hard and is known for their ability to compete,” Rafael said. “We pride ourselves on making sure the other teams know that when you play us, you will get nothing easy.” 
As a four-year letter-win­ner and team MVP recipi­ent in high school, Rafael knew she was looking to play at a school where she could both focus on balanc­ing tennis and academics. Since the recruiting process began, she always felt at home at Notre Dame. Rafael said she could not help but feel the pull of the family -like atmosphere of the team and the traditional aspects of the school. 
“I thought that if I was going to play for a univer­sity, I wanted to make sure I was a part of that univer­sity,” she said. “That every time I stepped on the court, I wasn’t just playing for my team or my coaches, but for all of Notre Dame, for all of the students and the tradition.” 
see RAFAEL/page 14 







