the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Student Affairs prepares for new leadership 
Poorman reflects on 

Doyle ‘humbled’ and ‘excited’ to return to term,expressesgratitude 
campus, take over as VP for Student Affairs for opportunity to serve 
By SARAH MERVOSH to make massive changes News Editor when he takes over the posi­tion, but instead has three 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
simple goals for his new job. 

When Fr. Thomas Doyle was “I hope [to be] a good stu-
News Writer 

a student at Notre Dame, he dent, adidn’t think he was going to In an administrative posi­good and pass Calculus — let alone tion that requires communi­effective return to campus some day to cating with trustees, teacher and be the vice president for University officers, faculty, a good Student Affairs. 
alumni and students, Vice priest,” he “To think that it’s 25 years President for Student Affairs said. 

later, I’m back on campus and Fr. Mark Poorman said the Doyle,I’m on the same spiritual jour­core of his job is looking out who gradu­ney with others that I began in for the individual student’s ated from 1985, I’m just anxious to con-experience. 
Notre Dame tinue that journey,” Doyle said. 

“Sometimes you never know and was “There is just a great privilege when you get up in the morn-later ordained in the Basilica and opportunity to be back …

ing how your day is going to of the Sacred Heart in 1998, to try to shape and impact unfold because with 11,400 said his experiences at the something that had such astudents, there are a lot of 

profound role in my own life.” see POORMAN/page 6 Doyle said he does not plan see DOYLE/page 4 





Fall Forum to bring Friedman to campus 
By AARON STEINER 
Senior Staff Writer 
After a year’s hiatus, the Notre Dame Forum will return to cam­pus this fall, focused on the econ­omy, human development and the role of ethics in rebuilding the global marketplace, the University announced Monday. 
Prominent New York Times colum­nist Thomas Friedman has been confirmed as one of the guest speak­ers. 
The 2010 Forum is titled “The Global Marketplace and the Common Good” and is scheduled for Nov. 3. According to a press release, the Forum will examine “the inherent demand for an essential moral framework in the quest for human development.” 
University President Fr. John Jenkins said in a statement that the Forum comes after the world was “shaken” by the current eco­nomic crisis. 
Jenkins said the Forum will 

see FORUM/page 4 



New landlord enters off-campus housing market 
By AMANDA GRAY AND SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writers 

When sophomore Meghan Donoghue decided to live off campus her senior year, she worked with Kramer Properties, a local retail company. A few weeks after signing her lease, however, she found out via e-mail that a different company would be managing her house. 
“We signed for our house with Kramer, paid the first and last month’s rent and the security deposit and about two weeks later received an e-mail that Kramer was no longer our landlord,” Donoghue said. “I know a lot of people who had signed with Kramer were really confused or upset when they heard about the switch.” 
Campus Apartments, a national retail management company, recently took over Kramer Properties, said he sold 56 homes and Notre Dame Apartments in February 2008 to Gross and Cohen Real Estate Investors. 
a  p o r t i o n  o f  K r a m e r  
Properties.  
M a r k  K r a m e r,  o w n e r  o f  

Gross and Cohen decided to have Campus Apartments, a national chain managing 
off -campus housing at schools across the U.S., man­age the homes and apart­ments for them, president Michael Cohen said. 
This is the first time the company has worked with Campus Apartments, but “they have great, national quality,” Cohen said. 
For students who have not yet signed a lease, the man­agement change could work to their advantage. 
Rent for the homes now managed under Campus Apartments is lower than when they were managed under Kramer. Cohen said the lowering of the rent was a joint decision between Gross and Cohen investors and Campus Apartments. 
“There were not many 
see HOUSING/page 4 




Community reacts to hunger strike 
By TONY RIVERA 
News Writer 

With the conclusion of a week -long, student-led hunger strike against the University’s involvement with HEI Hotels, the administration affirmed that, after carefully look­ing into the alleged poor treatment of the company’s workers, it found no sup­port for the claims and its position had not changed. 
The student protestors likewise said their position had not changed. 
The hunger strike began last Monday when students gathered in front of the Main Building wearing orange jumpsuits and 
see STRIKE/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER College Democrats win Club of the Year page 3  Disney Distractions page 11  Baseball takes on Toledo 20  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Tuesday, April 27, 2010 

INSIDE COLUMN 

I don’t want to grow up! 
Remember when you could spend the whole day outside playing in the mud, just rolling around having fun with your friends? That is until your mom or dad came out and saw how dirty you had become. Then you were unfortunately subject to the most intense cleaning of your life, generally from the harsh spray of a garden hose, but it was still worth it. 
As my friend 


Mary Claire 
Sheila and I pen-guin-slid and tack-O’Donnell led my friends into 
Assistant
the muddy volley-

Scene Editor
ball courts behind St. Mary’s Lake this Sunday at Muddy Sunday, we realized that we were getting that chance again. At age 20, we were able to once again be kids, reliving our days as eight-year­old tomboys. Furthermore, it was a great way to blow off steam before we had to buckle down and get down to business before the beginning of finals. 
Although I have loved growing up, I really miss the simplicity of my child­hood years. I miss the mudpies and the mudfights. I miss the friendly competi­tions against the kids in my neighbor­hood. 
It’s by hearkening back to these ideals that make the best dorm or university events. As much fun as it is to jump around in a bouncy house for a few minutes, it’s these simple, seemingly foolish events that bring out hordes of students. 
It’s why Bookstore Basketball, Muddy Sunday and the Chariot Race are such popular events and have droves of stu­dents registering. It’s why I think the Farley Fiasco will become a hit. 
Bookstore Basketball brings back those days in elementary school when recess in the spring meant scrambling for the basketball or soccer balls. There were so many pickup games going on that spillovers onto the court or field next to you was inevitable. 
The Chariot Race reminds me of rac­ing bikes down the street, or Razor scooters when they got popular, hoping to beat out all the boys, swerving around angry motorists. It was just you against them, pumping your legs furi­ously, aiming to finally beat them and win all the pride that went along with that victory. 
Farley Fiasco is similar to this idea; it’s a seemingly childish competition in which we all love to participate. Not only that, but it involves bobsledding, one of those sports that you’ve always wanted to try, especially after watching “Cool Runnings” on every long car ride you’ve ever taken. 
These events are amusing and divert­ing, bringing joy to students even though there are still parental figures who lecture them about how muddy they have become. I hope that these events will continue for a long time to come. Maybe AnTostal, too, will begin to include them, if it goes back to its roots as a way for students to blow off steam before finals. Childish games and competitions are the best way to do that. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: HEA TH CARE IS... 







Andi Rascon  Chris DiBernardo  Jon Schommer  Matthew Kudija  Sean McPherson  
freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  
Welsh Fam  Morrissey  Knott  Siegfried  Dillon  
“Something  “Necessary.”  “Caring about  “Healthy.”  “Another Al  
that the  health.”  Gore invention.”  
Canadian prime  
minister thinks  

doesn’t work.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer T-shirts hang on clotheslines on South Quad Monday as part of The Clothesline Project, a program to address the issue of violence against women. 
OFFBEAT 

Illinois firefighters rescue dog from recliner chair 
NAPERVILLE, Ill. — Three suburban Chicago firefighters rescued a small dog that became trapped inside a mechanized recliner chair by sawing the piece of furniture apart. 
Eighty-seven-year-old owner Ken Makris says his terrier, Ebonyser, has nerve damage following his Thursday night ordeal but that he is "coming along fine." 
Firefighters who responded to an emer­gency call from the Sunrise of Naperville assisted living center Thursday arrived to find a nurse’s aide hanging onto the chair to relieve the pressure on the dog and allow it to breathe. Firefighter and paramedic Scott Bolda says the chair’s electrical controls stopped working when Ebonyser become wedged inside. 
Connecticut woman tries to use 911 as a taxi service 
NEW HAVEN, Conn.— Police in one Connecticut city have a warning for nightclub patrons: Don’t call 911 for a ride home. 
New Haven police say that’s what 28-year-old Quandria (KWAN’-dree-ah) 
Bailey did, calling the emergency line six times to 
request  a  ride  from  a  
nightclub  back  to  her  
Meriden home.  

Bailey was charged with six counts of misuse of the 911 system early Sunday. She was released on a $1,000 bond and is sched­uled to appear in court May 5. 
A telephone number for Bailey could not immedi­ately be located Sunday and it was unclear whether she had an attor­ney. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Wednesday Thursday 

IN BRIEF 
An exhibition titled “All Art is Propaganda” will be on dis­play today from 8 a.m. until 5 
p.m. The exhibit will be held in Hesburgh Library’s Special Collection Room 102. The exhibit is free and open to the public. 
The Kellogg Institute will be sponsoring a lecture titled “Imaginary Communities: Indians and Campesinos in Mexican Social Thought.” The lecture will be held today at 
12:30 p.m. in Hesburgh Center Room C-103. 
The American Red Cross and Notre Dame’s Army ROTC will be sponsoring a blood drive. The event will take place today from 1 p.m. until 7 p.m. and will be held in the LaFortune Student Center Ballroom. 
The College of Engineering will be presenting a seminar titled “Multiscale Modeling of Fracture in Metals” today at 
3:30 p.m. The event will take place in DeBartolo Hall Room 138. 
The Notre Dame baseball team will face Toledo tonight at 6:05 p.m. The game will be played in Frank Eck Stadium. Adult tickets are $5. 
The Notre Dame Jazz Bands and New Orleans Brass Band will be performing in concert tonight at 7 p.m. The perform­ance will be held in the Leighton Concert Hall of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Admission is free but tickets must be reserved. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

Friday Saturday 

Atlanta 66 / 44 Boston 53 / 36 Chicago 55 / 36 Denver 67 / 47 Houston 81 / 55 Los Angeles 68 / 55 Minneapolis 65 / 42 New York 58 / 40 Philadelphia 60 / 39 Phoenix 94 / 68 Seattle 57 / 46 St. Louis 66 / 43 Tampa 83 / 65 Washington 65 / 45 
Tuesday, April 27, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
College Democrats named top club 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
When the leaders of Notre Dame’s 334 student clubs were notified about the nomi­nation process for the Club of the Year award, the officers of the College Democrats of Notre Dame knew they had a legitimate chance at receiving the honor. 
“We listed all our accom­plishments throughout the year, and we knew we would be competitive for the award given the consistency of club events and the number of stu­dents getting involved,” jun­ior Chris Rhodenbaugh, co-president of College Democrats for 2009-10, said. 
Rhodenbaugh attributed the club’s recognition to the con­sistency of club activity, including the weekly efforts of students working on health care reform, energy issues and various foreign policy matters. 
Senior Henry Vasquez, co-president of College Democrats, said the club’s success has been a result of its strong ties to students and other campus organizations. 
“The success of the club is inextricably tied to the vision of the College Democrats — to become a nexus for the pro­gressive community at Notre Dame,” Vasquez said. “I imagine that we benefited from the nomination process because of our strong rela­tionships with so many stu­dents and organizations who were able to express their support for our club.” 
The club, which regularly attracts 25 to 40 members at weekly meetings, has achieved several substantial goals throughout the year, including helping secure 2nd district Rep. Joe Donnelly’s and Sen. Evan Bayh’s, both Indiana democrats, votes for the national health care reform bill. 
“We made over 6,000 calls for health care reform this year,” Rhodenbaugh said. “We also wrote a letter to Congressman Donnelly and issued a press release explaining our commitment to working for candidates who vote for health care reform.” 
Rhodenbaugh also said the press release emphasized that the club holds its leaders accountable for their actions and has expectations for the leaders it worked hard to elect in 2008. 
In addition, Rhodenbaugh said winning the award out­side of an election year and on a limited budget speaks to the dedication of the club’s members. 
“It’s a real honor to win this award because it shows the commitment of our members to changing American politics and accomplishing the goals of the president we worked so hard to elect,” Rhodenbaugh said. “Political activism is an essential part of being an American citizen, and I’m proud that so many students were involved in the political process.” 
The high level of commit­ment of members of College Democrats has allowed the club to operate over 20 phone banks in cooperation with Organizing for America, co­sponsor a city-wide health care rally, maintain consis­tent weekly club program­ming and work extensively on issues such as clean energy, GLBT rights, foreign policy and labor, Rhodenbaugh said. 

“We see ourselves as a club that works hard for candi­dates and issues that has made a legitimate impact in South Bend and our country,” Rhodenbaugh said. “We also serve the purpose of getting students involved and devel­oping the future leaders of our country, regardless of whether or not students end up in politics.” 
Vasquez echoed Rhodenbaugh’s thoughts on the club’s role in the local and national political realms and the dedication of its members. 
“Our members are an enthusiastic and cohesive family and they don’t stop being College Democrats when the meeting is over,” Vasquez said. “We are espe­cially proud of our relation­ship with the South Bend community and the entire state of Indiana.” 
Rhodenbaugh also cited a commitment to social justice as the motivation for the club’s goals of reforming the political system. He said he believes that the club’s high level of activism has helped change perceptions of Notre Dame students as predomi­nantly Republican while adhering to the principles of Catholic Social Teaching. 
“Much of our activism has been rooted in a holistic interpretation of Catholic Social Teachings,” Rhodenbaugh said. “We have worked hard to open minds and challenge traditional views about religion and poli­tics on this campus, and we have had a lot of success.” 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 


SMC senior honored for community service 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s senior Lizzy Pugh tutors children, serves as a teacher’s assistant at a local pri­mary center and writes letters to grade school students through the College’s pen pal pro­gram. 
But Pugh, a religious studies and German dou­ble major, does not clock these service hours to fur­ther her major. Rather, she got involved in service to get to know the greater community. 
“I wanted to know South Bend,” Pugh said. “Service is not only an excellent way to know South Bend, but also to know not only the triumphs, but the tribu­lations the community faces. You get to get in there and be with them in solidarity, face those things and help them overcome them.” 
As a result of her efforts, Pugh won the “Patricia Arch Green Award for Outstanding Contribution to the College Academy of Tutoring Program.” 
The Office for Civil and Social Engagement (OCSE) gave the award as part of National Volunteer Week, which ran from April 19 to April 23. 
Green, for whom the award is dedicated, graduated from the College in 1961 and spent her life doing service. In 2008, Green’s husband established this award, which goes to a student in the College Academy of Tutoring (CAT) program who has done “exemplary” volunteer work. 
Colleagues of Pugh say she is one of these people. 
“[Pugh] is an example of serv­ice and dedication to others,” CAT program director Olivia Critchlow said in a press release. “She leads in a very gentle way that is far beyond her years and is a very compassionate listener to everyone she encounters. She is an asset to the College, but even more importantly, an asset to our community.” 

Pugh has clocked over 475 hours of service during her time at Saint Mary’s. At Warren Primary Center, Pugh works with children with learn­ing disabilities, such as Attention Deficit Disorder and dyslexia. She said seeing a child transform from a student who cannot stand reading into one who gets excited about it is one of the most fulfill­ing experiences. 
“They would rather be dragged through the mud on a rainy, cold day than read a book,” Pugh said. “So, my favorite thing is, even just in a few weeks, they run up to you and say, ‘Can you read with me today?’ They are just so excited about reading.” 
Pugh said she remembers one girl in particular who struggled with reading for a very long time because she was coping with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder. 
“She was reading [a chapter book], when the year before I had to pull teeth to get her to read a book,” Pugh said. “[It] was really a testament to the work of not only myself, but also the other young women who worked in those classrooms, as well as the teachers.” 
After graduation, Pugh said she hopes to continue service work, whether in the classroom or aid­ing women and children. 
In addition to her work in the local schools, Pugh has also been involved in campus ministry and OCSE events and planning. 
No matter where life takes her, volunteer work will always play a role, she said. 
“I know I want to work with kids and faith, or even just serv­ice,” Pugh said. “Service is just such a part of my life and I can’t imagine it any other way.” 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 

Leadershipawardhonors late business professor 
Senior Kristen Koch receives first annual award 
Special to The Observer 
As a faculty member at Notre Dame for more than 34 years, Management Professor Robert Vecchio was known internationally as a prolific and respected researcher who studied topics that fell into the nexus between psychology and business. Vecchio fre­quently provided an expert voice for articles on leader­ship, workplace emotion and motivation. Students relied on him for advice on manage­ment and career matters. 
Bob Vecchio tragically passed away in February 2009 as a result of injuries incurred in a fall. In his memory, the Management Department of the Mendoza College of Business announced a new commemorative award, with graduating senior Kristen Koch receiving the first Robert Vecchio Leadership Award. 
“I know Professor Vecchio made an incredible impact on the business school and the entire Notre Dame communi­ty,” said Koch, who served as the president of the Management Club at the Mendoza College of Business. “I am honored to even be remotely associated with his memory.” 
“The award is given at the discretion of the faculty to a consulting or entrepreneur­ship student who embraces the spirit of Notre Dame and has excelled in developing leadership skills,” said J. Michael Crant, professor and chair of the Management Department. “Kristie received the nomination from several faculty members.” 
Recipients of the award will receive a watch and have their names engraved on a wall plaque on display outside the Mendoza College Department of Management office. 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 27, 2010 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Members reflect on past year, look forward 

By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Council wrapped up discussions for the year Monday with closing comments on the academic environment on campus and the Council’s effectiveness as a part of student government. 
Former student body presi­dent Grant Schmidt pre ­

sented an “One of the great the Council executive sum-hold future dis-
blessings of this
mary of the cussions on the 
University that I have
previous role, impor ­weeks’ talks experienced over a tance and qual­on intellectual ity of hall gov-
period of time is that
engagement. ernment. 
people are not
“The point of “What attrac­this document cutthroat with each tion do I have is really a to join hall gov-
other.” 
transition ernment if Iam piece so the made to feel 
Fr. Jim King 
ideas that we like a gopher?” have worked rector he said. on do not get Sorin College The govern ­
lost in conver­sation between this year and next year,” for­mer chief of staff Ryan Brellenthin said. 
The summary included set­ting up an online debate forum for students to share their ideas in a blog format, keeping lecture topics general and more appealing, encour­aging more dorm events and connections between the aca­demic commissioners and tel­evising lecture and events through NDtv. 
“One of the great blessings of this University that I have experienced over a period of time is that people are not cutthroat with each other,” Sorin College rector Fr. Jim King said. 
The suggestions that the Council members will pass on to the incoming student gov­ernment focus on extracurric­ular competition that is fun for students and unique to Notre Dame, said former sen­ator Chase Riddle. 
The Council also reflected 
Housing 
continued from page 1 
units rented when [Campus Apartments] took over, ” Cohen said. “They had to be aggressive.” 
Junior Mike Delach, who originally signed with Kramer Properties, said he was indif­ferent to the management change. 
“I knew that my lease was going to be honored. They just said it was going to be the same kind of ownership. They didn’t make it seem like anything was going to change,” Delach said. 
Delach said he hopes that he will still be able to have “the college experience” and would be disappointed if Campus Apartments was stricter than Kramer Properties. 
The only complaint Delach has so far, he said, is the lack of communication between Campus Apartments and stu­dents. 
“I’m feeling pretty under-informed from Campus on other discussions from the span of the year and provided feedback for future Council members. 

“The great part of this Council is that it is not just students,” Schmidt said. 
Rectors and administrators on the council are able to check some student opinions, but also provide affirmation for others, he said. 
King said he 
hoped to see 
ment inside 
residence halls needs to be more autonomous and less directed by outside groups, King said. 
Over-programming on cam­pus has led to hall govern­ment taking the role of liaison for different agencies, and dorm events fall from the precedent, former director of external affairs Gus Gari said. 
“Hall government should be student-based and student-run rather than agency ­based,” he said. 
Former Hall Presidents Council co-chair Brendan McQueeney emphasized the need for tangible goals to bring action to student gov­ernment rather than turning meetings into lists of announcements. 
“By having these simple conversations we are really making a difference and improving the University,” Schmidt said. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 

Apartments,” he said. “[I’d like] more information. Security information would be good.” 
Donoghue said she has not yet been contacted by Campus Apartments. 
“Though we have not attempted to contact Campus Apartments, it seems strange to me that they haven’t reached out to us at all,” she said. 
Kramer said he sold the properties to reduce the num­ber of homes he owned and help improve business. 
“We like to make it have more of a personal touch,” Kramer said. “It was getting quite large. We want to be on a personal level with stu ­dents.” 
Kramer said he still has 75 student homes, as well as the Lafayette Square townhomes and other properties. 
“Business is still booming,” Kramer said. “We’re still around and we intend to be in business for a long time.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu and Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
Doyle 
continued from page 1 

University will be beneficial when he takes over as vice president for Student Affairs this summer. He will replace Fr. Mark Poorman, who has held the position for the past 11 years. 
“I don’t think God wastes anything at all. He takes all of our experiences and all of our gifts and even takes the mistakes that we make and allows us to continue to sort of use them,” Doyle said. 
As an undergraduate, Doyle lived in Grace Hall, where he was involved in interhall sports and hall government, attended Sunday liturgy and met his first Holy Cross priest. Most importantly, Doyle said, it was where he made lifelong friends. 
“I made some of the best friends of my life while I was an undergraduate and living in Grace Hall, including the roommates that I lived with,” he said. “I’m still in touch with most of them today on almost a weekly basis.” 
After graduation, Doyle worked in Seattle for a few years before returning to Notre Dame to be ordained as a priest. He then taught busi­ness ethics in the Mendoza College of Business and served as rector of Keough Hall. 
“I came brand new with the building,” he said. “Grace had shut down and Keough and O’Neil opened up, so I went to live in Keough Hall with people who had lived in the dormitory I lived in as an undergraduate. 
“One of the great advan­tages of living in a dormitory is young people, college stu­dents especially, will keep you young. You stay stimulat­ed and not just sort of cur­rent issues and current news, but you get to follow all the trends that are going on, whether it is music or video games or just culture in gen­eral.” 
Serving as a rector gave Doyle an insight into the rec­tor’s life, which he said will be helpful in his new position. 
“I think being a rector in campus ministry helped me to understand what happens in a hall and how hard a rec­tor works and what their dilemmas are and how much they care,” Doyle said. “It will help me appreciate the work they’re doing.” 
Doyle said when he returns to campus he will live in a dormitory, but he is not sure in which hall. 
“I don’t know who is mov­ing in or who is moving out,” Doyle said. “The one thing that’s really important to me is I love living in a dorm.” 
Since the announcement in November that Doyle would take over as vice president for Student Affairs, he said he has tried to listen and learn as much as possible. 
“Fr. Mark Poorman has done such a great job in Student Affairs, as well as all 

Forum 
continued from page 1 

“create a year-long discussion on the role of ethics, values and morals in the rebuilding and reshaping of the global econo­my.” 
Jenkins referenced Pope Benedict XVI’s most recent encyclical, “Caritas in Veritate,” which discusses global develop­ment and economics. 
“Pope Benedict issued a reminder [in his encyclical] that ‘the economy needs ethics in order to function correctly — not ethics whatsoever, but an ethics which is people-centered,’” Jenkins said in the statement. 
“That encyclical comes out of a long tradition of the Church’s social teaching which asks us to reflect on the moral dimensions of individual and collective eco­nomic choices, and evaluate them with regard to their contri­bution to justice and the common good.” 
The annual Forum, which was launched in 2005, was not held this past year. University spokesman Dennis Brown first told The Observer last September the Forum would be delayed until the spring semes­ter, and then administrators announced in January a schedul­the people who have worked with him. So even though this has been announced for a while, I really tried my very best to learn as much as I can about the University,” he said. 
“I’ve tried to meet as much of the staff as I can, to listen to other parts of the University, to find out parts that are going really well and to find out things that others think we can do better.” 
Doyle said he is both excit­ed and humbled to take over the position, and said he looks forward to working with fellow administrators and students. 
“I think we all deeply have the same goal and I want to find a way for us to get there,” he said. “We just real­ly need to stick with things, by each other and extend a lot of courtesy and respect and trust to one another. 
“We will try to do that in Student Affairs and we will ask that of the students and our colleagues as well.” 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
ing conflict with a major speaker caused the planned Forum to be canceled. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said Monday the topic announced for the 2010 Forum was not the one planned for the past year. 
Next fall’s Forum will be the fifth at the University. Past Forum topics have included sus­tainability, global health and immigration. 
According to the press release, the Forum topic was decided after discussion with the Dean’s Council. A working committee comprised of faculty, students and administrators will be formed and charged with plan­ning the 2010 event, the release said. 
Friedman will be one of a number of notable guests to be featured at a Notre Dame Forum. Past speakers include GE Chief Executive Officer Jeff Immelt, Colorado Gov. Bill Ritter, economist Jeffrey Sachs, Cardinal Roger Mahony of Los Angeles and others. 
Friedman is a Pulitzer prize­winning columnist and author of several bestsellers, including “The World Is Flat,” and most recently “Hot, Flat and Crowded.” As a writer and media commentator, Friedman has examined a variety of topics, including globalization and eco­nomic issues, religious funda­mentalism and terrorism and conflict in the Middle East. 
Contact Aaron Steiner at asteiner@nd.edu 

World & Nation 
Tuesday, April 27, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Judge tosses kidnapping charges 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti — A Haitian judge said Monday he has dismissed kidnapping and criminal association charges against 10 American missionaries detained for trying to take a busload of children out of the country after the Jan. 12 earthquake. 
Judge Bernard Saint-Vil said Laura Silsby, the last of the 10 missionaries jailed in Haiti, still faced a lesser charge for allegedly organ­izing the effort to transport the 33 children to an orphanage they were setting up in the Dominican Republic. 
Silsby faces up to three years in prison if convicted on the remaining charge, the “orga­nization of irregular trips,” from a 1980 statute restricting travel out of Haiti signed by then-dictator Jean-Claude Duvalier. 
Canada won’t fund abortions in plan 
HALIFAX, Nova Scotia — Canada’s Conservative government said Monday it won’t fund abortions as part of its top foreign-aid initiative at this year’s G-8 summit, a stance that U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and other allies disagree with. 
Canada has made maternal and children’s health its centerpiece issue at the G-8 summit in Huntsville, Ontario in late June. 
The stance on abortion is in disagreement with Clinton, who was adamant at a G-8 meeting last month that any international effort to boost maternal health must include family planning, including access to safe abortions. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Homeless good Samaritan left to die 
NEW YORK — The homeless man lay face down, unmoving, on the sidewalk outside an apartment building, blood from knife wounds pooling underneath his body. 
One person passed by in the early morn­ing. Then another, and another. Video footage from a surveillance camera shows at least seven people going by, some turning their heads to look, others stopping to gawk. One even lifted the homeless man’s body, exposing what appeared to be blood on the sidewalk underneath him, before walking away. 
It wasn’t until after the 31-year-old Guatemalan immigrant had been lying there for nearly an hour that emergency workers arrived, and by then, it was too late. Hugo Alfredo Tale-Yax — who police said was stabbed while intervening to help a woman being attacked — had died. 
Opponents protest immigration law 
PHOENIX — The furor over Arizona’s new law cracking down on illegal immigrants grew Monday as opponents used refried beans to smear swastikas on the state Capitol, civil rights leaders demanded a boycott of the state, and the Obama administration weighed a pos­sible legal challenge. 
Activists are planning a challenge of their own, hoping to block the law from taking effect by arguing that it encroaches on the fed­eral government’s authority to regulate immi­gration and violates people’s constitutional rights by giving police too much power. 
The measure — set to take effect in late July or early August — would make it a crime under state law to be in the U.S. illegally. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Gary receives 2010 tax relief 
GARY, Ind. — A state property tax appeals board for the second year in a row has granted the city of Gary and other taxing units in that city budget relief from new state property tax caps. 
The Indiana Distressed Unit Appeals Board on Monday granted the city of Gary, the Gary Sanitary District and the Gary Stormwater Management District most of the budget relief it sought for 2010. The action raised property tax caps for Gary property owners. 
Preliminary estimates show the 2010 property tax caps will be 1.5 percent for homeowners, 
2.65 percent for landlords and 3.79 percent for businesses. 
Girl says killer followed her home 
California sex offender murdered 17-year-old girl in nearby park later that day 
Associated Press 

EL CAJON, Calif. — An 11-year-old girl told police a man followed her home from school the day before registered sex offender John Albert Gardner III raped and murdered a 17­year-old girl in a nearby park, according to search warrants unsealed Monday. 
The documents also said two women joggers were convinced they had encoun­tered Gardner on the after­noon of Feb. 25, the day he attacked and killed Chelsea King when she went for a run in the park. 
One woman said she was convinced a man she briefly spoke with about coyotes and snakes was Gardner. 
Investigators linked Gardner to King’s murder through semen found on her underwear, according to the search warrants unsealed in response to a request by The Associated Press and other news organizations. 
King’s body was discov­ered in a shallow lakeside grave five days after she vanished. 
The warrants said author­ities seized 11 shovels, three pickaxes and other digging tools from Gardner’s home in Lake Elsinore along with a “Hard bor in 2000. her to identify the man from Another runner, Rock Cafe Baghdad” T-shirt The search warrants said among six photos. She Jacquelyn Maxton, also told and other clothing. the 11-year-old girl told San picked two of the pictures, authorities she saw 
They also found a tool Diego police on Feb. 24 that and one was Gardner, Gardner that afternoon in a case with black electrical a man in a black car slowly according to the documents. “Hard Rock Cafe Baghdad” and duct tape in a storage drove by and parked as she One of the women joggers T-shirt. unit in suburban Escondido; walked home alone from told investigators she spoke “She was 100 percent black duct tape and a fast-school in the Rancho with a man in a “Hard Rock positive the person she saw food receipt from Feb. 25 in Bernardo area. The driver Cafe” T-shirt who was on the trail was the person his girlfriend’s car; and sev-made no effort to speak drinking beer and smoking she saw on television eral “Hard Rock Cafe” with her. a cigarette when she went because his haircut and shirts and a shovel at his A woman then pulled up for an afternoon run on the eyes looked exactly the mother’s home in San beside the girl, told her the day King was attacked. same,” the affidavit reads. Diego. man looked suspicious, and After Gardner’s arrest, The affidavits also 
Gardner, 31, pleaded offered to follow her two she told authorities she was describe a Dec. 27 attack on guilty April 16 to raping blocks to her house. The positive he was the man she another jogger in the area. and murdering King and man then made a U-turn saw along the running trail. Gardner pleaded guilty to 14-year-old Amber Dubois, and drove away. “The person told her to attempted rape in that case. who was abducted while The girl told a family watch out for the snake and The jogger, Candice walking to school in member the man had she noticed there was a rat-Moncayo, reported saying Escondido in February stared at her before pulling tlesnake,” the affidavit good morning to a man who 2009. forward, and that she later reads. returned the greeting then 
Gardner had served five recognized Gardner from a The runner, identified as tackled her and began to years of a six-year prison photo published after his Cindi Jo Stock, spoke with climb on top of her, pinning sentence for molesting a 13-arrest in the death of King. the man again on her way her shoulders to the year-old San Diego neigh-Investigators then asked back. ground. 

NIGERIA 

Three journalists killed covering fighting 
Mba said gunmen on Saturday night Ogienagbon told The Associated Press. 
Associated Press 

raided the home of Edo Ugbagwu, a “We can’t say why he was killed.” 
LAGOS — Gunmen shot and killed a reporter who covered court cases for In Jos, the central Nigerian city at Nigerian journalist at his home the the daily newspaper The Nation. Mba the epicenter of recent religious vio­same day two others died while said Ugbagwu’s younger brother wit-lence, two journalists working for the attempting to cover fighting between nessed the men begin an argument Christian publication The Light Bearer Christians and Muslims in the nation’s with Ugbagwu that led to the shooting newspaper died Saturday. The Nigeria restive central highlands, authorities of the 42-year-old journalist. Union of Journalists identified them as said Monday. Mba said detectives on the case had deputy editor Nathan S. Dabak, 36, 
The outbreak of violence highlights yet to come up with a motive for the and reporter Sunday Gyang Bwede, the daily dangers confronting local slaying. Lawal Ogienagbon, a deputy 39. journalists in Africa’s most populous editor at The Nation, said Ugbagwu The union said unknown attackers nation, a country where bribery and hadn’t been working on any controver-stabbed the two men to death as they corruption prevails at all levels of gov-sial stories leading up to his death and were on their way to an assignment. ernment and some reporters temper had received no threats. Earlier that day, the body of a 13-year­their stories for fear of angering those “He worked in the courts. All you do old boy was discovered in front of a in power. is hear from both sides and whatever mosque in the city, sparking protests 
In Lagos, police spokesman Frank the judge does, you report,” and attacks. 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, April 27, 2010 
Poorman 
continued from page 1 
stories, a lot of concerns and a lot of crises,” he said. 
Poorman, who has headed the Office of Student Affairs for 11 years, announced in the fall that he will step down as vice president — a job which he said is one of the “most gratifying things” he has done as a Holy Cross priest. 
Fr. Thomas Doyle, executive vice president at the University of Portland, will replace Poorman June 30. 
“It’s time. There are some other things I want to do. I always loved teaching, and I want to return to theology and teaching,” Poorman said as the end of the year and the end of his tenure approaches. “I think it’s time for other people to assume leadership and bring ideas to student life.” 
Looking back on the past 11 years, Poorman said a con­stant challenge as an adminis­trator at Notre Dame was bal­ancing academics and Catholicism at the University. 
“We have said from the beginning that we want to 

have both true “We have said from that runs academic the beginning that we Friday and 
excellence and Saturday
want to have both true
d e e p e n nights, taking Catholic char-academic excellence students off 
acter,” he and deepen Catholic campus for the said. “We live evening.
character.” 
in a culture Student govern-that some -ment did the times wonders Fr. Mark Poorman legwork to cre­whether we vice president ate the route can do both.” and partially 
Student Affairs 

But Poorman cited a strong campus ministry program and students active in religious life as evidence that it is pos­sible to merge academics and religion. 
“I think the Catholic charac­ter pervades everything we do,” he said. 
Leading an office with a central focus on student life, Poorman said his tenure as vice president has had several focuses, namely integrating academics into campus life, overseeing construction of two new residence halls, as well as several other building proj­ects and diversity initiatives. 
Poorman led Student Affairs through the construction of Duncan and Ryan Halls, the renovation of the counseling and health care offerings in Saint Liam’s Hall and the use of Coleman-Morse Center to house Campus Ministry. 
Ryan and Duncan Halls, as well as putting into place plans for the construction of two new dorms, were impor­tant initiatives for maintain­ing the quality of life in the dorms and solving the prob­lem of overcrowding in the residence halls, Poorman said. 
“There have been lots of ini­tiatives to improve residential life over past 10 years,” he said. “We want to un-crowd current residence halls to meet a national standard for with stronger needs,” he said. “That’s been with us, and we are constantly are strategizing about how to address it.” 

During Poorman’s time in Student Affairs, the Office also created the Gender Relations Center and restructured the Core Council for Gay and Lesbian students. 
“In the course of past decade, we have worked real­ly hard to create and sustain a welcoming and inclusive envi­ronment for all students, including gay and lesbian stu­dents,” he said. “I think we have some terrific support for gay and lesbian students, like Coffee in CoMo and StaND Against Hate Week. I’m very proud of what been able to do in last decade.” 
But he said the accomplish­ments of the Office in the past 11 years are a credit to a large staff. 
“My colleagues in Student Affairs are shining examples of the superb educational and pastoral leadership that char­acterizes Notre Dame’s stu­dent life, and I owe them and others an enormous debt of gratitude for all that we have achieved together,” he said. 
Recently, Poorman helped student government estab­
lished a new 
Transpo route 
funded it, along 
with Student Affairs. 
“I think at the beginning, we wondered whether the rider­ship would be strong, but after first couple weekends realized students would actu­ally use service,” Poorman said of helping push through the Transpo initiative. “Our primary concern was the safe­ty and welfare of students, and I think the service has been a great step forward.” 
Former student body presi­dent Grant Schmidt, who worked with Poorman on the Transpo initiative, said the priest makes students his first priority. 
“What’s so incredible is that despite his challenging responsibilities, he fulfills them with such a great approach — an approach that constantly keeps students as the focus,” Schmidt said. “And because of that, students flock to him.” 
Poorman said forming rela­tionships with students is cen­tral to his vocation as a Holy Cross priest. 
“I live with students, I teach students, I pray with students, I oversee the quality of their lives as an administrator,” he said. “I’m very blessed in that all that contact gives me great access to students and vice versa.” 
In the fall, Poorman will take an academic leave to 
Strike 
continued from page 1 

holding up signs. With a total involvement of about 30 stu­dents staying at least part of the time, the strike conclud­ed Friday afternoon with Mass in front of the main steps. 
Thirteen of the 30 students engaged in the hunger strike the whole week. 
“I think that after this week … we are more committed than ever,” junior Liz Furman said. “Our work is complete when our University upholds the morals and values that it says it upholds on its mission statement.” 
As the latest chapter in a debate that has stretched on for years, the hunger strike aimed at Notre Dame’s con­tinued investment in HEI, a firm that develops many of the country’s most well-known hotels. 
Students called for the University to withdraw its investment with HEI due to allegations that the company practiced unethical tactics in preventing workers from unionizing. 
The University said this week, however, that it has considered these allegations and found them to be unsub­stantiated. 
“In accord with Notre Dame’s longstanding social investment policy, the University has investigated and closely monitored recent and ongoing claims made about HEI’s labor practices,” University spokesman Dennis Brown said in a written statement. 
Brown said Notre Dame remains convinced that HEI engages in fair labor prac­tices and is an “outstanding company.” 
Sophomore Roman Sanchez said the students did not receive a response from the University since their hunger strike. 
“We sent letters everyday to the President’s Office,” he said. “But [we’ve heard] nothing from an official University spokesman.” 
He did say, however, that they have been in communi­cation with Chief Investment Officer Scott Malpass, who offered to provide more information about HEI in the future. 
Malpass was not available for comment. 
Following the conclusion of the hunger strike, Sanchez said he is excited for the future. 
“I’m excited to see where we’ll go. I really believe in what we’re doing, and I believe that what we’re doing is all in the message of Christ,” he said. 
Sanchez said his complaints were not part of any personal battle with the University, so much as making sure it was being accountable to Christian message. 
Furman said she was encouraged by the support of the community and strangers alike throughout the week. 
“We received a letter from a clergy group called CLUE (Clergy and Laity Uniting for Economic Justice),” she said. “It was a third party support for us, our hunger strike and the HEI workers.” 
One of the biggest success­es of the strike was the mere fact that they managed to raise awareness, Furman said. 
“Just having come out of the hunger strike, and now that there is more awareness of the issue, our campaign is not over,” she said. “[Our] campaign will not end just because the school year ends.” 
Although no immediate next step has been decided, Sanchez said the students will likely continue their efforts and pick up where they leave off up in the fall. 
Contact Tony Rivera at 
rrivera3@nd.edu 

personal space, study space serve as a visiting scholar at and social space.” Santa Clara University in 
Poorman said the renova-California before returning to tion of Saint Liam’s Hall was Notre Dame to rejoin the the-part of a push to address stu-ology faculty full time. He said dent health concerns like he will possibly teach a class alcohol abuse and mental in the spring. health issues. “I feel so blessed and grate­
“I think we have a lot more ful,” he said of the past 11 students with serious issues years. “My basic sense is just like depression and anxiety. tremendous gratitude.” We’ve done some soul search­ing about the appropriate Contact Madeline Buckley at level of service for students mbuckley@nd.edu 
The Observer 

Business
Tuesday, April 27, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Lawmakers mull raising licence fee 
OKLAHOMA CITY — Oklahoma lawmakers said Monday they are considering raising the cost of renewing a driver’s license by $8.50, as well as several other fee increases, as they grapple with an estimated $1.2 billion budget shortfall. 
Department of Public Safety Commissioner Kevin Ward told a joint House and Senate budget panel that more than a dozen proposed fee hikes or new fees would generate an esti­mated $32.8 million for the cash-strapped agency. 
The legislative committee, which asked sev­eral public safety agencies to present scenar­ios for budget cuts ranging from 7.5 percent to 
12.5 percent, also heard from the director of the state’s prison system, who warned that deeper budget cuts could lead to a major cri­sis. 
Further cuts would mean cutting even more employees that watch over a growing number of inmates, Department of Corrections director Justin Jones said, raising “just one new red flag after another that in my business is indicative that you’re heading for a train wreck.” 
Northrop Grumman to move to Virginia 
RICHMOND, Va. — Defense contractor Northrop Grumman Corp. will move its head­quarters cross country to the Virginia sub­urbs of Washington, D.C., to be closer to its key customers in the U.S. government, offi­cials said Monday. 
Maryland Gov. Martin O’Malley congratu­lated northern Virginia for winning an intense sweepstakes between the two states for the corporate control center. Virginia Gov. Bob McDonnell planned to announce the relocation on Tuesday in Arlington. 
The company announced in January that it wanted to move from Los Angeles to the Washington area by 2011. A spokesman did not immediately return calls and an e-mail Monday seeking comment on the company’s choice. 
Northrop Grumman CEO Wesley G. Bush told O’Malley on Monday that the company decided to move to one of two sites in Virginia, O’Malley spokesman Rick Abbruzzese said. 
FundraisingsparesHollywoodsign 
Donation by Playboy founder Hugh Hefner caps drive for land conservation pact 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES — The Hollywood sign, a beacon to stars and star-struck alike, has been saved from urban sprawl under a land conservation pact announced Monday after a donation by Playboy founder Hugh Hefner capped a multimillion­dollar fundraising drive. 
“It’s a symbol of dreams and a symbol of opportu­nity and hope,” actor-turned Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger said at a news conference below the towering letters. “The Hollywood sign will wel­come dreamers, artists and Austrian body­builders for generations to come.” 
The huge sign overlook­ing the city was in danger of having its distinctive setting on the flanks of the Santa Monica Mountains crowded by construction of estate homes on nearby Cahuenga Peak. 
But a $900,000 dona­tion from Hefner, who helped save the sign itself 32 years ago, and a $500,000 matching grant completed a $12.5 million fundraising drive to pro­tect 138 acres from devel-Schwarzenegger said Fox River Financial It continued to decay even opment that would have private donations came Resources Inc. after the city made it a altered the globally recog-from all 50 states, 10 for-It was put on the mar-cultural monument in nized symbol of the eign countries, The ket again two years ago 1973. world’s film and television Tiffany & Co. and a num-for $22 million, but The Hefner came to the res-capital. ber of individuals, includ-Trust for Public Land cue in 1978 by organizing 
“My childhood dreams ing J. Paul Getty heir negotiated a lower price. a fundraiser that enabled and fantasies came from Aileen Getty, Steven Ironically, the sign was a complete rebuilding of the movies, and the Spielberg and Tom Hanks. originally erected in 1923 the sign, which had to images created in Cahuenga Peak, just to promote a real estate vanish from the skyline Hollywood had a major west of the sign’s location development, with its 30-for several months. influence on my life and on Mount Lee, features a foot-by-50-foot letters Wildlife Conservation Playboy,” Hefner said. 360-degree panorama of spelling “Hollywoodland.” Board executive director 
Schwarzenegger praised Los Angeles and the San But as Hollywood was John Donnelly said the the public and private Fernando Valley. entering its golden age, permanent protection of partnership that raised Moviemaker and avia-the sign already symbol-Cahuenga Peak is a signif­the money to keep the tion mogul Howard ized the allure of star-icant addition to the city’s property out of the hands Hughes bought the prop-dom. In the 1930s a 4,210-acre Griffith Park of developers. erty in 1940 to build a young, struggling actress and will enhance wildlife 
The Trust for Public home for then-girlfriend climbed the sign and corridors throughout the Land conservation group Ginger Rogers. But that leaped to her death. region. raised $6.7 million in pri-never came about, and By the late 1940s the “Today, we have the vate funds, the state the Hughes estate sold the sign was falling apart and Hollywood ending we offered $3.1 million, and property in 2002 for $1.7 the “land” portion was hoped for,” said William local funds totaled $2.7 million to the Chicago-removed, giving it the B. Rogers, president of million. based investment group appearance known today. The Trust for Public Land. 

Moguls pledge cash to newspaper bid 
Associated Press aside. after a final pre-auction bankruptcy 
The local group now includes the hearing Monday. “It’s shocking.” 
PHILADELPHIA — Business moguls Perelmans, chemical company heir The other two bidders included Raymond and Ronald Perelman have David Haas and several current plans to try to negotiate contracts pledged last-minute cash to join local investors, including home builder with the roughly 4,000 unionized investors trying to keep Philadelphia’s Bruce Toll. They will compete with workers, the company said. However, two largest newspapers away from the creditors group and a third bid-Chief U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Stephen creditors at a bankruptcy auction der, the Canadian investment firm Raslavich noted that none of the bids scheduled for Tuesday. Stern Partners, at the closed-door come with any employment guaran-
The father and son replaced auction for Philadelphia Newspapers. tees. California billionaire Ron Burkle in Terms of the three bids were not Toll, Tierney and other investors shoring up the local bid for the com-disclosed. bought Philadelphia Newspapers in pany that owns The Philadelphia However, Publisher Brian Tierney 2006 for $515 million, only to see its Inquirer and Philadelphia Daily said the creditors’ bid calls for firing value slide amid the industrywide News. all of the company’s 4,500 employees, falloff in revenue. Tierney himself has 
Burkle, a major donor to with a pledge only to rehire at least had to layoff staff, and the company Democratic causes, had agreed at the 51 percent on new terms. now has about 500 fewer employees, urging of Pennsylvania Gov. Ed “So, up to 2,250 people could lose he said Monday. Rendell last week to aid the local bid their jobs, and even those that retain The company’s current value could rather than mount his own bid for the their jobs could have very different be less than $100 million, company newspapers. But he will now step (salaries and benefits),” Tierney said executives and creditors have said. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesday, April 27, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
The slippery path to a police state 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 

SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4324 lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnewseditor.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 pcoveney@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Sarah Mervosh Meaghan Veselik Sam Stryker Chris Allen Graphics Andrew Owens Brandon Keelean Scene Viewpoint Adriana Pratt Lauren Brauweiler 
The issue of illegal immigration reform had taken a backseat for the Obama administration and Congress since 2008, with health care and finan­cial reform deemed as more important priorities to resolve first. But Anthony now the issue Matthew appears to be Durkin moving back into 
A Confederacy
the limelight after the state of 
of Dunces 

Arizona signed into law an extremely controversial immigration law last Friday. 
The new law in Arizona makes the failure to carry immigration docu­ments a state crime, and gives police the ability to detain people they rea­sonably suspect of being an illegal immigrant “when practicable.” The law also allows citizens to sue their respective cities if they feel the law is not being enforced properly. Illegal immigration is already a federal crime, but this bill allows police to charge illegal immigrants without official immigration papers with a separate state misdemeanor and hand them over to federal officials to be deported. Gov. Jan Brewer, who apparently remained silent on the issue until hours before signing the bill into law, stated that the new law “represents another tool for our state to use as we work to solve a crisis we did not create and the federal government has refused to fix.” 
The law is a serious step backward in the battle to reform immigration policy and is certainly one that will be fought in the federal courts for its inherent demonization of Hispanic-Americans. Arizona has a majority white population, with close to 30 per­cent being Hispanic. Although Gov. Brewer acknowledged the criticisms that this bill could lead to racial profil­ing of Hispanics, she assured the peo­ple that Arizona will properly train its law enforcement to carry out the law, and that ultimately, “we have to trust our law enforcement.” Frightening 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
OBSERVER POLL 
What are your plans for the summer? 
Service trip Internship Hanging with family and friends at home Going abroad Haven’t decided yet/Other 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
words to say the least, and the hints of an increasing tendency towards a police state should concern everyone. It is utterly ridiculous to suggest that ethnic and racial profiling of Hispanics will not be the most significant byprod­uct of this law given the demographics of Arizona and the increasing emotion­al rhetoric being placed upon the immigration question. Arizona cur­rently has an estimated half of million illegal immigrants present in its bor­ders now, and the hunt for this huge population would seriously detract from the basic rights of fellow Hispanic citizens living legally in the state. 
The law was under enormous criti­cism nationally before it was even enacted. President Obama commented on the legislation at a naturalization ceremony in the Rose Garden of the White House stating that the bill threatened “to undermine basic notions of fairness that we cherish as Americans, as well as the trust between police and our communities that is so crucial to keeping us safe.” As has been noted in the press reports of the president’s speech, it is extreme­ly rare for a president to comment on state laws, and Obama made the point that a federal overhaul of the nation’s immigration policy was necessary to avoid the “irresponsibility by others.” The Mexican Foreign Ministry stated formally it was worried about the rights of its citizens. The law has even divided those in the law enforcement community, with groups such as a the Arizona Association of Chiefs of Police coming out against the law, while oth­ers such as the Phoenix Law Enforcement Association promoting the law. But its harshest rebuke came courageously from Archbishop Roger Mahoney of Los Angeles. As leader of the nation’s largest and mostly Hispanic Catholic archdiocese, he con­demned the law as a “mean-spirited and useless anti-immigrant law,” and remarked poignantly that America was “now reverting to German Nazi and Russian Communist techniques.” 

Finally, thousands of protesters stood outside the capital in Phoenix Friday in defiance of the bill. 
What is even more disgusting is the once anti-demagogue Sen. John McCain supporting the Arizona legisla­tion in his own state since he, like Gov. Brewer, is locked in a heated primary within his own party. McCain, bowing to pressure from hard-line conserva­tives, reversed his 2007 position that “we need to come up with a humane, moral way to deal with those people who are here, most of whom are not going anywhere,” adding that no mat­ter how much we improve border security, “we will not find most of them, and we will not find most of their employers.” How times change. 
While the Arizona law most certainly will be challenged in federal courts and hopefully overturned, it is a wake up call to Washington that immigration reform needs to be brought back into the mix. It cannot be left up to states to enact laws that discriminate against populations and threaten the ideals of America, not unlike many of the meas­ures that were taken out of fear to root out suspected terrorists. 
Comprehensive reform will be diffi­cult to achieve anytime soon with financial reform on the current agenda and a Supreme Court confirmation expected to take up a portion of the summer. But if Congress does not act quicker to address the issue, more leg­islation that espouses ethnic and racial profiling will appear. Congress needs to figure out how to address the issue through other means that do not evoke fear and hate, and invite lawless and abusive police power, or else these deplorable police state techniques will continue to surface elsewhere. 
Anthony Matthew Durkin is a senior living off campus and double majoring in political science and history. He can be reached at adurkin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The enthusiasm of a woman’s love is even beyond the biographer’s.” 
Jane Austen British novelist 


The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, April 27, 2010 page 9 
Three principles of family friendliness 
In the midst of recent discussion on the Family Friendly Petition currently hosted on these sites: 
uhttps://sites.google.com/a/nd.edu/fa milyfriendlypetition/ (for students) 
uhttps://sites .google.com/a/ 

Richard Klee
nd.edu/notre­dame-family-

Guest Columnist 
petition/ (for non-students), 

I would like to clarify a few of the principles behind the petition’s compo­sition and their relevance for Notre Dame. 
Health care is a human right 

Many Notre Dame student spouses and international students’ children are uninsured. In a 2004 statement, the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops noted that “people who lack health insurance are far less likely to receive basic health care serv­ices … They may delay seeking needed medical care … or have trouble paying medical bills while meeting other essential needs such as food, housing and utilities. The uninsured receive less preventive care, are diagnosed at more advanced disease stages, and once diagnosed, tend to receive less care … The Institute of Medicine esti­mates that 18,000 Americans die unnecessarily each year due to the lack of health insurance coverage.” 
This letter describes the dangers that face the uninsured as well as the rea­sons why Catholics promote adequate health care access as a human right. Lack of health care threatens every stage of human life from the womb to adulthood. Such risks are faced now by many uninsured student spouses and international student children. This petition calls on Notre Dame to authen­ticate its Catholic identity and improve the poor health care access of student families. In doing so it can join the Catholic institutions without hospitals that provide affordable coverage to stu­dent spouses, from The Catholic University of America and Dayton to Ave Maria and the University of Dallas, as well as private schools like Princeton and Texas Christian. The petition also recommends dependent insurance subsidies for international families whose children do not qualify for state-provided health care. Rather than the imposing $70 million cost of an endowed fund that would provide such support in perpetuity, this petition asks for a 3.5-year commitment from Notre Dame to subsidize coverage to a level affordable to student families until health care reform provisions begin on Jan. 1, 2014. 
Female students with children merit targeted support 
Several large scale studies demon­strate the substantially lower advanced degree completion rates of female graduate students with children as compared to males with children and single men and women. This condition worsens as graduate programs length­en and expenses for prerequisite bach­elor and master’s degrees increase. Many female students are unable to justify the expense and duration of advanced study in view of family con­cerns while others opt to delay or even forgo children in order to persevere through a six-to 10-year-long graduate track. In order to promote gender equi­ty in outcomes, many peer institutions such as Duke, University of Southern California, Cornell, Yale, Stanford, Berkeley, Princeton, Brown and others provide student maternity leave with additional funding, longer duration, and automatic milestone extensions, in contrast to Notre Dame. Some of these schools also provide part-time enroll­ment options and paternity leave, in part so women are not mandated the sole or primary caregivers. 
A Catholic university has a wealth of reasons to support such efforts in even greater degree so as to encourage the participation of students with families in advanced study. In Catholic theology, institutions should act from conviction that the family is the foundation of society. This is not only because of the life-giving power of procreation. Families are donors via the endowment of education, humanity and love pro­vided to their members, upon which society depends and universities in particular draw. Proper university sup­port of student family life acknowl­edges that the relationship between family life and academic work is honest only when the requirements of each are respected. It further promotes the cultural change that must occur in aca­demia to ensure that the welcome of a child is not considered a threat to career prospects for students or junior faculty. 
Financial support should match com­petitors and need 
Many peer institutions offer dedicat­ed funds for student families. Such sup­ports vary in form, with examples such as the low-income family grants of up to $8,000 after childbirth at Berkeley, to emergency family expense grants and pre-tax health and child care accounts at Michigan, to direct subsi­dies for child care from infancy at many private and public universities. Such supports provide a more level field for low-income student families, a group that particularly includes minor­ity and international students. At Notre Dame, University-supported child care is not provided until age 2 and requires joining a long waiting list. Stipends are typically raised in response only to competition with peer university stipend offers and are not adjusted in view of family need. There are, howev­er, a few departments at Notre Dame who make generous accommodations for students following childbirth that include financial considerations. This petition recommends that Notre Dame offer child care subsidies directly to student families from infancy and pro­vide departments and schools with dis­cretionary funds to meet financial needs as low-income student families begin or grow. Addressing these con­crete financial needs has warrant not only by a comparative look at peer uni­versity practices but also and especial­ly by Catholic Social Doctrine and its insistence that the basic requirements of the family be provided for economic arrangements. 
Implementation 
This petition is addressed to the fel­lows, trustees and officers of the University, who must ultimately consid­er the ethical questions raised by the current situation of graduate families as well as the better practices of peer universities regarding families. They will decide whether to improve condi­tions at Notre Dame. In addition, due to the leadership of Deans Sterling and Turpin and that of the members of the following commissions, there are rec­ommendations from the Graduate School and the University Committee on Women Faculty and Students due soon on some of the conditions described above. We hope the stewards of the University will consider the benchmarks of other schools and the unique contribution that a Catholic uni­versity seeking to educate the heart and the mind can make. We further hope individual departments and stu­dents will provoke conversations regarding the place of families within their programs in order to create bet­ter conditions for students and faculty considering or already involved with family life. 
Richard Klee is a Notre Dame staff member and one of the authors of the fam­ily-friendly petition. He can be reached at rklee2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR Finishing next to the 50 
Before the race started I thought, “Wow I’ll run out of the tunnel just like the football players and cheerleaders onto the field and sprint all the way to the 50 yard line.” Of course there wouldn’t be the 80,000 person crowd cheering me on, but I would have the satisfaction of actually having been on the field sometime during my time here at Notre Dame. 
The Leprechaun started off the race and sent us on our way throughout the campus course. How disappointed I was while running toward the Stadium at the end of the race and descending down the tunnel’s path to see men in yellow jackets and yellow caution tape. The men said, “Keep to the right,” and the runners were directed to run around the out­side of the field. I finished next to the 50 yard line — not on it — and nowhere close to the center of the field. 
For a race that is called “Finish on the 50,” I think the runners should be able to actually run out onto the field. It’s false advertising to tell someone that they are going to be able to do something but in reality you never had any inten­tion of letting them. I don’t really see how a group of run­ners in tennis shoes could do any harm to the Stadium’s field anyway. 
Next year’s runners should be allowed to run out onto the football field and be proud of being a part of this Notre Dame community. We should all be able to take in for just one moment that amazing feeling of being on Notre Dame’s football field. Life is too short to place restrictions on trivial matters of who can be on the field because “runners will tear up the grass.” 
So next time let us finish on the 50! 
Alexandra Moulton 
freshman Walsh Hall April 26 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The Observer 
Scene
page 10 Tuesday, April 27, 2010 

By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Portland-based indie folk band Horse Feathers is one of those bands you really should know. They stopped in South Bend Friday to play a concert at Subkirke, the South Bend Christian Reformed Church’s concert venue, for a small but enthusiastic audience. They are currently on tour promoting their newest album, “Thistled Spring.” 
Perhaps most comparable to a band like Iron & Wine, Horse Feathers spe­cializes in that type of melodic indie rock that seems most appropriate for listen­ing to in a serene meadow. They use gui­tars, pianos and drums just like every­one else, but also feature a cello, some violins, banjos and even a saw. 
Subkirke is a small venue, located inside the church. The band played by the altar, but the sound quality was great and the setting was incredibly inti­mate. It was perfect for both Horse Feathers and their impressive opening act Caroline Smith and The Good Night Sleeps. 
Caroline Smith, a singer and song­writer from Minnesota, came only with her band’s bassist, but put on a really great show. She sounds like a mix between Joanna Newsom and Florence of Florence + The Machine. The duo’s live set was excellent. Their harmonies were tight and they played a broad range of songs, including a Joanna Newsom cover, which showed an impressively talented young band. 


Horse Feathers played a great set, fea­turing both songs old and new. They are of that impressive breed of bands that truly sounds so much better live than on record. That is because, aside from being incredibly talented musicians, the passion in their music is palpable in per­son. Lead singer/guitarist Justin Ringle is mesmerizing, but backing members Sam Cooper, Nathan Crockett and Catherine Odell take his emotional guitar tunes to the next level, always adding new layers to their songs, each playing several instruments in any given song. Highlights from the set include old songs “Curs in the Weeds,” “Falling Through the Roof” and “Finch on Saturday,” and new songs from “Thistled Spring,” “Belly of June” and “Cascades.” 
“Thistled Spring,” though similar in tone to previous Horse Feathers albums, feels different nonetheless, probably due to the fact that it is the first album recorded by the current foursome of Horse Feathers. Though Justin Ringle has been with Horse Feathers from the start, other band members have come and gone, with Ringle, Cooper, Crockett and Odell as its current incarnation. If anything, “Thistled Spring” feels more ambitious than past albums. That is not to say it’s better, but there is a growth and maturity in the sound of the band. 



The album opens with its title song “Thistled Spring.” It is a beautiful, sweeping piece that really displays the sound of the violin and cello. A great start to a great album. 
“Starving Robins” immediately changes the tone of the album, focusing more on the guitar, banjo and drums and picking up the pace of the album. “Belly of June” is the lead single from “Thistled Spring,” and it picks up well where “Starving Robins” left off. It’s another great upbeat tune, perfect for summer listening at the beach. 
“Cascades” takes the pace back again as a beautiful ballad featuring a saw. “The Drought” has some kind of Spanish inspired mandolin going on and is a nice change of pace from the typical Horse Feathers sound. “The Widower” is more of the band’s typical slow ballad, but it is easily one of the most beautiful songs on the album. “Thistled Spring” closes much the same way that it opened, with the slow melodic song “Heaven’s No Place.” It is one of the best examples of Ringle’s great vocals and features all that is best about Horse Feathers, incor­porating several different instruments and changing throughout. 
“Thistled Spring” is a great album by a small indie band that will hopefully start to get more attention and recognition for their talents. There seems to be more in “Thistled Spring” that will appeal to a broader audience, so hopefully this is 
By DECLAN SULLIVAN 
Scene Writer 

Before I really dig into Tunng album “…And Then We Saw Land,” just one warning: This is not a style of music that the majority of people will like. 
Tunng is a very odd combination of folk music and electronic music that, while some people will think is crazy and ridiculous and awesome, most people will not want to listen to. Think of MGMT, but more folk, less electronica and a lot less druggy and messed up. 
If this sounds like something you might be interested in, keep reading. If not, please stop and go away. 
I’ve never really listened to a style of music quite like this before, and although it took a few album play-throughs, I find that I kind of, sort of like it. Tunng man­ages to take two genres that I would have never associated with each other — folk and electronic — and meld them in an odd, strange way that still somehow works. 
The first single from “…And Then We Saw Land,” “Hustle,” is a great example of this. It starts out distorted, but then sud­denly transitions into what sounds like a pretty standard folk song, no electronic treatment. It stays in this vein for a while, but then gradually electronic elements are added back in, until finally by the end, these elements overtake the folksy ones. 
The rest of the album is a similar mix of electronic and folk. Some songs are mostly the band’s chance to really make their presence known. It is also perfect music for a long night of studying for finals or for a calm summer day at the beach. 
Although the album, and really any other Horse Feathers CD, is definitely worth picking up, if the opportunity to see them perform live ever presents itself, take it. Their awesome album can­not do their live performance justice. 

Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
folk, some are mostly electronic and some are a pretty even mix of both. 
Even after listening through the whole thing multiple times, I still can’t exactly describe what I like about it. I really like “Hustle,” but after that the album just blends together, flowing from electronic to folk and processed to wholly natural music. 
The best way to describe it is by compar­ing it to dipping French fries in a milk­shake: It sounds disgusting, but God help me if you try and don’t think it is the most divine combination since celery and peanut butter. You can’t really explain why it’s so good, but it is, so you just enjoy it and try not read too deeply into it. That is what Tunng and “…And Then We Saw Land” is: If you like it, you like it, if you don’t, you don’t. If your interested, give it a listen and if your not, well, I told you to go away about two paragraphs ago. 

BRANDON KEELEAN l Observer Graphic 

The Observer 
Scene
Tuesday, April 27, 2010 page 11 
‘Robin Hood’ It is impressive how closely they are 
By MATT BROWN 

One of my favorites that is often for-able to follow Dickens’ story while 
Scene Writer 

gotten in the discussion of classics. Re-using talking cats and dogs. 
As the school year draws to a close watch this in anticipation of Gladiator P.S. Dodger is the coolest dog ever. and we face a stark example of the part II: Robin Hood. The fox and bear Notable Tracks: “Why Should I inexorable march of time, there is no combination of Robin Hood and Little Worry” better way to celebrate our fleeting John running through the forest dup­childhood than with a study break ing the childish King John is pure joy. ‘AristoCats’ movie. Many may choose to stop at Notable Tracks: “Oo-de-lally” Another oft-forgotten movie but 10 when creating such lists, but I have has what may be the catchiest gone the extra mile for you, reader, ‘Cinderella’ Disney song of all time … and now proudly present the top 12 I have two words for you: the mice. “Everybody Wants to Be a Cat.” Scat Disney Animated Classics in no partic-Notable Tracks: “The Work Song,” Cat and the rest of the gang lay ular order. “Bibbidi-Bobbidi-Boo” down a sweet sound that really 
brings down the house. ‘Hercules’ ‘Aladdin’ Notable Tracks: “Everybody 
OrIthinkyoumeanHUNK-ules. My ThebestDisneymovie. Wants to Be a Cat,” “Thomas buddy Wags mentioned it to me and Notable Tracks: All O’Malley Cat” there is no way Hercules did not make the list. Program of Liberal Studies ‘Lion King’ ‘Emperor’s New Groove’ and Classics majors beware … The There is little that needs to be said An absolutely hilarious movie Hydra’s death is not historically accu-about a movie that gives you a with fantastic characters and count-rate. Who doesn’t love watching a chance to yell at the top of your lungs less quotable lines. David Spade was wickedly strong demi-god run every time you see the sun rise and the perfect voice for Kuzco, and for around and laugh at the misfortunes then hits you with life lessons less all you trivia buffs out there, this of Pain and Panic. The soul-inspired than a minute later. After all there is was Goodman’s first Disney animat­soundtrack is a complete joy to listen more to see than can ever be seen, ed movie before being involved in to. more to do than can ever be done. what seems like every movie since. 
Notable Tracks: “Go the Distance,” Notable Tracks: All but “Can You Kronk may be the best character of “Zero to Hero” Feel the Love Tonight” the lot with his love for spinach puffs, daring theme songs and the 
‘Princess and the Frog’ ‘Mulan’ woodland scouts. 
Disney’s goal of recreating the clas-The most hard core of all Disney Notable Tracks: Doesn’t need sic style of old went off without a princesses, never have I wanted great songs, in a stretch “Girl from hitch in this fantastic film. Finally more to be a petite Asian woman in Ipanema” getting around to Cajun and Zydeco-feudal Chinese society faced by an themed music and celebrating the impending Hun attack than while ‘Little Mermaid’ rich culture of the south helped watching this movie. Sebastian is one of the greatest Disney deliver a movie that has Notable Tracks: “I’ll Make a Man sidekicks in all of Disney movies and joined the ranks of their best. Out of You,” “A Girl Worth Fighting certainly has one of the best singing 
Notable Tracks: “Friends on the For” voices. Scuttle’s knowledge of Other Side,” “Down in New Orleans,” human culture is profound and “When I’m Human” ‘Oliver and Company’ Triton may be the only father figure 
In this remake of the Oliver story, that survives an animated movie. ‘Snow White’ Oliver is a cat and the Artful Dodger Definitely one of the classics. 
You’ve got to pay your respects to is a dog owned by the unscrupulous Notable Tracks: “Under the Sea,” the one that started them all … the Fagin. Lost on the hard streets of “Kiss the Girl,” “Part of Your World” first full length animated feature film. New York City, Oliver is shown how 
Notable Tracks: “Heigh-Ho!,” “I’m to survive by Dodger before eventu-Contact Matt Brown at Wishing” ally being taken into a wealthy home. mbrown14@nd.edu 

By ANKUR CHAWLA 
Scene Writer 
With classes done for the semester, head over to the Cinemark 14 Thursday at 8 
p.m for a free prescreening of Universal Pictures’ “Get Him to the Greek.” 
Jonah Hill (“Superbad”) and Russell Brand (“Forgetting Sarah Marshall”) star in this sum­mer comedy. Set to release in June, “Get Him to the Greek” looks like it will be one of the biggest block­busters and funniest come­dies of the year. 
In the movie, Hill plays Aaron Green, an intern at a record company hired to accompany the extravagant British rock star named Aldous Snow, played by Brand. For those of you who saw “Forgetting Sarah Marshall,” Aldous Snow’s character is carried over from that movie, and if you remember his mantra — he is walking sex. 
Aaron is given the career-making task of escorting Aldous to a concert at L.A.’s Greek Theatre. The British rocker is constantly sidetracked searching for the meaning of life. When he discovers his true love is in California, he devotes his time to getting her instead of the upcoming concert. 
Aaron has to make his way through Vegas lap dances, London drug lords and New York City parties trying to get Aldous to the Greek Theatre. 
Tickets are available at 119 Dillon Hall and at vari­ous campus giveaways. 
This movie is sure to be a hit, and if you liked “Forgetting Sarah Marshall,” you are going to love “Get Him to the Greek.” 
Contact Ankur Chawla at achawla@nd.edu 

BRANDON KEELEAN l Observer Graphic 
page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, April 27, 2010 
NBA 

Nuggets unravel as Jazz take control of series 
Associated Press 
DENVER — The flustered Denver Nuggets are tweeting and teetering. 
After losing at Utah to fall behind 3-1 to the short-handed Jazz in a playoff series they were heavily favored to win, All-Star Carmelo Anthony expressed frustration that he wasn’t getting more help and 
J.R. Smith suggested some players were hogging the ball. 
Tweeted Smith: “You play selfish you lose selfish that’s all I’m saying about the game,” which the Nuggets lost 117-106 after committing 18 turnovers to go with just 13 assists. 
Chauncey Billups said Monday that he doesn’t see the team unraveling as it sits on the brink of elimination. He suggested the Nuggets aren’t a high-volume assist team like the Jazz are because they play a different style. 
The Nuggets, however, are clearly a troubled group that two months ago was being touted as the team most capa­ble of unseating the Los Angeles Lakers as the top dog in the West. 
Then came coach George Karl’s throat cancer diagnosis and the Nuggets haven’t been the same since. 
They’ve gone 12-11 under acting coach Adrian Dantley after posting a 42-21 mark under Karl, who underwent three dozen radiation treat­ments that have left him weak and weary. 
Dantley said he doesn’t think he’s losing his team or that there’s fissures that aren’t fix­able. He said losses bring out negative comments but “if we win Wednesday, we’ll feel a lot better.” 

They’ll have to win that game to maintain hopes of becoming just the ninth team to over­come a 3-1 deficit and the first one to do it since 2006. 
Anthony avoided reporters Monday by slipping out a side door, but after scoring 39 points Sunday night and watching none of his team­mates chip in more than 14, he said he was exasperated to lose three straight to a team that’s missing starters Andrei Kirilenko (strained calf) and Mehmet Okur (ruptured Achilles’ tendon). 
“I’m trying to do everything I can in my power to beat the Jazz, but at the end of the day I need some help,” Anthony said. “I’m not sitting here pointing fingers at anybody, but as a unit we’ve got to do it together. I can’t do it by myself.” 
The Nuggets were first-round fodder in Anthony’s first five NBA seasons before reaching the Western Conference cham­pionship a year ago. 
‘Melo thought first-round flops were a thing of the past. 
Smith tweeted his frustra­tions after shooting 3-for-11 from the floor for 10 points to go with his pair of assists, but nobody seemed to know who he was griping about. 
“Well, I don’t know who was selfish,” Dantley said. “A lot of times it looks like that when you take shots and you miss when it’s the same type of shots you took the first game that we made. But when you lose you feel bad, you say some funny things, say negative things. But the main thing I told the guys (was) just stay together, just win Wednesday.” 
Some in the organization thought it was ironic that Smith, known for firing up 3­pointers in blowouts or putting up long shots before his team­mates can get upcourt to run a play, would level charges of selfishness. 
Anthony also voiced his frus­tration during the game when he got on Chris Andersen for a bad shot. 
Despite all the angst, Billups said the Nuggets aren’t falling apart. 
“I’m not really seeing it, man. It’s frustrating to lose. People can really say what they want, but at any rate, when we win, we win together,” Billups said. 
And he said getting just 25 assists to Utah’s 51 in the two games at Salt Lake City doesn’t mean the Nuggets are selfish, either. 
“I think that the style that we play is not a high-assist volume team. Utah, the style that they play, they’re going to move it around every time down. They’re going to have 25, 30 assists, most nights. That’s the system they have in place,” Billups said. 
Dantley said the Nuggets just need to pick their heads up for Tuesday’s practice and win Game 5 at home no matter how many assists they get. 
“If we win, we’ll feel a lot better Wednesday,” Dantley said. “I think we’re going to win Wednesday. It’s funny that I would never believe that Utah would beat us three games in a row. That’s just what I felt.” 
How about four straight? 
Utah point guard Deron Williams said the Jazz aren’t getting ahead of themselves. 

“We’re confident but we’re not just thinking the series is over already,” he said. “We have to close this thing out and hopefully we can do it in Denver. If not we’ll come back here and play. We’re real confi­dent that we can beat this team.” 
NFL 

Embattled QB Roethlisberger will accept suspension 
quences of my actions. Though I and will comply with what is “In your six years in the NFL, right to extend the suspension if 
Associated Press 

have committed no crime, I asked of me — and more,” he you have first thrilled and now he learns of any additional 
PITTSBURGH — A chastened regret that I have fallen short of said. disappointed a great many peo-problems. Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback the values instilled in me by my “I am sorry to let down my ple,” Goodell wrote. “I urge you Roethlisberger was not avail-Ben Roethlisberger accepted his family,” Roethlisberger said in teammates and the entire to take full advantage of this able Monday for further com­six-game suspension for violat-the statement. Steelers fan base. I am disap-opportunity to get your life and ment. Because he cannot work ing the NFL’s personal conduct Roethlisberger was cleared of pointed that I have reached this career back on track.” out or train with his teammates policy Monday and promised to charges, but commissioner point and will not put myself in The suspension can be until the league clears him after “comply with what is asked of Roger Goodell cracked down on this situation again,” reduced to four games if behavioral evaluations, he will me — and more.” one of his biggest stars because Roethlisberger said. “I appreci-Roethlisberger completes an not take part in the team’s 
In his first comments since “you are held to a higher stan-ate the opportunities that I have evaluation mandated by the mandatory three-day minicamp the NFL handed down the dard as an NFL player, and been given in my life and will league, any action that is man-this weekend. penalty last week, there is nothing about your con-make the necessary improve-dated by that evaluation and he Roethlisberger was cleared of Roethlisberger apologized to his duct in Milledgeville (Ga.) that ments.” remains out of trouble. He can charges because a prosecutor teammates and fans for his can remotely be described as Roethlisberger is the first practice during training camp said the case was not strong behavior last month in a admirable, responsible, or con-player suspended by Goodell and play in preseason games, enough to pursue, but the quar-Georgia bar, where a 20-year-sistent with either the values of under the conduct policy who but cannot return to game terback was rebuked by author-old college student accused him the league of the expectations hasn’t been arrested or charged action until at least Oct. 17. ities, Goodell and Steelers presi­of sexual assault. of our fans.” with a crime. Goodell said the Until now, he has sat out only dent Art Rooney II. Georgia 
“The commissioner’s decision The two-time Super Bowl league’s conduct policy gave eight games in six seasons due prosecutor Fred Bright was to suspend me speaks clearly winner said that while it will be him the right to impose disci-to injury or to rest up for the especially harsh, telling the that more is expected of me. I “devastating” to miss games, “I pline regardless of whether playoffs. quarterback, “Grow up ... cut it am accountable for the conse-will not appeal the suspension Roethlisberger broke the law. Goodell also said he has the out. You can do better.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Sublet Irish Row 2bd Apt Contact 3 BR home, nice area, walk to ND. If you or someone you care about Sam Krause- skrause1@nd.edu, $725/mo. 574-286-0081. has been sexually assaulted, we
WANTED FOR RENT Rent Negotiable ——————————————— PERSONAL can help. 
——————————————— 
Graduation week/Football Season New upscale apts. Less than 1 mil UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? For more information, visit Notre SUMMER WORK, great pay, flexi-is coming - Make reservation now from ND, next to Taco Bell on SR FOR SALE Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has Dame's website: http.csap.nd.edu ble schedules, no experience need-with Georgia Peach Bed and 933. 2-story, 8 unit bldg. Each has many resources in place to assist ——————————————— ed, customer sales/service, ages Breakfast with four bedroom. (We 2bd/2bath. GE appliances w/dish-Dad & Mom, ask your accountant if you. If you or someone you love more money for your textbooks, 18+, www.workforstudents.com will rent the house). We are located washer. Mstr. bdrm w/walkin closet. student son/daughter can “manage” needs confidential support or assis-free dorm room pickup, fast pay-
eight miles from Notre Dame. We No water/sewer bill. $1000/mo this 4br, 2b house. tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at ment, ——————————————— are registered on the Niles starting. Call Holiday Inn Express 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For dormbooks.com ND &amp; SMC Students - campus Chamber of Commerce web site. @ 968-8080 &amp; leave msg. Call Lois McKinley, Coldwell Banker more information, visit ND's web ——————————————— job - textbook buyer during finals chamber@nilesmi.com. For more ——————————————— site: Wear The Shirt proud in your home-week - $10+/hour-dormbooks.com info, call (269)687-8499. gradrentals.viewwork.com 574-360-6071. http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu towns and support our football team 
this summer! ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Tuesday, April 27, 2010 page 13 
Men’s Division I Tennis ITA Poll 
team previous 
1 Virginia 1 2 Tennessee 2 3 Texas 3 4 Ohio State 5 5 Southern California 4 6 Florida 6 7 Stanford 7 8 UCLA 12 9 Baylor 11 10 Texas A&M 9 11 Georgia 10 12 Kentucky 8 13 Texas Tech 16 14 Illinois 13 15 Louisville 15 16 California 13 17 Duke 14 18 North Carolina 19 19 Mississippi 18 20 Virginia Tech 21 21 Oklahoma 20 22 Pepperdine 22 23 Wake Forest 23 24 Georgia Tech NR 25 Washington 24 
Women’s Division I Tennis ITA Poll 
team previous 
1 North Carolina 1 
2 Baylor 2 
3 Florida 3 
4 Michigan 4 
5 NOTRE DAME 5 
6 Northwestern 9 
7 UCLA 7 
8 Clemson 8 
9 Stanford 10 
10 Duke 6 
11 Miami 11 
12 California 12 
13 Tennessee 14 
14 Florida State 15 
15 Georgia 13 
16 South Carolina 18 
17 Mississippi 17 
18 Southern California 16 
19 Texas 20 
20 Georgia Tech 25 
21 Illinois NR 
22 VCU 24 
23 Arizona State NR 
24 South Florida 19 
25 Arkansas 23 


around the dial 
NHL Hockey 

Red Wings at Coyotes 9 p.m., Versus 
NBA Basketball 
Thunder at Lakers 
10:30 p.m., TNT 
MLB 


Phillies lock up Howard with extension 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO — Ryan Howard preferred securing his future in Philadelphia to testing free agency in two years. 
The slugging first base­man agreed to a $125 mil­lion, five-year contract extension Monday that could keep him with the Phillies until 2017. 
The 30-year-old Howard will make $20 million each in 2012 and 2013 and $25 million annually from 2014­
16. The Phillies have a $23 million club option for 2017 with a $10 million buyout. 
“This is a very good con­tract for him,” Howard’s agent Casey Close said. “The reason he felt the time was right was he loves his teammates, he loves the city. He wanted to be a part of something special for a long time to come.” 
The two-time All-Star led the Phillies to two straight trips to the World Series, winning a championship in 2008. 
The $25 million guaran­teed average salary in the extension will be baseball’s second-highest behind Alex Rodriguez’s $27.5 million average under a 10-year contract with the Yankees running through 2017. 
One of the factors that might have influenced Howard in agreeing to the deal now is that he would have been eligible for free agency after the 2011 sea­son, when he will be 32. 
After being briefly stuck in the minors while Jim Thome manned first for the Phillies, Howard was the 2005 Rookie of the Year at 25, the same age A-Rod signed his first free-agent deal — $252 million with Texas in 2001. 
Howard, the 2006 NL MVP, is earning $19 million this season as part of a $54 million, three-year deal that pays him $20 million in 2011. 
He signed that deal in February 2009, avoiding a potentially contentious arbi­tration hearing. 
Close said the sides began talking about a long-term deal during spring training, before the rumored mega-trade of Howard for St. Louis star Albert Pujols sur­faced on the Internet and was quickly quashed. 
Howard hit .279 with 45 homers and 141 RBIs last season and has three homers and 16 RBIs in 80 at-bats this April. 
While he has put up mon­ster numbers, averaging 
49.5 homers and 143 RBIs over the past four years, he has averaged 191 strikeouts over that span. 
Howard’s deal could influ­ence Derek Jeter’s next deal with the Yankees and Pujols’ next contract with the Cardinals. 
Jeter, who also is repre­sented by Close, is in the final season of a $189 mil­lion, 10-year contract. 
IN BRIEF 

Former Houston Oiler charged with DWI 
BRYAN, Texas — Former Houston Oilers quarterback Dan Pastorini has been charged with driving while intoxicated following a traffic acci­dent in Bryan, Texas. 
Officer Jason James says Pastorini was involved in a three-vehicle colli­sion late Sunday. He was arrested Monday after being treated for minor injuries, then freed after posting $3,000 bail. 
James says the 60-year-old Pastorini, who lives in Houston, about 90 miles southeast of Bryan, also was cited for failure to control speed. Blood test results are pending. 
James says Pastorini was alone when his car rear-ended a pickup, which then clipped another vehicle. 
Electronic jail records did not list an attorney for Pastorini, who was with the Oilers in the 1970s, then played for the Los Angeles Rams and the Philadelphia Eagles. 
Titans sign former Oregonrunning back Blount to squad 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — LeGarrette Blount, the Oregon running back sus­pended for punching a player last season, agreed to terms Monday with the Tennessee Titans as an undrafted free agent. Blount missed eight games in 2009 for punching Boise State defensive end Byron Hout in the season opener Sept. 3. Blount returned late in the season and played in the Rose Bowl loss to Ohio State. Titans coach Jeff Fisher said in a statement the team talked to a num­ber of people, including Blount, before offering him a deal. “He was a good college football play­er who, after talking to a number of people, merits a second chance,” Fisher said. “Certainly LeGarrette should understand consequences at this point and we have explained what our expectations are for him to be successful with this opportunity.” 
Mieuli, former Golden State 
Warriors owner, dies at 89 
OAKLAND, Calif. — Franklin Mieuli, whose deerstalker cap, substantial beard and casual style made him one of the NBA’s most colorful figures in his 24 years as owner of the Golden State Warriors, died Sunday. He was 89. 
Mieuli died of natural causes in a San Francisco Bay Area hospital, the Warriors said in a statement. Mieuli was the principal owner of the Warriors from the time they moved to the Bay Area in 1962 until he sold them in 1986. He won an NBA title with the team in 1975, still the club’s only cham­pionship in nearly a half-century in California. 
“Franklin was truly one of the innova­tors in our league, who was so proud of the Bay Area and his ability to maintain a team there,” NBA commissioner David Stern said in a statement Sunday night. “I have always fondly remembered ... his warmth and his belief in the importance of sports to a community.” 
page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, April 27, 2010 
NFL 

Traded veterans define NFL draft 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Time to draft and time to trade ... and trade ... and trade. 
NFL teams were almost as busy dealing veterans as they were making draft picks Saturday. Jason Campbell, LenDale White, Kirk Morrison, Leon Washington and Bryant McFadden all changed teams on the final day of the draft. 
With Donovan McNabb now in Washington, Campbell became expendable and was sent to Oakland for a fourth-round pick in 2012. Where that leaves JaMarcus Russell, the top overall pick of 2007 who has struggled with the Raiders, is anyone’s guess. 
The Tennessee Titans dealt White to Seattle, reuniting the running back with his college coach, Pete Carroll. Later, the Seahawks acquired another runner, versatile Leon Washington, from the Jets — who also released standout guard Alan Faneca. 
“Just a great one-two punch to add to our team,” Carroll said of the new runners, both of whom come with question marks. “We’re real excited about Leon Washington. Our guys loved him.” 
Washington missed half of 2009 with a severe leg injury. He recently re-signed with the Jets, for whom he has starred as a kick returner, runner and receiver. 
“It’s a great opportunity,” he said. “I’m just excited.” 
The burly and bruising White helped Carroll win a national championship with the Trojans. But he lost his starting job to Chris Johnson and had problems being on time for meetings. 
“As far as LenDale falling out of favor, he practiced,” Titans coach Jeff Fisher said. “He was prepared to play. I think I can’t blame him for wanting to play more. That’s the kind of players you want on your roster. Considering the circumstances, he handled things. There were issues I don’t need to bring up. I thought he handled things reasonably well.” 
Oakland also sent starting middle linebacker Morrison to Jacksonville as the bartering got heavy in Round 4. 
“For me, it’s a new begin­ning. I feel like I was drafted all over again,” Morrison said. 
Pittsburgh’s fifth-round deal brought back McFadden, who won a Super Bowl with the Steelers in 2008. Arizona drafted quarterback John Skelton of Fordham with the pick it received in the trade. 
The fourth round began with St. Louis further bolster­ing its anemic offense by tak­ing wide receiver Mardy Gilyard, who once lost his scholarship at Cincinnati and even lived out of his car. 
When new Seahawks coach Carroll dealt for one of his mainstays at Southern California, getting White from the Titans for Seattle’s fourth-rounder and sixth-rounder, Seattle also received defensive tackle Kevin Vickerson. The Titans selected UCLA corner­back Alterraun Verner with the spot acquired in the deal. 

Vickerson was suspended for four games in 2008 for violating the NFL perform­ance enhancers policy. He’s been a situational player for Tennessee. 
Southern Cal tight end Anthony McCoy, who tested positive for marijuana earlier this year, went 185th overall, also to Carroll in Seattle. McCoy was academically ineli­gible for the Emerald Bowl last season, the last game 
C ar ro ll  c oa ch e d  f or  th e  
Tr oj a ns  be f o re  t a ki ng  th e  
Seahawks job.  

Oakland selected one of the draft’s fastest players, wide-out Jacoby Ford of Clemson, with the pick acquired from the Jaguars for Morrison. After drafting Rolando McClain in the first round to take over at middle line ­backer, Morrison became expendable despite leading the Raiders in tackles the past four seasons. 
“I definitely didn’t see a slip in my play,” Morrison said. “Now I can move to Jacksonville and show what I can do.” 
St. Louis made quarterback Sam Bradford the first overall selection Thursday night and began the second round Friday by choosing offensive lineman Rodger Saffold from Indiana. 
Gilyard was pick No. 99 overall and one of the most high-profile players still avail­able. He should help the Rams on kick returns, too. 
“It’s like slim to none that kids actually get to go pro,” Gilyard said. “My mom, she’s bananas right now. She’s going to call me about eight times in a row.” 
In another deal, the Jets moved up to Carolina’s spot to draft USC’s Joe McKnight at No. 112. That freed the way to deal Washington, and New York chose Kentucky fullback John Conner with the pick secured from Seattle. 
All -American tight end Aaron Hernandez of Florida went to New England, the sec­ond tight end chosen by the Patriots. When DE Eric Norwood of South Carolina was taken by the Panthers at No. 124, every eligible All-American except placekicker Leigh Tiffin had gone. 
The only Rhodes scholar chosen came on the final spot in the sixth round when Tennessee chose Florida State safety Myron Rolle. 
“I sacrificed a lot in my Rhodes scholarship experi­ence to stay in shape, make sure I was ready and pride myself for this exact moment,” Rolle said. 
Wide receiver Tim Toone of Weber State was Mr. Irrelevant, the 255th and final pick. Unchosen were Oregon running back LeGarrette Blount, who was suspended for most of last season after punching a Boise State player in the opener; wideout Danario Alexander of Missouri, who led the nation with 1,781 yards receiving; and quarterbacks Javon Snead of Mississippi and Max Hall of Brigham Young. 
NASCAR 

Harvick wins Talladega thriller 
Associated Press 

TALLADEGA, Ala. — Kevin Harvick had the last laugh in the best place, Victory Lane, with an overdue but well-timed celebration. 
Harvick used a last-second pass of Jamie McMurray to snap a 115-race winless streak Sunday at Talladega Superspeedway, where he closed out a dramatic week for his race team. Shell Oil Company told Richard Childress Racing this week it was moving its sponsorship at the end of the season, pushing the organization into a search for the funding neccessary to sign Harvick to a contract extension. 
Harvick, who won the 2007 season-opening Daytona 500 in his first race with Shell, could-n’t help but delight at the tim­ing. 
“I think it’s great karma with everything that has happened this week with the sponsor,” he said with a sly smile. “I think it’s kind of funny in itself. I think, all in all, it was really good for our team, good for all the cars that have been run­ning well all year and we’ve been really close to winning races. 
“But the karma thing is the best part.” 
Harvick did it with a sling­shot pass that he devised in conversations over the week­end with crew chief Gil Martin and their RCR team. 
Harvick lurked behind in traffic, trying to move his way into second place as the race hit the closing laps. His plan was to set himself up for one attempt at the lead, which he made roughly 500 yards from the finish line by sliding inside of McMurray then drag-racing him to the checkered flag. 

“We made a plan, and I’m telling you, every piece of it played out exactly how we wanted to play it,” Harvick said. “Coming into the last lap, that’s exactly how we planned it out on paper.” 
The win came in the longest Talladega race in Sprint Cup history. Because NASCAR’s new overtime rule allows for three attempts at its version of over­time, the race went 12 laps past the scheduled distance of 188 trips around the 2.66-mile superspeedway. 
It covered a record 88 lead changes among a record 29 drivers, and the final pass was the one that had everyone talk­ing. 
“I hate to show my age, but that was a tremendous pass just like the old days, like you would have seen Buddy Baker or Cale Yarborough,” Martin said. “That was a tremendous pass, and it was timed perfect­ly.” 
McMurray, this year’s Daytona 500 winner after win­ning the October race at Talladega, couldn’t hide his dis­appointment at misplaying the final half-lap. Seeking his third consecutive restrictor-plate vic­tory, he stretched his fuel tank to the bitter end while racing wide-open to the finish line. 



Tuesday, April 27, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
NBA 

Celtics eager to finish off Wade, Heat in Boston 
Associated Press  a franchise playoff record, helped keep the Heat’s sea­ “There’s a lot of urgency,” ball most of the time,” Pierce Pierce said. “Next time I go said. “You’ve got to expect  
WALTHAM, Mass. — You  son alive. They won 101-92  to Miami, hopefully I’ll be on h i m t o h a v e b i g n u m b e r s  
g u a r d D w y a n e Wa d e t o o  at home, cutting the Celtics  vacation.” because of that, but it’s the  
closely and he drives to the  lead to 3-1 and forcing the  First he and his teammates other guys that we have to  
basket. Give him some room  best-of-seven series back to  h a v e a t o u g h shut down and  
and he sinks a 3-pointer.  Boston.  work day. And I’m a big part of  
What are the Boston Celtics  “ We ’ r e n o t e a s y o p p o - i t ’s n o t j u s t t h a t w h e n I ’ m  
to do?  nents,” Wade said. “They’re  Wa d e w h o the guy guard- 
“It’s a tricky situation,” Ray Allen said. Allen has the unenvi abl e t a s k o f b e i n g t h e C e l t i c  g o i n g t o m a k e s o m e r u n s . We’ve got to be able to be t o u g h a n d n o t s a y ‘ We l l , guys, it’s been a good year.’ “  causes trouble. i n g Q u e n t i n “Next time I go toO n S u n d a y, Richardson.” Miami, hopefully I’ll Q u e n t i n A w i n b y R i c h a r d s o n be on vacation.” M i a m i w o u l d  
assigned to defend the Miami  That’s just what Paul Pierce  s c o r e d 2 0 send the series  
Heat star most of the time — h i s n e x t c h a n c e c o m e s Tuesday night in Game 5 —  would like to hear from the H e a t . H i s j u m p e r a t t h e b u z z e r g a v e t h e C e l t i c s a  points, Udonis back there for aPaul Pierce H a s l e m s i x t h g a m e o n Celtics swingmang r a b b e d 1 1 Thursday night.  
although Allen’s teammates  100-98 win in Game 3, set- r ebou n d s a nd T h e C e l t i c s  
are supposed to help. None of  ting up the possibility of a  M i c h a e l spent about an  
t h e m d i d w e l l e n o u g h o n  sweep.  B e a s l e y c o n -h o u r w a t c h i n g  
Sunday.  T h a t d i d n ’t h a p p e n a n d  v e r t e d a k e y film on Monday,  
Wade raced in for layups  now he’s eager to wrap the  offensive rebound late in the a session coach Doc Rivers  
a n d s o a r e d h i g h f o r l o n g - series up in front of his home  game. thought would take 20 min- 
range jumpers. His 46 points,  fans.  “Wade is going to have the utes. Then they practiced for  


about an hour. 
Rivers doesn’t expect major adjustments in the Celtics defense. He does want them to play it more intensely. 
“Dwyane Wade’s a great player. Give him that. But we’re going to defend him and it’s going to be tough,” Rivers said. “If I can find a guy in the league that can just keep Dwyane Wade in front of him whenever he wants to, we’re signing him.” 
Wade has increased his scoring in each game from 26 to 29 to 34 to 46. He’s hit 52 of his 86 shots (60.5 percent) and 13 of 30 of his 3-pointers 
(43.3 percent). He was at his most accurate on Sunday, hit­ting 16 of 24 shots and five of seven 3-pointers. 
“Shooting 67 percent is the bigger number for us,” Rivers said. “The 46 we could live with if it was 25 percent.” 
And don’t forget his aver­age of five rebounds and six assists in the series. But his personal numbers aren ’t Wade’s main focus. 
“I don’t know if I’m going to score 40 again. I don ’t know if I’m going to score 14,” he said. “My job is to do whatever I can to make sure we win the ballgame.” 
The Heat dropped the first two in Boston — 85-76 and 106 -77 — when they lost their composure for key stretches. 
They led the opener by 14 points midway through the third quarter. In Game 2, they allowed a 44-8 surge that turned a 29-25 lead into a 69-37 deficit. 
Miami is 1-6 against the Celtics this season but had a solid chance in five of those losses. 
“We’ve shown we’re capa­ble of beating them. We just had to go ahead, go out there and finish, complete it, ” Richardson said. “And now we need to do it again.” 
He left Sunday’s game with a bruised left hand and will play Tuesday night after an MRI showed it wasn’t broken. 
“We ’ve been measured there mentally more than anything, and, at some point, they’ve gotten us to break,” Miami coach Erik Spoelstra said. “They’ve been able to control the games, particu­larly in the fourth quarters. And (Tuesday), we’re looking for our breakthrough. It’s got to be different.” 
Boston’s Allen hopes it is — at least from the free throw line. He struggled there Sunday despite shooting 91 percent this season. 
He hit one free throw with 
2:36 left, cutting Miami ’s lead to 96 -92. Then he missed his next three, only the 10th time he’s missed that many in his 1,103 games in the regular season and playoffs. 
So he did some extra free throw shooting Monday. 
“I took about 150. I missed five of them,” he said. 
If he had made those three on Sunday, or if Wade had missed a few more shots, the series might already be over. 
If Miami wins Tuesday, it will continue. 
“The world is all about ‘what ifs,’ “ Allen said. “We don’t want to be in ‘what if’ forever. We want to control our destiny.” 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, April 27, 2010 
Big East 
continued from page 20 
appropriate.” 
The Cardinals’ depth and experience aided in their vic­tory — their second Big East title. 
“They have had a terrific year, being ranked somewhere between 10 and 15 most of the season and it showed,” Bayliss said. 
The Cardinals jumped to a 1-0 lead early in the match by winning the doubles point in two tightly contested matches at the No. 2 and No. 3 posi­tions. 
At No. 2, Notre Dame junior Tyler Davis and sophomore Niall Fitzgerald lost 8-5 to Austen Childs and Viktor Maksimcuk. Davis and Fitzgerald fell behind early, but tied the match at 4-4. Childs and Maksincuk took four of the next five games for the win to stop the Irish duo’s comeback. 
Louisville grabbed the dou­bles point after the Irish No. 3 pair of juniors David Anderson and Daniel Stahl were defeat­ed by Robert Hall and Chidi Gabriel 8-4. The Cardinals team started with a 4-3 lead that the Irish couldn’t over­come. 
The No. 1 doubles match went unfinished after the dou­bles point had already been won by Louisville. Junior Stephen Havens and sopho­more Casey Watt were tied 8-8 with Simon Childs and Alejandro Calligari to go into a tiebreaker. Havens and Watt had been leading 7-5 before Louisville struck back as the match was ended. 
SMC TENNIS 


Belles close regular season with win 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
The Belles picked up a strong victory in their final match Monday before the MIAA Championships with an 8-1 victory over Olivet at Michigan State University. 
Saint Mary ’s (11 -8, 4-4 MIAA) has now won the last three conference matches of its regular season, with vic­tories over Bethel and MIAA rival Adrian last week. 

“We competed hard in dou­bles and might have won at No. 1, but they were just a lit­tle bit too good,” Bayliss said. 
Louisville’s success carried into the singles competition, where Anderson first went down 6-3, 6-0 to Andrew Carter at No. 5 singles and Watt fell 6-0, 6-2 to A. Childs at the No. 1 spot. 
Notre Dame fought back in the others singles contests with sophomore Samuel Keeton, Havens, Stahl and freshman Blas Moros all extending their matches. Hall’s 6-3, 6-3 defeat over Moros at No. 6 singles gave Louisville the crown. Hall went on to be named the tour­nament’s Most Outstanding Performer. 
With its No. 38 ranking, Notre Dame has a strong chance of playing in the NCAA Championships for the 19th time in the past 20 seasons with an at-large bid, and Bayliss said he is confident in his team’s chances. 
“Now it is all about getting ready for the NCAAs and mak­ing whatever improvements we can to give us a chance to do some damage there,” Bayliss said. “We find out where we will go next week. There are some areas in which we can gain some ground now that we are away from competition for awhile and this is the time to make those moves.” 
The Irish will find out their fate at 5 p.m. on May 4 when the NCAA Division I Tennis Championships Selection Show takes place on ESPNEWS. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 

ior Franca Peluso extended the Belles lead with their 8-2 victory over Olivet’s Celeste Gruber and Kelsey Singer. 
Saint Mary’s suffered its first and only loss of the day when No. 1 doubles pair of Jillian Hurley and Mary Therese Lee were defeated by Giana Guerra and Caitlin LaValley 8-3. 
The Belles came back in the singles divisions, and let no one stand in their way as they won all six of the sin­
gles matches. 

At No. 1 singles, Hurley defeated LaValley in a 6-1, 6-2 vic ­tory while Lee picked up a 6-0, 6-3 win 
over Paige Sedgewick at the No. 5 position, with both players fourth singles, Kosinski beat Singer in a three set match, 3-6, 6-2, 1-0 (10-7). 
Rounding out the singles was junior Monica Way, win­ning 7-6 (7-5), 6-2 against Baker. 
The Belles now turn their attention to the MIAA Championships, which will be held Friday and Saturday at Hope College in Holland, Mich. In preparation for the tournament, Campbell knows where his team needs to keep their focus. 
“We have two more prac­tices,” Campbell said. “We need to divide the attention between singles and doubles, work on a few strategic things, and play more aggressively.” 
Saint Mary ’s enters the tournament ranked fifth behind Calvin, Hope, Kalamazoo and Albion. 
“We just need to believe in our shots and our ability to hit the shots we know we needs,” Campbell said. “We need to make teams react to us in double as opposed to us reacting to them.” 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 

Bid 
continued from page 20 
77. The 1-2-3 finish pow­ered the Belles from a five-stroke deficit entering the day to a 28-stroke lead over second-place Olivet heading into the final round. With the Saturday total of 311, got it done,” he said. 
S a i n t  M a r y ’s  s e t  a  n e w  
s ch o o l and  course  r ecord  
f o r  t h e  l o w  
s c o r e  i n  a n  

Now that Saint Mary’s has earned a berth in the NCAA championships, they turn their focus to the national competition just after finals. 
“It’s tough to stay sharp with finals. I would really like to finish in the top four and bring hardware home,” Hamilton said. “We’ll have to play our best for four days and it’s tough to do, but it’s totally doable.” 
Even though 
the team ’s 

MIAA competi-“We did what we season is not tion. over, Hamilton 
had to do, and
“It was a said he great round, ” whether we win by already con ­Hamilton said. one stroke or 30 siders his “[Boyce] had it team’s spring 
strokes, we got it
going. She had campaign a
done.” 
a great day.” positive one, 
T h e f i n a l especially con-round of the Mark Hamilton sidering the MIAA qualifier team ’s losses 
Belles coach
Saturday tested the Belles. Olivet fired a low score of 328, while Saint Mary ’s limped to a 348, which was good enough to earn an overall eight-stroke victory. 
Matuszak again played well, turning in a round of 81 for the second-best score of the day. O’Connor came in second for Saint Mary’s with an 85 to tie for ninth overall. 
“She had a really good round at Blackthorn, and kept it together on Saturday,” Hamilton said. “Consistency-wise she did a great job. She kept us in the game on Saturday.” 
Despite the Belles’ strug­gles Saturday, Hamilton said he was happy with his team’s ability to do what was necessary to pull out the victory. 
“We did what we had to do, and whether we win by one stroke or 30 strokes, we 

of Martyna Mierzwa and Emily Gore. 
“I’d say this year’s defi­nitely been a success,” he said. “You ’d be hard ­pressed to find a team that could lose two top players and qualify for the national championship.” 
With the NCAA champi ­onships looming, Hamilton and the Belles are opti ­mistic about their chances. 
“This team is peaking at the right time,” Hamilton said. “We’re looking now for some hardware.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu and Luke Mansour at lmansour@nd.edu 



“It ’s always good to end with a 
c o n f e r e n c e  w i n ,  
a n d  w e ’ v e  w o n  
t w o  i n  a  r o w  

now, ” Belles coach Dale Campbell said. “We have some momentum lead­ing up to the tour­nament, which is good.” 

“We have some momentum leading up to the tournament, which is good.” 
Dale Campbell Belles coach 
The No. 3 doubles duo of junior Jessica Kosinski and freshman Care Rectanus began the day with an 8-2 win over Jenna Baker and Leanne Scudder. Senior cap­tain Camille Gebert and jun-giving up only three games in each of their matches. 

Gebert won 6-2, 6-2 at No. 2 singles over Guerra in yet another victory for the team leader while Peluso defeated Gruber 6-3, 6-2 at No. 3. At 

Tuesday, April 27, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, April 27, 2010 
Mills 
continued from page 20 
seven straight outings out of the bullpen, and he has not issued a walk against 63 consecutive hitters. 
Toledo will be a tough non-conference test for the Irish, with a 23-16 record on the season. The Rockets lineup is batting .324 this season and is averaging almost nine runs per game. 
But the Toledo staff has not provided the offense with the same support, with a staff ERA of 8.74. Notre Dame could be in for a high-scoring contest against the powerful lineup but weak pitching staff. 
First pitch against the Rockets from Frank Eck Stadium will be at 6:05 p.m. today. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
Title 
continued from page 20 

doubles teams came out strong, playing solid tennis and pushing the top Irish duo of sophomore Kristy Frilling and senior Kali Krisik to a close 8­6 decision, with Notre Dame ultimately securing the victory. 
The Irish clinched the dou­bles point when freshman Chrissie McGaffigan and junior Kristen Rafael scored a 6-2 win at third doubles. 
“Our third team won quickly, which made things easier, and they’ve been playing well since we put them together,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. “But [DePaul’s] doubles teams came out really strong, and they were much tougher than the last time we played them, especially their second team.” 
Several strong singles per­formances paced the Irish against DePaul, which spent a good portion of the season in the top-25. 
Senior Cosmina Ciobanu, whose strong play at fourth singles paced the Irish all season, finished her test and the Big East home was really nice.” 

Tournament’s Most The tournament win clinched Outstanding Notre Dame a place in the Player award. NCAA tournament starting “It was great May 14. Louderback said he 


match against because usually believes the endurance the 
“Our kids have been
Sandra Zmak the top singles team showed in the Big East 
working on playing
first, pulling off a player wins the tilt, as well as the potential 6-2, 6-1 victory, with poise and to award, but it opportunity to host tourna­closely followed was nice for ment games in South Bend, 
win it at home was
by 16th-ranked her to get it,” gives the Irish a good chance 
really nice.” 
Frilling winning L o u d e r b a c k at advancing deep into the her match at first said. “Most of tournament. singles over 79th-Jay Louderback all it was nice “Playing three days in a row, ranked Anna to get her back which is something we’ll have 
Irish coach
Redesci by the and playing at to do in the NCAA’s, was some-score of 6-1, 6-2, full health.” thing that will really help us to put the Irish The enormity prepare,” Louderback said. within one point of the title. of the feat and the fact that it Notre Dame is in the running 
The clinching point came took place at home made the to host the NCAA first and sec-from senior Kali Krisik, whose victory extra special for the ond rounds for the second 6-4 6-3 victory over Gia Irish squad. straight year, but will not find McKnight capped a tourna-“Playing DePaul for the third out the early-round locations ment in which she went a com-time was really tough,” and pairings until early May. bined 6-0 in singles and dou-Louderback said. “But our kids bles matches en route to win-have been working on playing Contact Chris Allen at ning her seventh straight con-with poise and to win it at callen10@nd.edu 

Tuesday, April 27, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Tuesday, April 27, 2010 page 20 
BASEBALL 

Ready for more 
Mills, fellow seniors 

prepared to lead team  
By MICHAEL BRYAN  
Sports Writer  
The Irish will once again  
look to their seniors to con­ 
t i n u e t h e i r s e a s o n t u r n - 
around today against Toledo,  
h o s t i n g t h e R o c k e t s a f t e r  
winning their second straight  
Big East series last weekend  
against Cincinnati.  
Cementing the series win  
over the Bearcats was senior  
D a v i d M i l l s , w h o h a s l e d  
Notre Dame both at the plate  
a n d f r o m t h e m o u n d t h i s  
season. With the rainy rub­ 
ber match Sunday tied 4-4 in  
t h e b o t t o m o f t h e n i n t h  
inning, Mills sliced a pitch  
f r o m C i n c i n n a t i c l o s e r  
A n d r e w B u r k e t t b a r e l y  
inside the leftfield foul pole  
to give the Irish a walk-off  
win.  
“ H e ’s h a d s o m e c l u t c h  
h i t s , ” I r i s h c o a c h D a v e  
S c h r a g e s a i d o f M i l l s . “ I  
don’t think you can ask much  
more of a player. He’s done a great job in relief, and now he just continues to get some  JULIE HERDER/The Observer Senior David Mills stands ready at the plate against Rutgers in a home game earlier this month. He has been leading the Irish comeback from the plate and the mound.  
big hits for us — just having  
a great season.”  Bearcats rebounded and held to climb to seventh in the h a v e l e d t h e t e am ’s t ur n- 
The win gave Notre Dame  onto a 5-4 victory Saturday league standings. While the around, with Mills’ versatili­ 
the series win after winning  t o e v e n t h e s e r i e s b e f o r e Irish are three games out of ty standing out. In addition  
the opener last Friday 5-2.  Mills’ heroics Sunday. a tie for fourth, their recent to tying for the team lead  
Junior Brian Dupra allowed  After starting the year 2-7 success gives the team hope with 26 RBIs, Mills has not  
just two runs in 7 and 1/3  in conference competition, for the Big East tournament. a l l ow e d a n ea r ne d r un i n  
innings to give the Irish their f o u r t h s t r a i g h t w i n . T h e  Notre Dame has won five of S e n i o r s , M i l l s , Ry a n their last six in the Big East Connolly and Casey Martin see MILLS /page 18  

SMC GOLF 
Belles earn fifth NCAA appearance 
By ALLAN JOSEPH and LUKE 
MANSOUR 
Sports Writers 
Saint Mary’s used an all-around performance Friday at Blackthorn Golf Club and did just enough Saturday at Notre Dame’s Warren Golf Course to claim the top 
overall spot in the MIAA qualifying rounds, earning its fifth trip to the national championships. 
The Belles took third to Olivet and Hope this week­end with their score of 348, but a shot total of 992 in the three MIAA contests this spring gives them the bid over Olivet’s total of 1,000. 
“Those two days couldn’t have been any more diamet­rically opposed, ” Belles coach Mark Hamilton said. “It’s always tough to back up one of your best rounds with another the next day.” 
Junior Mary Kate Boyce led the Belles Friday, card­ing a 74 to set an MIAA course record and earn medalist honors in the process. Sophomore Natalie Matuszak finished second overall with a 76 and junior Rosie O’Connor rounded out the top three golfers with a 
see BID/page 16 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Irish win conference title 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
The No. 5 Irish dominated conference play this weekend, defeating West Virginia, Syracuse and DePaul by a combined score of 18-0 to win the Big East Championship trophy at Notre Dame’s Courtney Tennis Center. The title was Notre Dame’s third straight and 10th in 15 years. 
The Irish (22-3) easily defeated lower-ranked foes West Virginia and Syracuse on their way to the title match. 
The championship match marked the third time Notre Dame faced the Blue Demons this spring. The Irish won each of the previous meetings 6-1. 
In the title match, DePaul’s 
see TITLE/page 18 


MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer Senior Cosmina Ciobanu returns a DePaul serve in an April 16. The Irish defeated the Blue Demons Sunday in the Big East title match. 
MEN’S TENNIS 
Notre Dame loses Big East championship 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish fell 4-0 to No. 15 Louisville in a hard-fought Big East title match to end the tournament at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Notre Dame (15-12) missed the opportunity to play in the final round last season. The team now moves to 7-5 all-time in Big East title match­es. 
“While we did not achieve the clear goal of winning the Big East, I was proud of the way we competed against South Florida in the semi­finals to reach the final against Louisville,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. 
The Irish defeated Georgetown 4-0 in the open­ing round Friday to advance to the semifinals by winning the doubles point and three singles matches without dropping a set. Saturday saw Notre Dame defeat South Florida 4-1 to avenge a loss earlier this season where the Bulls defeated the Irish 4-3. 
“Louisville was a different story,” Bayliss said. “Despite the 4-0 score, I thought we were in position to win the unfinished matches and make things look more respectable, however, post­season play usually means stopping when the match is clinched, and I think that is 
see BIG EAST/page 16 







