the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Debate covers safety,community ties 
Three student government tickets discuss issues from food services to non-discrimination clause 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
The three student government tickets competing for student body president and vice presi­dent debated food services, stu­dent safety and tree houses Wednesday evening in LaFortune Student Center. 
Juniors Eras Noel and Julian Corona, sophomores Catherine Soler and Andrew Bell, and freshmen Peter Ledet and Gabe Alvare faced off in front of a full crowd in the first student gov­ernment debate moderated by Judicial Council vice president Marcelo Perez. 
Perez allowed the candidates an opening and closing state­ment and the chance to answer questions posed by himself as well as the audience. 
The Zahm ticket took the floor first in pink onesies and sport coats, asserting that the two are “super serial” candidates run­ning for emperor and vice emperor. 
Soler then said her ticket’s first focus will be instating a rental textbook program in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
“This is a tangible idea that affects every student, every semester,” Soler said. 
Noel said his primary cam­paign goal is creating a system in which students would be able to use Flex Points in Eddy Street Commons. The duo said they have been discussing the issue with managers at Five Guys 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer Candidates for student body president and vice president sit during Wednesday night’s debate in LaFortune. The general election will be held Monday from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. 
Burgers and Fries. 
“They are excited to work with us,” Noel said. 
In response to a question from the audience about the Flex Points plan, Bell said his ticket has also researched the issue and found it is not feasible. 
“The past two administrations have tried to do this and failed,” Bell said. “But we have some alternatives because off-campus eating is important.” 
Soler said the two have dis­cussed systematizing and publi­cizing existing off-campus dis­counts offered to students who show their ID cards and an off-campus meal plan option. 
On the issue of improving stu­dent food services, Noel said his ticket wants to revamp Grab­and-Go options by creating a to-go box that students would be allowed to take into the dining hall to get hot food. 
Ledet said his ticket also has plans to improve food options at Notre Dame, but his platform includes an all-male tree house where Keenan Hall currently stands, which will have an end­less supply of Lunchables and juice boxes. 
“It will be nachos and pizza all day long,” Ledet said. 
After a question from Perez 
see DEBATE/page 8 



ND career fair brings employers to campus 
By LIZ O’DONNELL 
News Writer 
Scores of students clad in business attire ventured to the Joyce Center Wednesday evening to attend the 2010 Winter Career and Internship Fair. 
Over 120 companies — slightly less than years past — were on hand to talk to stu­dents about post-graduation jobs and summer internships. The industries represented at the fair ran the gamut and included big-name firms such as Lockheed Martin, General Electric and Procter & Gamble. 
Freshman Andrew Romero, a prospective marketing major, said he wanted to attend the career fair to get a general feeling for what the event is like. He said it was informa­tive. 
“It was pretty cool how it was arranged with all the com­panies tables set up inside,” he said. “It didn’t seem that intim­idating.” 
Romero said he spoke with the Raytheon Corporation 
see CAREER/page 8 



Four businesses start at Innovation Park 
By LAURA KNAUF 
News Writer 
Four promising new businesses have recently been established at Innovation Park, the facility just south of Notre Dame’s campus, David Brenner, the park’s presi­dent and CEO, said. 
Current Notre Dame faculty and students helped found two of these businesses — Emu Solutions and Unlimited Juice, LLC. 
Jay Brockman, associate dean of engineering and co-founder of Emu Solutions, said he and co-founders Peter Kogge and Ed Upchurch settled at Notre Dame because being part of the University’s research efforts was important to their business plan. 
“Being so close to campus enables us to consider projects that take our core designs and extend them into new application areas, where the expertise of other university faculty can be beneficial,” Kogge, a computer science and engineering profes­sor, said. 

Emu, which stands for Enhanced Memory Utilization, is a company that develops computer technology to help “bridge the gap between memory and logic capa­bilities in computer systems,” according to a Jan. 26 press release. 
Brockman said Emu Solutions benefits from skilled students, fac­ulty and alumni from Notre Dame, who aid in their research and marketing endeavors. 
“Aside from the three founders, we’ve hired a number of consult­ants, of which more than half have Notre Dame connections,” Brockman said. 
see PARK/page 8 




ConcertraisesfundsforSisters 
By CAROLYNN SMITH 
News Writer 
A charity concert — “Singing for the Sisters” — was held in the Little Theater, Wednesday night on Saint Mary’s campus. It was organ­ized by the Student Activities Board (SAB) in order to sup­port Belles for Africa and their work with the Sisters of the Holy Cross in Uganda. 
“Belles for Africa is a pro­gram started by the Student Athletics Advisory Committee (SAAC) to raise funds for Uganda,” Student Activities Board (SAB) president Michele Peterson said. “100 percent of the proceeds will be donated to the Belles for Africa program on behalf of the student body.” This event brought together a cappella groups from Saint 
see CONCERT/page 8 



INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Senior gift to go to Library page 3  NDTV grows up page 13  National Signing Day review page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Thursday, February 4, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Like Christmas 
For many college football fans, National Signing Day is like Christmas. However, instead of young children jumping out of bed in the morning to find out what Santa Claus brought them, on Signing Day throngs of middle aged men run to their com­puter to hit the refresh button all day while anxious­ly awaiting this year’s recruiting haul. 
There is a fine line between a healthy interest in who will be play­ing for your school the next four years and a creepy obsession with 18-year-old kids making a choice that will affect them the rest of their lives. Unfortunately, it seems as if that line is crossed more often every year. 
An example of this trend involves high school senior Chris Martin. The five star defensive lineman out of Aurora, Colo., originally committed to Notre Dame while Charlie Weis was still at the helm. Martin, like many other prospects, wanted to keep his options open and opted to visit other schools while still holding a verbal pledge to Notre Dame. During this process, alumni from several schools took it upon them­selves to “friend” or send a message to Martin on Facebook to plead their case as to why he should attend their favorite school. Martin had to delete many messages, as he some­times received hundreds in a given day. He eventually committed to California last month, ending a hec­tic year-long process in deciding which school to attend. 
While these “fans” believe they are helping their school land elite prospects by stalking them, such interference can only affect that school negatively. It is an NCAA vio­lation for fans to contact a recruit. And even if it was not a violation, a recruit would never say, “Wow! 500 Notre Dame fans sent me a message on Facebook today. That must be the place for me.” If anything, the recruit may be annoyed by that fan-base and become less likely to enroll there. 
This is not to diminish the impor­tance of recruiting. There is a rea­son (among several others) why cer­tain schools find themselves at the top of the polls at the end of virtual­ly every season: recruiting. Each of the last five national title winners have had multiple top-five recruiting classes in the four years leading up to their championship. In order to compete at a high level in college football this day in age, you must be able to recruit the top athletes. 
So for anyone thinking of adding a football recruit as a Facebook friend, ask yourself a simple ques­tion first: “Does this person know who I am?” If not, then chances are you are more of a stalker than you are a fan. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT  S YOUR DREAM JOB? 







“To be the head  “A motorcycle  “A food taster,  “A cabana girl  “I want to be a  
coach of a Notre  stunt driver.”  like on the Food  in Hawaii.”  cabana girl too.  
Dame National  Network ...  Thanks Fogel.”  
Championship  without getting  
team.”  fat.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 

Deputy arrested for drunk driving locked in K-9 cage 
BLOUNTVILLE, Tenn. — A Tennessee sheriff’s deputy arrested on a drunken driving charge wound up in a dog house before he was taken to the big house. The Kingsport Times-News reported the details of a Tennessee Highway Patrol arrest report, which said 47-year­old Samuel Monroe Bledsoe was kicking the windows of a trooper’s cruiser on his way to a hos­pital for a blood test. 
The report said Bledsoe was then locked inside the cruiser’s K-9 cage for his safety. Trooper David Osborne said in the report that Bledsoe performed poorly during a field sobriety test — even after it was explained to Bledsoe 18 times. 
Cantaloupe intercepted by jail officers contained drugs 
WENATCHEE, Wash. — The donated cantaloupe that arrived at the Chelan County Regional Justice Center looked more like a pumpkin. Jail Administrator Phil Stanley said there was a noticeable cut around the top. And jail officers who intercepted the melon Monday before it reached inmates found tobacco and a baggie full of oxycodone pills stuffed inside. 
Stanley said the jail rou­tinely uses surplus food from local grocery stores and con­traband has come in with food in the past. In this case, a surveillance camera at the Plaza Super Jet had showed two young women dropping off a shopping bag containing the melon. It was placed with surplus food that was later picked up by jail staffers. Plaza Super Jet workers called and alerted the jail after they looked at the video. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Friday Saturday 
IN BRIEF 
A blood drive will be held at 11 
a.m. today in the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. To register, call 574-631-6100. 
Daily Mass will be held at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart today at 11:30 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. 
A seminar titled “Bridging Majors” will be held today at 
6:30 p.m. The seminar will be held in 135 Spes Unica Hall at Saint Mary’s College. 
The Richard Alston Dance Company will be performing at 7 
p.m. today. The performance will take place in the Decio Mainstage Theatre in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. For tick­ets, call 574-631-2800. 
“The Greatest Silence: Rape in the Congo” will be presented in the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 7 p.m. today. For tick­ets, call 574-631-2800. 
The film “La Graine et le mulet” (“The Secret of the Grain”) will be shown as part of the French Film Festival today at 7 p.m. The film will be shown in the Student Center at Saint Mary’s College. 
A panel titled “Black Collar Workers; A Forum of Labor, Race and the Recession” will begin at 7 p.m. today in Andrews Auditorium in Geddes Hall. 
“Men who Stare at Goats” will be presented by the Student Union Board at 10 p.m. today in 101 DeBartolo Hall. Admission is $3. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 


Sunday Monday 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 

HIGH 

CORRECTIONS 

33 HIGH 27 HIGH 33 HIGH 30 HIGH 25 HIGH 23 
The Observer regards itself as a professional 
publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so 
we can correct our error. 

Atlanta 50 / 36 Boston 39 / 21 Chicago 42 / 25 Denver 44 / 19 Houston 51 / 45 Los Angeles 58 / 51 Minneapolis 32 / 17 
New York 41 / 26 Philadelphia 41 / 26 Phoenix 67 / 50 Seattle 51 / 39 St. Louis 44 / 29 Tampa 76 / 54 Washington 42 / 29 
Thursday, February 4, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Class of 2010 picks legacy gift 
By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Last year, students and alum­ni signed a petition asking for renovations and improvements to the Hesburgh Library. Next year, their cause will get some added help in the form of the Class of 2010’s Senior Legacy fund, which will go towards purchasing new books for the library. 
Every year, the Student Development Committee (SDC) chooses the beneficiary of the Senior Legacy fund. The 20­member committee asks for suggestions from the senior class, then narrows these down to the three choices they believe would have the most impact on the university. 
This year, the three choices were a fund for the library, a fund to assist seniors in travel­ing to job or graduate school interviews and a study abroad fund to help low-income stu­dents that want to study in a foreign country but cannot afford it. Students voted, and the library fund won out. 
Senior Emily Everett, SDC co-chair, said the best part of the library fund is that it will bene­fit every student at Notre Dame since the library is such a wide­ly used and versatile resource. 
“I think it’s a gift that benefits every student,” Everett said. “Every student goes to the library at some point during their career so I think it’s a gift that will benefit everyone at addition to the petition that was circulated about library collec­tions falling behind some of our peer institu­tions, so I think that kept it in a lot of people’s minds,” Secviar said. 


Fundraising will start in March. Every senior will get a letter and a call from Notre Dame’s Call 
“Every student goes to the library at some point during their career so I think it’s a gift that will beneft everyone at Notre Dame.” 
Emily Everett co-chair Student Development Committee 
Center asking for a donation. The Web site supporting.nd.edu/seniorlegacy can be used to donate to the Senior Legacy. 
Additionally, the Class of 2010 is expected to continue to give to the library fund each year so the library can improve even more. 
An added incentive to help the library through the Senior Legacy fund is that only stu­dents who do so can be entered in the 2011 football ticket lot­tery. They will have to give a gift by Dec. 31, 2010 to make it into the lottery. 
An additional goal of the SDC with regards to this year’s Senior Legacy is to reach a 100 percent giving rate, where every member of the Class of 
Secviar said. 
every senior participated, it would send a positive mes­sage to the Notre Dame community. 
“It’d just be a great statement to make, to say that 100 per­cent of seniors felt compelled enough to give back to some­thing as impor­tant as our University library,” 

Even if the Class of 2010 falls short of full participation, the Senior Legacy is still a great way to make an impact on the University, according to Secviar. 
“The cool thing about senior legacy is it’s a way to leave a mark before you ever leave campus,” Secviar said. 
Everett emphasized the importance of helping the University grow, especially since the University has helped seniors so much throughout their time here. 
“The school has given us so much and now it’s our turn to give back to them,” Everett said. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 




GPA requirements raised for elections 

Standards increase for candidates running for officer positions in student government 

Notre Dame.” 
This year’s senior class is the first one to choose to donate their Senior Legacy funds to the library. Senior Ian Secviar, SDC co-chair, said the recent peti­tion was likely a key reason why seniors chose the library fund over one of the other two choices. 
“Part of it was the publicity about the library renovation in 2010 makes a donation. 
Secviar said even though Notre Dame ranks high in alumni giving, they do not fare quite so well in the area of sen­ior giving. 
“Ideally, we’d like to be up with the Ivy Leagues in terms of senior giving,” Secviar said. 
The SDC is trying very hard to achieve this 100 percent giv­ing rate, and Secviar said if 
By MEGHAN PRICE 
News Writer 
Board members discussed the upcoming elections for student boards at last night’s meeting of the Saint Mary’s Student Government Association (SGA). 
Jenny Hoffman, student body president, said elections will be held the weeks before and after spring break. Students will be voting for the SGA various offices including student body officers and class officers. 
In preparation for the elec­tions, the board reviewed the bylaws for running for office. In the past the policy had been that students must have a cumulative GPA of 2.5 to run for office. 
“The average GPA at Saint Mary is significantly higher,” Hoffman said. “It is as if this policy is saying that it is okay for our officers and representa­tives to be below average.” 
Hoffman also said it was a requirement that the candidate has never been on academic probation. Emily Skittish, the SGA executive secretary, had requested the information from the college and found the aver­age GPA in most departments was a 3.3. 
After discussing the issue, the SGA board passed a motion to raise the requirement. The board voted unanimously to raise the minimum GPA to 3.0. 
“This is important because these positions takes up a lot of an elected student’s time,” Megan Griffin, student body vice president said. “It is very common that after being elect­ed, their GPA will drop a little, so they should have a higher beginning point so they won’t fall under academic proba­tion.” 
Whether or not this higher standard affects the number of students who will be running cannot be known before the pre-election meetings start. Allison Meeks, the elections commissioner, is organizing informational meetings about running for office, which will take place within the next two weeks. 
Meeks said there would be flyers around campus next week, giving dates and times to interested students. At these meetings, students will be informed of election policies and what the process will entail. 
Contact Meghan Price at mprice02@saintmarys.edu 



Shakespeare honored in Sonnet Fest 2010 
at Notre Dame and the 
Special to The Observer 
Department of English, the 
All of William event will feature readings by Shakespeare’s 154 sonnets Notre Dame President Rev. will be read aloud by John I. Jenkins, C.S.C., University of Notre Dame Provost Thomas Burish and administrators, faculty and John McGreevy, I.A. 
students during “Sonnet Fest 2010,” a public event that will take place Feb. 10 (Wednesday) from 11 a.m. to 3 p.m. in the Great Hall of O’Shaughnessy Hall on the Notre Dame campus. 
“We want people to hear the beauty and power of Shakespeare’s verse,” said Peter Holland, 
“We want people to hear the beauty and power of Shakespeare’s verse.” 
Peter Holland McMeel Family Professor Shakespeare Studies 
O’Shaughnessy Dean of the College of Arts and Letters. 
Shakespeare at Notre Dame is comprised of the Notre Dame Sh akespeare Festival, Notre Dame’s profes ­sional theater in residence; the McMeel Family Chair in Sh akespeare Studies; and Actors From The London Stage, a 
McMeel professional touring residen-
Family Professor in Shakespeare Studies, “stop­ping as they pass by to enjoy the sound of such wonderful language.” 
Sponsored by Shakespeare cy experience. The mission of Shakespeare at Notre Dame is to establish the University nationally and internationally as a center for the study of Shakespeare in performance. 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 4, 2010 

MSA a ‘well received’ club at Notre Dame 
President says club has never had problems with events, activities despite being a minority 

such as the enhancement of the 

By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
prayer room in the Coleman-
News Writer 

Morse Center. It now better suits Muslim needs and Although Notre Dame is a includes a special section predominantly Catholic univer-where Muslim students can sity, students of other religions take ablutions before they pray. are active in forming groups He also said Fr. Theodore and communities to worship Hesburgh, University president and share their experiences. emeritus, often attends MSA One such group is Notre Dame’s events and has told the club Muslim Student they are wel-

A s s o c i a t i o n (MSA). According to  “I can’t think of any occasion where the  come and appreciated on campus.  
A k m a l Niyazmatov, the club’s current president, of the  MSA had diffculty functioning as a Muslim student club  “Fr. Hesburgh is a frequent guest at many MSA activities,”  
a pp r o x i m a t e l y  at Notre Dame.”  N i y a z m a t o v  
40 Muslim stu­ said. “He always  
dents attending Notre Dame, about 25 are  Akmal Niyazmatov president  emphasizes that Notre Dame welcomes us  
active club mem- Muslim Student  and is ready to  
bers.  Association  work with us to  
The  MSA  a c c o m m o d a t e  
serves  as  men­ us  in  the best  

tors to local Muslim youth and possible manner.” gathers to celebrate religious The MSA also has high hopes and cultural holidays. MSA club for dialogue and interaction members are also active at a between Muslim and non­local mosque, the Islamic Muslim students, particularly Society of with regards to 
Michiana (ISM) mosque, and are currently plan­ “I think we can learn a lot of things from  coming together to find solutions to today’s major  
ning a book drive  each other. We  issues.  
that will benefit the ISM  shouldn’t focus on  “I can  think learn a  we lot  
mosque’s  new  differences between  of things from  
library.  They  us.”  each  other,”  
hope to collect at  N i y a z m a t o v  
least 50 books. Niyazmatov, a law student at  Akmal Niyazmatov president  said. “We shouldn’t focus on differences  
Notre Dame, said  Muslim Student  between  us.  
the MSA has never experi- Association  There countless  are com­ 
enced problems  mon  grounds  

with running the club or stag-that bring us all together that ing activities, despite their sta-can serve as a valuable point of tus as a religious minority on convergence to start working campus. on pressing global problems.” 
“I can’t think of any occasion The MSA has several events where the MSA had difficulty coming up, including speaking functioning as a Muslim student engagements at Culver club at Notre Dame,” Academy, a private school Niyazmatov said. “On the con-approximately an hour away trary, we’re very well received from South Bend, and an Islam and accommodated here.” Awareness Day that is still in 
Niyazmatov said arrange-the planning stages. ments have been made on cam­pus to accommodate Muslim Contact Irena Zajickova at students’ religious practices, izajicko@nd.edu 





World & Nation 
Thursday, February 4, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 


Mexico starts planting GM corn 
MEXICO CITY — Capping a decade-long battle, private companies in Mexico have begun the first legal plantings of genetically modified corn, the Agriculture Department said Wednesday. 
Environmentalists and farm groups announced they have filed an appeal with the Inter-American Human Rights Commission, arguing the government has been unwilling or unable to halt the illicit spread of GM crops in Mexico, the birthplace of corn. 
They say the government shouldn’t author­ize legal plantings until it investigates con­tamination from past, illicit biotech planting. 

Sculpture sells for record $104m in UK 
LONDON — A life-size bronze sculpture of a man by Alberto Giacometti was sold Wednesday at a London auction for 65 mil­lion pounds ($104.3 million) — a world record for the most expensive work of art ever sold at auction, Sotheby’s auction house said. 
It took just eight minutes of furious bid­ding for more than ten bidders to reach the hammer price for “L’Homme Qui Marche I” (Walking Man I), which opened at 12 million pounds, Sotheby’s said. 
The sculpture by the 20th century Swiss artist, considered an iconic Giacometti work as well as one of the most recognizable images of modern art, was sold to an anony­mous bidder by telephone, the auction house said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 


Dallas-Seattle flight diverted to OKC 
OKLAHOMA CITY — An American Airlines flight from Dallas to Seattle was diverted to Oklahoma City and landed without trouble Wednesday after passengers and crew heard "kind of a bang" and the plane lost cabin pressure, officials and passengers said. 
Flight 621 had just reached its 30,000 foot cruising altitude and was about 70 miles north of Dallas-Fort Worth Airport when the incident began, said Federal Aviation Administration spokesman Lynn Lunsford in Fort Worth, Texas. The plane landed at Will Rogers World Airport shortly after 11:30 a.m. 
No injuries were reported. The plane suf­fered a mechanical issue and the incident was not terrorism-related, according to an administration official in Washington, D.C., who spoke on condition of anonymity because the official was not authorized to speak publicly. 

NM gov. wants vote on domestic partners 
SANTA FE, — New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson is pushing for a vote by all state senators on a proposal to allow domestic partnerships. 
Richardson said Wednesday he doesn’t want the bill to get bottled up in a Senate committee this session. The bill has cleared one committee but needs to get through two more to reach the Senate floor. 
Richardson said at a news conference that all senators should have a chance to vote because domestic partnerships repre­sent an important civil rights issue. The Senate rejected the measure last year. 
LOCAL NEWS 


IU med. school to reduce enrollment 
INDIANAPOLIS — The Indiana University School of Medicine plans to reduce the number of new students it admits next year in response to state funding cuts, a move that could make the state’s doctor shortage worse. 
The cut would follow years of growing medical classes. 
With 1,256 students enrolled last year, IU was the nation’s second-largest medical school behind the University of Illinois. The school in downtown Indianapolis has historically accepted 280 new stu­dents each year, but that was gradually increased to 322 in response to expected physician short­ages, The Indianapolis Star reported Wednesday. 


Glitches,delaysplagueborderfence 
Washington orders reassessment, looks to cut $189 million in funding from project 
Associated Press 

PHOENIX — An ambi­tious, $6.7 billion govern­ment project to secure nearly the entire Mexican border with a “virtual fence” of cameras, ground sensors and radar is in jeopardy after a string of technical glitches and delays. 
Having spent $672 million so far with little to show for it, Washington has ordered a reassessment of the whole idea. The outlook became gloomier this week when President Barack Obama proposed cutting $189 mil­lion from the venture. 
Ultimately, the project could be scaled back dra­matically, with the govern­ment installing virtual fences along a few segments of the nation’s 2,000-mile southern boundary but dropping plans for any fur­ther expansion, officials said. 
“The worst that happens is that we have a system which gives us some value but we conclude that it’s not worth buying any more of it,” said Mark Borkowski, the government’s director of the project at U.S. Customs and Border Protection. 
The first permanent seg­ment of virtual fence — a 23-mile stretch near Sasabe, Ariz. — was sup­posed to be turned over to the Border Patrol by the main contractor, Boeing Co., for testing in January, but the handover has been delayed by problems involv­ing the video recording equipment. 
The Bush administration launched the project in 2005 to help secure the bor­der against illegal immi­grants, drug smugglers and other intruders. It was con­ceived as another layer of protection, in addition to thousands of Border Patrol agents and 650 miles of real fences. 
The system was supposed to let a small number of dis­patchers watch the border on a computer monitor, zoom in with cameras to see people crossing, and decide whether to send Border Patrol agents to the scene. Although there are sensors, cameras and radar at many points along the border, they are not con­nected to cover large expanses. 

Originally, the virtual fence was supposed to be completed by 2011; that date has slipped to 2014, largely because of technical problems. 
Among other things, the radar system had trouble distinguishing between veg­etation and people when it was windy. Also, the satel­lite communication system took too long to relay infor­mation in the field to a com­mand center. By the time an operator moved a camera to take a closer look at a spot, whatever had raised suspi­cion was gone. 
The Homeland Security Department and Boeing said the early problems were fixed, but other glitch­es keep popping up. The lat­est: a software bug that causes video recording devices to lock on to the wrong cameras, hindering agents trying to collect evi­dence against illegal bor­der-crossers. 
The government is trying to negotiate a deal with Boeing to let the Border Patrol begin using the first permanent stretch of virtual fence at night while the contractor is still working on it. Otherwise, the Border Patrol might have to wait until late summer or early fall to take control of the section. 
In ordering a reassess­ment of the project on Jan. 8, Homeland Security Secretary Janet Napolitano said that the delays were unacceptable and that the government needs to con­sider more efficient and economical options. She did not elaborate. 
“Americans need border security now — not 10 years down the road,” Napolitano said. 
As for the possibility of the project being scaled back by government offi­cials, Tim Peters, a Boeing vice president, said: “They really need to come up with the right calculus, and we’ll support that answer and look to be their preferred contractor to build whatev­er portion of what that cal­culus is.” 
AUSTRALIA 


MinisterblockssuspiciousshipmentstoIran 
Associated Press 

SYDNEY — Australia recently blocked several export shipments to Iran because of concern the cargo may have been destined for Tehran’s nuclear weapons pro­grams, Prime Minister Kevin Rudd said Thursday. 
The bans were ordered by the defense minister under laws aimed at preventing the proliferation of material that could be used in weapons of mass destruction. 
“In the case of Iran, the defense minister has on a number of occa­sions — I’m advised three — exer­cised his power under the act and has done so entirely appropriately,” Rudd told Australian Broadcasting Corp. radio. 
Rudd declined to say what the material in the shipments was, or give details about when they were blocked. 
The Australian newspaper first reported the blocked shipments and said one of them was understood to include pumps that could have been used to cool nuclear power plants. The report said there were up to three other shipments — one more than Rudd mentioned — but that no details were known about them. 
Australia has imposed various trade sanctions on Iran as part of U.N. efforts to persuade the Middle East country to end its nuclear pro­grams. 
Rudd said that Iran’s nuclear ambitions posed a threat to global peace and international pressure must continue to convince Tehran to abandon them. 
“If you look at the status of Iran’s nuclear weapons program and their consistent thumbing of the nose to the International Atomic Energy Agency, the international community more broadly and the continuation of their nuclear weapons program despite international condemnation, there are no alternatives other than to maintain a hard line,” he said. 

page 6 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Thursday, February 4, 2010 
The Observer 



Business
Thursday, February 4, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Yahoo sells HotJobs for $225m 
SAN FRANCISCO — Yahoo Inc. crossed off another chore on its housecleaning list Wednesday with the proposed sale of online help-wanted site HotJobs to rival Monster Worldwide Inc. for $225 million. 
The all-cash deal marks another step in Yahoo CEO Carol Bartz’s effort to jettison services that have been struggling or don’t fit with the Internet company’s efforts to focus more on its news, entertainment and communications fea­tures. 
Yahoo already has closed several unprofitable services and last month agreed to sell e-mail provider Zimbra to VMWare Inc. for an undis­closed amount. 
HotJobs’ sale price reflects how far it has fall­en since Yahoo bought it for $439 million in cash and stock nearly eight years ago. In an ironic twist, Yahoo had to outbid Monster.com’s holding company to buy HotJobs. 
As often happens in acquisitions, HotJobs’ cul­ture quickly clashed with Yahoo’s, said Marc Cendella, a former HotJobs executive who now runs another online recruitment service, TheLadders.com. He said nine of HotJobs’ top 11 executives left within six months of Yahoo’s takeover. 

Delta closing Cincinnati crew base 
ATLANTA — Delta Air Lines is expected to move more aircraft to the Pacific Northwest to handle service to Asia as it continues to shuffle the departure points for its international flying to adjust its network to demand. 
The world’s biggest airline told pilots last week that its Boeing 767ER crew base at the Cincinnati airport will likely close sometime in 2010, barring a change in network strategy. 
A company memo and a memo from union representatives to members does not make clear how that might affect Delta’s service from that airport to Paris, the only international des­tination outside of North America that Delta currently serves nonstop from Cincinnati. 
A spokeswoman said the Paris service from Cincinnati will continue, possibly by bringing crews from other bases to fly the route. 
Delta also offers nonstop flights from Cincinnati to points in Mexico and Canada. 
A crew-base closure in Cincinnati would affect 225 pilots. 


Boeing tests inside of new 787 
Company hopes changes will add up to strong passenger demand for new planes 
Associated Press  
EVERETT, Wash. —  
Boeing Co. designers and  
marketers are betting that  
a lot of subtle changes in  
the interior of their new  
787 jetliner will add up to  
strong passenger demand  
to fly on the plane.  
Boeing Commercial  
Airplanes on Wednesday  
showed off the first 787  
with a passenger cabin  
installed. The plane, the  
third 787 to be built, is  
among six that Boeing is  
using in its flight test pro­ 
gram this year.  
While the other aircraft  
will test flight characteris­ 
tics and aircraft strength,  
this plane, scheduled to fly  
later this month, is dedi­ 
cated to cabin features  
and safety — the “passen­ 
ger experience” as Boeing  
describes it. Everything on  
board, from the ventilation  
system to the coffee pots,  
must be certified by the  
Federal Aviation  
Administration before  
787s can go into passenger  
service.  
Bigger windows that are  
dimmed electronically,  
mood lighting, more spa­ 
cious lavatories and other AP  
features all were carefully Kent Craver, Boeing Co.’s regional director for passenger satisfaction and revenue, shows off the  
chosen to please passen­passenger cabin of the first Boeing 787 with the interior installed in Everett,Wash.,Wednesday.  
gers, said Tom  
Galantowicz, the compa­ business-class passengers  were fascinated, while  after a flight, designers  
ny’s director of 787 interi­ for those flights, said Kent  experienced, economy- said.  
ors. Among the “very sim- Craver, Boeing’s regional  class passengers said they  Boeing officials say many  
ple things,” he said, are  director for passenger sat- wanted “no one in the seat  of these features could be  
more convenient latches  isfaction and revenue.  next to them, and they  adopted in their other  
on the larger overhead  “Business passengers  slept all the way.”  models, including the 737.  
baggage bins.  tend to chase the aircraft  The 787, with its higher  The test plane is spar- 
The bins, which swing  equipment they like and  ceilings and more space  tan, with only economy- 
up and away, also allow  they will actively seek out  just inside the doors, pres- class seats and its midsec­ 
more headroom.  those aircraft types,” he  ents “an architectural wel­ tion filled with nine racks  
Lavatories have imitation  said.  come” for passengers who  of electronics and worksta­ 
tile floors and toilet seats  Boeing undertook an  have just endured a  tions for engineers.  
that close electronically —  unprecedented global  cramped, crowded jetway,  Orange test wires run  
no need to touch should  study of airline passengers  Emery said.  throughout the cabin and  
the previous occupant  to see what they liked, said  The cabin’s LED lights  several windows have  
thoughtlessly leave it up.  Blake Emery, Boeing’s  have a full range of colors,  been replaced with test  
The initial 787-8 model  director of differentiation  with airlines able to pick  instruments.  
will carry 210 to 250 pas- strategy.  different lighting schemes  Besides making sure all  
sengers on routes of up to  “We were looking for the  during the flight, including  the passenger comforts  
9,400 miles, such as New  deep psychological needs  a sky blue while boarding  work, the jet will test cabin  
York to Hong Kong.  that people have when  and “warm lighting” to  safety systems, including  
Aircraft comfort becomes  they’re inside an air- make the food look better.  oxygen masks, evacuation  
important on such long  plane,” he said.  Cabin pressure is lower  slides and methods of  
flights.  The research, Emery  than in earlier aircraft,  fighting onboard fires, said  
Airlines especially want  said, found that people  which should make people  Derek Muncy, a flight test  
to attract higher-paying  making their first flight  feel better during and  engineer.  


Senate close to deal on credit for new hires 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — Key Democrats and Republicans neared agreement Wednesday on plans to give busi­nesses a tax break for hiring unem­ployed workers, a rare glimmer of bipartisanship in Congress that could hand President Barack Obama a badly needed political vic­tory. 
The measure is an alternative to Obama’s proposed tax cut of up to $5,000 for each new worker that employers hire. Obama’s plan ran into opposition from some House Democrats skeptical whether employers will hire because of a tax break. 
The Senate alternative would exempt companies from paying the employer’s share of Social Security payroll taxes for new workers hired this year, as long as those people had been unemployed at least 60 days. It could pass the Senate as early as next week. 
Both measures are aimed at pro­viding private businesses an incen­tive to hire some of the 7 million Americans who have lost their jobs in the recession. 
Senate leaders plan to unveil their jobs bill Thursday and vote on it as early as next week. Even though their plan differs from Obama’s, passage would be a boost to the president as he tries to renew his administration’s efforts to reduce unemployment in the run-up to congressional elections in November. 
Senate passage would be a break­through for bipartisanship in a chamber that has been split sharply along party lines on many impor­tant votes. It would also put House Democrats on the spot to help Obama. Some House Democrats have been wary of the jobs tax credit because they doubt it would be effective and they question whether it would be open to fraud. 
The Senate plan is modeled after a proposal by Democratic Sen. Chuck Schumer of New York and Republican Sen. Orrin Hatch of Utah. It would save companies 6.2 percent of the new workers’ salaries that are subject to Social Security taxes, and would cost about $11 billion over 10 years, according to updated estimates. 

page 8 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, February 4, 2010 
Concert 
continued from page 1 
Mary’s and Notre Dame, including Bellacappella, The Undertones and Harmonia. 
“We wanted an event that students could enjoy, so we decided on asking some of the a cappella groups to perform,” Peterson said. 
The night began with Harmonia, Notre Dame’s only all-female a cappella group. The ladies performed many songs including “Galileo” and a mash-up of Black-Eyed Peas, “I Got a Feeling” and Kelly Clarkson’s “My Life Would Suck Without You.” 
Bellacappella took the stage next. They were wearing black dresses with red and yellow accessories. 
They are the colors of Uganda and we wanted to show our support for this cause and for the children of Uganda,” Bellacappella mem­ber Krystina Harcourt said. 
Bellacappella member senior Lauren Theiss had the opportu­nity to travel to Uganda and to witness the conditions in the country and how the children are living. She was energetic about this great concert and how it will benefit the children in Uganda. 
“This concert means a lot to us. Thank you for opening your hearts and giving back to these children,” Theiss said. 
To close, The Undertones not only brought some laughs dur­ing their set; they also per­formed a new song for the group, “Come on Get Higher” by Matt Nathanson. 
After a night of music and entertainment from all three a cappella groups, with the help of the students, SAB was able to raise approximately $300 to help the children in Uganda. 
Contact Carolynn Smith at csmith02@saintmarys.edu 



Debate 
continued from page 1 

about the South Bend commu­nity, each ticket touched on safetyandcommunityrelations. 
“We wanttostart witha block partyin EddyStreetCommons,” Soler said. “We want to get neighbors, students and local merchantsinvolved.” 
She said her ticket also wants to work with the city’s Chamber of Commerce to have a South Bend street fair for students andresidentsofthecity. 
Noel and Corona said they hope to have benefit concerts that include the University and the community, andtheyplan to host dinners for community members with athletes and the administration. 
Noel also said student safety willbea priorityfortheticket. 
“During the night there have been many assaults recently in dark areas. We want to try to improvethis,”Coronasaid. 
Soler said her ticket has plans to address campus safety as well, and plans to continue the weekend Transpo bus route established this year by student body president Grant Schmidt and vice president Cynthia Weber. She said her ticket would also like to work withthe Office of Alcohol and Drug Education to find a solution to help students deal with danger­oussituationsinvolvingalcohol. 
“We feel this is an important issue because it happens every weekend,”Bellsaid. 
Ledet and Alvare said alcohol awareness is a focus of their ticket as well, whichis whythey are pushing for a University­sponsoredalcoholassessment. 
“First weekend, they University is going to provide us with alcohol in a contained environment where everyone can have alcohol screening as they test their limits,” Alvare said. “It will make things a lot safer.” 
An audience member asked the candidates how they plan to approach the issue of adding sexual orientation to the University’s non-discrimination clause. The Soler-Bell ticket and Noel-Corona ticket each said the addition of the clause would be a focus during their time in office. 
“We can’t discriminate against anyone for who they are,” Noelsaid. 
Bell said his ticket will take “tangible steps” to see the addi­tion to the clause continues to be pursued in student govern­ment. 
“We see it as amajor problem that students don’tfeel welcome here,” Bell said. “We want a task force formed just for that issue, similar to the task force that formed the [Committee on SexualAssaultPrevention].” 
An audience question also asked the candidates to address how they would improve pep rallies. 
As a former football player, Noel said he felt disconnected from the student body at pep rallies when the team wassepa­ratedfrom thestudents. 
“We want to have those pep rallies where the students are all close together,” he said. “Thosehaveintensity.” 
Soler said her ticket also hopes to return to more stu­dent-orientedpeprallies. 
“Our first order of business would be to sit down and talk withGame DayOperations, who runs the pep rallies and voice the dissatisfaction of student body,” Bell said. “The pep ral­lies at Irish Green just aren’t student friendly. We want to put thefocus backonstudents.” 
Elections for student body president and vice president will be held Monday from 8 
a.m. to 8 p.m. If necessary, a run-off debate is scheduled for Feb. 10 and run-off elections, Feb.11. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

PAT COVENEY/ The Observer Student body president and vice president candidates Eras Noel and JulianCorona (top), Andrew Bell and Catherine Soler (middle) and Peter Ledet andGabe Alvare (bottom) debate on campus issues at LaFortune Wednesday. 



Park 
continued from page 1 
Unlimited Juice is an upstart business also based in Innovation Park. 
“When choosing an MBA pro­gram, it was essential that I find a place conducive to the launch and continued growth of my business,” Landon Spitalnik, founder and MBA candidate at Notre Dame, said. “The resources offered through Innovation Park at Notre Dame afford me just such an opportunity.” 
Unlimited Juice, which is housed in the greenhouse space at Innovation Park, develops technol­ogy that will use environmentally friendlymethods to extendthe bat­tery life of consumer electronic devices. 
“The easy version is toimagine a case for your iPhone that is solar powered,” Spitalnik said, referring tothefirstproductthathehopesto market. 
Innovation Park assists Spitalnik and its other clients with the stops of forming asuccessful business — from manufacturing to warehous­ing,fromcustomerservicetoback­officeoperations,saidSpitalnik. 
“As we launch the business, I hope to serve as an example of how a successful partnership with Innovation Park can help commer­cialize a new product and develop anewbusiness,”hesaid. 
“What the community wants to hear is what is going to be the job impact,”saidBrockman. 
Both Spitalnik and Brockman said they hope their ventures will someday enrich the South Bend communitybyprovidingjobs. 


“I truly envision a number of ways small and large that our products and our company can engender positive change in the community and the world,” Spitalniksaid. 
The purpose and mission of the 55,000 square-foot Innovation Park, which opened late lastfall, is “to facilitate the transformation of innovationsintoviablemarketplace ventures.” 
“The Park is designed to serve a variety of businesses in various stages of development,” Brenner said. “This includes ventures with expected commercial applications from core Notre Dame research areas as well as ventures that can benefit from access to expertise and resources available through thePark.” 
Inadditionto the manynetwork­ing benefits provided by the Park’s proximity to Notre Dame, it also offers “an environment conducive to innovative thinking, collabora­tion and business growth,” Brennersaid. 
Brenner also said the Park’s commercial setting will be an advantage for University students andfaculty. 
“Innovation Park is designed to support real-world, commercial entities that want to focus on solv­ing real problems, not textbook issues,”hesaid. 
Students will also be able to par­ticipate in research and business withInnovationPark’sclients. 
“We expect that students will be a vital resource for client compa­nies here in the Park,” Brenner said. “Our hope is that the compa­nieslocatedintheParkwillconsid­er engaging students as interns during the school year and sum­merwheneverpossible.” 
Contact Laura Knauf at lknauf@nd.edu 



Career 
continued from page 1 
about possible internships, but was hoping to find one closer to his home in south­ern California. 
“My parents work for Raytheon,” he said. “I would like to try to find a way in to the company possibly.” 
While many underclassmen that attended the Fair were focused on finding intern­ships, other attendees at the Fair were more focused on finding jobs for after gradua­tion. Senior KeriAnn Hopkins, a senior Economics and English double major said she went to the Fair to speak with a specific company she knew was at the Fair about a job opportunity. 
“I wanted to drop a résumé off with one company,” she said. “I don’t have any major expectations, but it was nice to have the chance to attend this event.” 
Graduate students and MBA students also went to the Fair in hopes of finding career placement. 
2010 MBA candidate Adrian Love said he spoke with six different companies at the event. 
“I am looking for more full time opportunities that are available for MBAs,” he said. 
In addition to looking for full time employment and summer internships, some students went to the Fair to reconnect with contacts they made at prior events. 
Senior political science major Jamie Schulte said she went to the Fair to speak with a representative from a spe­cific service organization. 
“I met a representative at the Post Graduation Service Fair in the fall from the Mercy Home for Boys and Girls in Chicago,” she said. 
Schulte said she had not yet applied for the program but she was meeting with the representative to check back in with her and ask some questions about the opportu­nity. 
In order to prepare for the Fair, many students worked closely with the Career Center to refine their resumes and interviewing skills. 
Hopkins said she attended a networking event prior to attending the Fair. 
“I went to the Economics Club Meet and Greet this morning to make contacts before I went to the Fair,” she said. 
Love also utilized the Career Center’s resources. 
“I spoke with a career advi­sor prior to attending the Fair,” he said. 
The 2010 Winter Career and Internship Fair was the second employment fair Notre Dame hosted during the school year. The first took place in the fall, which was also well attended. 

Contact Liz O’Donnell at eodonne1@nd.edu 

Thursday, February 4, 2010 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 9 



Rodeo canceled due to budget cuts 

Associated Press 
McALESTER, Okla.— Cowboys are the latest victims of Oklahoma’s budget woes. 
For the first time in nearly 70 years, Oklahoma’s annual prison rodeo has been canceled 
— hurting business owners, disappointing tourists and stealing the rodeo-riding dreams from penitentiary-bound participants. 
Gone is the financial bonanza generated from motel stays, ticket sales and souvenirs. 
“It’s a tremendous loss,” lamented Terry Crenshaw, a warden’s assistant who grew up four blocks from the prison and used to ride to the rodeos on his horse to obtain free admission. 
Without looking at a calen­dar, the 18,000 residents here know when it’s rodeo time at the Oklahoma State Penitentiary: Motels are booked solid, restaurants bustle and traffic along downtown’s main drag slows to a crawl. 
Up to 15,000 visitors typically pour in — they came from 15 states last year — and foreign documentary film crews and freelance photographers are commonplace as inmates test their skills with amateurs and professionals from beyond the walls. 
Inmates grow equally excited, and are eager to strut their stuff in front of their sweet­hearts, some who traveled hun­dreds of miles to see them. Out of the 1,000 inmates at McAlester, only about 100 make the show ring. 

Even though the rodeo can bring hundreds of thousands of dollars to McAlester business­es, the $120,000 or so needed to stage the games was deemed a luxury as Oklahoma struggles with an expected 20 percent drop in revenue. Already the state has cut social programs and a handful of agencies are using furloughs to trim their spending plans. 
At the prison, rodeo overtime alone cost $30,000 last year, and preparing the arena on the expansive prison grounds took at least $25,000. 
On Wednesday, Crenshaw showed off the haggard rodeo arena. The field was a soggy mess, the blue paint on the bleachers flaking. The lack of maintenance was evident. 
Inmate Nicholas Hand, a skinny 28-year-old with tattoos on one arm and a buzz haircut, is in for selling marijuana, and credits the four seconds he spent on a bucking bull with changing his life. 
“I used to sell weed and do tattoos, and now I’m looking forward to jumping on a bull and hanging on,” said Hand, two weeks away from parole and maybe a new career on the professional riding circuit. 
Some small businesses along the main drag in town had yet to find out that this August’s rodeo was off. 


The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 10 Thursday, February 4, 2010 
THE OBSERVER Winter 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 


ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Doug Farmer Alicia Smith Michael Blasco Sam Stryker Megan Finneran Graphics Scene Andrea Archer Alex Kilpatrick Viewpoint Lauren Brauweiler 
I cannot stand the cold. 
Whenever I announce this — in a furious, despondent tone, typically — I am reminded by my friends that I am the son of a northern climate — that I came of age, like most of 
Dan Sportiello 
us, hoping each morning for the glory of a snow Bound day. Trust me: Variables this is irrelevant. It is a daily out­rage to walk outside and feel the cold wind against my face, fighting my every step, working its way inside my coat and clothes and even my very joints. The long walk from Joyce Lot to Malloy Hall is, each and every morning, an argument to stay in bed. 
I do not say this to complain. But the truth is that the cold has become, to me, more than itself. It has come to symbolize — no, embody — the whole force of winter, its darkness and duration and lack of college foot­ball. More, the cold has come to embody my frustrations, my regrets: in the whistling of the winter wind is every hour I have ever wasted, every opportunity I have ever missed, every excuse I have ever made. The wind carries on its breath the reminder of sullen compromises — of mediocre term papers, of overbearing bosses, of betrayed friends and lovers. It is the echo of struggle and failure, the chorus of all the girls who got away. It is everything malevolent in my life, all rolled into one. 
I do not say this to complain: I have, to a certain degree, come to embrace the cold — to welcome it as a chal­lenge, to see in it the opportunity to prove myself against all those failures that haunt my dreams. Every morn­ing, when I wake and walk outside and feel the cold wind against my face, it is as though I have been given a second chance — to write that paper the way it should have been written, to embrace what that city had to offer, to tell that girl how I really felt about her. To get on that flight across the ocean. To be the son, friend, and lover that I should have been in the first place. Every morn­ing, the cold wind whispers the prom­ise that I can change it, that I can change all of it — that I can remake myself, if only I am strong enough to brave the South Bend winter. 
I have said that the cold has come to embody everything malevolent in my life. This is a metaphor, but only barely: there are times when, walking through the frozen night, I have almost convinced myself that this redemptive possibility is more than delusion born of a nostalgic personal­ity and Vitamin D deficiency — that, in looking winter in the eye, I really can make that qualifying time, really can write that novel, really can find the confidence to show kindness to those people back when it still mat­tered. That I can change all of these things, even though they are a decade past and more. 
Obviously, this is absurd. 
The hard truth is that the winter wind does not hold the promise of redemption. The regrets that haunt my dreams cannot be obviated by courage found after the fact, no mat­ter how monumental. What is done is done — and what undone, undone. I am what I have made myself. 
This is a hard lesson, and accepting it takes real courage. But there is a lesson yet harder: I am what I have made myself, but I have made myself what I am because of what I was. Regret is a deeply human thing — because regret is easy: how different­ly I would act, I tell the indifferent night, if only I had it all to do over again! But I know deep down that, if I really had it all to do over again — if I were really back there, burdened with the same naiveté and insecuri­ties, the same hopes and fears — I would do it all exactly the same. 
There are some philosophers who suggest that this realization makes regret easier to bear. I cannot for the life of me see how that could be. But it is, at any rate, the real lesson of winter. 
It is easy to be happy in the summer 
— to run beneath the hot sun up the steps of the art museum, to reach the summit and pump both fists into the air. To race ahead of the past and its tireless regrets — to forget them, and live in the warm light of the present. But winter always comes again. To fight the cold on its own terms — to stare regret in the face, unblinking, and nonetheless to go on living — would be something like enlighten­ment. Winter offers it, if only I can find the strength to take it. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his sec­ond year of the Ph.D. program in phi­losophy. Listen to his radio show on WVFI every Sunday at 4 p.m. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 



A shovel-ready project 
Quoting Tim Ramer’s letter to Voice of the People, on Sunday, Jan. 31: “Why is it that nothing is done to South Bend resi­dents who refuse to shovel the sidewalks in front of their homes? 
At a recent meeting of the Community/Campus Advisory Coalition, on Jan. 27, I asked this same question why off-campus student housing rarely have sidewalks and driveways shoveled. In attendance were representatives from the colleges, City of South Bend, area land­lords and northeast residents (who partic­ularly are hard hit by this lack of snow removal). The response from the largest student landlord, Mark Kramer, was that he sent a newsletter out to his tenants to remind them of this requirement. The Notre Dame student body president, Grant Schmidt, has also urged off-campus stu­dents to follow the law, via the student newspaper, The Observer, and through off-campus student government represen­tatives. 
It was obvious to all in attendance that these students are not in town during the winter break. The South Bend Director of Code Enforcement, Cathy Toppel, stated that it is the property owner’s responsibili­ty for snow removal, and the property 
OBSERVER POLL 
Signing day is Feb. 3. Which commit will have the best ND career? 
Louis Nix (DT) Andrew Hendrix (QB) Tai-ler Jones (WR Cameron Roberson (RB) Other 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
owner of record could receive a 24-hour notice to abate the snow condition, when a violation is brought to an inspector’s atten­tion and after review. The procedure for fines is not in the law. The only way for the City to abate the condition (and generate a fine) is to send a crew out to remove the snow, and then process the work/fine as is done with lawn mowing, tree cutting, etc. 
Mr. Kramer indicated that his student tenants are required under his leases to perform snow removal on sidewalks and drives. Mr. Kramer’s tenants are not required to perform grass cutting or leaf raking; however, he requires them to remove snow when they are back at home during the holidays. Something is not right here. The City places this burden on the property owner. Currently, there is no pro­cedure in place to timely remove snow on residential sidewalks and driveways unless an owner/occupant (or prearranged contractor) performs this service. 
An idea came up at the meeting, though somewhat jokingly, that a snow removal contractor(s) be available to respond to snow removal complaints that are not addressed by the property owner within the 24-hour period the Code Enforcement citation directs. These contractors (with proper liability and other required insur­ance/bonds, etc.) could perform this serv­ice and attach liens on the property owner for reimbursement. It was jokingly said Mr. Kramer could even be one of these contractors, essentially disavowing snow removal responsibility and reaping mone­tary reward by his own tenants’ default. 

This sounds silly and it is, but it would perform a necessary safety requirement and keep pedestrians off the streets and on the sidewalks. It could provide small business opportunities and employ a large amount of day laborers/unemployed peo­ple. It might also convince landlords, “weekend rental” owners, vacant property owners, and our residents/business own­ers, that they are responsible for snow removal, or they can pay someone else. Who knows, carried further, it could cre­ate a new business model for year round employment of large numbers in our com­munity. No matter how we resolve this, Tim Ramer wants a solution. 
Bill Stenz 
alumnus Class of 1978 Feb. 3 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The shoe that fits one personpinches another; there is no recipefor living that suits all cases.” 
Carl JungSwiss psychologist 
The Observer 




Viewpoint 
Thursday, February 4, 2010 page 11 
Prepare to be amazed 
During the lovely month of February in South Bend, those of us who don’t have access to a condo in Florida and a way to get there can frequently find ourselves falling into a rut. Sleep, study, eat, repeat. Try to stay warm. Look for occasional 
Kate Barrett 
sunlight sightings. Those of us who live off campus Faith Point would add the fol­lowing to this rou­tine: Shovel. Hack at ice. Repeat. 
I shouldn’t whine about South Bend; it’s too easy a target, and besides, you can grind along in a rut anywhere, regardless of the weather. In this Sunday’s gospel, Simon Peter has perhaps fallen into a rut of his own – and he fished each day on the beautiful Lake of Gennesaret in the green­est, most temperate region in Galilee, even in all of Israel. He may not have even noticed how pretty it was anymore. Fish, clean nets, sleep, repeat. Then, of course, Jesus came along to shake things up a bit. 
A colleague of mine with whom I worked years ago in Brooklyn, New York, played softball on one of the many very competi­tive teams organized into leagues through­out the boroughs of New York City. He played center field and would always, always run in to try and catch a ball on the fly rather than hang back and play it on the bounce, even if he had to dive for it, even if his odds of actually catching it were small, even if it could end up careening over his head. When I asked if he found this strategy a little risky, he would always respond, “You gotta dare to be great.” Today, you can find that motivational phrase, and variations of it, on coffee mugs, t-shirts, key chains and web sites: “Dare to be yourself.” “Dare to do as many things as you dream of.” “Never be afraid to dare.” “Dare to err and to dream.” 
OK, so they sound extra-cheesy all lined up next to each other. How about this on a bumper sticker? “Put out into deep water and lower your nets for a catch.” If it does­n’t grab you, that’s all right; it didn’t do much for Simon Peter either. He protested as politely as he could, “Master, we have worked hard all night and have caught nothing, but at your command I will lower the nets.” Simon’s response, the first-cen­tury version of “whatever,” indicates that he’s not daring to be great; he’s not experi­encing the thrill of risk-taking; he’s not ready to step out of his comfortable habits. He follows Jesus’ request only because in all likelihood, something about Jesus intrigued Simon. He may have rolled his eyes as he got back in the boat, but he did as he was told. 
And suddenly, into those empty nets, into that routine that had become, well … rou­tine, came staggering amounts of fish. Imagine the nets tearing; frantic, frenzied fish writhing and jumping; experienced, veteran fishermen all but panicking; boats so filled with fish they nearly sank. Simon hadn’t really made any radical changes to his life (though that will come next). He simply did what he had always done; he fished, but now newly attuned to Christ’s presence in his life. 
And then, ironically, after perhaps his best single day ever in the fishing business, Simon brought the boats to the shore, and he, James and John left everything and fol­lowed Jesus. 
You may think you’ve got this Notre Dame thing down pat. You’ve been here just over one, three, five, seven (or more) semesters and you know how to approach everything from papers to parties, from early-morning classes to late-night study­ing. Simon had fished that lake a hundred times and thought he knew all he needed to know about it, yet with one short propo­sition Jesus opened his mind to see the same lake with brand new vision, and he was astonished. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Reorientation 
In response to Christopher Damian’s argument (“Orientation and identity,” Feb. 3): 
I am a man, just as you are. I should say here that I am also an agnostic/atheist. I believe that what is “physically revealed through our body orientation and hormones” are eons of evolutionary pressure. But, in order to effec­tively engage the subjects of sexual orientation and dis­crimination, I will adjust my vantage point and grant that we are created by a God who desires that we should be chaste and who made us with this in mind. 
Even still, much else is biologically “revealed.” One of the most important characteristics of humanity, one non­discrimination clause supporters emphasize, is diversity. Those very chemicals and brain structures said to be God’s handiwork are the source of a desire, in many, for sexual union with others of the same sex. 
To admit this fact is not to define ourselves based on sexual attraction. As a matter of fact, the addition of sex­ual orientation to the non-discrimination clause would represent a repudiation of such a definition — the University would be explicitly refusing to allow sexual orientation to define its members. This has the same effect that similar proclamations about race or gender do. Stating that we will not discriminate based on race is not to define ourselves based on the color of our skin, but to refuse to do so. The same respect should be afforded to those who are attracted to the same sex, or both sexes, in a way determined as biologically as skin color. While society often still judges people based on both these characteristics, neither has any affect on the ability of the person in question to “pursue the good, the true and the beautiful.” If chastity is the aim, is this not equal­ly possible for all, regardless of to whom one is attract­ed? 
One goal of Christianity is to make this world as much like the heavenly Kingdom of God as humanly possible. If, in heaven, we will not be gay, lesbian, bisexual, trans-gendered, or straight, should we not endeavor to see those around us in this way here on earth? 
Andrew Gray 
senior 

Siegfried Hall 
Feb. 3 


The walk-on tradition 
As a third generation legacy child, I was a Notre Dame fan from day one. My Grandpa and his four kids, including my mom, are all proud to call them­selves alumni of Notre Dame. This University is one of the most prestigious in the world: a Catholic school that excels in every area. However, these days there are a number of prestigious universities out there. But what sets this school apart can’t be measured in GPAs or trophies: it’s the tradition. Tradition is why alums give so much back to the school, why the foot­ball stadium is sold out every home game (no matter how bad the season), why we join arms at the end of every game and chant the Alma Mater, and why my family and I love this University so much. It is a very powerful thing that permeates almost every inch of this beautiful campus and it’s why my kids and grand­kids will love this school years from now. That said, a very prominent tradition is about to be cast aside: football walk-ons. 
Walk-ons have been a tradition of Notre Dame foot­ball since the time of that famous five foot nothin’, 100 and nothin’, defensive player with barely a speck of talent. This tradition has continued year after year, most notably with special teams walk-on Mike Anello. A few friends of mine were planning on trying out for next year’s team this spring and called the football office to find out when tryouts were. What they even­tually found out was that the new head coach Brian Kelly and his staff were not going to have walk-on tryouts this year. Furthermore, they found that some of the current walk-ons were being cut. If this is not the case, I ask that the staff release some information to clarify and I will stand corrected. I understand that we are in a year of transition, and that there are an infinite number of things that keep coach Kelly and his staff more than busy, and that they are working incredibly hard. 
I’m not going to lie, during coach Kelly’s press con­ference when he announced he would be head coach here, I was really excited. He talked of how he would listen to the football games with the awe and wonder that so many fans do, how coaching here was his dream job, and how he left a team that he just took to the Sugar Bowl to coach our team with a 12 and 12 regular season record in the past two years. I thought to myself, “This guy was meant for this job. This guy gets what Notre Dame is about.” However, it’s like he said in that same speech, “There’s a football coach, and then there’s a football coach at Notre Dame. Because nobody ... nobody does it like Notre Dame.” So to whom it may concern, please don’t cut the walk-ons. Please hold tryouts in the spring. Please find the time like every coach before you has. I know it must be difficult for you and I might sound like an ignorant student. Nonetheless, if my pleas are unheard, I will still love this school, this team, and everything associ­ated, because nobody does it like Notre Dame. 

Nate Greenberg 
freshman Keough Hall Feb. 2 
Thomas Merton wrote that every moment and each event of our lives plants something in our souls, but that most of these tiny new seeds of life simply die because we, with our lack of awareness, cannot receive them. 
When was the last time you “put out into deep water?” 
We may not need to change a thing about our lives except our visions of them, or we may find that our new vision demands change. Either way, why would we want simply to toil away in familiar routines for no better reason than the fact that this time of year lends itself to a numbing of our senses? Christ speaks to us each day in the midst of the very rou­tines of our lives, just as he spoke to Simon after a long night’s work. If we, by our genuine desire for a greater awareness of God, allow each moment to plant a seed in our hearts, we ought to prepare to be astonished. 
This week’s Faithpoint column was written by Kate Barrett, Director of the Emmaus Program in Campus Ministry. She can be reached at kbarrett@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Orientation a gift 
I found Mr. Damian’s notes on “Orientation and Identity” (Feb. 3) logically inconsistent and dan­gerous. Mr. Damian’s view that all humans have a “natural sexual orientation” to exist in monoga­mous heterosexual relationships is nothing more than his own normative prescription based on his views of the purpose of creation and, peculiarly, the hormone oxytocin. Mr. Damian proceeds to present having a homosexual orientation as an unnatural desire, and one that should be sup­pressed in order to lead a “natural” life. 
A person’s sexual orientation (heterosexual, homosexual, or any other) is not an unnatural desire, but instead part of their personality that was designed by God. As such, a person’s sexual orientation should be seen as natural and cele­brated as a gift from God. The right to live happy, fulfilled lives and have committed, meaningful relationships is not reserved for heterosexuals. 
We now must add sexual orientation to our non­discrimination clause precisely because it is such an important part of a person’s identity. We can­not claim to be an inclusive, respectful University while retaining the right to discriminate against someone for this part of their identity. Mr. Damian claims that this would be “degrading” as it defines us “by our desires, rather than who we are.” Again, sexual orientation is more than just a “desire.” We can no more change our sexual ori­entation than our race, sex or age. I sincerely doubt Mr. Damian would advocate the removal of any of these from our non-discrimination clause. 
Until reading Mr. Damian’s letter, I had never heard a member of the Notre Dame community celebrate our reputation as a place where “alter­native lifestyles are not an alternative.” This flies in the face of our commitments to inclusion and diversity. In fact, the Notre Dame mission state­ment declares the desire to cultivate a sensibility to the “injustice and oppression that burden the lives of so many,” as well as to “create a sense of human solidarity” within the student body and community. To live up to these goals F. Jenkins and the Notre Dame community must push to add sexual orientation to our non-discrimination clause. 

Patrick Mulligan 
senior 
off campus 
Feb. 3 

The Observer 





Scene
page 12 Thursday, February 4, 2010 
By JORDAN GAMBLE 
Associate Scene Editor 
The ghost of the Gipper is not alone in the depths of Washington Hall. He’s got some company from the peo­ple churning out program­ming for NDtv, Notre Dame’s student -run television channel. 
For 24 hours a day on Channel 53, NDtv broad­casts original program­ming produced by Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross students. As executive director, Notre Dame senior Nick Andert is in charge of a staff that includes writ­ers, anchors, camera operators, producers and actors from a variety of majors. 
The organization has come a long way since it started out in 2002. 
“Our first show was on the local PBS station. It was called ‘New Dimension Television’ because we weren’t allowed to say ‘NDtv,’” Andert said. 
“Lance Johnson was the guy who started it because he thought that Notre Dame should have TV, considering every other respectable col­lege does. They petitioned to become a club, the University said it was cool, we became Notre Dame Television,” 
Andert explained. After 
that, the “station” graduated to its own room in the basement of South Dining Hall, where it filmed two programs, a news program and “The Michael Peterson Show,” the precursor to what is now the talk show “Late Night ND.” It was a modest one hour of new pro­gramming each week. 


In 2006, Andert’s freshman year, NDtv got on campus cable and moved to new offices and a studio in the northeast corner of Washington Hall. But with a 24-hour channel, it 
was difficult at first to fill up all that time. 
“It was harder four years ago. When I was a freshman, we only had three shows run­ning. We had ‘News,’ ‘Late Night’ and were just starting a movie -review show called ‘The Final Cut.’ We didn’t have a whole lot of back episodes because we really only had two shows. So we aired a lot of repeats of the same stuff, which could get 
old after a while. But last semester we had 11 shows, 
which is unprece ­dented,” 
Andert said. 
“We have hundreds of back episodes now. We actually have enough material to pro­gram a pretty diverse week of television.” 
Andert said NDtv has also benefited from its reclassifica­tion as an organization under SAO, which comes with a hard-line budget that allows the station more flexibility in choosing projects to develop. 
“We tried to get it to a point where we’re really stable. ... We’re getting more and more of what we need every year to be able to fuel the number of people who want to make stuff for NDtv,” Andert said. He hopes the progress 
only continues. 
“One of our main 
goals is to expand our 
programming and get 
people involved. ... We 
definitely are always 
trying to get more view­
ership. We try to market 
ourselves more, and 
we’re always trying to 
push the quality of our 
stuff, too. It’s always diffi­
cult when you’re working 
with students who have 
classes and deadlines and 
other stuff to do, but people 
put in a lot of really hard work.” 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 



By JORDAN GAMBLE 
Associate Scene Editor 
This semester, NDtv will be airing new weekly episodes of its debate show, “Unnecessary Roughness ” and its news show, “The Tailgate, ” which NDtv executive director Nick Andert likened to a cross between “The Daily Show” and the Weekend Update segment from “Saturday Night Live.” Other shows tend to have “seasons ” of about five or six episodes spread 
out through the semester because they require film­ing outside of the studio. 
In one case, that filming takes place half way around the world. Saint Mary’s sophomore Stephanie Cherpak is currently filming season three of “NDtv Abroad ” in Rome, Italy. 
“This is our way of trying to share the expe­rience with those who are not fortunate enough to travel abroad them ­selves,” Cherpak said. 
Cherpak said that while every season has differed depending on who is doing the filming, the general idea is to build up some documentary footage to air next fall. 
“My approach is to film interesting and important things while here, review the footage when I return to the states, and then edit it based on topics — loca­


tion, residence, restau ­rants, monuments, trav ­els,” Cherpak wrote. A little closer to 
campus, 
Notre Dame senior Mark Lyons just finished editing together the first episode of the new half ­hour sitcom, “Higher Education,” which debuts Thursday at 11 p.m. 


Lyons worked with NDtv’s movie review show, “The Final Cut, ” his freshman year but came back after spending last summer cob­bling together a test pilot for “Higher Education .” The actual series stars Lyons and his three roommates, with the first episode ’s filming taking place 
over three days in late January. 
“Then I buried myself in an editing room for 12 hours to get it done,” he 
said. 
Lyons said the show is in the same vein as 
shows like “It ’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia.” Lyons plans 
on moving to Los Angeles after graduation to pursue a job as a staff writer for a television comedy series. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 

The Observer 




Scene
Thursday, February 4, 2010 page 13 
‘The Men Who Stare at Goats’ @ DeBartolo 101, 10 p.m. 
“The Men Who Stare at Goats” chronicles the journey of one reporter in search of the truth about the Iraq War. After being left by his wife, Bob Wilton (Ewan McGregor) travels to Iraq in an attempt to distract himself from the failings of his personal life. Once there, he stumbles upon Special Forces operator Lyn Cassady (George Clooney), and the unbelievable story Cassady has to tell: Cassady, as part of a Special Forces group, has been training to use psychic abilities as weapons of warfare. “Goats” will be playing on Thursday night at 10 p.m., and Friday and Saturday nights at 8 and 10:30 p.m. Tickets are $3. 
Dueling Pianos @ Legends, 10 p.m. 
Dueling Pianos is a national sen­sation and a campus favorite. It involves two talented piano play­ers who, on their baby grand pianos, take requests and enter­tain the audience in a high-energy performance. Audience members can expect a mix of top-40 hits, oldies, dance music and novelty songs. Extra points to anyone who can stump these piano wizards: they each claim to know thou ­sands of songs! Dueling Pianos returns to Legends on Friday night at 10 p.m. and as usual, there is no cover charge. Also don’t forget to stick around after­ward for the Black Light Party with free glow sticks included. 
Laura Izibor @ Legends, 10 p.m. 
Legends is excited to present Laura Izibor at 10 p.m. on Saturday night. An Irish R&B singer, Izibor has made it onto the R&B scene with her single “Shine,” featured on the sound­track of the “Nanny Diaries. ” Raised in Dublin, Ireland, Izibor discovered her love of music at an early age. At 17, she signed her first record deal and has been making music ever since. Influenced by James Brown, Aretha Franklin, and Carol King, Izibor has a smooth R&B style. She has opened for such acts as Estelle and John Legend on tour. Her first album, “Let the Truth Be Told, ” was released in May of 2009. 
‘Simon Boccanegra’ @ DPAC, 1 p.m. 
Starring Placido Domingo in the title role, the Browning Cinema presents the Verdi’s gripping opera “Simon Boccanegra” as performed by the Metropolitan Opera. It tells the story of Boccanegra, an aspiring Genoese politician. Having fallen in love with the daughter of Genoese noble man, Boccanegra agrees to run for office, hoping that upon winning he will be permitted to marry his love, with whom he already has a daughter, Maria. Boccanegra begs for permission to marry her, but is forced to surrender Maria to her grandfather in payment. It is then that Boccanegra realizes that Maria has gone missing. What follows is a twisted tale of political cunning and deception. Tickets are $15 for stu­dents. 

Contact Genna McCabe at gmccabe@nd.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 



By STEPHANIE WALZ 
Scene Writer 
The pink and red posters 
on the bulletin boards around campus indicate that it’s that time of year again for the dancers of Notre 
Dame to come togeth­er for the largest dance show on cam­pus. 
DanceFest, spon ­sored by Welsh Family Hall, features dancers that repre­sent each of the dance performing groups on campus in one all-encompassing ensemble. 
The performers have been preparing since last semester for the program, titled “Bad Romance,” ice as they will dance for a cause on the Washington Hall main stage to raise money for a local charity. Money made from ticket sales (tickets will be sold at the door for $5) will go directly to the Robinson routines from the Notre Dame Dance Company, Notre Dame Pom Squad, Ballet Folklorico, Troop ND, Irish Dance Team, Ballroom Dance Club, ND Swing Club, First Class Steppers and the DanceFest Dancers. Each of spot in a variety of student-choreographed routines, including ballet, tap, hip ­hop, lyrical, modern and jazz. These dancers from Notre Dame and Saint Mary ’s College trekked through harsh weather con-


which will take place this Friday and Saturday, February 5 and 6 at 7 p.m. From elegant ballet folklori­co to toe -tapping swing dancing to percussive step­ping, the show offers some­thing for everyone and gives viewers a taste of many dif­ferent genres of dance. 
Performers from nearly ten different groups give new meaning to community serv-Community Learning Center, which fosters relationship building and education among South Bend’s youth. The dance festival supports the community center’s arts program by donating money to the RCLC’s Shakespeare Company, which allows stu­dents to study Shakespeare’s famous works. 
“Bad Romance ” features the groups has been prepar­ing since last semester for this two-night extravaganza of artistic movement. 
Students who are not members of one of Notre Dame’s many dance groups still have a chance to per­form in this show as one of the DanceFest Dancers. These girls auditioned early in the fall semester for a ditions to attend rehearsals at least once a week for each of their routines, and have been putting in extra hours this week to give their audi­ence a fantastic show. After the long hours and tiring rehearsals, their hard work is sure to show when they step onstage this weekend. 
The dancers look forward to DanceFest from the start of the school year not only because they enjoy being on stage to show off their tal­ents, but because it brings out a different side of their personalities. 
Sophomore Kathleen Riojas, one of the featured DanceFest Dancers said 
the event gives her a chance to express herself. 
“I do this because it’s a different side 
of me. It ’s like an alter ego: normal student by day, dancer by night, ” she said. “I enjoy working with other people that strive to be the best dancer possible simply because it ’s a pas ­sion. You can really see that when we get 
on stage.” 
DanceFest gives stu­dent dancers a chance to show off their talents, and is expected to be an entertain­ing show for all involved. No matter what type of dance tickles your fancy, DanceFest has something for everyone 
— good music and energetic moves. 
Contact Stephanie Walz at swalz@nd.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, February 4, 2010 
NFL 

Archie says rooting for son is an ‘easy’ call 
Associated Press 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. — The town he calls home and the team he took a beating for over the course of a decade finally made it to the Super Bowl. The quarterback on the other side is his middle son. Archie Manning will not mince words. He can find room in his heart for only one of them. 
“It’s easy,” Manning replied Wednesday, when asked to choose between the New Orleans Saints and son Peyton’s Indianapolis Colts. “Very easy, anyway, when you’ve got a boy in the game.” 
But not quite as easy as he makes it sound. 
Manning was the glamour boy quarterback at Ole Miss who married the homecoming queen, then moved to New Orleans and learned firsthand how the other half lives. He got clobbered nearly every day of his professional life, first to last, 10 full seasons in all without a winning one. 
He was there when fans began showing up at the Superdome with paper bags over their heads, too loyal to abandon their beloved “Aints,” yet wanting to remain anony­mous lest the neighbors who stayed home questioned their sanity. 
“The worst year was 1980 and that was the year we thought we’d do pretty good,” Manning said, chuckling softly. “Things just fell apart. 
“We had lost the first 11 or 12 games and (oldest son) Cooper and Peyton were going to the games. They were 4 and 6 at the time, old enough to go, and they were enjoying it. Olivia is pregnant with Eli and I’m hav­ing one of those games. 
“So ‘round about the fourth quarter,” Archie paused, “Cooper turned to Olivia and asked could he and Peyton boo also.” 
All the losing, bumps and bruises don’t hurt quite as much now. Manning put down roots in New Orleans’ historic Uptown neighborhood and raised his three boys there. 
Today, they’re the Super Bowl’s first family. Peyton was MVP when the Colts won in 2007, and Eli did the same with the Giants the next year. That means for the third time in four years, one or the other has brought Archie to a place he didn’t dare dream about during his own playing days. And he will admit that maybe “there’s some justice in that,” given how bad the Saints were for nearly all 43 years of the franchise’s existence. 
Archie swears the boys learned more from their coach­es and each other than they inherited from him. 
“I wasn’t in his category,” he said about Peyton. “I could out­run him — Eli, too — but that’s about all I could do.” 
Yet their father’s professional­ism, even in the face of all that adversity, rubbed off. So did the affection and respect Archie showed everyone in the Saints organization from top to bot­tom. 
Manning often brought the two older boys to Saturday afternoon practices. They were allowed the run of the locker room after the games on Sundays, and Saints equipment managers Dan “Chief” Simmons and Silky Powell were depu­tized to keep an eye on them. Come this Sunday, Peyton will look across the sideline and be reminded again of his attach­ment to a town and its team. 
“Cooper and I used to run those guys wild,” Peyton recalled, laughing. “We used to be a pain in those guys’ rears, I can guarantee you. They were always great to us, kind of look­ing out for us, taking care of the quarterback’s kids. It’s special to be in this Super Bowl, but to have those guys in the game as well.” 
Peyton understands that just like his father, most of New Orleans will not have trouble dividing its loyalty. Yet that won’t be as easy as he makes it sound, either. 
“My dad would always come out and get us on the field and take a little time to be with us,” Peyton said. “He’d always sign autographs for all the fans after the games, most of these times after tough losses. But I couldn’t tell at the time. I didn’t really know if they won or lost. I was 3, 4, 5 years old. He was always the same. So that always had a positive influence on me.” 
Archie is signing still, just as active in the community as he was during his playing days. He later worked for the Saints as a broadcaster, and his involve­ment with a number of charities grew even stronger in the wake of Hurricane Katrina. 
“I’m just proud, very proud of what they’ve accomplished, and especially what this group of players have done in the com­munity,” Manning said. “They don’t just put their names on things. 
“We need that,” he continued. “We still got a ways to go, but the Saints just jump-started everyone’s attitude. And we really needed that during the recovery.” 
Still, the old quarterback reminds himself that blood is always thicker than water, even when the current that sweeps him along has such a strong emotional pull. He remembers how his own parents and Olivia’s never got to see either of their grandsons win football’s biggest game, let alone a Super Bowl appearance by the team they cheered their entire adult lives. 
“I had to come up with 30 tickets, but if there was anyone I would have wanted along, it would have been them,” he said. “Of course, if I’d ever told them the Saints would get to the Super Bowl one day, but they’d be playing against one of theirs, none of them would have believed it.” 
NFL 

NFL teams struggling financially; lockout a possibility 
Associated Press  big cash-flow business, but w h e n y o u ’ v e g o t g u y s l i k e  the league. We’re going have to address that.”  to  up in the standings,” he said. “ If I ’ m a Yan k e e s f a n, I’m  enhance their wide receivers and fortify their pass rush.  
O W I N G S  M I L L S ,  M d .  —  J a c k s o n v i l l e  t a r p i n g  u p  Ravens president Dick Cass  upset we’re not winning 130  “The restrictions put on the  
B a l t i m o r e  R a v e n s  o w n e r  10,000  seats  to  stop black-said the club is “doing well  games with the  roster  that  Baltimore Ravens  are  put  on  
S t e v e  B i s c i o t t i  s a i d  outs, when you’ve got teams  c o m p a r e d  t o  o t h e r  t e a m s  they have and the money that  3 1  o t h e r  b a l l c l u b s ,  t o o , ”  
Wednesday that several NFL  that are voluntarily staying at  around the league. But just  they pay out. I think it’s a dis- Newsome said. “We’ve got to  
owners  are  facing  a  financial  the minimum of  because we’re  grace they only beat the aver- be better than the other 31  
short fall that could  create  what they have  still doing well  age team by 10 games in the  clubs in order to  make  our  
“long-term problems for the league” and ultimately result in a lockout. As the Ravens prepare for a 2010 season without a salary cap, Bisciotti hinted the NFL c o u l d s h u t d o w n i n M a rc h 2011 i f con c e s si on s ar en ’t made by the players union in  to spend on the s a l a r y c a p i n order to not go u p s i d e d o w n financially, then w e a l r e a d y have a structur­al problem.” T h r e e y e a r s  “I’ve got partners out there right now whose teams are making less money than their lineback­ers. I think we’ve got an acute problem  i n r e v e n u e s , t h a t d o e s n ’t m e a n w e ’ r e generating a lot of profit.” A l t h o u g h there’s a good c h a n c e t h e r e w i l l n o t b e a  standings with three times the money. I’d fire that GM. You don’t need a GM. All you have to do is buy the last Cy Young Award winner every year.” Bisciotti, 49, has been the Ravens’ owner for 10 years, during which the team has  football team under these cir­cumstances. I look at it as a challenge. It puts the pres­sure on us to dig down deep to improve our football team.” The Ravens went 9-7 this season and reached the sec-o n d r o u n d o f t h e p l a y o f f s before being eliminated by  
negotiations for a new collec­tive bargaining agreement. Speaking at a news confer­ence in which team officials  ago, the owners a n d p l a y e r s union signed a C B A t h a t  here with the general profitability of the teams.”  s a l a r y c a p i n place in 2010, t h a t d o e s n ’t m e a n a t e a m  regularly sold out its home games. Despite that he still has concern about the future of the league.  Indianapolis. Bisciotti said the improvement of second-year quarterback Joe Flacco will be the key to success in 2011.  
looked back  at  last  season  Bisciotti labeled  will be allowed  “We want to be at  a  point  F l a c c o ’s  a b i l i t y  t o  e x c e l  
and ahead to 2010, Bisciotti insisted many of the 32 NFL teams are struggling to finish  “a bad deal” for the owners. “That puts us  Steve Bisciotti Ravens owner  to spend at will. A n d e v e n b y s p e n d i n g t h e  where teams are not selling off their star players in their f o u r t h y e a r b e c a u s e t h e y  could be helped by new quar­terbacks coach Jim Zorn — and the addition of a few new  
in the black.  in the une n vi - maximum, that  can’t afford to sign them to  targets.  
“I’ve got partners out there  able position of  w on ’t gu a r a n- t h a t  s e c o n d  c o n t r a c t , ”  “Do  we  want to improve at  
right  now  whose teams  are  this thing ending in a lockout  tee a spot in the playoffs.  Bisciotti said.  the wide receiver position?  
making less money than their  as  opposed  to  a  strike,” he  Using baseball’s New York  As the Ravens enter  an  off- Yes, because that will further  
linebackers. I think we’ve got  said. “There’s no cash flow. If  Ya n k e e s  a s  a n  e x a m p l e ,  s e a s o n  w i t h  a n  u n c e r t a i n  enhance  our  running game,”  
an  acute problem here with  we don’t get this thing back to  B i s c i o t t i  w o n d e r e d  a l o u d  financial environment and  no  N e w s o m e  s a i d .  “ H a v i n g  a  
the general profitability of the  t h e p o i n t t h a t  t e a m s  h a v e  about the payoff on an unbri­ salary cap, general manager  playmaker on the outside will  
teams,” Bisciotti said. “We  e n o u g h  c a s h  f l o w  . . .  t h e n  dled spending spree.  Ozzie Newsome is eager  to  make Joe Flacco become  a  
always knew this  was  not  a  there’s long-term problem for  “It certainly doesn’t show  w o r k w i t hin t h e s y s tem  t o  better quarterback.”  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do The 9000 series is the most reliable 9000 computer. Now that you are in I'm afraid. I'm afraid, Dave. Dave, not go it alone. Notre Dame has computer ever made. No 9000 Jupiter's space and the entire crew my mind is going. I can feel it. I can
FOR RENT PERSONAL many resources in place to assist computer has ever made a mistake is revived it can be told to you. feel it. My mind is going. There is you. If you or someone you love or distorted information. We are, by Eighteen months ago the first evi-no question about it. I can feel it. I needs confidential support or assis-any practical definition of the words, dence of intelligent life off the Earth can feel it. I can feel it. I'm a... fraid. tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at foolproof and incapable of error. was discovered. It was buried 40 Good afternoon, gentlemen. I am a If you or someone you care about 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For ——————————————— feet below the lunar surface near HAL 9000 computer. I became has been sexually assaulted, we more information, visit ND's web Good day, gentlemen. This is a pre-the crater Tycho. Except for a single operational at the H.A.L. plant in 
gradrentals.viewwork.com can help. For more information, visit site: recorded briefing made prior to your very powerful radio emission aimed Urbana, Illinois on the 12th of Notre Dame's website: http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu departure and which for security at Jupiter the four-million year old January 1992. My instructor was http.csap.nd.edu reasons of the highest importance black monolith has remained com-Mr. Langley, and he taught me to 
has been known on board during pletely inert. Its origin and purpose sing a song. If you'd like to hear it I the mission only by your H-A-L are still a total mystery. can sing it for you. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 

Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Thursday, February 4, 2010 
page 15 

NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball RPI 
team previous 
1 Kansas 2 2 Syracuse 1 3 Georgetown 6 4 Villanova 4 5 Duke 3 6 Kentucky 7 7 West Virginia 5 8 Kansas State 8 9 Purdue 12 10 Michigan State 14 11 Rhode Island 18 12 New Mexico 19 13 Wisconsin 10 14 Vanderbilt 27 15 Temple 11 16 UNI 20 17 BYU 22 18 Butler 24 19 Texas 9 20 Pittsburgh 17 21 Tennessee 15 22 Xavier 13 23 Wake Forest 21 24 California 26 25 Georgia Tech 29 
CSCAA Women’s Swimming Rankings 
team previous 
1 Georgia 1 2 Arizona 2 3 Texas 4 4 Stanford 3 5 California 6 6 Texas A&M 6 7 Florida 7 8 Auburn 8 9 Southern California 9 10 Minnesota 10 11 Virginia 11 12 Tennessee 13 13 Louisville 14 14 Indiana 12 15 North Carolina 15 16 Michigan 16 17 Wisconsin 17 18 SMU 19 19 Arkansas 18 20 Virginia Tech 20 21 Missouri 24 22 Purdue 22 23 Northwestern 23 24 LSU 21 25 Florida State 25 


around the dial 
Men’s NCAA Basketball 
Purdue at Indiana 7 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 
Miami at Cleveland 8 p.m., TNT 
NFL 


Super Bowl expected to have plenty of passing 
Associated Press 

MIAMI — In the 1973 Super Bowl, Bob Griese threw a grand total of 11 passes to help the Miami Dolphins complete the NFL’s only perfect season. 
The sport was more wide open a generation later, when winning quarterback Troy Aikman tossed 23 passes in the 1996 champi­onship game for the Dallas Cowboys. The Baltimore Ravens allowed Trent Dilfer to throw a whopping 25 times when they won the league title in 2001. 
Peyton Manning and Drew Brees may surpass those numbers before half­time in Sunday’s Super Bowl between the Indianapolis Colts and the New Orleans Saints, because passing wins like never before. 
Every 12-year-old fan can recite the NFL’s com­mon coaching mantra: Run the ball, control the clock and play good defense. But that longtime model for winning championships may be headed the way of leather helmets. 
“The game has changed,” former Pittsburgh Steelers coach Bill Cowher says. “It’s catered to throwing.” 
Manning and Brees do it better than anyone else, which is a big reason their teams are in the title game. 
Brees set an NFL record with his completion per­centage of 70.6, and Manning ranked second at 68.8. 
Brees led the league with 34 touchdown passes, and Manning tied Brett Favre for second at 33. Brees ranked first in passing effi­ciency, and Manning was on pace for an NFL-high 4,800 yards before resting for the playoffs late in the regular season. 
Gaudy passing statistics haven’t historically trans­lated into winning. Instead, 300-yard games were for losers. 
But this year, eight of the league’s top 10 teams in passing yardage made the playoffs. Teams reaching the postseason threw more than the league average. 
The Colts will play for the title despite ranking a distant 32nd and last in rushing. The Arizona Cardinals also ranked last a year ago when they reached the Super Bowl. No team had previously achieved that dubious feat, according to STATS LLC. 
So what happened to the notion of keeping the ball on the ground to win? 
“That day has gone,” says NFL draft consultant Gil Brandt, who has worked in the league since the 1960s. “If you get 10 carries as a running back now, that’s good. And whatever amount teams passed this year, there will be more passing next year.” 
IN BRIEF 

Columbus Blue Jackets fire 
coach Ken Hitchcock 
COLUMBUS, Ohio — The Columbus Blue Jackets fired defensive-minded coach Ken Hitchcock on Wednesday, less than a year after the club made the postseason for the first time. 
Assistant coach Claude Noel was cho­sen to lead the team on an interim basis. 
General manager Scott Howson announced the firing a day after the struggling Blue Jackets blew a 1-0 lead in a listless 5-1 loss at Colorado. Columbus stands 14th of the 15 teams in the Western Conference with a 22­27-9 record and 53 points. 
“It wasn’t working,” Howson said. “The team wasn’t responding to the message.” 
The Blue Jackets play their next game at home against Dallas on Thursday night. 
“You’re going to see some changes,” Noel said. “But I’m not going to reinvent the game.” 
Knee surgery keeps New 
Orleans guard out of game 
NEW ORLEANS — New Orleans point guard Chris Paul will have knee surgery and miss the All-Star game. 
Hornets coach Jeff Bower said Paul will have surgery Thursday to repair a torn meniscus in his left knee. Although Paul is likely to be sidelined for up to a month, Bower wouldn’t give a timetable for his return. 
“We are anticipating a very suc­cessful process,” Bower said Wednesday. “We look forward to his return to action at some point later on. The time frame will be deter­mined after the surgery. I won’t speculate on that.” 
The NBA announced Paul was replaced on the Western Conference roster by Denver’s Chauncey Billups for the All-Star game on Feb. 14 at Cowboys Stadium in Arlington, Texas. 
Pavin announces new 
assistants for Ryder Cup 
LOS ANGELES — U.S. captain Corey Pavins announced four assistants for the Ryder Cup on Wednesday, includ­ing two players who have never com­peted in the matches against Europe. 
Pavin said he had selected Tom Lehman, Davis Love III, Jeff Sluman and Paul Goydos. 
About the only assistant not consid­ered a surprise was Lehman, one of Pavin’s closest friends. Lehman was the Ryder Cup captain in Ireland in 2006 and chose Pavin as one of his assistants. 
The big surprise was Goydos, although the announcement brought a thumbs-up from Phil Mickelson. 
“That’ll be cool,” Mickelson said. 
Goydos said his only Ryder Cup experience has been watching on TV. Even so, he is among the most popular PGA Tour players in the locker room because of his dry wit and honest opinions. 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 4, 2010 
NFL 

NFL castoffs look to make mark in Miami 
Associated Press 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. — The overlooked, the underrated and the outright rejected have somehow landed in this Super Bowl — some with starring roles, too. 
The New Orleans Saints wouldn’t be competitive, let alone NFC champions and in their first Super Bowl, without a number of players who fit those categories. The list starts with quarterback Drew Brees and includes Darren Sharper, Jonathan Vilma, Jeremy Shockey, Pierre Thomas and Marques Colston. 
Same for the Colts. Indianapolis defensive starters Gary Brackett and Melvin Bullitt weren’t drafted. Neither was Jeff Saturday, the three-time All-Pro who snaps the ball to Peyton Manning. Two other starters, guard Ryan Lilja and defensive tackle Dan Muir, were picked up on waivers. DE Raheem Brock was selected in the seventh round by the Eagles in 2002, cut and signed by Indy. Pierre Garcon, the rap­idly developing wide receiver, was a sixth-round draft pick. 
“You’ve got to take advantage of your opportunities. Nothing’s given to you. You’ve got to take it and don’t let it go,” said Antoine Bethea, the Colts’ starting free safety and a sixth-round pick in 2006. “Myself, Melvin Bullitt, Jacob Lacey, Jerraud Powers — I think we’ve all done that. And that’s just the secondary, not even mentioning the guys on the front end. So whatever it is, whatever you need to do, you can’t relinquish the opportunity that you’re given.” 
Brees was all but dumped by San Diego, then shunned by the Dolphins in 2006. Sharper, set adrift by Minnesota last year, signed a one-year deal at the veteran’s minimum with New Orleans. Vilma and Shockey were unwanted in New York despite some Pro Bowl seasons. Thomas wasn’t drafted at all, while Colston was — 252nd overall, in the final moments of the last round in ‘06. 
“Here we are trying to come back and find ourselves,” said Brees, who lost his starting job with the Chargers to Philip Rivers in great part because he injured his right shoulder in the 2005 season finale — his last game before entering free agency. Miami showed interest in him, then backed off on medical advice. The Saints had no such reservations. 
“Sean Payton gets hired. I get brought in as a free agent with Scott Fujita,” Brees said. “Reggie Bush and Marques Colston get drafted. We bring in guys like Mark Simoneau and Scott Shanle. The list goes on of the guys we brought in that year as free agents. 
“In a way, all of us were cast­aways, guys who were obvious­ly free agents because there were plenty of teams out there that didn’t want us. Yet, the New Orleans Saints wanted us and they wanted to give us an opportunity. We all used that as a rallying point to come togeth­er and accomplish something special and we did.” 
It’s not all superstars and super stats in this Super Bowl. 
The Saints’ top two rushers, Thomas and Mike Bell, went undrafted. The Colts’ top receiver in these playoffs, Garcon, was taken with the 205th overall pick. 
“You’ve got to give credit to (Payton) for keeping an undrafted guy over a fourth-round pick,” linebacker Shanle said, referring to how the Saints stayed with Thomas over Antonio Pittman. “Even though he was better, a lot of teams don’t do that.” 
These teams do. They also will trade for players who have worn out their welcome or don’t fit elsewhere. Shockey and Vilma are examples. 
Shockey caught 371 passes and lots of flak with the Giants for his individualism, willing­ness to speak out, and pen­chant for committing penalties. When the Giants discovered in 2007 they could win with Kevin Boss after Shockey broke his leg — sidelining him for the playoff run and Super Bowl upset of New England — they shopped the moody (some say disruptive) tight end. 
Payton was buying, offering a second-and fifth-round selec­tion. 
“He’s a guy that last night was floating around the meet­ing rooms and half the team is out for dinner,” Payton said, referring to Shockey. “He’s looking at tape and getting ice. So I think a little bit of that is mythical. It’s fun to write about.” 
Vilma was the 2004 defensive rookie of the year. When the Jets switched coaches in 2006 from Herm Edwards to Eric Mangini, they also installed a 3-4 defense, which limited Vilma, whose strength is his pursuit from sideline to side­line. 
It was clear from early in his tenure in New York that Mangini wanted a different kind of middle linebacker, and Vilma became available in 2008 after missing nine games with a knee injury. 
Again, Payton was buying, offering a fourth-rounder and a conditional pick. Mangini, per­haps believing Vilma was dam­aged goods, was so eager to send the player elsewhere that he accepted the trade. 
“It’s funny, we had similar situations,” Vilma said, refer­ring to Shockey, who was his teammate at the University of Miami. “He got hurt, I got hurt. He got traded, I got traded, and we’ve just been making the most of it since.” 


PGA 

Lefty bends on wedge use 
Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES — Phil Mickelson won’t be using the Ping Eye2 wedge that led a fellow player to accuse him of “cheating,” even though he hopes others will use the controversial club to keep attention on what he calls a ridiculous rule. 
“I won’t be playing that wedge. My point has been made, ” Mickelson said Wednesday on the eve of his two -time title defense at Riviera. “But if these gov­erning bodies cannot get together to fix this loophole, if players stop using this wedge — which would stop the pressure of the issue — then I will relook at it and put the wedge back in play.” 
The Ping wedge has grooves that no longer con­form under a new USGA reg­ulation, adopted by the PGA Tour. However, any Ping wedge made before April 1, 1990, is approved for play under a legal settlement from two decades ago. 
Mickelson is among five players who have used the Ping wedge in competition this year. 
Several players believe using the club goes against the spirit of the new grooves regulation, although Scott McCarron fueled the debate when he said of Mickelson and others, “It’s cheating.” 
Mickelson hinted at legal action after saying he was “publicly slandered. ” He said McCarron offered him a sincere apology on Tuesday night, which he accepted. 
“We all make mistakes, and we all say things we wish we could take back,” Mickelson said. “I’ve done it a bunch in my career. And the fact that it’s also not easy to come up and face that person, look them in the eye and apologize ... I appreciate him being a big enough man to do that.” 
Instead, Mickelson vented his anger at the USGA and its lack of transparency in developing the new rules for grooves. He has complained that his submitted wedges that fit the guidelines, only for the USGA to reject the club for violating the intent of the new rule. 
“I’ve very upset with the way the rule came about, the way one man essentially can approve or not approve a golf club based on his own personal decision, regard­less of what the rule says,” Mickelson said. “This has got to change.” 
The next step remains murky. 
PGA Tour commissioner Tim Finchem met with play­ers on Tuesday night and conceded that tour officials did not realize a Ping wedge from 20 years ago would become such a big issue. 
Finchem said the Ping Eye2 wedge produces spin at about 60 percent of the rate from last year’s wedges, but about 10 percent more than wedges approved for compe­tition this year. 
“The assumption was made last year that very few, if any, players would use that club because they’re 20 years old,” Finchem said. “I think we underestimated that a little bit.” 
He said the tour could either do nothing and moni­tor how many players used wedges, an option that seemed unlikely because Finchem said it still raised issues over fairness in com­petition. Some players are going to eBay to find the clubs, as Ping stopped mak­ing them and now only can confirm through serial num­bers when the wedges were made. 
The other option is to work out an agreement with Ping chairman and CEO John Solheim. He said Solheim was to meet with the USGA 
over the next few weeks, and “I can only hope progress is made in that regard.” 
Ping plays the biggest role in any solution because of its lawsuits against the USGA and PGA Tour over square grooves. 
Finchem said the third option involved a complicat­ed process in which the tour’s independent commit­tee on equipment tries to establish a local rule. He called that a “cumbersome process.” 
Any solution could be weeks, if not months, away. 
In the meantime, Mickelson said he would not use the wedge at the Northern Trust Open, even though he’s hopeful others will. 
“If there ’s no pressure among these organizations to make changes, I will immediately put the club back in play,” Mickelson said. 


Thursday, February 4, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
OLYMPICS 

Babcock ready to win gold for Team Canada 
Associated Press 
DETROIT — Mike Babcock rel­ishes the chance to coach Team Canada. 
Pressure? 
Please. 
Babcock’s every move from behind the bench at the Vancouver Olympics will be dis­sected and debated in the hock­ey-crazed country. If the Canadians win gold in front of their fans, he’ll enjoy a a once-in­a-lifetime experience. 
If not, he’ll never be able to for­get it. 
Babcock said it was “absolutely devastating” when Anaheim lost Game 7 of the 2003 Stanley Cup finals — in his first season as an NHL head coach — but that dis­appointment would likely be trumped by falling short at the end of the month. 
Babcock’s piercing eyes don’t blink and sharp tongue isn’t stunted, though, when pressed about his emotions as he approaches what might be the defining moment of his stellar career. 
“It’s the biggest honor anyone coaching hockey could have. It’s the ultimate,” Babcock said. “I’m sure Ron Wilson coaching the 
U.S. feels the same way about it, but hockey is a religion in Canada and it’s THE sport. That’s what makes it so exciting. 
“Being the best hockey nation in the world means a lot to Canada.” 
Babcock seems about as pre­pared and qualified as possible for the job. 
He helped the Detroit Red Wings hoist the Stanley Cup in 2008 and was a win away from repeating last year. He won more games in the playoffs (58) and regular season (282) than any other NHL coach in his first six seasons. Scotty Bowman, Glen Sather, Fred Shero and Babcock are the only coaches in the expansion era that started four decades ago to coach in three or more Stanley Cup finals in their first six seasons. 
The Red Wings hired him after away from the Ducks after he climbed the coaching ladder with Cincinnati in the AHL, Spokane and Moose Jaw in the WHL, the 
University  of  Lethbridge  
Pronghorns  and Red  Deer  
College.  

Babcock also paid his dues for Hockey Canada, becoming the country’s first coach to win a world championship (2004) and world junior championship (1997). 
“He has a great track record as a proven winner,” said Hockey Canada executive director Steve Yzerman, who picked Babcock to coach the team he assembled. 
Babcock’s duties in Vancouver will include being the face and voice for his team. The 46-year­old Babcock can handle a sea of reporters and TV cameras with ease by delivering stern messages in one breath and regaling the media with stories the next. 
“He’ll be perfectly comfortable on and off the ice because he enjoys coaching and everything about it,” Yzerman said. “He’s a strong leader.” 
Very strong. 
During a relatively casual ori­entation camp last August in Calgary, Babcock’s style came across as clear as a Canadian lake. 
Several of Babcock’s players were asked a couple weeks before the Vancouver Games begin for their impressions of him and almost all of them said “intense” within the first few words. 


“He’s very intense, very serious obviously,” San Jose Sharks for­ward Dany Heatley said. “He expects a lot out of you. I had him before in a world championship in ‘04. I know him a little bit from there. He’s very organized and knows what he wants you to do and expects a lot out of you.” 
Babcock makes no bones about being brash at times. 
“Do I handle everything right? 
No. Am I too harsh sometimes? Maybe,” Babcock once said in an interview with The Associated Press. “But players will always know where they stand with me and what pleases me because I’ll let them know, and I don’t play games.” 
Babcock will have only one day to run a practice with his team before it plays Norway on Feb. 16 in the preliminary round. If the Canadians aren’t skating hard or don’t look focused — even if it’s a morning skate — they’ll hear about it. 
“He’s very vocal,” Dallas stars forward Brenden Morrow said. 
Morrow played against Babcock when he was coaching Spokane, was one of his players at the world championships and 
is  on  his  23-man  roster  in  
Vancouver.  
“He’s  a  great  motivator,”  

Morrow said. “He wants a lot of tempo and energy. For a quick tournament like that, trying to get guys together, he’s the right guy for the job. 


FORMULA ONE 
Schumacher lukewarm on Mercedes F1 chassis 
second slower than pace-set-
Associated Press 
ter Fernando Alonso of 
VALENCIA, Spain — Michael Ferrari. Schumacher expects the Schumacher said improve-Mercedes GP car to be “com-ments are needed because he petitive” this season but isn’t considers his former Ferrari sure if the team can win the team a potential front-runner. Formula One championship. “We need to be there, we 
Schumacher will be aiming need to take good points at the for an eighth Formula One beginning,” Schumacher said. title. Schumacher and most of the 
Schumacher was pleased F1 teams will head to the next with his first full day of driving test session from Feb. 10-13 in a competitive F1 car on Jerez, Spain. Wednesday, saying it was “The main focus now is to “running very smoothly, very look at the reliability, to do as nice, I’m looking very positive many laps as you can and not into the season.” worry too much for the lap 
But he didn’t sound bowled times,” Schumacher said. over in his return after a “Yes, you look at (the lap three-year retirement. times) but you need to pin­
“We will be competitive, but point and focus on main, whether it’s right away a win-important (things).” ning car or not that’s another He did find it easier than story,” Schumacher said. “I expected to return as he pairs wouldn’t expect to be winning again with team principal Ross right from the beginning, it Brawn, who was instrumental wasn’t something I was aiming in each of his seven previous for and expecting to be the championships. Brawn GP won case. But we need to be strong both drivers and constructors’ enough in the development.” titles last season before being 
The 41-year-old German bought by Mercedes. drove 82 laps to close the pre-“Much easier than I expect­season’s first testing session ed it,” Schumacher said of before a hydraulic leak forced adapting to an F1 car. “I him off with the third-fastest thought it needed more time, lap time. It was nearly one but it went pretty quickly.” 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 4, 2010 
NFL 

Big Easy preparing for Super Bowl Sunday 
but not getting much done. 
Associated Press 

Saints jerseys, “Who Dat?” T­NEW ORLEANS — Mardi Gras shirts and black and gold beads falls on a Sunday this year. are the uniform everywhere you 
The city of the Saints is filling go. up with ex-New Orleanians and The French Quarter’s narrow others ahead of the Super Bowl, streets also are awash in the many looking to cast off a legacy team colors. As revelers cruise of football futility and natural down its streets, strangers give disaster — others just looking to each other high-fives party down in one of the world’s “It’s been all Saints all the greatest party towns. time,” said Steve Sabrier, an oil 
“We’re gearing up for Sunday field worker who marched from 
just like Mardi  the Superdome  
Gras day,” said Earl Bernhardt,  “I pity anybody who  to the French Quarter after the  
a bar owner in the French Quarter. “We’re staffing just like  needs something done in New Orleans these days. We can’t  NFC champi­onship. “I pity anybody who needs something  
we do for Mardi  concentrate on  done  in  New  
Gras, and if the Saints win, we won’t close at  anything but the game.”  Orleans these days. We can’t concentrate on  
all.  We’ll  stay  anything but the  
open as long as  Steve Sabrier  game.”  
people standing.”  are  New Orleans resident  Sister Rose,  Mary a  
After 43 years  Dominican  nun  

in existence, the Saints will who attends every Saints game make their Super Bowl debut in and teaches at a Catholic school Miami on Sunday, facing the in the Quarter, said the feeling of favored Indianapolis Colts. sheer excitement in the city is 
Fans from most cities would almost tangible. “I think ‘exu­be headed to South Florida berant joy’ is the word,” the nun about now. But for ex-pat New said. “And it has brought such a Orleanians, the game is trigger-unity to us, such a bond between ing a pilgrimage home. And for all the people here it’s just everybody back in town, the amazing.” party’s already started. Meanwhile, in Atlanta, New 
A few are taking the week off Orleans transplant Belinda in the countdown to game day. Hernandez vowed to be in Others are punching the clock, Miami if the Saints made the big game. 
“But seeing the fever pitch in New Orleans and knowing how we party, I changed my mind,” Hernandez said. 
“Who wants to be on Miami Beach when they can be in the French Quarter with the Who Dats for the game?” 
So Hernandez turned down some friends in South Florida, who offered to get her tickets. 
Besides being Super Bowl weekend, this is the start of car­nival season that ends Feb. 16 on the real Mardi Gras. There are four parades scheduled in New Orleans on Saturday and two on Sunday — but they’re rolling early to avoid conflicting with the game. 
All eyes on the game, starting Sunday at 5:25 p.m. local time. 
Mary Beth Romig of the New Orleans Metropolitan Convention and Visitors Bureau says there’s no question the Saints have created something special — this time for the city’s tourist trade. 
“This is turning into a very big weekend for the hotels in down­town New Orleans and the French Quarter,” said Romig. “We did a survey and hotels are running about 90 percent full late in the week, and that jumps to 95 percent on Sunday. People are definitely coming to New Orleans for Super Bowl.” 
Sorry, Colts fans, but it’s a dif­ferent story up north. 
Kimberly Harms, a spokes­woman for the Indianapolis tainment suites, which are great Convention & Visitors for parties of 25, 35 people,” he Association, said there was no said. noticeable jump in hotel occu-“Some are probably just peo­pancy there for the weekend. ple looking for a party. But a lot She noted, however that one are former residents, I think. hotel had set aside 44 rooms at People in New Orleans have the special rate of $144 in honor looked for this day a long time of the 44th Super Bowl. If and now they want to be here Indianapolis wins, she said, the for it.” rooms will be free for those Police will increase their cov­staying in them. erage in the French Quarter this 
At New Orleans’ Roosevelt weekend, adding approximately 
Hotel, an upscale  600  officers,  
hotel suites  where start at  “Where would you  p o l i c e spokesman Bob  
$259 a night and  rather be if the Saints  Young  said.  
go up, marketing director Mark Wilson said they are seeing a  win, the French Quarter or Miami? Even if they lose you  That’s about the number the city would deploy if New Orleans  
“huge surge” of people who want to celebrate the  want to be in New Orleans.”  were hosting the game. Rick Watson,  
Super  Bowl  in  and  his  wife,  
New Orleans.  Rick Watson  Katherine,  are  
“Let’s face it, not everybody  New Orleans resident  among the natives coming  
can get a ticket  back.  

to the game,” Wilson said. “And Now residents of North a lot of people seem to think Carolina, 35-year-old Watson being in New Orleans is a good said it took them a long time to alternative.” believe the Saints had really 
The Roosevelt is about 80 per-made the big game, but not cent booked, which is 10 percent much time to decide where to to 15 percent more than normal watch it. for a weekend with no conven-“When something big hap­tion in town, Wilson said. The pens, you go home, and this is big seller is the hotel suites, with big,” Watson said. “Besides, much of the business coming where would you rather be if the from Texas, Mississippi and Saints win, the French Quarter Alabama. or Miami? Even if they lose you 
“People are booking the enter-want to be in New Orleans.” 


Thursday, February 4, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NFL 

Haitian Garcon wears his heart on his bandanna 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — Pierre Garcon keeps finding new ways to spread his message about Haiti. 
First, it was through his charitable foundation. Then it was celebrating with the national flag after the Colts’ two playoff victories. On Tuesday, the Indianapolis receiver used his head, literal­ly. 
He took advantage of foot­ball’s biggest stage, the Super Bowl, by donning a bandanna that resembled the Haitian flag and put the relief effort in the earthquake-ravaged nation squarely in the spotlight. 
“I’m trying to give them a lit­tle hope and trying to help as much as I can and do some­thing positive for them,” Garcon said during media day. “So far, I’m very pleased with what we have done with a lot of help and support. I know we couldn’t do it by ourselves. I’ve been in touch with Haiti and I’m very pleased with what we have done.” 
The second-year player from Mount Union, a Division III school in Ohio, has spent the past month enduring sleepless nights, countless hours watch­ing the cable news channels and trying to cope with the angst and anxiety in a country where he has dozens of rela­tives and friends. 
Garcon’s mother, who migrated from Haiti to the U.S., picked vegetables on a farm and now lives near Miami, kept trying to reach people close to the family. Most, they know, survived. Others have been more diffi­cult to reach. 
Yet Garcon figured his job, playing football, gave him an opportunity to make a differ­ence and he took full advan­tage of that megaphone during the playoffs. 
Rarely does an interview go by in which Garcon doesn’t make a plea for Haiti. He’s used his Twitter account to solicit contributions for the relief effort and he’s teamed up with the Northwest Haiti Christian Missionary Group to help raise money for the coun­try. 
In some ways, football pro­vided a needed respite for Garcon and gave Haitians an opportunity to revel in Garcon’s success. 
He made the potentially game-changing play against Baltimore by forcing Ed Reed to fumble after he intercepted Peyton Manning. The Colts recovered, snuffing out a Ravens scoring chance. The next week, against the Jets, Garcon had 11 receptions for 151 yards, both career highs, and scored the go-ahead touchdown in the AFC champi­onship game. 
In other ways, it has put football in perspective. 
“I’m not certain you can ever say any tragedy like that helps,” coach Jim Caldwell said. “I’m certain he’d rather be free of those worries. But I do think that he’s shown some unusual resolve. I think he’s used some of that, maybe to push him forward. I think I heard him mention that if he could do something and do it well, it may bring a ray of sun­shine to one or two of his fami­ly members who is OK.” 
Garcon’s mission may still be in the early stages, but the message is getting through loud and clear. Colts and Jets players, he said, have routine­ly asked him how to help. 
Two Saints players with Haitian ties also have offered assistance. 
Linebacker Stanley Arnoux, who, has a half brother and half sister in Haiti, wants to lend his hand after the season ends Sunday. Jonathan Vilma, another linebacker, is selling T-shirts with the phrase “Department of Domeland Defense” and also hopes to make a more significant pres­ence in the relief effort. Vilma, like Garcon, also has family and friends in Haiti. 
“Everything about the shirt was something that I felt like we needed, and it really helped with everything going to the Haiti relief effort,” Vilma said. “That really was a huge plus for me, because I can’t really do anything else besides that at the moment.” 
In addition, the labor unions in the NFL, NBA, NHL and Major League Baseball have formed an alliance called “One Team 4 Haiti,” a group that will partner with the Clinton Bush Haiti Fund. 
Garcon isn’t waiting. 
He’d rather use his fame and the Super Bowl stage to make his pitch now, when time and money are of the essence to one of the world’s poorest nations. 
“Life in Haiti is tough,” Garcon said. “It is just like New York City with people working and going about their business and doing the things they have to so that they can survive.” 

And if Indy wins Sunday, Garcon wants to end the post­season the same way he start­ed it — with a celebration of his adopted country. 
“Hopefully, we will win and I will have it (the Haitian flag) out there with me,” he said. “There are a lot of bad aspects with being Haitian so I’m just trying to do something positive and let people and especially kids know we can make it (in America) and be anybody we want to be.” 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 4, 2010 
NBA 

Rondo leads Pierce-less Celtics past Wade, Heat 
Johnson and Crawford combine for 56 points to lead Hawks in comeback to top Clippers, team improves to 20-5 in Atlanta 
Associated Press 
Even without Paul Pierce, the Boston Celtics had too much for Dwyane Wade and the Miami Heat. 
Rajon Rondo had 22 points and 14 assists, Kevin Garnett had a season -high nine assists, and Tony Allen made a key steal in the final minute to help the Celtics beat the Heat 107-102 on Wednesday night. 
Pierce watched from the bench in street clothes after spraining his left foot Monday night. Garnett played in just his seventh game after miss­ing 10 because of a knee injury. And backup guard Marquis Daniels missed his 27th straight game with a thumb injury that required surgery. 
“It plays with the rhythm of your team,” Garnett said. 
“ F o r  t h e  m o s t  p a r t ,  w e  
h a v e n ’t  e v e n  b e e n  a t  f u l l  
strength.”  

Allen started in place of Pierce, Boston’s leading scor­er, and stripped the ball from Wade near the Miami free-throw line with 37 seconds left. He was fouled and made both shots for a 99-94 lead. That forced the Heat to foul and the Celtics scored their last eight points on free throws, five by Ray Allen, to improve to 31-16, best in the Atlantic Division. 
“I just reached my left hand out there and got the steal, hit the two free throws, and that was the game, ” Tony Allen said. 
Wade led the Heat with 30 points and 13 assists but committed six turnovers. 
“We went through a stretch where we didn’t hit enough shots,” he said. “We fought back, but we gave up too wide of a gap.” 
Rondo was the main reason the Celtics held off the Heat. 
He hit a 3-pointer at the 24­second buzzer to make it 60­58 early in the third quarter and the Celtics never trailed after that, although Miami stayed close. 
Boston won its second straight game after losing three in a row, while Miami lost for the fifth time in six games. 
Allen scored 23 points, and Garnett added 14. Rafer Alston and Udonis Haslem each scored 15 for Miami. 
The Celtics continually found the open man, getting 29 assists on 37 field goals. 
“It was contagious,” Rondo said. “We shared the ball tonight and played very unselfishly.” 
The last time the teams met, the Celtics won 112-106 on Jan. 6 after Rondo’s layup on a pass from Pierce a split-second before the fourth ­quarter buzzer sent the game into overtime. 
Rondo finished that game with 25 points. 
Pierce missed the rematch after being hurt in a 99-88 win at Washington and is expected to sit out at least one more game. 
Wade gave the Heat one last chance when his 3-pointer cut Boston’s lead to 105-102 with 7 seconds left, but Ray Allen secured the win with two free throws with 4.9 sec­onds to go. 
Miami dropped below .500 at 24-25 after the opener of a stretch of eight road games and just one home game. Wade wasn’t thinking about the losing record. 
“This is a tough road trip we are on. We have to focus game to game,” said Wade, whose right knee was wrapped in ice afterward. 
Jermaine O’Neal returned after missing the previous game with back spasms. 
“We have several guys in there who are wounded war­riors,” Miami coach Erik Spoelstra said, but “We’re not unique.” 
With the score tied at 74 entering the fourth quarter, the Celtics scored the first five points. 
They led 82-78 after Wade hit a free throw, then scored the next six points on a short jumper by Rasheed Wallace followed by a dunk and a layup by Kendrick Perkins that gave them the biggest lead of the game, 88-78 with 
6:36 to go. 
With 2.3 seconds left in the first half, Michael Beasley tied it at 51 with a 3-pointer. Then Daequan Cook fouled Rondo near midcourt with 0.3 seconds left and the point guard hit two of three shots for a 53-51 halftime lead. 
Hawks 103, Clippers 97 
ATLANTA — Al Horford loves it when Joe Johnson takes over in the fourth quar­ter. 
“It’s ridiculous how much he was scoring,” Horford said. “He just goes about it like a business.” 
Johnson scored 34 points, Jamal Crawford added 22, and the Atlanta Hawks over­came a nine-point, fourth-quarter deficit to beat the Los Angeles Clippers on Wednesday night. 
The Hawks, coming off con­secutive road losses at Orlando and Oklahoma City, improved to 20-5 at home. 
Johnson began the second half going 7 for 8 from the field and finished 11 for 21, with three 3-pointers. 
“We picked up our energy,” Johnson said. “I’m just glad we came through.” 
Chris Kaman and Eric Gordon each scored 17 points for Los Angeles. The Clippers finished an eight-game trip with just two wins and have dropped 13 of 15 away games. 
Marcus Camby, the NBA’s third-leading rebounder, had 20 rebounds for Los Angeles, but a miscommunication with Baron Davis caused the point guard to call the Clippers’ final timeout with 2:16 remaining. 
Camby apparently didn’t break free soon enough to help Davis move the ball away from two defenders that had him pinned near the mid-court sideline. 
Because he feared commit­ting a 5-second turnover, Davis called timeout. He com­plained to Camby, who nod­ded his head in agreement, as the two team­mates walked made it 90-88 with 3:35 left. 
The Clippers were up 70-57 after Rasual Butler’s fast ­break layup at the 2:16 mark of the third quarter. Their defense, however, relaxed enough to let Atlanta go on a 13 -0 run that ended with Crawford’s free throw. 
“We just got up and them put them on a carousel,” Hawks forward Josh Smith said. “We lim­ited them to 
to Los Angeles’ one shot, 
“It’s ridiculous how 
bench. rebounded and 
The posses -much [Joe Johnson] had a couple sion ended as was scoring. He just of fast -break Davis badly points. That is 
goes about it like a
missed a layup what this team from the right business.” has to do.” side. Smith, 
“I think they Horford and 
Al Horford 
were the more M a r v i n
Hawks forward 
agg ressive Williams each team in the had 10 second half,” rebounds. Davis said. “They started Horford finished with 16 making shots, which helped points, and Smith had 15. them get confidence. A good Though the Hawks were team like this is hard to con-outrebounded by nine and tain when they start knocking outscored by 16 in the paint, down shots.” Horford believes his team 
Camby was disappointed to fought harder for loose balls. end the road trip with anoth-“It’s very important,” er loss. Horford said. “Josh is so 
“It’s definitely frustrating,” aggressive out there, and we Camby said. “We felt we let all need to do that as a unit in this one get away. They cut order to be effective on the the lead to 3 going into the boards.” fourth. Going down the Horford and Johnson com-stretch they got to the line a bined for 24 points and hit 10 lot and made a lot of free-of 11 free-throw attempts in throws.” the fourth quarter. 
Atlanta never trailed after “We can’t afford to have a Crawford’s two free throws letdown,” Johnson said. 




Thursday, February 4, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
“It’s going to be gritty. 
will help us re-establish how plays. The have to get we play and really help us get Bearcats out-It’s going to be a little t o u g h e r, ” back on track.” rebounded the war out there.” Harangody 
Cincinnati has not won a Big Irish 50-31 the s a i d . East road game since Jan. 2, last time they “Cincinnati 
Tyrone Nash 
when it beat Rutgers 65-58 in met. banged us Piscataway, N.J. “We need to Irish junior around a little 
Harangody said the team concentrate on came in Sunday after its loss boxing out,” to Rutgers to work out, and Nash said. “We has also worked out early in [need to] make sure we have a the morning. body on everyone.” 
“It’s kind of a wake-up call Sophomore forward Yancy for some guys who might need Gates, at 6-foot-9 and 260 that,” he said. pounds, leads the Bearcats in 
But it might take more than rebounding with 6.7 per game. 
that,  and  it  He also averages  
might not be  10.5  points  per  
p r e t t y . H a r a n g o d y said he and  “We know we have to get tougher.”  game. Freshman forward Lance Stephenson leads  
fellow senior  the team in scor­ 
captain Tory Jackson may need to light a  Luke Harangody Irish senior  ing, averaging 12.2 points per game.  
fire  under  Notre Dame is  
some  of  the  3-1  in  Purcell  

players to impress upon them Pavilion in conference play, the need to work harder. the only loss coming against a “I think you challenge them Syracuse team now ranked the next couple days,” he said. No. 3 in the country. “I think you got to get into Harangody continues to lead 
Tar Heels 
continued from page 24 
an opportunity to reach their full potential for the rest of the year. 
“There is a lot of room for improvement, but we still know what we need to work on in practice,” Mathews said. “We want to peak for NCAAs.” 
The match against North Carolina was as motivating as it was hard fought. But instead of dwelling on the loss, the team is trying to grow from it. The girls know they have to focus in on a cou­ple of specific things to improve. 

“As a whole, we’ll be work­ing on doubles,” Mathews said. “Each person has indi­vidual things they’re going to focus on.” 
In the end, the girls may be thanking the Tar Heels for giv­ing them a wake-up call for the Big East in scoring with 
24.2 points per game. 
Considering the outcome of the last game against Cincinnati, the players say they’re looking forward to the 
game, physi­cality and all. “We know we 
Bearcats 
continued from page 24 
ior forward Tyrone Nash said coming home will help. 
“I think we play a little bet­ter at home,” Nash said. “It each other a little bit. Maybe me and Tory need to get together and get the guys together and have a heart-to­heart talk with the team.” 

Whatever they say, the team knows firsthand how tough Ci ncinnati bit down there. 

I’m really look­

ing forward to this game Thursday.” 
Nash said the physicality, while extreme due to the ath­leticism of the Bearcats, was nothing new, and he wanted revenge against them. 
“We’re going to come in here Thursday and try to beat Cincinnati because we kind of owe them from losing down there at Cincinnati,” he said. “We let that one slip away kind of and it left a sour taste in our mouth. 
“They’re tough,” Nash said. “It’s going to be gritty. It’s going to be a little war out there. That’s the Big East, that’s what we signed up for.” 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
the rest of the season. 
“I definitely think that if we get a chance to play them later in the season we could get a different result,” Mathews said. 
In the meantime, Notre Dame will focus its attention on the matches this weekend as the team travels to Kansas with a new focus and intensity. 
Contact John Helms at jhelms2@nd.edu 
Kelly 
continued from page 24 
Irish didn’t? 
Fans who complain about holes in Kelly’s class clearly have a short memory of the Charlie Weis era. 
Realize there is only one return­ing scholarship quarterback on campus right now — Kelly signed three Wednesday to correct it. There is an obvious lack of quality depth along both lines — Kelly began to remedy that by signing three bigs on each side of the ball, including enticing last-minute, Signing Day commitments from offensive lineman Matt James and defensive end Kona Schwenke. 
Say what you will about the players the Irish couldn’t quite sign, but you have to acknowledge that Kelly saw holes on his roster and plugged them with guys that, in some cases, were never on Weis’ radar. And in the case of Schwenke and athlete Danny Spond, to cite two examples, these weren’t low-rated recruits nobody else wanted, but rather guys Kelly went after aggressively and sold on Notre Dame in an incredibly short amount of time. 
It remains to be seen how Kelly recruits in a full year, but after this abbreviated cycle, I can say I have much more confidence in Kelly than I did in Weis. 
Weis drew some studs to Notre Dame, no doubt about it, and some of those guys will be assets to Kelly’s team next year. He also missed on a lot of others, but all coaches do. That’s recruiting, and it happens when you go after the biggest fish on a national scale. 
Weis’ problem was he didn’t have backup plans when he missed, and when he missed con­sistently on offensive and defen­sive linemen, there were glaring holes in the roster. 
Kelly has shown that he can not only land the studs (like James), but he can also land talented ath­letes when the likes of Seantrel Henderson, J.R. Ferguson and Christian Jones choose to go else­where (like Schwenke and Spond, among others). 
Notre Dame hasn’t had enough of these types of player over the last five years. Make no mistake 
— these guys aren’t consolation prizes. The Irish added some incredible athletes, many of whom have the frame and ability to play multiple positions on either side of the ball. And, in my opinion, Notre Dame also has the coaching staff to utilize these abilities. 
So yes, this is the best recruiting class of Kelly’s career. But his real test is to make us say the same thing about next year’s haul, and to develop these players to plug in around some of the talent already on campus. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles hold off Bulldogs to break losing streak 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
The Belles held on for a close win over conference rival Adrian 64-62 Wednesday night. 
Sophomore Kelley Murphy helped Saint Mary’s end a four-game losing streak by hitting one out of two free throws with just seconds to go to help the Belles (11-9, 6-6 MIAA) hold on to the lead en route to a conference win. 
Throughout much of the game the score remained close. Neither team could maintain a lead of five points throughout the game. Every time the Bulldogs (9-10, 5­6 MIAA) came close to a large lead, Saint Mary’s managed to remain within striking distance. This allowed them to retain their confidence level and continue to compete down the stretch. 
Sophomore Jessica Centa had a surprising game for the Belles, contributing 18 points and 10 rebounds for her first double-double. She set other career highs in the game. 
No single player dominated the game, but rather a group effort led the way for the Belles. Sophomores Patsy Mahoney and Kelley Murphy added 17 points and 14 points, respectively, to add to the team’s offensive fire­power. 
One of the keys in the game was Saint Mary’s dominance in the paint. The Belles outscored the Bulldogs 36-26 in the paint. They took advantage of their size and controlled the paint for much of the game. 
Saint Mary’s also benefited from Adrian’s mistakes. Adrian turned the ball over 30 times which resulted in 28 points for St. Mary’s. 
Saint Mary’s will host Kalamazoo Saturday at 3 p.m. in another MIAA conference show­down. 
Contact Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, February 4, 2010 
ing seniors Armando Allen and ability as well as soft hands, “He’s tough, a great competi-end in high school, but Kelly Robert Hughes. and should be able to con-tor. Really excited about having said those days should be over. 
Offense 

tribute early. Alex in the program,” Kelly “His wide receiver skills, um, WR Bennett Jackson, 6-1, In his final season Jones said. “You know, we look at the he’s tall. That’s about it. So 
continued from page 24 

170, Raritan H.S., Hazlet, N.J. caught 75 passes for 1,394 finish. That’s what we look for. these memories of him will be Very smart, very disciplined,” A versatile wide receiver yards and 18 touchdowns. It’s not necessarily the first, but etched in his mind because Kelly said. “He’s going to be prospect, Jackson should be “As you know, Tai-ler Jones, how you finish it off. He does a they’ve got no more of them,” really big. He’s going to be a used in a number of ways in father Andre Jones was a great job here finishing the Kelly said. strong player. He’s got great Kelly’s offense. As a senior, defensive end at Notre Dame block off.” feet, outstanding basketball Jackson lined up both at wide from ‘87 to ‘91. And played on Welch has a great frame and OG Christian Lombard, 6-5, player.” receiver and in the backfield, the 1988 Notre Dame National should become a powerful 293, Fremd H.S., Palatine, Ill. 
scoring nine touchdowns off Championship team. And his blocker at the collegiate level. The first commitment of this QB Tommy Rees, 6-3, 192, passes and five on the ground. godfather is former Notre Notre Dame class, Lombard Lake Forest H.S., Lake “The thing that kept bringing Dame flanker, Rocket Ismail,” OT Matt James, 6-6, 291, St. gave his verbal to the Irish Forest, Ill. us back to Bennett was his Kelly said. “With the ball in his Xavier H.S., Cincinnati, Ohio over a year ago. An Army All-
An early enrollee, Rees has a ability to have yards after the hands, he’s as explosive a play-The biggest Signing Day com-American, Lombard was also great opportunity to develop in catch,” Kelly said. “His ability er as there is in the country.” mitment for Kelly and Notre named a USA Today first team the spring as the only healthy not only to catch the football, Dame, James is rated as the All-American. scholarship quarterback on the but catch it in traffic and find WR Austin Collinsworth, 6-1, No. 14 offensive tackle in this “If you’re looking at national Irish roster. his way and sift his way 195, Highlands H.S., Fort class. A teammate of quarter-recruits, both Lombard and 
“He’s going to get an oppor-through to make plays.” Thomas, Ky. back Luke Massa, James has James fill the bill for that, and tunity to play a lot this spring,” Jackson possesses good A U.S. Army All-American, incredible size at 6-foot-7, 280 on the offensive line, that’s why Kelly said. “What a great speed at 6-foot-1 and 175 Collinsworth played safety, pounds. we’ve got some short term suc­opportunity for Tommy to get pounds, and should add anoth-wide receiver and running “At the end of the day he felt cesses and both of these guys out and play in the spring er playmaker to the new Notre back in high school, and also the opportunity here at Notre are going to help us short term game and get spring practice Dame spread offense. made appearances as a punt Dame, the academic opportuni-and in the future as we develop and develop and get stronger.” and kick returner. He was ties that it gave him, the oppor-our football program,” Kelly 
While Lake Forest struggled WR Daniel Smith, 6-4, 215, Kelly’s first commitment when tunity to play for a National said. in Rees’ senior season, the South Bend Clay H.S., South Kelly took the job at Notre Championship and knowing quarterback threw for 2,650 Bend, Ind. Dame. that there was going to be a ATH Derek Roback, 6-3, 225, yards and 24 touchdowns, One of the first verbal com-“[Collinsworth] loves to play clear opportunity for him to Waverly H.S., Waverly, Ohio completing over 75 percent of mitments to the Class of 2010, the game. [He] will be a young play here earlier,” Kelly said. A high school quarterback his passes. Smith is a local prospect with man that I think physically is With his footwork, athleti-that had been committed to 
great size. Smith should pro-going to be able to compete cism and massive frame, James Toledo, Roback joined Kelly’s RB Cameron Roberson, 6-1, vide a great red-zone threat immediately,” Kelly said. “He’s should be able to make an offense as a talented athlete 220, Newbury Park H.S., and possession receiver. got just a great love for the early impact on the Irish offen-that will be used in a number Newbury, Calif. “Obviously you can see his game.” sive line. of ways. Roback threw for 
A running back with both size. He uses it to his advan-Collinsworth’s father, Cris 1,300 yards and 15 touch-size and quickness, Roberson tage in going up and getting Collinsworth, was a NFL OT Tate Nichols, 6-7, 291, downs in his senior season, but will be the lone running back the football,” Kelly said. “Lot of receiver and now is an Ryle H.S., Union, Ky. has the size to be used as an h-in Kelly’s first class. His senior opportunities and possibilities announcer for Sunday Night After a late offer from Kelly, back in Kelly’s offense. season Roberson rushed for for Daniel.” Football on NBC. Nichols quickly switched his “Wherever they needed a 1,100 yards and 20 touch-While Clay struggled this sea-In 2009, Collinsworth had commitment from Stanford to play, he returns punts, sweeps downs, and added another two son, Smith was a rare bright 1,502 yards on 171 carries and Notre Dame. Nichols is another out the stadium after the game. touchdowns on receptions. spot, catching 60 balls for 23 touchdowns. lineman with great size at 6-He just is a guy that, you know, 
“He really impressed us. I got 1,000 yards and nine touch-foot-7 and 278 pounds. The does a little bit of everything to tell you. There was so much downs. TE Alex Welch, 6-5, 225, tackle prospect paved the way for his football team. Very ath­talk about another running Elder H.S., Cincinnati, Ohio for his Ryle High School team letic kid,” Kelly said. “We think back,” Kelly said. “We had our WR Tai-ler Jones, 6-0, 183, Another commitment from to go 9-4 his senior season. he can play probably as many sights set on Cameron Gainesville H.S., Gainesville, the Cincinnati area, Welch “When I recruited him, he as three or four positions. Roberson. You know, this is the Ga. comes from the same program was [6-foot-6], 242 pounds. We Great student, great kid. He’s guy that we felt as a staff that Another early enrollee as rising junior Kyle Rudolph. had him on the scale on his going to help our football he fit precisely what we want-already on campus, Jones was Welch is a productive all-official visit at 6-foot-7, 292 team.” ed to do in our offense.” an Under Armour All-American around tight end, and recorded [pounds]. He is one big guy,” 
Roberson will join a stable of his senior season. Jones has six touchdowns and 420 yards Kelly said. Contact Michael Bryan at talented running backs includ-great speed and route-running his senior season. Nichols played some tight mbryan@nd.edu 
Defense 
continued from page 24 
which is absolutely crucial in the cornerback position,” Kelly said. 
DB Lo Wood, 5-11, 176, Apopka H.S., Apopka, Fla. 
Wood had one interception and eight pass deflections as a senior as well as 58 tackles and five blocked kicks. His defense allowed only 86 points through the first 11 games of the season. 
“What we liked about Lo again is a very physical player, good size, and he will compete with every ball thrown,” Kelly said. 
LB Kendall Moore, 6-3, 235, Southeast Raleigh H.S., Cary, N.C. 
Moore was an All-American and first-team all-state line­backer his senior season at Southeast Raleigh, when he had 120 tackles and 10 sacks. The Charlotte Observer named him the eighth-best player in the state. 
“[He’s] a guy who will comple­ment our defensive structure,” Kelly said. “Loves to play the game, great family and someone that I really enjoyed spending time with.” 
LB Justin Utupo, 6-3, 250, Lakewood H.S., Lakewood, Calif. 
“He arrives at the ball with a bad attitude,” Kelly said. “He plays with a great passion.” 
Utupo was named Lineman of the Year by the Los Angeles Times and was a first-team all-state lineman on the Times’ all-star team. He also played tight end. 
“He tells coach [defensive coor­dinator Bob] Diaco that he’s still angry after his loss, the last game of the year,” Kelly said. “Somebody that will breathe a lot of energy and passion into the defense.” 
LB Prince Shembo, 6-2, 232, Ardrey Kell H.S., Charlotte, N.C. 
“He can come off the ball,” Kelly said. “I really like the way he explodes.” 
Shembo was an All-America team selection and rated as the 11th-best linebacker nationally by SuperPrep. 
An injured ankle kept him out of all but five games as a senior. As a junior, he made 86 tackles and had nine sacks and two interceptions. 
“Prince was another young man that we had to re-recruit and spend a lot of time with him,” Kelly said. “[He’s] another guy that can play a few different positions for us.” 
DL Louis Nix, 6-3, 315, Raines H.S., Jacksonville, Fla. 
Nix, an All-American, played in the Under Armour All-America game. He ranked No. 59 on The Sporting News top-100 list of recruits and was ESPN’s sixth-best defensive tackle. He had 50 tackles and 10 sacks in his senior year at Raines. 
“Great character kid. I think he’ll be a real asset, somebody that can come in and compete right away,” Kelly said. “Like his explosiveness.” 
DL Kona Schwenke, 6-4, 227, Kahuku H.S., Hauula, Hawaii 
Schwenke waited to sign with the Irish until Wednesday. Notre Dame recruiters were in the state looking at other players when they noticed him, Kelly said. 
“He’s a young man who came on us late. We will say that we were out in Hawaii looking at another young man and well, it’s one of those things,” he said. “Your attention now is focused on somebody else. We had such a need … for that outside guy who can come off the edge.” 
Schwenke was a first-team all-state selection and helped Kahuku to the state champi­onship game in his senior season. Rivals.com rated him as the fourth-best defensive player in Hawaii. 
DL Bruce Heggie, 6-6, 240, Mount Dora H.S., Sorrento, Fla. 
Heggie played tight end as well as defensive line and caught 16 passes for 160 yards and three touchdowns in his senior season. He had four sacks as a defensive end and ranked 10th in his class academically with a 4.2 GPA. His dad, Bruce Sr., played at Florida State. 
“He’s someone we had our eye on at Cincinnati and when it worked out that the numbers were in our favor on the defen­sive line we felt like he could do a number of things for us,” Kelly said. 
ATH Daniel Spond, 6-3, 232, Columbine H.S., Littleton, Colo. 
Spond was a first-team all-state selection and played different positions for Columbine. He played quarterback, cornerback, kicker and punter. The Denver Post tabbed him as the “best ath­lete” in the state. 
“He’s a guy that again has shown the ability to do a lot of jobs for us at the University of Notre Dame,” Kelly said. “Big kid, can play safety, outside backer.” 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  
22  23  24  25  26  27  
28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  
35  36  37  38  39  40  41  42  
43  44  45  46  
47  48  49  50  51  52  53  
54  55  56  
57  58  59  
60  61  62  63  64  65  
66  67  68  
69  70  71  

Thursday, February 4, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 23 

69 Athena’s symbol 
70 Pachacuti’s people 
71 Be in a certain mood? 
Down 
1 See 58-Down 
2 Potsdam pronoun 3 Multistep 
process starter 
4 Green crops cultivated for fodder 
5 Snorts of disdain 6 She created Hercule 7 Alternative to 
AOL or Juno 8 Bath bathroom 9 Global lending org. 
10 Cross-court items? 
11 Limb bender 
12 Detroit venue for 
sporting events and concerts 
13 Training groups 
18 It’s done for fun, for short 
19 It’s done for fun 
22 ___ Bell 
23 Psalm start 
24 AOL or Juno 
25 “Big deal” 
26 D.C. diamond squad 
32 Granny, to a 
great-aunt 
34 Ref’s call 
37 Thick-shelled 
seafood 
selection 
38 Tony-winning “Spamalot” actress Ramirez 

WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

Puzzle by Frank Longo  
40 Shelve for a  46 What Fido  58 With 1-Down,  
while 41 City in Padua province  “shakes hands” with 47 To a T 48 Abstain from  moderately sweet, to a vintner 61 Hoops coach  
42 Antique autos 43 Cry when you’ve had enough  49 Unconcerned with scruples 51 “Punk’d” host Kutcher  Kruger 62 Magazine with an annual “500” 63 La-la lead-in  
44 “Live Free or Die Hard” director  52 Some are bituminous  64 [Mumble, mumble]  
Wiseman  56 Brink  65 “Comprende?”  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554. Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sunday crosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS. AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today’s puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year). Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

CROSSWORD 
Across 
1 Small drafts 5 Vice president after Breckinridge 11 Govt. media monitor 
14 Return from a mountain? 15 Dreadful, old-
style 
16 Mauna ___ 
17 Person making 
firm decisions 
20 Wasn’t up 
21 Bobby-___ 
22 “Different strokes 
for different folks” 
27 Radius, e.g. 
28 Intensely interested 
29 Vujacic of the Los Angeles Lakers, who’s nicknamed “The Machine” 
30 Cup holders? 
31 Alternatives to cups, in dessert orders 
33 Something to throw on the BBQ 
35 Salute in stanzas 
36 Mental figures 
39 Click of condescension 

40 On the authority of 
43 It’s nothing new, with “the” 
45 Not worthless 
47 Pirate Lafitte 
50 Country statistics 
53 Maestro Klemperer 
54 Parris Isl. outfit 

55 1960s sitcom set at a camp 
57 Chew out 

59 Place to escape to 
60 Storybook group residing in this puzzle? 
66 It has a very large bed 
67 “Niagara” star, 1953 
68 Plot piece 
JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 




ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Thursday, February 4, 2010 page 24 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Three QBs, OT James lead offensive recruits 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
Four-star offensive tackle Matt James highlights the class of 13 offensive players in Brian Kelly’s first class with Notre Dame. The veteran coach will look to add these new weapons into his spread offensive sys­tem and replace the output of departed stars Jimmy Clausen and Golden Tate. 
QB Andrew Hendrix, 6-2, 215, Moeller H.S., Cincinnati, Ohio 
One of three quarterbacks signed in Brian Kelly’s first class at Notre Dame, Hendrix was ranked as the No. 11 quarterback in the Class of 2010. Hendrix has prototypical size for a quarterback and a cannon arm. 
“He’s got a very strong arm. I think what stands out about Andrew is that he’s only been a starter for a year and a half,” Kelly said. “He has not played a lot of football. His best football is clearly in front of him.” 
He led Moeller to a 9-2 record in his senior season, throwing for 1,242 yards and recording 14 total touchdowns. 
QB Luke Massa, 6-5, 205, St. Xavier H.S., Cincinnati, Ohio 
A one-time commit to Kelly at Cincinnati, Massa followed the coach to Notre Dame. Massa led football powerhouse St. Xavier to a 9-3 record and passed for 1,800 yards and 16 touchdowns. 
“He led a very, very good football team for three years as the starter. The offense changed on three occasions. 
see OFFENSE/page 22 

Class of 2014 

ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 

First class shows Kelly’s potential 
This is the best recruiting class of Brian Kelly’s 19-year head coaching career. 
Of course, it should have been. He’d never had the opportunity to deliver the Notre Dame pitch until the 


Matt Gamber
past few weeks, and despite the 
Sports Editor

team’s recent struggles, the University and the program still have an incredible package to offer high school football stars. 
There are many ways to judge the merits of this group of 23 recruits. Some will consider the circumstances of the coach­ing transition that certainly played a role in this recruiting cycle. Others will bemoan the two late de-commitments and the near misses of blue-chip­pers who signed elsewhere Wednesday. 
It’s hard enough to judge a class based on its individual players, considering these guys are 18-year-olds who have yet to strap on the pads at the col­lege level. But that is the only way to judge Kelly’s class today. 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Physical play awaits Notre Dame 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
All Big East teams play tough and physical. But the Notre Dame players say Cincinnati may be the most physical in the conference. 
“They might be one of the most physical teams in the Big East right now so it’s nothing out of the ordinary,” senior forward Luke Harangody said of the Bearcats, who face the Irish at the Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center tonight. 
The Bearcats (14-7, 5-4 Big East) are trending up right as the Irish are strug­gling. They have won three of their last four games, while Notre Dame (15-7, 4­
5) has lost four of its last five. In the Big East, that’s hard to snap out of, but jun-
see BEARCATS/page 21 


Seven months from now, the recruiting circumstances, the de-commitments and the near misses won’t have any impact on Notre Dame’s opening week game plan against Purdue. In truth, most of these 23 commit­ted players won’t either, but they’ll be on the roster and in the conversation. 
The point I’m making is that it is meaningless to judge this class by anything other than the players who compose it. It’s hard enough to break down the guys Notre Dame signed, so why waste time evaluating and complaining about those the 
see KELLY/page 21 
Defensive recruits will get chances early, often 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
And the defensive help has arrived. 
Notre Dame brought in 11 defensive recruits Wednesday, some highly rated and others lightly recruited. But each one, Irish coach Brian Kelly said, fills a role on the team. 
“Again, they fit what we’re looking for here at the University of Notre Dame,” Kelly said. “They’re going to be able to come in and represent us in the manner that we want them to do that.” 
Here’s hoping they can tackle. 
DB Chris Badger, 6-1, 192, Timpview H.S., Provo, Utah 
Badger enrolled early to Notre Dame and is already on campus working out. He was a first-team all-state defensive back and led his team to four straight state titles. He made 77 tackles and had three interceptions in his senior season. 
“I love his contact skills,” Kelly said. 
Kelly said he likes how he can play off the hash mark and attack the ball in the air. 
DB Spencer Boyd, 5-10, 175, Cape Coral H.S., Cape Coral, Fla. 
Boyd also enrolled early. He played running back as well as defensive back in high school and rushed for 516 yards and five touchdowns his senior season. He was an all-district cornerback in 2009, when Cape Coral won the state title, but he missed the playoff games due to injury. 
“What we liked again about the ability to tackle in the open field 
see DEFENSE/page 22 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Home defeat helps Irish regain focus 
By JOHN HELMS 
Sports Writer 
Coming into last weekend’s ITA Kickoff, Irish coach Jay Louderback said Irish would get their first glimpse of where they really stood among the nation’s best teams. After Notre Dame fell to No. 17 North Carolina Sunday, it found it still had some work to do to live up to its top-10 national ranking. 
For the Irish, it was their first real test of the year. The team came into the match ranked No. 6 in the nation and undefeated. A week before the girls had easily defeated Iowa and Wisconsin, and a day before the defeat girls had handled Big East rival No. 46 DePaul. But North Carolina brought a new set of chal­lenges. 
“[The Tar Heels] were very intense, we gave them credit, and they came here with confi­dence,” sophomore Shannon Mathews said. “They came out and were ready to play.” 
North Carolina won four of six singles points and earned the doubles point by taking two and three doubles. The two bright spots for Notre Dame were players Kristi Frilling and Kali Krisik, winning both at their singles positions and as a doubles pairing. Frilling is cur­rently ranked 30th in the nation. 
The rest of the girls are using this match as motivation and 
see TAR HEELS/page 21 





