the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Coalition discusses public safety, relations 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
The Community/Campus Advisory Coalition (CCAC) dis­cussed student safety and rela­tions between students and community members during a Wednesday meeting at Notre Dame’s downtown offices. 
CCAC is made up of represen­tatives from Notre Dame, Holy Cross and Saint Mary’s, repre­sentatives from South Bend city offices and agencies and other South Bend residents. 
Student body president Catherine Soler said student government has been working to improve relations with the 


ND clubs support students 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
With finals approaching, many students will begin to receive packages of study snacks and treats not only from their family, but also from their hometown’s Notre Dame Club. 
The Notre Dame Clubs, located in major areas around the country, are largely made up of alumni. Aside from the highly anticipated finals packages, many students do not know the scope of what these clubs actually do. 
Susan Darin Hagan, an adminis­trator of the Notre Dame Club of Pittsburgh, said that their send-off event for incoming freshmen each summer is key to teaching stu­dents about the Club’s existence. 
“We try to connect with students at the very beginning of their experience,” Hagan said. “That way the students start realizing there is such a thing as an alumni club and it’s active.” 
For sophomore Jill Giunco, the send-off she attended for the Notre Dame Club of the Jersey Shore helped ease some of her fears about attending school in the fall. 
“I really felt more comfortable about the ND community after seeing other kids in the same posi­tion as I was,” Giunco said. “I even met some people I’m still friends with today.” 
Hagan said the Pittsburgh club’s most popular service is the buses that they provide for the five 
see CLUBS/page 4 
community with the revamping of the Off-Campus Council. 
“We have revamped it to be more community friendly. What we’re going to do is have at least six off-campus students be neighborhood ambassadors,” she said. “[They will] be responsible for a certain area in the community where students live. Their main job will be to communicate.” 
Soler also said student gov­ernment is looking to build the relationship between students and local business through the Students for South Bend Discount Program. 
“We’re entering phase two. We have 35 participants now,” she said. “We’re trying to get a little more and really push the promotions.” 
South Bend resident Matt Costello said the relationship between students living off-campus and the community remains strong. 
“Things are still going really well in terms of partying and the peaceful neighborhood,” he said. 
Mark Kramer of Kramer Properties voiced concerns of student safety for those who make the decision to live off-campus. 
“I’ve got a concern that we’ve got cases involving students in Irish Row held at gunpoint. 
see CCAC/page 4 


SUSANNA PRATT/The Observer Notre Dame and South Bend community members discuss safety and community relations at Wednesday’s CCAC meeting. 


‘Thrown into a new job’ 
Doyle reflects on days as student body president 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Years before he was appoint­ed Vice President for Student Affairs, Fr. Tom Doyle operat­ed under a different title at Notre Dame — student body president. 
“I remember I was just a kid from a small town in Washington state. After I was elected, I was worried I was not presidential enough. I talk slow and I have sort of folksy ways about me,” Doyle said. “I remember for the first couple of months trying to be what I thought was presidential but it was so hard for me because I 
was not good at it. I was not 
good at not being myself.” Doyle served as student body 
president during his senior year at Notre Dame from 1988 to 1989, and his expe ri ­ence as an under­graduate leader stuck with 
him as he returned to campus 
to work for the University. “Whenever you are thrown into a new job or new profes­sion, there is not a platonic form of student body president or leader or priest. That role needs to become part of who you are. Coming back here to Notre Dame, I assumed a new role and have to constantly remind myself that I have to be the best version of me I can be,” Doyle said. 


Dealing with the administra­tion as a student prepared Doyle to be an administrator himself. 
“I found that the administra­tors really cared a lot about students,” Doyle said. “As I 
see DOYLE/page 5 


TRASH TO CLASS 




Professors connect via Twitter 

By SAM STRYKER  
News Writer 
Economics Professor Eric Sims started class one day last winter with a practical joke, poking fun at the search for the next Fighting Irish head football coach by stating he was interested in a job at Northwestern University. What was unique about this joke, however, was how he presented it. 
Sims used the popular social networking website Twitter to “Tweet” his joke. The social networking web­site allows participants to Tweet thoughts, post links and hold conversations, 140 characters at a time. Users can also “follow” other Twitter users. Sims is one of several professors on campus who uses the website as a tool to stay connected with students and the community outside the classroom. 
Sims said one of the bene­fits of the website is its inter­active nature. 
“It became something to post ideas or funny things. It is also a way to meet up with people on staff. It is a great way to get news,” he said. “Some students follow it, but it is really just my thoughts on the world. It is a way for me to stay connected.” 
Sims estimates of the 255 
see TWITTER/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Senate debates alcohol education page 3  Cee Lo Green solo album review page 9  Women’s basketball loses to Baylor page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Thursday, December 2, 2010 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU DO TO KEEP WAR ?
THE OBSERVER 






P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Laura McCrystal Allan Joseph John Cameron Matt Robison Sara Felsenstein Joe Wirth 

Graphics Scene 
Lisa Hoeynck Alex Kirpatrick 

Photo Viewpoint 
Tom La Ren Brauweiler 



OFFBEAT 
NYC bees turn red from cherry juice 
NEW YORK — A bunch of Brooklyn bees have been coming home looking flushed. 
New York City beekeeper Cerise (seh-REEZ’) Mayo was puzzled when her bees started showing up with mysterious red coloring. Their honey also turned as red as cough syrup. She tells The New York Times a friend joked that the bees were imbibing the runoff at Dell’s Maraschino Cherries Company, in the Red Hook section of Brooklyn. Mayo — whose first name means “cherry” in French — raises bees in that neighborhood and across the water on Governor’s Island. 

Aaron Grinsteinner  Amy Grinsteinner  Erika Schults  Kate Von Hoffman  Niall Cochrane  
freshman  senior  senior  senior  freshman  
Keough  Ryan  Ryan  McGlinn  Keough  

“I cuddle with “Cuddle with “Snugglefest “I don’t...” “I wear my Niall Erika and Dave with the snowboarding Cochrane.” Flemming.” Grinsteinners” jacket.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

Tests confirmed the bees were riddled with Red Dye No. 40 — the same food col­oring found in the cherry juice. Bee expert Andrew Cote tells the newspaper that bees had been creating a big nuisance at the factory. 
The solution? Put up screens or provide a closer source of sweet nectar. 
Pa. woman rescued from pickup stuck in tree top 
EVANS CITY, Pa. — Rescue crews had to use ropes and ladders to retrieve a western Pennsylvania woman from her pickup truck after it ran off a road and landed in tree tops about 30 feet above ground in a ravine. 
Police say they’ll be citing 33-year-old Dana Bowser for driving too fast for conditions on Route 68 near Evans City. That’s about 25 miles north of Pittsburgh. 
State police say Bowser lost control near a culvert that carries the highway over Connoquenessing (kaw-nuh­kwah-NESS’-ing) Creek. Police say Bowser told them the road was icy. 
Rescue workers say Bowser was conscious and able to communicate with workers. Most importantly, they say she didn’t panic as they worked to reach her in the precarious position. 
She was taken to Butler Memorial Hospital with minor injuries. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
Pasquerilla East Hall’s annu­al signature event “Silent Night, Silent Auction” will take place today from 6 to 9 
p.m. 
Attendants can bid on Christmas baskets with the proceeds going to St. Margaret’s House and Building Tomorrow. The event will be in the Ballroom of LaFortune Student Center. 

Ragnhild Nordas, senior research of the Peace Research Institute in Oslo, will give a lecture called “Religion and Intrastate Armed Conflict” tomorrow. The lec­ture will take place at 12:30 

p.m. 
in the Hesburgh Center and is presented by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies 


The annual Jingle Jog will begin today at 7 p.m. in front of South Dining Hall. The race is a 5K and is sponsored by teh Alumni/Student Club. 
The Undertones Christmas Concert will take place tomor­row at 8 p.m. at the Washington Hall Main Stage. Tickets are $5 a piece and can be purchased at the LaFortune Box Office or from any of the Undertones. 
The Notre Dame Chorale and Chamber Choir presents “Handel’s Messiah,” tomorrow at 8 p.m. Tickets are $12 and $3 for students. 
Recsports will offer a free class, “Poolates®,” this Sunday from 1 to 1:45 p.m. Poolates® is soothing to the mind and spirit and gentler on joints and muscles than land-based exercises. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight FRIDAY saturday Sunday monday 



CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 


31 25 HIGH 3229 2927
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


22 20 LOW 2523 2220 







Thursday, December 2, 2010 The Observer . NEWS page 3 


STUDENT SENATE 

STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 




Students attend forum, 


Groupdebatesalcoholissues 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Student Senate debated improvements to alcohol education and made further changes to the process for undergraduate elections Wednesday. 
Senators reported feed ­back from their dorms about the way program such as “College HAS Issues” and Peers Inspiring Listening, Learning and Responsible Socializing (PILLARS) edu­cate students about drinking. 
Student body vice presi­dent Andrew Bell said stu­dent government would like to improve alcohol educa­tion. 
“We bring these issues up because we now have a Campus Life Council (CLC) task force that is addressing the culture of drinking on campus, and we thought a good place to start would be alcohol education,” Bell said. “We are looking at an overview of the way students learn about drinking.” 
Some senators said stu­dents in their dorms felt overwhelmed by the amount of alcohol education at the beginning of their freshman year but did not see much education after first week of school. Siegfried senator Kevin McDermott said fresh­men found the “College HAS Issues” seminar to be repeti­tive. 
Senators also suggested ways to expand alcohol edu­cation. 
Carroll Hall senator John Sanders said more education on Indiana State laws would be especially relevant to stu­dents at Notre Dame. 
Cavanaugh senator Tegan Chapman said her dorm asked about the signs of alcohol poisoning, and Farley senator Leslie Tatlow was concerned about med­ical amnesty. 
“A lot of the girls in my dorm wanted to know what to do if a friend is sick [after drinking] but you are wor­
ried about getting in troubl e,” Tatlow said. 
Chief of staff Nick Ruof said a formal med­ical amnesty policy was not put into place last year after student gov­ernment dis­cussed the issue with the adminis­tration. 
“What we came to real­ize is that in ate elections. Oversight chair 


discuss suggestions 
Paige Becker and Judicial 
Council president Marcelo Perez presented the changes to the senators. 
The Senate passed a reso­lution earlier this month to create an Executive Committee to deal with alle­gations made against candi­dates for election. 
One of the most significant changes to the constitution related to campaigning on 


By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary’s College Student Government Association (SGA) held an open forum Wednesday to allow stu­dents to voice their opinions and share ideas. 
The forum, held in the SGA 
“We bring these issues up becuase we now have a Campus Life Council task force that is addressing the culture of drinking on campus and we thought a good place to start would be alcohol education.” 
Andrew Bell student body 
election day. 
Office, offered students a 
P r e v i o u s l y, 
chance to discuss suggestions 
the Judicial 
for the future as to enhance 
Council could 
their experiences at the 
sanction a can-
College. 
didate if a sup-
SGA also offered a suggestion 
porter posted 
basket in the Noble Family 
the voting link 
Dining Hall this week to allow 
in a Facebook 
students who were unable to 
status on the 
attend the forum to voice their 
day of an elec­
opinions. 
tion, Becker 
“We wanted to make sure 
said. Now, the 
that the student body knew 
link will only be 
that we were open, visible, 
accessible 
[and] we wanted to hear from 
through an e-
them,” student body president 
mail to stu ­
Rachael Chesley said. 
dents. 
A handful of students attend­
“One of the 
ed the forum, but SGA dis-
positive things 
cussed the suggestions that 
we felt about 
were left in the Dining Hall. 
this change was 
Karen Borja, a senior at the 
a ResLife meeting [the administration] takes into consideration the entire situ­ation,” Ruof said. “You should be worried about your friends’ health over getting in trouble.” 
Student government will continue to look at alcohol education and try to improve, Bell said. 
The Student Senate also passed a resolution to change several clauses in the constitution on undergradu­that the link to the voting website only goes out to the student body through an e­mail from Judicial Council,” Becker said. “Candidates are not allowed to provide this link to anyone else.” 
Changes were also made to reformat and clarify parts of the constitution. The resolu­tion passed with 25 votes in favor. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
allowing allotments in the Spring semester as well as the fall. 
“Since you brought it up, it’s definitely something we will discuss,” student body vice president Laura Smith said. 
Chesley read the suggestions from the suggestion basket and the Board talked about the issues. Student attendees also participated in the discussion. 
Chesley said the suggestions requested changes and addi­tions to campus. 
“I think a lot of people looked at this like a wish list too, like a Santa wish list,” Chesley said. 
One suggestion was the addi­tion of more bike racks on campus. 
“These are great ideas to jumpstart next semester,” Chesley said. 
In addition, SGA discussed printer availability on campus. 
“In Trumper [Computer Center], only one of the print­ers is ever working,” senior class president Kelly Lyons said. 
Students said the College should offer more printers for the student body’s use. 
“To have one printer servic­ing our entire school is a little absurd,” junior Jamie Schmidt said. 
SGA plans to discuss stu­dents’ ideas further at their next meeting and throughout the Spring semester. SGA will hold a Dec. 8 meeting. 
“Our meetings are always open,” Chesley said. 

Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
College and president of the Saint Mary’s Straight and Gay Alliance (SAGA), attended the forum. 
“You guys are doing a really good job this year and I’m real­ly impressed,” Borja said. 
Borja also voiced her concern about the allotment of funding this academic year. 
“I want my money to go towards things that I want to see on campus,” Borja said. 
Borja asked the Board if they would be willing to consider 




Madrigals return to Collegefor38thyear 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
St. Mary’s Editor 
The holidays are a time of tradition, and Saint Mary’s College has celebrated the Christmas season with its Madrigal Christmas Dinners for the past 38 years. 
Nancy Menk, a Saint Mary’s music professor and musical director for the Madrigal singers in the show, said the dinner show is a “festive” occa­sion. 
“People come back year after year for the show,” Menk said. “It becomes part of their Christmas tradition for some.” 
The shows will be held in Regina North Lounge in Regina Hall Dec. 3 and 4 at 7 p.m. and Dec. 5 at 2 p.m. 
According to Menk, Regina North has been “transformed” for the dinners. 
“It’s completely redecorated. There are wreaths and gar­lands and it is bathed in candle­light,” Menk said. “It looks like a Renaissance banquet hall.” 
The Renaissance theme of the event is carried throughout the show and the menu. “Welcome, welcome, every guest, welcome to our music feast. Music is our only cheer; fill both soul and ravished ear,” the event’s invi­tation reads. “The performers strive to make it as authentic as possible, Gwen O’Brien, Saint Mary’s director of media rela­tions, said. 
“This holiday favorite ‘trans­ports’ guests to a medieval cas­tle where a grand meal is served as the master of the house greets his guests, jug­glers perform and groups of singers burst into song,” O’Brien said. 
“The Saint Mary’s College Madrigal Singers — joined by the Early Music Ensemble from Andrews University — perform music of the Middle Ages and Renaissance in a 21st century reenactment of the Renaissance feasts hosted in the great baro­nial halls throughout England during the 12 days of Christmas,” O’Brien said. 
The event includes dinner and a show, put on mostly by students, she said. It will fea­ture the Saint Mary’s women’s choir, theater students and Andrews University students will play period instruments. 
The singers and actors have been preparing since October, O’Brien said. 
“It’s a good chance for stu­dents to learn earlier pieces … sing a cappella and perform undirected,” Menk said. 

Contact Ashkey Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, December 2, 2010 


CCAC 
continued from page 1 
got cases involving students in Irish Row held at gunpoint. That’s a real concern. We’re talking about safety,” he said. “When you read and hear about that, that is scary. I just wonder what you can do to prevent that.” 
Captain Robert Hammer of the South Bend Police Department said students need to be vigilant when they spend time off campus. 
“The biggest message to everyone, especially students, is they pay attention to security, locking doors and leaving lights on,” he said. “Know the area you are in, and don’t go out alone.” 
He said students often are not accustomed to living in areas with safety issues such as South Bend. 
“There are a lot of things kids haven’t been exposed to that are in the environment they are now living in,” Hammer said. 
Tim Sexton, Notre Dame Assistant Vice President of Public Affairs, said the University is working to create a system of off-campus safety. 
“We’ve been trying to grow a neighborhood watch program. We’re hoping that there is rein­forcement that we are paying attention,” he said. “We want things to change.” 
Sexton said students must continue to be alert in their time off-campus. 
“I think there is awareness you need to take responsibility for,” he said. 
The Coalition discussed the issue of students walking back to campus instead of taking a taxicab. The group found this was a contributor to off-campus safety issues. 
Carolina Arroyo, Associate Director of Undergraduate Studies, said cabs sometimes overcharge students, deterring them from taking a taxi back to campus. 
“If students can take a cab and know they won’t get over­charged, I think that will help the safety issue,” she said. 
City Council Member Buddy Kirsits said the CCAC would strive to work towards a secure community. 
“The goal of this group is safe­ty. It’s about making students and residents safe,” he said. 
The CCAC’s next meeting will be Jan. 26, 2011. 

Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 


future. maybe pass out a business card here so in the past we’ve usually “I do believe Twitter will and get some questions answered,” gone with students who have a

Twitter Clubs

be a powerful networking Hagan said. place to stay,” Stein said. tool as far as staying in Katherine Piscopo Stein, presi-Additionally,theLongIslandClub 
continued from page 1 continued from page 1 

touch with old friends as dent of the Notre Dame Club of sponsors pizza breaks during study people who follow him on well as making new busi-year breaks. Long Island, said her club also tries days and activities for students to the website, at least 10 to ness opportunities, ” he “Ithinkthe students like it, butI tohelpstudentswithnetworking. participate in while at home, Stein 20 are current or past stu-said. “The way Twitter know the parents love it,” Hagan “If students want internships or said. These events in New York dents. In addition to stu-works is somewhat like a said. “Cleveland is on the way to jobs, we encourage them to contact take place not only over the sum-dents, Sims said he has one ripple effect, because you Pittsburgh, so I’ll even have stu-us,” Stein said. “It really depends mer but also over breaks. follower with a high profile start to follow followers of dents from Cleveland asking if they on what the student needs, but “Two years ago when Notre on campus. your followers and people can pay the full amount and be we’ll do what we can.” Dame [basketball] played St. 
“Brian Kelly follows me on you follow.” dropped off along the way.” The Notre Dame Clubs are also John’s, we did a big event since it Twitter. He follows 91 peo-Phillips said though Another service the Pittsburgh involved in organizing the was over winter break,” Stein said. ple and has around 20,000 Twitter is important for club provides for the parents is University’s Summer Service “All the current students were followers. I am one of the business networking, she assisting them in buying tickets for Learning Programs. Hagan said invited.” 91,” he said. has not had success with football games. Hagan said parents this is one of the most time-con-While still at school, students are 
Senior Brad Adamo, who the website as a classroom are only offered tickets for certain suming activities the Pittsburgh looking forward to pizza from the follows Sims, sees Twitter tool. games, so the club tries to help Club organizes. clubs during finals week. as an excellent way for stu-“I have found students at them find tickets if the would like to “We tailor our SSLP to the actual Sophomore Chris Carr said he dents to stay connected Notre Dame aren’t as inter-visit the University a different students and what their desires enjoys receiving packages from the with professors over the ested in it, ” she said. “I weekend. are,” Hagan said. “We spend time Notre Dame Club of Detroit during course of their academic have students that follow Another main event for the convincing places to allow our stu-finals. career. me, but I don’t use it exclu-Pittsburgh club is its networking dents to come in and work for eight “It’s just a nice thing to get rid of 
“It’s difficult to stay in sively for class.” evenings. The club brings in pro-weeks.” some of the stress from finals and touch and or build a rela-Adamo said a reason stu-fessionals from various fields to For the Long Island Club, Stein studying,” Carr said. tionship with professors in dents may not see much meetcurrentstudents,Hagansaid. said most of their SSLP students general and even more so purpose in Twitter academi-“It’s not solely to find jobs but are Long Island natives. Contact Melissa Flanagan at after you’ve finished taking cally is its similarity to pre-really more to make some contacts, “We can’t really dorm someone mfanag3@nd.edu their classes,” he said. “I existing technology. think that Twitter is a great “Twitter is definitely an way to interact with profes-expedient way to dissemi­sors outside of the academic nate information but I don’t sphere.” know if it would be any 
Marketing Professor Carol more effective than e-mail,” Phillips believes the social he said. “Then again, it networking site also pos-could be interesting to have sesses a value to her career. to Tweet a discussion ques­
“I use it mostly for busi-tion. I think it’s definitely ness. I have a consulting worth a try.” business, and I Tweet about Sims said Twitter is things I am interested in,” becoming an important she said. “It allows me to source for current events. have a much bigger commu-“It condenses thoughts nity of people who are and information from a lot interested in the things I am of people in a small space. interested in.” There are webs of connec-
Phillips, who has been tion, ” he said. “People using the site for two years aren’t trying to hide stuff. and has 5,000 followers, All the news sources have said students should consid-one, and it’s a great pool of er opening a Twitter information.” account for future employ-In addition to the useful­ment opportunities. ness of the site for her 
“Showing an ability to use career, Phillips said the social media such as Twitter enjoyable nature of the is important to employers. website is part of the rea-Twitter is about extending son she continues to use it. your network,” she said. “It is really fun. I check it “I’ve met people I wouldn’t before I check my e-mail. have met another way.” My husband knows to reach 
Mark Galano, a junior me he should Tweet and not who follows Sims on e-mail,” she said. “Anyone Twitter, said he believes the can follow me.” website will prove impor­tant for social and employ-Contact Sam Stryker at ment purposes in the sstryke1@nd.edu 




Thursday, December 2, 2010 The Observer  NEWS page 5 

Doyle 
continued from page 1 
think about myself now, I hope I am as good at under­standing and navigating for stu­dents as an administrator as my administrators were for me.” 
Doyle said he also learned how to handle criticism during his time as student body presi­dent. 
“It is not such a terrible thing to have people critique or dis­agree or take issue with what you are doing or the way you are doing it,” he said. “You have to be convicted that you are following the values that you think are important to you and the promises you have made.” 
Doyle began his career in stu­dent government as the presi­dent of Grace Hall during his junior year. Michael Paese, a friend of Doyle’s, suggested the two run for student body presi­dent and vice president despite their limited student govern­ment experience. 
“We were outsiders. We were not student government insid­ers,” Doyle said. “We did not know how everything ran. But we kept talking about it.” 
Despite his misgivings, Doyle and Paese turned their conver­sations into a campaign. During the weeks leading up to their election, the team campaigned by knocking on the door to every room in every residence hall. 
Doyle said he and Paese saw the 1988 presidential election between Ronald Reagan and George H.W. Bush as an impor­tant part of their own term. The team led a voter registration and education drive, which reg­istered over 2,000 students to vote, and held debates on elec­tion issues. 
“It was our insight that Notre Dame is the premier Catholic university in the country,” he said. “Notre Dame and Notre Dame students should be at the forefront of issues that affect our country.” 
Doyle said many of the same issues mattered students dur­ing his term are still important for the current student body. Current student body president Catherine Soler and vice presi­dent Andrew Bell focused on community relations after a spike in student arrests and tensions with South Bend police at the beginning of the year, and problems between students and police plagued Doyle’s administration as well. 
“One of the things that we had to deal with in the fall was police and student issues as well. The issue was that they were using dogs to break up the parties,” Doyle said. “I only wish that we were as effective as this year’s student govern­ment at being a good broker and convoy between the South Bend police and the student body. These issues will come up again and again.” 
Doyle said the current offi­cers deserved praise for smoothing tensions between campus and its neighbors in South Bend. 
“Especially with a lot of the off-campus issues, the reason that we have found a bit of a détente with law enforcement has to do with Catherine and Andrew and how they have been leaders among their peers,” Doyle said. 
Doyle dealt with practical problems on campus as well as larger issues in the community. His administration set up the first campus 24-hour space out­side the dorms, rented more portable toilets for football tail­gaters and surveyed students on the University’s alcohol poli­cy. 
An editorial printed in the April 4, 1989, issue of The Observer said Doyle and Paese were “a tough act to follow.” 
Doyle said his position was taxing, but his year with Paese taught him the value of work­ing with a trustworthy partner. 
“If you are going to do any­thing that is going to be stretch­ing or challenging, make sure you do it with somebody whose deepest values align with yours,” Doyle said. 
Doyle and Paese built their success on a friendship that remains after almost 25 years. 
“[Paese] was a smart, articu­late, fast-talking Italian from the East Coast, and I was a much slower, simple, nice guy from a little town in Washington state,” Doyle said. “In a lot of ways we could not have been more different from each other, but together we made a pretty good team.” 
Despite the lessons Doyle learned during his term, he joked that the immediate rewards of his election were not what he expected. 
“As student body president, I thought my social life would improve,” he said. “Being elect­ed was not worth it for the 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 



European police pursue WikiLeaks founder 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — WikiLeaks was on the defensive on sever­al fronts Wednesday, scram­bling to remain on the Internet and post more U.S. diplomatic documents while its fugitive founder Julian Assange was targeted by a European arrest warrant on Swedish rape charges. 
Amazon.com Inc. prevented WikiLeaks from using the U.S. company’s computers to dis­tribute embarrassing State Department communications and other documents, WikiLeaks said Wednesday. The WikiLeaks site was unavailable for several hours before it moved back to servers owned by its previous Swedish host, Bahnhof, which are housed in a protective Cold-War era bunker. 
At the same time, Swedish officials intensified legal pres­sure on Assange by asking European police to arrest him on rape allegations that have shadowed him for weeks. Swedish Director of Public Prosecution Marianne Ny said that the European arrest war­rant had been issued for Assange in connection with the allegations filed against him in that country. 
Amazon’s move to kick WikiLeaks off its servers came after congressional staff called the company Tuesday to inquire about its relationship with WikiLeaks, Sen. Joe Lieberman, the Connecticut independent, said Wednesday. 
“The company’s decision to cut off Wikileaks now is the right decision and should set the standard for other compa­nies Wikileaks is using to dis­tribute its illegally seized material,” Lieberman said in a statement. He added that he would have further questions for Amazon about its dealings with WikiLeaks. 
The White House said Wednesday it was taking new steps to protect government secrets after WikiLeaks release of thousands of sensi­tive U.S. diplomatic cables. Officials said national security adviser Tom Donilon has appointed a senior aide to identify and develop reforms needed in light of the docu­ment dump. 
The White House also spurned a call from Assange for Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton to step down if she had any role in directing 
U.S. diplomats’ spying on other foreign leaders. “Mr. Assange’s suggestion is ridiculous and absurd, and why anyone would find his opinion here relevant is baffling,” said spokesman Tommy Vietor, adding Clinton was doing an “extraordinary” job. The White House says U.S. diplomats do not engage in spying. 


The Observer 





Viewpoint 
page 6 Thursday, December 2, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Where’s Tiger? 
When people looked ahead to the 2010 schedule and saw Augusta, Pebble Beach, St. Andrews and Whistling Straits, the speculation of a calendar year grand slam began. His performances in 2000 at Pebble Joe Wirth and St. Andrews 
Sports 
were as close as 
Production 
one can get to 
Editor 
attaining perfec­tion in golf. Tiger, himself, probably saw this as his best chance to win all four majors in the same year. His goals for this 2010 sea­son were put on the shelf on the night of Thanksgiving 2009. 
Last Thursday marked the one-year anniversary of Tiger Woods’ infamous car crash. Since that night Woods’ personal life has spent more time in the tabloids than the Kardashians’. Prior to Thanksgiving 2009, Tiger Woods was one of the most liked, and certainly most famous, athletes in the world. This incident, and the revela­tions that came after, caused the most dramatic fall from grace of any ath­lete in recent memory. Prior to run­ning his car over a neighbor’s fire hydrant, he was marketing gold. He was the face of Buick, Accenture, Tag Huer and Nike, among others. In the aftermath, Nike is the only sponsor that has stuck with him. In the past year we have witnessed him choreo­graph a half-hearted apology in front of a national television audience, a failed Nike commercial with his deceased father narrating the script and his loss of credibility in the eyes of the American public. 
What made him so great was his mental strength. Golf can be the most unnerving sport, but he always kept his cool and seemed to be able to con­trol the uncontrollable. He was able to do things with a golf ball that other professionals only dreamed about. The question was not if he would break Jack Nicklaus’ record of 18 major championships, but when. This incident changed all of that. For the first time since turning professional, he went through a season without recording one victory. Some speculat­ed life between the ropes would be his sanctuary, a place where he could find some sense of normalcy in his chaotic life. His return at the Masters this year was one of the most anticipated sporting events of 2010. There were some glimpses that he would return to form. He came in fourth in both the Masters and the U.S. Open. There were other times, however, that the only way you could tell that it was Tiger playing was by the swoosh on his hat. There was the manhood-rob­bing 18 over he shot at the Bridgestone Invitational and not qual­ifying for the final two events of the FedEx Cup. 
In the past, he had his competition beat before they reached the first tee. Now, for the first time in his career, he seems mortal and more beatable than ever. The consensus among most golf experts is that he will return to form in the upcoming 2011 season. He is Tiger after all — if anybody can come back from those depths, it is he. With time and dedication he will put his professional life back together. The question is, is he willing to put in that same time and dedication to piece his personal life back together? 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 


Comprehensive immigration 
When it comes to the issue of illegal immigration, there are many different voices with valid points trying to talk over each other at the same time. Everyone is concerned about aspects that really matter. How can you tell the family that has been affected by drug war violence that the border is not an issue? How can you tell mil­lions of people to just up and leave? How can Mark Easley you stop people 

Elephant in 
from trying to get 
the Room 
their own piece of the American Dream? There are real issues at stake and many good people stuck in the crossfire, but we need to have a solu­tion soon if we want to move forward. 
Many are calling for strong border security, and those concerns are very valid. Countless tons of drugs, count­less illegal immigrants, and countless weapons cross the border every single day. This is causing stress on the nation, financial and social stress on border towns and states and creates danger for Mexicans and Americans. Day after day we hear of the unspeak­able drug violence in Mexico and fear that it might spill over to our side. Living in fear is not tolerable, and hav­ing essentially a war take place next door is not sustainable. Border States have seen rising murder and kidnap­ping rates as criminals from the south permeate the rich drug markets of the 



EDITORIAL CARTOON 

reform 
north. The federal government has a duty to enforce our borders and protect our citizens from foreign violence, but they have failed to do so, which is why states are desperately trying to correct the problem themselves with legislation like Arizona’s SB1070. Border security needs to be solved before any other type of solution can be implemented. Otherwise, our children are going to have the same issues we are having now, but worse. 
Many are calling for amnesty, because America needs the workers and there is sympathy for hard work­ing immigrants who come to this coun­try to prosper, and those concerns are valid. There are many Mexican and South American people who cross the border illegally that have honest inten­tions. They come to escape poverty and oppression, just as many of our ances­tors did. Their illegal status opens them up to exploitation as well as a constant anxiety over being discovered and deported. These people need to be addressed and not forgotten or ignored. In the old days, immigrants simply signed their name in a book at Ellis Island and immediately were left to fend for themselves. How is this much different from modern illegal immigrants? Often these hardworking immigrants contribute to society and take the harder, unskilled jobs that are not desirable. This keeps wage infla­tion low and improves the nation’s overall quality of life. America is built with the labor of hardworking immi­grants, and as their children grow up in our systems and schools they will achieve higher levels in our society than their parents. What we need is a way to legalize and keep these good people in the country, and kick out the bad ones. 
Comprehensive immigration reform requires that these two sides be addressed simultaneously. We need to be hard line on border security. Military presence on the border, a great wall of America, or other ways to stop the influx must be implemented immediately. Continuing the status quo of easily crossed borders will bring vio­lence and financial and societal stress to even more unsustainable levels. We need to also address the people already here and show our compassionate side and fiscal reasoning. We should issue amnesty to those with a good track record, but with caveats since they still have broken our laws. Citizenship can be earned quickly with military service or by the slower traditional method. Just because you live next door does not mean you should have an easier time to immigrate to this country than the millions of others who wish every day they could move here. Illegals should not be able to continue to cut in line in front of those who follow our laws and have to wait months and years for approval. 
Immigration and border security will continue to be an issue until we address these two subjects head on. 
Mark Easley is a junior majoring in computer science. He can be reached at measley@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Love is an act of endless forgiveness, a tender look which becomes a habit.” 
Peter Ustinov English author 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Life is a risk.” 

Diane Von FurstenbergBelgian fashion designer 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Thursday, December 2, 2010 page 7 
Singing in tune 
A full orchestra tuning their instruments prior to the start of a concert sounds utterly peaceful to my ears. Violins, cellos, flutes, horns and a host of other instru­ments adjust their pitches in preparation for a night of music. The brass, Meg Mirshak the upper and lower strings, the Faithpoint wind and the percussion instruments “tune up” to make one per­fectly harmonious and beautiful sound. 
From my seat in a concert hall, I often find myself with large eyes and a slight grin in awe of the sound and sight on stage. How is it that a multitude of instru­ments all comprised of varying materials and components create a united sound of heavenly bliss? 
During this liturgical season of Advent, we prepare ourselves for the calm and silent night when Christ the Lord is born into our world. Churches across the globe will be filled with trumpets and song for the newborn Savior. We will praise God with the voice of the angels proclaiming, “Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among those whom he favors.” 
The Christ-child born on that night ful­fills God’s promise of a king to save the nations. He will rule over a kingdom where peace and goodness alone prevail. 
Before jumping ahead on the calendar, let us rewind to the second reading for this coming Sunday, the second week of Advent: 
“May the God of endurance and encour­agement grant you to think in harmony with one another, in keeping with Christ Jesus, that with one accord you may with one voice glorify the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.” (Romans 15: 5-6) 
Even in the midst of stressful academic weeks and pre-Christmas festivities, these verses provide us a simple approach to the Advent season. We are a multitude of people comprised of various talents, tastes, habits, and limitations. Oftentimes, we desire to serve own wants first, yet we must think of others needs before our own. We must attune our hearts and minds to the way and the will of the Lord. 
Sometimes we only need a little tweak­ing to align our lives with God’s song of unity and peace. Take what does not look or sound so beautiful in your life and make a minor adjustment, like the instru­ments of an orchestra. Here are a few suggestions among countless opportuni­ties on campus for finding peace in the Advent of Christ’s coming: 

• 
Focus on forgiveness. Attend reconcili­ation at the Basilica or seek forgiveness from a friend. Examine your own life for ways you can repent. 

• 
Bestow goodness on others. In grati­tude for the gifts you have been given, find an opportunity to pay forward an act of kindness. The Center for Social Concerns is sponsoring a coat drive through Dec. 10. 

• 
Pray in silence. Bring peace to your heart by attending a campus-wide Lucernarium prayer service in Lewis Hall Chapel on Monday night at 10 p.m. If you cannot make it, gather around the Advent wreath in your dorm chapel at your own time. 

• 
Live in joy. Sing together with friends and support the Holy Cross Missions in Uganda by attending Christmas at the CoMo, a music concert by the Celebration Choir on Dec. 8 at 7:30 p.m. 


Undoubtedly it is a difficult time to draw our attention away from the stress and pressures of the next few weeks. That makes just one half-hour opportunity focusing on God and the coming of Christ all the more rewarding. 
An orchestra that neglects to tune its instruments plays a dastardly out-of-tune performance. A people that disregards the Advent weeks of preparation risk losing the peaceful sound reverberating on Christmas night. 
We bring peace on earth when we act with one accord and one voice, as one people. Our campus will be ready for the joyful spirit of Christ’s coming, if we make adjustments to our instruments during the Advent season. Then we can carry on the peaceful spirits to our homes and church­es as Christ’s birth draws near. 
This week’s Faithpoint is written by Meg Mirshak, intern in the Office of Campus Ministry. She can be reached at mmirshak@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
A letter for Declan 
Dear Fr. John Jenkins, 
I am writing to you today with the hope of suggesting a way for our great University to honor one of its fallen stu­dents, Declan Sullivan. After his tragic death on cam-
William
pus in October, I have spoken to Teschke several mem-
Guest 
bers of the 
Columnist 
Notre Dame family about the possibility that the University might name the street near the practice field after him, in remembrance of Declan. The possibility dawned on me when I learned of a similar tragedy that previously occurred. It recently became aware to me that Melissa Cook Stadium on Notre Dame’s campus is named after former Notre Dame student Melissa Cook, who played softball while she was a student here and was tragically killed by falling scaffolding in Chicago eight years ago. 
Unspeakable tragedies such as Declan and Melissa’s should give way to two things. They should force us to take a step back and remember how sacred and fragile life is, while also reminding us to cherish and make purposeful every sub­sequent day that we are given. Secondly, they should force us to examine why such a tragedy took place, how it could have been prevented and how we must do everything in our power to ensure that such an event will never take place again. Apart from these things, all we can really do in instances of such tragedy is support each other, grieve and remember and cel­ebrate the beautiful lives that were. 
If there is anything I have learned from my 21 years in this world, and especially my three-plus years at this University, it is that life is beautiful and sacred. I have found myself increasingly in awe of life itself, and consequently in equal shock when a life so young and vibrant is cut short for no apparent reason. By all accounts, Declan Sullivan was a brilliant and vivacious young man with an admira­tion for and understanding of life beyond his years. It is of paramount importance that in response to this tragedy we all remember, honor and celebrate the life of Declan Sullivan. 
I am as aware as anybody that much has already been done to remember Declan. I’m sure the Mass of Remembrance, The Observer’s tribute and the gold helmets adorned with the initials “DS” worn by our football team all made Declan smile, and that they were much appreciated by his family. There is no doubt in my mind that each of these acts was with the loving intention of remembering and celebrating Declan’s life. I have also heard of other possible actions that may be taken in Declan’s memory, including a scholarship in his name. My reason for writing is simple. Declan was a student at this University and thus will forever be a part of Notre Dame. Yet sadly, he will never get the opportunity to walk across a stage and receive a diploma from the University of Notre Dame. He will not get the opportu­nity to go out into the world and use his many talents and his Notre Dame educa­tion for the betterment of himself and others. Declan has tragically been denied so many opportunities in what appeared to be such a bright future; therefore, there should be no shortness of things that we as his brothers and sisters in Notre Dame are willing to do to make sure that he is forever part of Notre Dame. Naming a street running through the University in Declan’s honor should by no means be the last thing we do in Declan’s honor. However, naming a street after Declan Sullivan is a simple and last­ing gesture we can take to forever make Declan a part of the Notre Dame campus, a campus he once called home. After all, Declan typified the Notre Dame spirit — why shouldn’t he become a part of it? 
Since Declan’s death, we have all been aware of the exhaustive media coverage, the criticism and the finger-pointing asso­ciated with it. Much of this criticism has been about Notre Dame, our practices and the University staff and administra­tors. I only bother to mention it at all because I fear that it may have shifted attention away from Declan himself. The fact of the matter is, Father, that what happened on that afternoon isn’t really about anyone at Notre Dame other than Declan himself. And so it is with remem­brance and celebration of Declan in mind that I implore you to consider permanent­ly naming the stretch of road between the outdoor practice fields and the Guglielmino Athletics Complex “Declan Sullivan Way” in his honor. You alluded to our faith as members of the Notre Dame family that Declan is now in the loving embrace of the Lord — let him also be forever in the hearts and minds of all those that pass through Our Lady’s University. 
William Teschke is a senior majoring in business. He can be reached at wteschke@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


Dialogue and hospitality 
Last week these pages includ­ed coverage of the “Contending Modernities” research initiative and its opening conference in New York. But the conversation that “began” DeVan Ard there is 
Guest 

hardly new 
Columnist 

to Notre Dame. The address given by Fr. Jenkins was part of a longer contribution to interreligious scholarship and dialogue led by another Notre Dame theologian, Fr. David Burrell. A self-described “Mediterranean person,” Fr. Burrell is an emeritus Professor in Theology and Philosophy, and he served at the Tantur Ecumenical Institute in Jerusalem for over 25 years. He was recently the central figure of a small colloquium held in the Catholic center at Northwestern University, in Evanston, IL. 
Over a year ago, before I came to Notre Dame, I had been told to meet Fr. Burrell. My flight into Chicago from home made the quick jaunt to Evanston easy, so I dropped by the collo­quium. It was organized by Garrett Methodist seminary, and it allowed any interested to lis­ten as Burrell shared his thoughts on the foundations of interfaith dialogue. In conversa­tion with him were a professor of Jewish philosophy from Northwestern and an Islamicist from Loyola Chicago. Their dis­cussion was thoughtful and seri­ous, but the terrain was well-trod — medieval discussions of creation, differing conceptions of the Messiah and views of post-secularity (post-Christianity?) 
Fr. Burrell is a warm and gre­garious man with a seemingly endless reserve of stories from his work across the globe: Jerusalem, Bangladesh, and Uganda are just three of the places I remember. A brief per­sonal statement at the beginning of the colloquium’s bulletin nar­rates the development of the “triadic” thinking (Christian­Muslim-Jew) from his earlier focus on Christian-Jewish exchange. It charts a course through Rome, Cairo and South Bend. Burrell, as a world-class intellectual and Holy Cross priest, troubles the old distinc­tion between experience and textual authority (see Chaucer’s Wife of Bath). So the colloquium was instructive, as a fellow Notre Dame student pointed out, not only because of what he had to say, but how he said it; how, after a long history of interac­tion with Muslims and Jews, one speaks to another faith. 
I came away with no solutions, and there are always limitations to such discussions. But if my time listening and talking to Fr. Burrell taught me anything, it is the need for unceasing hospitali­ty. I see continuities between Burrell and another priest, Louis Massignon. Also an active schol­ar, Massignon established a mis­sion to Muslim Egypt in the early 20th century that exemplified the welcoming-without-knowing essential to radical hospitality. Massignon was instrumental in the writing of Nostra Aetate, which gives shape to the Church’s interaction with other faiths. This kind of hospitality, which cannot anticipate because it does not fully know, also marks the season of Advent just begun. We celebrate the coming of a Messiah strange and, per­haps, unthinkable. But such hos­pitality can only be cultivated with long and intentional engagement. So may the research initiatives begin anew even as we recognize the history of dialogue and hospitality here at Notre Dame. 
DeVan Ard is a graduate student in theology. He can be reached at dard@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 




Scene
page 8 Thursday, December 2, 2010 

While driving to school after Thanksgiving break, my friend and I noticed a decid­edly happier car atmosphere. Was the plethora of Troy Mathew baked goods I Scene had Writer crammed into my backpack responsi­ble? Partly, yes. However, it was the constant stream of holiday cheer pumping out of the car speakers that sent us into a caroling frenzy. During this drive of four-plus hours, I heard nearly every Christmas carol, ranging from the fantastic to the immediate-scan worthy. This diverse array of songs led me to craft a list: the songs that are Christmas favorites, and the ones that will surely induce holiday displeasure. 
The Worst: 
“The Christmas Shoes,” NewSong (2001) 
This melodramatic tune tells the utterly ridiculous story of a boy who wants to buy shoes for his near-death mother. Because if there’s one thing a dying person needs, it’s a new pair of shoes (obviously). This is like a Lifetime movie set to music. 
“Grown Up Christmas List,” Amy Grant (2002) 
A favorite amongst middle-aged women, this song describes the outrageously sappy desires of Amy Grant. This list includes world peace, relief for a world in need and every other cliché 
you can think of. Headlining my very own grown up Christmas list is more FlexPoints and a worldwide radio ban on this song. 
“I Saw Mommy Kissing Santa Claus,” Jackson 5 (1970) 
As the name suggests, this incredibly annoying carol is told from a child’s point of view, as he stumbles upon his adulterous mother under the mistletoe with a shameless Santa Claus. Strange narra­tion from a young Michael Jackson adds to the song’s unsettling nature. 
The Best: 
“All I Want for Christmas Is You,” Mariah Carey (1994) 
Bells, lively background singers and a wailing Mariah Carey — everything about this holiday gem is perfect. 
“Winter Wonderland,” Dean Martin 
Classic and simple, this song deserves a place on any holiday playlist. Unfortunate covers by Selena Gomez and Jason Mraz only highlight this version’s jazzy brilliance. 
“Peace on Earth/Little Drummer Boy,” David Bowie and Bing Crosby (1982) 
Bowie and Crosby’s harmo­nious classic provides a dose of Christmas sentiment with­out overdoing it (take note, Amy Grant). 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Troy Mathew at tmathew2@nd.edu 
The Observer 


Scene
Thursday, December 2, 2010 page 9 




Thursday, December 2, 2010 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS page 10 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

NCAA rules Newton eligible for championship game 
Associated Press 
AUBURN, Ala. — Heisman Trophy favorite Cam Newton can focus on playing for the SEC championship instead of worry­ing about pay-for-play. 
The NCAA ruled Wednesday that Auburn’s quarterback won’t be punished for the payment scheme concocted by his father, Cecil. 
Instead, the younger Newton will lead the second-ranked Tigers into the Southeastern Conference championship game Saturday against South Carolina 
— with a shot at the national title on the line. 
The NCAA cleared Newton to compete without conditions, say­ing it was Cecil Newton and “an owner of a scouting service” — former Mississippi State player Kenny Rogers — who violated amateurism rules. 
The NCAA became involved during the summer in investigat­ing the pay-for-play scheme that was discussed during Newton’s recruitment. Two Mississippi State boosters accused Cecil Newton and Rogers of trying to get up to $180,000 for Cam Newton to play for the Bulldogs while the quarterback was being recruited out of junior college last year. 
“Based on the information available to the reinstatement staff at this time, we do not have sufficient evidence that Cam Newton or anyone from Auburn was aware of this activity, which led to his reinstatement,” Kevin Lennon, NCAA vice president for academic and membership affairs, said in a news release. 
The question of how much Auburn and Cam Newton knew about the scam has dogged the 12-0 Tigers since news of the recruiting scandal became public last month. 
The NCAA and Auburn moved swiftly this week to bring at least some resolution. 
The sports governing body con­cluded Monday that a violation had been committed by Cecil Newton and Rogers. A day later — following NCAA bylaws — Auburn declared Newton ineligi­ble and then requested his eligi­bility be reinstated. 
But Lennon seems to have left the door open for future disci­pline. The NCAA would not say Wednesday that the case is closed, referring to its statement that notes reinstatement likely occurs “prior to the close of an investigation.” 
Still, it was good news for Auburn. 
The ruling at least temporarily allays weeks-long fears that the Tigers would lose the player who has helped propel them from a middling SEC team last year to a never-say-die powerhouse with a shot at the title. 
It also temporarily eases con­cerns that Auburn’s 12 wins — and any titles — would wind up being vacated if the NCAA had found that Newton had been inel­igible because of violations com­mitted before signing with the Tigers on New Year’s Eve 2009. 
“We are pleased that the NCAA has agreed with out position that Cam Newton has been and con­tinues to be eligible to play foot­ball at Auburn University,” Jay Jacobs, Auburn’s athletic director, said in the NCAA release. 
The NCAA said Wednesday that Auburn and NCAA enforcement staff agreed that Newton’s father and an owner of a scouting serv­ice worked together on the scheme. The NCAA did not name Rogers. 
Auburn has agreed to limit Cecil Newton’s access to its ath­letic program and Mississippi State has dissociated itself from Rogers, who worked for a sports agent. 
“The conduct of Cam Newton’s father and the involved individual is unacceptable and has no place in the SEC or in intercollegiate athletics,” said Mike Slive, Southeastern Conference com­missioner. “The actions taken by Auburn University and Mississippi State University make it clear this behavior will not be tolerated in the SEC.” 
It wasn’t immediately clear what access Cecil Newton would have at Auburn, and school offi­cials said they would have no immediate further comment. 
The Newtons’ attorney, George Lawson, told WSB-TV of Atlanta on Nov. 18 that he is “1 million percent” certain that Cam Newton did not take any money. Lawson says if Cecil Newton dis­cussed money, his son “knew nothing” about it. 
“No money has been offered to Cam Newton. Cam Newton hasn’t asked for any money,” Lawson said in the report. “Cam Newton, Cecil Newton and Jackie Newton have participated in the ongoing NCAA investigation. They have been truthful and candid with the NCAA.” Jackie Newton is the quarterback’s mother. 


Rogers’ attorney, Doug Zeit, told The Associated Press that he had received a letter from Mississippi State on Wednesday morning stating that Rogers has been dissociated from the school. 
NFL 





Running back Hillis leads resurgent Browns 
city’s newest star. “It brings me tree and shoot ‘em or cut ‘em,” them, too.” or down on the shores of Lake 
Associated Press 

back to my college days at Hillis explains matter-of-factly. Hillis will enter Sunday’s Erie watching the beloved 
CLEVELAND — His hog-nosed Arkansas. It’s ugly, but I like it.” “Pretty simple.” game in Miami with 905 rushing Browns. Of course, times have facemask is unlike any in the Cleveland has fallen for Hillis Bringing down Hillis, on the yards and 414 receiving yards changed, but there remains a NFL, just one of the many things the same way he drops line-other hand, is anything but on a team-high 46 catches. strong identity to athletes who separating Peyton Hillis from backers. easy. The Browns thought Hillis give it their all without com-the pack of running backs. At 6-foot-1, 240 pounds, he’s a Knees churning, cleats kicking could help them. They had no plaint. It’s a lunch-pail town. 
With a straight-ahead, stop-hulking hunk, who on the brink up dirt and grass, he’s a terror idea he would carry them. And that’s something Hillis me-if-you-dare smashmouth of surpassing 1,000 yards, has to tackle. On his way to rushing “I thought he would be pretty sensed as soon as he arrived. style, Hillis has emerged as an quickly made the Browns’ for 131 yards in Sunday’s win good and a great addition, but He felt the pride, the passion unstoppable force in his first female fanbase forget about over Carolina, Hillis powered he’s been outstanding,” coach and the connection between season with the Cleveland quarterback Brady Quinn’s over an unfortunate Panthers Eric Mangini said. “He just himself and the fan base. Browns, who acquired him in a model looks. Quinn, by the way, safety at the 2 before going in shows up, works like crazy. He’s “I feel like I can relate to fans trade never envisioning he is the one Cleveland traded to for this third touchdown, and a great guy, loves being here on a personal level,” said Hillis, would emerge as their best Denver in March for Hillis. 11th this season, joining Hall of and plays his heart out every whose No. 40 jersey is popping offensive threat. Hillis is also a guy’s guy. Famers Jim Brown and Leroy week. He runs people over, up all over Northeast Ohio. 
Soft-spoken off the field, Hillis Dressed in rattlesnake-skinned Kelly as the only Cleveland catches everything we throw to “They’re hard-working people, is downright demonic when he’s cowboy boots, jeans, a camou-backs to score that many. him, blocks well. they love football and they don’t gets the ball. flage jacket and a tattered base-But Hillis isn’t only three “Yeah, he’s made for ask for much. They just want to 
“Dude’s a beast,” said Browns ball cap, Hillis is the antithesis yards and a cloud of debris and Cleveland.” see their team play. This city’s linebacker David Bowens. of many pro athletes right down dust. He’s remarkably agile and And Cleveland seems made hungry for a winning team.” 
Thus, the facemask. to his favorite hobby — hunting has perfected a hurdle to elude for Hillis. On Sunday, there were ban­
“It looks like it has tusks,” 400-pound, wild boars in the defensive backs who try to cut The buckle of the Rust Belt, ners hanging over the railings of Hillis says in a distinct, woods back home. out his legs. it’s where generations of fami-Browns Stadium honoring the Southern twang in describing “You get a team of boys “Not only does he bulldoze lies spent their work weeks in new hero. “Peyton’s Place” read the unique cage that protects together, a bunch of dogs, you people,” Browns center Alex factories and steel mills and one. “House of Hillis” was the face of this football-crazed lay ‘em (the boars) up against a Mack said, “he can jump over their Sundays in front of the TV another. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 

FOR RENT 
6 Bedroom 
2 Bath house available for 2011-12 school year. 
Close to campus -‘ student rental area. 
Call for details 
574-329-3849 —————————————— 


PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, 
visit Notre Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu. ——————————————— UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Don't go it alone. 
Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. 
If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysup­port@nd.edu. ——————————————— Michael: “It was on company prop­erty with company property. So double jeopardy, we’re fine.” Ryan: “I don’t think you understand how double jeopardy works.” Michael: “Oh, I’m sorry. What is ‘we’re fine?’” ——————————————— 

Dan: “I could not answer you that question.” ——————————————— 
Ace Ventura: “Well, I'm not really ready for a relationship, Lois, but thank you for asking. Hey, maybe I'll give you a call sometime. Your number's still 911? All righty then.” ——————————————— Airplane: “There's no reason to become alarmed, and we hope you'll enjoy the rest of your flight. By the way, is there anyone on board who knows how to fly a plane?” ——————————————— 
Harry: “Yeah I called her up, she gave me a bunch of crap about me not listening to her, or something, I don’t know, I wasn’t really paying attention.” ——————————————— Woody Allen: “I was thrown out of college for cheating on the meta­physics exam: I looked into the soul of another boy.” ——————————————— Spaceballs: "Name's Barf. I'm a Mog, half man half dog. I'm my own best friend." ——————————————— 
Dick Pepperfield: "How did you learn to play basketball?" Jackie Moon: "I saw it on TV a cou­ple times, I thought I could do that." ——————————————— 
“They put their pants on same way we do.” ——————————————— 
Tomorrow Ka Hin becomes a man. ——————————————— 

Thursday, December 2, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
NBA 



Horford, Hawks soar past Grizzlies 

Associated Press 
ATLANTA — Al Horford scored 20 points and the Atlanta Hawks beat the Memphis Grizzlies 112-109 on Wednesday night after learning star Joe Johnson will have elbow surgery and miss four to six weeks. 
The Hawks had six players score in double figures, includ­ing a season-high 16 points off the bench by Josh Powell, to overcome the loss of Johnson, the team’s four-time All-Star and top scorer. The Hawks have won four straight. 
Mike Bibby, who had 15 points, hit three 3-pointers in the last 5 minutes after Memphis by one. Bibby’s last 3, with 17 seconds remaining, came after Horford and Josh Smith grabbed offensive rebounds to extend a long pos­session. 
Rudy Gay led Memphis with 23 points, including a 3-point­er and another basket in the final 10 seconds. 
The Hawks announced at the start of the game Johnson will have arthroscopic surgery to remove a “loose body” from his right elbow. 
An improbable layup by Mike Conley, with the ball dropping from the top of the backboard with 4:38 remaining, pulled the Grizzlies within 95-94. Bibby answered with a 3­pointer for Atlanta before drawing a charge on Conley seconds later. 
Conley had 22 points. Zach Randolph, with 19 points and 19 rebounds, and Pau Gasol, with 16 points and 10 rebounds, had double-doubles for the Grizzlies. 
Jamal Crawford had 16 points and eight assists for Atlanta. Marvin Williams had 15 and Smith had 13. 
Johnson said the elbow has caused discomfort “off and on” this season. 
“It just got unbearable yes­terday,” Johnson told The Associated Press. 
Maurice Evans, who started for Johnson, had nine points. 
The Hawks were looking for someone to fill the scoring void left by Johnson’s absence. The first-half surprise was Powell, who had 14 points while mak­ing 7-of-8 shots from the field. Powell’s previous season high for a full game was 10 points. 
The Grizzlies led 44-43 before Powell began a hot streak in which he scored 10 points in the final 4:41 of the second period to give Atlanta a 63-57 halftime lead. 
The Hawks stretched the lead to 86-76 at the end of the third quarter. The Grizzlies opened the final period with eight straight points to cut Atlanta’s lead to two points. 
Smith was charged with four turnovers in the third period as Tony Allen had a string of three straight steals. After Allen’s second steal of Smith’s pass, Smith hustled and blocked Allen’s layup. Allen responded with his third steal from Smith for a basket. 
MLB 


MLB grants 105ADHD exemptions for drugs 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Major League Baseball granted 105 exemp­tions for otherwise-banned stimulants in the last year because of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, virtually unchanged from the previous year’s total. 
MLB and the players’ union released the report Wednesday, covering a period that ended with the World Series. 
The ADHD figure has stayed about the same for four years. There were 108 therapeutic use exemptions in 2009, up from 106 TUEs in 2008 and 103 in 2007. Baseball management says the level of ADHD among young males is higher than for the general population. 
“My reaction is the same as last year and the year before that,” said Dr. Gary Wadler, chairman of the committee that determines the banned sub­stances list for the World Anti-Doping Agency. “It seems to me almost incomprehensible that ADHD is so pervasive in base­ball to a degree that it requires medicine.” 
A frequent critic of baseball’s drug-testing program, Wadler said “these numbers really cry out for transparency in the TUE process in baseball — a good look-see at the process, not just the numbers.” 
Rob Manfred, baseball’s exec­utive vice president for labor relations, said MLB was encour­aged “by the low number of positive” tests. “We’re always cautious that we’re not missing anything.” 
Manfred emphasized the stan­dards were determined by Smith, not MLB. 
There were just two positive tests for steroids in the second full year of the sport’s tough­ened drug program, according to Dr. Bryan Smith, MLB’s inde­pendent drug-testing adminis­trator. Cincinnati pitcher Edinson Volquez and Florida catcher Ronny Paulino were suspended for 50 games each. 
Without saying who tested positive for what, Smith identi­fied the substances as Clomiphene and Oxandrolone. 
Among 3,747 tests for major leaguers, up slightly from last year’s 3,722, there were 15 pos­itives for stimulants, including 13 for Adderall and one each for Clobenzorex and Phentermine. They were pre­sumably initial positive tests, which don’t result in discipline. 


page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, December 2, 2010 
NHL 



Shootout goal lifts Predators over Blue Jackets 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio — Longtime Columbus nemesis Steve Sullivan scored the only goal in the shootout to lead the Nashville Predators past the Columbus Blue Jackets, 4-3 on Wednesday night. 
Sullivan, who has 43 points in 44 career games against Columbus, notched the goal while going second in the shootout. Pekka Rinne, who had 28 saves in regulation, made stops on Jake Voracek, Rick Nash and Antoine Vermette — who had two goals — in the shootout. 
Colin Wilson, Sergei Kostitsyn and Kevin Klein scored goals and Martin Erat had two assists for the Predators. 
Kris Russell supplied a go-ahead goal for Columbus in the third period. 
The Predators led 2-1 heading into the third, fell behind 3-2, and then tied it on Klein’s goal with 8:22 left. 
It was more of the same for Nashville, which always seems to find a way to beat Columbus 
— and usually with Sullivan and/or Erat playing a major role. The Predators are 41-13­4-1 against the Blue Jackets, going 24-4-2 in the series since 2006-07. 
Erat has 40 points in his last 40 games against the Blue Jackets. 
Columbus, down 2-1 heading into the third period, scored the next two goals. Russell found the net on a hard wrister from the high slot 2 minutes into the period. 
After an Erat blast caught the corner junction and just missed going in for the Predators, the Blue Jackets took a 3-2 lead when Nash made a great indi­vidual effort and Vermette col­lected his second garbage goal. Nash went strong to the net, muscling his way between two defenders to get off a point­blank shot on Rinne. The goalie got a piece of it, but Vermette was there to punch in the go-ahead goal. 
Nashville then knotted things again on what appeared to be an innocent shot. Klein collect­ed the puck near the blue line, skated laterally for an instant and then fired a hard, low shot that goalie Steve Mason lost in the traffic in front of the net. 


Thursday, December 2, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 



Hawkeye 
continued from page 16 
For the Notre Dame swim­mers, the U.S. Nationals will also be challenging to test the waters of their swimming potential. 
“We have just been continu­ing to practice like normal,” Maxwell said. “Our team has been focusing on getting bet­ter every day. We haven’t been doing anything specifi­cally for this meet; we have just been trying to improve our overall performance.” 
Because the meet is a national invitational event, the swimmers had to meet certain standards to be able to take part in the three-day event. 
“There will be several teams at this meet including club and college teams,” Maxwell said. “One of our toughest opponents will be Cal. They have a very good swimming program.” 
The meets that will take place this weekend will offer ample opportunity for both the swimmers and divers to go up against excellent com­petition and to get a lot of events in during the three days. 
“We want to use this meet to get lots of swims in and evaluate where we are at this point in the season,” Maxwell said. “All of the events will be very interesting to watch because the level of competi­tion is higher than that at a dual meet.” 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 



McGraw 
continued from page 16 
on the night. 
Five minutes later, freshman Kayla McBride hit two free throws to make the score 65-59. 
“The gamer in us kicked in. The heart finally showed up. We wanted to win,” Diggins said. “I think in the first half we were playing light and then finally we started to pick it up like we need to get up.” 
But the six-point difference was as close as the Irish would get. 
Notre Dame and Baylor (8-1) were tied at seven points each after nearly six minutes when the Bears went on an 8-2 run to make it 15-9. Baylor continued to pull away and led 38-24 at the end of the first half. 
Diggins’ 21 points led the Irish. She also had five assists and four steals on the night and played 39 of the game’s 40 min­utes. 
“She is obviously our go-to player,” McGraw said. “She played like an All-American today and had a great game in a big game on the road. I am just proud of the way she played and really kept us in the game. She did everything thing she could to win the game for us.” 
The Irish had a significant dif­ference in fouls, 27-12, and put the Bears into the double bonus in both halves. 
Junior forward Devereaux Peters ran into foul trouble early, with two fouls after just four minutes of play. She stayed on the bench for the rest of the first half. 
Junior guard Erica Solomon fouled out with 2:47 to go in the game after a nine-rebound per­formance to lead her team. Junior guard Natalie Novosel fouled out with 36 seconds left after scoring 12 points and grabbing four steals. 
Solomon has become a major presence for Notre Dame after her performance in the WBCA Classic over Thanksgiving earned her all-tournament hon­ors. 
While Notre Dame was guard­ing Griner, Baylor redshirt sophomore forward Brooklyn Pope became the go-to player for the Bears. She finished with 20 points and 14 rebounds on the night. 
“I think definitely in the first half [Pope] took advantage of that and she drove a lot,” Diggins said. “We were playing off of her and she got a whole lot of layups in the first half. I think that was huge for them. In the second half we tried to con­tain her a little bit, but I think we dug ourselves a deep whole by not guarding her.” 
Notre Dame faces Purdue Sunday at the Purcell Pavilion in a game that will be nationally televised on ESPN2. Tip off is scheduled for 2 p.m. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 




page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, December 2, 2010 

YUE WU/The Observer Senior center Ben Ryan crashes the net against Michigan State Nov. 19 in a 6-2 Irish victory over the Spartans in the Joyce Center. 


Ryan 
continued from page 16 
experience have helped them work together to set up scoring chances. 
“We’re really just focused on seeing the ice and making plays rather than the system and where we’re supposed to be because we’re already acclimat­ed to that,” Ryan said. 
So far this year, Ryan has played primarily with freshman left wing Anders Lee, who leads the team with nine goals. The senior has also seen ice time with classmate Calle Ridderwall, who has seven goals on the year. 
“As long as somebody’s putting the puck in the net I’m sure that [Ryan]’s happy,” Jackson said. “I think he’s been really well-bal­anced in his game.” 
Part of that all-around style has manifested itself in the faceoff circle. Heading into the season, Ryan was expected to take a lot of the key draws for the Irish after the graduation of Kevin Deeth. So far this season, Ryan has won 51.5 percent of his face-offs. 
The Irish struggled in the circle earlier in the season, which Jackson credited to freshmen adjusting to Division I hockey. Ryan said he has been working with freshmen centers T.J. Tynan and David Gerths to improve their faceoff percentages. 
“You have to be able to realize where you are on the ice,” Ryan said. “Taking an offensive zone draw is totally different than the [defensive] zone. Offensive zone, you’re willing to try some things, take some chances, because the puck’s not necessarily coming right back down your throat again because you’re in the o-


Florida 
continued from page 16 
their winter break trip. 
The teams that will be there include Grand Valley State, Calvin, Hillsdale, Valparaiso University, Kalamazoo, Northern Michigan, Olivet, Alma, and Saint Mary’s. 
Benishek said the Belles got some good workouts in over the Thanksgiving break that will help them prepare for the Calvin Invitational. 
“They were in the water during break,” Benishek said. “The extra time will be good for some of them, but the rest will also serve them well. We will have some chances at this invitational for improvement before heading to Florida.” 
Saint Mary’s will partici­pate in the Calvin Invitational starting today before heading to Florida Jan. 7-14. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 
zone, but in the d-zone you can’t go in there trying to win it clean because if you lose it clean, they’re probably getting a shot on net.” 
Ryan is also one of three senior alternate captains this season, no easy task on a team that features 12 freshmen. 
“With all these freshmen that came in in the fall, I just thought back to what it was like when I was a freshman, what I was going through,” Ryan said. “We’re right there to help these guys out.” 
These next two weeks will pose an especially interesting chal­lenge for the senior leadership on the Irish roster, since they not only have to contend with a road trip to No. 6 Miami this weekend and a home series against Northern Michigan after that, but the freshmen’s first final exams are looming around the corner. 
“We just kind of encourage the guys to have fun at the rink because when you’re here it’s time to maybe goof around a lit­tle bit,” Ryan said. “It’s serious, but you get to goof around a little bit and let things go because as soon as you leave here it’s right back to the books.” 
Ryan also said he has enjoyed the murderers-row schedule Notre Dame has faced recently — with consecutive series against No. 11 Michigan, Michigan State and No. 7 North Dakota, leading up to this weekend’s showdown against the RedHawks — because it would help the Irish prepare for the gauntlet that is postseason play. 
“It’s good to have this experi­ence early in the season because it teaches you that you can’t have any off nights,” Ryan said. 


Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 



Thursday, December 2, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 


HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK


PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Thursday, December 2, 2010 page 16 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Too much to Bear 
No. 2 Baylor defends home court as No. 16 Irish fall 76-75 to Brittany Griner, Bears 
By LAURA MYERS 

Sports Writer  
In the end, Brittney Griner  
and No. 2 Baylor proved to be  
too much for Notre Dame.  
The six-foot-eight center  
played all 40 minutes and  
scored 21 points as she and the  
Bears defeated the Irish 76-65  
in Waco, Tex.  
It was the third loss to a top­ 
15 team for No. 16 Notre Dame  
(5-3) this season.  
“It is disappointing because  
we thought we played our game  
for about 15 minutes, and they  
are a great team,” Irish coach  
Muffet McGraw said in a post- 
game press conference. “They  
are a Final Four team and I  
thought they just really hung  
together when we made our  
run and showed a lot of poise.”  
After being down by as many  
as 22 points in the second half,  
Notre Dame went on a 12-0 run  
to close the gap to 56-49 with  
just under 10 minutes to go.  
Sophomore guard Skylar  
Diggins scored eight points dur­ 
ing the run and finished with 21  PAT COVENEY/The Observer  
Freshman forward Natalie Achonwa drives into the lane against Morehead St. Nov. 15 during a 91­ 
see MCGRAW/page 13  28 Irish victory in the Purcell Pavilion. The Irish fell to No. 2 Baylor 76-65 Wednesday in Waco.  

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
Irish split up for two meets 
By KATHARINE MACK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will be splitting up this weekend to participate in two extremely competitive meets that will test Notre Dame’s mettle. 
The Irish swimmers will head to Columbus, Ohio, to take part in the U.S. Nationals swim meet, while the Notre Dame divers will head to Iowa City, Iowa, for the Hawkeye Invitational. 
The Hawkeye Invitational is a three-day event that will span from Friday through Sunday. The U.S. Nationals are also a three-day event, stretching from Thursday through Saturday. 
The Hawkeye Invitational will be comprised of a com­petitive field of diving teams. Iowa, Denver, Illinois, Northern Iowa, South Dakota State, Green Bay, Milwaukee, Notre Dame and Ohio State. 
see HAWKEYE/page 13 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles to swim in fall finale against Calvin 
Squad coming off invitational in Chicago 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The Belles are coming off a fifth -place showing at the Phoenix Invitational hosted by the University of Chicago earlier this month, and will now round out the Fall semester portion of their schedule at the Calvin Invitational this weekend. 
“We are looking for strong swims out of everybody at the Calvin Invitational,” head coach Mark Benishek said. “I am looking for everyone to give 100 percent effort in the pool, even whether they get their best time or just off their best time.” 
The Phoenix Invitational featured the host No. 15 University of Chicago, which won the Invitational easily with 1252 points, with the next closest team having 464. The Belles finished with 296. 
Saint Mary’s did have some strong finishes on the week­end with sophomore Katie Griffin finishing third in the 100-yard backstroke. Griffin also finished seventh in the 100 -yard butterfly for the Invitational. 
“Overall it was a pretty good meet,” Benishek said. “We weren’t competing for a month or so, so to come out with those performances was a step in the right direction. We saw some great times, and some of the girls had beat their best times in prac­tice so we’re continuing to 
improve.”  
S o p h o m o r e  A u d r e y  
D a l r y m p l e  a l s o  h a d  a n  
i m p r e s s i v e  s w i m  f o r  t h e  
B e l l e s  a t  t h e  P h o e n i x  

Invitational, finishing seventh in the 200-yard backstroke, and eighth in the 400-yard individual medley. 
Dalrymple noted that there are only 14 girls on the team this year and said she found the small roster to be a mixed blessing. 
“We only have 14 girls on the team this year. It’s unfor­tunate because we have a lot of talent but just do not have the numbers to beat some of the teams in our conference,” she said. “The size of our team is also a blessing because we are extremely close and help motivate each other to focus on our individ­ual goals for the season.” 
Saint Mary’s will get a chance to face some of its MIAA competition this week­end at the Calvin Invitational before heading to Florida for 
see FLORIDA/page 14 
HOCKEY 

Ryan stands out as a senior 

By SAM WERNER 
Sports Writer 

Senior center Ben Ryan may not be lighting the lamp as much as he has in years past, but that doesn’t mean he hasn’t been finding his way onto the score sheet. 
Through 15 games, Ryan has only two goals, but has already racked up 14 assists, just two short of his career high. 
“You know, I think in some ways he’s changed his game in a positive way from a leadership perspective,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said of Ryan. “I don’t think he feels he has to be the guy who puts the puck in the net all the time.” 
For his part, Ryan said he has­n’t necessarily changed his style of play, but rather just adapted to the situation in which he found himself. He pointed out that during his freshman and sophomore years, when he scored 10 and 12 goals, respec­tively, he played most of his min­utes with Erik Condra, one of the team’s top playmakers. 
“I think it’s kind of natural,” Ryan said of his transition to set­up man. “I don’t think it’s neces­sarily me changing my game up. It’s more the players I’m playing with now.” 
Ryan’s 14 assists are second on the team only to senior line-mate Ryan Guentzel’s 15. Ryan said his and Guentzel’s years of 
see RYAN/page 14 






