the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


‘A Catholic University for the 21st century’ 
Jenkins reflects on progress made during his first term as president and goals left to achieve during his tenure 
By JENN METZ 
Senior Staff Writer 
University President Fr. John Jenkins lives by two important words: faith and reason. Those principles, he said, informed his at-times controversial decisions, and will continue to guide him into his second term. 
Reflecting on his first term as University President, Jenkins said it’s difficult to be under the media micro­scope while working to clearly communicate the goals of a Catholic universi­ty. 
“We live in a time where there are a lot of voices out there and it’s hard in the midst of that to speak over all the noise,” Jenkins said in an interview with The Observer. “I think that one of my roles is to articulate what we are.” 
Most recently, last spring’s controversy over the invita­tion to President Barack Obama to receive an hon ­
orary degree at Commencement and the football coaching change this fall have thrust the University, and Jenkins, into the spotlight. 
“I think you try always to do the thing that ’s best according to your deepest principles, whether eyes are on you or not, you still do that,” he said. “There’s a lot of noise and a lot of atten­tion, but in the end it’s real­ly simple: you just try to do what’s best, what accords with the mission of Notre Dame.” 
Adhering to that mission is 
one of the challenges for Jenkins as University President, a position he did not foresee himself holding. 
‘A series of steps in life’ 
“I didn’t see myself doing this, and it wasn’t a driving ambition of mine,” Jenkins said. “It was a series of 
see WEEKEND/page 4 



Father Ted’s Fun Run to benefit local students 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
Hoping to create opportuni­ties for low-income and under-served prospective students, Notre Dame Upward Bound hopes that many will run this Sunday in order to help local students attend college. 
The third annual Father Ted’s Fun Run/Walk will take place Sunday at the Jordan Hall of Science at 3:30 p.m. Participants can either take part in a one-mile walk or a five-or 10-kilometer run. 
All proceeds from the event will go to Notre Dame Upward Bound, a program from the University’s Department of Education whose mission is to help local students from low-income backgrounds be the first in their family to attend college. 
“Upward Bound provides support and resources to stu­dents who have the potential to go to college but are often viewed as the least likely to succeed,” Alyssia Coates, direc­tor of Notre Dame Upward Bound, said. “We have a 100 percent success rate at gradu­ating our students from high school and getting them into college.” 

Upward Bound is part of the Federal TRIO Programs that were established under President Lyndon Johnson’s Great Society in the 60s. Notre Dame President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh was a member of the committee that created TRIO and Upward Bound. 
“Fr. Ted was instrumental in 
creating the Upward Bound 
program and bringing it to 
campus. That’s why the Fun 
Run is named after him,” 
Coates said. “He has always 
had a great interest in the pro­
gram and in making sure these 
students from low-income fam­
ilies have the opportunity to 
obtain higher education.” 
“We wanted to honor Fr. 
Ted’s dedication to the pro-
see FUN RUN/page 3 




Blue-Gold weekend to bring crowds 
By CARLY LANDON 
News Writer 
Tomorrow the Blue-Gold Game returns for the 81st time, bringing with it a fresh surge of Irish pride. 
As in years past, thousands will flock to campus to get a glimpse at how the team will operate this fall. 
Unlike many other years, however, a new fascination has latched itself to the weekend. 
“Everybody is just so excited to see [Irish coach Brian] Kelly, and this is going to be the pub­lic’s first glimpse to see him in action and what he’s done to the team,” Game Day Operations Director Mike Seamon said. ”If the weather cooperates, we are expecting to see huge crowds. Even with crowds, we are expecting 20,000. It could be 20,000 to 50,000. We are pre­pared for both.” 
Seamon said the game would be one of the season’s most pop­ular events. 
“I think next to Commencement, which is just focused on graduating seniors, this is clearly the biggest week­end in the spring here at Notre Dame,” he said. 
Although this weekend’s game is eight decades running, the activities and events featured will be anything but monoto­
see WEEKEND/page 4 



Newbishop reflects on priesthood 
By TONY RIVERA 
News Writer 
Before an audience of priests, seminarians and stu­dents, Bishop Kevin Rhoades warned “there is no excuse today for the confusion and errors about priestly identity and mission that were preva­lent a few decades ago.” 
Calling for Catholic priests to fulfill the call of becoming “living images and living instruments of Christ,” Rhoades delivered his address at the Moreau Seminary auditorium on Thursday night in honor of the Church’s “Year for Priests.” 
“We should be filled with a spirit of wonder when con­templating the mystery of the priesthood,” Rhoades said. 
As part of his overnight stay at the Moreau Seminary, Rhodes’ address focused on the theme of “Christ the High Priest,” telling his audience that it is not possible to talk about this area of Catholicism without return­ing to “the priesthood of 
see RHOADES/page 3 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Women’s tennis hosts Big East tourney page 24  ND softball falls to DePaul page 24  Battle of the Bands page 12  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Friday, April 23, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Happy Birthday 

Today is my birthday, and it could-n’t have fallen on a better Friday (or weekend, for that matter) of the year: I get to turn Pigtostal, the Blue-Gold Game and Muddy Sunday into additional reasons 
Kristen Durbin
to celebrate my 19th year of 
News
being. 

Production
However, as 
Editor

years have gone by, the celebra­tions surrounding birthdays have become less creative and all-inclu­sive and more impersonal and gener­
ic. Gone are the days of pondering for hours what kind of birthday party I wanted to have: no more pottery painting parties, roller skating bash­es or pool parties to look forward to. 
Now, on my first birthday as a col­lege student, my celebrations center around going to dinner with a few friends and proceeding to engage in various alcohol-related activities around campus for the rest of the weekend. Don’t get me wrong, I enjoy going out with friends, meeting new people and accumulating stories of ridiculous drunken shenanigans, but you know things have changed when a giant pack of random, sweaty, ine­briated people in a crowded dorm room raucously sing “Happy Birthday” to the person of honor like it’s their own best friend’s birthday when, in reality, chances are they have no idea whose birthday it is. If I had my wish, I would gather all my closest friends from both high school and college not only to celebrate my birthday but also to spend quality time with the people who mean the most to me. 
With each successive birthday cele­bration, we eventually begin to cringe at the thought of adding another year to our lives, another number to our ages. Birthdays become Hallmark holidays by the time a person turns 30, reducing the significance of the celebration of one’s birth to a few mildly thoughtful words and generic wishes scrawled on a store-bought greeting card. 
I object to this devaluation of cele­brating the most significant day of our lives: the day we were all intro­duced to the world for the first time. Without birthdays, none of us would even exist, let alone be able to com­memorate our first days of being. Birthdays are essentially the only day a person has an excuse to be com­pletely self-centered without getting called out on it by anyone. In addi­tion, birthdays also provide a green light for being slightly obnoxious in making sure everyone knows it’s your birthday and that this simple fact makes it the most important day in recent history. 
So after a long countdown to today’s festivities, I plan on fully embracing the meaning of my birth­day and milking its significance for all it’s worth by having a great time celebrating all weekend. And when­ever your birthday comes around, don’t forget to be at least a little self­ish, a bit obnoxious and to remember the real reason for all the boisterous celebration: you. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR FAVORITE PART OF ANTOSTA ? 








Ali Vos  Sarah Sraders  Greg Cunningham  Kevin Doyle  John Karol  Adam Doster  
sophomore Welsh Family  sophomore Welsh Family  sophomore Dillon  junior Dillon  sophomore Dillon  junior Dillon  
“The cotton candy.”  “The cherry snow cones.”  “Pig Tostal!”  “The fun activities.”  “I get the whole library to myself.”  “The Krispie Kreme donuts.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

EILEEN VEIHMEYER/The Observer Students receive free cotton candy and snow cones as part of AnTostal festivities in front of South Dining Hall on Thursday. 
OFFBEAT 

Worker punched after confronting man about odor 
BELLINGHAM, Wash. — Police said a Cost Cutter store employee was punched in the mouth after he confronted a customer about his body odor. Police spokesman Mark Young told The Bellingham Herald that police went to the store after a report of a fight and found employees holding down a man. 
The newspaper said cus­tomers apparently com­plained while the man was in the store Sunday, and the employee decided to discuss it with him when he returned the next day. 
Young said the store employee was not going to ask him to leave the store, but only approached him to share the complaints. Young said the man snapped and threw a bunch of batteries and punched the worker, caus­ing a minor injury. 
Fake plastic surgeons provide breast implants 
CARACAS — Venezuelan police have arrested a man and woman accused of impersonating plastic sur­geons and providing women with silicone breast and buttock implants from an illegal clinic in an apart­ment. 
Cosmetic surgery, espe­cially breast enlargement, is widespread in image-conscious Venezuela, which is known for beauty queens who have won many inter­national pageant titles. 
Reinaldo Henriquez was charged with aggravated fraud while sidekick Hersi Rodriguez was accused of aiding and abetting him by recruiting clients and tak­ing them to their surgery in the western city of Maracay, the Attorney General's office said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight saturday sunday 

IN BRIEF 
The Notre Dame Bike Fest 2010 will take place today from noon until 7 p.m. on South Quad in front of the Rockne Memorial. 
The College of Arts & Letters is presenting a lecture today entitled “The Legacy of Futurism in the Contemporary Small Press” at 1 p.m. in 107 Pasquerilla Center. 
The Inaugural Chair Event and Book Launch for John Nagle will take place today from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m.in the Patrick McCartan Courtroom at the Eck Hall of Law. A recep­tion in the Eck Hall atrium will follow the event. 
“The Shirt” Unveiling Ceremony will take place tonight at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. Festivities begin at 4 p.m. and the ceremo­ny will start at 5:45 p.m. after a speech by head football coach Brian Kelly. Shirts will be for sale immediately following the ceremony. 
The Blue-Gold Game will take place Saturday at 1:35 p.m. in Notre Dame Stadium. For tick­ets call the ND Ticket Office at 574-631-7356. 
William Shakespeare’s “As You Like It” will be performed Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in the Philbin Studio Theatre at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $10 for stu­dents, $15 for faculty and $18 for general admission. Tickets can be purchased by calling 574-631-2800. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
monday tueday 


Atlanta 85 / 60 Boston 64 / 41 Chicago 63 / 52 Denver 48 / 43 Houston 81 / 69 Los Angeles 67 / 52 Minneapolis 68 / 50 New York 68 / 46 Philadelphia 70 / 45 Phoenix 73 / 57 Seattle 63 / 45 St. Louis 78 / 63 Tampa 86 / 68 Washington 73 / 53 
Friday, April 23, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Student crashes College golf cart 
Observer Staff Report 
At approximately 3 p.m. Wednesday, a student employee at Saint Mary’s College lost con­trol of a College-owned golf cart and crashed into Angela Athletic Facility, David Gariepy, director of security at the College said. 
No one was injured in the accident. 
According to Gariepy, the stu­dent was attempting to park the golf cart when her foot slipped off the brake and onto the accel­erator, causing her to smash into the glass door on the north side of the building. 
Gariepy said the College is working to attain an estimate of the damages. No estimate is available at this time. Gariepy said the College is planning to make repairs, though no time­line has been set. 
Rhoades 
continued from page 1 
Christ.” 
“Only Christ is the true priest, the others being only his ministers,” Rhoades said, quoting St. Thomas Aquinas. 
Rhoades, who was ordained as a priest in 1983, was appointed by Pope Benedict XVI to the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend last November. 
For Bishop Rhodes, life in the priesthood has been one of reflection. 
“To understand and appre­ciate the nature and the meaning of the Catholic priesthood, one needs to reflect deeply on the priestly consecration and mission of Jesus Christ,” Rhoades said. 
This reflecting, he contin­ued, finds roots in the New Testament’s Letter to the Hebrews. Though describing it as one of the most chal­lenging books of the New Testament, Bishop Rhoades pointed out that Hebrews is significant for its “priestly Christology, a presentation for the identity and mission of Christ in priestly terms.” 
In return, the Bishop said, Jesus gives comfort to the priest in his Priestly Prayer found in the 17th chapter in the Gospel of John. 
“He is praying for us,” he said of this passage. “He is praying for the Church.” 
He likewise stressed the importance for the faithful to pray for protection in the Church’s mission as well, especially in light of the resurgence of new sex abuse scandals. 
“I wonder if we would be in the mess we’re in after the priest and clergy abuse scandals if we were praying for protection from the evil one,” Rhoades said. 
In the present day, the Bishop also said it was “absolutely essential” when promoting vocations to pres­ent the beauty of the priest­hood. 
This responsibility, he said, falls on parishes, schools, religious education programs, campus ministry and other youth ministry groups. 
“Such authentic catechesis can and does inspire young men to consider a possible vocation to share in the priestly consecration of Jesus,” Rhoades said. 
Contact Tony Rivera at rrivera3@nd.edu 


Fun Run 
continued from page 1 
gram by naming this event after him,” Upward Bound administrative assistant Deb Wisler said. 
The program enrolls students during their freshman year of high school and continues to support them throughout their high school years by “keeping them on track, providing tutor­ing from Notre Dame students, academic advising and having enrichment programming,” Wisler said. 
The program is completely free of cost for students and then helps to provide them scholarships once they are enrolled in college. 
The students, however, struggle to afford books and other items that are not cov­ered by tuition one they’re enrolled in college. The Fun Run was developed three years ago to specifically address this issue. Fifteen students will benefit from its proceeds this year. 
“This fundraiser is geared solely to our graduating high school seniors,” Wisler said. “The students are very involved in the event. They go to friends and family to get sponsorships and they will walk or run at the event.” 
The students that are mem­bers of the program value the opportunity that has been pre­sented to them courtesy of Upward Bound. 
“I work with these kids and they are incredibly bright and so motivated — a lot more than a lot of the kids that I went to high school with,” senior Erin Robey, a Fun Run organizer, said. “I think that it’s really good that they’re really trying to get involved in their futures and it’s a pleasure to help them out.” 
The Fun Run has grown and developed since it began two years ago and organizers are hoping for a larger turnout this year as more and more com­munity members have become aware of the event. 
“Last year we had 200 par­ticipants and raised almost $9000 for our students,” Wisler said. “We’re hoping to increase by 100 participants this year.” 
The event aims to facilitate the relationship between Notre Dame and the South Bend community, especially since “there is such a disparity between the Notre Dame com­munity and the community that is two minutes away,” Robey said. 
Wisler said Upward Bound and the Fun Run help to “serve as a bridge” between Notre Dame and South Bend and Coates believes both communi­ties are trying to achieve the same goal. 
“We’re all looking to find out what resources are available so we can work together and be a collaborative community,” Coates said. “We need to unite and make sure the citizens in our community are developing into the citizens that we all want them to be.” 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 




page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 23, 2010 
Jenkins 
continued from page 1 
said. “It was a series of steps in life that led me here and led me to this.” 
Graduating from Notre Dame with a degree in phi­losophy in 1976, Jenkins was drawn to the priesthood and was ordained in 1983. 
“I think with that there’s always an element of mys­tery. I’ve always felt that desire for something of depth, something meaning­ful in my life.” 
That search for something more led Jenkins to “think deeply about faith and about God” and about what he was going to do with his life. 
“That even­tually led me to think about serving peo ­ple as a 

“The University should 
priest, some-ing those goals 
one who be a place that’s open is part of the strives to to a diversity of views, legacy he 
bring Christ leaves behind 
even views that
to people,” he on the said. challenge us.” University, as 
A f t e r well as making attending Notre Dame an 
Fr. John Jenkins 
graduate important
University President 
school at venue for Oxford and debate on serving on the “important faculty at issues,” even if Notre Dame, they’re contro-Jenkins versial. moved to the Provost ’s “I hope Notre Dame can be Office. In 2004, he was a place where we can have elected president to succeed those kinds of conversations University President and can engage people who Emeritus Fr. Edward are the leaders of our “Monk” Malloy. nation, the influential peo-
Jenkins said his studies in ple of the world,” Jenkins philosophy have helped him said. “The University partic­tury.” 
p e r f o r m  t h e  ularly should  
duties of the  b e  a  p l a c e  
Office of the  t h a t ’s  o p e n  
P r e s i d e n t .  to a diversity  
H e t e l l s h i s students phi­ “It is one of the joys  o f e v e n  v i e w s , v i e w s  
l o s o p h y i s “ j u s t t h i n k -i n g h a r d , t h i n k i n g c l e a r l y ”  of my job to talk to students and I try to make that a part of what I do.”  t h a t c h a l -lenge us.” J e n k i n s ’ d e c i s i o n s i n t h e p a s t ,  
about impor­ i n c l u d i n g  
tant issues. “ I a l w a y s f o u n d t h e m  Fr. John Jenkins University President  i n v i t i n g P r e s i d e n t B a r a c k  

Jenkins said there are three important aspects to Notre Dame’s goal: to pro­vide unparalleled under ­graduate education, to be a preeminent research univer­sity and to let the Catholic mission “inform everything we do.” 
“If we do all three, Notre Dame can make contribu ­tions to society and the nation and the Church that is really unique,” he said. “And my passion in this job is to make that contribution and to help Notre Dame make that contribution.” 
These goals will carry into Jenkins ’ second term as University president, he said. “You always have to keep striving — if you’re not 
striving, 
you ’re falling 
backwards.” 
He said he 
hopes progress 
toward achiev­
to my mind the sort of profound issues of life, 
of human life … and I genuinely enjoyed grappling with those issues … it just res­onated with who I was,” he said, “and that’s what we do every day.” 
Every day challenges 
“My challenge every day is time, ” Jenkins said. “You have all these pressures and people demand your time, so it’s always a struggle.” 
Serving as president of a university is a balancing act, he said. Daily meetings, traveling and full schedules leave little time for anything else. 
Though Jenkins no longer interacts with students in the classroom as professor, an aspect of his life he says he misses, “nothing is more important than keeping in touch with the students.” 
“It is one of the joys of my job to talk to students and I try to make that a part of what I do,” he said. 
Jenkins’ biggest challenge, however, is a positive one: “to live up to a mission that is distinctive in higher edu­cation and to realize the tremendous potential of Notre Dame in the 21st cen-Obama to receive an honorary degree from the 
University, have drawn criti­cism from Church represen­tatives, including John D’Arcy, former bishop of the Fort Wayne -South Bend Diocese. 
While he believes “the bishop has a role in the dio­cese of teaching the faith” and that it’s important that he, as University president, personally remains close to the bishop, Jenkins said some decisions belong to the University. 
“It ’s appropriate the University should make those decisions, as best we can on the principles that guide the institution, ” he said. “I’m committed to working with the bishop to help Notre Dame, to help 
N o t r e  D a m e  s e r v e  t h e  
Churc h and  serve  the dio - 
cese.”  

‘A Catholic University for the 21st century’ 
Jenkins said establishing these relationships — with the Church and with nation­al leaders — and working toward achieving the University’s central goals, puts Notre Dame in a unique position. 
“The thing about Notre Dame, we’re sort of invent­ing a Catholic university for the 21st century,” he said. “There have been great Catholic universities, but history has changed, society has changed, universities have changed.” 
Undertaking the challenge to create the new Catholic university depends on Jenkins’ guiding principles, drawn from his studies in philosophy and his calling to the priesthood. 
“I think a Catholic univer­sity is the institutional expression of a confidence in the harmony of faith and reason — that ’s why we exist. If we didn ’t believe that, let ’s just shut the doors and go home.” 
The two are not in conflict with each other, but rather inform every aspect of Notre Dame, he said. 
“There ’s nothing more central to us. That means, the inquiring mind in the search for truth and all the challenges that involves along the way is not in con­flict with a faith in God,” Jenkins said. “It is precisely that confidence in that har­mony and the strength of the Catholic faith — that’s the reason why Notre Dame exists.” 
The coming weeks will bring the most rewarding part of Jenkins’ presidency: conferring degrees on grad­uating students. 
“Every graduation is my proudest moment, just to send people off to see how they ’ve grown, ” he said. “That ’s why we ’re here. They’re going to do great things in the world after being at Notre Dame, and that’s a great accomplish­ment.” 

Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 
Weekend 
continued from page 1 
nous. 
“Given the tremendous inter­ests in Coach Kelly, I think its safe to say there will be unprecedented activities and events this weekend,” Seamon said. “It’s going to be bigger than anything we’ve done in the past.” 
Notre Dame students are especially eager to gauge from the scrimmage how the team has already shifted under their new coach’s direction. 
“Last year’s game was really exciting. Just to be in the stadi­um in the spring really pumped me up for the fall sea­son,” sophomore Alexandra Unger said. “I think this Blue and Gold game will be even better because the football team is feeling really enthusi­astic and Brian Kelly is causing a lot of excitement.” 
The University will kick off the weekend Friday from 10 a.m.-1 p.m. with a fan festival, open to the public, on the Irish Green, featuring games, food and activities. 
That afternoon the University will reveal the new The Shirt. 
“It’s going to start off with The Shirt unveiling at four at the bookstore. The new cheer­leaders and the leprechaun and a number of other student groups will be there,” Seamon said. “Coach Kelly himself will unveil The Shirt itself at 5:45.” 
Besides football, other Irish sports teams are also hosting home games this weekend which the University has incor­porated into the events of the weekend. 
“We are also dedicating the new Alumni Soccer Stadium,” Seamon said. “The men’s and women’s soccer teams are playing there Friday night.” 
The baseball, softball teams will play on campus, and the women’s Big East tennis cham­pionships will be on campus as well, Seamon said. 
Blue-Gold weekend ends Sunday with the South Bend Symphony playing at the Purcell Pavilion. 
The event will feature over 700 musicians, Seamon said. 
Contact Carly Landon at clandon@nd.edu 



World & Nation 
Friday, April 23, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Alleged top drug dealer caught 
MEXICO CITY — Troops battled a suspected drug gang in a wealthy neighborhood on the outskirts of Mexico City and captured an alleged major trafficker with a $2 million U.S. bounty on his head, officials announced on Thursday. 
Jose Gerardo Alvarez Vazquez — known as “El Indio” or “El Chayan” — is suspected of being responsible for a spike in violence in states near the capital as part of a struggle for control of the Beltran Leyva drug cartel, the military and the federal Attorney General’s Office said. 
Authorities said Alvarez Vazquez, 45, was arrested along with 14 other suspected drug traffickers during a Wednesday night shootout in Huixquilucan, just west of the capital. 
Clegg wows in Britain’s debates 
LONDON — Nick Clegg has proven he wasn’t a one-hit wonder in Britain’s second election debate, holding his own against Labour’s Prime Minister Gordon Brown and the Conservatives’ David Cameron over thorny issues such as Afghanistan, the Catholic sex abuse scandal and the special relationship with the United States. 
Clegg shook up the race last week, emerging as a clear winner in Britain’s first U.S.-styled election debate and boosting the profile of the Liberal Democrats, the country’s third-largest party. Thursday’s debate, however, was razor-sharp. One polls gave Clegg a paperthin edge while others put Clegg neck-and-neck with Cameron. Still, Clegg managed to keep some of his political stardust — respondents in one of the polls said the 43-year-old seemed to be the most honest of the three. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
White supremacist found dead 
PEARL, Miss. — A white supremacist lawyer with a knack for publicity was found stabbed to death in a burning house on Thursday and Mississippi authorities later said a neighbor had been charged with murder. 
Rankin County Sheriff Ronnie Pennington said Richard Barrett’s body was found just after 8 a.m. after residents reported smoke coming from his house in a rural area outside a Jackson, Miss., suburb. 
Pennington told The Associated Press that Vincent McGee, 22, has been charged with murder in the case. Additional charges could be forthcoming, Pennington said, including arson. 
The sheriff said McGee had not yet hired a lawyer and the suspect’s mother had no com­ment when she went to the jail where her son was being held. 
Prison official found guilty of abuse 
ODESSA, Texas — A former Texas youth prison administrator was found guilty Thursday of sexually abusing a teenage inmate more than five years ago in a case that ignited a statewide scandal over the treatment of young offenders. 
Ray Edward Brookins was convicted of two counts each of having an improper sexual activity with a person in custody and having an improper relationship between an educator and student. 
Brookins, a former assistant superintendent of the Texas Youth Commission’s West Texas State School in Pyote, was immediately taken into custody. 
Brookins could face up to 20 years in state prison. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Two boys charged with man’s death 
WARSAW, Ind. — A 15-year-old northern Indiana boy and a 12-year-old friend have been charged in the shooting death of the older boy’s stepfather. 
The two boys were charged as juveniles with murder Thursday in Kosciusko (Koss-ee-OSS’­koh) County Superior Court in Warsaw. Another 12-year-old was charged with aiding or causing murder. A hearing will be held April 29 to deter­mine if the three boys will be tried as adults. 
During a fact-finding hearing, one of the younger boys said he helped the 15-year-old shoot his 49-year-old stepfather as he walked into the kitchen of their home. 
Burningoilrigsinksafterexplosion 
Loss of oil platform sets stage for big spill, slims the chances of survival for 11 missing 
Associated Press  
NEW ORLEANS — A  
deepwater oil platform that  
burned for more than a day  
after a massive explosion  
sank into the Gulf of  
Mexico on Thursday, creat­ 
ing the potential for a  
major spill as it under- 
scored the slim chances  
that the 11 workers still  
missing survived.  
The sinking of the  
Deepwater Horizon, which  
burned violently until the  
gulf itself extinguished the  
fire, could unleash more  
than 300,000 of gallons of  
crude a day into the water.  
The environmental hazards  
would be greatest if the  
spill were to reach the  
Louisiana coast, some 50  
miles away.  
Crews searched by air  
and water for the missing  
workers, hoping they had  
managed to reach a  
lifeboat, but one relative  
said family members have  
been told it’s unlikely any  
of the missing survived  
Tuesday night’s blast. The  
Coast Guard found two  
lifeboats but no one was  
inside. More than 100  
workers escaped the explo­ 
sion and fire; four were AP  
critically injured. David Rainey, BP’s vice president for Gulf of Mexico production, speaks Thursday in New  
Carolyn Kemp of Orleans about the Deepwater Horizon mobile offshore drilling unit explosion and investigation.  
Monterey, La., said her  
grandson, Roy Wyatt Kemp,  other workers scurrying to  She said she didn’t know  Restoration Network.  
27, was among the missing.  a lifeboat that took them to  whether the crude oil was  “If it gets landward, it  
She said he would have  a nearby service boat, his  spilling into the gulf. The  could be a disaster in the  
been on the drilling plat- father said.  rig also carried 700,000  making,” Sarthou said.  
form when it exploded.  “They waited for as many  gallons of diesel fuel, but  Doug Helton, incident  
“They’re assuming all  people as they could,” Jed  that would likely evaporate  operations coordinator for  
those men who were on the  Kersey said. He added that  if the fire didn’t consume it.  the National Oceanographic  
platform are dead,” Kemp  his son wasn’t ready to talk  Coast Guard Rear Adm.  and Atmospheric  
said. “That’s the last we’ve  publicly about his experi- Mary Landry said crews  Administration’s office of  
heard.”  ence.  saw a 1-mile-by-5-mile  response and restoration,  
Jed Kersey, of Leesville,  As the rig burned, supply  rainbow sheen with a dark  said the spill is not expect- 
La., said his 33-year-old  vessels shot water into it to  center of what appeared to  ed to come onshore in the  
son, John, had finished his  try to keep it afloat and  be a crude oil mix on the  next three to four days.  
shift on the rig floor and  avoid an oil spill, but there  surface of the water. She  “But if the winds were to  
was sleeping when the  were additional explosions  said there wasn’t any evi­ change, it could come  
explosion occurred. He said  Thursday. Officials had pre­ dence crude oil was coming  ashore more rapidly,” he  
his son told him that all 11  viously said the environ- out after the rig sank, but  said.  
missing workers were on  mental damage appeared  officials also aren’t sure  At the worst-case figure  
the rig floor at the time of  minimal, but new chal- what’s going on underwa­ of 336,000 gallons a day, it  
the explosion.  lenges have arisen now  ter. They have dispatched a  would take more than a  
“He said it was like a war  that the platform has sunk.  vessel to check.  month for the amount of  
zone,” said Jed Kersey, a  The well could be spilling  The oil will do much less  crude oil spilled to equal  
former offshore oil worker.  up to 336,000 gallons of  damage at sea than it  the 11 million gallons  
An alarm sounded and  crude oil a day, Coast  would if it hits the shore,  spilled from the Exxon  
the electricity went out,  Guard Petty Officer  said Cynthia Sarthou, exec- Valdez in Alaska’s Prince  
sending John Kersey and  Katherine McNamara said.  utive director of the Gulf  William Sound.  

Take-your-kid-to-work day loses steam 
Associated Press 

CHICAGO — More than a decade after it began, take-your-kid-to-work day appears to be losing steam. Now it’s keep-your-kid-in-school. 
Thursday marked the 17th year for Take Your Daughters and Sons to Work Day. But some school districts sent strongly worded letters or e­mails to parents explaining that tak­ing a child to work would put the youngster’s education at risk. 
Many teachers found their Thursday classes largely unaffected. 
“We had only six out today — that’s actually less than usual,” said Darrell Propst, principal of Taylor Road Elementary School in Reynoldsburg, Ohio, who asked parents not to pull their kids out of school. “Our atten­dance was very, very good today.” 
Though many kids still accompany a parent to work, some employers say the event increasingly conflicts with high-stakes standardized testing in schools. And this year, it was over­shadowed by Earth Day, which cele­brated its 40th anniversary on Thursday. 
In Texas — at Dell Inc. in Austin and Southern Methodist University in Dallas — most of the focus was on Earth Day, not Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Day. 
“I haven’t heard about that in a while,” SMU spokesman Kent Best said. “It was a big deal maybe a decade ago. ... So today is the day?” 
Travis Carter, a public relations executive in Dallas who has two chil­dren, ages 5 and 6, said his kids reminded him it was Earth Day and took their recyclables to school. 
“I am surprised to now hear that it’s also take-your-kids-to-work day,” he said. 
The event was launched in 1993 and has always fallen on the fourth Thursday in April. But that date has drawn complaints from school admin­istrators for well over a decade, espe­cially because many standardized tests fall on or near the same day. 
Some school officials have contacted the Take Our Daughters and Sons to Work Foundation to ask that the event be held on a school holiday or during the summer, but the organiza­tion won’t budge. 

page 6 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Friday, April 23, 2010 
Ariz.wantsproofof citizenship in 2012 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX — Arizona law­makers expressing doubt over whether President Barack Obama was born in the United States are push­ing a bill through the Legislature that would require the president to show his birth certificate to get on the state’s 2012 ballot. 
The House passed the measure Wednesday on a 31­29 vote, ignoring protests from opponents who said it’s casting Arizona in an ugly light and could give the elected secretary of state broad powers to kick a presi­dential candidate off the bal­lot. 
“We’re becoming a nation­al joke,” Rep. Chad Campbell, who opposes the measure, said Thursday. 
The measure’s sponsor, Rep. Judy Burges, said she isn’t sure Obama could prove his eligibility for the ballot in Arizona and wants to erase all doubts. 
“You have half the popula­tion who thinks everything is fine, and you have the other half of the population who has had doubts built up in their mind,” Burges said. 
So-called “birthers” have contended since the 2008 presidential campaign that Obama is ineligible to be president because, they argue, he was actually born in Kenya, his father’s home­land. The Constitution says that a person must be a “nat­ural-born citizen” to be eligi­ble for the presidency. 
Hawaii officials have repeatedly confirmed Obama’s citizenship, and his Hawaiian birth certificate has been made public, along with birth notices from two Honolulu newspapers pub­lished within days of his birth in August 1961. 
Courts have rebuffed law­suits challenging Obama’s eligibility, but the issue has­n’t gone away. Lawmakers have introduced similar bills in a handful of other states. They include Oklahoma, where a measure passed the House but failed in the Senate, and Missouri, where a bill was withdrawn before any action was taken. 
Eleven U.S. House Republicans have signed on to a federal bill, but it hasn’t received a hearing in the Democrat-controlled House. 

Arizona’s measure would require U.S. presidential candidates to submit docu­ments to the secretary of state proving they meet the constitutional requirements to be president. The secre­tary of state could then decide to keep a candidate off the Arizona ballot if he or she had reasonable cause to believe the candidate was ineligible. 
Arizona Secretary of State Ken Bennett opposes the bill, arguing it gives his office too much power, according to his spokesman Matthew Benson. Benson said Bennett, a Republican, has no doubts about Obama’s citizenship. 
The bill now goes to the Senate, where supporters are trying to pull together enough votes to pass the measure. If they do, it’s unclear if Republican Gov. Jan Brewer will give it her support. Her spokesman, Paul Senseman, said the gov­ernor won’t comment on pending legislation, but he added she doesn’t have doubts about Obama’s citi­zenship. 
The measure comes amid a string of controversial pro­posals in Arizona that have garnered national attention, including a sweeping illegal immigration crackdown awaiting action by the gover­nor and a measure allowing people to carry concealed weapons without permits. The governor signed the gun bill last week. 
Rep. Tom Chabin pleaded with his colleagues to oppose the birth certificate measure Wednesday. 
“When you undermine the sitting president of the United States, you under­mine our nation, and it makes us look very ugly,” Chabin said Thursday. 
But some supporters insist the bill isn’t aimed at Obama, it’s just common sense. 
“It’s our ballot," said state Sen. Jack Harper, who believes Obama has proven his citizenship. “The parties need to prove that their nominee is eligible to hold the office of president to be on our ballot." 

IRS investigating Fla. Senate hopeful 
Associated Press 
TALLAHASSEE — Senate hope­ful Marco Rubio, the new darling of the tea-party movement, finds himself caught up in a federal investigation into alleged credit-card abuses by top Florida Republicans. 
Nonetheless, he’s racking up endorsements and holding a dou­ble-digit lead in polls over Republican Gov. Charlie Crist. 
Rubio won the backing Thursday of former Vice President Dick Cheney, a day after Rubio repaid Florida’s Republican Party $2,417 for double-billed flights. It came the same week it was dis­closed that the IRS was investigat­ing Rubio’s use of Republican Party credit cards for personal use. 
Rubio blamed the expense on an accounting error he discovered after the first of several stories on the investigation appeared a few weeks ago in The Miami Herald and the St. Petersburg Times. 
Rubio, 39, acknowledged that he made personal purchases on his party-issued credit card but said he paid those bills out of his own pocket. Among the expenditures that have been called into ques­tion: a $134 charge at a men’s salon in Miami; hotel rooms for a family get-together; and purchases at a wine store. 
In all, 27 people had party credit cards. 
Trailing in the polls, Crist is con­sidering abandoning the Republican Party and running as an independent. It was Crist who asked federal prosecutors recently to investigate spending at the state GOP. 
Crist, 54, has tried to make an issue of Rubio’s use of his party credit card, running negative tele­vision ads and putting out press releases. The ads, however, did nothing to boost Crist’s poll num­bers and have since been taken down. 
The issue doesn’t seem to make any difference to key Republicans. Cheney’s endorsement came just a few days after one from Mitt Romney, a possible 2012 presiden­tial candidate. 
“I just don’t think the financial stuff has penetrated yet. Whether it does or not will depend on whether any actual charges come out of it,” said Peter Brown, assis­tant polling director for Quinnipiac University. 
Many Republicans have aban­doned Crist as too moderate. They were upset that he hugged President Barack Obama and embraced his $787 billion federal stimulus package, too. More recently, party leaders got angry when he vetoed a bill that would have tied teacher raises to stu­dents’ test scores. 
It is a startling reversal of for­tune for the two rivals. Just last year, Rubio, the former Florida House speaker, was 46 percentage points behind Crist in a Quinnipiac poll — the same survey that last week showed Rubio with a com­manding 23-point lead. Rubio took in $3.6 million in the last quarter, compared with $1.1 million for Crist. 
Most voters haven’t had time to sort out all the details of the party spending and who should be blamed, said Republican political scientist Darryl Paulson, a retired University of South Florida profes­sor. Still, the issue has the potential to hurt Rubio, he said. 
“That’s probably fine at this point in time, but he still has ques­tions to answer and the first one for me is why in the world would he put personal expenses on his party credit card to begin with?” Paulson said. 
Crist has until April 30 to decide whether to run as an independent; the primary is in August. 
In endorsing Rubio, Cheney called him someone who could be trusted “to stand up to the Obama agenda that threatens our free­dom, and promote clear conserva­tive alternatives.” 


The Observer 

Business
Friday, April 23, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Renewable energy bill dies on Earth day 
MADISON, Wis. — As outdoor lovers celebrated Earth Day’s 40th anniversary, state lawmakers pulled the plug on a bill that would have set aggressive new renewable energy standards. 
The state Senate finished its two-year session Thursday without voting on the bill after Democratic leaders balked at reports that the measure would drive up utility rates. Senate Majority Leader Russ Decker, D-Weston, has sig­naled for days the measure had little support. 
“We just don’t have the votes,” Decker said. “The businesses back home are really concerned (about the cost).” 
Democrats worked for more than two years on the bill, which would have enacted recommenda­tions from Democratic Gov. Jim Doyle’s climate change task force. After Democrats took control of both the Senate and Assembly in the 2008 election, the time looked perfect to push the legislation out. 
A version introduced in January called for a quarter of Wisconsin’s energy to come from renewable sources by 2025. The bill also eased restrictions on nuclear energy, tightened building codes to increase energy efficiency, imposed idling restrictions and mandated car emission standards similar to California’s, the toughest in the country then. 
Home sales increase in Midwest 
OMAHA, Neb. — Home sales in the Midwest jumped nearly 20 percent over last year as buyers continued to go after expiring federal tax credits. 
The National Association of Realtors said Thursday that 97,000 existing homes sold in March across the 11-state region. And the median sales price was flat at $139,300. 
The Midwest trends were reflected nationally. Compared with March last year, U.S. home sales rose 20 percent, without adjusting for seasonal factors. The median price was also flat, but high­er, at $170,700. 
Realtors say the looming April 30 tax-credit deadline is motivating first-time buyers and keep­ing the market moving. 
“The tax credit really has a lot to do with it,” said Peggy Isakson, president of the Fargo Moorhead Area Association of Realtors. 
Home sales increased in all but one of the 12 major Midwestern cities tracked in the Associated Press-Re/Max Monthly Housing Report. 
Airlines end talk of alliance 
US Airways breaks off talk with United Airlines; United pursues other partners 
Associated Press 

ATLANTA — US Airways has broken off talks with United Airlines, leaving United to pursue a deal with Continental Airlines that would reshuffle the lineup in the airline indus­try. 
US Airways, the nation’s sixth-largest carrier, didn’t specifically say Thursday why it ended talks with United, although Continental’s involvement appears to have played a role. 
Renewed discussions about airline consolidation come as fuel prices are on the rise. While demand for air travel has improved from recession lows, major carriers are still struggling to turn profits. Several major carriers, including Continental, reported first-quarter losses this week. 
Analysts have long main­tained that, despite deep capacity cuts that occurred when demand was weak, the airline industry needs to further shrink to become consistently profitable. 
United and Continental considered combining in 2008 — the same year Delta Air Lines completed its acquisition of Northwest Airlines — until Continental broke off talks. “US Airways was ready to talks was a business one, from consolidation. 
The industry landscape sign a deal with United not an emotional one. “No Smisek declined to com-has changed dramatically when they found out United one is licking any wounds ment on the US Airways since then. was more interested in here,” the person said. decision and gave only the 
Continental has a new signing a deal with US Airways said that barest description of his management lineup since Continental,” said a person while its board decided to company’s actions on con-its earlier talks with who was briefed on the dis-end talks with United, it solidation. United, although cussions. believes it remains viable “As you would expect of a Continental CEO Jeff The person was not as a standalone airline. responsible management Smisek was president and authorized to speak pub-“As I have said many team, we are examining chief operating offer under licly, and spoke on condi-times, it is not necessary Continental’s options and the previous CEO. tion of anonymity. for us to be direct partici-will take whatever action 
United has also tried to “There are some very pants in a merger because we believe to be in the best burnish its finances and hurt feelings in Phoenix,” the entire industry benefits interests of our co-workers, image in the two years the person said. US when consolidation stockholders, customers since. Airways Group Inc. is occurs,” US Airways CEO and the communities we 
“They’ve been able to based in Tempe, Ariz., a Doug Parker said in a serve,” he said. improve revenue and cut suburb of Phoenix. memo to employees. US Airways’ announce-costs,” said Helane Becker, A US Airways official who United, a unit of UAL ment came after word that an analyst with Jesup & spoke on condition of Corp., based in Chicago, United and Continental had Lamont. anonymity because the per-did not directly address US exchanged financial infor-
US Airways, meanwhile, son wasn’t authorized to Airways’ comments in a mation as a prelude to a is the product of one com-publicly discuss private statement, saying only that possible combination bination and long been the conversations said the air-it continues to believe the between those two carri­seeker of another. line’s decision to break off industry would benefit ers. 


Wyoming decides to spray grasshoppers 
Associated Press 

CHEYENNE, Wyo. — If Wyoming experiences a grasshopper outbreak this summer, pest control officials will treat U.S. Bureau of Land Management property in the state by spraying swaths of land with insecticide. 
The BLM conducted an environ­mental study of methods to suppress the bugs and recently selected the “Reduced Area and Agent Treatment” method, known as RAATs. The plan, a common method of treating grasshopper infestations, involves spraying alternating strips of land with the insecticide difluben­zuron, which stops grasshoppers from growing. 
Treating intermittent strips is more efficient than blanket spraying and is still effective because grasshoppers are exposed to the poison as they move in and out of the treated strips, pest control offi­cials say. 
The BLM decided against a similar alternative that would have required more restrictive buffers around certain bird and big game habitat. 
The agency is taking feedback on its environmental study through Monday, but has already found that its preferred treatment would have no significant environmental effects, said Ken Henke, Wyoming BLM’s weed and pest coordinator. 
The 10 local BLM field offices in Wyoming will have a chance to place tighter restrictions on spray­ing if they wish, he said. 
“If public comments come in, if there’s something really significant we missed or some issue we just overlooked, that also could be addressed in the final (environmen­tal assessment),” Henke said. 
A federal survey of adult grasshoppers last fall indicated that northeast and north-central Wyoming could become infested with grasshoppers this summer. The insects are native to Wyoming, but outbreaks of certain pest species can be problematic because of their voracious appetites for grass. 
Pest control officials consider out­break levels to be about 15 grasshoppers per square yard — enough to cause economic prob­lems. 

page 8 The Observer  NEWS Friday, April 23, 2010 
Vatican received letter from abuse victim 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE — A neatly typed letter dated March 5, 1995, is addressed to the No. 2 man at the Vatican and recounts the story of a priest who preyed on deaf boys trapped in dormitories with no chance of escape. 
The letter to Cardinal Angelo Sodano from one of the Rev. Lawrence Murphy’s alleged vic­tims is more evidence for those trying to learn what Vatican offi­cials knew about abuse claims at St. John’s School for the Deaf outside Milwaukee and when. 
The document was revealed Thursday in yet another lawsuit aimed at the highest reaches of the Roman Catholic Church. It’s also significant because it involves Sodano, a strong defender of Pope Benedict XVI’s handling of the global clergy sexual abuse crisis and a man whose own record on a separate high-profile case has come under scrutiny. 
The Vatican’s U.S.-based attor­ney, Jeffrey Lena, said in a state­ment Thursday that the lawsuit was a publicity stunt with no merit and it rehashes theories already rejected by U.S. courts. 
Murphy, who died in 1998, is accused of sexually abusing some 200 boys at the deaf school from 1950 to 1974. He was put on a leave of absence when the allegations were revealed in the early 1970s. The lawsuit claims Murphy was still allowed to serve in ministry and work with children in another Wisconsin diocese into the early 1990s. 
The Vatican has previously said that diocese officials and civil authorities knew about the allegations some 20 years before the Vatican was ever notified. Because of that, Lena said, it cannot be held liable for Murphy’s abuse. 
Murphy’s case drew renewed attention after the recent release of documents called into ques­tion the actions of a Vatican office led by then-Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger. 
Before the disclosure of the 1995 letter to Sodano, it was believed the Vatican first learned of allegations against Murphy in a July 1996 letter from Milwaukee Archbishop Rembert Weakland. That letter was sent to the Congregation of the Doctrine of the Faith, the power­ful Vatican office Ratzinger led from 1981 to his election as pope in 2005. 
That office told the archbishop to move forward with a canoni­cal trial against Murphy in March 1997. But then the office later urged a different course after receiving a letter from Murphy. 
The Rev. Federico Lombardi, a Vatican spokesman, has said they suggested restricting Murphy from ministry rather than holding a full-blown canon­ical trial, citing Murphy’s age, failing health, and a lack of fur­ther allegations. 
The Wisconsin bishops ordered the proceedings halted, but in the end, Murphy died while still a defendant in a canonical trial, which could have led to Murphy being laicized, or stripped of the priesthood. 
The defendants in the lawsuit are Ratzinger, Sodano, Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone and the Holy See, identified as the state of the Vatican City. Bertone was Ratzinger’s deputy at the time and is now the Vatican’s secre­tary of state. 
The lawsuit claims all three men knew about the allegations against Murphy and conspired to keep them secret. The lawsuit says the claims are based on “information and belief” but doesn’t offer proof. 
Sodano has long been accused in news reports in U.S. Catholic publications and other outlets of stalling a Vatican probe of the Rev. Marcial Maciel, the discred­ited founder of the Legionaries of Christ. The order has admit­ted that the late Maciel fathered at least one child and molested young seminarians. 
Anderson, the plaintiff’s lawyer, provided a copy of a receipt showing the registered letter to Sodano had reached the Vatican. The man wrote Sodano 
— 
then the Vatican’s Secretary of State — again and got no response, according to Anderson. 

Lena said that at the time, it was a local matter regarding a local priest and the victim had already communicated with the local bishop. Under those cir­cumstances, Lena said it is “entirely appropriate” under canon law for the local diocese 

— 
not the Holy See — to respond. 


Thursday’s lawsuit is not the first to aim directly at the Vatican, even from Anderson. Another lawsuit of his remains open in Oregon and was recently allowed to move forward by a federal appeals court. In a sepa­rate Kentucky lawsuit, Vatican attorneys are mounting a defense they hope will shield the pope from having to answer attorneys’ questions under oath. 
Some legal experts questioned the Wisconsin lawsuit’s prospects. 
Nicholas Cafardi, a canon lawyer and former dean at the Duquesne University School of Law, said he doesn’t believe Anderson can overcome sover­eign immunity hurdles. He said the lawsuit describes the Roman Catholic Church as if it were an international commercial busi­ness and it’s not. 
“He’s alleging an employment relationship between individual priests and the Holy See,” Cafardi said. “I’m sorry, but diocesan priests in the United States are not employees of the Holy See ... If a court were to accept that, they would be creat-ing a new Catholic Church, not the one that exists now." 

But Washington, D.C., attorney Jonathan Levy, a specialist in international law who has tried suing the Vatican Bank over Holocaust claims, said Anderson could succeed in taking advan­tage of exceptions to sovereign immunity. 
“I’d say he’s got some new and exciting theories in there why the Vatican should be held responsible for its bad acts,” Levy said. 


Friday, April 23, 2010 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Harris,Nuremberg prosecutor, dies 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS — Whitney Harris, who was a member of the U.S. legal team that prosecuted Nazis at Nuremberg after World War II, has died. He was 97. 
Harris was the last surviving of the three Nuremberg prose­cutors, the St. Louis Post-Dispatch said. He died Wednesday at his home in the suburban St. Louis town of Frontenac, according to his stepdaughter, Theresa Galakatos of Richmond Heights. She said he had been battling cancer for three years and had been in and out of the hospital since suffering a fall in his home about six months ago. 
Harris was lead prosecutor in the first of the Nuremberg war-crime trials in 1945 and tried Ernst Kaltenbrunner, the senior surviving leader of the Nazi Security Police. He also helped cross-examine Hermann Goering, Hitler’s second-in-com­mand, and helped get the con­fession of Rudolf Franz Ferdinand Hoess, head of the Auschwitz concentration camp. 
In his later years, Harris was an author and gave speeches on human rights. In 1980, he established the Whitney R. Harris Collection on the Third Reich of Germany at Washington University in St. Louis. He also is the namesake of the university’s Whitney R. Harris World Law Institute. 
“He basically dedicated his life to trying to develop an inter­national justice system to deal with war crimes against humanity and genocide,” said his son, Eugene Harris, 45, of Olivette in suburban St. Louis. 

This year is the 65th anniver­sary of the Nuremberg trials, Eugene Harris noted, “and peo­ple are forgetting. As each of these important participants die, there’s a big amount of knowledge that’s being lost in the process.” 
Harris was born in Seattle on Aug. 12, 1912. He graduated in 1933 from the University of Washington and received his law degree from the University of California, Berkeley, in 1936. He joined the Navy after the start of World War II, and fol­lowing the war was put in charge of investigating war crimes. 
In August 1945, he became one of the first members of the European staff for the trial of major German war criminals. The court tried 22 high-ranking Nazis, convicted 19 and sen­tenced 12 to death. Harris was the only prosecutor who attend­ed the executions. 
After the war he became a professor of law at Southern Methodist University, and served as chairman of the International Law Section of the American Bar Association in 1953-54. 
Harris is credited with writing the first comprehensive book on the Nuremberg trials, “Tyranny on Trial, the Evidence at Nuremberg,” which was described by the New York Times as “the first complete his­torical and legal analysis of the Nuremberg trial." 

Man executed for killing teen 
Texas inmate was convicted of murder and rape; denied charges 
Associated Press 
HUNTSVILLE — A Texas inmate convicted of fatally shooting an El Paso high school senior after robbing and sexually assaulting her was executed Thursday evening in the nation ’s busiest death penalty state. 
William Josef Berkley was condemned to death for the March 2000 slaying of 18­year-old Sophia Martinez, whose body was found in the desert outside El Paso after being robbed at a drive ­through ATM. She had been shot in the head five times and there was evidence she’d been raped. 
Berkley was the sixth Texas inmate to receive lethal injec­tion this year. Ten other pris­oners are set to die over the next three months. 
During his final statement, Berkley did not mention Martinez nor look at or speak to the mother and two sisters of the victim. In an interview with The Associated Press before his execution, Berkley denied killing Martinez. 
In his brief statement, Berkley thanked his girl ­friend, a friend and his spiri­tual adviser, who were at the execution, for their love and support. 
“Warden, let her rip, ” Berkley said, just before the lethal injection was adminis­tered. 
As the drugs took effect, he gasped at least twice. Nine minutes later, at 6:18 p.m. CDT, he was pronounced dead. 
In a statement, MaryAnn Martinez, the victim’s sister, said she and her family attended the execution so that their loved one wasn’t forgotten. 
“Today is not about revenge. That’s not in our hands,” MaryAnn Martinez told reporters afterward. 

AP In this March 31 photo, William Josef Berkley is seen from the visiting cage outside death row in Livingston, Tex. 
“Today is not about closure. Making peace with her death and absence only comes from God.” 
The U.S. Supreme Court turned down Berkley’s appeal late Thursday. The high court last year refused to review his case. On Wednesday, the 5th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals rejected his appeal. 
Martinez was robbed after pulling up to a drive-through ATM to withdraw $20 for spending on a Friday night. 
A surveillance camera caught the robbery on tape and showed a man prosecu­tors said was Berkley forcing his way into Martinez’s car. After being forced to with­draw $200 from the ATM, Martinez drove off with Berkley. 
Two days later, Martinez’s body was found in the desert about 10 miles away. 
Jaime Esparza, the El Paso district attorney who prose­cuted Berkley, said there was plenty of evidence the con­demned inmate killed Martinez, including a signed confession where he admitted shooting her. 
The jury was shown a photo from the surveillance camera that prosecutors said was Berkley. 
Frank Macias, Berkley ’s lawyer at his 2002 trial, said the photo was “a bad picture” but was “difficult to refute." 
Prosecutors also had DNA evidence showing Berkley had sex with Martinez. 
Berkley insisted the sex was consensual because he and Martinez had been friends for several months. Esparza said there was no evidence indicating Martinez knew him. 
Berkley, a self-described marijuana-smoking, baggy-jeans -wearing, “sarcastic smart ass," was born in Germany, where his father was posted with the U.S. Army. His family moved to El Paso when he was in the fourth grade. He dropped out of high school in 10th grade. 
Berkley said he had dual citizenship with Germany. The German government did-n’t step in to intervene in the case. 
Calif.emissionsrulingdelayed 
Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO — California air regulators took steps Thursday to delay the nation’s toughest rules to slash emissions from diesel-powered construction equipment, saying the poor economy has left many of the vehicles sitting idle. 
Members of the California Air Resources Board said they want to give companies more time to comply because construction activity in the state is down about 50 percent since the regulations were adopted three years ago, and that has significantly reduced harmful emissions. 
“Unfavorable economic times make it more difficult for industry to comply with our regulations and function,” board chairwoman Mary Nichols said. 
The regulations, referred to as off-highway diesel rules, were scheduled to take effect this year, and some companies have already spent millions of dollars on new equipment to comply. 
No formal vote was taken Thursday, but the board directed its staff to determine ways the construction industry can more easily reach the state’s goal of cutting diesel emissions by 2014, the date required to meet federal clean air standards. 
Thursday’s debate comes four months after the board decided to explore loosening similar diesel rules for trucks and buses. 
Any new guidelines for trucks and construction equipment were expected to be put to a vote in September. 
While the economy was the driving reason for reviewing both rules, board staff reported Thursday they had overestimated how much pollution construction equipment, buses and trucks emit into the air. 
For example, there are about 200,000 fewer construction vehi­cles in California than the board had initially thought, and the industry didn’t use as much diesel as expected. So, the regulation assumed there were 50 to 80 per­cent more emissions that needed to be cut, according to board staff. 
The revelation drew criticism from a few of the board members and industry groups who called for better numbers before impos­ing costly regulations. 
“Until they are right, you’re asking us to spend billions of dol­lars to reduce phantom emis­sions, and we’re not going to do that,” said Michael Lewis of the Construction Industry Air Quality Coalition, which is based in Southern California. 
Industry representatives urged the board to delay the regulations by five years, citing the much lower emissions footprint of con­struction. 
The off-highway diesel rules passed in 2007 require tractors, forklifts, bulldozers and other types of diesel-powered equip­ment to be replaced or retrofitted over the next 15 years. Large fleets have until 2020, while fleets with fewer than 20 vehicles have until 2025. 
Firms with large fleets were supposed to start replacing and retrofitting vehicles beginning March 1, but California is waiting for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to grant the state a waiver from federal regu­lations under the federal Clean Air Act. The California rules can’t be enforced without the waiver. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 10 Friday, April 23, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
The Independent, Daily Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 

Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnewseditor.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 pcoveney@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Katie Peralta Jared Jedick Molly Madden Molly Sammon Carly Landon Kevin Baldwin 
Graphics Viewpoint 
Gasper Garcia de Lauren Paredes Brauweiler 
Scene 
Adriana Pratt 

Pep rally focus should be students 
Notre Dame football weekends are rich in rituals, from midnight drummers’ circle to tailgating to cheering in the stands. But the festivities start with the Friday night pep rally. 
In recent years, however, growing numbers of students have chosen other events — a movie, a party, dinner in the dining hall — over a pep rally. Student government, led by former student body president Grant Schmidt and vice president Cynthia Weber, made some progress in revamp­ing the rallies to attract more students, although bureau­
cracy hindered any drastic change. 
Building on the efforts of their predeces­sors, current student body president Catherine Soler and vice president Andrew Bell have already helped set up a partial schedule for next fall’s pep rallies before the end of spring football practice. While alumni and other fans are still welcome, 
Soler said, students and the football team should be the heart of the rallies. 
Soler and Bell’s proactive planning shows a commend­able first step for their administration. And with the help of Irish coach Brian Kelly, perhaps the University could suc­ceed in making students the priority again. So far, it looks promising. 
Old yearbooks show sweaty, shouting students packing into the Joyce Center, Stepan Center and even the now-demolished Fieldhouse for football rallies. They are waving signs, sitting on shoulders and throwing toilet paper. The students look excited, even ecstatic, to be supporting their football team. This is the atmosphere next year’s pep ral­lies should strive to recreate. 
With the Purcell Pavilion under construction, last fall’s pep rallies moved to the newly-landscaped Irish Green. This large outdoor space was perfect for merchandise tents, food stands and children’s entertainments, but few students attended. 
The reasons were numerous: There was no special sec­tion for students, which all but eliminated the residence-hall pride so integral for other rallies. This free-for-all, standing-room-only setup had students doing the jig into grandparents’ shins. Only a couple football players attend­ed each rally, usually just to deliver a short speech. Without walls or a ceiling, the cheers of the crowd floated away. 
Last fall’s USC pep rally was the exception. In honor of the rivalry game, the students had a roped-off section at the front of the crowd, the entire football team attended and former Irish player Raghib “Rocket” Ismail topped it all off with a rousing sermon of a pep talk. If Irish Green pep rallies are a must, then they should be modeled after last year’s USC pep rally. 
The student dissatisfaction stretches back to the JACC pep rallies in 2008, when Sorin College even organized a 

boycott. Students would have to wait through an hour of videos, speeches and dance performances before the team arrived. Players and guest speak­ers would then try to rile up the crowd, but with the team wearing suits and seated in formal rows of chairs, there was little feeling of community. 
The “us” and “them” separation was evident at the JACC and Irish Green, but Kelly is clearly 
making an effort to mend this gap by working with student government on the pep rallies. 
So far, only four have been planned: the traditional Dillon Pep Rally before the Purdue game, Irish Green before Michigan, Purcell Pavilion before Stanford and a send-off rally at Stepan for the Boston College away game. 
This leaves open the possibility of adapting the format and venue based on what works and what doesn’t, while a different setting each week should also keep the rallies fresh. 
But the No. 1 priority should be creating an authentic, electric atmosphere. Schmidt and Weber’s administration were able to provide that for at least one Thursday night last fall. The student-only rally in Stepan Center before the Michigan away game was a raucous send-off. Toilet paper flew through the air, not-so-family-friendly chants shook the walls and members of the football team crowd-surfed. The rally was passionate because it was unscripted, unsu­pervised and brought everyone together. 
But the Notre Dame tradition and spirit extends beyond the current student body, and as such most pep rallies should still be open to the public. However, last season’s events at Irish Green tried too hard to be family-friendly moneymakers. In trying to welcome everyone, those rallies lost an important member of the Notre Dame family: the students. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“A man travels the world over in 
“Just to be is a blessing. 

search of what he needs and 
Just to live is holy.” 

returns home to find it.” 
Rabbi Abraham Heschel

George A. Moore 
American rabbi

Irish writer 
The Observer 

Viewpoint
Friday, April 23, 2010 page 11 
That Little Black Dress 
As our tuk-tuk turned down the dirt road into the center of Vang Vieng (Laos) and I saw the restaurants where televisions were playing old episodes of “Friends;” my face lit up like the top of the Chrysler Building. I was so happy for our arrival at this leg­endary Southeast Asian mecca of day drinking that one of the Slovenians I was travelling with point­ed out the look on my face. I was brim­ming with excite-

Bob Kessler 
ment. When I think hap-

The 17th 
piness, I think of 

Grade 
moments like this. Moments like the Sunday before Thanksgiving of my senior year when I was lying on the floor of my friends’ apartment, painfully hungover, as they listened to Taylor Swift songs while cooking a Thanksgiving dinner. Moments like my first football game in the student section when (after a decade of sitting with my dad and watching enviously from across the stadi­um) I was finally thrown in the air in joy following an Irish touchdown. 
True happiness is like a Mike Brey fist pump when one of his players knocks down a 3. It’s Desmond seeing Penny for the first time and fainting back to another life when they touch. It’s the taste of malt liquor on your lips at 4:00 on a Friday afternoon; and it’s “a billboard on the side of the road that screams reassurance that whatever you are doing is ok.” 
But are Notre Dame Students really happy? 
A couple weeks ago The Daily Beast released its rankings of the “100 Happiest Colleges in America.” Much to my shock and dismay, Notre Dame appeared in these supposedly comprehensive rankings at No. 
58. If the happiest colleges in America were put into an NCAA tourney style bracket, we would be a No. 15 seed. To put this in perspective, the overall happiness of Notre Dame Students is comparable to the academic rigors of Purdue University or the gridiron prowess of the Division 1-AA Richmond Spiders. 
If we treated the happiness of our stu­dents in the same way that we treat suc­cess on the football field or in the class­room, I imagine school administrators would have joined Bob Davie in the broad­cast booth a long time ago. With Fr. Jenkins calling play-by-play and Mr. Kirk looking over the student section with his binoculars, ESPN would have its best team since Olbermann left to make special com­ments. 
If we’re to believe The Daily Beast, how­ever, then we have to ask ourselves: Why aren’t Notre Dame students happy? 
Of course we can start with the obvious reasons. We can talk about single-sex dorms and sweatpants, football losses and cold weather. We can think about the lack of bidets in the residence halls, the prolifer­ation of students taking the Eucharist with their mouths or the unfortunate loss of my beloved radio tower tailgating lot. We can 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Clarifications 
After reading the article in The Observer regarding the Family Friendly Petition presented to the University in which I was quoted (“Graduate students to file petition,” April 16), I said to myself, there are numerous ways in which my comments could be misconstrued. I thought, someone is bound to respond to this, and with no small degree of vitriol. Sure enough, in The Observer’s April 21 edition, Emily Stetler obliged. Ms. Stetler’s letter, “Not So Friendly,” demonstrated that some clarification is required on my part lest my comments be too narrowly and unchari­tably interpreted, and the cause of the organizers of the Family Friendly Petition be undermined. 
I did not intend by my comments to imply that those living a married life with children are the only group able to live out the values espoused by the Catholic Church. This would clearly exclude both clergy, and married couples who can­not have children, among others, which would be ridicu­lous. My use of the image of the child running into the arms of her parent was just that, an image or a symbol. But a symbol of what? The life of a parent, to a significant extent, is one of self-sacrifice and giving of oneself for others. Parents sacrifice much for the well being of their children and the graduate student parents of Notre Dame, no matter what their religious beliefs, are no exception. These same principles, self-sacrifice and self-giving, are cornerstones of the teaching of the Catholic faith. Wherever the young stu­dents at Notre Dame encounter lives that are witnesses to these principles, whether in graduate student and faculty parents, or the clergy serving them, their lives are enriched. 
I would also like to take this opportunity to make a further point regarding the University’s policies on families. As the University Village representative at the Graduate Student Union (GSU), I have been privy to a number of discussions on the topic of the Family Friendly Petition. There is much talk about what power the graduate students have to get the University to adopt a policy more friendly to the graduate students who choose to take on family life while completing their degrees. It dawned on me only later that we really have no power, but that this is really the point: we are pow­erless. Now I am not a student of theology or Catholic doc­trine, but I am pretty sure that the Church teaches that one ought to have a certain reaction when it comes to the needs of the powerless. I do not in any way want to detract from what the University has done thus far for graduate student families, but more can be done. Moreover, it is clear from the conclusion of Ms. Stetler’s letter that she agrees. 
Sincerely Yours, 
Peter Campbell 
graduate student off campus April 21 
mention Gody jacking 3s, Lane Kiffin recruiting unborn fetuses and grad stu­dents whining about whatever’s supposed to go behind Touchdown Jesus, but none of these things will get us closer to a Doc Jensen style unified theory of why Notre Dame students aren’t as happy as McNulty is when he stops drinking. 
I believe that the lack of happiness amongst Notre Dame students shouldn’t be blamed on all of these external factors, but on the students themselves. More specifi­cally, the lower happiness rankings could be an outcome of our quest to pad stats and improve the perception of academic prestige by recruiting students who would rather spend a Friday night studying Orgo in the library than singing “Love Story” at The Backer. 
This numbers game creates institutional dysfunction by favoring students for whom Notre Dame is not a dream. Of course we need our fair share of Ivy and Stanford rejects, but the obsession with academic rankings and aspirational peers creates the risk that each increasingly smarter fresh­men class will have higher numbers of stu­dents that aren’t attending their dream school; students that aren’t as happy as they could be. While some of these students will turn out to be great members of the Notre Dame community, we can’t afford to roll the dice on classes full of them. 
I’m concerned because Notre Dame needs students that truly understand and appreciate what makes this place special. We need students that know how much Rudy struggled to get here, and students that go out of their way to show off their student ID to their grandparents. We need students that understand how “work hard, party hard” doesn’t mean doing homework a couple hours before kickoff; and yes, we need students that have long been waiting for the day when they too can be thrown in the air with joy after a Notre Dame touch­down. 
We need students whose admission to Notre Dame is one of those exceptional moments that make them truly happy. 
Or maybe not. Maybe I’m just overthink­ing a bogus set of rankings from a website whose headlines this week have included “Rise of the Fembots” and “The Queering of Ryan Seacrest.” Maybe you can’t put a ranking on happiness, and maybe it is just an A on an Orgo test after five straight weekend nights of studying. Maybe I am wrong — but at least I’ve had fun writing about it. 
Bob Kessler is a 2009 graduate cur­rently teaching English in China. He feels lucky to have had such an awe­some experience writing for this paper over the past five semesters, and would like to thank everybody that has been reading. You can continue to read his work at www.thingsnotredamestudentslike.com and www.the17thgrade.com, and can always contact him at bob020787@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Take it easy on Golic 


As the son of a die-hard football fan and alumnus, a title which hopefully will extend to myself in about three weeks, I know the impor­tance of this university and the desire to repre­sent it with honor. On Friday, the new Shirt will be unveiled for the football season, and, like past years, Mike Golic will be in attendance. As a graduate who made a name for himself here and in the NFL, as well as a proud parent of a current football star, he always enjoys coming to campus. Unfortunately, this time will be bit­tersweet. For those you who do not know, Mike recently lost a bet to his ESPN Radio co-host Mike Greenberg. The unpleasant task facing Mike Golic, while cheering his school and pro­moting his new book, is to don USC Trojan red and gold during his time on campus. Anyone 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
who sees him should understand his hardship and refrain from any insults, but rather sympa­thize with this ambassador to our school and keep in mind the tremendous burden placed on him this weekend. Mike Golic is a man of his word; he endured a live waxing on his show last year due to a failed wager. He truly bleeds blue and gold, so during this weekend look at him with respect and empathy while restrain­ing yourself from yelling any obscenities that become associated with just about everyone who wears those appalling colors. Go Irish! 
Christopher Lushis 
senior St. Ed’s Hall April 22 
The Observer 

Scene
page 12 Friday, April 23, 2010 

Scene Staff Report 

The 2010 Battle of the Bands will take center stage Friday at 8 p.m. Head to Legends to see Notre Dame’s very own rock out with and against the best our University has to offer and enjoy a night of singing, dancing and straight-up jamming. 







GASPAR GARCIA de PAREDES l Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Friday, April 23, 2010 page 13 


By NICK ANDERSON 
Assistant Scene Editor 

It’s been more than 30 years since Kurtis Blow signed a record deal with a major label. Since then, hip-hop has rapidly evolved from a niche scene in New York City to one of the dominant forces in modern culture. A generation is currently coming of age that has never dealt with the “Does rap count as music?” debate. These kids grew up with OutKast, Eminem and Nas being not only present on the Billboard Charts, but topping them. It is inevitable, then, that hip-hop will start coming from nontradition­al places in nontraditional ways. A generation of rappers who found music on the radio, not the street, are coming up now and they’re coming up 
him to hip hop back in seventh grade, he has been quietly writing rhymes and freestyling for friends. Since his arrival at Notre Dame, he has branched out, recording his first rhyme, “Take a Breath,” in September. Seven months later, he’s ready to go public. 
“Extracurricular” proves a strong outing, especially for a first timer. 
D. Montayne shows off a rock steady flow with only the slightest quiver of inexperience, and his rolling deep tone gives a quality presence on the mike. The choice of beats is a beautiful collection of ear catching but lesser known piece, presenting a welcome familiarity without sounding canned. 
But D. Montayne’s strength lies in his lyrics. He’s a capable rhymer who punctuates his songs with 
striking 
im a g e r y,
fast. 
D. 

potent social 
commentary 
Montayne is 

and witty 
Notre 
Dame’s own 

boasts. His 
point of view is 
member of 

strong and 
that gener­
ation. 

consistent 
without over-
Outside of 

powering a
music, D. 
Montayne is 

playful swag-
Dylan 

ger. His words 
come naturally 
Walter, a 
typical 

and, powered 
Notre Dame 

by his sturdy 
flow, arrive 
student. 
He’s a 

with their 
freshman 

intended 
impact. 
working his 

Several
way toward 
a business 

tracks stand 
out not only 
degree and 

against the 
dealing 
with the 

other tracks 
on the mix-
same 

tape, but also 
uniq uely 
Notre Dame 

from the cur­
rent state of 
social life as 

popular hip 
the rest of 


us. Stuck with a dreary winter on campus, he spent his time in February and March recording his mixtape. 
Mixtapes have become the pre­dominate feature of the do-it-your­self musical ethos. Superstars such as 50 Cent and Lil’ Wayne have made an art of the mixtape itself, often overshadowing work on their albums. For D. Montayne, a mix-tape offered the perfect route to express his passion. By recording in his dorm room, the cost was next to nothing. Because of this, it can be distributed free of charge, getting his name and music out to the largest possible audience. 
While “Extracurricular” is the product of his first attempt at recording, he’s no stranger to the music. Since his brother introduced 
hop. “So Official,” a freestyle, pounds with the confidence of a veteran. However, the most intriguing track is “Hear No Evil.” It’s the heaviest piece of social commentary but manages to do so without preaching down to its audience and deserves a place as proof that music can be a positive force. 
D. Montayne’s not looking too far ahead. He wants to keep writing and performing, but is waiting to hear the reception to “Extracurricular” before rushing into more recording. If the public’s reaction corresponds to the mix tape’s quality, we should be expect­ing to hear from him again soon. 
Contact Nick Anderon at nanders5@nd.edu 
By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Assistant Scene Editor 
The idea is there. A student sec­tion united in one color, an intimi­dating symbol of the Fighting Irish. Not only does it bond together the students, but it also brings together Domers around the world who love to don The Shirt to support Our Lady’s University and the cause it supports. 
However, the idea falls apart when the student section is united to form a flesh-colored blob in the back left corner of the stadium. A flesh-col­ored blob is not intimidating. It is especially not intimidating when it accompanies an obvious sexual innuendo. 
Last football season’s “Rise and Strike” shirt (yeah, how many peo­ple didn’t just giggle while reading that?) was the 20th anniversary Shirt. It was the perfect opportunity to hearken back to older shirts, to bring back the color green, like the kelly green that united the student section in 1990, the first year of The Shirt. 
That was the real problem with last season’s Shirt: the color. The Notre Dame student body is already united in the fact that many of us are Irish Americans. We didn’t need a shirt to match our pasty skin. 
I took a stroll through LaFortune to take a gander at what The Shirt looked like in past years, as I have really only seen the past three or four, and found a few that I liked. I’m hoping that the people in charge of The Shirt project did too, because they could receive some wonderful inspiration. 
The Shirt from 1992 especially struck me because I hope it is one that can be brought back soon. Plain across the front, with a simple “Notre Dame Football” below a small golden dome, it is the back that, as is typical of The Shirt, draws the most attention. Mount Rushmore has been redone to dis­play the faces of legendary Notre Dame coaches Frank Leahy, Dan Devine, Ara Parseghian and Knute Rockne. In color, set against the mountain, is Lou Holtz, fresh off his National Championship winning season, with “the tradition contin­ues…” scrawled below him. 
I sincerely hope that, one day soon, this shirt can be brought back with new coach Brian Kelly adorn­ing the bottom of Notre Dame’s Mount Rushmore, after he leads us to another National Championship season with his new coaching style. 
Another one I liked was from 2003. The front was once again simple: “Here come the Irish” writ­ten over a shamrock. Across the back, surrounding a full color pic­ture of football players exiting the tunnel, read the iconic words from the song by Jim Tullio and John Scully, “There’s a magic in the sound of their name. Here come the Irish of Notre Dame.” 
I really liked this shirt because of its incorporation of the song, “Here Come the Irish.” On Gameday, that song can be heard all over campus, from tailgates to concession stands, so I found the lyrics very appropriate and inspiring to grace the famous shirt worn by almost the entire campus. 
No matter my opinion on last season’s Shirt, though, I am excit­ed for the unveiling of this year’s. I am hoping that the committee has learned its lesson — that gold does not translate well into the color of a T-shirt — and has devel­oped a fresh new design to wel­come in a new era at our fine University. 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 

GASPAR GARCIA de PAREDES l Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Friday, April 23, 2010 
MLB 

Brewers hand Pirates most-lopsided loss ever 
Jimenez continues success on mound in Rockies’ win over Nationals; Twins deal with injuries, lose to Indians 
twice, singled and scored four butt,” Pittsburgh manager John 
Associated Press 

times. Russell said. “Whoever comes in 
PITTSBURGH — Ryan Braun, “Now that was something is going to do that if we don’t Jim Edmonds and the else,” Milwaukee manager Ken pitch well. We need to learn Milwaukee Brewers went totally Macha said. from this game. We don’t want batty. Randy Wolf (2-1) pitched six to do this anymore.” 
The Brew Crew piled up 25 scoreless innings and three Braun hit a three-run homer hits Thursday and trounced relievers finished up. The to end a nine-pitch at-bat in the Pittsburgh 20-0, handing the Brewers won their fourth in a third inning to push Milwaukee’s Pirates the most-lopsided loss in row and gave Pittsburgh its third lead to 4-0 and added a two-run their 124-year history. straight loss. double. Fielder took a while to 
“It was fun and it was special,” Daniel McCutchen (0-2) was hit a home run — he tied for sec-said Braun, who homered, dou-tagged for six runs and eight hits ond in the NL last year with 46. bled, singled and drove in five in 3 2-3 innings. Remarkably, his Wolf allowed six hits and runs. “This game is really so ERA stayed the same as it was improved his career record much about failure, particularly entering the game, 14.73. against Pittsburgh to 8-1. as a hitter, that you rarely get a “Lots of times, it felt like I was Claudio Vargas, Manny Parra day where everyone is enjoying throwing batting practice to and Trevor Hoffman each so much success at the same them,” McCutchen said. pitched one inning. time.” The Brewers also won by 20 in Fielder started the scoring 
“I’ve never been involved in a 1992 when they beat Toronto with his solo home run to center game like this and I likely never 22-2. The Pirates’ previous one-field in the second inning and will be again. So, I enjoyed it and sided loss was by 18 runs, done Braun’s drive in the third made I’ll savor it. It’s one to remem-twice. it 4-0. ber,” he said. Milwaukee swept the three-Fielder hit a two-run single in 
Milwaukee matched a club game series and outscored the the fourth off D.J. Carrasco. An mark for margin of victory and Pirates 36-1. Pittsburgh has lost inning later, Kottaras homered set a record for its biggest eight times this season, by at and Braun doubled for a 10-0 shutout win. least six runs each time and 85-cushion. 
Prince Fielder hit his first 13 overall. Edmonds’ homer highlighted a tory over the Minnesota year ago, in a game at Boston home run of the season while According to STATS LLC, it six-run seventh off Joel Twins on Thursday. against the Red Sox. Edmonds and George Kottaras was the fifth most-lopsided Hanrahan and closer Octavio Talbot (2-1) followed his Twins manager Ron also connected — they were shutout in modern major league Dotel gave up four runs in the first major league win, a com-Gardenhire rested catcher among 10 Brewers with an RBI. history, which began in 1900. ninth. plete game last weekend Joe Mauer for only the second Milwaukee finished with 12 The Indians beat the Yankees “Games like these are awk-against the Chicago White time in 16 games this season, extra-base hits. 22-0 in 2004 and the Pirates ward,” Edmonds said. “You don’t Sox, with six impressive his body a bit sore as typical 
Milwaukee led 10-0 after five beat the Cubs by the same score want to keep piling on the runs innings. He held the Twins to for a day game following a innings then scored six runs in in 1975. The 35-run differential but you also have to respect the two hits and no earned runs night game. Rookie Drew the seventh and four more in the in a three-game series tied for game and keep playing. It was to keep them from sweeping Butera started instead and ninth. The rout came a day after the third largest; the largest was just a day where everything the three-game series. got his first major league hit, the Brewers beat up Pittsburgh 40 runs (50-10) by the Superbas, went right for us and everything The Indians, who were last a groundball single to left 8-0. now the Dodgers, over the Reds went wrong for them.” in the league in batting aver-field in the third inning. 
Edmonds doubled twice and in 1901. age and slugging percentage Butera, the son of former singled. Rickie Weeks doubled “They came in and kicked our Rockies 2, Nationals 0 entering this game, matched Twins catcher Sal Butera, is 
Colorado’s Ubaldo Jimenez their season high with eight here strictly for his defense — followed up his no-hitter by runs. and he helped save Baker tossing 7 1-3 shutout innings, The right -handed Talbot from another run in the sixth Miguel Olivo and Ian Stewart walked three, struck out by throwing out Marte trying hit solo homers for the first three and watched Andy to steal second right before runs allowed this season by Marte give him a healthy lead Valbuena’s double. Washington’s Livan with a two-run homer in the Shortstop J.J. Hardy also Hernandez, and the Rockies fourth inning. Marte also hit a sat out for the Twins for the beat the Nationals on sinking RBI single to center in first time, his knee a little Thursday. the sixth. sore. Alexi Casilla filled in 
Overpowering at times, This was the worst of four admirably in the field, shift-Jimenez allowed five hits, starts this season for Scott ing to the right side for pure-struck out five, and got 15 of Baker (2-2), who surrendered pull -hitter Travis Hafner. his 22 outs via grounders en back -to -back ground -rule Casilla charged a slow route to improving to 4-0 with doubles — one down each grounder in the fourth and a 0.95 ERA — meaning he is line — to Asdrubal Cabrera shoveled it forward in one responsible for half of and Grady Sizemore to start motion as he sprawled Colorado’s eight victories in the game. Baker was tagged toward first base to get the 2010. In his previous start, the with six runs before his day out. right-hander threw the first was done. Cabrera made an even bet-no-hitter in Rockies history, Cleveland led 3-1 in the ter play for the Indians, div-Saturday against Atlanta sixth, when Baker gave up ing to stop a sharp grounder 
Hernandez (2-1) gave up five straight one-out hits and by Michael Cuddyer and only four hits across eight was taken out of the game. starting a double play to end innings, but he made two mis-He threw 92 pitches, 69 of the seventh inning. takes: to Olivo in the second them strikes — some of them Marte cost Talbot his only inning and to Stewart in the big, fat strikes the Indians run, dropping a foul popup seventh. used to jump-start their lag-near third base hit by 
ging offense. Orlando Hudson. Hudson Indians 8, Twins 1 Russell Branyan doubled walked, moved up on a balk 
Mitch Talbot turned in and drove in two runs, and on Talbot’s pickoff throw, took another strong start for Luis Valbuena also hit an RBI third on a fly out and scored Cleveland, and the Indians double. The last time Baker in the fourth on Justin finally got some hits in an vic-gave up 10 hits was exactly a Morneau’s double. 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Apartment for sub-lease at Irish Graduation week/Football Season this 4br, 2b house. Call Lois http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu row. Contact Sam at is coming - Make reservation now McKinley, Coldwell Banker 574-——————————————— WANTED FOR RENT skrause1@nd.edu. Rent nego-with Georgia Peach Bed and 360-6071. If you or someone you care about 
tiable. Breakfast with four bedroom. (We has been sexually assaulted, we SUMMER WORK, great pay, flexi-New upscale apts. Less than 1 mil ——————————————— will rent the house). We are located can help. For more information, visit ble schedules, from ND, next to Taco Bell on SR Bed &amp; bkfast, 2 br 1 full bath; eight miles from Notre Dame. We PERSONAL Notre Dame's website: no experience needed, customer 933. 2-story, 8 unit bldg. Each has home 10 min. from ND. Any time. are registered on the Niles http.csap.nd.edu sales/service, ages 18+, 2bd/2bath. GE appliances w/dish-Negotiable rate. Call Kay 574-229-Chamber of Commerce web site. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do ——————————————— www.workforstudents.com washer. Mstr. bdrm w/walkin closet. 6223. chamber@nilesmi.com. For more not go it alone. Notre Dame has more money for your textbooks, ——————————————— No water/sewer bill. ——————————————— info, call (269)687-8499. many resources in place to assist free dorm room pickup, fast pay-ND &amp; SMC Students -$1000/mo starting. Call Holiday Inn House 3 bed, 3 bath, new you. If you or someone you love ment, dormbooks.com campus job - textbook buyer during Express @ 968-8080 &amp; leave rehab/clean, needs confidential support or assis-——————————————— finals week -msg. so close to ND you can see campus FOR SALE tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at Dear Jared Jedick, 
——————————————— from the yard! Email 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For Thanks for your hard work! $10+/hour-dormbooks.com gradrentals.viewwork.com alexrock@rock.com! Dad & Mom, ask your accountant if more information, visit ND's web -The Observer ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— student son/daughter can manage site: ——————————————— 
Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Friday, April 23, 2010 page 15 
Men’s Division I Lacrosse Nike/Inside Lacrosse Poll 
team previous 
1 Syracuse 2 2 Virginia 1 3 North Carolina 3 4 Maryland 4 5 Duke 6 6 Princeton 5 7 Loyola (Md.) 10 8 Cornell 9 9 Villanova 13 10 Drexel 7 11 Yale 15 12 Stony Brook 14 13 Georgetown 8 14 Hofstra 11 15 Towson NR 16 Massachusetts 12 17 Fairfield 19 18 Denver NR 19 Johns Hopkins 16 20 Army NR 
Women’s Division I Lacrosse Inside Lacrosse Poll 
team  previous  
1  North Carolina  2  
2  Northwestern  1  
3  Maryland  3  
4  Virginia  4  
5  Penn  7  
6  Duke  5  
7  Dartmouth  6  
8  Vanderbilt  8  
9  Towson  9  
10  Syracuse  10  
11  James Madison  12  
12  NOTRE DAME  11  
13  Georgetown  14  
14  Loyola (Md.)  13  
15  Stanford  15  
16  Boston College  17  
17  Penn State  19  
18  Ohio State  16  
19  Hofstra  18  
20  Denver  NR  



around the dial 
NBA Basketball 
Celtics at Heat 
7:00 p.m., ESPN 
NHL Hockey 

Red Wings at Coyotes 
10:00 p.m., Versus 

NFL DRAFT 

Rams pick Bradford first in NFL draft 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK — Starting with quarterback Sam Bradford going to the St. Louis Rams, the first NFL draft in prime time was a showcase for the Big 12. The Oklahoma junior became the eighth quarter­back since 2001 taken atop the draft. He was immedi­ately followed Thursday night by defensive tackle Ndamukong Suh of Nebraska, the AP Player of the Year, and DT Gerald McCoy, Bradford’s team­mate with the Sooners. 
Bradford, the 2008 win­ner of the Heisman Trophy, joins a Rams team that was 1-15 last season and scored a league-low 175 points. The Rams cut incumbent Marc Bulger in the offseason. 
Bradford appeared in only three games in 2009, his junior year, before undergoing right shoulder surgery. His recovery has been so complete that the Rams didn’t hesitate to make him the future face of the franchise. 
An hour before the draft, Bradford, looking dapper in a gray suit, admitted he was nervous. 
“The butterflies are fly­ing around right now,” he said. 
A little while later, he could relax — at least until he gets on the field behind the Rams’ weak offensive line. 
“The phone call was that moment, but I had a feel­ing I would get that phone call tonight,” Bradford said of hearing from the Rams just before his name was announced. 
His selection opened the first NFL draft to begin in prime time, and was greet­ed with a mixture of cheers and jeers by the audience at Radio City Music Hall. 
Detroit then chose Suh, considered the best defen­sive tackle prospect in more than a decade. He won the Lombardi, Bednarik and Nagurski trophies in 2009 and comes off a dominant Big 12 title game in which he had 12 tackles with 4½ sacks. 
He was greeted by “SUH, SUH,” as he walked onto the stage holding a Lions jersey. 
McCoy should boost a Tampa defense that once was feared but flopped last season when it yielded 400 points. He displayed his Buccaneers jersey to the crowd and pumped his fist high in the air as “Pirates of the Caribbean” played on the loudspeakers. 
The Big 12 draft party kept rolling when Washington took Oklahoma All-America Trent Williams to fill a huge hole at tackle left by the retirement of Chris Samuels. Williams engulfed commissioner Roger Goodell in a hefty bear hug onstage. 
IN BRIEF 

Marquis Teague verbally commits to Kentucky 
INDIANAPOLIS — Kentucky coach John Calipari has landed another high-profile point guard to his collection. 
Indiana high school star Marquis Teague verbally committed to the Wildcats on Thursday, opting to join the Wildcats over Louisville and Indiana among schools. 
Teague is ranked the No. 2 play­er in the Class of 2011 by Rivals.com. He can’t sign a letter of intent until the fall at the earli­est, but if he signs with the Wildcats he will join a steadily growing list of elite point guards who have agreed to play for Calipari, a list that includes Derrick Rose and John Wall. 
The 6-foot-2 Teague averaged 
15.7 points and 4.6 assists for Pike High in Indianapolis, and his com­bination of size and athleticisim have made him a coveted recruit. 
Rockets’ Brooks named NBA’s most improved player 
HOUSTON — Aaron Brooks likes proving doubters wrong, and he did it this season, even though the Houston Rockets could not. 
The speedy, 6-foot point guard was named the NBA’s Most Improved Player on Thursday, after setting career highs in points (19.6 per game), assists (5.3) and rebounds (2.6). His scoring average went up 8.4 points from 2008-09, the highest increase of any qualifying player. 
The Rockets finished 42-40 and missed the playoffs, an expected out­come after Yao Ming missed the season with a foot injury. Brooks ably picked up the offensive slack in Yao’s absence, starting all 82 games while the roster seemed to be in flux all season. 
“I didn’t go into the season to win a big award like this,” Brooks said. “I would love to be in the playoffs with this award, but due to the circumstances, we didn’t get there. But this is a great award. 
NCAA to expand March Madness from 65 to 68 teams 
INDIANAPOLIS — The NCAA has decided not to mess around too much with March Madness. 
College sports’ largest governing body announced a 14-year, $10.8 billion deal with CBS and Turner Broadcasting on Thursday that will begin with an expanded men’s basketball tournament next March. But instead of jumping to a 96-team field, a possibility that drew criticism from bracket-obsessed fans to coaches, the NCAA plans to expand by only three teams, from 65 to 68. 
Every game will be broadcast live nationally for the first time in the tour­nament’s 73-year history. 
“It was a goal from the very, very beginning and I believe it’s what our membership wanted and it’s what our fans wanted across the country,” NCAA interim president Jim Isch said. “I think without question, it was one of the driv­ing factors in our position and why CBS and Turner make such great partners.” 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, April 23, 2010 
MLB 

Yankee triple play stirs controversy over rules 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. — Alex Rodriguez started an around­the-horn gem for the New York Yankees’ first triple play in 42 years. But it was his casual jog directly across the diamond that started all the trouble. 
On a day of history and histri­onics, Oakland pitcher Dallas Braden screamed at Rodriguez after accusing him of breaching one of baseball’s unwritten rules, setting off a shouting match Thursday in the Athletics’ 4-2 win over the Yankees. 
The problems began in the top of the sixth inning after a single by Rodriguez. Robinson Cano fouled off a pitch and Rodriguez, who in between second base and third, cut across the pitcher’s mound to return to first. 
After Cano grounded into an inning-ending double play, Braden and Rodriguez got into it. 
“The long and short of it is it’s pretty much baseball etiquette. He should probably take a note from his captain over there,” Braden said, referring to Yankees leader Derek Jeter, “because you don’t run across the pitcher’s mound in between an inning or during the game. I was just dumbfounded that he would let that slip his mind.” 
“I was just trying to convey to him that I was still out there, that ball’s in my hand and that’s my pitcher’s mound. If he wants to run across the pitcher’s mound. Tell him to go do laps in the bullpen,” he said. 
Braden yelled over his right shoulder as he stepped across the third-base line and Rodriguez hollered back. The two kept screaming at each other until A’s manager Bob Geren came out and walked Braden off the field. 
Braden threw his glove against a wall in the Oakland dugout and kicked a stack of cups. 
“He just told me to get off his mound,” Rodriguez said. “I was a little surprised. I’ve never quite heard that, especially from a guy that has a handful of wins in his career. I’ve never even heard of that in my career and I still don’t know. I thought it was pretty funny, actually.” 
The 26-year-old Braden (3-0), with a 17-21 lifetime record, was hardly laughing after helping end the Yankees’ six-game win­ning streak. 
“I’m not really a speck on that guy’s radar but he’ll know after today that it might not be a good idea to run across the mound when I’m out there,” Braden said. “It’s not like I throw 95 (mph) and I’m going to hurt him. He’ll know I was there, though.” 
Asked if Rodriguez said he was sorry, Braden said no. 
“The guy was tasting himself too long to apologize,” he said. “No, he didn’t apologize. And it’s a shame. I have a lot of respect for that guy, everything he’s done in the game. It’s just disappoint­ing when you see the other side of things.” 
This was not the first time someone said Rodriguez had broken an unwritten rule on the diamond. 
In 2007, he shouted at Toronto third baseman Howie Clark while rounding the bag on a popup. Clark backed away, and the ball dropped. The play start­ed a baseball debate about A­Rod’s actions. 
Moments after the temper tantrum with Braden, Rodriguez turned a triple play. 
The A’s quickly put runners on first and second in the bottom of the sixth and Kurt Suzuki — who earlier hit a three-run homer — sent a sharp grounder to Rodriguez at third base. 
Rodriguez stepped on the bag and threw to Cano at second. Cano’s relay to first baseman Nick Johnson barely beat Suzuki. 
The Yankees had gone 6,632 consecutive regular-season games without a triple play. Their last one came on June 3, 1968, with first baseman Mickey Mantle catching the final out on a ball hit by Minnesota’s John Roseboro. 
“The ball was hit to my right, I took a couple of steps, stepped on the bag and then threw a lit­tle Hail Mary at Robby,” Rodriguez said. “And Robby did a great job of turning it.” 
MLB 
Scientists investigate HGH 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Baseball com­missioner Bud Selig says his sci­ence adviser is examining the human growth hormone blood test available through the World Anti-Doping Agency but isn’t sure when the study will be completed. 
At his annual session Thursday with the Associated Press Sports Editors, Selig said UCLA professor Dr. Gary Green hasn’t made a determination. The U.S. Anti-Doping Agency insists the test is valid. 
“As soon as Dr. Green has fin­ished his study on things, believe me, I’m most anxious to move forward,” Selig said. “One can debate what HGH does or doesn’t do. It needs to be banned.” 
While HGH is banned by base­ball, the sport doesn’t test for it. 
Unionized major leaguers cur­rently have only urine testing. The players’ union has said it would consider a blood test if it is validated. 
Selig said that if baseball adopts the test, it would start using it for players with minor league contracts. He has repeat­edly spoken with club athletic trainers about how prevalent the use of HGH is in the majors. 
“The answer is we really don’t know,” Selig said. “Most think it’s relatively low, but they really don’t know.” 
Cincinnati pitcher Edinson Volquez was suspended 50 games this week for testing pos­itive for a banned fertility drug. It was the first suspension of a major leaguer under the drug program since Los Angeles Dodgers slugger Manny Ramirez was penalized last May. 
“The only thing that it proves is our program is working,” Selig said. “We do a lot of edu­cation. We’ll do more.” 
On another topic, Selig said that while attendance is down between 1 and 2 percent this season, advance ticket sales for the rest of season were up 7 percent as of April 15, according to Major League Baseball Advanced Media, which handles online sales. 
“We’ve had a little weather problem, a little here and there, but I feel pretty good about it,” he said. 
Selig has noticed the low crowds in Toronto, Citi Field and other places. 
“It doesn’t overly bother me,” he said. “Some clubs it depends on winning and losing. But it’s April, schools are still in, week­day games. When you are with­in 1 or 2 percent, it’s just not anything to get concerned about.” 
Selig also said he is against expanding the first round of the playoffs to seven games, a pro­posal the players’ association says it might make during bar­gaining for a labor contract that would start in December 2011. Expanding the playoffs was brought up by Selig’s new com­mittee examining on-field mat­ters. 


Friday, April 23, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
NFL DRAFT 

Minnesota trades first-round pick to Detroit 
Associated Press 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. — The Minnesota Vikings are willing to wait all offseason to hear if Brett Favre will return next season. So waiting an extra day to make their first pick in the 2010 NFL draft should be a snap. 
Four hours into the draft on Thursday night, the Vikings traded the 30th overall pick in the first round to division rival Detroit, meaning their first pick of this draft will not come until Friday night. 
The Vikings moved back four spots to the 34th overall selec­tion, the second pick in the second round, swapped fourth-rounders with the Lions to move from 128th overall to No. 100 and also picked up the Lions’ seventh rounder, No. 214. 
“To make a trade and improve your draft status in each round was a huge suc­cess for us,” Vikings vice pres­ident of player personnel Rick Spielman said. 
If the Vikings wanted to pick an heir apparent to Favre, they could have done it with the 30th pick because Notre Dame’s Jimmy Clausen was available and so was Colt McCoy from Texas. Minnesota chose to drop down instead, stockpiling picks and allowing the Lions to take California running back Jahvid Best. 
Clausen was not chosen in the first round and could be available Friday, but it appears unlikely that the Vikings will take him. Spielman said the team has four players targeted for that pick and could even trade down again if the right deal presents itself. 
“If there was a player at 30 that we were definitely sold on, that we said, ‘There’s no way we’re going to trade out of this pick to have that play­er,’ then we wouldn’t have done it,” Spielman said. “But I think with us having the options to look at tomorrow, we were able to potentially get a player we may have taken at 30 and help ourselves with our slots.” 


Southern Cal safety Taylor Mays and Texas linebacker Sergio Kindle are among the players the Vikings could con­sider Friday. But with no start­ing jobs open on a team that went to the NFC title game last season, the Vikings could afford to move down and pick up more selections and add the depth that they need at several positions. 
Among the priorities the team had going into the draft was to add depth in the sec­ondary, where cornerback Cedric Griffin is recovering from a torn ACL suffered in January and Antoine Winfield will turn 33 before the season starts. They signed Lito Sheppard on Wednesday to help there, but also could use upgrades at safety, depth at linebacker and on the defen­sive line. 
The Vikings also lost backup running back Chester Taylor to Chicago and versatile backup offensive lineman Artis Hicks to Washington in free agency. 
Then there is the quarter­back issue. 
Favre will turn 41 in October and took quite a beating from the Saints in the NFC champi­onship. But the team has said all along it will not rush Favre’s decision and would be comfortable letting him sit out the first few weeks of training camp like he did last year. 
Favre threw 33 touchdowns and seven interceptions in a memorable season, but the Vikings aren’t exactly set with a quarterback for the future. Tarvaris Jackson and Sage Rosenfels also are on the ros­ter, and coach Brad Childress has always preferred that Jackson one day take the reins of the offense. 
Jackson struggled early in his career to assert himself as a leader capable of handling this complex offense with con­sistency and Rosenfels quickly fell to No. 3 on the depth chart in the preseason. 
With all that uncertainty, there was plenty of specula­tion that the Vikings would take Florida’s Tim Tebow or Clausen with their first-round pick to develop, hopefully, behind Favre for a year or two until the old man is ready to walk away. 
But Tebow went 25th to Denver and the Vikings didn’t deem Clausen important enough to grab right away, so they traded down. They now have nine picks in the final six rounds, which gives them plenty of freedom to make moves over the next two days. 
“It just gives you a lot more flexibility as you finish out this draft of being able to move up or back, which is something that we really haven’t had since I’ve been here,” Spielman said. 


page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, April 23, 2010 
BASEBALL 

Irish welcome Bearcats for three-game series 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Sports Writer 
Back in the Big East conversa­tion after a three-game sweep of Seton Hall last weekend, the Irish are looking to continue their climb up the conference standings, hosting Cincinnati this weekend. 
Notre Dame (15-21, 5-7 Big East) finally put the pieces together in New Jersey, winning their first conference series in sweeping the Pirates and mov­ing up to seventh in the Big East. Despite losing two games to rival Michigan this week, the Irish are focused on conference competition heading into the three-game set. 
“We have been focusing on the conference race to be honest with you,” Irish coach Dave Schrage said following a 13-1 loss to the Wolverines on Wednesday. “Last weekend we were totally focused on getting back in the race.” 
The Bearcats (18-17, 4-8) should give Notre Dame another opportunity to climb back into the Big East race after a 2-7 start. Cincinnati comes to South Bend on a three-game losing streak, and is giving up over six runs per game on the season. 
The Bearcat rotation has struggled throughout the year, with all three main starters posting ERAs over 7.05. 
The Cincinnati offense has fared much better, with senior Mike Spina leading the way. Spina is batting .342 this year with 23 home runs and 69 RBIs. The Bearcats as a team have hit 72 homers, compared to just 22 for Notre Dame. 
One focus for the Irish staff will be finishing innings, as all 13 runs in Wednesday’s loss to Michigan came with two outs. The offense failed to plate a run until the ninth inning, and grounded into inning-ending double plays in the fourth, fifth and sixth innings. 
A significant streak was also broken in the loss, as senior outfielder Ryan Connolly went 0-for-3 on the night and snapped 47-game streak of reaching base. The run was the second-longest streak in the NCAA before Wednesday. 
Despite the losses to Michigan this week, the Irish are regroup­ing quickly and preparing for the Big East tournament. 
“That is all we have to play for right now,” Schrage said. “It definitely can happen.” 
First pitch today from Frank Eck Stadium will be at 6:05 p.m., with the final two games of the series at 6:05 p.m. Saturday and 1:05 p.m. Sunday. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 
Belles host MIAA tourney 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
Looking for yet another trip to the national champi­onships, No. 5 Saint Mary’s hosts the second and third rounds of the MIAA NCAA qualifying tournament this weekend in South Bend sit­ting in prime position to take the crown once again. 
The Belles trail No. 9 Olivet by just five strokes heading into this weekend and look to make up that ground and more based on their home-course advan­tage. 
“We play these courses all the time, and that helps,” Belles coach Mark Hamilton said. “We know the greens for the second-best individual score. Boyce and Brown also placed in the top ten individual golfers and will be looking to repeat that per­formance this weekend. 
The Belles will be using the momentum from their fourth ­place finish at 
the Illinois Wesleyan Spring Fling, but hope to improve 
on some aspects of their 
game before then. “We struck the ball well 
really well, and last time we beat the next closest team by 15 strokes, so we’re hoping to replicate that.” 
Saint Mary’s scor­ing five will consist of senior cap ­tain Perri Hamma, jun­
“We play these courses all the time and that helps.” 
Mark Hamilton Belles coach 
was the low Belle during the greens that are easy to first qualifying round, firing access but provide tough a 77 that was good enough putts if the approach is not 
[last week], but we struggled around the greens,” Hamilton said. “We ’ve been working hard 
on our short game and so hopefully that pays off.” 
Saturday’s round will be held at Blackthorn Golf Club in South 
iors Mary Kate Boyce and Bend, a challenging yet fair Rosie O’Connor and sopho-course that will test the mores Christine Brown and MIAA competitors. It is a Natalie Matuszak. Matuszak hilly layout, featuring big 
an accurate 
one. The fairways are 
“We’re been working wide, but an errant drive 
hard on our short 
could spell game and so trouble, so hopefully that pays accuracy will be para ­
off.” 
mount on Saturday. Mark Hamilton The final Belles coach round will be 
contested at 
Notre 
Dame’s Warren Golf Course just north of campus. Again, accuracy off the tee will be paramount, as the fairways are lined with trees. Putting will also be challenging, as the greens can be extremely challenging. 
The weather may play a large role in the results of the weekend, as thunder­storms are expected both days, as well as cool temper­atures on Sunday. The rain could lengthen the course and slow the greens, adding another challenge to the Belles’ task. The end goal, however, is simple. 
“We need to go out and protect our home turf,” Hamilton said. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


Friday, April 23, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Defending champs move up in tournament 
Alexander’s Grill edges by Hannah’s Storm; He Went to Jared defeats Bob Loblaw’s Law Blog Lobs Long Bombs 
Klupchak and Kevin Kelly, away at any point. Nearly the coaches, made it tough for Went to Jared. 
By CHRIS ALLEN and MEGAN 

drew many fouls early on in entire Notre Dame men’s bas-Andree to dominate in the The team ended with three 
FINNERAN 

the game and were able to get ketball team was on hand to post, though he was able to baskets in a row, hitting out-
Sports Writers 

into the foul bonus early on. cheer on former teammate step away and hit a number side shots and sealing the Free throws helped them senior Tim Andree and his fel-of midrange jumpers. game in only 30 minutes. 
The four sophomores and make up an 11 -6 halftime low players, seniors Joe “Those guys were bruisers “We didn’t hit the offensive one freshman who make up deficit and close the deficit to DeMott and Nick Fessler and down low, so we couldn’t real-boards hard enough and were Hallelujah Hollaback moved 14 -11. The foul situation juniors Dan Crisman and Sean ly get it going in the post,” lousy defending their transi­one step closer to a repeat of greatly influenced the way Reed. Crisman said. “Basically we tion game. They played real last year’s Bookstore champi-both teams played when The style of play and pace of rode Nick because he was on well even though we were just onship — albeit without three Delivery Boys had the ball. the game was dictated by with his jump shot.” a little overmatched today,” players from last year’s team “We had to shift because of Hannah’s Storm, made up of Late in the game, deep Loblaw’s senior Tim Lang 
— after grinding out a hard-all the early fouls that were coaches and faculty members jumpers from Anderson said. earned victory over Delivery called,” Van Harmelen said. Matt Tallman, Martin pulled Storm to within two He Went to Jared plays Boys. “Luckily they missed a couple Ingelsby, Kevin Anderson, baskets at 17-15. DeMott and Friday at 7 pm. 
Hollaback, made up of soph-of free throws so it didn’t Gerry Byrne and Robert Crisman took control with 
omores Andrew Gleason, matter that much.” Sedlack. What Storm lacked back-to-back floaters in the Book It and Lock It 21, Griffin Naylor, Tim Van Toward the end of the game, in youth and speed, it made lane to widen the gap, and a Steel City Ballers 14 Harmelen and Pat Kelly and Hollaback was able to ride the up for in a bruising half-court whirling layup from Reed The professional-style jer­freshman Nate Carr, started shooting of Gleason and Van style. Ingelsby, who was a ended the game. Crisman said seys for the Steel City Ballers to make a run after falling Harmelen to the victory, standout point guard for the the members of Grill learned may have looked intimidating, behind 5-4. The teams had a which was sealed by two late Irish from 1997-2001 and is a lot from their matchup but they did not stop Book It hard time coming by baskets contested layups from Naylor. an assistant coach under Mike against the veteran team and Lock It from pulling out a early in the game, as the The game lasted nearly an Brey, controlled the half court Hannah’s Storm. victory. defensive effort from both hour as both teams slowed offense from the point and “The thing about this game Book It and Lock It started teams made every basket a down in the intense heat, but made a number of highlight is we actually shot really well with a point on its first pos­contested effort. ultimately the shooting of reel layups. Alexander’s Grill whereas we didn’t shoot well session, and continued to sink 
“We had to really fight for Hallelujah Hollaback pre -struggled to adjust to the slow yesterday,” Crisman said. shots with seven points before baskets early,” Van Harmelen vailed. pace, but ultimately outside “For us, it’s good just to get the Steel City Ballers finally said. “Their point guard, Alex “I like this weather, and so shooting carried them. another game playing togeth-came through with a basket. Klupchak, won it all two years does this team,” Van “They slowed it down a lot, er and improve our teamwork Even with Notre Dame bas-ago. He’s a great player and Harmelen said. “This team is which is something they defi-as we move into the later ketball player senior they are a great team. We a bunch of shooters, so we nitely wanted,” Crisman said. rounds of the tournament.” Jonathan Peoples, the Ballers really had to work hard for days like this with no wind “Those guys may be older but struggled to knock down shots every basket for the whole and we got most of our points they really know what they’re He Went to Jared 21, Bob or come away with offensive game.” on jump shots.” doing. Coach Inglesby played Loblaw ’s Law Blog Lobs rebounds. They gave numer-
The Delivery Boys, made up here and he’s really great. Long Bombs 10 ous turnovers to Book It, of juniors David Rudy, Andrew Alexander ’s Grill 21, This game was a tough chal-It only took a few minutes which often converted to a Nelligan and Dennis Hannah’s Storm 17 lenge.” for He Went to Jared to take breakaway and point. Sobolewski and seniors Youth was served as the Early on in the contest, Grill over the game and pull ahead “We needed to get off to a 
top-seeded Alexander’s Grill was carried by the outside with a strong lead and an better start. They were a fun-took care of Hannah’s Storm, shooting of Fessler, who made eventual win. The team’s damentally sound team and a team made up of faculty a number of long jump shots, height advantage and compat-they played well,” Ballers sen-members, on the strength of especially on second-chance ibility aided to its success ior Sean Dillon said. 
outside shooting and opportunities off Andree against Bob Loblaw’s Law Once the Ballers got their rebounding. rebounds. The size and Blog Lobs Long Bombs From first basket, their game began Grill led for the entire con-strength of Anderson and 3, as did multiple breakaways to fall into place, hitting a test but was unable to pull Byrne, who are both lacrosse and converted layups. series of shots from far out. 
The game began with pos-However, Book It refused to session switching back and back down, moving quickly forth between the two teams and sinking deep jumpers to until He Went to Jared picked avoid the physical Ballers up the pace, ending the first defense. The first half ended half with six unanswered with a turnover and easy shot points. The combination of from under the basket by good defense and communica-Book It. tion kept Bob Loblaw’s out of Book It came out in the sec-shooting range and enabled ond half with just as much them to grab many of the fire as they left the first with, rebounds, which made for scoring on their first posses-quick movement down the sion after a missed shot by court. the Ballers. The energy 
The second half began with brought by Book It was con-a fiery start from Bob veyed during a full court Loblaw’s, when they scored press play to gain possession, 
on their first possession, and after that moment, the breaking through the defense Ballers struggled to return. and getting a shot under the “Pressure, pressure, pres-basket for one of the first sure,” Ballers sophomore EJ times all game. A bad pass by Jones said in the second half. He Went to Jared led to a This became the name of steal and breakaway by Bob the game for the Ballers, and Loblaw’s, giving them the pressure they did. While its momentum. physical presence was well 
But before they could get know, Book It never hesitated, too much of a gain, the men simply making shots from far-of He Went to Jared rallied ther out instead of venturing together and increased their into the heavily guarded pressure and rebounding. paint. After a missed dunk by law As the second half contin­student Chuck Flynn, the fate ued with heavy fouls, free of the game seemed unknown. throws became a key factor 
After a few possessions, He for Book IT, which made a Went to Jared finally scored, sequence of them to rack up but Bob Loblaw’s senior Tim easy points and end the game. Lang immediately answered “We played great defense the basket. Two baskets by and rebounded the ball well,” Flynn followed, first a tip Book It senior Mike Bramante from a rebound and then a said. “That’s how you have to lay up off a fast break, which win in Bookstore. We have a were again answered by big challenge next game; we Lang. But after that, He Went just have to keep doing more to Jared picked up the pace of the same.” further and crossed the court Book It and Lock It will con-quickly with crisp passes and tinue its journey Friday at 6 constant movement. A p.m. blocked shot against Bob Loblaw’s shot marked the Contact Chris Allen and Megan clearest switch of momentum, Finneran at callen10@nd.edu securing it in favor of He and mfnnera@nd.edu 



page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 23, 2010 
WOMEN’S ROWING 
Big East 
continued from page 24 

Irish go for seven in a 
We’re trying to get as many outdoor matches in while we can before NCAAs.” 
If Notre Dame pulls off the win over West Virginia, their next opponent would be either 4th seeded Syracuse (19-2) or 

row in Big East tourney 
the rise. Stone says that his team 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
5th seeded Marquette (13-13) 
cannot be worried about the 
Sports Writer 
in the semifinals on Saturday, 
other schools, however, and must 
with the winner playing in the The Notre Dame women’s row-instead focus on putting forth its finals on Sunday. 

ing team has quietly been build-best effort. The key to success on The Irish are looking to build ing a tradition of its own in the Sunday, he said, is simple. 
upon unprecedented success in Big East cham-“We’re plan-the conference tournament pionships for ning on having since they joined the Big East the past few our best races 

“We try to approach 
in 1995. In 15 seasons, the years. In each of of the year,” he 

each year as a new 
Irish have made the final the past six said. “We have years, the Irish year. We’re not trying to to row really 

have hoisted the defend anything.” hard and make 
Big East trophy our boats go and this week-really fast. I 
DePaul

Martin Stone 
end, they go for mean, it’s not their seventh in Irish coach rocket sci-
continued from page 24 
a row at the Big East champi­onship in Worcester, Mass. To coach Martin Stone, however, success in each individual year is more important than the year-to­year streak. 
“Is it our seventh? I don’t know. We don’t keep so much track of that,” Stone said. “We try to approach each year as a new year, we’re not trying to defend anything, we’re just trying to go as fast as we can in each event.” 
This year’s team has had its share of challenges, not least of which was a change in the team’s training philosophy. The squad’s regimen has traditionally been based on a philosophy of constant, full effort, but this year the coaches decided to switch to a heart-rate-based training pro­gram. Though it has not been easy, assistant coach Joe Schlosberg said he has been impressed by the team’s response. 
“It’s something we had to trust that the team would buy into, and we’ve had to show a lot of patience this year,” Stone said. “This has been a little different year, the coaches included. We kind of had to change our mind­set.” 
The coaching staff credits much of this team’s success to the culture created by the seniors on the squad, who have fostered a positive atmosphere despite the challenges posed by the change. The burden of leadership has fallen on the upperclassmen as a whole, as the team did not name captains this season in hopes of a team-wide effort. 
“I think our seniors have done a wonderful job,” Stone said. “I like the team dynamic, I like the culture of our team.” 
“I think the seniors really have set a great tone for the team,” Schlosberg said. “They’ve led by example and it’s really their lead­ership.” 
The Irish expect that their new training, based on the methods of international teams, will allow them to perform at their absolute best on Lake Quinsigamond on Sunday despite minor injury and crew composition issues. 
“I think they’re going to start to really see some speed come out of their hard work. Hopefully it pays off,” Schlosberg said. “I think we’ve gained some speed across the team since we last raced, and we’ll keep our fingers crossed that we can carry this out and carry that speed through this weekend and beyond.” 
Various schools are expected to challenge Notre Dame in the var­ious boat classes, most notably Connecticut and Louisville. The Cardinals will be hungry for a championship, having finished second to the Irish multiple times over the past six years, and the Huskies are part of a program on match 14 times, and won nine. this is one of the best Big East These titles include wins in the tournaments we’re going to first two seasons the Irish have because the teams are the 
played in the Big East. 
“I think it is especially
Historically, the Irish are 53-2 good for us, early in against the 
the tournament, to 
other 11 teams 
play a team with good
in the Big East tournament doubles.” field, including a perfect 4-0 
Jay Louderback 
this season. 
Irish coach
Regardless of this historically strongest over­all I can r e m e m b e r, ” Louderback said. 
The Irish title defense begins Friday at 9 a.m. against West Virginia, with the semifinal match to be played at noon 
dominant résumé, Louderback knows the Irish will need to be at their best against tough competition. 
“I think, for where we are right now, we really feel like 
ence.” Notre Dame 

year. Freshman Brittany looks to claim its seventh consec­
O’Donnell was credited with utive Big East title Sunday in 
the second loss after giving up Worcester, Mass. 
seven hits in two innings, 
moving her record to 7-3. 
On the offensive side of 
Contact Allan Joseph at 
things, the story of the day for 
ajoseph2@nd.edu 


the Irish was all the missed opportunities. The Irish put up a 2-0 lead in the first, but ended the inning with three runners left on base. 
They ended the second inning with the bases loaded as well, and with the game on the line in the eighth, the Irish batters were surrendered in order. Notre Dame only regis­tered four hits in the second Saturday and the finals to be played at 9 a.m. Sunday, all at the Courtney Tennis Center. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
game on their way to two runs. 
The Irish (35-9, 12-3) are looking to rebound with strong efforts on both sides of the ball as they prepare for a three game series against Big East for Villanova this Saturday. 
Contact Bobby Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 

Friday, April 23, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Team USA finished third over-
Worlds 64. 


continued from page 24 
Meanwhile, Hurley lost in the round of 32 to Sweden’s Emma Vaggo by a score of 15-12, but her performances in the team competition allowed her to a earn a silver medal with Team USA in the women’s epee com­petition. 
Almeida and Osier both com­peted in women’s sabre. Osier went 3-3 in pool play competi­tion, while Osier went 5-1 and lost in the elimination round of all in the World Championships, losing to Russia and Hungary. 
The youth represented in the tournament give the Irish a lot of hope that they’ll be able to improve upon last year’s disap­pointing third place finish in the NCAA Tournament. All four players provide a lot of promise and their experience at high-level tournaments such as these will only help the Notre Dame fencing team moving forward. 
Contact Luke Mansour at lmansour@nd.edu 
St. John’s 
continued from page 24 
their NCAA aspirations. The squad knows this and will not be caught looking ahead to the regu­lar-season finale next week against No. 1 Syracuse, according to Corrigan. 
“I think our team has a great sense of urgency,” he said. 
The Red Storm are led offen­sively by senior midfielder Tom Manes, who leads his team in points, as well as sophomore attack Harry Kutner, the leading scorer on the team. St. John’s does not run a particularly com­plicated scheme, and in Corrigan’s eyes, the game will come down not to tactics but to execution. 
“They’re a team that knows themselves very well and makes subtle adjustments to expose you,” Corrigan said. “It’s a differ­ent challenge than we had with Providence, but they are a very scrappy team tat works very hard and relies on their execution to be successful.” 
Notre Dame hopes that it has finally found its personality as a team and thus will be able to overcome the Red Storm and put themselves firmly on the NCAA bubble. 
“I think we’re playing with a better sense of tempo at the offensive end, more comfortably,” Corrigan said. “Defensively, we’re starting to get our aggressiveness back without overextending our­selves.” An Irish win would set up a monumental clash with con­ference leader Syracuse that could hold the key to a Notre Dame trip to the NCAA Championships, while a loss could spell the end of any postseason hopes in a season that held so much promise. 
The Irish put their season on the line against St. John’s at 1 
p.m. in Queens, N.Y., Saturday. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


page 22 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, April 23, 2010 
Friday, April 23, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 





JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Friday, April 23, 2010 page 24 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Home cooking 
ND hosts Big East, will face W. Virginia 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
The Big East championships will serve as another home match for the No. 5 Irish as they move to the Courtney Tennis Center to seek their third straight Big East title and their 10th overall. 
As the top seed in the tourna­ment, the Irish (19-3) will begin their title defense Friday morn­ing as they take on the eighth-seeded West Virginia squad. West Virginia (16-6) defeated Cincinnati (11-12) 4-2 in a play-in game Thursday, sweeping the doubles matches in the process. The Irish did not face the Mountaineers this season, but head coach Jay Louderback said he expects a tough match in the opening round. 
“West Virginia had a long close match today with Cincinnati,” Louderback said. “It was good because we hadn’t had a chance to watch them 
JAMES DOAN/The Observer 

play before. I was very Senior Kali Krisik, left, volleys the ball while playing doubles with sophomore Kristy Frilling in the impressed with their doubles. Irish’s 6-1 win over Marquette on April 18. Notre Dame opens the Big East championships today. They won the doubles match very quickly against Cincinnati. opening round match. The they would have to play three for us, early in the tournament, That was pretty impressive” group of seniors, headlined by matches in three days, some-to play a team with good dou-
First singles player and soph-Cosmina Ciobanu, who has not thing that the Irish have been bles,” Louderback said. “It’s omore Kristy Frilling will face lost a match in singles this sea-preparing for but something good for us to get a good test off against West Virginia’s son, will look to reach their that will still pose challenges, immediately at the beginning of Stephanie LaFortune, who will fourth conference title game in especially to the Irish doubles the tournament in the doubles. look to bounce back after suf-as many years and win their teams. fering a 6-0, 6-0 loss in the third title. In order to do so, “I think it’s especially good see BIG EAST/page 20 

FENCING 
Four players lead Irish at Worlds 
By LUKE MANSOUR 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame once again had the chance to show off its world-class talent last week at the 2010 Junior World Championships. Notre Dame was well-represented, sending four fencers: sophomores Gerek Meinhardt, Courtney Hurley and Beatriz Almeida, and fresh­man Lian Osier. Meinhardt and Hurley turned in impressive performances as both medaled at the championships. 
Meinhardt recorded a silver medal in the men’s foil competi­tion, and was also an integral part to the United States claim­ing first in the team tourna­ment. Meinhardt was tested in both the fourth round in the quarterfinal round. To claim his spot in the quarterfinals, Meinhardt edged Russia’s Roman Kuts 15-13, then nar­rowly defeated Italy’s Edwardo Luperi 15-12 to reach the semi­final round. 
Despite taking a 9-6 lead in the semifinal round, Meinhardt was ultimately defeated by a score of 15-12. 
Team USA allowed Meinhardt to gain his revenge as he helped them defeated Italy in the team competition by a score of 45-35. 
see WORLDS/page 21 


MEN’S LACROSSE 

Teamfacesmust-wininQueens 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
The Irish have not performed as well as they would have liked thus far, but with two must-win conference games looming, coach Kevin Corrigan believes his team is peaking at the right time. 
“We’ve been working hard and our guys have been practicing for the better part of the last three weeks,” Corrigan said. “I’m con­vinced that it’s going to start translating more and more into the games.” 
The Irish (6-5, 1-3 Big East) have little time left to make the transition from practice to game play, however, and thus their trip to Queens, N.Y., this week to face conference foe St. John’s (5-6, 2­
2) will be an important one for 
see ST. JOHN’S/page 21 


VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer Freshman attacker Ryan Foley, right, runs around defenders in Notre Dame’s 11-3 win over Providence on April 17. 
ND SOFTBALL 
Notre Dame drops two in Chicago games 
By BOBBY GRAHAM 
Sports Writer 
The Irish could not keep up with DePaul during Thursday’s trip to the Windy City in which Notre Dame dropped both ends of a dou­bleheader against the Blue Demons. 
The team came in with high hopes after a quality win against Valparaiso, 7-6, but left the series empty handed after dropping the two games 7-6 and 15-2. The losses were the Irish’s second and third in Big East play, coming only two days after their first conference loss of the season against Lousiville on April 17. 
Notre Dame’s pitching staff, which is normally one of the stronger parts of the squad, just could not find a break on Thursday. In the first game of the series, DePaul registered 14 hits on its way to seven runs. 
The second game was even tougher; the Irish gave up 16 hits as the Blue Demons put up an impressive 15 runs. Nine of the runs were regis­tered in the second inning and the remaining six were tacked on in the third. 
Junior Jody Valdivia, who has pitched well for the Irish this season, lost her first Big East game in the first matchup of the day moving her record to 27-4 on the 
see DEPAUL/page 20 






