the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


VeraBradley co-founder visits SMC 
By THERESA BAJOREK 
News Writer 
Patricia Miller, co-founder of the international company Vera Bradley, shared the secrets behind how her Indiana business dream evolved into the successful interna­tional com­pany it is today, as she spoke to a group of students at the 

Miller
Van der Vennet Theater at Saint Mary’s Tuesday. 
Miller said the story of the Vera Bradley Company began in February 1982 when she and her business partner, Barbara Bradley Baekgaard, while sitting in an Atlanta air­port, noticed that women’s luggage was tragically lacking in style. 
Taking a step back, as a col­lege student, Miller said she lived in a world where women went to school to be either teachers or nurses. 
“I just didn’t think outside 
see VERA/page 6 



ND unites over Sudan conflict 

JAMES DOAN/The Observer Bishop Daniel Adwok Kur, right, speaks about the confict between Northern and Southern Sudan during a lecture titled “Sudan: Peace in the Balance” on Oct. 5. In response, student government is organizing a photograph Saturday to show solidarity for peace. 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 

Notre Dame students will raise their hands in peace signs Saturday to capture a photo­graph that will show solidarity with efforts to avoid civil war between Northern and Southern Sudan. 
As part of the University’s work to spotlight the growing conflict, Catholic Relief Services (CRS) will circulate this image, junior stu­dent government social concerns chair Patrick McCormick said. 
“We face a situation where the United States has a chance to prevent another conflict in Africa before it happens,” McCormick said. “We want to signal as stu­dent government that the Notre Dame student body is ready to call for change.” 
The northern and southern parts of Sudan have been in con­flict for more than 50 years. The Comprehensive Peace Agreement (CPA) formally ended civil war in 2005 and scheduled a referendum for Jan. 9, 2011. 
Sudanese people will then vote on secession for Southern Sudan, McCormick said. 
The peace agreement estab­lished a six-year period for dem­ocratic reforms and national elections. As the referendum approached, tensions rose between the two sides. Both stockpiled weapons in prepara-

TECHNOLOGY:  BOON OR 
HARINDRA GREGORY P. FERNANDO CRAWFORD 


BANE? 

PETER WOLFGANG KILPATRICK POROD 



Professors explore technology’simpact 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame professors of science and engineering attempted to determine what role the ever-expand­ing field of technology will play in the advancement of the common good at Tuesday ’s Notre Dame Forum event at Washington Hall. 
The panel discussion, titled “Technology: Boon or Bane?” asked four Notre Dame professors to look at the opinions expressed in Pope Benedict XVI’s encycli­cal “Caritas in Veritate” and Thomas Friedman’s book, “The World is Hot, Flat and Crowded,” on how modern technology can be utilized for the purpose of the devel­opment. 
“The Pope and Friedman are very similar in their views but they have very different paths for moving forward,” said Robert Alworth, associate dean of Innovation and Entrepreneurship for the colleges of science and engi­neering, as well as the mod­erator for the panel, in his opening remarks. “Tonight we will look at the techno­logical challenges posed by tion for what needed to be a peaceful voting process, McCormick said. 

Notre Dame got involved when CRS president Ken Hackett spoke at the Center for Social Concern on this year’s theme “Charity in Truth.” Hackett said acting for peace in Sudan is a way to prac­tice this theme on an internation­al level. 
“The thought that comes to my 
see SUDAN/page 7 


Priest’s life recalled 30 years later 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 

Thirty years have passed since the sudden death of Fr. Bill Toohey, the first director of Campus Ministry at Notre Dame, and friends and former colleagues said during his time at the University, he played a dynamic role in the spiritual life of the student body. 
“His preaching was powerful and charismatic,” former Walsh Hall rector, Jane Pitz, said. “He used language that 

see TOOHEY/page 7
COLEMAN COLLINS | Oserver Graphic New York Times columnist see IMPACT/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Summit address off-campus safety page 4  Now and then: Fall Break page 10  Kyle Rudolph out for season page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Wednesday, October 13, 2010 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT  S THE WORST TH NG YOU D D WHEN YOU WERE A K D?
THE OBSERVER 









P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 

Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 

SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 

and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Chris Masoud Alicia Smith Allan Joseph Melissa Flanagan Corey Bernard 
Graphics Michael Todisco Sofia Iturbe Scene Photo Courtney Cox Coleman Collins Viewpoint Patricia Fernandez 


OFFBEAT 

Band arrested for blocking freeway to perform 
LOS ANGELES — A rock band will have to face the music after blocking a Los Angeles freeway and per­forming atop its trailer. California Highway Patrol spokesman Rick Quintero said a big box van decorated with Imperial Stars' logo stopped on the southbound 
U.S. 101 near Sunset Boulevard at about 10:30 
a.m. Tuesday, blocking four of the five lanes. 
The driver took the keys and fled in another car, then three musicians climbed on top of the van and began to perform. 
Quintero said they were arrested and the truck was finally towed away around 
Jeannie O’Neill  John Stabile  Joseph Caparros  Laura Taylor  Matt Madonia  Rachel Hamilton  
senior  freshman  sophomore  junior  junior  junior  
off campus  Keenan  Stanford  Cavanaugh  Dillon  Lewis  

“I stole a  “I stole gloves  “I painted on  “I don’t know  “I don’t have an  “Tried to take  
sunflower off of  from the  my face during  what you’re  answer, I don’t  the class pet  
a hat and my  dentists’ office  art class.”  talking about ...  do anything  butterflies and  
mom made me  and I was  I was an  wrong.”  run away in  
return it.”  caught ... and it  angel.”  kindergarten.”  
was really  

embarrassing.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

noon after causing a mile-long traffic jam. 
Quintero said the musi­cians could face charges of obstructing traffic. 
Man finds wedding ring in grandmother's garden 
SHELBY — A Montana woman received a big sur­prise for her 80th birthday — the wedding ring she lost eight years ago. Norma Welker of Shelby told the Great Falls Tribune she took the ring off while she was arranging flowers cut from her garden. 
A phone call distracted her while she cleaned up and she didn't realize the ring was missing until after her trash had been hauled away. She searched the compost pile with no luck and figured the ring was gone forever. 
This spring, she decided her garden was too difficult to keep up and asked her grandson to till it so she could plant grass. 
Nick Welker was tilling the area when he spotted what he thought was a pop top. He bent down to pick it up and found what looked like his grandmother's lost wedding ring. 
His grandfather is deceased, and he showed the ring to his parents, who con­firmed his suspicion. Together they decided to sur­prise Norma Welker with the cleaned up ring for her 80th birthday. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 

The exhibit "Parallel Currents: Highlights of the Ricardo Pau-Llosa Collection of Latin American Art" will be shown today from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the Snite Museum of Art. It will fea­ture Contemporary Latin American artworks from the collection of Ricardo Pau -Llosa, Cuban-American poet, critic, curator, professor and collector. 
Selections from the William McGraw Photography Collection will be shown today from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the Snite Museum of Art. The photographic styles range from straight documen­tation to surrealism. It will be in O’Shaughnessy Galleries II and III. 
Junior Group will meet tonight in the Saint Mary’s Welcome Center at 6 p.m. This group meets once a month to discuss issues that are relevant and timely while receiving support from their peers. 
Senior Group will meet tonight in the Saint Mary’s Welcome Center at 6 p.m. Once a month, seniors get together to support one another on career-related issues including job search­ing, applying and getting ready for graduate/profes­sional school, after-gradua­tion plans, and related topics. 
Saint Mary’s Straight and Gay Alliance will be hosting a “Coming Out Day Panel” at 7 
p.m. in Vandervennet Theater tonight. It is open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday GaME DAY Sunday 



CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 

66 61 HIGH 6562 6162
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

44 44 LOW 4337 4343 






Wednesday, October 13, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 3 page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 13, 2010 






Summit addresses off campus safety 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
Members of the South Bend community gathered with leaders from the University, student gov­ernment, the Prosecutor’s Office and law enforcement at the Robinson Community Learning Center. Tuesday for the second annual Northeast Neighborhood Safety Summit. 
After a brief introduction by Tim Sexton, associate vice president for Public Affairs at the University, stu­dent body president Catherine Soler spoke about what student government has been doing to deal with off-campus issues and how students have responded. 
“Our focus ... has been off-cam­pus safety and community rela­tions,” Soler said. 
Soler said they have a good neighbor guide, have been meet­ing with campus and South Bend police and have a website, offcam­pus@nd.edu 
Also citing the forum with ResLife and the presentation by attorney C.L. Lindsay, Soler said things have improved with regards to students and off-campus prob­lems since the implementation of the recent programming. 
“In our updates with police ... we’ve been getting good reports about students being good neigh­bors,” she said. 
Offering advice on how students and South Bend residents alike can improve their personal securi­ty, Notre Dame Security Police Officer Keri Kei Shibata was next to speak. Shibata said a lot of things people can do seem like common sense but are often looked over. 

“Be aware of crime problems and other neighborhood concerns [and] communicate concerns to police,” she said. 
Shibata said residents should avoid giving potential criminals access to unsecured entrances to homes or clear views of expensive items in cars. 
“Make your property a harder target,” she said. 
Shibata also reminded residents to be cautious of people they do not know, to be proactive about possible threats, become acquaint­ed and work with neighbors and taking greater ownership and involvement in the community. 
“Claim the neighborhood as your own. It’s ours, not the criminals’ ,” she said. 
Next, Sgt. Pat Hechlinski spoke about what police are offering citi­zens both in traditional law enforcement as well as spreading information and taking advantage of both civilian and interdepart­mental cooperative efforts. 
“One thing we like to do is make you aware of the crime statistics so the residents can see what’s going on,” he said. 
Hechlinski said efforts to keep residents informed are aided by both the neighborhood watch pro­gram and the distribution of infor­mation regarding incidents with students as victims by student gov­ernment. 
He said it was important that all groups involved in the issue con­tinue to collaborate. 
“Keeping an open dialogue is a great problem-solver for us,” he said. 
While the previous speakers concentrated on how crime can be prevented, County Prosecutor Michael Dvorak next spoke about what his office has been doing to deal with offenders once preven­tion has failed and where students can reduce problems with police. 
“[Police and prosecutor work] is all pretty reactive, the damage has been done,” he said. “We try to hold people accountable.” 
After an update on the case of the carjacking of Holy Cross stu­dents, Dvorak spoke about the crackdown on underage drinking at the beginning of the year. 
“This has been a very significant issues,” he said. “It has less to do with people under 21 consuming alcoholic beverages than it does about safety.” 
Dvorak said while he under­stands the relatively minor nature of alcohol offenses, he feels that students need to recognize that the consequences are still serious. 
“I’m not unsympathetic,” he said. “It’s a crime, and I don’t think students understand it’s not just an infraction.” 
Dvorak said he believed student cooperation has helped cause a shift back from arrests to ticketing and reminded students to cooper­ate with law enforcement during an incident. 
“I think they’ve dialed down on underage drinking,” he said. “It’s still a crime, and they’ll use their discretion.” 

Contact John Cameron at jcamero2 @nd.edu 


Club presents film on war in Uganda 
By MIRANDA PERETTI 
News Writer 

Saint Mary’s Invisible Children club, which helps raise aware­ness of child soldiers in war-torn Uganda, hosted members on tour from the national Invisible Children organization in Carroll Auditorium Tuesday. 
The event featured a screening of an update on the organization’s progress called “Go.” presented by two men directly involved with Invisible Children in Uganda. 
“Invisible Children uses film, creativity and social action to end the use of child soldiers in Joseph Kony’s rebel war,” Kristen Metzger, senior, president and founder of the club, said. “We are young activists working to restore Northern Uganda to peace and prosperity.” 
Through Invisible Children’s “Schools for Schools” program, students have raised $1.2 million towards the reconstruction of educational facilities destroyed by rebel militia, according to nation­al member Terra Amelang. 
“It takes sacrifice to give what nobody can steal,” native Ugandan and Invisible Children mentor Richard Mark Ochaka said. 
The organization believes in providing education to kids of northern Uganda who have lost hope in their own futures. Amelang said the three things we can do to help are to buy their merchandise, participate in the “Schools for Schools” program and commit to the Legacy schol­arship fund which involves donat­ing $35 a month to cover all school expenses for one child. 
Kids featured in the screening of “Go” had won the opportunity to go to Uganda and witness first hand what goes on in the lives of the people who live there. 
“We were taken into captivity for two weeks before we were rescued by the American govern­ment,” Ugandan citizen and for­mer war captive, Jimmy Ocaya said. “I was tied with a rope to two other boys.” 
Ocaya’s mentor, Richard, helped him to find hope again and graduate high school. As Amelang explained in her lecture, this is a touching story that is sadly not the future for 93 per­cent of the youth in Uganda. 
Metzger said anyone in the tri­campus community are welcome. She also plans on opening events up to the entire South Bend com­munity. 
“The people of Uganda are ask­ing for a future beyond the con­flict, and their pleas have inspired this organization,” Metzger said. “Our main goal is enable children to take responsibility for their destiny and the fate of their coun­try.” 

Contact Miranda Peretti at mperetti@nd.edu 


Wednesday, October 13, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 


Prof. discusses post-grad economy 


longer.” 

Wozniak found that the scarring effect was wide­spread, and moved across dif­ferent demographic groups. She concluded it impacts col­lege graduates, high school graduates, college dropouts or those with two-year degrees, as well as high school dropouts. 
The scarring effect is worse for college graduates than it is for high school graduates, Wozniak, said, “probably because they transition from jobs in more of a progres­sion.” 
Job change is a major way in which one can overcome the scarring effect, Wozniak said. It is easier for those without a college degree to switch jobs and quickly over­come this negative impact, because they are not as reluc­tant to start over in a new job. 
College graduates assume they will enter a career and then build that career over the years. Therefore, these workers are likely to stay on a certain job trajectory, making it difficult to overcome the dis­advantage they started with. 
In addition, it is costly for these workers to adjust to their situation by going back to school, getting a higher degree or switching jobs, Wozniak said. 
“I think it’s important for workers who started in a downturn to continually look for ways to catch up, especial­ly after the economy improves,” she said. “Think more about changing jobs, moving to a new location, or asking for a raise or promo­tion.” 
Wozniak said it is unclear whether getting a graduate degree and hoping to enter the job market during better economic times will be benefi­cial to students. 
“Markets may improve dra­matically in a few years, but they may not,” she said. “Even if they do, students who seek to avoid market conditions by staying in school longer will miss out on several years of earnings and advancement, and they will face stiffer com­petition for graduate school slots and post-graduate school jobs.” 
She said that sometimes, those entering the job force compare their salaries to a sibling’s who started a job a few years earlier. She said to remember not to take salary levels personally. 
“There’s a perception in the 
U.S. that what you earn exact­ly [corresponds] to how good you are,” she said. “Students and others as well should rec­ognize that earnings are not driven entirely by individual productivity or ability. A very large component is luck. It would be wrong to believe you are earning say 10 percent less than a friend or colleague did when she started just because you are not as quali­fied.” 
Wozniak also said that firms are not adjusting perfectly to economic changes. 
“Companies try really hard to keep pay scales secret from workers,” Wozniak said. “It does happen within companies that people who enter [the company] at different times have similar jobs but are earning different things.” 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 

By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 

Research by Abigail Wozniak, Notre Dame assis­tant professor of economics, determined those who enter the work force during a bad economy will receive lower wages than those who enter during an economic boom, and this negative impact can last up to 10 years. 
“The scarring effect is the idea that the conditions you have when you start working will affect your future [occu­pational achievement],” she said. 
In her research, which will be published in the Journal of Human Resources this fall, Wozniak looked at almost 30 years of data of people enter­ing the labor market. She used census data from 1980, 1990, and 2000, looking at workers five to eight years after they entered the labor force. 
Wozniak said there is a cor­relation between the state of the economy and job wages. She said higher wages of those who enter the job world during an economic boom stick with them, and lower wages of those who begin their job during a downturn stick with them as well. 
“My estimates suggest that workers lose six percent of wages for every two additional percentage points of unem­ployment above the average,” she said. “We’re currently about four percentage points above average, so wages for this year’s graduates will be roughly 12 percent below that of similar graduates from four years ago.” 
Wozniak said this discrepan­cy in earnings takes time to overcome. 
“The scarring effect takes about five to 10 years to over­come, but with this economic situation, it could take a bit longer,” Wozniak said. “In fact, I think it will take 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 13, 2010 
Joe Fernando, professor of engineering and geosciences, 


Impact 

focused his talk on 
continued from page 1 
both Benedict and Friedman.” 
The opinions of the two men were selected as the focus of discussion because of their relation to this year’s Forum. Pope Benedict XVI’s encyclical is the basis for the Forum’s theme of “The Global Marketplace and the Common Good,” and Friedman will be the speaker at the Forum’s signature event next month. 
Peter Kilpatrick, McCloskey Dean of the College of Engineering, said Friedman dedicated a great deal of time in his book to the reality of global warming and his belief in the cause of climate change on the globe. 
“Friedman said that climate change is human-induced,” Kilpatrick said. “But he accepts Friedman’s idea of a culture of irresponsibility and how Benedict’s views expressed in “Caritas” can be applied to this scheme. 

“Everything is interrelated to global warming which becomes one of the biggest social issues in the world today,” Fernando said. 
Fernando said in an effort to make people take notice, many scientists did not always give the most valid information in regards to global warming, which added to the culture of irresponsi­bility Friedman put forward in his book. 
“If you don’t give at least some indication about the dangers of global warming, than no one will pay atten­tion,” Fernando said. “But 
one of the cur ­rent problems is 

the premise “Friedman insists in that we need to that not all peo-the book that price, be more honest.” 
ple will accept Fernando said 
tax and profts are
this view. a push for hon ­However, he the only way to get esty in society is says that he one of the run ­
the economy moving
hopes all agree ning themes of 
again.” 
with him when “Caritas in 
he says the Veritate.” world can’t Peter Kilpatrick “If we are to maintain our consider every -
McCloskey Dean 
current energy body to be creat-
College of Engineering
consumption ed under God, 
rates forever.” 
Kilp atrick said Friedman also focused 
on the methods he thinks need to be employed to stabi­lize the global economy. 
“Friedman insists in the book that price, tax and prof­its are the only way to get the economy moving again,” Kilpatrick said. “This differs from Benedict’s belief that not all corporate leaders are motivated by the bottom line 
— Benedict believes some have to be motivated by love, justice and compassion.” 
Kilpatrick pointed out the irony between balancing the two economic beliefs of the two men would lead to an economic model that is bene­ficial to sustainability. 
“Corporate social responsi­bility will lead to a greater profit and products such as solar-powered cars that are in demand and sell,” he said. “We just need to build corpo­rate social responsibility into the economic model.” 
Wolfgang Porod, professor of electrical engineering and director of the Center for Nano Science and Technology, focused his discussion on the idea presented in “Caritas” about the role of faith in technology and the future of human development. 
“The Pope certainly endors­es technology in the encycli­cal,” Porod said. “But we have to make decisions in a responsible way, even if we are fascinated by the technol­ogy.” 
Porod addressed Benedict’s belief that the modern fasci­nation with technology may prevent people from turning toward the spiritual world. 
“Technology seduces us, but we can choose to use it for good or evil,” Porod said. “It’s not technology itself that is bad, it is how we choose to use it.” 
Porod said these choices would be the basis for the future of sustainable growth in relation to technological advances. 
“We need to make responsi­ble decisions, but we also need to remember how to trust others to make respon­sible decisions,” he said. 

that means we 
must honor their rights, which implies the common good,” he said. “If the Church can keep pushing for this truth … our work will depend on what Benedict calls the ‘culture of life, ’ which will lead to integral human development.” 
Gregory Crawford, Dean of the College of Science, dis­cussed the notion of intellec­tual property and patents and how it applies to both tech­nology and to human develop­ment in line with the ideals laid out in “Caritas.” 
“Most companies today have all their worth tied up in the non-tangible aspects, in their patented ideas,” Crawford said. “Patents drive the economy and entrepre­neurship but is there such a thing as a good thing in this instance?” 
Crawford said in the tech­nological world, a patent allows businesses to have a certain type of monopoly to market their technology and profit. He said the challenge would be how to use techno­logical intellectual properties and find a way to use them to further global development on a much more basic scale. 
“How do we balance mone­tary incentive of patents with the common good?” Crawford asked. “Do we have the right to impose restrictions on intellectual properties that could provide answers to world’s problems concerning basic questions of providing food, water and shelter?” 
Crawford said he believed modern science and technolo­gy was doing a better job at looking at the “bigger pic­ture” when balancing modern technological and scientific developments with ethics. 
“Before we didn’t think through all the issues and consequences,” he said. “But now we actually talk about good and bad aspects of our technologies. We ask ques­tions we never would have before … we’re moving paral­lel and thinking about the ethics.” 

Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 


Wednesday, October 13, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 7 

Vera 
continued from page 1 
the box,” she said, thinking back to her first aspiration to be a business teacher. As a successful business­woman today, the sky is the 
limit for Miller industry. 
“I don’t put a ceiling on anything, ” she said. 
Miller also further dis­cussed key entrepreneur­ial words to live by that she said drove the 
Vera Bradley business to its success. 
Primarily, Miller said to “listen to your instincts” the way she and Baekgaard had that cold February day at 
the airport, and to “be engagi ng, interested and passionate” in business, and with any dream or ambition in life for that matter. 
“Change is constant, and you should embrace it,” Miller said. “If you don’t keep pace 
and her 

According to Miller, new this season there will be trendy laptop backpacks available 
The Vera Bradley line has also expanded to include lunch boxes, totes, cosmet­ics bags, jewelry boxes and stationary. 
In 1998, Vera Bradley joined the fight for a cure 
“I just didn’t think outside the box.” 
Patricia Miller co-founder Vera Bradley 
facility at University 
Cancer Center — nationally recognized as a leader in research to find a cure, and has notably risen over $10 
“Change is constant, and you should embrace it. If you don’t keep pace with change, you will be left in the dust.” 
Patricia Miller co-founder Vera Bradley 
with change, you will be left in the dust.” 
Vera Bradley started with a focus on luggage, sports bags and the smaller hand­bag, Miller said. However, women today also find fre­quent use from Vera Bradley laptop bags, cases and slips. 
for breast cancer by establishing the Vera Bradley Foundation for Breast Cancer (VBFBC). 
The founda­tion currently funds a research the Indiana Bren Simon 
million for the cause, Miller said. 
According to Miller, the VBFBC hopes to bring the results of groundbreak­ing scientific research directly to the bedside, help­ing develop new treat­ments for cancer patients, and 

to discover quicker, more effective ways of spotting breast cancer on a molecu­lar level. 
“I have all the faith in the world,” Miller said. 

Contact Theresa Bajorek at tbajor01@saintmarys.edu 
Sudan 
continued from page 1 

mind is this vision that Father Hesburgh had of Notre Dame as a lighthouse and a crossroads,” McCormick said. “With the arrival of the Sudanese delegation, we had the opportunity to sit at that crossroads. We now have the opportunity to serve as a light­house and be a beacon for secur­ing justice in Sudan.” 
The pivotal moment for Notre Dame was the arrival of a delega­tion from the Sudan Conference of Catholic Bishops, McCormick said. 
Bishop Paride Taban, Bishop Daniel Adwok Marko Kur and director of the Denis Hurley Peace Institute John Ashworth spoke at the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies on Oct. 5 on the upcoming referen­dum in Sudan. 
The delegation traveled from Notre Dame’s campus to Washington and New York City for meetings with government officials and with the United Nations. 
“Part of their motivation to come here was to visit the Kroc Institute, one of the leading cen­ters for peace-building in the world,” McCormick said. “But the delegation was also interested in reaching out to the Catholic com­munity in the United States and did that in a symbolic way at Notre Dame.” 
McCormick presented a resolu­tion to student senate last week to show Notre Dame support for the full implementation of the CPA. The senators passed the resolu­tion unanimously. 
The resolution was presented to the delegation of bishops as a sign that students were in solidarity with their efforts to secure sus­tainable peace in Sudan. 
“There is a precedent for stu­dent involvement in international issues,” McCormick said. “It is as simple as raising a voice. This is a classic example of how change can come from the bottom up.” 
Students successfully lobbied the United States government to use the term “genocide” for the first time in American history when describing human rights violations in Darfur, McCormick said. 
“Students lend a particularly morally sensitive voice to interna­tional issues because that voice is not bogged down in the intrica­cies of policy and government. I think the need to act goes back to who we are as the leading Catholic university in the United States,” McCormick said. “Student government cannot just issue its opinion on any issue that comes before the public on a national or international scale. This is about the responsibility to use the moral voice of this university because this conflict can directly impact the lives of students.” 
The resolution said the student body would work to raise aware­ness about the peace agreement and possible conflict in Sudan. 
“Now we must ask ourselves to define how inclusive the Notre Dame family is and how far the Dome on which Mary stands can reach,” McCormick said. 
Kroc Institute for International Studies specialist Gerard Powers said students need to learn about the looming crisis as the referen­dum in January approaches. 
“There is a great opportunity for Notre Dame to be in a leader­ship role in working with other universities to develop a coalition around Sudan,” Powers said. 
Outside of the actions by the international community and major players within Sudan, Powers said publicly showing support for the Sudanese people is critical. 
“Because of Internet and news, people in Sudan, even as poor and isolated as that country is, know when people in this country and people in the world are work­ing on their behalf,” Powers said. “Showing our solidarity with them is important so they know that the world is paying atten­tion.” 
Any student wishing to partici­pate in the photo opportunity for CRS can meet at 10:45 a.m. Saturday in front of Rolf’s Sports Recreation Center. 
“We want to lend the student voice to a national conversation that has not taken place on the scale that it should,” McCormick said. “We promise ‘never again’ after violent conflicts like the genocide in Darfur, and Notre Dame students want to make ‘never again’ more than just words for Sudan.” 
Contact Megan Doyle  at mdoyle11@nd.edu 


Fr. Bill Toohey, second from right in frst row, celebrates Mass as the frst director of Campus Ministry at the University during the 1970s. Toohey died suddenly of encephalitis 30 years ago today. 

Toohey 
continued from page 1 

students could understand and were drawn to.” 
Toohey, who died of encephalitis in 1980 at the age of 50, wanted to bring students to a larger consideration of what was at stake in their development as a people of God, she said. 
“He taught me to respect each person and see in them the life of God,” Pitz said. “He showed that we should love unconditionally all those we meet.” 
Pitz said during his time as director of Campus Ministry, Toohey was the celebrant at the 
12:15 p.m. Mass every Sunday in Sacred Heart Basilica. 
“The place would be packed,” she said. “I think everybody saw him as a man of prayer who had a deep commitment to preaching the Gospel.” 
Fr. Tom McNally, graduate of the class of 1949, said he first met Toohey in the Holy Cross novitiate in Jordan, Minn., in 1955. 
“We were very good friends from the novitiate days until his death,” McNally said. “In fact, he was my best friend.” 
When Toohey became the head of Campus Ministry, he invited McNally to join him as an associate. 
“Those days on Campus Ministry were wonderful days for all of us,” he said. “There was lots of creativity, occasional run-ins with the higher-ups and a great emphasis on social jus­tice concerns. Bill was our leader in every way.” 
McNally also introduced Br. Joe McTaggart to Toohey. 
“Bill was a gentle soul who wrote with a powerful pen and preached with a magnificent effectiveness,” McTaggart said. “He drew many to a deeper understanding of the Gospel and society. 
He said Toohey’s life and wit­ness taught him to stand up for what he deeply believed and experienced in the spiritual life. 
“Bill was humble and unas­suming,” McTaggart said. “That is what I saw and experienced in him as he led our staff for 10 of the most growth-filled years of my own life.” 
John Fitzgerald, a 1965 alum­nus, worked with Toohey as a member of the Campus Ministry staff. Toohey also taught Fitzgerald preaching for three years in the graduate seminary. 
“Along the way he also became my spiritual director and mentor,” he said. “A whole generation of Holy Cross priests learned from Bill that we had no business stepping into the pulpit unless we were passion­ate and on fire about communi­cating the Gospel.” 
Fitzgerald said Toohey always preached with passion and fire. 
“When he stepped into a pul­pit, he became a living sacra­ment of God’s word,” Fitzgerald said. “Those of us who were privileged to hear him will never forget the thrill.” 

Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 


The Observer 


Viewpoint 
page 8 Wednesday, October 13, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
The one 

reject box of 
crayons 

Being an English major and after writing for and working at The Observer for over three years now, I’ve essentially been trained to become increasingly aware to word choice and how it effects how you are per­ceived. Outside of the class­room, my expe­rience doesn’t come from inter­views for a news article nor does it come from Meaghan editing the wide 

Veselik 
variety of emails that are 

Assistant 
submitted to Viewpoint daily. SportsEditor Instead, mine has come from being one of the few female sports writers and living with my three roommates. 
In my past three years, I’ve been impressed with how eloquently Dayne Crist speaks in an interview in comparison to Jimmy Clausen, how excited and confident women’s volleyball and basketball players are when talking to a reporter, and how a football team can embrace a cause by wearing pink and openly speak­ing about the importance of raising funds for breast cancer research. All fun interviews, but they are nothing like the random quotes that come out of my intelligent roommates’ mouths on a daily basis. 
In my apartment, we have a door that we nicely refer to as the “Quote Door.” It’s actually our coat closet but the outside is covered with a preservation of our best one-liners to provide constant entertainment for ourselves and anyone else that walks through our door. The Quote Door is so nicely placed that you see it to your left as you walk through our entryway and can also have a clear view from the couch. It’s a random collection that you can’t get through a line without laughing, either at the outlandish statements that were made before one of us realized what we’d actually said or just at the ridiculous thoughts that pass through our minds. You proba­bly will never get to read all of them unless you know the four of us, so I thought that a few of these quotes might do well to have their day in print. 
But, a disclaimer: most of these weren’t made late night at a party or a bar. We’re really just that awe­some. So here’s a few: I like puppies and dolphins and horsies and fishies. I like aquatic animals; We are not that eatable!; It’s ok guys, I wore my Pumas!; In the shower, I realized I lost my belly button ring. I think it’s at the Backer.; I’d rather marry the ugly billionaire because he can always have plastic sur­gery.”; I’m wearing my fat pants. Except they’re my regular pants.; Guys, I can’t get my fingers on.; I like to giggle when I pee.; The baby grapes freak me out.; We would all be the one reject box of crayons. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
Awaiting the neurocentury 
“All men by nature desire to know,” said Aristotle. The allure of knowledge — peer­ing both inside ourselves and into the vast expanse beyond has occupied some of the most famous thinkers in history. Space has commonly been designated “the Edward A. final frontier” of 
Larkin 

knowledge. Ancient philosophers such Scientifc as Aristotle and Notation Archimedes made the first bold attempts to understand the night sky. More recently, intellectual giants such as Newton, Einstein, and Hawking have advanced our knowledge of the universe further. We now have a framework for its very beginning — the Big Bang. 
But what if the final frontier is a lot more human than we think? George H.W. Bush declared 1990-2000 “The Decade of the Brain,” and neuroscience research exploded during this time. In the end, however, it may be more accurate to label the hundred years starting in 2000 “The Century of the Brain.” There is a certain poetic irony about the proposition — the final great mystery of science being within us, the final frontier of knowledge an investigation of how we can know in the first place. 
As our understanding of the human brain increases, so will our capability to use that knowledge for practical, engi­neering purposes. If one steps back and surveys the landscape, some things we can do currently (in the early phases of under­standing) are remarkable. Neuroprosthetics allow handicapped peo­ple to control prosthetic limbs through brain activity. Certain drugs, dubbed “neu­roenhancers,” can enhance brain function itself (the subject of an excellent 2009 New Yorker article). Lie detector tests have been designed (although their implemen­tation has been very controversial) that differentiate truth from falsehood by actu­ally peering into the brain and analyzing activity in different areas. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Looking into the future of neuroscience can cause one to simultaneously feel great hope and great fear. Medical break­throughs for debilitating diseases such as Alzheimer’s and schizophrenia may be on the horizon. The future of prosthetics, especially when coupled with the emer­gence of stem cell therapy, is exciting. However, it is not hard for the mind to veer into the dark alleys of such a future, beyond the glimmering possibility and promise. What will we do with ourselves when we truly have advanced artificial intelligence that can outperform our brains? How will we enforce rules when access to neuroenhancers is easy? How will we react when the technology exists for someone to possibly know what we are thinking? More importantly, how will these technologies be used? 
Great responsibility and caution will be required from all segments of society to make sure that advances in brain science bring about the intended benefits but min­imize the vast possibilities of harm. The bureaucratic apparatus must make sure that laws dealing with the use of artificial intelligence and brain-based technology are clearly written and strictly enforced. Contrary to typical sentiment, the exis­tence of a slow-moving bureaucracy and heavy regulation could actually be good in this case. Unfettered capitalism with regards to brain-based technology could be disastrous — businesses must think ethically about the social effects of their technology. Social norms will be key, as they are one of the major ways in which right manners of conduct are informed, and regulation and laws are created. 
Most importantly, we as a society must establish a coherent set of principles that forms the fundamental precepts of how we approach issues of neuroethics. These should not be regarded as eternal and absolute rules — as technology evolves, we will certainly be more comfortable with many things than we are today. Hundreds of years ago, many certainly would have cringed to imagine a day in which we can legally own weapons as potent and destructive as guns, drive vehicles 80 miles per hour as a daily routine, or be as dependent upon electronics as we are today. But, by the same token, these pre­cepts should merit substantial considera­tion, as the Constitution does today. 
It is important to note that not all that can go wrong always will. The develop­ment of atomic bombs has not caused humanity to destroy itself (yet). We live in a very peaceful world by the standards of human history. The troubling issues raised by a new understanding of the brain do not automatically warrant despair. As Bill Joy wrote 10 years ago at the conclusion of his haunting analysis of the future, Why the Future Doesn’t Need Us, “it is because of our great capacity for caring that I remain optimistic that we will confront the dangerous issues now before us.” 
It is this care — a fundamental respect for humanity — that will determine the course of the next century with respect to advances in neuroscience. We have the moral obligation and the practical necessi­ty to determine which course we take — whether we harness the power of neuro­science to cure disease and make life rich­er without compromising ourselves in the process, or possibly, something much darker. If the past is any indication, we will persevere — somehow. We’ll adapt course as necessary, charting unknown territory in ways we never dreamed imaginable before. I predict that we will also stay essentially the same, essentially human. All men by nature desire to know. However, we also fundamentally seek a lot of other things. By embracing the first, we need not and should not give up the oth­ers. 
Edward A. Larkin is a senior with a dou­ble major in Biological Sciences and Classical Civilization. He can be reached at elarkin1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The only sure thing about luck isthat it will change.” 
Bret Harte 
U.S. author 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“There is no expedient to which aman will not go to avoid the labor ofthinking.” 
Thomas A. Edison 
U.S. inventor 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, October 13, 2010 page 9 
Something bigger and better 
Young people growing up in low income communities are in need of great teachers and role models. And the stakes are higher than ever. Only one in 10 students growing up in poverty will attend college. And for those 
Lulu Meraz
lacking a college degree, many doors of opportu-Guest nity are firmly columnist shut. 
Young people need mentors and guides to help them become invested in their own future. And they need to see firsthand that it can be done: that people just like them can go to college, earn a degree, and go on to have a meaningful career. When I graduated from Notre Dame and joined Teach For America’s Los Angeles corps, I got a chance to show my students just that. 
A growing number of Notre Dame alumni are becoming part of Teach For America’s efforts to close the achieve­ment gap. My time at Notre Dame has proved invaluable in shaping who I am as a scholar and a person. It has provid­ed me a launching pad to a fulfilling and meaningful work. And now, as a Teach For America teacher, I can help a new generation of students reach for those same stars. 
During my first year as a teacher, I faced many challenges in the classroom. College prepared me for some of these, but I have also had to learn as I go along. Fortunately, my summer of train­ing and professional development with Teach For America has armed me with the tools I’ve needed to confront these challenges head-on. 
As I embarked on my first year in the classroom, I knew that I wanted each of my students to set the goal of college attendance even though they were just beginning their academic career because it would drive their motivation to succeed in school throughout their education. However, many of my stu­dents did not have role models in their family or community that had graduated from college. Many members of their families hadn’t been given the opportu­nities that allowed them to believe that attendance at a four-year college was a realistic goal for their kids I recognized that to build the desire to go to college in my students, I would have to invest their families in that same dream. Student and family investment became my primary goal. I worked relentlessly, connecting with families and telling my students every day that yes they can do it, yes they can achieve and learn, and yes they can go to college and be suc­cessful. Before long, my Kindergarteners were saying they want to go to college, they want to be a doc­tor, a lawyer or the president. We worked together setting individual and classroom goals, and everything we did in class was viewed as a step toward college. 
By the end of the year, it was clear that their families had the same high expectation for my students that I did. I talked with a number of parents about their college aspirations for their chil­dren. They wanted their child to have greater life opportunities than were available to them; they wanted a future for their child filled with confidence, success, and an education. Some even started a savings account for their child’s college fund. I had a picture of the Notre Dame campus in my class­room and one mom, who had started the year skeptical that college atten­dance was a realistic goal for her son, cried as she pointed to the picture and said, “My son can go there. I want that for him. You’re making that a reality for him.” 
For too long in America, demograph­ics and even zip codes have defined chil­dren’s destinies. Teach For America is more than just my two-year commit­ment to teach. It is a way for me to bring my experiences and skills to a new generation of students in low-income communities and provide them with an opportunity at something bigger and greater — and that’s how I’ll impact our children for a long time to come. 
Lulu Meraz is a kindergarden treacher at Aspire Titan Academy. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR The rationality of dining hall guilt 
In this month’s issue of Scholastic, Chris Milazzo sug­gests in his essay “On Guilt” that it’s irrational to feel guilty when failing to clear one’s plate in the dining hall. Milazzo flippantly reasons that “my unfinished sandwich, eaten or not, will not save the starving babies” and therefore, we need not worry about the food we waste in the dining hall. 
Yes, Chris, you’re right, the food from the half sandwich you didn’t eat would not have been airmailed to Africa had you not put it on your plate. But your waste of resources is still, in fact, quite wasteful and worthy of guilt. The half sandwich left on your plate today may not seem like much, but consider the implications of every student taking an extra half sandwich at every meal, every day. 
Incidentally, that is roughly what happens in our dining halls each day. Measurements from the most recent “waste’n’weigh” day at the dining halls estimate that the average student wastes 6.27 ounces of food per meal. That’s 1.25 TONS of food wasted per day. And friends, that’s just ridiculous. 
Look, I’m a reasonable girl — I know the occasional regrettable food choice in the dining hall is unavoidable and some food waste is going to happen. I’m not asking you to make yourself sick finishing the three large scoops of a new casserole you took a chance on in the veggie line that turned out to be soggy and bland. I’m just asking you to only take one scoop at first. Take reasonable portions — going back for seconds is one of the greatest joys of buffet-style dining. Even I can’t claim to be a perfect member of the clean plate club, but I can promise you that I do feel guilty, and rationally so, when I leave uneaten food on my plate. 
My guilt stems from a simple calculation of supply and demand: the amount of food we put on our trays at each meal affects the amount of food ordered by Food Services. The amount of food ordered by Food Services affects the amount of food produced by their suppliers. The amount of food produced by their suppliers affects the amount of resources consumed in the planting, processing and trans­portation of that food. So when you waste food in the din­ing hall you’re also wasting all of the resources that went into the production of that food. Resources like grain that we actually could be sending to famine-stricken areas of the globe, like Africa. Resources like gasoline, whose car­bon emissions are contributing to global climate change, which is having the largest negative effects where? That’s right, you guessed it, the number one thing Notre Dame students like, Africa. 
And it all starts with the choices we make when loading our trays in the dining hall. Feeling guilty yet? 
Julie Zorb 
senior Walsh Hall Oct. 12 

On uncritical acceptance 
If you were swayed by either Mark Easley’s “Vote the Bums Out” (Oct. 7) or Ryan Sullivan’s “Time to Remember” (Oct. 11) you’re not paying attention. American politics has historically been a complex chain of causes and effects acting on tangled web of issues, and never moreso than now. 
So when Mr. Sullivan tells you that “From 1994 to 2006 [the Republicans] utterly destroyed an American econo­my” perhaps doesn’t fairly consider how a Clinton White House that signed those bills into law fits into the situa­tion. And maybe he can’t apply without qualification the eighty-year-old New Deals to a modern, globalized econo­my with a fiat currency instead of the gold standard. And though he lambasts the Iraq War for its contributions to the deficit, for some reason he ignores the fiscal cost of TARP and the bailouts as he admits their tepid impact and promises vague future gains. Are we really to believe that “economists from around the globe” are in complete agreement about this issue? 
Mr. Easley is a little better, since he at least acknowl­edges that neither party deserves complete blame. Still, he doesn’t seem to consider that perhaps too much dereg­ulation helped cause the oil spill that the administration “bungled.” He says that “money is scarce and getting more worthless by the month” which is, as far as I can tell, a blatant contradiction of economic terms. And the “higher taxes” that he warns about are just the taxes that the Bush tax cuts temporarily relieved “if they didn’t work in the timeframe assigned, are they really useful tax cuts? Not all tax cuts are created equal, after all. 
If you’re looking for one-sided, polemic rants that ignore facts in favor of ideologies, you can do better than Misters Sullivan and Easley; silver-tongued rhetoricians on either side will gladly trim away the bothersome facts for you more eloquently than either, and more seductive­ly. If you’d rather be critically informed, you’ll have to think critically for yourself; to do otherwise is to deny reality. Right answers are rarely as easy or as simple as we’d like. 
Thomas Maranges 
junior St. Edward’s Hall Oct. 12 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 

Scene

The Observer 

Scene
Wednesday, October 13, 2010 page 11 

family has just moved, so Finbar has the While “Bloodthirsty” succeeds 
By CAITLIN FERRARO 
opportunity to become one of the undead at in character development, it 
Scene Writer 

his new school. He spends hours studying fails in its age appropriateness. 
“Bloodthirsty” is the debut novel of Notre vampire lore, from “Dracula” to “Twilight.” Yes, Finbar is a 16-year-old boy, Dame alumna Elizabeth Meaney under the His research leads him to adopt an aloof per-which suggests it is normal how pseudonym Flynn Meaney, Flynn being the sona, limit his diet in front of others and throw much he thinks about sex, but his author’s middle name. Capitalizing off the cur-out subtle comments to his susceptible female obsession becomes too much. rent vampire craze, the novel follows sixteen-classmates. Meaney seems to be attempting 
year-old Finbar Frame, a While “Bloodthirsty” is a work of fiction, it is to make Finbar a realistic charac­tall, skinny, pale, awkward not a fantasy or supernatural novel. There are ter; however, relentless refer-teenager, who finds him-not actual vampires roaming New York. Thus, ences to his unfortunate virginal self pretending to be a it is a bit of a stretch that some of the female status and the breast sizes of his vampire to attract girls. characters in the novel actually believe Finbar classmates and teachers are 
The novel’s tag line is a vampire. But if a reader can look past the unnecessary and at times vulgar. sums up the basic prem-idiocy of these fantasy-obsessed girls, STDs, drinking, and drugs are ise: “Some vampires are “Bloodthirsty” is a highly enjoyable light read. not off limits, but for a novel 
good. Some are evil. Some Whether you are a fan of the vampire craze that suggests it is for ages 12 are totally faking it to get or not, Meaney’s jokes are spot on. She pokes and up, the focus on sex is girls.” Finbar is the first fun at the ridiculous fervor of young girl fans. excessive. 
person narrator, and For instance, at a convention for all things While Meaney might be subtly Meaney voices his supernatural Finbar is chased down by a pack reacting to the themes of chastity character perfectly. of “Jacob Blacks.” She is also adept with her and purity in “Twilight,” this novel 
Kudos to Meaney for pop culture references outside of the vampire is supposed to be for young adults creating a voice that world, from “The O.C.” to “The Hills” to but appears to cross the line. actually sounds like “Gossip Girl,” making it a novel perfectly “Bloodthirsty” would be better mar-a guy, albeit a really tuned for our generation. keted to a high school to college age sensitive one. Finbar is not your typical hero and that is audience. 
Finbar is horribly why the novel works. His voice comes through Aside from the sometimes-crude insecure about his clearly in every sentence, and he is relatable sexual references, the novel is quite looks and personali-to Meaney’s young adult audience. A prevalent funny. Finbar is a charismatic, intel­ty. He has always theme throughout the work is that Finbar, just ligent protagonist who makes lived in the shadow like several other smaller but significant char-thought-provoking jokes. Readers of his athletic twin acters, is simply trying to find where he want to root for him. He is sar­brother Luke. When belongs. Things gets interesting when he castic and witty, best shown a series of humiliat-meets a girl, Kate, who might just like him for through his narration and con­ing events reveal who he really is, a sensitive dork who loves versations with love interest that he is allergic to poetry, instead of a cool pseudo-vampire. Kate. the sun, he has a The novel’s other characters are developed In the end, the novel is an entertaining chance encounter well too. Finbar’s relationship with his over-young adult work that turns the vampire craze with a vampire protective mother is absolutely hilarious. She on its head. Even though fall is upon us, it is enthusiast and real-is a quintessential conservative, Catholic hard not to classify “Bloodthirsty” as a perfect izes he can cash in mother who constantly worries about her beach read. One can only expect more good on the vampire awkward son. Due to Finbar’s lack of social things to come from new novelist Meaney. 
craze. life, there are several references to time spent Luckily, the Frame watching chick flicks with her. Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrar1@nd.edu 
Interview With the Vampire (Writer) 


I was always writing and publishing How did you get “Bloodthirsty” pub-exploring the psychology of the term 
By MARISSA FROBES 

things. I liked publishing online and in lished? “vampire.” I don’t create a supernatural 
Scene Writer 

magazines in high school. I was pub-I sent it to agents that I found on a world and stick vampires like Rob Elizabeth “Flynn” Meaney graduated lishing stuff throughout college — I writer’s resource website. One agent got Pattinson in it, and that’s what makes it from Notre Dame in 2009 with a published a novella in college that back to me really quickly; it ended up appealing to more readers. Marketing degree. Currently, she lives in helped me pay for my time studying being a one-day thing. He read it in the New York and is a poetry student in the abroad. [Meaney studied in Dublin morning, and I signed in the afternoon. Favorite pop culture vampire? Hunter College MFA Creative Writing 
while at Notre Dame.] Eric from “True Blood.” program. “Bloodthirsty,” her first major 
Who is your intended audience? novel, was published on Oct. 5. Describe your writing process for High-school and up. Do you have any advice for aspiring Meaney will be at the Hammes 
“Bloodthirsty.” What inspired you to writers or artists at Notre Dame? Bookstore Friday for a book reading and write the book? Can you tell me about any upcoming If you’re already writing, start submit-signing. She spoke with The Observer I was talking to one of my friends and projects? ting your work to online resources and about her time at Notre Dame, her writ-she was reading a lot of young-adult I’m working on my second book in the magazines, even if you’re not confident ing process and her unique perspective vampire novels at the time. She was contract with Little Brown [due out Fall that it is 100 percent perfect. You can on vampire pop culture. reading collectibles — every “Twilight” 2011]. I don’t have a topic yet, but I think work your way up to more established 
and fake-“Twilight” and non-“Twilight” it will be set in the Midwest. magazines, etc. then, and you’ll be get-What do you miss about Notre Dame? vampire book. We were talking about ting feedback along the way, which is Well, not too seriously I miss unlimited how we didn’t have to worry about How do you think you could convince always helpful. Use online resources — fro-yo in the cafeteria, especially the Irish being tan anymore, because pale was someone opposed to the vampire pop you need to find an agent. They can Mint flavor. I miss fall on campus, going “in” because of vampires. I thought culture phenomenon to read your teach you how to write query letters, 
back to school, buying stuff for the dorm, how that might benefit a really nerdy book? which are really important because getting the new year set up and seeing pale kid, and then I came up with the It’s hard because some people hear agents receive hundreds a day, and you everyone again after the summer. story. “vampire” and are immediately turned need to make yours stand out. And don’t off because of the current obsession with be turned off by rejection — I was reject-
Did you become a writer intentional-How quickly did you write the book? vampires. But “Bloodthirsty” is complete-ed tons of times. ly? What were you planning to do with I wrote it in about a month, right ly set in our world, with people like us your Marketing degree upon gradua-before I started grad school — between everyday as characters. It is more about Contact Marissa Frobes at tion? September-October-ish, 2009. relationships between people, and mfrobes@nd.edu 
SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 
page 12 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, October 13, 2010 
NFL 

Kraft says new CBA realistic goal this season 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft says it’s a realistic goal to reach a new collective bargaining agreement with the players before the end of the season. 
At the conclusion of the NFL owners’ fall meetings Tuesday, Kraft said “we’re moving ahead” and he’d “like to see this get done before the season ends.” Asked if that was a real­istic objective, he added “to me it is.” 
Indianapolis Colts owner Jimmy Irsay said it’s not “doomsday,” even though nego­tiations have gone slowly with the union. 
The owners discussed strate­gies for CBA negotiations, and NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said “our issue is to get there sooner rather than later.” 
The CBA expires in March and union leaders believe the NFL is prepared to lock out the players without a new agree­ment. 
THIS IS A BREAKING NEWS UPDATE. Check back soon for further information. AP’s earli­er story is below. 
CHICAGO (AP) — The NFL expects to review the catch rule that cost Lions receiver Calvin Johnson a potential winning touchdown in a season-opening loss to Chicago. 
The play was ruled a no-catch. After Johnson went to the turf with possession, he placed the ball on the ground as he ran to celebrate. It’s been one of the season’s most dis­cussed — and dissed — calls. 

“The going-to-the-ground rule definitely will be dis­cussed,” NFL competition com­mittee co-chairman Rich McKay said Tuesday at the league’s fall meetings. “It’s been discussed the last couple of years. It’s a difficult rule. It was made for on-field officials, not as much for people watch­ing on TV.” 
“There’s a definite conflict,” he added. “We have to go back and look if we extended it too far.” 
The competition committee will meet after the Super Bowl and then suggest any rules changes to team owners at the league’s spring meetings in March. 
Against Chicago, with Detroit trailing 19-14, Johnson leaped to grab a pass from Shaun Hill in the end zone. He got both feet and a knee on the ground before putting the ball on the grass and beginning to cele­brate. It was ruled incomplete because Johnson didn’t main­tain possession of the ball throughout the entire process of the catch. 
McKay also said another move that drew criticism, switching the umpire from behind the defense line to behind the offensive backfield, is working. He hasn’t seen any video of an umpire being hit by another player; last season, there were “between 105 and 115 hits on video.” 
But the move has affected the number of offensive holding penalties, which were up through four weeks. Placing the umpire behind the offense apparently has given him a bet­ter view of blocking on the line. 
Several quarterbacks, partic­ularly Peyton Manning, com­plained in the preseason that the new positioning of the umpires delayed spotting of the ball to restart play. 
“That has not been an issue like some thought it would be in the preseason,” said McKay, the president of the Atlanta Falcons. 
One trend the league is con­cerned with is the number of helmets that have flown off players’ heads. McKay infor­mally charts such things and the league office is keeping count. 
“We’re going back to the each manufacturer and asking why it’s happening,” he said. “It’s definitely something we should be looking at. The union ... and everyone is in on this issue.” 
The union definitely is not in on the league’s claim it needs a better collective bargaining agreement. The owners opted out of the CBA in 2008 and it expires in March. 
These meetings are expected to include discussions of the owners’ plans for labor negoti­ations and any contingency plans if there is a lockout next year. So far, there have been few serious negotiating ses­sions. 
“It’s taken a lot of time and energy to build the league into what it is and we want to keep it going,” Colts owner Jimmy Irsay said Tuesday. “I don’t think it’s doomsday, and we’re taking it a day at a time. Everybody is engaged and from my perspective, the key thing is to find a solution and that’s where both sides are. I know that energy (to reach a deal) will be there.” 

Commissioner Roger Goodell and the NFL Alumni announced a partnership to benefit retired players that will include the Gay Culverhouse Players’ Outreach Program. 
Efforts will include hiring case workers, establishment of a toll-free hotline and personal contact with retired players and their families through events sponsored by NFL Alumni and the Culverhouse program. 
NBA 

Wade resumes light exercise, hopes to play in preseason 
Associated Press would love for him to get some play together, Wade, James and Hamstrings are a little bit tricky. tioning and doing more exten­
in-game action, for us to get in-Chris Bosh made their debut as We want to make sure he gets sive court work.” 
MIAMI — The first step of game action as a full unit. Heat teammates amid great fan-the strength back up and then Wade has been around the Dwyane Wade’s recovery from a Hopefully that happens. I’m not fare on Oct. 5. They were we’ll work on conditioning start-team daily, and traveled with strained right hamstring seems sure what his target date is, but together for all of 3 minutes, 17 ing next week.” the Heat to preseason games in complete. I know he’s making progress.” seconds, before Wade tweaked The Heat play at home against Kansas City and San Antonio 
Wade has resumed some light The Heat were at home the muscle while trying to Charlotte on Oct. 18, then are last weekend. He also appeared exercise and will likely begin Tuesday night against CSKA defend Detroit’s Richard scheduled to practice the follow-at the home of Heat executive what the Miami Heat call Moscow in an exhibition. Hamilton. ing two days before closing the Alonzo Mourning on Monday for “extensive court work” in about Wade isn’t the only Heat play-Wade limped to the bench, exhibition schedule against a fundraiser headlined by a week, meaning there’s still a er sidelined these days; point then into the locker room, and Atlanta (Oct. 21) and Orlando. President Barack Obama. chance he returns to play before guard Carlos Arroyo and hasn’t done any team on-court Given that, it would seem like-Plus, with this being his eighth the preseason ends. He pulled reserve center Jamaal Magloire activity since. And while ly that the Heat would target the year in the Heat system, there the hamstring very early in were also ruled out for Tuesday Tuesday’s news that he is Oct. 19 practice as one where isn’t a whole lot for him to learn Miami’s preseason opener and with minor injuries, and it’s improving is obviously what the Wade might resume the process about the playbook, Spoelstra has been rehabbing since. unlikely either returns to the Heat wanted to hear, they won’t of meshing with his new team-said. 
Miami’s preseason finale is lineup when Miami visits New take any risks during the next mates. “If you had to have a player Oct. 22 against Orlando. The Orleans on Wednesday. step of Wade’s recovery. “He probably feels great,” out, Dwyane in this type of cir-Heat open the regular season in “Anytime you’re dealing with “He’s virtually pain-free now Spoelstra said. “But he certainly cumstance is probably the guy Boston on Oct. 26. something sensitive like a ham-to the touch and digging around doesn’t have the strength and because of his IQ and his under­
“We would definitely want to string or turf toe or jammed in there,” Heat coach Erik conditioning in it, so we’ll be standing of our system,” get a preseason game in,” two-thumb, anything like that, those Spoelstra said. “He’s been doing judicious on when we bring him Spoelstra said. “He’ll be able to time NBA MVP LeBron James are very sensitive,” James said. therapy for a week now, he’s back. He’s already starting light fit in pretty quickly and fast-said. “Not going to sit here and “So I’m definitely happy that already started the process of exercise right now and in about track that process. But we don’t lie and say the 26th is the first he’s coming along.” exercise, so it’ll be day to day. a week we’ll probably take it to want to jeopardize anything at day that we want him back. We After a summer of waiting to But we are not going to rush it. the next level and start condi-this point.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
AVAILABLE NOW UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't Shout out to Team Rowek, aka “Hit No! Look, what's the matter with go it alone. Notre Dame has many It and Quit It.” you all? It's perfectly simple: weFOR RENT FOR RENT resources in place to assist you. If Do work guys and gals have the fire drill when I ring the fire 4BD/2BA HOME FOR RENT. you or someone you love needs bell- That wasn't the fire bell! IRISH CORNER APARTMENTS Chess Lessons: confidential support or assistance, Now some gems from Basil Fawlty: 
USCF and FIDE (International please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 New upscale apts. Less than 1 mi 1.5 miles from ND 574-876-6333 Chess Federation) Master, 2010 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more Hello?... Yes, yes, I picked it up... Yes... No, from ND, next to Taco Bell on ——————————————— Indiana State Chess Champion and information, visit ND's website at: Ah, yes Mr O'Reilly, well it's perfect-no, I haven't had a chance yet... SR933. Fully furnished apts w/gran-NOW RENTING coach of 1997/8 K-8 National http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. ly simple. When I asked you to build Yes, I will... Yes... No, I haven't yet, ite countertops, GE appliances Championship team Dennis ——————————————— me a wall I was rather hoping that but I will... Yes, yes, yes, I know it w/dishwasher. Each has 2bd/2bath. 2011-12 4BD/2BA HOUSES. Monokroussos is offering lessons to If you or someone you care about instead of just dumping the bricks in is... Yes, I'll try and get it cleared Mstr. bdrm w/walkin closet. No players of all ages and levels (local has been sexually assaulted, we a pile you might have found time to up... Anything else? I mean, would water/sewer bill. $1000/mo starting. &amp;amp; online). Please contact can help. For more information, visit cement them together... you know, you like the hotel moved a bit to the Call JSK Development 574-387-STUDENT NEIGHBORHOODS historicchess@comcast.net for Notre Dame's website: one on top of another, in the tradi-left? 4466. 574-876-6333 rates and information. http://csap.nd.edu. tional fashion. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Wednesday, October 13, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

Former agent admits to paying players in 1990s 
Sports Illustrated story implicates 30, including Ryan Leaf; ESPN’s Mel Kiper accused of promoting agents 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — A former sports agent tells Sports Illustrated he paid college football players early in his career, and several of them confirm it to the magazine. 
In the Oct. 18 edition, Josh Luchs said he paid more than 30 players from 1990 -96, including many who didn’t sign with him. 

He said quarterback Ryan Leaf, the second pick in the 1998 draft who famously flopped in the pros, took more than $10,000, most of which he voluntarily paid back after signing with another agent. Leaf declined to comment on specific alle­gations. 
Luchs told the magazine he also paid first-round picks Jamir Miller and Chris Mims. Miller, a linebacker from UCLA taken 10th by the Cardinals in 1994, declined comment. Mims, a defensive lineman from Tennessee taken 23rd by the Chargers in 1992, died in 2008. 
The former agent also said that while he was recruiting Ohio State receiver Santonio Holmes in 2005, Holmes said he had been taking money from an agent for a couple of years. Holmes, now with the Jets, told the magazine that the story was untrue. 
Luchs was suspended for a 
year by the NFL Players Association in 2007 over the handling of a commission check. He says he’s telling his story because “I don’t want my career to be defined by that suspen ­sion.” 
Luchs says he didn’t pay players while 


“This is an area of great concern by the coaches on the college level, and we want to be responsive to that.” 
Roger Goodell NFL commissioner 
working with Gary Wichard, the agent linked to the inves­tigation of NCAA violations at North Carolina. But he says Wichard and John Blake, the Tar Heels assistant who resigned amid the investiga­tion, worked together in vio­lation of NCAA rules in 2002. 
NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said Tuesday that the league has talked to college coaches and agents about reports that a coach was on 
area of great concern by the coaches on the college level, and we want to be responsive to that,” Goodell said in Chicago, site of the NFL’s fall meetings. “I think there is going to be an effort with college coaches and the agent community itself, possi­bly the NFL and NFLPA and to work together to bring a solution.” 
Luchs also told SI that ESPN draft analyst Mel Kiper also helped Wichard recruit players, describing a 2000 meeting with Stanford defen­sive lineman Willie Howard in 
which Wichard had arranged for Kiper to call as he talked with the player. 
Kiper told SI he “would never promote Gary or another agent to a player” and denied that the call was pre ­arranged. 
“Conversations with players, which are occa­sionally facilitat­
ed by agents, are a valuable way to get to know the play­ers,” Kiper said in a state­ment through an ESPN spokesman. “These conversa­tions have never compro ­mised my integrity and my 32 -year record supports that.” 
Luchs sued Wichard for breach of contract after leav­ing his agency and lost the lawsuit. Wichard filed the grievance with the NFLPA over 
an agent’s Luchs’ handling 
“Conversations with
payroll. of the check. 
“We had a players ... have never Wichard and report today compromised my Blake declined from our col-comment
integrity and my
lege relations through their committee on 32-year record lawyers. our relation -supports that.” Luchs says ship with Jonathan agents and Ogden, the 
Mel Kiper
college coach-Baltimore es. This is an ESPN draft analyst Ravens 11-time 
Pro Bowl tackle, 
wouldn ’t take money but accepted Janet Jackson concert tickets in violation of NCAA rules. Ogden confirmed the account. 
Luchs lists more than 20 other players he says he paid: Michigan State’s Tony Banks; Arizona ’s Rob Waldrop; Tennessee ’s Chuck Webb; Portland State ’s Darick Holmes; Illinois’ Mel Agee; USC’s Travis Claridge, Phalen Pounds, R. Jay Soward and Delon Washington; Colorado’s Kanavis McGhee, Joel Steed and Greg Thomas; Washington State ’s Leon Bender, Torey Hunter, Singor Mobley and John Rushing; and UCLA’s Chris Alexander, Ryan Fien, Carl Greenwood, Othello Henderson, Vaughn Parker, Matt Soenksen and Bruce Walker. 
Alexander, Greenwood, Henderson, Mobley, Soenksen, Soward, and Walker confirmed receiving money. Fien, Hunter, Steed and Waldrop said they did not receive money from Luchs. 
Banks, Parker, Pounds and Rushing declined to comment on the allegations. Holmes, McGhee, Thomas, Washington and Webb did not respond to requests to comment. 
Agee, Claridge and Bender are deceased. 
Luchs says Dana Stubblefield, J.J. Stokes and Keyshawn Johnson declined to take money from him. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 13, 2010 

NCAA FOOTBALL 

No. 1 Ohio St. prepares for tough trip to Madison 
Buckeyes to travel to face No. 18 Wisconsin Saturday night; Coach Jim Tressel concerned about diffcult environment 
were some more friendly faces at Camp Randall. 
“It’s a very difficult task when you’re up there,” he said. “We just can’t get a hold 
of as many tickets as we would like. I know our fans would go, but the Badger fans are going to gobble up the tickets.” 
Asked about the worst atmosphere at a game, Heyward said it is “when you’re not winning.” 
Several of the Buckeyes joined the happy crowd two years ago when the stadium speakers blared “Jump Around” by House of Pain before the start of the fourth quarter, a Camp Randall tra­dition. 
The Buckeyes ended up winning that game, also against an 18th -ranked Wisconsin team, 20-17. 
Heyward was too busy to join in the fun. 
“Some guys jump around, but I don’t,” he said. “It was a little too hectic for that.” 
It may be more of the same on Saturday. 
COLUMBUS, Ohio — The pressure is mounting on No. 1 Ohio State —just as the schedule starts to get tougher. 
Not only are the Buckeyes carrying the weight of being the nation’s top-ranked team, but now they must live up to it against a stout 
opponent (No. 

but I don’t think anyone’s complaining about it. We know we have great respon­sibility. We have to take care of business on and off the field and it says a lot about our guys that we have to focus even more.” 
He said teams back in the 
pack don ’t 
have to live up 
18 Wisconsin) in “I would think that to anyone’s a particularly preconceived 
this is going to be as
difficult place notions. 
diffcult a challenge
(Camp Randall “No one Stadium) before as we could ever expects No. 2 a wildly partisan to do every ­
imagine.” 
capacity crowd thing, but 
on Saturday when you’re at night on nation-Jim Tressel No. 1 every ­al television. Ohio St. coach one ’s looking 
“I would think to you to fall,” that this is going he said. “We to be as difficult a challenge know everybody does. And as we could ever imagine,” we look forward to just prov-coach Jim Tressel said ing them wrong.” Tuesday. Making things even more 
The Buckeyes (6-0, 2-0 Big difficult for the Buckeyes is Ten) rose to the top spot this the fact that Wisconsin would week after spending the sea-be a load even without all the son at No. 2 behind Alabama, hubbub surrounding the which lost at South Carolina rankings. on Saturday. Led by senior quarterback 
Playing as the poll-leader is Scott Tolzien and mammoth nothing new at Ohio State. In junior running back John the history of Clay, the the AP poll, Badgers (5-1, 1­the Buckeyes 1) have won 13 
have he ld the  “It’s a very diffcult  of their last 14  
t o p s p o t 9 4 t i m e s . O n l y Oklahoma (97)  task when you’re up there.”  h o m e g a m e s , i n c l u d i n g t h e l a s t s i x . T h e  
a n d  N o t r e  Badgers haven’t  
D a m e  ( 9 5 )  Jim Tressel  turned the ball  
h a v e m o  d o n e s o r e .  Ohio St. coach  o v e r i n t h e i r last four games  
A c c o r d i n g  t o  and the defense  
Ohio State, the  h a s h e l d 1 3 o f  

Buckeyes 66 -11 -1 when the last 16 opponents under ranked No. 1 in the AP or 100 yards rushing. coaches’ poll. “What a test it will be, ” 
This will be the ninth time Buckeyes wide receiver Dane that Wisconsin has hosted a Sanzenbacher said. “But No. 1 team. The Badgers are we’re looking forward to it.” 3-5 in the previous matchups. Ohio State will arrive in Only twice have they wel -Madison, Wis., roughly 24 comed a top -ranked hours before the game. The Buckeyes team, winning 17-7 Buckeyes will have gone in 1942 and losing 24-0 in through almost all the prepa­1973. rations they can by that 
Tressel’s Ohio State teams point. have been ranked for much Tressel just wishes there of his 10-year tenure, making 91 consecutive appearances in The Associated Press Top 
25. That’s the longest current streak in the nation. 
Playing ranked opponents is also nothing new for the Buckeyes. 
Ohio State is 34-14 against AP ranked teams under Tressel, and 9-8 against teams in the top 10. 
But balanced against that success is the recent history. In their last two games as No. 1—against Illinois late in the 2007 season and then to LSU in the Bowl Championship series national title game in January of 2008 —the Buckeyes lost both times. 
Ohio State defensive end Cameron Heyward would have been perfectly happy to stay behind Alabama throughout the regular sea­son in the rankings. That would have been enough to get the Buckeyes into the title game—and to stay out of the most intense spotlight. 
“We always just want to be No. 2, then we just go under the radar,” Heyward said. “We know since we’re No. 1 we’re going to have the bull’s eye on our back even more, 



Wednesday, October 13, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NBA 

Heat win against CSKA Russia after early Lebron exit 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — CSKA Moscow provided one scare, then LeBron James gave Miami another. 
The Heat survived both. 
James scored 22 points in 26 minutes before leaving with leg cramps in the third quarter, Chris Bosh added 17 points and eight rebounds, and the Heat overcame an early 10-point deficit to beat the Euroleague powerhouse 96 -85 in an exhibition on Tuesday night. 
Former Duke star Trajan Langdon scored 20 for CSKA Moscow, which got 17 from Jamont Gordon and 15 from Ramunas Siskauskas. 
It took a 23-4 run in the third quarter — with James and Bosh combining for 19 of those points — for Miami to create any sort of comfort zone over their Russian guests, who will also face Oklahoma City and Cleveland on their NBA preseason tour before returning to Moscow early next week. 
This one wasn’t decided until the final minutes. 

Langdon’s jumper with 4:15 remaining cut Miami’s lead to five, but the Heat answered with four quick points. Kenny Hasbrouck — fighting for a roster spot — found Udonis Haslem for a layup on the next Miami possession, then added a driving layup in tran­sition for a 90-81 lead. 
Hasbrouck finished with 12 points and four assists for Miami. Matjaz Smodis scored 11 for CSKA Moscow. 
Miami played again without Dwyane Wade, who is contin­uing to recover from a strained right hamstring suf­fered in the preseason opener on Oct. 5. Mike Miller started in his place again for the Heat, who were also without Carlos Arroyo and Jamaal Magloire, neither of whom is expected to be back when Miami visits New Orleans on Wednesday. 
CSKA Moscow got quite a welcome: An opera singer performed the Russian national anthem, and a group of fans waved the nation’s flag directly across from the visiting bench. The Heat even exchanged gifts with their Euroleague foes just before tip-off. 
They felt comfortable, for certain. 
Bosh took a lob pass from James and scored 15 seconds into the game. The lead — Miami’s only edge of the half 
— didn’t last, and the visitors weren’t the least bit intimi­dated, either. 
By the midway point of the opening quarter, it was 13-6. When Siskauskas hit a jumper with 4:24 left, CSKA Moscow stretched its edge to 17-7. And after James hit a 3-pointer to tie the game at 34 with 4:16 remaining until halftime, the Russian club peeled off the next seven points, all from the foul line, five of them coming from Langdon. 
At halftime, the lead was 44-39. This wasn’t against the Heat third-stringers and guys playing for jobs, either. James played 18 minutes in the opening half — only Siskauskas logged more, and that was by a mere 56 sec­onds. 
Eventually, James decided enough was enough. 
His acrobatic layup with 
8:38 left in the third, while getting fouled, put Miami ahead 50-49. On the ensuing CSKA possession, James got a steal on the right wing, then found Miller for a left-handed layup and a three-point lead that had the Russian club quickly calling for a timeout. 

James hit a free throw with 
3:53 left, giving Miami a 63­53 lead two seconds before he departed. Miami led the rest of the way. 
PGA 

No. 1 ranking up for grabs as Tiger struggles 
Even those who didn’t even his tournaments. No one else 
Associated Press 

try to understand how the has done that. 
About all anyone can say ranking worked rarely quib-Mickelson has been No. 2 for with certainty about No. 1 in bled about No. 1. That much most of the year, and he has the world is that it won’t be was obvious. been No. 2 longer than anyone Tiger Woods at the end of Woods returned to No. 1 a in the history of the world October. week before the 2005 U.S. ranking without reaching the 
It won’t be Phil Mickelson, Open, and he stayed there by top. Lefty has only himself to either. doing in five years what it has blame for that. He had 13 con-
Lee Westwood hobbled home taken Westwood a career to secutive starts this year with a from the Dunhill Links achieve — 32 victories (along mathematical chance to Championship at St. Andrews with five majors) and 15 run-replace Woods at No. 1 and to rest his calf injury. He does-ner-up finishes. didn’t get it done, including a n’t plan to compete again until The question is why he 78 in the final round at the HSBC Champions in stayed there so long this year. Firestone and a 76 in the final Shanghai at the earliest. By Not only did he take off five round at the TPC Boston. not playing, and through a months when his personal life Perhaps the player with the gradual reduction of points, imploded, Woods has only two best case is Kaymer. he will have a higher average top 10s this year, a tie for Not only has he won four than Woods in the ranking fourth in the Masters and U.S. times, he captured his first published Nov. 1. Open. Because points are major at the PGA 
But that doesn’t guarantee gradually reduced over a Championship, had top 10s in Westwood will be atop the rolling two -year period, two other majors and has world ranking for the first Woods has lost more world accumulated the most ranking time in his career. ranking points this year points of any player in 2010. 
Martin Kaymer moved to No. (330.105) than any other play-Then again, it’s not only about 4 with his fourth win of the er has earned. winning, and it’s not just year at the Dunhill Links, and But it’s important to under-about the majors. And the the 25-year-old German can stand what the world ranking ranking is about more than go to No. 1 if he wins the is — and what it is not. one year. 
Andalucia Masters at Just because a player is No. That’s where Westwood fits this year, through the injury, Westwood will rise to No. 1 Valderrama the last weekend 1 in the world doesn’t mean in. and you still have the great without lifting a club, much in October. he’s the world’s best player. During the last two years, chance to go to world No. 1?” less holing a putt. That would 
“At the moment, for me, Lee Anyone who has watched Westwood has three wins, four he said at St. Andrews. be OK with him. Westwood is the best player in Woods over the course of the seconds and four thirds. He “You’ve come in second in two “It’s something I’ve always the world,” Kaymer said. season can figure that out. It was runner-up at the Masters major championships. You dreamed of, and it would be 
Not yet. also was pretty clear in 2004 and British Open this year, must be doing something great if it happened,” he said. 
And maybe not for long. that Vijay Singh was the best tied for third in the British right.” Sure, it might be anticlimac-
They all could meet in golfer on the planet, yet the Open and the PGA It would be an amazing tic, but that can happen when Shanghai — assuming Fijian didn’t rise to No. 1 until Championship last year. He comeback for Westwood, who a ranking is based on math — Westwood is fit to play — and the sixth of his nine wins that won the Order of Merit on the was No. 4 in the world in addition, subtraction and divi­all four could have a shot at season. European Tour. And he had to 2000, then fell out of the top sion. It brings to mind the No. 1. Being No. 1 simply means sit out for two months in peak 200 during a three-year summer of 1999, when Woods 
For most of the last decade, that player has compiled the form because of his calf injury. slump. He never imagined easily dispensed of David any debate about the world best average (net points divid-Asked why he did not plan to back then that he could one Duval in that Monday night ranking took place around No. ed by number of tournaments) take up PGA Tour membership day reach No. 1. exhibition known as the 50, not at the top. Aside from during a two-year period. The last year, Westwood shared Not many could have “Showdown at Sherwood.” A 
incentives in endorsement world ranking used to meas-something that his manager, guessed it might happen like week later, when neither contracts, the real value of the ure three years. The board Chubby Chandler, had told this. Westwood’s only win this played, Duval went back to 
ranking came from the majors could decide it should be only him. year was the St. Jude Classic, No. 1 in the world. giving exemptions to the top one year. Or one month. “Why would you take up made possible by Robert The following week, Woods 50 (or the top 100 for the PGA In the last two years, Woods membership in the States Garrigus taking triple bogey won the PGA Championship 
Championship as it tries to won seven times and finished when you’ve been the most on the last hole. If Kaymer and was No. 1 for the next five assemble the strongest field). in the top 10 in 58 percent of successful player in the world doesn’t win at Valderrama, years. 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 13, 2010 
NFL 

Branch adjusts to New England after trade 
Associated Press 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. — Together again, Deion Branch and Tom Brady walked side­by-side to the sunny practice field. 
The Patriots new wide receiver was getting a crash course on plays installed since he left in 2006 after they were part of two NFL championships. 
“I still remember some plays,” Branch said Tuesday. “They didn’t call those plays today.” 
The Patriots reacquired the player they drafted in the sec­ond round in 2002 — and the MVP of the 2005 Super Bowl 
— from the Seattle Seahawks on Monday for a fourth-round draft pick next year. 
Some things are the same since New England traded him to Seattle. Brady, center Dan Koppen, tackle Matt Light, guard Stephen Neal and running back Kevin Faulk are still around from the offense. 
And much is different. The Patriots haven’t won the Super Bowl since he left. Randy Moss has come and gone. And Branch is wearing No. 84 because his old 83 belongs to Wes Welker. 
“Wes came in, did a great job,” Branch said with one of the many wide smiles he flashed throughout his 10­minute news conference. “I’m just going to get one (number) higher than his because I’m taller than him.” 
At 5-foot-9, Branch doesn’t exactly tower over Welker. And with Julian Edelman, listed at 5-10, three of the Patriots top four receivers are small. 

Size isn’t the only difference between Branch and the 6-4 Moss, whose trade to the Minnesota Vikings on Wednesday created the need for an experienced wide receiver. Branch hopes to play Sunday against the Baltimore Ravens. 
“That ’s the first thing I want to let you all know,” Branch said. “I’m not here to replace Randy. I’m not Randy Moss. I wasn’t Randy Moss when I was here and I’m not here to replace him. My job is to go out and do what the offense asks me to do.” 
Moss was a deep threat who drew double teams. Branch is a possession receiver. But both left the Patriots after having contract concerns and said they felt as if they were home again after being trad­ed to their original NFL teams. 
Moss said several times this year he didn’t think the Patriots would re-sign him before his contract expired after this season. Branch, who led the Patriots with 78 catches in 2005, was traded the day after the 2006 opener following a 45-day holdout staged in hopes of improving on the $1.045 million he was to receive that year, the last of his original contract. 
“I wish it never happened, but no regrets,” he said. “When I left here there weren’t any issues between me and Coach (Bill) Belichick, none at all. We talked during the course of the year. ... We didn’t leave on a bad note and I think that’s why it was so easy to return.” 
Branch is signed through next season with base salaries of $5.45 million in 2010 and $5.95 million in 2011. But he said he’d be willing to adjust that. He also said he thought it more likely he would be traded last year when he started just five of his 14 games. 
Brady isn’t sure Branch’s transition will be smooth. 
“I’m sure there will be a pretty steep learning curve for him. Hopefully, he gets up to speed as quickly as possi­ble because we’ll need him this week,” Brady said on his weekly appearance on WEEI radio. 
Brady also denied a report aired on a CBS pregame show Sunday that he and Moss had a confrontation before the receiver was traded. 
Branch, in his first stint with the Patriots, had 213 receptions for 14 touchdowns. Moss was much more prolific with 259 catches and 50 touchdown receptions in three full seasons plus four games this year. But Branch was outstanding in the 2004 and 2005 Super Bowls with a total of 21 catches. 
“I’m excited,” said Edelman, a seventh -round draft choice last year. “He’s been here when they won Super Bowls and I’m going to be able to get to learn from another guy, another veter­an,” 
Branch started three of Seattle’s four games this sea­son, catching 13 passes for 112 yards and one touch ­down. He’s been healthy after missing parts of the past three seasons with knee, hamstring and foot injuries. He caught 190 passes, 15 for touchdowns, with the Seahawks. 
He said he was “very thank­ful” to have been part of the Seahawks organization and also to return to the team 
that drafted him then traded him for a first-round pick in 
2007 that turned  out  to  be  
s t a r t i n g  s a f e t y  B r a n d  o n  
Meriweather.  

“The opportunity presented itself and they took another shot at it,” Branch said. 
None of the team’s receivers were on the team during Branch’s first go-round in New England. 

NFL 

Goodell to meet with Favre about incident 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said Tuesday there was no timetable for wrapping up an investigation of an Internet report that Vikings quarter­back Brett Favre sent racy text messages and lewd pho­tos to a former New York Jets game hostess. 
“We’re just looking for facts now,” Goodell said at the NFL owners meeting. “I am going to deal with it as we get the facts.” 
He said he had no plans to meet with Favre, “but if it is something that would help us get to a conclusion and it is warranted, I will do so.” 
The investigation, announced last week, centers on a report by the sports web­site Deadspin that in 2008 Favre, then with the Jets, sent the photos and messages to Jenn Sterger. 
Sterger’s manager, Phil Reese, declined to say if his client has talked with the NFL. 
“This is something that allegedly happened two years ago,” Reese said in an e-mail to The Associated Press. “We don’t want a quick resolution, but the proper resolution.” 

Favre could be fined or sus­pended under the NFL’s per­sonal conduct policy. 
“One of the reasons we insti­tuted the personal conduct policy ... to make everyone understand their responsibili­ties,” Goodell said. “We’re not going down a line of specula­tion and hypothetical situa­tions.” 
Favre has not responded to questions about the Deadspin report. 
Deadspin reported the voice­mails include a man asking to meet with Sterger, who now is a TV personality for the Versus network. The website posted a video that contained those messages and several below-the-waist photos — said to be of Favre — that were allegedly sent to Sterger’s cell phone. 
Deadspin also reported that Favre pursued two female massage therapists who worked part time for the Jets. The website didn’t identify the women, however the Jets have said they gave contact infor­mation about them to the league. 

Wednesday, October 13, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 

CLUB SPORTS 

Squash program looks to expand popularity 

By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 

With a strong presence on campus for over 75 years, squash has become a popular campus pastime. The sport has been a staple at Notre Dame since the 1930’s and continues to grow in popularity amongst students. 
Squash history runs deep at Notre Dame. Assistant direc­tor of club sports Dave Brown is a member of the College Squash Association (CSA) Hall of Fame. Brown was head coach at Navy for 17 years, earning 267 wins and a top-10 national ranking in 13 of those seasons. In addition, 12 squash courts at the Rockne Memorial Gym have been in use by stu­dents for decades. 
The Notre Dame Squash Club has embraced this campus tra­dition and taken it to the next level. Founded just six years ago, the club has allowed both men and women on campus to play the sport at a highly com­petitive level. Over the past six years, the men’s squad has traveled across the country to compete in various events and has even sent a team to the CSA National Championships in each of those years. 
Irish coach Geoff McCuen, who has been at the helm of both the men’s and women’s teams for all six years, believes that squash is a great match for students at Notre Dame. 
“Squash is a game that requires not just quick physical reactions, but the ability to make wise strategic decisions in a short amount of time . often thinking one or two shots ahead of your opponent,” he said. “It's as much a mental competition as it is a physical one. That's why I think it's such a good fit for many Notre Dame students.” 
McCuen has been pivotal in not only spreading squash at Notre Dame, but also growing the historically east-coast sport throughout the midwest. He has helped bring teams to Purdue, Western Michigan and the University of Illinois-Springfield. 
The Notre Dame men will match up against many of these teams during their first event of the year, the Midwest Round Robin at Kenyon College. The men’s team will also travel to Seattle, Wash., this year, while the women will play at Smith College in Massachusetts. Both teams will travel to the CSA Championships to cap off the season. 
McCuen has been pleased with the growing participation in the club. 
“Each year we seem to retain more and more [members] as we get deeper into the semes­ter,” he said. “This year, the club has been filling the five-lined courts at the Rock every Tuesday and Thursday night.” 
Although the sport has grown on campus, McCuen encourages even more players to give the sport a try and to have the opportunity to repre­sent the proud Notre Dame athletic tradition. 
“I think [new players] will find it a great way to get some exercise, lose some stress, meet other players and just have a great time,” McCuen said. “And if you have the interest in traveling across the country as a member of the Fighting Irish Squash Team, we still have a few open posi­tions on both the men's and women's teams.” 
The squash club meets Tuesdays through Thursdays from 7 to 9 p.m. at the Rock. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 
MLB 

Lee shuts down Rays; TexasadvancestoNLCS 
Associated Press 

ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. — Cliff Lee added another impressive line to his growing October resume, putting the Texas Rangers on his back and carry­ing them into the AL champi­onship series for the first time. 
Lee tossed another postseason gem and Texas won a playoff series for the first time, beating the Tampa Bay Rays 5-1 Tuesday night in a decisive Game 5 on the legs of some dar­ing baserunning. 
Lee struck out 11 in a six-hit­ter for his second win over Rays ace David Price in a series in which the road team won every game — a first in major league history. 
“It was a lot of fun, I know that much,” Lee said. “We had our back against the wall today and we came out and performed.” 
The Rangers will host the wild-card New York Yankees in the opener of the best-of-seven ALCS on Friday night. Texas’ previous three playoff appear­ances ended with first-round losses to New York, in 1996, 1998 and 1999. 
The teams split eight games during the regular season, with the Rangers winning the final four. 
“They’re a great team and that’s why they are where they are,” Lee said. “They’re going to be a good challenge, just like these guys.” 
Ian Kinsler hit a two-run homer in the ninth inning for Texas, which had been the only active major league franchise that hadn’t won a playoff series. 
Lee improved to 6-0 with a 
1.44 ERA and three complete games in seven career postsea­son starts, striking out 54 and walking six in 56 1-3 innings. 
The left-hander, acquired from Seattle in July, threw 120 pitches and walked none. He retired his final nine batters and prevented Tampa Bay from completing an improbable comeback after los­ing the first two games at home. 
page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, October 13, 2010 
Rudolph 
continued from page 20 
ing to get over it week in and week out.” 
Kelly said Rudolph’s injury was aggravated during Notre Dame’s game against Pittsburgh Saturday. Rudolph did not play in the fourth quarter of that game. 
“It was during the game. He felt very good before the game. Exertion, you know, obviously, caused the injury,” Kelly said. “You know, he tried to play through it. ... He’s a courageous kid and he's tried to fight through it. Unfortunately it's led to, you know, him being sidelined for the season.” 
Later, Rudolph found out that of three tendons attached to the bone, two had been torn off. 
“I don't regret playing in any of the games that I played in,” Rudolph said. “In all actuality, it was my decision to go when I did and go as hard as I did." 
Rudolph, a pre-season All-American, had 28 receptions for 328 yards and three touchdowns in the first six games of the sea­son. The numbers include a 95­
Roles 
continued from page 20 
have. Angela is one who always puts the team first.” 
Puente continued that trend last season, where she had one of her most successful seasons all around. Her effective receiv­ing skills, which have aided her in the past, allowed Puente to have 10 errorless matches. She made a second consecutive appearance in the Big East Championships against Louisville, helping the Irish battle through a five-set match with Ohio in the NCAA Tournament. 
Puente has been using her role as captain to help keep her teammates focused, on and off the court, with her strong com-yard touchdown reception against Michigan on Sept. 11. 

“You lose one of the best tight ends in the country. That's a loss,” Kelly said. “But, you know, not one player is going to stop what we do. It's a next-man in philoso­phy for us, [sophomore] Tyler Eifert, [senior] Mike Ragone, [sophomore Jake] Golic; those guys are going to have to step up and play the position for us at a high level. We think those guys can. We have a lot of confidence in them.” 
Rudolph’s surgery will require six months of recovery, but Rudolph said he would work with his back-ups however he can. 
“I'm going to be out here every day after my surgery as quick as I can to help those guys, whether it's game plan or just stuff on a weekly basis that they're not real­ly used to dealing with,” Rudolph said. “They've taken the reps, that won't be a big problem for them." 
Rudolph will be eligible to enter the 2011 NFL draft, but said he is not looking that far ahead. 
“The surgery right now is what’s most important,” he said. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 

munication skills. Although her volleyball career will end with the conclusion of the season, Puente isn’t letting that stop her from holding on to two team goals she hopes to see achieved this season. 
“Well there's no professional league in America, and the beach tour just got cancelled, so my volleyball career is going to be over in three months,” Puente said. “But we're going out with a Big East title and a spot in the NCAA sweet 16.” 
Puente and the Irish will return to their home court this Friday with the hopes of turn­ing their recent two-match los­ing streak around and defeat­ing conference foe DePaul in the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@stmarys.edu 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles look to rally from four-game losing streak 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s will try to rediscover its winning ways as the squad travels to Hope College Wednesday. 
After winning two of three in late September, the Belles (2­12, 2-7 MIAA) have fallen into a slump, having lost their last four games, including a tough 6-2 defeat to Marian College on Sunday. 
Although they were out­played in the first half, the Belles outscored Marian 2-1 in the second half, and SMC coach Michael Joyce said that he thinks his squad can carry some of that momentum into Wednesday’s game against Hope. 
“There is some consolation in a good second half,” Joyce said. “We are a young team, so you have to take advantage of game opportunities to build chemistry and improve as a team. We're also a team that never stops working, which I'm very proud of.” 
Joyce said that the impor­tance of this game against the Flying Dutch is not lost on him or his team. 

“Hope is a big game,” Joyce said. “If we want to have a shot at the conference play­offs, we need points out of this game. This late in the season, we can't wait for opportuni­ties down the road.” 
With a record of 3-6-2 (1-2­1 MIAA), the Flying Dutch pro­vide a great opportunity for the Belles to notch their third win of the season. To do so, they must contain Hope senior Courtney Cook, who leads the team in goals and points. 
Coach Joyce said that he knows he has to change some things around if the Belles are to have success. 
“We might dig into the bench a little more against Hope to try and keep that intensity high with new play­ers coming on the field,” Joyce said. 
Kickoff is at 5 p.m. Wednesday at the Van Andel Soccer Stadium. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
Usher 
continued from page 20 

the best to-par score in a three-round tournament in program history with 2007 graduate Cole Isban. Scodro and Usher have consistently scored well for the Irish at the beginning of the season, which is just how Kubinski envisioned it. 
“They have pretty different games, the two of them,” he said, “But they’ve brought such stability to the lineup.” 
Junior Chris Walker and freshman Niall Platt both fired a 217 over three rounds to round out the scoring. Platt’s 65 in the first round was the low round of the tournament for any golfer in the field, but his final round 80 brought him back to the pack after an eight-bogey round. 
“The first round he hit the ball beautifully — he hit 15 out of 18 greens in regula­tion, which is above the PGA Tour average,” Kubinski said. “Once he got on the green, he only had 26 putts to post the 
65. I don’t care whether you’re a freshman, sopho­more, junior or senior, that’s a great score. Today he just didn’t strike the ball as well, and he also didn’t put as well as he did in the first round.” 
Moving forward, the Irish will play in two tournaments over fall break as the team travels to warm weather and to elite golf courses. First up is the Lone Star Invitational on Oct. 17 and 18 in San Antonio. 
Break 
continued from page 20 

the Irish (5-3-3, 1-1-0 Big East) will look to bounce back from a tough loss to West Virginia as they take on a Golden Eagles (5-3-5, 0-0-2) squad that has either won or tied in each of its last six matches. 
“Right now, Marquette’s about as confident as they’ll ever be,” Clark said. “They’re a good team, and they haven’t lost in their last six games. We’ve watched a lot of video, a lot of tape on them.” 
The Irish will look to get back to their winning ways after a 2-1 loss to West Virginia. The Mountaineers scored two early goals to put the squad in a deep hole — evidence of a trend Clark said is becoming a concern. 

MATT SAAD/The Observer Junior Max Scodro tees off at the Fighting Irish Gridiron Golf Classic on Sept. 27. The Irish fnished second in the tournament. 
“This is a new tournament “We’re going to play Pebble for us, and the course at Beach and Spyglass Hill as a Briggs Ranch comes highly warm-up to the event,” acclaimed by other coaches,” Kubinski said. “It’s a two Kubinski said. “It should be a course event, which is pretty good test, and it’s a long unique for college golf. The course which suits us well. I courses are true ball-striking think we’ll do really well.” courses, so it’ll be a great test 
After the Irish wrap up in for our golfers in a great Texas, they will head to locale.” California for the Saint Mary’s Invitational at Bayonet and Contact Chris Allen at Blackhorse on Oct. 25 and 26. callen10@nd.edu 
“I think it’s a good compari­son to the United States national team at the World Cup this summer,” Clark said. “It seemed like someone need­ed to score against them to light the fire underneath them. That’s happened to us twice . in the Northwestern game and the West Virginia game. It’s time we put together a com­plete 90 minutes of soccer.” 
Though Notre Dame will cer­tainly enjoy the backing of an enthusiastic home crowd after facing road rivals last week, the Golden Eagles come into the game with momentum on their side. Marquette has been propelled by the stellar play of sophomore goalkeeper David Check, who has been keeping opponents in check all season to the tune of a .64 goals against average that places him amongst the top goalies in the country. 
“Obviously if he’s been doing 
defeat another conference opponent with Olivet (7-8, 4­
Donations 
6) coming to town. continued from page 20 Kuschel said the Belles need to have a particularly 
for something bigger than strong performance against ourselves,” Belles coach Toni the Comets to notch a second Kuschel said. “We will be consecutive victory. helping to “We will raise aware-need to bring ness and “We will need to bring a a lot of energy money for to the match,” 
lot of energy to the
the fight she said. “We 
match. We will also 
against will also need breast can-need to click offensively, to click offen­
cer.” as well as play great sively, as well 
The Belles as play great 
defense.” 
(4 -14, 2-7 defense.” M I A A ) The Comets snapped Toni Kuschel defeated the their seven Belles in their 
Belles coach 
match losing only match up streak with to this point, a 3-2 victory over Albion 3-1. It was a tightly contest-Saturday and are looking to ed match, but Olivet took well, then we’ve got to set the record straight,” Clark said. “It gives us an opportunity to do that tomorrow night. But it’s more than just the goalkeeper . they’ve defended well as a team also. They let through two goals against Pittsburgh this weekend, so hopefully we can score as well.” 
Leading the charge for the Irish on offense will be senior forward Steven Perry, who added a goal in the Irish loss to West Virginia off an assist from sophomore midfielder Dillon Powers to bring his team-high total to six on the season. Perry and fellow sen­ior forward Jeb Brovsky have accounted for eight of the 14 Irish goals this season. 
The Big East clash gets underway at Alumni Stadium at 7 p.m. Wednesday. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 

home the victory in four sets (25-22, 25-22, 19-25, 25-16). 
Following their match against Olivet, Saint Mary’s will have only six conference regular season games before the MIAA Tournament begins. Kuschel said that strong play is needed in these final few weeks. 
“We need to continually get better all around,” she said. “We have a very young team that will be vital for our success for the rest of the season, as well as in the future.” 
The match begins at 7 p.m. at Saint Mary’s, as the Belles look to win on the court and contribute to a victory against breast cancer. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 

Wednesday, October 13, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST 


HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 

MIKE ARGIRION 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Wednesday, October 13, 2010 page 20 
FOOTBALL 
Rudolph out for season with hamstring injury 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Junior tight end Kyle Rudolph will have surgery this week and will miss the rest of the football season, Irish coach Brian Kelly announced Tuesday. 
“There was an evulsion of both tendons on his hamstring; in other words, they came off the bone, so that's going to require surgery,” Kelly said in his weekly press conference. “And right now, his family is putting togeth­er, really, you know, the doctor, who is going to do the surgery, the rehab, all of those things.” 
Rudolph had struggled with hamstring since injuring it dur­ing a one-on-one drill over the summer, and said he never felt 100 percent after that. 
"It's definitely frustrating, especially when you deal with something for so long,” Rudolph said. “You know, you're just try-
see RUDOLPH/page 18 

Man down 

TOM LA/The Observer Junior tight end Kyle Rudolph holds on to a catch during Notre Dame’s 23-17 victory over Pittsburgh Saturday. Rudolph will have season-ending hamstring surgery later this week. 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles hold fundraiser for cancer 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 

Tonight will be a special opportunity for Saint Mary’s, both on and off the court. The Belles will be holding their annual “Dig for the Cure Event ” during their home match against Olivet this evening. 
The team, along with other participants, will be going around the stands asking for donations throughout the evening. They are asking fans to pledge an amount of money for each dig they pick up during the match. Also, pink shirts and desserts will be sold. All proceeds will go towards breast cancer research and awareness. 
“This is a very special night for us as we will be playing not only for a win but also 
see DONATIONS/page 18 

ND VOLLEYBALL 

Senior libero Angela Puente puts leadership on display 
the first day she stepped on a role she has been preparing ed a six-match streak with successful Irish defense. But
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 

campus at Notre Dame,” Irish for since day one, and a role twelve or more digs. sharing her role has never 
Sports Writer 

coach Debbie Brown said. she held her senior year of high Puente’s sophomore season bothered Puente, an attribute 
“Even as a freshman, she was-school as well. was highlighted by another that stood out to her coach. 
Leading the team isn’t always n’t hesitant to speak up in team Since stepping onto the Irish year of strong performances, as “She has always been a about having the highest num-meetings when she felt strongly court, Puente has been show-she played a key role on a strong team player, whether ber of kills or digs. It’s not about something. She has the casing her skills as a player as squad that made it to the final she has started or been a sub-about who can block the most ability to have a strong opinion, well, stepping into the role of round of the Big East stitute,” Brown said. “This has or who can set up the best play. but at the same time be open to libero and learning to analyze Championships against helped her to relate to all on But it is always about heart, hearing others’ views and other teams’ game plans as a Louisville. The season also the team and to be sensitive to and that’s where senior libero accepting them. “ defensive specialist. In her included Puente and classmate how her teammates might Angela Puente is at the top. Puente’s leadership skills rookie season, she was second Megan Dunne sharing the react to the various roles they 
“Angela has demonstrated earned her the title of Notre on the team in digs with 276, libero role with junior Frenchy strong leadership skills from Dame’s co-captain this season, averaging 2.82/set. That includ-Silva, contributing to a highly see ROLES/page 14 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish face tough schedule 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
The No. 22 Irish will take to the familiar pitch of Alumni Stadium Wednesday night to face off against Marquette in the only home match of a diffi­cult four-game stretch that takes the Irish to three differ­ent locations. 
“I think the players will be fine,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “The road trips last week were tough because the players were in the middle of midterms. Next week during fall break, it’s almost like going on a trip with the team, so that’ll be okay.” 
Before embarking on a three-game road trip over fall break, 
see BREAK/page 18 


MEN’S GOLF 

Scodro ties record; squad finishes second 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 

For the third straight tour­nament, the Irish played well 
— and for the third straight tournament, they came up just short of a victory. 
Notre Dame wrapped up play Tuesday at the Firestone Invitational at Firestone Country Club in Akron, Ohio, with a final team score of 14­under-par, one stroke behind Indiana for the top spot on the leader board. Regardless of the outcome, Irish coach Jim Kubinski said the Irish are optimistic at this point in the season. 
“You know, as much fun as it is to win a tournament in October, we have to look past that,” Kubinski said. “We have to remember that it’s a long season. Our goal is to keep getting better each tournament and get better for the long run, and ulti­mately we’re doing that. You want to make the postseason and championships in the spring.” 
Leading the Irish at Firestone were juniors Max Scodro and Tom Usher, who fired 209 and 212 respective­ly over three rounds to pace the squad. Scodro’s score of 7-under-par for the tourna­ment places him in a tie for 
see USHER/page 18 






