the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


South Bend earns Municipal Excellence award 
National League of Cities recognizes involvement in partnerships with Notre Dame, other local community groups 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
The City of South Bend received the Gold Award for Municipal Excellence from the National League of Cities Friday, specifically because of its involvement in several partner­ships to revitalize the area of South Bend around Notre Dame’s campus, according to a University press release. 
Tim Sexton, associate vice president of Student Affairs and president of the Northeast Neighborhood Revitalization Organization (NNRO), said the award recognizes more than 10 years of work by South Bend and Notre Dame. 
“It’s an affirmation of a lot of hard work by a lot of good peo­ple,” Sexton said. “It’s also a great recognition for the neigh­bors [in the Northeast Neighborhood]. It’s shows clear­ly we are going down the right track.” 
South Bend Mayor Stephen Luecke received the award in Denver at the annual Congress of Cities and Exposition put on by the League, according to the press release. Marguerite Taylor, who works for Robinson Community Learning Center and lives in the Northeast Neighborhood, represented the University and the Northeast Neighborhood Council. 
“We are very happy that Notre Dame’s hometown has been so deservedly recognized with this award, and we’re pleased, as well, to have played a role in bringing these initiatives to real­ity for the well-being of our region as a whole,” University spokesman Dennis Brown said. 
The award recognized specific efforts between the city and its partners, including the NNRO, Innovation Park, the develop­ment and expansion of the Indiana University School of Medicine at South Bend, and 


see AWARD/page 4 



By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
After the University increased its response rate for Course Instructor Feedback (CIF) by offering an incentive during the 2009-2010 academ­ic year, students who complete CIFs can once again see their grades a week earlier this year. 
Students who complete CIFs will be able to view their semester grades Dec. 21, while others will not have access to their grades until Dec. 27. 
In the fall of 2009, the first semester this incentive was offered, the response rate for online CIFs climbed from 63 to 87 percent, according to 



CIF early grade incentive continues 
Dennis Jacobs, vice president and associate provost. 
Not only was that higher than the previous two semes­ters, but it was also higher than response rates for the paper Teacher/Course Evaluations (TCE) used before 2008. 
“We would get response rates in the mid-70 range, about three-fourths of students [with TCEs],” Jacobs said. “A lot of students weren’t in class, a lot of students just left.” 
The University instituted the incentive last fall because the response rate dropped after switching from paper TCEs to online CIFs, Jacobs said. 
see CIF/page 5 

OIT to provide more Google apps for students 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
The Office of Information Technologies (OIT) will flip the switch Dec. 21 to increase the number of Google applications at the fingertips of Notre Dame stu­dents. 
Katie Rose, an OIT infrastruc­ture specialist, said there have been many requests from stu­dents and faculty to increase the number of Google services linked with their University accounts. The top three requests were for Google’s Blogger, Picasa and Reader. 
According to the Google Apps website, Picasa is a service for uploading and sharing photos, Blogger allows students to create their own blogs, and Google Reader offers users a faster way to access blogs and news feeds. 
“Students will now be able to access services like Picasa and Blogger automatically with their ND accounts. I know Blogger has been requested a bit since a lot of classes use it for collaborative work,” she said. “And Picasa is popular in the arts and even some of the sciences because of the types of graphic work they do.” 
Rose said students will benefit from the easy access they will have to these services once the change is made. In the past, stu­dents have had to sign up for sep­arate accounts to work with these applications. 
“There was just a core set of services originally. It had Gmail, which was the most popular, but we also had Google Calendars, Google Docs and Google Sites when we initiated it,” she said. “Unfortunately, we weren’t able to add many of the other services before because that wasn’t part of what Google was offering initial­ly.” 
Google offers 60 services overall as part of its suite. With a com­mercial account, any user may access them. For Notre Dame and other academic institutions, how­ever, Google offers a smaller set of services. Rose said requests for more Google services from these universities are common. 
“A lot of other schools get simi­lar requests and that gets sent back to Google from the Customer Advisory Board and other various online mechanisms,” Rose said. 
Google has taken these requests and analyzed account manage­ment, she said. With the upcom­ing change, they hope to offer more services in the most effective manner. 
“They are making an infrastruc­ture change that will allow them to do all of these other services in one fell swoop,” Rose said. “That’s 
see GOOGLE/page 4 


Professor researches historic St. Nick 

By NORA KENNEY 
News Writer 
During the Christmas sea­son, Fr. Nicholas Ayo’s expertise on Saint Nicholas, the man from whom the legend of Santa Claus origi­nated, is especial­ly rele­vant. 
Ayo, professor emeritus in the Program of Liberal Studies, pub­lished a book in 2006 titled “Saint Nicholas in America: Christmas Holy Day and Holiday.” 
“I got invested after I was fully grown — age 30,” Ayo said of his inter­est in the saint. “I started collecting stories and pic­tures. There’s a lot of lore out there.” 
That lore appears to be matched by a similar amount of devotion. According to Ayo, Saint 

see ST. NICK/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER CLC debates drinking page 3  Scene: The year in review page 8  Men’s swimming takes second at invite page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Tuesday, December 7, 2010 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: DEATH BY SNOW OR DEATH BY FIRE?
THE OBSERVER 








P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Laura McCrystal Chris Masoud Kristen Durbin Matthew Robison Emily Schrank Joe Wirth 

Graphics Scene 
Brandon Keelean Marissa Frobes 

Photo Viewpoint 
Pat Coveney Madeline Roe 


OFFBEAT 

Man goes from Smith to Awesome 
EUGENE, Ore. — An Oregon man has had an Awesome name change. 
Douglas Allen Smith Jr. says he changed his name to Captain Awesome last month because he was inspired by the nickname of a character on the NBC television show “Chuck” — Dr. Devon “Captain Awesome” Woodcomb. 
The unemployed Eugene cabinet installer says he found it funny Woodcomb’s father gave him that nick­name because a “poor nickname builds good character.” 
The former Mr. Smith says he faced a Lane County judge who ques-
Elizabeth Nuter  Patrick Gill  Nick Brandt  Kirsten Adam  Elizabeth Davis  Katie Corr  
freshman  junior  junior  junior  junior  senior  
McGlinn  Alumni  Stanford  Welsh Family  Lyons  off campus  

“Let’s make it “Fire. I’m a “Death by “Let’s go with “Snow. For “Trick question. 
fire, since I’m California boy.” Malcolm fire. The colors sure.” I prefer to live.” 
already dying Phelan.” are prettier.” 
of snow.” 


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

tioned his seriousness. The judge that granted the request made him swear he wasn’t changing his name for fraudulent rea­sons. 
Awesome says that judge also allowed him to sign his name as a right arrow, a smiley face and a left arrow. 
Utah lottery winners keep ticket in safe 
BOISE, Idaho — A family holding an Idaho Lottery ticket worth $1 million was­n’t taking any chances while traveling from their home in Brigham City, Utah,to claim their winnings in Boise. 
Sisters Cindy Flint and Carol Olsen, along with their mother Donna Flint, made the nearly 300-mile trip to Idaho with their ticket locked in a fireproof safe. 
Cindy Flint says she went a step further, and slept with the safe in her hotel bed. 
The women claimed their prize Monday. 
Lottery spokesman David Workman says other win­ners have taken precau­tions, but the Flint family may be the first to arrive in lobby of the Idaho Lottery headquarters with a safe in tow. 
The women bought their ticket at a store in Franklin, Idaho, near the state border with Utah. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 
The seminar “Surge, Waves, and Damage during Hurricane Ike” will take place today at 11 
a.m. in Fitzpatrick Hall Room 
258. Andrew Kennedy, assis­tant professor of civil engineer­ing and geological sciences, will present this installment of the Environmental Fluid Dynamics Seminar Series. 
Keough Hall will sponsor a blood drive today from 11 


a.m. until 5 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 
The lecture “Democracy without Accountability: Party Powersharing and Executive Domineering in Indonesia” will take place today at 12:30 
p.m. 
in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. It is free and open to the public. 

The seminar “Blood-material Interactions of Polyurethanes” will take place today at 3:30 

p.m. 
in DeBartolo Hall Room 


138. Stuart Cooper, professor of chemical and biomolecular engineering at The Ohio State University, will speak. 
The 2010 Schmitt Lecture: “Abuses of the Public by Psychiatry” will take place today at 4 p.m. in the McKenna Hall Auditorium. Dr. Paul McHugh of Johns Hopkins University will speak. The lecture is free and open to the public. 
The seminar “The Ethics of Spying: How Far Are We Willing to Go?” will take place today at 5 p.m. in the Geddes Hall auditorium. CIA officer James Olson will speak. The seminar is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
CORRECTIONS 

In the Dec. 6 issue of The Observer, the Notre Dame women’s soccer team’s College Cup semifinal opponent was misidentified in the article "'Not an upset.'" Notre Dame defeated Ohio State, 1-0, on 


24 21 HIGH 2430 3332
Friday to advance to the national championship game. The Observer regrets this error. 
17 19 LOW 1528 1723 






Tuesday, December 7, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Groupdiscussesalcoholicenergydrinks 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
At Monday’s Campus Life Council (CLC) meeting, members discussed a memo presented by Brian Coughlin, assistant vice president for student activi­ties and head of the recent-ly-assembled Alcohol Energy Drink (AED) Working Group. 
The memo discussed the progress of the group in responding to issues related to student use of caffeinated alcoholic beverages. 
The memo stated that, while the FDA and other governmental agencies have already taken steps to limit 
or 
ban the popular Four Loko and Joose drinks, AEDs are still a concern because “some students may still have ‘original’ formula AEDs and/or some students may attempt to make their 

own 
should the pre -pack ­aged products no longer be available.” 


The memo went on to say the group has not yet decid­ed upon a recommendation to give Fr. Tom Doyle, vice president for student affairs. It has considered three options: banning AEDs across campus, leaving the issue to the discretion of individual rectors, and establishing no formal poli­cy. 
The group did, however, indicate it would make con­tinued efforts to increase awareness about the effects of AEDs to students, an idea that Knott Hall senator Alex Kasparie thought would be more effective than a ban. 
“I think the biggest thing is the education. I hate to say it, but usually I take a ban as a challenge,” he said. 
“No ban is going  to  change  
the attitude.”  
C L C  m e m b e r B e n  N o e ,  a  

sophomore, suggested emphasizing the fact that AEDs are extremely high in calories as a way to deter students from consuming them. 
“We thought it would be pertinent to Notre Dame students who seem to be particularly health con ­scious,” he said. “Not only that these drinks are dan­gerous, but also that they are unhealthy for you calo­rie-wise.” 
Christopher Haug, assis ­tant director for residence life and housing, thought raising this point with stu­dents could lead to other unhealthy behavior. 
“Unfortunately, one of the things we found out across the country is that people do know that, so sometimes they won’t eat dinner and will drink the Four Loko,” he said. “Then they’ll have nothing to metabolize the alcohol with.” 
Noe went on to say that the availability and con ­sumption of non -alcoholic energy drinks on campus is a concern within itself. Julia Sutton, SUB director, said the University could only go so far in managing students’ decisions. 
“Can’t anything be harm­ful if overused?” she said. “I think the University can’t go that far. You can ’t take energy drinks out of The Huddle unless you take Burger King out.” 
Student body vice presi­dent Andrew Bell highlight­ed the aspects of alcohol education that his culture shift task force, which is examining drinking at Notre Dame, plans to address specifically. 
“One of the things is the continuous education, that it’s not just overload during your first months at school,” he said. 
Bell said educating stu ­dents about Indiana-specific alcohol laws, increasing stu­dent-led alcohol education, and informing students how to help a friend in a danger­ous situation will be empha­sized in the future. 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
Saint Mary’s to host blood drive 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
By donating about an hour of time and a pint of blood, stu­dents, faculty and staff of Saint Mary’s College can help those in need, Olivia Barzydlo Critchlow, assistant director of the Office for Civic and Social Engagement (OCSE) said. 
The College will hold an American Red Cross blood drive Wednesday from 12 to 6 p.m. in the Earley Conference Rooms in the Student Center basement. 
“Blood drives are a very impor­tant way for individuals to give back to their community,” Critchlow said. “There is always a need for blood, and what better way could you think of giving to someone during the holiday sea­son than to donate blood to pos­sibly save a life?” 
Critchlow said the College holds four blood drives each aca­demic year. 
“As [blood] cannot be manu­factured, the only place to get it for those in need is from healthy donors. I believe that if someone is able to donate blood they should definitely consider doing it as it truly does save lives,” she said. 
Critchlow said the entire donating process takes about an hour. Donors must answer screening questions before they donate. They will then have their blood pressure, temperature, pulse and iron levels tested. 
According to Critchlow, the actual donation time is around 10 minutes. Donors are asked to stay for around 10 to 15 minutes to rest and eat snacks after dona­tion. 
Critchlow encouraged students to try giving blood even if they are afraid. 
“Give it a try, even if it’s just once,” she said. “It’s definitely not as bad as you may think, and the staff from the Red Cross is excellent at working with those who are donating for the first time.” 
If students do not wish to donate blood but still wish to vol­unteer, Critchlow said there are other ways to help with the blood drive. 
“Volunteers are needed to help staff the check-in table as well as the refreshments table,” she said. 
According to an e-mail sent to theSaint Mary’s community, stu­dents, faculty and staff can sign up for a donation appointment by visiting givelife.org with the sponsor code of smcnd. 
“Blood is always needed,” Critchlow said. “Please consider giving something incredibly spe­cial to those in need during this holiday season.” 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, December 7, 2010 
Hall raises funds for homeless center 

By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
McCandless Hall is using some Christmas cheer and a little competition to help raise funds for Hope Ministries, a homeless center in South Bend. 
For members of McCandless to participate, they can go to the hall’s front desk and place their donations into boxes. 
“At the front desk there is another table decorated for Christmas and it contains four wrapped Christmas presents,” said junior Caitlin Ascherl, a resident advisor in the dorm. “The presents are numbered for each floor in McCandless.” 
According to Ascherl, the floor in McCandless that man­ages to collect the most funds gets a special treat. 
“The floor that raises the most money for Hope Ministries gets to ‘pie’ their resident advisor [in the face] at the Hall Christmas Party this week,” she said. 
Ascherl said she came up with the idea because she wanted residents to work together and support Hope Ministries. 
“I came up with the idea while trying to think of ways to get the first-years involved and excited about the Hall,” Ascherl said. 
Each dormitory at Saint Mary’s is assigned a service organization, and Hope Ministries was given to McCandless. Ascherl said each semester the dorm needs to hold an event for the place it represents, and she said this seemed like a good way to bring the hall together. 
“[The Hall is] required to do one event for or with our serv­ice organization per semester,” Ascherl said. “What better way to create section unity then to come together against the RAs.” 
They do not know how much money they have raised so far, but Ascherl said it will be counted Wednesday. If the entire dorm raises over $100, there is extra incentive for the residents. 
“We find out Wednesday when a neutral party counts the money,” she said. “If it is over $100, the Hall Director gets [a pie in the face] as well.” 
According to Ascherl, the fundraiser has gotten competi­tive between the RAs on differ­ent floors. Currently, she said it “has become a war between the RAs.” 
Ascherl did say it seems like her floor is not doing as well. 
“Right now it doesn’t look good for the 2nd and 4th floors,” she said. “Sadly, I am on the 2nd floor.” 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
Award 
continued from page 1 
plans for a new St. Joseph’s High School, according to the press release. 
“Each of the projects cited in the award is beneficial in its own right — supporting eco­nomic development, retail and entertainment options, health care, housing and education — and are indicative of the University’s ongoing commit­ment to being a positive force within our community,” Brown said. “When the public and pri­vate sectors work together for the common good, great things can and do happen.” 
Sexton said the cities are cate­gorized by population size, and the winning of such an award is a significant event. 
“It’s a national award,” Sexton said. “Any time you are recog­nized nationally, you feel the prestige.” 
Sexton said he thinks South Bend won the award because it has strong partnerships, which includes its work with Notre Dame. 
“[The city won because of] focus and collaboration,” he said. “The different funding partners, the residents all com­ing together. It’s partnership.” 
Sexton said efforts to improve the Northeast Neighborhood area will continue at least into the next several years, if not beyond. Sixty homes are cur­rently planned for construction near the Robinson Community Learning Center, as well as some rerouting on State Route 23 and plans to continue Eddy Street revitalization south. 
“There will be a flurry of activity over the next five years,” Sexton said. 
Brown said University part­nership with South Bend is not something new with Innovation Park and the Eddy Street revi­talizations. 
“There is a long history of Notre Dame and South Bend working together — the Center for the Homeless and the Robinson Community Learning Center are two well-known examples — and we certainly have every intention of continu­ing to collaborate in the future,” he said. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
Google 
continued from page 1 
why it’s essentially happening all in one day here at Notre Dame.” 
Rose said the change would most affect students who have signed up for commercial Google accounts using their Notre Dame G-mail address. 
“There are approximately 3,600 that have conflict accounts. That means they made a commercial Google account with an ‘nd.edu,’” she said. “They need to take some steps to prevent problems. They won’t lose data, but they need to tie it with a different account.” 
Rose said students who received an e-mail on their conflict account follow the directions provided to ensure a smooth transition. 
OIT will adjust the system Dec. 21 to include the new services. Rose said they planned to make the change at this time to avoid conflicts with finals and the new semester in January. 
Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 

Tuesday, December 7, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
It’s important that students take the process extremely 
CIF 



continued from page 1 
He said that decline was alarming for the University because a high percentage of students must complete the CIF to accurately reflect students’ opinions. 
“We talked to the Academic Affairs Committee of Student Senate, we had focus groups with the students to find out what incentives would be of the greatest influence on whether they took the time to fill out the CIF,” Jacobs said. 
Students who complete their CIFs are able to access an additional feature of InsideND’s class search, the registrar’s Web-based applica­tion that allows students to see classes. 
“Five questions of the CIF were designed by students, and the data that comes from those is then shared with students through class search,” Jacobs said. 
Considering the current CIF response rate and the legitima­cy of the site, Jacobs said the class search is much more accurate than other websites students use to learn about professors, such as ndtoday.com or ratemyprofes­sor.com. 
“I would hope students con­sider the class search tool to be a more reliable source of information than third-party websites,” Jacobs said. 
CIFs are especially important for graduate students and fac­ulty. Monique Gregg, a doctor­al candidate in the Department of Sociology, said she will rely on CIFs from this semester to further her career. 
“Students don’t typically understand the importance of CIFs, especially to grad stu­dents,” Gregg said. “We have to use them to apply for jobs. 
seriously.” 
Gregg, who will be using her CIFs to apply not only for jobs but also for teaching awards at Notre Dame, said professors take the CIFs seriously. 
“It’s important to know whether or not the course was challenging, what the profes­sor did right, where the profes­sor can improve,” Gregg said. 
Jacobs, who teaches in the College of Science, agreed with Gregg. 
“If I tried a different approach I want to hear from students whether that was effective,” Jacobs said. “Should I continue that approach, should I improve upon it, should I discard it?” 
The CIF forms also influence tenure and promotion, Jacobs said. Although factors such as a professor’s research and scholarship are considered, teaching is looked at very seri­ously. 
“We need to establish whether they are in fact an effective teacher,” Jacobs said. “There are standards of excel­lence that the department tries to apply to the professor.” 
Although the CIFs for some courses open at different times, most are currently available online. Adam Pierson, the University’s strate­gic planning program director, said alerting students to the availability of the CIFs is important. 
“We try our best, we send out e-mails, although we don’t know how many students actu­ally read them,” Pierson said. “This year we worked with stu­dent government to coordinate table tents.” 
Pierson said the CIFs for most courses will close Thursday at 11:59 p.m. 
Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 
St. Nick 
continued from page 1 
Nicholas is second only to the Virgin Mary as the most popular namesake for churches worldwide, and is an especially popular patron in Eastern Europe and Russia. 
Saint Nicholas lived as a bishop in Myra, which is pres­ent -day Southern Turkey, during the fourth century, Ayo said. Ruins of a church for Saint Nicholas have been found in this area, as well as several early churches in Constantinople. 
Ayo said the tradition of referring to Saint Nicholas as Santa Claus began in New York. Dutch Protestants in New York referred to Saint Nicholas as “Sinter Klaas,” which became “Santa Claus” over the years. 
Clement Clarke Moore, the son of an Episcopalian bishop in New York City, wrote the poem “’Twas the Night Before Christmas” on an envelope for his children, Ayo said. A guest staying in their home found the poem and submitted it to a newspaper in Troy, N.Y. Ayo said the poem immortalized the iconic American image of Santa Claus as a jolly old man dressed in red and bearing a sack of gifts. 
The idea of Santa Claus coming only to those people who are good does not fit with Saint Nicholas’ own spir­it of giving, Ayo said. 
“Saint Nicholas’ generosity was meant to serve as a reminder that your family loves you, the Church loves you, no matter who you are or what you have done,” he said. 
There are many legends about Saint Nicholas’ gener­ous spirit, but Ayo said his favorite involves a father who could not afford dowries for his three daughters. Each night for three nights, a bag of gold was thrown down his chimney. On the third night, the father went outside to find the giver and found Saint Nicholas, who was bishop at the time. Wanting his good works to remain anonymous, Saint Nicholas made the father promise to tell no one it had been him. 
These stories circulated in oral tradition for centuries before they were recorded, Ayo said. For this reason, they maintain imaginative tones. 
“These are wonderful leg­ends, almost fairy tales nobody knows,” Ayo said. 
Because of these stories, Ayo said researching Saint Nicholas is enjoyable. 
“Legends tell you what the human heart wants, ” Ayo said. “Santa Claus tells you what children and families want, and that is gratuitous giving. The story of Saint Nicholas tells you the way humans’ hearts are made, and what their needs are. For that reason, I hope we never lose it.” 
Contact Nora Kenney at hkenney@nd.edu 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Tuesday, December 7, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Jimmy Wales: 
Will stare at 
you for food 
In case no one has noticed yet, for the past few weeks, Wikipedia has been flooded by dramatic life-size banner ads featuring founder Jimmy Wales’ terrify­ingly temple-veined yet endearingly squinty face and personal plea for donations. 
Because Wikipedia is entirely free to users, free of adver­tisements and free of sponsorships, the site needs donations to keep running. Wikimedia, the Alex Kilpatrick charity that runs the non-profit site, 

Assistant 
is dependent on 

Scene Editor 
donations to help with the $10 million per year cost of running Wikipedia. In lieu of running ads from the plethora of multi-national organizations that would love to be seen showing their support for Wikipedia, Wikimedia has been running a Christmas time appeal for donations every year for the past six years. This year, the charity hopes to raise $7.5 mil­lion. 
As for the effectiveness of Wikimedia’s various fundraising campaigns, the Jimmy Wales personal appeal is the most successful yet, most likely because the gigantic ad is so in-your-face (no pun intended). The appeal rakes in more than $47,000 a day, 15 times as many donations as the next most effective fundraiser, a campaign that read, “Admit it — without Wikipedia you could never have finished that report!” and reeled in a mere $3,000 a day. The “Thanks for the brain massage” dona­tion ad resulted in only 19 total dona­tions. 
Even “Please read: A personal appeal from Wikipedia Founder Jimmy Wales” tests significantly better in terms of click-through rates and daily donations than “A personal appeal from Wikipedia Founder Jimmy Wales” without the “Please read.” The “Please read” makes Wales’ call for money seem both more polite and urgent than it actually is. 
Here are just a few of the reasons you should donate money to Wikipedia, also known as Jimmy Wales and friends. 
u Jimmy Wales will not stop staring at you through your computer screen until Wikimedia raises the expected $7.5 million. 
u The “Phone a Friend” option on “Who Wants To Be A Millionaire” will not maintain the same respect and recognition once the caller’s friend loses the resource for looking up trivial infor­mation. 
u Why would you want to donate to a legitimate charity, like St. Jude’s or Partners in Health, when you could send your funds Jimmy Wales’ way this Christmas? 
u Someone needs to give Jimmy Wales some money and soon so that he can afford to eat three full meals a day and shave on a regular basis. 
u Jimmy Wales also needs the money to spend on more headshots. 

So there you have it. If you have any doubt in your mind as to whether you should donate to Wikipedia, just take another look at Jimmy Wales’ banner ad and you’ll want to donate immediately. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Alex Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 
Enlightenment 

The economic and social framework of the modern state — valorized as the very condition of human freedom — renders inescapable certain forms of manipula­tion: The free laborer, no longer a serf, can now give of himself without his lord having any obligation to ensure his welfare; the criminal, no longer tortured, is now imprisoned until he demonstrates his eagerness to serve the society that has 

Dan Sportiello 
chained him. One tends to think of 
Bound 
these economic 
Variables 

and social reforms as gestures of humanity, not manipulation — and yet it is not coincidental that the free laborer is one who can work in whichever task the capitalist most needs him, that the reformed prisoner is one who can return to the capitalist the resources that were spent on his rehabilitation. Wage slavery is far more profitable than chattel slavery, rehabilitation far more profitable than retribution. 
These are not, in themselves, new points: Marx and Foucault spoke of them long ago. There is the perennial danger, however, that they will be either overstat­ed or understated. It would be overstate­ment to suppose that these reforms were entirely negative changes — for freedom is better than serfdom, rehabilitation bet­ter than retribution. Civilization ought not go back, even if this was somehow possi­ble. And it would be a gross overstate­ment to suppose that these reforms were motivated entirely by the avarice of the wealthy and powerful — and not, as they claimed during their Enlightenment, by their humanism, their compassion: The greatest figures of the Enlightenment — individuals like Locke and Kant — were not only brilliant but also impossibly noble. Our criticism of them is worthless if it is not born of awe. 
It would be an understatement, on the other hand, to suppose that the economic and social framework of the modern state has had a great impact upon our lives: Though few are eager to admit it, late modern capitalism has instrumentalized all things by giving them prices in the 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
market — and we ourselves are no excep­tion, as the statistical character of state economic, military and public health cal­culation makes clear. Though few are eager to admit it, schools, hospitals, facto­ries, offices and militaries have followed the model of the prison, tightly regiment­ing the lives of all citizens — building what Foucault calls the “panoptic” civil society that, through constant vigilance, forces its members into compliance with the practices that, directly or indirectly, serve the survival of the state. And, indeed, it is not coincidental that in the centuries after the Enlightenment, Western societies came to dominate utter­ly their non-Western rivals — economical­ly, scientifically and eventually militarily. This domination has eroded, it seems, only to the extent that those non-Western societies have adopted the Western model 
— that is, the economic and social frame­work of the modern state. 
The contrast between the economic and social reforms — between absolute free­dom in the economic sphere and absolute discipline in the moral sphere — is the paradox at the heart of modern state: The tremendous productivity of free-market capitalism presupposes an absolute respect for property and contracts that must be indoctrinated by the panoptic civil society, while the tremendous resources required for said indoctrina­tion, which requires public schools, pris­ons and so on, can only be supplied, in the long run, by the tremendous productivity of free-market capitalism. Limitless desire is directed down the narrowest of chan­nels that are theoretically infinite; in prac­tice, however, it was only a matter of time before said desire burst its banks and the mill of economic progress ground to a halt. This, one among the several “cultur­al contradictions of capitalism,” is not a new point either. Hösle spoke of it in the wake of our current stagnation. 
This is not, of course, the only paradox at the heart of the modern state. But it is certainly the most obvious. Equally obvi­ous is the dilemma that it presents: it is unclear how it is to be rectified, or even whether it can be rectified. Williams com­pares the modern state, based on free labor, to the ancient state, based on slav­ery — for both are ultimately forms of manipulation: “Most people were no doubt disposed to think that [slavery] was ‘natural’ just in the sense that the best development of social life required it, but few thought that it was natural … with regard to the ways in which the role was allocated.” Just as there were systematic evils in the ancient state — for no one deserves to be a slave, obviously — so are there systematic evils in its modern coun­terpart — for we must navigate, some­how, a merciless economic order even as the panoptic civil society chains us in a way almost beyond endurance. It is not coincidental that Foucault calls our socie­ty “carceral.” But just as the ancients saw no way to eliminate their brand of system­atic injustice — and indeed, before the industrial revolution, it seems that there was none — we moderns see no way to eliminate ours. The only apparent alter­native, communism, proved worse than farcical, eviscerating its own body politic before hemorrhaging to death. Capitalism is our only live option. 
What is different between the ancient state and the modern state, however, is that the modern feels compelled to find and to mitigate, insofar as it can, system­atic injustice within itself. While necessity and luck, as Williams reminds us, will for­ever serve to render unequal those who are otherwise equal, “liberalism demands — more realistically speaking, it hopes — that those concepts, necessity and luck, should not take the place of considera­tions of justice. If an individual’s place in society is to be determined by forces of economic and cultural necessity and by that individual’s luck, and if, in particular, those elements are going to determine the extent to which he or she is to be (effec­tively, if not by overt coercion) in the power of others, then the hope is that all this should happen within the framework of institutions that guarantee the justice of these processes and of their outcome.” In the darkness of the night, far from Enlightenment and its noble intentions, the prospects for this task look grim indeed. Whether this view is that of hon­esty or despair remains, as always, unclear. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his third year in the philosophy Ph.D. program. Listen to his radio show on Thursdays at 2 p.m. on WVFI. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“An artist’s only concern is to shoot
for some kind of perfection, and on
his own terms, not anyone else’s.” 
J.D. Salinger 
U.S. novelist & short story author 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The test of a first-rate intelligenceis the ability to hold two opposedideas in the mind at the same time, and still retain the ability tofunction.” 
F. Scott Fitzgerald
U.S. novelist 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, December 7, 2010 page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Kudos to the Glee Club 
Dear Notre Dame Glee Club, 

You’ll never know how much your performance last Wednesday evening at Dujarie House meant to the folks of Holy Cross Village, many of whom would not be able to get out to witness a Glee Club performance. What a treat it was for the residents of Dujarie and Schubert Villa to be serenaded by this group of talented and enthusias­tic young men. Your willingness to share your time and talent is truly representative of the Notre Dame spirit and the spirit of Christmas. Thank you for giving of your­selves and for getting the holiday season off to a great start for the many folks who came to hear you sing. 
Gratefully, 

Holy Cross Life Enrichment Staff 
Holy Cross Village Retirement Home Dec. 4 
UWIRE 

It’s not complicated. Tax or cut. Pick one. 
When did spend and tax become just spend? Somewhere between Social Security and health care reform, Congressional leaders, fearing public backlash, continued to pass legislation in the name of 
Editorial Board
social welfare, failing to account 

The Daily Forty-
for appropriate 

Niner 
funds. 

A little debt is OK — even the most responsible among us carry a credit card — but the thought of more American debt just sounds ludi­crous. As of Sept. 30, the U.S. is $13.56 trillion in debt. That’s six percent less than what our country produces yearly in goods and services. Not cool. In fact, the Government Accountability Office, an auxiliary of U.S. Congress, estimates that somewhere between 2030 and 2040 mandatory spending will exceed govern­ment revenue. 
So why are we talking about all this? The Bush Tax cuts. No, we’re not against them. The Daily 49er published an edito­rial supporting cuts for the middle class earlier this semester. What we are against is fiscal irresponsibility: the mis­management of funds that will lead to steeper recessions in the future. 
According to the Wall Street Journal, there are rumblings in Congress about passing legislation that would both raise our country’s debt ceiling and extend the tax cuts. Apparently, Obama administra­tion officials and congressional Democrats and Republicans feel this may be a viable way to extend the Bush tax cuts. 
The issue with this is not so much fis­cal as it is philosophical. The tax cuts will be extended — the American middle class cannot afford a tax increase and Republicans will not extend the cuts unless they are extended for the wealthy as a well. Our country’s debt ceiling is raised seemingly every year — so this is nothing new. It’s just the idea of packag­ing a debt increase with a tax cut that irks us. After all, this package would really capture the spirit of Congress, wouldn’t it? 
If Congressional leaders feel the will of the people is to spend, let them spend, but they should tax appropriately. If Congressional leaders feel the will of the people is to cut taxes, let them cut taxes, but they should spend appropriately. 
Taxing and spending is a two-way street whether you are a Republican or a Democrat. 
Unaware of this two-way relationship, congressmen might ask how else to extend the tax cuts? Cut spending, we would respond, now aware of congres­sional irresponsibility. 
Some may argue for complexity citing anyone from John Keynes to Adam Smith, and they are right; the complexity of economics can’t be argued in a 500­word editorial, but when it comes to prosperity, no one would rightly disagree with fiscal responsibility. 
A balanced budget is nowhere near as important to anyone in this country as it is to a college student. Long after Bill Clinton, George W. Bush and Barack Obama, this country’s college students will be around facing the consequences of their economic decisions. If anyone should be worried about 2040, it’s us. 
Cutting programs or raising taxes is hard, but in the harsh reality of this world one or the other has to be done. Otherwise, the buck is just being passed. And trust us, we say college students are in enough debt. 
This column first appeared in the Dec. 6 edition of the The Daily Forty-Niner, the publication serving the California State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Want to release some stress? 
Write a Letter to the Editor. 
I survived the snowball fight 
Oh what a beautiful sight it was. White snow flying about, people being hit, snowballs being thrown — what more could you ask for? I had gathered my snow and moved to the front lines, and I threw my fair share of snowballs. My friend got nailed in the face and went back to the dorm, but I continued to fight on. 
Then it happened. I got hit in the face for the fifth and final time. I staggered back to Dillon and was proceeded to be asked if I were high because of how red my eyes were. For some reason, instead of form­ing two sides (the side closer to God Quad and the side closer to Alumni Hall), there was a third side. These people stood on Alumni’s turf and were throwing snowballs at the people in the middle of South Quad where I stood. In effect, I was caught in the crossfire. 
However, I am not angry. The thrill of a snowball fight is seeing a man go down from a low blow or seeing him crouch over in pain from a shot to the face. Rather, I am thrilled that I survived. After all, it’s just for fun. 
Sean Fitzgerald 
freshman Dillon Hall Dec. 6 
Saint Mary’s library hours 
This letter is being written at 4:50 p.m. on Saturday, Dec. 4. I was sitting in the library diligently working on a research paper only to be interrupted by an announcement saying that the library is closing in 10 minutes. I feel that 5 p.m. is unreasonably early to close on a Saturday. Yes, the weekend is a time to go out with friends, but before I do so, I would still like to get work done for the coming week. 
Because I am in the Notre Dame marching band, this is one of the only free Saturdays that I am given during the semester. And I cur­rently feel penalized for sleeping in, having to go to a close friend’s grandmother’s funeral today and not getting to the library until 3 p.m. I’m not asking for the library to stay open 24 hours a day or even until midnight. I’m just asking for you to have reasonable hours on the weekends that extend beyond 5 p.m. that will allow me to get work done. 
Rachael Givens 
junior 
LeMans Hall 
Dec. 6 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Tuesday, December 7, 2010 

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Tuesday, December 7, 2010 page 9 

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

Tuesday, December 7, 2010 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS page 10 
NFL 

Amid controversy, Broncos fire head coach McDaniels 
Associated Press 
ENGLEWOOD, Colo. — The Denver Broncos have fired coach Josh McDaniels, whose nearly two -year stint was marred by the Spygate II videotape scandal, a series of personnel blunders and the franchise's worst skid in four decades. 
There was no immediate word on who will succeed McDaniels, 34, whose hiring by team owner Pat Bowlen in January 2009 is now viewed as a monumental mistake. 
Team spokesman Patrick Smyth told The Associated Press: “We can confirm that coach Josh McDaniels has been relieved of his head coaching duties.” 
The Broncos planned news conferences for Tuesday. A message left with Broncos chief operating officer Joe Ellis wasn't returned. 
Players didn 't know of McDaniels' firing when they left team headquarters after a conditioning run ended at 3 
p.m. Shortly after that, McDaniels met with Bowlen and was fired with two years left on his contract. 
McDaniels then met with his assistants. He didn't return a message left by the AP seek­ing comment. 
McDaniels had nearly $7 million left on his contract, and Bowlen is still on the hook for millions more he owes Mike Shanahan, whom he fired last year. That means he'll be paying three head coaches next season. 
After winning his first six games his rookie season, McDaniels, a disciple of New England coach Bill Belichick, lost 17 of his last 22 games with the Broncos in his first NFL head coaching job. 
He had plenty of off-the­field issues, too, including the videotaping violation and linebacker D.J. Williams' drunken driving charge that caused him to get stripped of his captaincy. 
Before he was fired Monday, McDaniels said he was reticent to turn to rookie Tim Tebow even though the Broncos (3-9) had been elimi­nated from contention with a 10-6 loss at Kansas City, their seventh loss in eight games. 
“Well, I think Kyle Orton's had a good year,” McDaniels said of his starter. 
McDaniels made a series of personnel decisions that backfired, notably trading away Peyton Hillis, who has become a power running back in Cleveland, and he also was fined $50,000 by the NFL for failing to report a subordinate who violated league rules by videotaping a San Francisco 49ers practice in London on Oct. 30. 
A week ago, Bowlen issued a statement that said McDaniels would be evaluat­ed at season's end just an hour after telling AOL FanHouse, “I'm not interested in making a coaching change" despite the team's slide, and the embarrassing videotaping scandal that has rocked the once-proud franchise.” 
There were also reports that during a confidential staff meeting last week he had minimized the scope of the Broncos ' videotaping scandal relative to New England's Spygate, where an NFL investigation found sys­temic videotaping of oppo­nents and levied heavy penal­ties. 
Last week, McDaniels said his staff meetings are sup­posed to be confidential but that he didn 't think his coaching staff was splintered and he said he thought his assistants remained loyal. 
Although the Broncos haven't been to the playoffs since 2006, Bowlen has never in his 27 years as owner had a team dealing with the dou­ble-whammy of front office and on-field issues like he does now. 
The Broncos have usually been competitive into December even in their down years. 
The franchise was busted for salary cap violations dur­ing its Super Bowl years in the late 1990s, but while there was some outrage around the league, there were no calls for Shanahan's ouster or fans voicing their discontent by bolting the sta-dium early or leaving seats empty altogether. 

With thousands of empty seats at their last home game, the Broncos didn 't announce actual attendance but only paid attendance, which at 72,736 was the low­est since Invesco Field opened a decade ago. By the time the Broncos ' fourth ­quarter rally fell one drive short in their 36-33 loss to St. Louis, most of the seats were empty. 
MLB 

Red Sox acquire all-star Gonzalez from Padres 
Yankees general manager Brian Diego, Gonzalez has 161 homers Glover. years ago, Boston was in the 
Associated Press 

Cashman said. “They just obvi-and 501 RBIs. Including parts of Hoyer, who previously worked mix to sign star first baseman 
BOSTON — Adrian Gonzalez ously improved themselves in a two seasons with Texas, he has for the Red Sox under Epstein, Mark Teixeira, who wound up put on a Red Sox jersey for the significant way. He’s one of the 168 homers and 525 RBIs. He said the Padres were sure they going to New York. first time and immediately said premier players in that position hit .298 with 31 homers and wouldn’t have been able to sign Gonzalez had surgery to clean what the Fenway faithful want-in the game.” 101 RBIs last season. Gonzalez after next year. Rather up the labrum in his non-throw­ed to hear. Gonzalez is entering the last Gonzalez’s lefty swings put up than risk waiting for a deal next ing right shoulder on Oct. 20, 
“I’m very excited to be in year of his contract in 2011 and big numbers despite him play-summer, Hoyer said San Diego but he said Monday he’s ahead Boston and ready to beat the is due $6.3 million next year. ing at pitcher-oriented Petco decided to make a move now. of schedule and expects to be Yanks,” he pronounced Monday. Although the trade does not Park. “There’s plenty of examples of ready for opening day. 
The Red Sox completed their include a contract extension, “I think he’s going to be a trades at the deadline where a “I’m very excited to start this deal for the All-Star first base-Epstein said he’s “confident” a monster in Fenway Park,” team didn’t get nearly what they new phase and look forward to man, acquiring the slugger from contract will be worked out. Padres general manager Jed thought they’d get simply a lot of world championships,” the San Diego Padres for three “We’re going to try to get Hoyer said at baseball’s winter because the market didn’t he said. prospects and a player to be something so he will be here for meetings in Lake Buena Vista, develop or because of injuries,” Gonzalez, donning a Boston named. a very long time,” said John Fla. Hoyer said. “With that in mind, I jersey without a number, said 
“We’re thrilled to be able to Boggs, Gonzalez’s agent. Epstein, too, predicts Gonzalez felt like this was the right time the Red Sox have always been make this trade,” Red Sox gen-The absence of an announced will quickly take aim at the to do it.” his favorite American League eral manager Theo Epstein said. extension could prompt calls to Green Monster in left field. Hoyer said at least three team, in part because of Boston 
Boston sent minor league the commissioner’s office — “We think he is going to wear teams were showing serious icon and Hall of Famer Ted right-hander Casey Kelly, first maybe from the New York the wall out,” Epstein said. interest in getting Gonzalez. He Williams — like Gonzalez, baseman Anthony Rizzo and Yankees — for an investigation. The Red Sox made a run at said Epstein, his pal, had been Williams was a left-hander and outfielder Reymond Fuentes to If an extension isn’t formalized Gonzalez before the 2009 trad-“calling me more often than San Diego native. San Diego. until after opening day, it ing deadline and again last sea-usual.” Epstein said the Red Sox had 
“It makes them a great team. wouldn’t count against the Red son, Epstein said. Gonzalez has For the Red Sox, the trade admired Gonzalez since his days He’s a heck of a hitter. That’s a Sox for the 2011 luxury tax. been an All-Star the last three allows them to play a little catch as an up-and-coming player for huge addition for Boston,” In five seasons with San years and is two-time Gold up with the Yankees. A couple of the Texas Rangers. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 

CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
FOR RENT 
6 Bedroom 2 Bath house available for 2011-12 school year. Close to campus -student rental area. Call for details 
574-329-3849 —————————————— 

PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, 
visit Notre Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu. ——————————————— UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Don't go it alone. 
Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. 
If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, 
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 
For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysup­port@nd.edu. ——————————————— Wanted: Catholic Priests. Needed to fill shortage, over 7 million open-ings.**Women need not apply. ——————————————— Michael: “It was on company prop­erty with company property. So double jeopardy, we’re fine.” 
Ryan: “I don’t think you understand how double jeopardy works.” 
Michael: “Oh, I’m sorry. What is ‘we’re fine?’” ——————————————— Ace Ventura: “Well, I'm not really ready for a relationship, Lois, but thank you for asking. Hey, maybe I'll give you a call sometime. Your number's still 911? All righty then.” ——————————————— 
Harry: “Yeah I called her up, she gave me a bunch of crap about me not listening to her, or something, I don’t know, I wasn’t really paying attention.” ——————————————— 
Kramer: “Do you have any conceiv­able reason for even getting up in the morning?" George: "I like to get the Daily News." ——————————————— 
Jerry: "Did you know that the origi­nal title for War and Peace was War, What Is It Good For?" ——————————————— 
Kramer: "They don't have a decent piece of fruit at the supermarket. The apples are mealy, the oranges are dry... I don't know what's going on with the papayas!" ——————————————— 
Jerry: "You know the message you're sending out to the world with these sweatpants? You're telling the world, 'I give up. I can't compete in normal society. I'm miserable, so I might as well be comfortable.'" ——————————————— 
Jerry: "Sometimes the road less traveled is less traveled for a rea­son." ——————————————— 

Tuesday, December 7, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 11 page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, December 7, 2010 

NBA 

NBA to buy Hornets, keep team in Big Easy 

Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS — The NBA’s decision to buy the New Orleans Hornets gives Louisiana the best opportunity to hold onto the franchise that moved there in 2002, league commissioner David Stern said Monday. 
Stern confirmed that the league is proceeding with a plan to buy the club from majority owner George Shinn and minority partner Gary Chouest, making the Hornets the first NBA-owned team. 
Shinn has been trying since last spring to sell the team to Chouest, but those negotia­tions had stalled, and Stern said Shinn’s urgency to sell his shares was increasing because he was accumulating debt at a rate he could not sustain. 
If the NBA had done noth­ing, Stern said, Shinn may have been inclined to take the next good offer he got, even if it came from a buyer that planned to move the team. 
The NBA has “the luxury of time to make these decisions,” Stern said. “So frankly, that was one of the best reasons for us to step forward, so that the luxury of time was on our side, that there didn’t have to be made a long-term decision on a very short framework with certain pressures. And we think we’ve eliminated the pressure.” 
However, Stern also made it clear that Louisiana politicians should be prepared to revisit the Hornets’ lease of the state-owned New Orleans Arena and the level of taxpayer-fund­ed inducements the club may receive in the future. 
Stern made an oblique refer­ence to the NFL’s New Orleans Saints, who since 2001 have negotiated inducements worth hundreds of millions of dol­lars. A recent deal even involved Saints owner Tom Benson buying a downtown high-rise with a guarantee that state agencies would lease office space at an above-market rate. 

“Whether you call it a lease or some additional arrange­ments that I think the state is probably familiar with in the context of a sport whose ball is shaped differently than ours, I think that the state will be a party along with the team and possibly the city to a broader deal,” Stern said. “It’s a fair issue, and the governor knows we’re coming.” 
Louisiana, like many states, is dealing with enormous budget cuts during the current economic recession. Gov. Bobby Jindal pledged to work with the NBA, but only within the state’s limits. 
“We have been talking to the team, the NBA, and potential buyers for some time now about keeping the Hornets in New Orleans,” said Jindal spokesman Kyle Plotkin. “We think the Hornets are a strong fit for New Orleans and we have discussed various cre­ative ideas to keep them in Louisiana. At the same time, we realize the state is facing budget challenges and we are not going to do anything that jeopardizes funding for higher education and health care.” 
The Hornets’ current lease, which already channels most arena advertising, parking and concession revenues to the team and leaves the state little more than what it needs for operating expenses, runs through 2014. 
However, the lease also includes an attendance clause that allows the Hornets to break the lease early if aver­age attendance falls below 14,735 during a two-year peri­od. 
Through 10 home games, average attendance this sea­son has been 13,865, raising the possibility that next two-year attendance benchmark could be missed by late January. 
If that happened, the club would have to notify the state of its intent to end the lease by March 31, 2011, but Stern stressed the NBA would not rush to get out of its lease. 
NHL 
Pens extend win streak to 10 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — Sidney Crosby scored a goal and set up another, and the Pittsburgh Penguins matched the second-longest winning streak in fran­chise history, winning their 10th in a row by beating the New Jersey Devils 2-1 on Monday night. 
Marc-Andre Fleury, 11-0-1 in his last 12 starts, made 27 saves as the Penguins matched a 10-game winning streak from Jan. 28-Feb. 15, 1999. Their only longer streak was an NHL-record, 17-game run from March 9-April 10, 1993, the season they failed to win a third consecutive Stanley Cup title. 
Crosby leads the NHL with 24 goals and 24 assists for 48 points. He failed to get a hat trick for the third consecutive home game, but has nine goals in five games and six in three games. 
Crosby’s 16-game scoring streak (18 goals, 15 assists) is the league’s longest this season and ties for the second longest of his career. He had a 19­game streak from Oct. 6-Nov. 17, 2007, but he already has three more points during this run. 
The Penguins won their sixth in a row at home despite going 0 for 6 on the power play, including a two-man advantage that lasted 34 seconds early in the third period. 
New Jersey (8-17-2) lost its fourth in five games despite Johan Hedberg’s 32 saves. The Devils won the Atlantic Division three of the last four seasons. 
Crosby broke a 1-all tie in the second period, following up shots from the points by Alex Goligoski and Chris Kunitz. Goligoski’s shot deflected to Crosby at the right side of the net, and his shot banked off defenseman Colin White’s stick and past Hedberg. 
Crosby missed a good chance for a second goal when his wrist shot struck the right post 
7:30 into the third period. Crosby took a hooking penalty three minutes later, but New Jersey didn’t score and finished 1 for 4 on the power play. 
Crosby set up Pittsburgh’s first goal, sailing a pass from along the left-wing boards to Chris Kunitz for a one-timer from the edge of the right circle at 15:41 of the first. Kunitz also assisted on Crosby’s goal. 
New Jersey, winless in six consecutive road games, had taken a 1-0 lead 1:21 before that on Brian Rolston’s first goal in 10 games. 
With Pittsburgh’s Pascal Dupuis off for hooking, Patrik Elias’ shot from the right point deflected off Rolston’s left wrist and fell to his feet, and Rolston lifted the puck inside the near post. Rolston clutched at his wrist as he celebrated his sec­ond goal. 


Tuesday, December 7, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, December 7, 2010 

Hawkeye 
continued from page 16 
was beneficial just to get a feel for what other times are out there beyond the Big East,” freshman Frank Dyer said. 
The team hoped to put up its fastest times of the year to close out the fall season before transitioning into a mid-season break and a very competitive 2011 season. 
“Coming into this meet we expected to have it be our fastest weekend of the year,” senior Peter Koppel said. “I think a lot of people still, though, exceeded their expec­tations.” 
The Irish began the weekend on Friday by finishing third in the 200-yard freestyle relay. Dyer led the day’s competition, posting a meet record of 
4:24.04 and earning first in the 500 free. Senior Mike Sullivan put up his best time of the year in the 200 individual medley with a mark of 1:50.85, good enough for second place 
The Irish also had success in the three-meter dive, with sen­ior Nathan Geary finishing third. Senior Eric Lex finished just behind Geary in fourth, and senior Wesley Villaflor and sophomore Ryan Koter earned fifth and sixth, respectively. 
“The divers did a great job,” Welsh said. “We count on our divers. I thought their per­formance was very strong throughout.” 
Lex earned a second medal on Saturday, earning third in the one-meter dive. Villaflor earned fifth, while Koter fin­ished seventh. 
Sullivan and Dyer continued their successful weekend on Saturday. Sullivan took home another second-place in the 400 individual medley, while Dyer earned second place in the 200 freestyle. 
On Sunday, the Irish cement­ed their second-place finish. Dyer earned fourth in the 100 freestyle and joined junior Marshall Sherman, sophomore John McGinley and senior Thomas Van Volkenburg for a fourth-place finish in the 400 freestyle relay. Freshman Joshua Choi finished sixth in the 200 breaststroke. 
The winning combination for Notre Dame stemmed from the experience of its seasoned swimmers and the enthusiasm of the freshmen. 
“The same combination of age and experience, youth and exuberance that we’ve been enjoying all year was here,” Welsh said. “The senior class was excellent, and there was the flat-out joy of the freshman class.” 
Given the many races over the course of the weekend, a number of Irish swimmers and divers had the opportunity to compete and all rose to the high level of the competition. 
“We had people step up into performance levels that they haven’t done before, that we haven’t seen before,” Welsh said. “The team feeds on that.” 
With a second-place finish under their belts, Notre Dame heads into a mid-season break before spending 10 days train­ing in San Juan, Puerto Rico, after Christmas. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
Belles 
continued from page 16 
in a championship final. She claimed sixth place in the 200-yard breaststroke with a time of 2:29.91. Dalrymple also took part in the A­team’s 200 medley relay, which, along with sopho­mores Katie Griffin and Genevieve Spittler and junior Katie Donovan, finished in 13th place with a time of 1:59.27. 
The relay B-team of fresh­men Katie Roddy, Theresa Bajorek and Sarah Thompson and sophomore Liz Litke finished next in 2:00.43. 
The 500 freestyle also fea­tured back-to-back finishes for the Belles, with junior Megan Price taking 13th with a time of 5:24.04 and sopho­more Ellie Watson finishing 14th in 5:24.80. 
The Belles now look for­ward to some time off before heading to Florida for a week of training from Jan. 7 to 14. The unique opportunity allows the team to train and focus entirely on getting in shape for the MIAA season. 
The next competition for Saint Mary’s comes Jan. 15at Rolfs Aquatic Center against conference foe Olivet. Races begin at 1 p.m. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 

Stauder 
continued from page 16 
in the C-final of the 100 breast­stroke, Casey earned ninth in the B-final of the 100-yard fly and Holden grabbed a fifth-place fin­ish in the C-final of the 100-yard fly. 
Stauder had another solid effort on Sunday, earning a first-place finish in the C-final of the 200-yard breaststroke. 
Casey said that the team’s strong showing at Nationals puts the team in position for success at the NCAA Championships. 
“Finishing third overall for women’s collegiate teams sets us up well for NCAA competition,” she said. “This gives us great momentum and positive attitudes going into conference which will ultimately lead to great swims to qualify us to NCAAs.” 
On the second day at the Hawkeye Invitational, Notre Dame earned two top-10 finishes in diving. In the 1-meter event, senior Heidi Grossman earned fifth with a score of 271.95, and sophomore Jenny Chiang 
(266.10) placed sixth. 
Next on the schedule for the Irish is a trip to Hawaii toward the tail end of the holiday break in order to train for the spring season. 
“We have two full weeks in Hawaii, so we will have time to get great training in as well as some fun,” Casey said. “Training in a warm and sunny environ­ment allows us to be happy while we are having really hard prac­tices. [The] training trip also gives us time to bond as a team in the pool and on the beach.” 
Notre Dame’s next competition will come during that trip, when the Irish face off against Hawaii in a dual meet Jan. 4. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 
NHL 

Couture scores two in Sharks win 
Associated Press 
DETROIT — Logan Couture scored twice, including the go-ahead goal 8 seconds after Niclas Wallin’s goal, to lift the San Jose Sharks to a 5-2 win over the Detroit Red Wings on Monday night. 
Tomas Holmstrom and Johan Franzen each had go-ahead goals in the first period, but the Western Conference-leading Red Wings couldn’t hold either lead. Joe Thornton made it 1-all late in the frame and Dany Heatley gave San Jose a two-goal lead late in the second. 
Couture sealed the victory in the third with his second goal. 
San Jose’s Antti Niemi made 25 saves. Jimmy Howard had 30 for Detroit, which fell to 10-2-2 at home. 
San Jose improved to 6-5-2 on the road and moved out of last place in Pacific Division. 
The Sharks, who jumped over Anaheim, have alternat­ed winning and losing for eight games. 
Detroit lost its previous game in overtime after win­ning four straight and nine of 11. 
The Red Wings’ only other loss in regulation at home was Oct. 28 against the Phoenix Coyotes. 


It looked as though they might roll to another win when Holmstrom was perched in front of the net and redi­rected Nicklas Lidstrom’s shot into the net during a power play 7:48 into the game. 
Thornton had scored only 
once in 15 games and had been held to one shot in three of four games before he put in a short-handed goal during on an odd-man rush with 4:01 left in the first. He was set up by a cross -ice pass from Heatley. 
Franzen finished a play in which each of Detroit’s five skaters touched the puck. The power-play goal put Detroit ahead 2-1 with 85 seconds remaining in the second. 


Tuesday, December 7, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Tuesday December 7, 2010 page 16 
MEN’S SWIMMING 

Making a splash 
Irish finish second in Hawkeye Invitational, post meet and personal bests in outing 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 

Sports Writer  
The Irish closed out the first  
half of their season with a  
strong finish at the Hawkeye  
Invitational, where Notre  
Dame finished second behind  
host Iowa. The three-day  
event saw the Irish rack up  
822 points, as they were aided  
by strong performances from a  
number of competitors.  
In their last meet of 2010,  
the Irish dominated the event  
across the board, posting sev­ 
eral meet and personal  
records in the process.  
“The depth of the team real­ 
ly resonated all weekend  
long,” Irish coach Tim Welsh  
said. “The meet was very  
strong for us.”  
The Invitational gave the  
Irish an opportunity to com­ 
pete against non-conference  
opponents Denver,  
Milwaukee, Green Bay, South  
Dakota and Ohio State were in  
attendance.  
“Racing some different  
teams from other conferences  COLEMAN COLLINS/The Observer  
Senior Peter Koppel dives into the water during a Jan. 16 matchup with Louisville in the Rolfs  
see HAWKEYE/page 14  Aquatic Center. Notre Dame fnished second at the Hawkeye Invitational over the weekend.  

SMC SWIMMING 
Invitational wraps up for Belles 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
The Belles wrapped up the Calvin College Winter Invitational on Saturday, fin­ishing in ninth place behind a competitive field of swimmers. The three-day event featured eight programs, each bringing an A, B and C team, with the exception of Saint Mary’s and Valparaiso. 
The competitors hailed from NCAA Divisions I, II and III, with Grand Valley State, the top-ranked women’s swim­ming and diving team in Division II, easily claiming the victory. The Lakers earned 1,223 points, while second-place Calvin, an MIAA rival of the Belles, finished with 549 points. 
Quickly becoming the most consistent performer for Belles coach Mark Benishek, junior Audrey Dalrymple was the lone Belle to earn a spot 
see BELLES/page 14 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Saint Mary’s looks to restore winning ways 
Comets next on MIAA lineup for Belles 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s will look to rebound from Saturday night ’s loss to MIAA rival Calvin when the Belles take on Olivet Tuesday night. 
The contest against the Comets will be the Belles’ second conference game and their first on the road. Although Olivet (3 -6, 1-0 MIAA) has struggled early in the season, the squad won its conference opener against Adrian on Saturday. 
The Comets also boast one 
of the best guard-forward combinations in the MIAA. Junior guard Debbie Nikodemski captains the offense out of the backcourt, and she leads the team with 11 points per game. She reg­istered a season -high 16 points against Aquinasearlier this season. 
The second half of the one-two punch is junior forward Alysia Cole, who nearly aver­ages a double-double with 
9.6 points per game and a team-high 10.1 rebounds per game. In a game earlier this year against Cornerstone, the talented post player grabbed a season-high 20 rebounds. 
Searching for their first conference win, the Belles (5­2, 0-1) will look to control the glass and prevent second-chance opportunities. 
Saint Mary’s comes into this game with a balanced scoring attack. With the combination 
of junior forwards Kelley Murphy and Jessica Centa down low and junior guards Patsy Mahoney and Maggie Ronan up top, the Belles fea­ture four players averaging double-digit points per game. 
Centa and Murphy will be tasked with keeping Cole off the boards as the leading rebounders on the team. Centa is averaging 5.5 rebounds per game, while Murphy leads the team with 
9.3 boards per game. 
The Belles won their first four matchups of the season over Wheaton, Aurora, North Central, and Anderson, win­ning the North Central Tourament. The Belles also participated in the Thomas More Tourament. 
Saint Mary ’s has since dropped two of their last three, dropping contests to Wilmington and Calvin. 
Tipoff between the Belles and Comets is Tuesday at 
7:30 p.m. in Olivet, Mich. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
Irish compete in Nationals 

By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
After a three-week layoff, Notre Dame traveled to Columbus, Ohio, last weekend to compete in the U.S Nationals. With 228 points, the Irish fin­ished third out of 16 collegiate teams in the competition behind perennial powers California 
(556) and USC (495). The diving team competed at a separate event, earning a pair of top-10 finishes at the Hawkeye Invitational at Iowa. 
The Irish had not competed since defeating Utah Nov. 12. 
On the second day of Nationals, senior All-American Amywren Miller led the Irish with a victory in the B-final of the 50-yard freestyle. Miller fin­ished with a personal-best time of 22.65. 
On the final day in Columbus, senior All-American Samantha Maxwell finished in ninth place for the Irish in the A-final of the 100 breaststroke. With a time of 1:00.53, Maxwell posted her fastest time of the season. Maxwell also earned a sixth-place finish in the A-final of the 200 breaststroke with a time of 2:11.06, the fourth-fastest time in program history. 
Senior captain Katie Casey, freshman Lauren Stauder and sophomore Kim Holden also reached the finals in their events. Stuader finished seventh 
see STAUDER/page 14 








