the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Lawyer outlines laws, gives advice 
New beND campaign brings Lindsay to explain student rights when hosting parties 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
As part of its beND campaign in response to a recent spike in alcohol-related arrests off-campus, student government hosted a lecture Sunday evening titled “Alcohol, Parties, and the Law,” presented by attorney C.L. Lindsay. 
Lindsay, who left his New York law firm in 1998 after seeing the need for legal work concentrating on higher education, founded the Coalition for Student and Academic Rights (CO-STAR), which now receives 10,000 requests annually. 
In his lecture, Lindsay detailed the specific state and federal laws affect­ing students, the consequences of infractions and steps students should take to minimize their risk before, and improve the outcome after, hav­ing a legal incident. 
He said the reason most parties draw police attention is due to noise complaints from neighbors. 
“The first thing to do is make nice with your neighbors. ... If you’re going to have a party, talk to them, have them call you, not the police,” Lindsay said. “Set up your party, go outside and listen. If you can hear from a distance, it’s probably too loud.” 
Lindsay also emphasized the importance of choosing a location unlikely to cause a nuisance and draw complaints from neighbors. 
“Never have a party outside, there’s just too much noise,” he said. “The basement is the best place for a party.” 
Lindsay clarified the laws on when students can refuse a police search and how to avoid forfeiting the right. He said posting invites for the public to see, which can include online event postings, could leave the event legally open to anyone, including police. 
According to Lindsay, police can enter a home when they have a warrant, receive permission from a resident, see a crime taking place in plain view or believe that waiting to enter would result in a loss of evi­dence. 
To minimize hosts’ liability for 
see LINDSAY/page 3 



Professor emeritus conceives foundation 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Many professors might be ready to hang up their lab coats after 40 years of teach­ing. 
But for Dr. Subhash Basu, retirement was an opportuni­ty to do more work. 
Basu, once a professor in chemistry and biochemistry, is working on establishing the Current Drug Delivery Research Foundation, a foun­dation located in Innovation Park researching methods for drug delivery for compounds to cure cancer and more. 
“This May I became a Professor Emeritus,” Basu 
see BASU/page 5 


RecSports DomerRun searchesfor cancer cure 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
While many on campus were taking advantage of the away foot­ball game to sleep in, about 350 students and community members participated in the 27th annual Domer Run Saturday morning. 
Tim Novak, coordinator of spe­cial events and family programs for RecSports, said he thought the busy weekend caused the run’s numbers to be slightly lower than usual. 
“The run went very well,” Novak said. “The numbers were a little lower this year than numbers in the past, but I think that has a lot to do with the football game at MSU today and the chariot races going on.” 
The run had three divisions: a three-mile race, a six-mile race and a two-mile family fun 
see RUN/page 5 




NROTC participates in “Mud Run” 

By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps (NROTC) Marine and Navy options spent their Saturday morning deep in the mud. 
The NROTC students partici­pated in the sixth annual Marine Mud Run sponsored by the St. Joe Valley Detachment of the U.S. Marine Corps League. The event is an annu­al tradition for the Notre Dame NROTC students. 
“We participate to show the community what their tax money is paying for, to show support for former, wounded and KIA [Killed in Action] Marines,” Marine option First Class Dan Brennan said. “Also, to support Toys for Tots, which is an absolutely amazing chari­ty that helps to bring happiness and joy to underprivileged kids every year. It’s a lot of fun, and as future Marine officers, we absolutely love doing things that are both physical and can get us dirty at the same time.” 
The annual event, which returned from a one-year hia­tus, has raised more than $7,000 in total for Toys for Tots, a charity program spon­sored by the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve. Ninety-five percent of the proceeds raised from each race’s registration are donated to the program. The other five percent are used to cover the cost of the event. 
“We enjoy it and it brings the Toys for Tots charity to the forefronts of people’s minds,” Commandant Rich Mullins of the St. Joe Valley Marine Corps League said. 
Retired First Sgt. Sam Alameda introduced the course during a safety briefing for the more than 400 participants at 
8:30 a.m. He noted a few dif­ferences in the race from those of past years — the course was slightly shorter than three miles due to safety reasons and, instead of yelling “words of encouragement” from the sidelines of the course as in years past, Marines of the Engineering Company B would be running with the partici­pants. 
Alameda asked participants in the Mud Run to keep the 10 deployed Marines from Engineering Company B on their minds while going through the course. 
After explaining the course, 
see MUD RUN/page 3 



INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Political clubs prep for fall campaigns page 3  Affleck shines with ‘The Town’ page 8  Womens soccer sweeps page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Monday, September 20, 2010 

THE OBSERVER 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT’S THE FIRST THING YOU LOOK AT WHEN YOU OPEN THE OBSERVER? 







P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 

Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Amanda Gray Sports Sam Stryker Douglas Farmer Nicole Toczauer Chris Masoud Graphics Michael Todisco Melissa Kaduck Joe Wirth 
Photo Scene 
Dan Jacobs Maija Gostin Sarah O’Connor Viewpoint 
OFFBEAT 
Greeks find skulls in luggage of U.S. tourists 
ATHENS — Greek police charged two U.S. tourists with desecrating the dead on Thursday after they found six human skulls in their hand luggage at Athens international airport, a police official said. “The skulls were found in a scanner check during a stop-over in Athens on their way back to the United States,” said a police official who requested anonymity. “The coroner confirmed they were human skulls.” The two young tourists said they had bought the skulls in a souvenir shop on the island of Mykonos and believed they were fake, 
Jarred Pickering  Emma Nalezny  Erin Gibson  Dondi Ellis  Deirdre Murdy  Mike Wilbur  
grad student  senior  junior  junior  senior  junior  
first year  off campus  Welsh Fam  Alumni  off campus  O’Neill  

“The front page, “The question “The viewpoints “I don’t read “The inside “The opinions let’s see what of the day.” so I can be up the Observer.” column.” and editorial.” the big deal is!” on the latest ND gossip.” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

the official said, adding they had been released pending trial. 
Australian scientists find regional accents in bats 
SYDNEY — It’s not just people who have different accents but bats as well, according to Australian scientists. 
Researcher Brad Law of the Forest Science Center found that bats living in the forests along the east coast of the state of New South Wales had different calls. 
Law said the different calls of about 30 bat species were used to develop a system so that scientists could identify the various bats along the coast, assess their numbers, and protect them. 
Researchers took 4,000 bat calls and used a cus­tom-made software pro­gram to develop identifica­tion keys for bat calls in dif­ferent parts of New South Wales. 
Bats use their calls to nav­igate and hunt using a process called echolocation in which high frequency ultrasounds, inaudible to humans, hit objects and echo back. 
But the researchers said the development of auto­mated identification keys for bat calls was in its infancy. 
“The identification keys we have produced should undergo further testing,” said Law. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The International Summer Service Learning Program Information Session will be held tonight , from 7 to 8 
p.m. at the McNeill Library in Geddes Hall. Information sessions conducted by past participants will provide information on the applica­tion processes. 
The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture will be showing a free screening of “Nine Days that Changed the World” tonight from 7 to 
8:45 p.m. at Washington Hall. This documentary, pre­sented by former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich and his wife, Callista, follows Pope John Paul II’s historic pilgrimage to Poland in 1979 to support the Solidarity workers ’ movement. This event is open to the public. 
The Provost’s Distinguished Women’s Lecture Series features “Scented Gloves and Perfumed Buttons: Smelling Things in Renaissance Italy” tonight from 7:30 to 9 p.m. at the Snite Museum of Art in the Annenberg Auditorium . This free event is open to the public. 
“Work Off Your Weekend” Personal Training Packages are available through RecSports. If purchased on any Monday until Nov. 29, a 10-percent discount will be given for any Personal Training package. 
Tomorrow, Republicans, Democrats and Libertarians join together to discuss the Midterm Elections 2010 in Pizza, Pop, and Politics. This free event will begin at 6 
p.m. at Geddes Hall Coffee House. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Today Tonight Tuesday Wednesday thursday friday 
CORRECTIONS 

In the Sept. 15 issue of The Observer, the “Tuesday Variety Show” comic strip by Laura McGinn was incorrectly identified. The Observer regrets this 



error. 
LOW 64 LOW 64 LOW 63 LOW 59 LOW 65 LOW 50 


Monday, September 20, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


Mud Run 
continued from page 1 
Alameda expressed his gratitude to the participants. 
“The more people I see here, the happier I feel,” Alameda said. “All of you will help two or three children this Christmas as a result of your entrance fee. Kids are our future, and this is our way to help them have a brighter future.” 
Navy option Second Class Steve Schexnider said he believes giv­ing up a Saturday morning to benefit a good cause is the least students can do. 
“It’s gratifying to know that a few dollars and a few minutes of running around in the mud can help a few more kids have a merry Christmas,” Schexnider said. ”It’s easy for us to take the happiness that surrounds the holidays for granted, and forget that some children have never experienced the Christmas that most of us are used to. At the same time, it shows support to Marines and all others in uni­form who are overseas fighting for the freedoms that we cher­ish.” 
The races began promptly at 9 
a.m. with the individual males. The remaining race categories — team female, team male, team mixed, individual female, team ROTC/College, team military, team firefighters/EMT, team law enforcement and children — fol­lowed at 15-minute intervals. 
The course is physically demanding with around 20 obstacles including hills, climbs, swings, high crawl, ponds and mud — lots of mud, Mullins said. 
“As you move through the course and the mud and water weigh you down, your boots feel like there’s lead in them,” Marine Option Second Class Kevin Brainard said. “Each step becomes a notable effort.” 
Some obstacles proved to be more challenging than others. 
“The high crawl at the end was the most challenging obstacle,” Brainard said. “You’re tired when you get there, it’s rough keeping your momentum, and there are plenty of rocks to find [in the mud].” 
The Marines yelling “words of encouragement” added to the experience, Schexnider said. 
“The Marines have a funny way of ‘encouraging,’ as they sound more like demands to ‘get up this hill right now!’ rather than ‘you can do it!’” Schexnider said. ”Some of it makes us dig deep and push out those final few steps through the thick mud, and sometimes there comments make you laugh and remember that we’re out there to have fun.” 
The mud aspect of the race should not be taken for granted, participants said. 
“The Mud Run can be summed up in two words: fantastically filthy,” Schexnider said. “While the mud run was physically chal­lenging, the most challenging part was probably cleaning the mud out from my belt buckle, my pants, my shirt, my boots, my fingernails and my ears.” 


Upon completion of the race, all of the participants were drenched in water and covered with mud. The local fire depart­ment was on hand with hoses to assist participants in cleaning off the mud. 
The Notre Dame Marine and Navy ROTC students ran at 10:15 
a.m. in five groups of four stu­dents. In years past, other col­lege NROTC groups participate in the race as well, but they did not come this year.  This was dis­appointing, Marine option First Class Bernardo Garcia said. 
“Usually we race against Purdue and Michigan, but they must have been too scared to show up this year,” Brennan said. 
Senior Dave Galiyas and jun­iors Mike McHale, Mike Martinson and Dave Simone placed first as a group in their category by competing the course in just less than 20 min­utes. They received a plaque for their efforts. 
For Marine option Fourth Class Mike Falvey, his first Mud Run was a positive experience. 
“Something like a Mud Run really brings the [ROTC] unit together, because everyone is out there working hard and getting nasty, but we’re still having fun,” Falvey said. “It’s a cool experi­ence, because you are out there with such a wide range of peo­ple—enlisted Marines, officers, veterans, the Naval ROTC guys and girls, and tons of motivated civilians.” 
Falvey and Schexnider said they are looking forward to next year’s race. 
“Next year should be just as good,” Falvey said. “Hopefully, Purdue’s ROTC unit shows up next year so we can beat up on some Boilermakers.” 
“Hopefully even more midship­men, cadets, and Notre Dame students can make it out there next year and support some good causes,” Schexnider said. “Plus, it’s an excuse for all those busi­ness majors to get out of the suit and tie and roll around in the mud.” 
Next year’s Mud Run will be held on Sept. 10, 2011. The race is open to the public. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloney01@saintmarys.edu 




Political clubs prep for fall campaigns 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
As the country gears up for mid-term elections in November, the College Democrats and College Republicans of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s are mak­ing preparations of their own. 
“We’re fired up and ready to go,” Northern Indiana College Democrats (NICD) Chair Colleen Lowry said. “We have more than 3,000 people in the area working harder than ever on these campaigns.” 
NICD, which includes students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s, Holy Cross, Indiana University South Bend, Ivy Tech Community College and Bethel College, recently set up a campaign headquarters on South Bend Avenue, said Lowry, a senior at Saint Mary’s. 
“It’s really close to campus, so students can walk or ride their bikes,” she said. “The head­quarters is College Democrats-run and the entire community participates, so it’s very collabo­rative.” 
Lowry said NICD is sharing the space with St. Joseph’s County Prosecutor Michael Dvorak, who is seeking reelection in November. 
“We’re really just focusing on campaigning for candidates in northern Indiana,” she said. “We want to bring awareness to their campaigns and get our name out there as well.” 
NICD will hold phone banks Monday through Thursday each week up until elections and will also canvas around neighbor­hoods on Sundays, Lowry said. 
Senior Josh Varanelli, presi­dent of the Notre Dame College Republicans, said his organiza­tion is keeping its efforts on cam­pus. 
“We were considering door to door campaigning, but it just didn’t seem feasible,” he said. “Our big focus this election is on increased voter registration among students, as well as phone banking for swing states.” 
Varanelli said he wants the group’s work to make maximum impact. 
“This year, we’ve developed a campaign committee designed to research candidates and deter­mine where Notre Dame stu­dents can be most efficient,” he said. “We really want to maxi­mize our effectiveness.” 
College Republicans will run phone banks every Thursday and Friday until the elections are over, Varanelli said. 
The Notre Dame College Republicans are supporting Dan Coats for United States Senate and Jackie Walorski for Congress. 
Meanwhile, NICD is working to support Dvorak, Congressman Joe Donnelly, Rosemary Mandrici for St. Joseph’s County Assessor and Dwight Fish for Indiana State Representative in District 21. 
Both the College Republicans and College Democrats will sponsor ND Votes, a campus-wide bi-partisan voter registra­tion drive that is scheduled to begin Tuesday. 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 



Lindsay 
continued from page 1 
underage drinkers at a party, Lindsay suggested posting two signs, one stating that the party is private, and another reminding minors not to drink. He also advised party throwers to have two designated, sober hosts. 
“If the police do show up, you need one to talk to them ... the other to be a witness,” he said. “If you’re alone, it’s your word against two officers’. ... If you send two people out it changes the dynam­ic.” 


While the hosts should be aware and take advantage of their rights, they should also be cooperative, and avoid arguing with officers, as it reduces the likelihood of leniency. 
“The time you argue your case is in front of a judge, not a police offi­cer,” he said. 
Lindsay also warned against charging partygoers for alcohol. 
“It’s illegal to charge for liquor, period,” he said. 
While encouraging voluntary donations is legal, charging for cups, requiring “mandatory dona­tions” and claiming the money is for a different part of the party unrelated to alcohol, such as a band, does not change the legality, he said. 
Lindsay touched on other alco­hol-related issues relevant to stu­dents, including the use of fake identification, which has an extremely general definition in the law, that provides police with wide discretion when issuing citations. 
There is not a legal difference between using a manufactured fake ID or using someone else’s legitimate license. 
In addition to giving students advice on dealing with existing laws, students can and should take a more proactive role in changing the laws they disagree with. 
“The US has the most paternalis­tic drinking laws in the world,” he said. “The best way to change the laws isn’t to go behind closed doors and break them.” 

Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, September 20, 2010 


Saint Mary’s to host Hot Topic Tuesdays 
By MIRANDA PERETTI 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s students can now get career advice over lunch. 
Stacie Jeffirs, Director of the Saint Mary’s Career Crossings Office, has initiated a program called Hot Topic Tuesdays, which invites students to sit down dur­ing their lunch and discuss career-related topics. 
She decided to start the pro­gram after she noticed how many students were coming into the Career Crossings Office (CCO) with specific job-related ques­tions. 
“You’re eating lunch, so why not just come and join us?” she said. 
Jeffirs said she hopes to answer many of these questions in a format that makes sense to students. 
During the first meeting, she explained the Go Belles job search database, which is avail­able to Saint Mary’s students. This database has students set up a profile so interest-specific information can be sent to them. The website provides listings of jobs and internships currently available in the South Bend area as well as different events going on through the career center. 
Even though the Go Belles website is reserved for Saint Mary’s students, Jeffirs said Hot Topic Tuesdays can be helpful for anyone interested in either find­ing a part-time job for the school year or for starting their career. 
Her plan is to host a meeting once a month from noon to 1 
p.m. in the Saint Mary’s dining hall. The idea is to reach a broader audience by offering the sessions during lunchtime. 
Students who are unable to go to the meetings can come to the Career Crossings Office for per­sonal assistance with building a resume, writing a cover letter or obtaining graduate school infor­mation by making an appoint­ment with Stacie Jeffirs or Maureen Baska, assistant direc­tor of the CCO. The office also has many professional resources available, including book and study tools. 
“All students are welcome to come even if they don’t plan to participate in on-campus inter­views,” Jeffirs said. 
Jeffirs said everyone is encour­aged to join and learn about what options and resources they have available when going through the stressful search of finding a job and building a resume. 
Jeffirs said she plans to talk about items like the professional database Linkedin.com, net­working with alumni and alumni clubs available to students. Projected meeting dates are scheduled for Oct. 12 and Nov. 16. 

Contact Miranda Peretti at mperet01@saintmarys.edu 



Monday, September 20, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 

Run 
continued from page 1 
run/walk. There were 248 run­ners between the three-and six-mile divisions and about 100 run­ners in the fun run, Novak said. 
Most people pre-registered, but about 60 runners registered Saturday morning, Novak said. The courses all began on the press box side of the Notre Dame Stadium and finished on Library Quad. 
The races ended with a compli­mentary breakfast at Legends, where runners compared their fin­ishing times and picked up their free T-shirts and bags full of coupons. There were also raffles with prizes such as apparel from the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore and gift certificates to Hot Box Pizza. 
The proceeds from the event are given to the Notre Dame Alumni Association, which uses the money to support cancer research and education, a brochure on the event said. The Alumni Association shares the funds with the Gyna-Girls, an area women’s gynecologic cancer sup­port group. These two organiza­tions have been receiving the prof­its from the Domer Run since 1997. 
“I personally enjoy working on the run because it goes to such a great cause,” Novak said. “Working with the students shows the commitment to service that Notre Dame has for the communi­ty around us.” 
Students and community mem­bers not only ran side by side, but they also worked side by side at the run. In addition to the RecSports staff and a handful of student volunteers, many children from South Bend helped out in various ways, such as stringing the outline of the course and handing numbers out at the finish line. 
The atmosphere for the races was competitive, while the family fun run/walk was much more relaxed, Novak said. Most people who participated in the fun run were either families of cancer sur­vivors or families who have lost someone to cancer. Many sur­vivors were there themselves. 
“The survivors were a very big help today,” Novak said. “They really stepped it up and came through for us.” 
Many students were touched by these survivors, as well as by those who had lost someone to cancer. Annie DeMott, a sophomore who ran the three-mile race, was moved by the words of a man who lost his wife. 
“He told us to go out on the run hard, and if we start to feel tired or like giving up, we should think of his late wife and be inspired,” DeMott said. “It’s such a good cause. It was definitely worth doing.” 


Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 
The foundation will be listed as a non-profit foundation, inde-


Basu 
pendent from Notre Dame. continued from page 1 However, Basu will continue much of the research he started said. “My goal is to do research.” at Notre Dame, and he will also 


work with graduate, postdoctoral and undergraduate students. 
Since 2004, Basu and his research team have isolated five compounds known to be apoplec­tic agents — compounds that trigger the death of cancer cells. Betulinic acid, one of the com­pounds, is already used as an herbal treatment in China for cancer. 
“Ordinarily, our normal cells are born and die,” he said. “This is called ‘programmed cell death.’ Cancer cells get immor­tality.” 
He and his team discovered the cancer cells still have the “machinery” to have pro­grammed cell death, but it is iso­lated and inactive in the cell. The compounds they have created trigger this cell death, eliminating the cancer cells. 
“This could be beneficial in a drug,” Basu said. 
A synthetic liposome “bullet” was developed for the delivery of the drugs into the cells, he said. The bullet attaches to the cancer cells and delivers the medicine, triggering cell death. 
Basu was recently invited to speak at the 8th Annual Congress of International Drug Discovery Science and Technology in Beijing in October for the second year in a row. At the conference he will speak on the compounds and possible delivery methods for treatment in breast and colon cancer therapy. 
At the conference, Basu will also be working with Dr. Rui Ma, a 2008 graduate whom Basu taught. 
Basu received letters from University President Fr. John Jenkins and President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh wishing him well on his research endeav­ors. 
Basu said he and his team have published more than 250 papers on the treatment. 
“The whole purpose [of the foundation and published papers] is to tell the world we’ve found different compounds,” he said. 
Once he arrives at Innovation Park, Basu said he would apply for a patent for the liposome bul­let and continue research. 
“We’re going one drug at a time, to find the dose,” he said. “Then we’ll be testing intra­venously to see them work. This phase will be done at the founda­tion.” 
All of this, he said, will be pow­ered through national and inter­national grants. 
“We’re going to make [the lab] bigger, establish patents,” he said. “I’ve been working on this idea for 40 years.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
The Observer 




Viewpoint 

page 6 Monday, September 20, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Make it count 

Although the Nov. 2 midterm elections seem like they are months away, in reali­ty, they are just a short six weeks from now. Are you ready to vote? 
If not, it’s time to get your ducks in a 
row.  
As a political sci­ence major and a  Emily Schrank  
journalism, ethics  N ew s W riter  
and democracy  
minor, political  

activism and awareness are two things that are very near and dear to my heart. As a native of South Carolina, a state that is often the butt of many political jokes (Alvin Greene, anyone?), I’m even more concerned about the general political apathy that seems to plague our nation. 
On a side note, if you don’t know who Alvin Greene is (and you’re looking for a good laugh), I recommend that you “google” him. 
I was a bit stunned when, just last week, my Fundamentals of Journalism professor asked our class if we knew what the major races in each of our home states, and more importantly who the candidates involved in them, were. Needless to say, the overwhelming response was, “I don’t know.” 
The ability to vote is a key tenet of our democratic government, and one that shouldn’t be taken lightly. Citizens should participate in elections and make educat­ed and informed decisions about the peo­ple they are choosing as their represen­tatives. 
If you aren’t registered to vote in your permanent state of residence, I highly encourage you to do so. The process is virtually painless and it literally takes five minutes (and will probably provide a welcome distraction from that paper you’re writing or the test you’re cram­ming for!) 
Most of the voter registration form can be completed online on the following website: http://www.longdistancevoter.org/regis­ter_to_vote. It’s so incredibly simple and straightforward that I think even the average Michigan State student might be able to figure it out. 
Many states require that your voter registration form be postmarked at least 30 days prior to the election, so the good news is you still have at least two weeks to take care of it. For more information regarding the specific procedures in your state, I’d like to suggest you visit this website: http://www.longdistance voter.org/voter_registration_deadlines. You can also find information about the absentee voting process on this site. 
With the ability to vote, though, also comes a great deal of responsibility. 
Participating in an election is meaning­less if you don’t know anything about the candidate you vote for and don’t make an educated decision. 
Just because his or her name sounds cool or it may come first alphabetically, that probably isn’t the best reason to vote for someone. 
You can easily find out more about a candidate and the issues they stand for by simply typing a few words and click­ing a few buttons on the computer. Most candidates have their own websites and many news organizations will cover the elections more heavily as November 2 draws closer. There really is no excuse for not being informed. 
So for those of you actually reading this, I really hope you do take my advice and decide to vote in a few weeks. It might just be the best decision you’ve made in awhile. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 

When beliefs falter 
I propose one overarching ques­tion, for which I hope that the Notre Dame community may have the answer. 
Elie Wiesel said in his speech while 
accepting the  
Nobel Peace Prize in 1986  Alex Coccia  
that we must  
“take sides.  Shard ofG lass  
Neutrality  
helps the  

oppressor, never the victim. Silence encourages the tormentor, never the tormented.” It seems to me that the key here is that it is of utmost importance not to be indifferent. As a monument outside the Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, 
D.C. states: “Thou shalt not be a vic­tim; thou shalt not be a perpetrator; above all, thou shalt not be a bystander.” 
Now, I am a pacifist (See “An Argument for Pacifism,” 9/6/10). I believe that all situations can be solved through diplomatic means. I believe in being my brother’s keeper. I agree when Wiesel said to Richard Heffner in “Conversations with Elie Wiesel” that we cannot be brothers to everyone in the world, but even if “we can tell a story about a brother who is looking for a brother and finds one,” that is enough. I think that although we may not succeed in being everyone’s brother, we can try. 
I feel that my beliefs on non-vio­lence are firm. It sickens me, though, when events that have 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
occurred in my lifetime cause my beliefs, which I firmly believe to be morally right, to falter, even if only slightly. 
On Oct. 27, 2009, a 15 year old girl in California was gang raped on her high school’s property as people stood by and watched. She was left naked and unconscious under a bench on the school grounds. The horror occurred over a period of two hours, and no one notified the police, who were inside the school monitor­ing the homecoming dance. Richmond, Calif., has been shaken. America has been shaken. I and my beliefs have been shaken. 
Police reports have said that more than 20 people stood by and watched over the two hour span. Because the girl was 15, by California state law, the bystanders were not legally responsible to report the rape. This is only the beginning of the problem. I believe those bystanders, who refused to report the rape, who watched, and took pictures and video, are equally as responsible as those who have been arrested by the police as perpetrators. When inci­dents like what happened to this poor girl occur, my profound response is to want the perpetrators and bystanders to suffer as physical­ly and emotionally and long as she did and will. As a pacifist, how can I reconcile this? What world do we live in, in which people watch others gang rape a girl, videotape it and take pictures, and do nothing to stop it? How can non-violence be an answer to the atrocities multiple men have committed against a 15­year-old girl? 
It is sickening to me, and surely to all moral citizens of this world, that people could do such a thing, and others could stand by, probably with smiles on their faces. It sickens me that this has become a danger in our world. It sickens me that because of people like these who can have such an effect, I question my own views on the non-violence. But how can people stand by and do nothing? Do screams not matter? Do the pleas of a 15-year-old girl not matter? What kind of world is this? Seemingly, it is one that would be safer without peo­ple such as these perpetrators and bystanders living in it. 
Many believe that it is the killers who must be punished. Are not those who stand by and do nothing also killers? I do not know how to recon­cile my beliefs when instances like this occur. I may never know. There may, as Wiesel has said, always be exceptions to beliefs. But what pun­ishment should be given to the bystanders? 
This is my question to you in search of a solution, Notre Dame community. 
Alex Coccia is a freshman. He can be contacted at acoccia@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Living is having ups and downsand sharing them with friends.” 
Trey Parker and Matt Stone South Park creators 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“When you have loved as she hasloved, you grow old beautifully.” 
W. Somerset MaughamEnglish novelist 
The Observer 


Viewpoint 

Monday, September 20, 2010 page 7 
LETTE S TO THE EDITOR 

Gingrich is not Obama 
In response to Ryan William’s article (“Where’s the protest?” Sept. 16), I would like to clarify the motives of many of the 2009 Commencement protesters who will likely be absent for Newt Gingrich’s visit Monday. 
Ryan is baffled that since Gingrich differs from the Catholic Church on issues such as the death penalty, he is not met with the same kind of protest that president Obama was met with during the 2009 Commencement. To be clear, abortion and the death penalty carry con­siderably different weight morally. As the Catechism states, abortion “is gravely contrary to the moral law,” (CCC2271), while the Church “does not exclude recourse to the death penalty, if this is the only possible way of effectively defending human lives against the unjust aggressor,” (CCC2267). Unlike abortion, the death penalty is not an intrinsic evil. It can be justified in certain scenarios of self defense or the common good. 
Furthermore, when the numbers are examined nearly 50,000,000 abortions have taken place in the US since 1973, while fewer than 1,200 people have been executed. Certainly abortion is the far more important issue morally as well as politically seeing that every Republican and Democratic presidential candidate since 1992 has been on the same page in support for capital punishment. 
Obama was protested in 2009 because he was unabashedly in favor of the most egregious moral evil of our time. He was unapologetically pro-abortion supporting things like partial-birth abortion, overturning the Mexico City Policy, and recently introducing a health care plan with gov­ernment funding for abortion. Obama’s visit might have been acceptable if the abortion issue was simply ignored. But remember, Obama not only mentioned abortion in his Commencement address, he spent nearly five minutes justifying his pro-choice view on the Catholic platform that Notre Dame gave to him. 
The abortion issue aside, Obama’s visit was protested because it was done in defiance of the authority of our local Bishop D’Arcy. As a Catholic university we must respect the authority of the Vatican as well as our local archdiocese. When D’Arcy made an official statement con­demning the invitation of Obama, it became a closed issue. I am unaware of an official statement by Bishop Rhoades condemning Gingrich’s visit on Monday. 
Newt Gingrich, while a political klutz with some personal baggage, is not in favor of legally slaughtering innocent children. I, like the Catholic Church, take abortion for the black and white issue that it is. Luckily Gingrich is on the correct side of that issue and that is why I have no problem with his visit Monday. 
If Ryan can find me 83 bishops and three-fourths of Notre Dame’s alumni base to oppose Gingrich’s visit, I would probably change my mind. 
Sean Mullen 
junior Keough Hall Sep. 16 


The press box 
This letter is written as a response to the column written by Mr. Chris Masoud on Sept. 16 (“Section 32”). 
I’ll begin with a question: Of all the hundreds of universities in North America, did you choose Notre Dame? 
I’ll return to that question in a moment. As a new student at the uni­versity, I’ve been asked all about life here by friends and family back home and at other universities. The most common question I answer is, “What’s football Saturday like?” As students and alumni know, the feel­ing of excitement that permeates the air as everyone rallies behind our beloved Irish is indescribable. A large part of what makes that feeling is the tradition on which football, alongside every other aspect of this uni­versity, stands. Tradition is more than the repetition of specific actions or phrases; it is the preservation of a meaning that unifies and inspires us. At Notre Dame, student leaders and faculty make it clear that integrity and self-respect are integral traditions that set this university apart. 
It seems that you, Mr. Masoud, are under the impression that integrity is meaningless from 3:00 to 7:00 on Saturdays and that support of a dif­ferent team is grounds for assault. It does not matter that the situation described in the article was perceived as playful or harmless; it was wrong. As an assistant sports editor, I’m sure you’re familiar with the nature of penalties in football games. When a player illegally holds an opponent, even if his intention from the beginning of the play was not to hold, he is still flagged. Why? Because holding is not acceptable in that situation. Similarly, shoving two girls off a bench in a crowded setting for wearing a different shirt is wrong and should not be tolerated, much less praised. 
To return to the original question, why Notre Dame? Clearly your cri­teria of selection differ from mine. If you value making a fool of yourself in the name of hostility, head over and join the student body in East Lansing. I hear the Spartans do a great job of welcoming unappreciative transfers. 
Chris Andrews 
freshman Keenan Hall Sep. 17 


The man in the arena 
In 1910, President Teddy Roosevelt said: 
“It is not the critic who counts; not the man who points out how the strong man stumbles, or where the doer of deeds could have done them better. The credit belongs to the man who is actual­ly in the arena, whose face is marred by dust and sweat and blood; who strives valiantly; who errs, who comes short again and again, because there is no effort without error and shortcom­ing; but who does actually strive to do the deeds; who knows great enthusi­asms, the great devotions; who spends himself in a worthy cause; who at the best knows in the end the triumph of high achievement, and who at the worst, if he fails, at least fails while daring greatly, so that his place shall never be with those cold and timid souls who neither know victory nor defeat.” 
Go Irish! 
Paul McCauley 
alumnus class of 1966 Sep. 19 

Got it wrong 
Ryan Williams’ article “Where’s the protest?” (Sept. 16) is a poor display of social progressivism trying to twist Catholic teaching to fit its own political agenda. His arguments are weak, faulty, and in need of correction. 
Mr. Williams claims that Gingrich’s support of the death penalty and his views on health care reform are posi­tions “opposed by the Catholic Church, just as some of Obama’s were when he came to speak.” Mr. Williams seems to suggest that the Church’s teaching on the death penalty and health care is the same with regard to abortion (which was the main reason for the protests against President Obama). This claim is patently false, and is easi­ly refuted with a correct understanding of Church teaching. 
The Church teaches that the death penalty, in and of itself, is neither a morally unacceptable practice, nor a violation of the sanctity of human life. As the Catechism states, “the tradition­al teaching of the Church does not exclude recourse to the death penalty, if this is the only possibly way of effec­tively defending human lives against the unjust aggressor” (CCC 2267). Although many people believe that the death penalty should not be used in the United States, the Church allows Catholics to have a legitimate diversity of opinion. This is not the case with abortion, which is, in and of itself, “gravely contrary to the moral law” (2271). Abortion is a morally grave act whereas capital punishment is not. 
Regarding healthcare, the Church says that the state has a duty to ensure the “right to medical care for a citizen” (2211). However, like the death penalty, a diversity of opinion about how this can be achieved is permitted. Further, although Mr. Williams may be correct in criticizing Mr. Gingrich’s support of waterboarding, this is an issue of qual­ity of life rather than of life itself. Capital punishment, healthcare and waterboarding are not on the same moral level as abortion, because the death penalty is not inherently evil and the gravity of the evil done in abortion is far greater than the gravity of tor­ture and inadequate access to health­care. 
Andrew Lynch 
sophomore Morrissey Hall Sep. 16 


Stop the presses 
Obviously the South Bend Tribune sports reporters will all disagree with me, but let’s start helping Notre Dame football with no more media inter­views, except for the post-game ones. 
When Brian Kelly honestly tells you, and the whole world, each week, what he thinks our weak areas are, what the opposing team’s strengths are, when he reveals that our special teams coach is out sick, tells the entire world how he likes to run his kick return (i.e., up the middle, and then look for a break outside), tells the whole world he is going to have to pro­tect Crist by not having him run as much, etc., this is only hurting the team. 
I can guarantee you that, for exam­ple, one of the reasons we could not get a decent kick return last Saturday night, one of the reasons Michigan State ran the fake field goal so suc­cessfully, one of the reasons Michigan State held our running backs in check, etc. was the excessive interviewing of 
Brian Kelly on the world wide web. 
Note, I did not say the only reason. 
But when a team like Michigan State basically has nine months to prepare for the game, i.e., because they play only tune-up games the two weeks before, but we have only one week, we need every possible edge we can get, rather than give these edges to Michigan State. 
Again, I know the South Bend and Chicago sports reporters will all dis­agree with me, given their job descrip­tions, but this is honestly the way I feel. I felt the same way with Charlie Weis. 
Not the only reason we lose, but enough of a reason when we lose these very tight games vs Big 10 opponents. 
Thank you. 
Jim Blase 
alumnus law school class of 1981 Sep. 19 

The Observer 




Scene

page 8 Monday, September 20, 2010 



By MAC HENDRICKSON 
Scene Writer 

No one would have thought, when “Gigli” was hitting rock bottom and the “Bennifer” situation was becoming more cliché and annoyingly-addressed than tabloid culture in general, that Ben Affleck had more artistic style up his sleeve than had been revealed in his contribution to the “Good Will Hunting” screenplay. “Gone Baby Gone” was something of a grand re-entrance for Affleck. “The Town” is his way of con­firming his directorial mastery and promise for more good films. 
If there were flaws with the film, they reside in the story. The standard crime elements of insipid character contradic­tions, tasteless revenge sequences and morally vacant actions taken by suppos­edly morally redeemed characters all add up to make “The Town” less emo­tionally involving than it could have been. These flaws don’t make the story seem any less real, just less powerful an emo­tional tool. 
“The Town,” like “Gone Baby Gone,” takes place in the crime side of Boston and focuses around a local bank thief, Doug MacRay (Affleck). After the loose cannon of the group (Jeremy Renner) takes a bank manager (Rebecca Hall) hostage and leaves her blindfolded on the other side of town, MacRay decides to keep an eye on her. After following becomes interacting and interacting leads to “buying a drink,” MacRay and Keesey begin a romantic relationship. Their love is heavily based on Keesey’s vulnerability as a hostage victim, a point of irony that seems to affect MacRay surprisingly lit­tle. Of course, this romance convinces MacRay to change his life, though this change hardly amounts to much as the film progresses. 
MacRay’s character is the most flawed. His actions as a criminal become more and more abhorrent as his conviction to change increases. The events in the last 20 minutes of the film will loose any sympathy the audience has for MacRay if it hasn’t been lost already. MacRay never redeems himself as the protagonist, though his letter at the end of the film would have the audi­ence believe otherwise. 
What the film lacks in story, in makes up for in almost every other angle. Affleck’s vision is outstanding. Among 
numerous scenes of spectacular dia­logue and intimacy are several edge-of­your-seat action sequences, delivered in the popular Jason Bourne realist fash­ion. 
Almost exceeding Affleck’s success in direction are Hamm and Renner with exceptional performances. Hamm is unfortunately given too little face time; Renner is given just enough. Hamm delivers the best line of the film: “This not [messing] around thing is about to go both ways,” but it’s Renner who delivers the best scene. When his char­acter, Coughlin, surprises MacRay on a lunch date with Claire, he lingers a little too long and threatens to blow their cover. The scene becomes one of those great cinematic experiences where the audience feels compelled to scream at the screen in a desperate attempt to 
intervene in what they perceive to be a disaster waiting to happen. 
As crip­pling as emotional disconnect­edness can be for a drama, “The Town” shines. Affleck pres­ents a solid glimpse at a criminal ’s attempt to 
change and the end of the film has something to say about responsibility, about how the past shapes who we are and will be forever. Perhaps redemption is almost entirely out of the question for someone as criminally involved as MacRay. Affleck knows a thing or two about redemption. 


The Town 
Warner Bros. Produced By: Warner Bros. Director: BenAffleck Starring: BenAffleck, Jon Hamm, Jeremy Renner and Rebecca Hall 


Contact Mac Hendrickson at mhendri1@nd.edu 


MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 




IRISH INSIDER 
THE 

Monday, September 20, 2010 observer Michigan State 34, Notre Dame 31 (OT) 
Faked out 

Michigan State’s fake field goal in overtime drops the Irish to 1-2 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Associate Sports Editor 
EAST LANSING, Mich. — As Michigan State kicker Dan Conroy lined up to attempt a 46-yard field goal to send the game into a sec­ond overtime, he was preparing for his first field goal try of the night. He never got that chance. 
Instead, holder Aaron Bates rolled to the left and threw a touchdown to back-up tight end Charlie Gantt, propelling the Spartans to a 34-31 overtime vic­tory over the Irish in Spartan Stadium. 
“I saw the placeholder go up to No. 24 and tell him something, and something clicked in my head,” sophomore linebacker Manti Te’o said. “When does the holder ever go up and talk to somebody? But I just went down and tried to block a field goal.” 
The fake field goal capped off an offensively driven game that saw over 900 yards in total offense between the two teams. Despite the back-and-forth scor­ing, though, the game came down to one play. 
“It’s a difficult loss obviously,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “It came down to one play, and Michigan State executed that play. We did not. It was a hard fought game that went back and forth, and we came up short.” 
Junior quarterback Dayne Crist carried the offense, completing 32 of his 55 passes for 369 yards and four touchdowns. Sophomore receiver Theo Riddick pulled in 10 of those passes for 128 yards and a score. 
“[Crist] did some good things,” Kelly said. “What he has to work on — some of the ball control, taking care of the football. We turned the ball over three times, twice in the red zone, one time on a fourth down situation when we’re trying to pick up a first down.” 
Notre Dame got on the score­board first, capping off an 80-yard drive with a seven-yard touch­down pass from Crist to junior receiver Michael Floyd. Floyd had six catches for 81 yards and two touchdowns against the Spartans. 
“I think [the offense took anoth­er step this week],” Crist said. “I think that when we watch it tomorrow, that will be one of the positives. But we’re always going to look back and think ‘What if we made a play here or there, or exe­cuted a little better, what would have happened?’” 
After an interception in the end zone by sophomore safety Zeke Motta, the Irish drove down the field, only to have their drive cut short when Floyd fumbled in the red zone. 

“I was just disappointed,” Floyd said. “Disappointed with myself sometimes. I let the team down with my fumble and that was a play during the early part of the game I think it affected the team. You can’t do stuff like that.” 
The Irish defense was able to force another three-and-out on Michigan State’s next series, and Notre Dame took over on Michigan State’s 27-yard line. They were unable to capitalize, however, as Crist’s pass on the first play of the drive was inter­cepted by sophomore Johnny Adams. 
Michigan State took advantage of the change in momentum, driv­ing 94 yards down the field and scoring on a Kirk Cousins pass to Keshawn Martin, which tied the game at seven. The Spartans rushed for 46 yards on the drive, including three straight runs by Bell which moved the Spartans from Notre Dame’s 42 to the 6­yard line. 
“We hung in and we kept play­ing,” Spartan coach Mark Dantonio said. “Sometimes it was­n’t perfect but we ran the ball effectively. I don’t know how many times we have had three 200-yard rushing games in a row. So, we made quite a statement.” 
The Spartans started the second half where they had left off, scor­ing on the second play when sophomore Edwin Baker ran 56 yards for the score, putting Michigan State ahead 14-7. 
Crist then came out and com­pleted five of his first six passes, finishing a 74-yard scoring drive with a 10-yard touchdown pass to junior tight end Kyle Rudolph. 
Not to be outdone, Michigan State responded with its own 73­yard scoring drive which gave the hosts a 21-14 lead. Cousins com­pleted every pass of the drive, and Le’Veon Bell finished off the drive with a 16-yard scamper, his lone score of the game. 
Notre Dame responded once more, driving 77 yards on 11 plays to tie the game. Riddick caught three passes for 42 yards on the drive, including a 15-yard grab for a touchdown. 
After the Irish defense forced another three-and-out, Notre Dame scored again on a 24-yard Crist pass to Floyd to give the Irish their first lead since the first quar­ter. After trading punts, though, Michigan State responded with a four-play, 56-yard scoring drive, which tied the game at 28. 
The Spartans won the overtime coin toss and chose to defend first. After an incomplete pass and an Armando Allen run for seven yards, Crist completed a pass to Rudolph, but he came up just short of the first down marker. 
“I was definitely at the stake,” Rudolph said. “I had the point in the corner of my eye and I thought I was right there when I caught the ball. But you know, they marked it short and we’ve just got to make plays.” 
The Irish settled for a 33-yard field goal, and gave the Spartans their opportunity. Notre Dame’s defense forced the Spartans back­wards four yards in three plays, when Michigan State lined up for a 46-yard field goal attempt. Instead, Dantonio called the fake field goal, and seconds later the Spartans were celebrating their third win of the year. 
“We actually put it in on Wednesday,” Dantonio said. “It worked every time. We looked at all the different looks that they would have and felt like it was about timing. They lined up and tried to block it, and they had the first option covered. It was a great job by Conroy distracting the cor­ner as he was coming up the field. To be honest, we made the call … and I said a little prayer. I said ‘Let’s go.’” 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 


player of the game stat of the game play of the game quote of the game 
Dayne Crist 92 yards rushing Charlie Gantt’s 29-yard 
“When does the holder ever go up and

Irish quarterback game-winning touchdown reception 
talk to somebody? But I just went The Irish only managed 92 yards down and tried to block a field goal.” Crist kept Notre Dame in the game rushing against the Spartans, on Gantt was on the receiving end of with his 369 passing yards and four only 26 attempts for a 3.5 yards Aaron Bates’ pass on the Manti Te’o touchdowns. per carry average. game-winning fake field goal. Irish linebacker on the game-winning play 



page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 20, 2010 


report card 
B­
B­
B 
C+ C+ B 

quarterbacks: Dayne Crist carried the Irish Saturday. He made 55 passing attempts, completing nearly 60 percent of them, but he threw a costly intercep­tion that needed to be avoided. 
running backs: Armando Allen averaged 
5.5 yards per carry, but he only got 13 attempts. Once the Irish abandoned the running game, neither he nor Jonas Gray could affect the game much. 
receivers: Theo Riddick, Michael Floyd and Kyle Rudolph combined for nearly 300 yards and four receiving touchdowns, but Floyd fumbled away another opportunity in the red zone. 
offensive line: The Irish only gave up one sack Saturday, but Crist routinely need­ed to evade pressure. Add in Chris Stewart’s personal foul on the opening drive, and it was a sub-par day. 
defensive line: The Irish did not create enough pressure on Kirk Cousins when he elected to pass, and holes were available for the Spartans to run through when they used the ground. 
linebackers: Manti Te’o led the Irish with 11 tackles, including 2.5 for loss. Darius Fleming added another two tackles for 
loss, and Carlo Calabrese had 1.5 as well, but the Irish folded at the end. 
defensive backs: The game-winning play 
worked because the Irish safeties lost 
C their assignments, and Kirk Cousins was much more successful through the air than he should have been. 
C-
special teams: Ben Turk’s punts helped the Spartans’ field position more often than they hampered Michigan State, and the 
successful fake field goal was the differ­
ence in the game. 

C 
coaching: Clock management at the end of both halves cost the Irish chances to score, and Notre Dame appeared slop­
py as a whole, but the offense did show signs of strength, if sporadically. 
2.41 

overall: Inconsistency across the board cost the Irish. Glimpses of what the offense can do were tantalizing, but it stalled when it was needed the most. 

adding up the numbers 
Dayne Crist attempted 55 passes, a career high. Notre Dame quarterbacks have only 
55 

attempted more on four occasions. 

32 
Crist completed 32 passes, another career high. The mark ties for the fourth-most in Notre Dame single-game history. 
Sophomore Zeke Motta, starting in place of injured Jamoris Slaughter, led the Irish with 11 
11 


tackles. Motta also recorded an interception. 
8 
In its 11 overtime contests all-time, Notre Dame has now lost eight of them, including an 

0-2 record against Michigan State. 
Notre Dame only converted 42 percent of its third downs (5-for-12). 
42 

10 
After converting his 33-yard field goal in overtime, David Ruffer has made all 10 of his career field goal attempts. 
Armando Allen’s six receptions raised his career total to 110, setting the Notre 
110 


Dame record for running backs. 

By throwing four touchdown passes, Dayne 4 Crist set a mark for most touchdown passes in a Notre Dame quarterback’s first road start. 




Consistency starts with veterans 
EAST LANSING, Mich. — Irish coach Brian Kelly spoke Sunday of his “24-hour rule:” the players have 24 hours to think about a loss, and then need to forget and turn their focus to next week’s opponents. 
By that rule, junior receiver Michael Floyd has already for­gotten about his fumble in the second quarter of Saturday’s game. Senior safety Harrison Smith no longer remembers the Laura Myers blown coverage on the last play 

Sports Writer 
of the game that allowed the win­ning touchdown. Junior quarterback Dayne Crist has no memory of a costly red zone inter­ception. 
In reality, they probably still remember those mistakes. And they probably should. 
These players are three of the most important and talented players on the team, and it’s clear that they have high expectations for them­selves. Through their play and work ethic, they have earned high expecta­tions from coaches and fans as well. 
After last week’s game against Michigan, Kelly rightly took the blame for the mistakes made by backup quarterbacks Tommy Rees and Nate Montana. They weren’t prepared as they should have been, and he took responsibility for that. 
But he wasn’t at fault for these, and he said as much. Of the fake field goal, Kelly said the team knew it was a possibility. “It was the same play that MSU ran 
against Texas Tech,” he said. “It was well-executed, and our guy who was in coverage fell down.” 
Of Floyd’s lost fumble, which occurred at Michigan State’s 11-yard line and killed Notre Dame’s longest drive of the day, Kelly had a similar sentiment Sunday in his teleconfer­ence. 
“We just clearly have to take care of the football,” Kelly said. “[Floyd’s] a big kid. There’s no excuse why the ball should be on the ground. And that’s something he’s got to do. We coach it every day.” 
Of Crist’s interception, which came as the Irish had an opportunity to start a drive at the Spartans’ 27­yard-line, and of his fourth-and-two fumble, Kelly acknowledged his quarterback’s shortcoming. 
“Dayne did some good things, but what he has to work on is ball con­trol and taking care of the football,” Kelly said. 
Perhaps Kelly wouldn’t be that frank with the media if he didn’t think his players could handle it. But he certainly wasn’t throwing them under the bus with his statements. 
These three were not the only offenders — plenty of Irish made mistakes during the game. 
But these errors stand out because of who made them. 
Coaches have lauded Floyd and Smith as two of the hardest-working players on the team. Before the sea­son started, Kelly told reporters Floyd had set the standard for work among offensive players. He talked of how Smith had become a leader for the defense. 
Crist, of course, is the head of the offense. 
So, when the leaders and standard-bearers are making costly errors, how can the team expect to function? 
Floyd seemed to understand as much following the game. 
“I let the team down with my fum­ble,” he said. “I think it affected the team. You can’t do stuff like that.” 
Mistakes can be written off when they’re made by freshmen and coached away when they’re made by inexperienced players. 
But when juniors and seniors are making the costly errors, there’s no way around it. 
Floyd, arguably one of the most tal­ented players in the stadium at any given game, has not been the con­stant fans have come to expect. The fumble was not the only play he should have converted. 
Smith, the most experienced mem­ber of the secondary, needs to set a better example. The play on the fake field goal was not the only tackle he missed. 
But as Kelly acknowledged, Crist played well on the whole. He had to carry the offense and did for much of the game. 
Floyd and Smith had their bright points, too — Floyd scored two touchdowns, including a nice catch at the back of the end zone, and Smith effectively broke up a few passes late in the game. 
Without these players, Notre Dame would be nowhere. They keep the team in the game each week and did so Saturday. 
But they are also the ones who should be the most consistent for the Irish. If they can’t play a complete game, how can fans expect any Notre Dame player to do so? 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 


Monday, September 20, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Riddick relishes new role as receiver 

TOM LA/The Observer 

Sophomore receiver Theo Riddick, a running back for the Irish before switching positions this spring, splits the Spartan defense after pulling in one of his 10 catches for 128 yards and a touchdown. 
longest catch was a 24-yarder in the “Now he gives us that third weapon By LAURA MYERS third quarter, which brought the Irish we had been looking for to balance off Sports Writer to the Michigan State 10-yard line and Rudolph and Floyd,” Kelly said. 
set up a Kyle Rudolph touchdown on Though Riddick caught six passes 

EAST LANSING, Mich. — Whenever the next play. for 43 yards as a freshman, including Notre Dame’s offense was moving Riddick was involved in all but one a long of 16, he had struggled to be at Saturday, it seemed sophomore of Notre Dame’s scoring drives. ease in his new role. receiver Theo Riddick had a hand in “That’s what we’ve been seeing out “I guess the game showed I was very it. of Theo every day in practice,” comfortable,” Riddick said. “Finally 
Riddick, who totaled four receptions Rudolph said. “I kept getting used to my for 16 yards in Notre Dame’s first two telling everybody, ‘We’ll position.” games, led all players with 10 recep-see that on Saturday He said he never 
“Once I got the ball in

tions and 128 yards at Michigan State. one of these weeks.’ He doubted the switch, 
His 15-yard touchdown reception in really came out and the open feld I turned however. the third quarter, which tied the game played well today.” into a running back. “I always thought I 21-21, was the first score of his Riddick said the could do it. That’s why 
Before the play I’m a

career. offense didn’t stray far I moved to this posi­
wide receiver. After the

“He broke out,” Irish coach Brian from the original game tion,” Riddick said. Kelly said. “He’s an exciting player. plan, but some of his catch I’m a running But in a way, Riddick We knew that he was going to be able catches resulted from isn’t through with his 
back.” 

to add to our offense. It was just a junior quarterback old position. He used matter of time.” Dayne Crist finding him his running back skills 
Riddick, who spent his freshman unguarded in the Theo Riddick to evade defenders in year as a running back and transi-Spartans’ zone defense. sophomore running back open space on more tioned to receiver in the spring, “They just gave me than one carry, often opened the season on top of the depth opportunities,” he said. turning a short pass chart at the slot position. But he “I would say my number was called into a long play. caught just two passes against more, but at the same time I was open “Once I got the ball in the open field Purdue, with a long of seven yards, a lot also.” I turned into a running back,” Riddick and two more against Michigan with a Michigan State’s defense concentrat-said. “Before the play I’m a wide long of three yards. ed mainly on Rudolph and junior receiver. After the catch I’m a running 
“[Those games] weren’t frustrating receiver Michael Floyd, who had 80 back.” at all,” Riddick said. “Just a learning and 81 receiving yards, respectively. experience.” That made Riddick an easy third Contact Laura Myers at 
Against Michigan State, Riddick’s option. lmyers2@nd.edu 
MSU coach suffers heart attack after win 
By ERIC PRISTER Associate Sports Editor  D’Haem said that the dam­age was minimal and the sur­gery is “relatively common,”  2002, Irish receiver Arnaz Battle took a short pass for 60 yards and scored with  “Rocket” Ismail for fifth on Notre Dame’s all-time list.  
but that Dantonio will remain  1:15  left  to  defeat  the  Passing attack  
EAST LANSING, Mich.  — in the hospital for a few more  Spartans. Michigan State run- Irish junior quarterback  
Spartans  coach  Mark  days as a precaution.  ning  back  Jason  Teague  Dayne Crist set career highs  
Dantonio  suffered  a  mild  “He is young, in excellent  scored from 19 yards out in  in pass completions (32), pass  
heart attack after Michigan  shape, and the damage to his  overtime in 2005 to give the  attempts (55), passing yards  
State’s win Saturday night.  heart was minimal,” D’Haem  Spartans a 44-41 win after  (369) and touchdown passes  
He  was  hospitalized early  said. “Coach Dantonio made  Notre Dame had erased a 21­ (four). His touchdown mark  
Sunday morning after experi­ the right decision to come in  point deficit to force  over- was the highest for any Irish  
encing symptoms of heart  and get checked out immedi­ time.  quarterback making his first  
problems, and had surgery to  ately.”  road start. Junior receiver  
insert a stent to restore blood  Record breaker  Michael Floyd has now scored  
flow.  Nail-biters  With his sixth catch of the  touchdowns in three straight  
“The procedure was suc- Notre Dame’s 34-31 loss to  night, senior running back  games  against  Michigan  
cessful and blood flow to the  Michigan State marks the  Armando Allen became Notre  State. Floyd also tied Maurice  
heart muscle was restored,”  ninth time out of the last 11  Dame’s all-time leading pass  Stovall for sixth all-time on  
said Dr. Chris D’Haem,  an  contests between the two  catcher  among  running  Notre Dame’s touchdown list.  
interventional cardiologist  teams that have been decided  backs.  He  passed  Darius  Saturday  was  his  fourth  
with at the Sparrow Hospital  by seven points or less. Eight  Walker, who previously held  career  multi-touchdown  
Emergency Room during  a  of those nine games have  the record with 109 catches.  game.  
Sunday press conference.  seen the game-winning score  Allen is only 171 more all­ 
“I’m very pleased with the  come either late in the fourth  purpose yards to pass 1989  Contact Eric Prister at  
outcome of the procedure.”  quarter  or  in overtime. In  All-American  Raghib  eprister@nd.edu  




scoring summary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  OT  Total  
N D  7  0  14  7  3  31  
M SU  0  7  14  7  6  34  

First quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan State 0 
Michael Floyd 7-yd pass from Dayne Crist (David Ruffer kick) with 5:28 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 80 yards, 2:24 elapsed. 

Second quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan State 7 
Keshawn Martin 6-yd pass from Kirk Cousins (Dan Conroy kick) with 2:22 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 94 yards, 3:17 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan State 14 
Edwin Baker 56-yd run (Conroy kick) with 14:20 remaining. Drive: 2 plays, 74 yards, 0:35 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 14, Michigan State 14 
Kyle Rudolph 10-yd pass from Crist (Ruffer kick) with 12:25 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 74 yards, 1:49 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 14, Michigan State 21 
Le’Veon Bell 16-yd run (Conroy kick) with 5:51 remaining. Drive: 11 plays, 73 yards, 6:29 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 21, Michigan State 21 
Theo Riddick 15-yd pass from Crist (Ruffer kick) with 1:29 remaining. Drive: 11 plays, 77 yards, 4:16 elapsed. 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 28, Michigan State 21 
Floyd 24-yd pass from Crist (Ruffer kick) with 
13:20 remaining Drive: 5 plays, 52 yards, 1:29 elapsed 
Notre Dame 28, Michigan State 28 
B.J. Cunningham 24-yd pass from Cousins (Conroy kick) with 7:43 remaining Drive: 4 plays, 56 yards, 2:12 elapsed. 

Overtime 
Notre Dame 31, Michigan State 28 
Ruffer 33-yd field goal Drive: 4 plays, 9 yards 
Notre Dame 31, Michigan State 34 
Charlie Gantt 29-yd pass from Aaron Bates Drive: 4 plays, 25 yards 



statistics 
rushing yards 

passing yards 

Time of Possession 


passing  
Crist  32-55-369  Cousins  23-33-245  
rushing  
Allen  13-71  Bell  17-144  
Gray  3-12  Baker  14-98  
Crist  6-8  Martin  1-4  
receiving  
Riddick  10-128  Cunningham  7-101  
Floyd  8-81  Martin  8-96  
Rudolph  8-80  Gantt  2-41  
Allen  6-70  Bell  2-18  


page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 20, 2010 




A tough way to go 
Michigan State relied on a strong running game to amass nearly half of its 477 total yards Saturday, but in the end, it was a 29-yard touchdown pass from a punter to a tight end that cost Notre Dame a win, as Aaron Bates connected with Charlie Gnatt in overtime on a fake field goal play. The trick play left the Irish looking for answers, coming off a game in which they amassed 461 total yards, including 369 passing courtesy of junior quarterback Dayne Crist. Crist completed passes to five receivers. Sophomore Theo Riddick led the way with 10 catches for 128 yards and a touchdown and junior Michael Floyd pulled in eight catches for 80 yards and two scores, including Notre Dame’s 
first touchdown of the day. 





Clockwise from top: Running back Armando Allen looks up at the scoreboard during the game; receiver Michael Floyd pulls in one of his eight receptions for 80 yards; a Michigan State defender gets the only sack of Irish quarterback Dayne Crist of the game; the Notre Dame defense brings down a Spartan ballcarrier; Jonas Gray sidesteps a tackler. 
The Observer 




Scene

Monday, September 20, 2010 page 9 


By ANKUR CHAWLA 
Scene Writer 
In the latest of “The Night Chronicles,” M. 
Night Shyamalan once again proves his inability 
to make a movie close to as good as “The Sixth 
Sense.” This supposed horror film was underde­
veloped and, as usual, the classic Shyamalan 
twist lacked depth and insight. In fact, the 
biggest twist was hyping this movie only for it to, 
predictably, fail to meet expectations. 
The movie begins with half a dozen shots of 
virtually the same footage, panning upside-down 
from the side of a city to the top of a building 
looking down. For a movie only 80 minutes long, 
burning four to five minutes on that seemed like 
quite a waste. 
The entirety of the movie is narrated by a secu­
rity guard who, for the most part, says every­
thing that happens before it does. Shyamalan 
tried to build suspense and drama through the 
use of a ridiculous amount of coincidences, and 
the narrator repeats this at least 47 times 
through the course of the movie. Not only dilut­
ing the effect of the idea, this repetition is, more 
than anything, an annoying attempt to be poetic. 
The role of Detective Bowden, played by Chris 
Messina (“Made of Honor”, “Away We Go”), is the 
focus of this film as he watches the five people in 
the elevator from the security room. After losing 
his wife and son in a car accident (like in most of 
Shyamalan’s movies) he is a cynic about the 
world and the decency of human beings. His 
character is supposed to show growth and devel­
opment through the movie, but the actor por­
trays everything but. His stoic performance is 
almost as bad as the so-called twist. 
As for the characters inside the elevator, the 
most interesting and bearable of the characters 
is a salesman who tries to sell mattresses to the 
others trapped in the elevator. The other high­
light of the movie is an old woman, played by 
Jenny O’Hara (“The King of Queens”), who was 
carrying pepper spray noted to have expired in 
1986. Her character was not only dynamic, but 
funny and accurate. 
One of the worst qualities of the movie was that 
during every “scary” sequence, the screen is 
blank and viewers can only hear a young woman 
scream. 
The most horrifying part of this movie was hav­
ing to sit through the entirety of it. I almost 
would have rather been stuck in the elevator 
than stuck watching the people in it. 
Contact Ankur Chawla at achawla@nd.edu 


Devil 
Universal Pictures Story By: M. Night Shyamalan Director: John Erick Dowdle Starring: Chris Messina, Bojana Novakovic and Bokeem Woodbine 

MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Monday, September 20, 2010 
NFL 


Texans complete second-half comeback against Redskins 
Associated Press 
LANDOVER, Md. — Their quarterback threw for 497 yards. They overcame a 17­point third-quarter deficit. They've beaten Peyton Manning and Donovan McNabb back-to-back. They even won an overtime game for the first time. 
Needless to say, these are not your older brother's Houston Texans. 
Houston won a wild one Sunday, a game that produced nearly 1,000 yards of offense and wasn't done until Neil Rackers kicked a 35-yard field goal with 3:24 left in the extra period. The Texans knocked off the Washington Redskins 30-27 to move to 2-0 for the second time in the franchise's nine-year history, giving promise that this might be the year they finally make the playoffs. 
“My thought coming into this week was that I knew that a lot of people was going to be questioning us, asking if we were for real,” said Andre Johnson, who had 158 yards receiving and tied a career high with 12 catches despite leaving the game for part of the second half with a sprained right ankle. “I think we showed a little something today.” 
A week after Arian Foster rushed for a franchise-record 231 yards in an upset over the nemesis Indianapolis Colts, the Texans went back to the air. Matt Schaub completed 38 of 52 passes for 497 yards — yep, another franchise record 
— with three touchdowns with one interception despite get­ting sacked five times. 
Kevin Walter caught 11 passes for 144 yards. Foster had 69 yards on 19 carries and caught three passes for 69 yards. Mario Williams was the defensive star in a game without much defense, sack­ing McNabb three times. 
Two of Schaub's completions stand out above the others. A fourth-and-10 heave turned into a touchdown when Johnson outjumped safety Reed Doughty in the end zone to snag a 34-yard touchdown pass that tied the game at 27 with 2:03 to play to regula­tion, Johnson's 601st career catch. 
A similar throw led to Joel Dreessen's leaping, turn ­around grab in overtime, a 28-yard pass to move the ball to the Washington 18 to set up Rackers' kick, giving the Texans their first overtime win in seven tries since enter­ing the league in 2002. 
“I'm just trying to give guys a chance to make a play,” Schaub said. “The one to Andre was fourth down. He had two guys on him. I don't even know how he caught it. ... We got behind in a tough environment and we battled, and it just shows the resolve this team has.” 
McNabb was also cranking it out, hitting 28 of 38 passes for 426 yards with one touch ­down for the Redskins, who are 1-1 under new coach Mike Shanahan. It was the first time both quarterbacks threw for more than 400 yards in an NFL game since Drew Bledsoe and Dan Marino put on a show when New England played Miami in September 1994, according to STATS. 
“That type of game is always tough to lose,” Shanahan said. “You have your opportunities to put the game away, and you don't take advantage of it.” 
The overtime was just as crazy as the rest of the game. The Texans won the coin toss to get the ball and moved to the Washington 34, but coach Gary Kubiak opted to punt rather than try a 52-yard field goal because he didn't think the breeze was favorable. The punt went for a touchback, giving Washington the ball at its own 20. 
The Redskins then drove to the Houston 34 — the same yard line as the Texans — and Shanahan opted to try the field goal. Graham Gano made the first attempt, but it didn't count because Kubiak called timeout just before the snap. Gano's second try was wide right, putting the ball back in Schaub's hands for the win­ning drive. 
“I felt real good about the first one. I hit it real well. I maybe got a little more relaxed on the second one,” Gano said. “I thought I was going to make it. Maybe next time I just won't relax as much.” 
Another key play came when the Redskins had a chance to take a 30-20 lead with 6:36 to play in regula­tion. Gano was set to kick a chip shot 29-yarder, but Bernard Pollard blocked it to keep the Texans within one score. 
There were other oddities. Two of McNabb's completions in the second quarter went for 62 yards apiece, but neither scored a touchdown. He threw for 101 yards in one drive, a statistical anomaly made pos-sible by a sack and a penalty. Clinton Portis had two 1-yard touchdown runs, but the Redskins rushed for only 18 yards overall. 

“I told the team there prob­ably wasn't a guy on our team that didn't have a bonehead play,” Kubiak said. “But there probably wasn't a guy on our team that didn't make a great play in the game.” 
MLB 



Werth’s homer completes Phillies comeback 
hit to make it 6-5. impressive innings, outpitching Rangers. Langerhans attempting to 

Associated Press 
Werth, who had three hits, Tommy Hunter to help the Seattle Chone Figgins singled in the advance to second on a single off 

PHILADELPHIA — Jayson three RBIs and two runs scored, Mariners beat the AL West-lead-sixth on a ball that deflected off the left-field wall in the sixth. Werth hit a two-run homer in the hit a full-count fastball over the ing Texas Rangers on Sunday. second base and crossed up short-Cruz then homered to left to ninth inning after Ryan Howard 409-foot sign in center field for Ryan Langerhans hit a leadoff stop Elvis Andrus. Franklin give Texas a 1-0 lead. had a two-run single to lift the the second game-winning homer triple in the seventh and scored Gutierrez doubled to left field, Ian Kinsler and Mitch Moreland Philadelphia Phillies to their sev-of his career. It is the fifth walk-on a single by Josh Wilson, giving scoring Figgins from first after the followed with singles, but the enth straight win, 7-6 over the off home run for the Phillies this Seattle the lead and chasing relay to the plate got away from Rangers were unable to scratch Washington Nationals on Sunday. year. Hunter (12-4). catcher Matt Treanor. out another run. 
Werth's homer off Drew Storen Down 3-1, the Nationals rallied Texas' magic number remained Langerhans tripled down the helped the Phillies maintain their against Phillies starter Joe six for clinching its first division right-field line in the seventh and Giants 9, Brewers 2 three-game lead in the NL East Blanton for three runs in the title since 1999. The Rangers have scored on a sharply hit single by Jose Guillen hit a grand slam over the Atlanta Braves. The sixth. Ian Desmond led off the a nine-game lead over Oakland, Wilson. and drove in six runs, Barry Zito teams begin a three-game series inning with a single to right field. which beat Minnesota 6-2. Hunter kept Seattle's anemic won for the first time in two in Philadelphia on Monday night After a lineout to left, Desmond Langerhans went 2 for 3 and offense in check through the first months and the San Francisco with Cole Hamels facing Jair stole second and Adam Dunn drew a 12-pitch walk from Hunter five innings. He allowed just two Giants regained first place in the Jurrjens in the opener. walked. Roger Bernadina popped in his first start in a week. hits and didn't let a runner into NL West with a win over the 
Storen, who has blown two of out to shortstop and Desmond, Fister (6-12) allowed one run scoring position until Gutierrez's Milwaukee Brewers on Sunday. six save opportunities, entered the who was attempting to steal third, and nine hits. David Aardsma double. After a loss Saturday to fall ninth with a three-run lead. He had to scamper back to second. issued a leadoff walk to pinch-hit-The Rangers put the ball in play behind San Diego in the West, the gave up a leadoff single to Placido ter Chris Davis in the ninth but against Fister, but couldn't come Giants moved a half-game up on Polanco and a double to Chase Mariners 2, Rangers 1 held on for his 31st save. up with a clutch hit. Vladimir the Padres, who lost to St. Louis 4­Utley. Howard followed with his Doug Fister tossed seven Nelson Cruz homered for the Guerrero was thrown out by 1. 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Better World Books, Mishawaka, IN,  
WANTED  is looking for an enthusiastic college student with excellent interpersonal,  PERSONAL  RENT  TUTOR  
communication skills, organizational  
and multi-tasking  
skills and a strong work ethic to join  
FOOSBALL players wanted. High  our team as a PT (20 hrs/wk)  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't  If you or someone you care about  
level of play, best table in area.  Outbound Telesales Rep. This posi­ go it alone. Notre Dame has many  has been sexually assaulted, we  Lakeside Cozy furnished 3 bedroom  Math Tutoring  
Approx 10 minutes from ND. Call D  tion requires heavy phone usage  resources in place to assist you. If  can help. For more information, visit  cottage 30 minutes from South  
at 257-4441 or 339-2838. Leave  and consistently utilizes  you or someone you love needs  Notre Dame's website:  Bend. Tranquil beach community.  Algebra, Calculus, GRE  
message if no answer.  Salesforce.com (CRM tool) to man- confidential support or assistance,  http://csap.nd.edu.  One bath, fireplace, washer / dryer,  
age the majority of the job functions.  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819  full kitchen. Security deposit/ refer­ 574-229-4657  
OFFICIALS NEEDED for baseball,  Pay is $10/ hr. Please send your  or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more  ences requested.708-205-4547  
softball, flag football and indoor  resume to  information, visit ND's website at:  
lacrosse. Experience preferred for  hr@betterworldbooks.com for con­ http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu.  
ba  sideration!EOE  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————­ ———————————————  ———————————————  

Monday, Septermber 20, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 11 

NASCAR 
Bowyer tops Stewart to win Chase opener 


Associated Press 
LOUDON, N.H.— As the last seed in the Chase for the Sprint Cup championship, Clint Bowyer didn’t land on many lists of legitimate title con­tenders. 
Bowyer wasn’t mentioned in the same breath as four-time defending champion Jimmie Johnson, and that spotlight on favorites Denny Hamlin and Kevin Harvick never drifted in his direction. 
Bowyer was pressure-free as he headed into the Chase open­er at New Hampshire Motor Speedway, and with nothing to lose, he swung for the fences. 
Bowyer dominated Sunday until a series of cautions found him trailing Tony Stewart over the closing laps of the Chase opener. With both drivers try­ing to nurse their sputtering fuel tanks to the finish, Bowyer found himself in position to pounce when Stewart’s tank ran dry a lap from the check­ered flag. 
It snapped an 88-race losing streak for Bowyer, jettisoned him from 12th in the standings to second, and sent the Richard Childress Racing driver into Round 2 of the Chase loving his championship chances. 
“I had a lot of fun, it was kind of a relaxing weekend,” he said. “I don’t know if it’s going to be that way from now on. But I’m telling you, we launched ourselves into the pressure cooker early. You’ve got to be able to continue to have as much fun as we did this weekend. If we can do that, we can continue to have the success and run at this pace.” 
And what a pace it was. 
In arguably the best Chase opener since the format’s 2004 debut, the championship con­tenders bounced all over the field Sunday as driver after driver faced various issues. 
Hamlin, the If you knew exactly how much gas you have, it would be dif­ferent, but you never know. It’s part of the sport, always has been. It’s what makes it excit­ing when you never know until the last lap who’s going to hap­pen.” 
The Chase shifts next week­end to Dover, Del., where Hamlin takes a 35-point lead over Bowyer into one of his weakest race tracks. 
“It gives me somewhat of a buffer,” he said. “We all know how Dover is for me.” 
The race at the top of the standings is still tight, even for Johnson, who dropped five spots to seventh. But at only 92 points out and headed to a track where he’s a five-time winner, Johnson didn’t seem worried. 
“We’ll go home and get back to work and go after it again next week,” Johnson said. 
He’ll now have to contend with Bowyer, who is looking for a repeat of the 2007 Chase. 
He slid into the field that year and earned his first career victory with a break­through win in the New Hampshire opener. It set the tone for a strong run for Bowyer, who wound up a career-high third in the final standings. 
Bowyer felt as if he was still capable of winning the champi­onship that year as he headed into the season finale trailing Johnson and Jeff Gordon, and he hopes the momentum of his New Hampshire repeat helps him hang with the leaders the next nine weeks. 
“This reminded me a lot of 2007,” he said. “That first win of the season ... that confi­dence, the momentum, every­body, not just for me. Everybody has a major pep in their step right now and they are going to carry that through on to next week and if we can continue to ride that momentum 
points leader, was spun by Carl Edwards  “I had a lot of fun, it was kind of a relaxing  wave through this Chase, we can have a  
on  a  mid-race  weekend.”  shot at it just  
restart  and  like  we  did in  
rallied from 22nd to finish  Clint Bowyer  2007.” It could have  
s  e  c  o n  d  .  NASCAR driver  gone very dif- 

Harvick, the points leader for most of the “regular season,” struggled through a series of bad pit stops to fall as low as 18th before finishing fifth. 
Johnson was derailed by a loose right wheel late in the race to finish 25th, the lowest of the Chase drivers. And after stressing that New Hampshire was his biggest concern of the Chase, Matt Kenseth capped a weekend of struggles with a noncompetitive 23rd-place fin­ish. 
Then there was Stewart, who tried to stretch his gas the final 92 laps in pursuit of the victo­ry. 
When it backfired, he limped his car home to a 24th-place finish that cost him five spots in the standings. 
“We went down swinging,” he said, shrugging. “It’s a tough way to start the Chase. I would have settled for second. 
f e ren t l y, 
though. 
Bowyer was pressed by crew chief Shane Wilson to save his fuel, and the order frustrated him as he tried to run down Stewart. Bowyer knew if he couldn’t run wide-open, he wouldn’t catch Stewart, and he wanted the win after leading a race-high 177 laps. 
He successfully managed his fuel, and Stewart ran out of gas right before he took the white flag. 
Bowyer sailed past him, held off the hard-charging Hamlin, and never second-guessed Wilson’s call. 
“You dominated the race. You owe it to yourself to go out there and try and win the race,” he said. “We are the 12th seed going in, those are the kind of chances you’re going to have to take to beat these guys in this champi­onship Chase.” 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 20, 2010 

SMC GOLF 

Saint Mary’s in fourth place on home course 

By MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Against the top 10 teams in the country, the No. 5 Belles currently sit in fourth place in the O’Brien National Invitational at the Warren Golf Course, the home course for Saint Mary’s. 
The Belles shot 324 collec­tively and are trailing Methodist (316), DePauw (317) and Wisconsin Eau-Claire (318). 
Belles coach Mark Hamilton liked the way his team played late in the day, but admitted that they got off to a slow start. 
“We bounced back well,” Hamilton said. “We had a rough beginning, but we had a good back nine.” 
If anything needs to change for the Belles to climb into the lead today, Hamilton believes that the Belles just need to stay relaxed from the start. 
“I wasn’t expecting that we would be quite that tense,” Hamilton said. “But we’ve got young players and we’re play­ing the best teams in the coun­try so it’s quite natural that we would be a little tense.” 
Freshman Marin Beagley handed in the lowest score of the day with a 74. Senior Mary Kate Boyce shot an 80, which was good for a share of 12th place on the day. Freshman Doyle O’Brien had an impres­sive outing, shooting 84, and freshman Paige Pollack shot an 86. 
Hamilton seemed confident that if the Belles shake away some of that early-round ten­sion, they can make a run at winning the tournament and show that they are the team to beat both regionally and nationally. 
Play will resume at 8 a.m. today at the Warren Golf Course. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 





Belles split four weekend matches 
By KATHERINE MACK 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s broke even this weekend at the Manchester Invitational, winning a pair of opening matches on Saturday before losing the final two matches on Sunday. 
The Belles (3 -8) beat Franklin College, 3-1 (26-24, 25-10, 22-25, 25-19), to open the tournament. victory for Saint Mary ’s (3 -8). Soph omore Autumn Nelson led the team ters really did a wonderful job for us — Autumn Nelson having 15 kills and Stephanie Bodien having 16,” Kuschel said. 
Continuing the tournament on Sunday, the Belles fell in a close match against Purdue North Central (15 -4) by a score of 3-1 (25-13, 25-22, 23-25, 25-22. Contributers included Leitz with 33 assists and seven digs, senior Meghann Rose with a team-high 20 digs and senior Ellen 


with 15 kills, “There’s no doubt in while con ­
my mind that we’re
tributing five digs and two going to learn from our service aces. errors and come back Soph omore 
strong this week in
Stephanie Bodien added conference play.” eight kills, five digs and four 
Toni Kuschel 
aces. Freshman 

Belles coach
Hailee Leitz served a team-high eight aces. 
“We really served aggres­sively against them, which allowed us to get them out of their system and help us run 
our offense really well, ” Belles coach Toni Kuschel said. 
The next match for the Belles was on Saturday against Milikin University White squad. Prior to the tournament, Milikin split into white and blue squads to accommodate the absence of a previously committed team. Saint Mary’s earned a 3-2 (25-19, 22-25, 24-26, 25-23, 
16-14) victory  over  the Big  
Blue.  
“ I n  o u r  m a t c h  v e r s u s  

Milikin, again our outside hit-Huelsmann with 10 digs. 
“We were pretty close with Purdue North Central and went point-for­point,” Kuschel said. “We just made some critical errors.” 
Saint Mary’s faced the Milikin Blue team for the 
second and final match on Sunday and lost by a score of 3-0 (25-14, 25-13, 25-15). Freshman Christi Wyble had five blocks and Rose made 11 digs. 
“There’s no doubt in my mind that we’re going to learn from our errors and come back strong this week in conference play,” Kuschel said. “We have some big matches coming up this week. This weekend has definitely helped us see what we need to work on tomorrow at prac­tice before Tuesday’s match against Kalamazoo.” 

Contact Katherine Mack at kmack1@nd.edu 

Monday, Septermber 20, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
Junior Casey Watt also picked up a win for the Irish over 



Illinois 
Ricky Doverspike of the 


continued from page 16 
Senior David Anderson, Talmadge, sophomore Michael Moore, senior Sean Tan, fresh­man Ryan Brandy and senior Bryan Kelly rounded out the win total for the Irish in West Lafayette. 
Play was shortened on Saturday at the Olympia Fields Invitational in Illinois, and only one round of singles play was completed, as the Irish finishing with a record of 6-3. 
Senior Tyler Davis, Havens, junior Samuel Keeton and Andrews all picked up wins for the Irish on the second day of play. 
Crimson Tide. 
At Purdue, Fitzgerald won two matches on Saturday before falling to Green Bay’s Paul Swanson in straight sets in the Flight A singles consolation bracket. 
In the Flight B bracket, Brandy made it to the finals before falling to Western Michigan’s Casey Cullen in three sets. 
The Irish will continue their fall season the weekend of Oct. 1 when they travel to Cambridge, Mass., to compete in the Harvard Invitational. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at Kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 



Malette 
continued from page 16 
top talent in the country. 
“We met all of our own expec­tations in this race, but we have much bigger goals,” Jackson said. “We want to establish our­selves as one of the best teams in the NCAA, and we’re confi­dent we can do that.” 
Also turning in strong show­ings were sophomore J.P. Malette, who finished in fifth with a time of 24:53, and sopho­more Jeremy Rae, who crossed the line at 25:00. Freshman Martin Grady turned in a time of 25:11 for a ninth place finish. 
The women’s team also had a successful race, capturing the crown for the eighth time in the last 10 seasons. The Irish fin­ished with 41 points to claim the championship. Dayton finished in second with 86 points. 
Freshman Meg Ryan won the individual title in her Notre Dame debut. She finished the five-kilometer race in 15:37. 
“That was obviously the top performance for us, and a great way for her to begin her college career,” Irish coach Tim Connelly said. “It should be a big confidence builder for her as we face more intense competi­tion as the season progresses.” 
Senior Erica Watson (18:04) and junior Rachel Velarde 
(18:05) finshed eighth and ninth respectively. 
Both teams will compete next in the Notre Dame Invitational on Oct. 1 at 2 p.m. 
Contact Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 



Belles record strong times at invitational 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s finished eighth this weekend at the Knight Invitational at Calvin College. The Belles were able to post many notable individual times, as four individuals set personal records at the event. 
Ranked No. 15 nationally, host team Calvin College grabbed the victory with a score of 39. Other highly ­touted pro ­grams also performed well recorded their lowest career times. 
“I am so thrilled for all of them,” she said. “They really did the work over the sum­mer to get them in a place to have very successful sea ­sons.” 
Junior Joanne Almond, who obliterated her previous best time by 45 seconds, led the Belles. She finished with a time of 19:25 and was the medalist for Saint Mary’s, taking 23rd at the event. Emma Baker (20:25), Kristy 
Kucharski 
(20:49) and Lauren Easton 
at the invita -“I am very happy with (20:50) also tional. No. 14 set personal 
the team’s performance 
Ohio Northern records at 
(69) and NAIA this weekend.” Calvin this competitor No. weekend. 21 Aquinas “It's great to 
Jackie Bauters 
(121) took sec-have Emma 
Belles coach
ond and third respectively. The Belles were able to best conference opponents Adrian and Alma en route to their eighth place finish (208). 
Belles coach Jackie Bauters said she was pleased with her team’s showing at the Knight Invitational. 
“I am very happy with the team ’s performance this weekend,” Bauters said. “It was a great field of runners and the ladies went after it.” 
Bauters was particularly impressed by the personal improvements exhibited by her team, as four individuals [Baker] 
healthy this 
year after an 
early injury last year prevented her from having a strong season, ” Bauters said. 
Bauters added her team’s success is driven by motiva­tion and fortitude. 
“I really believe this is the most talented and hardest working team I've coached at Saint Mary’s,” she said. “I think they have a lot to be confident about and it trans­lated into a great race . it’s going to be a great season.” 

Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, September 20, 2010 


Michigan 
continued from page 16 
Friday’s match-up, the Irish (5­2-2) had some excellent opportu­nities against Michigan (3-1-5) that they were unable to capital­ize on. But it was the atmosphere of the game that Clark focused on. 
“At Michigan we should have had the game over and done with at half time,” Clark said. “We had three really good chances that we didn’t take advantage of. Friday night was one of the best college soccer atmospheres that I’ve experienced in my 25 years. The place was rocking, and it was spilling over out of the stands. Both teams had chances, and I thought we had the better of the chances, but it was a terrific game in every respect.” 
The energy of Friday’s game may have affected the play of the Irish on Sunday, who Clark said showed some fatigue and lethar­gy. 
“I think it might have taken a lot out of the team mentally going to double overtime, but I never felt like we came out with that same intensity that we had Friday,” Clark said. “Friday’s atmosphere made it easy to find an intensity. There was a certain amount of a letdown on Sunday. It’s hard for them to generate that kind of intensity, and we somehow weren’t able to do that. It’s quite difficult to have the two games back to back . but you can’t use that as an excuse.” 
Clark said he did not feel like the Irish were outplayed by Michigan State (6-1-1), but that the Spartans just took advantage of opportunities that Notre Dame could not. 
“I think the goals just fell for them, and I don’t know if they were any better than us today,” he said. 
The Irish will get a chance to come out with fire and put some goals on the board this weekend when they take on No. 20 St. John’s (5-2-1) on Friday. 
“We have to go onward and upward,” Clark said. “The season doesn’t stop. Part of it is winning, and sometimes it’s losing. You don’t like that part of it, but we’ve got to use this as a stepping stone. It’s very important to analyze, but we don’t dwell too much on it, so we must move on. We need to make sure not to use it as a stum­bling block, but as a stepping stone.” 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 

Dealy 
continued from page 16 
centage. 
Junior outside hitter Kristen Dealy was named to the all-tournament team for her strong performance over the weekend. Highlighted by a dominating 24 -kill match against Delaware, Dealy aver­aged 3.64 kills per set and 
4.36 digs per set for the week­end. 
Despite a disappointing weekend, Brown is still opti­mistic for Big East play, which commences this Friday against West Virginia. 
“The three losses this week­end didn’t define our presea­son,” Brown said. “We have now played four tournaments to prepare for conference play. We have learned a tremendous amount and are in a really good place as a team.” 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 


Tucker 
continued from page 16 
“I thought Friday night when we played DePaul … we actu­ally played pretty well,” Waldrum said. “It’s a really hard field to play on. It’s on AstroTurf field, and the L-train runs right by it, and there’s a dorm right on the sidelines. It’s just a really bad, difficult place to play.” 
Although Tucker’s contribu­tions thus far have been well appreciated by her teammates, the freshman had yet to deliver a performance quite like the one she turned in this week­end. She opened the scoring again on Sunday, finding the back of the net just 4:16 into the match. 
“She got played in behind the defense, and she got in right before the goalkeeper and dribbled it around her and kind of hit the ball in the empty net,” Waldrum said. “She was really composed.” 
Waldrum attributed Tucker’s ability to have an impact right out of high school to her exceptional conditioning, as she finished in first or second in the team’s conditioning tests before the season began. 
“The one thing I like about her is she’s got this engine that doesn’t stop,” he said. “She is busy all the time.” 
Junior forward Melissa Henderson provided the game-winner after the Wildcats (4-3­
2) pulled even just 36 seconds after Tucker’s score. Henderson earned a penalty kick after Northwestern goal­keeper Carolyn Edwards tack­led the striker in the box, and her ensuing strike was on tar­get. 
Although the return of junior midfielder Courtney Barg from injury is uncertain, Waldrum remains confident that his team is well-positioned head­ing into the heart of the con­ference season. 
“I like where we are,” Waldrum said. “The thing now with the Big East — there’s just no easy teams. They’re all good, and it’s quite different than it was five, six years ago when we would beat teams five or six [to] nothing. The parity is getting to where you want it.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 



Joyce, SMC net frst win on freshman goal 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
Freshman forward Jordan Diffenderfer made her first collegiate goal a game-winning one, as she led the Belles to their first victory of the season. Saint Mary’s edged Illinois Tech 1-0 Friday to stop a seven-game losing streak to begin the season. 
This win was significant for another reason — it was the Belles’ first under first-year coach Michael Joyce. 
Diffenderfer’s goal was set up by freshman Ellie Jacques, who pushed the ball into the offensive zone and unleashed a shot from the point that Scarlet Hawks goalkeeper Amy Arnhart initially saved. Fortunately for the Belles (1 -7), the ball deflected right to Diffenderfer’s feet, and she took full advantage. 
The Scarlet Hawks (4­
3), however, did not go down without a fight. They outshot the Belles 6­1 in the final 20 minutes but were unable to capi­talize on the offensive 
onslaught. The Belles held on due in large part to their defensive effort. Sophomore Caitlin Walsh, who tallied her first career shutout with six saves on the night, led the defense. 
The Belles hope to ride this momentum into a game with Manchester College on Tuesday. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 


Monday, September 20, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK
LAURA McGINN 

TUESDAY VAR ETY SHOW 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports

Monday, September 20, 2010 page 16 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Freshman Footwork 
Irish earn two wins in Chicago over weekend 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Although the transition from high school to collegiate soccer generally isn’t a seamless tran­sition, freshman midfielder Elizabeth Tucker is doing her best to prove otherwise. Tucker accounted for three of Notre Dame’s four goals over weekend, lifting the Irish to a 2-0 victory over DePaul on Friday and a 2-1 win against Northwestern on Sunday. 
Tucker netted both goals Friday to kick off No. 7 Notre Dame’s conference season with a win, as the squad outshot DePaul (5-3-2) 13-6. Irish coach Randy Waldrum was especially pleased with his team’s composure on the noto­riously difficult Wish Field, a site Waldrum said the Irish (7­
1) have struggled to find suc­cess in the past. 
YUE WU/The Observer 

Freshman forward Elizabeth Tucker controls a pass during Notre Dame’s 2-0 win over Texas Tech on see TUCKER/page 14 Sept. 5. Tucker netted two goals against DePaul and one against Northwestern over the weekend. 

ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Both teams claim invite victories 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
Both the men’s and women’s cross country teams captured their respective National Catholic Invitational titles Friday at the Notre Dame Golf Course. 
The men’s team claimed its 21st victory since the inception of the race in 1980. The team finished with 35 points, which was enough to stay ahead of second place Marquette, who concluded with 76 points. Bellarmine University captured both Division II titles. 
Senior Dan Jackson led the men’s team with a second place finish. He ran the five-mile race in 24:10, one minute less than last year’s performance. After Friday’s showing, Jackson is convinced that the team can jump into contention with the 
see MALETTE/page 13 


ND VOLLEYBALL 

Notre Dame drops three matches at home invitational 
By MICHAEL TODISCO Sports Writer  promising note, as the Irish (7-5) quickly seized a 2-0 lead i n the ir ma t ch ag ai n st  particularly disappointing, Ir ish coa c h De b b ie Bro wn vi ew ed the m at c h as an  Saturday, the Irish lost their match against Santa Clara (8­5) in straight sets, losing 3-0  The Iri s h cl o se d o ut t h e weekend Sunday afternoon ag ai n st the N o . 2 0 D ayton  
Delaware (9-4) on Friday.  important learning opportuni­ (25-18, 25-19, 26-24).  The  Flyers (9-3). Notre Dame lost  
The Irish played a trio of matches this weekend at the  The Irish earned a 24-20 match point in the third set in  ty for her team. “We had so many opportuni- Irish were thoroughly out-hit by the Broncos, who had an  in straight sets for the second consecutive match, losing 3-0  
Notre Dame Invitational, com-pet in g a g ai nst De la wa r e, Santa Clara and Dayton. After sweeping a three game tour­nament last weekend, Notre Dame suffered the opposite outcome this week, dropping all three matches.  what looked like a sure 3-0 w in. H o wever, De la wa re stormed back with six unan­swered points to capture the set 26-24. The Blue Hens won the next two sets, earning a 3­2 (18-25, 22-25, 26-24, 25-17, 15-11) victory over the Irish.  tie s t o wi n th e m at c h and attacking clip of .244 for the close it out,” Brown said. “It match. Brown explained the wa s em o tiona lly t ough . hitting disparity as a function ev ery one in the st adi u m of lacking a team rhythm. th o ught we ha d t he w in “We were out of synch from wra p p ed up . As a t ea m the beginning against Santa though, the lesson was that we Clara,” she said. “Unforced can’t count a game as over errors and our inability to get  (25-12, 25-21, 25-20). N o t r e Dame o nce aga in struggled with its hitting in the match. Led by tournament MVP Lindsay Fletemie, who had five blocks, Dayton held the Irish to a .104 hitting per- 
The weekend started  on  a  Although such a close loss is  until the last point.”  kills really hurt us.”  see DEALY/page 14  

MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish offense held in check 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Associate Sports Editor 
The No. 24 Irish had a difficult time scoring over the weekend, tying Michigan 0-0 Friday night before falling to No. 15 Michigan State 2-0 Sunday afternoon. 
“We’re not putting the ball in the net,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “I wish there was something we could do. We had 22 shots on Friday and 22 today, so you feel like we should be getting some goals out of these somehow. They’re making their shots count. It’s a concern obviously, but I don’t know. We’ve been generat­ing offense but we’re not making it count.” 
Though both teams had 22 shots and seven shots on goal in 
see MICHIGAN/page 14 

MEN’S TENNIS 
Split squads travel to Purdue and Illinois 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish opened their fall competitive season on Friday with half the team in West Lafayette at the Purdue Invitational and the other half at the University of Illinois. 
The team opened play on Friday combining for 20 wins between the two split squads. 
Irish coach Bobby Bayliss led the squad Friday in Illinois that claimed ten wins, includ­ing debut wins for freshmen Greg Andrews and Billy Pecor, as well as an impressive win from senior Stephen Havens over Abe Souza of Illinois. 
“Greg Andrews has one of the better forehands you will see this year and has become better moving forward and finishing at the net,” Bayliss said. “Billy Pecor has a big game, hitting with power from both sides. All he needs to do is play within himself and con­tinue to take advantage of his opportunities to move for­ward.” 
With associate head coach Ryan Sachire at the helm in West Lafayette, the Irish were just as successful with sopho­more Spencer Talmadge and junior Niall Fitzgerald claim­ing back to back doubles wins over Dayton and Western Michigan. 
see ILLINOIS/page 13 

IRISH INSIDER 
THE 

Monday, September 20, 2010 observer Michigan State 34, Notre Dame 31 (OT) 
Faked out 

Michigan State’s fake field goal in overtime drops the Irish to 1-2 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Associate Sports Editor 
EAST LANSING, Mich. — As Michigan State kicker Dan Conroy lined up to attempt a 46-yard field goal to send the game into a sec­ond overtime, he was preparing for his first field goal try of the night. He never got that chance. 
Instead, holder Aaron Bates rolled to the left and threw a touchdown to back-up tight end Charlie Gantt, propelling the Spartans to a 34-31 overtime vic­tory over the Irish in Spartan Stadium. 
“I saw the placeholder go up to No. 24 and tell him something, and something clicked in my head,” sophomore linebacker Manti Te’o said. “When does the holder ever go up and talk to somebody? But I just went down and tried to block a field goal.” 
The fake field goal capped off an offensively driven game that saw over 900 yards in total offense between the two teams. Despite the back-and-forth scor­ing, though, the game came down to one play. 
“It’s a difficult loss obviously,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “It came down to one play, and Michigan State executed that play. We did not. It was a hard fought game that went back and forth, and we came up short.” 
Junior quarterback Dayne Crist carried the offense, completing 32 of his 55 passes for 369 yards and four touchdowns. Sophomore receiver Theo Riddick pulled in 10 of those passes for 128 yards and a score. 
“[Crist] did some good things,” Kelly said. “What he has to work on — some of the ball control, taking care of the football. We turned the ball over three times, twice in the red zone, one time on a fourth down situation when we’re trying to pick up a first down.” 
Notre Dame got on the score­board first, capping off an 80-yard drive with a seven-yard touch­down pass from Crist to junior receiver Michael Floyd. Floyd had six catches for 81 yards and two touchdowns against the Spartans. 
“I think [the offense took anoth­er step this week],” Crist said. “I think that when we watch it tomorrow, that will be one of the positives. But we’re always going to look back and think ‘What if we made a play here or there, or exe­cuted a little better, what would have happened?’” 
After an interception in the end zone by sophomore safety Zeke Motta, the Irish drove down the field, only to have their drive cut short when Floyd fumbled in the red zone. 

“I was just disappointed,” Floyd said. “Disappointed with myself sometimes. I let the team down with my fumble and that was a play during the early part of the game I think it affected the team. You can’t do stuff like that.” 
The Irish defense was able to force another three-and-out on Michigan State’s next series, and Notre Dame took over on Michigan State’s 27-yard line. They were unable to capitalize, however, as Crist’s pass on the first play of the drive was inter­cepted by sophomore Johnny Adams. 
Michigan State took advantage of the change in momentum, driv­ing 94 yards down the field and scoring on a Kirk Cousins pass to Keshawn Martin, which tied the game at seven. The Spartans rushed for 46 yards on the drive, including three straight runs by Bell which moved the Spartans from Notre Dame’s 42 to the 6­yard line. 
“We hung in and we kept play­ing,” Spartan coach Mark Dantonio said. “Sometimes it was­n’t perfect but we ran the ball effectively. I don’t know how many times we have had three 200-yard rushing games in a row. So, we made quite a statement.” 
The Spartans started the second half where they had left off, scor­ing on the second play when sophomore Edwin Baker ran 56 yards for the score, putting Michigan State ahead 14-7. 
Crist then came out and com­pleted five of his first six passes, finishing a 74-yard scoring drive with a 10-yard touchdown pass to junior tight end Kyle Rudolph. 
Not to be outdone, Michigan State responded with its own 73­yard scoring drive which gave the hosts a 21-14 lead. Cousins com­pleted every pass of the drive, and Le’Veon Bell finished off the drive with a 16-yard scamper, his lone score of the game. 
Notre Dame responded once more, driving 77 yards on 11 plays to tie the game. Riddick caught three passes for 42 yards on the drive, including a 15-yard grab for a touchdown. 
After the Irish defense forced another three-and-out, Notre Dame scored again on a 24-yard Crist pass to Floyd to give the Irish their first lead since the first quar­ter. After trading punts, though, Michigan State responded with a four-play, 56-yard scoring drive, which tied the game at 28. 
The Spartans won the overtime coin toss and chose to defend first. After an incomplete pass and an Armando Allen run for seven yards, Crist completed a pass to Rudolph, but he came up just short of the first down marker. 
“I was definitely at the stake,” Rudolph said. “I had the point in the corner of my eye and I thought I was right there when I caught the ball. But you know, they marked it short and we’ve just got to make plays.” 
The Irish settled for a 33-yard field goal, and gave the Spartans their opportunity. Notre Dame’s defense forced the Spartans back­wards four yards in three plays, when Michigan State lined up for a 46-yard field goal attempt. Instead, Dantonio called the fake field goal, and seconds later the Spartans were celebrating their third win of the year. 
“We actually put it in on Wednesday,” Dantonio said. “It worked every time. We looked at all the different looks that they would have and felt like it was about timing. They lined up and tried to block it, and they had the first option covered. It was a great job by Conroy distracting the cor­ner as he was coming up the field. To be honest, we made the call … and I said a little prayer. I said ‘Let’s go.’” 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 

player of the game stat of the game play of the game quote of the game 
Dayne Crist 92 yards rushing Charlie Gantt’s 29-yard 
“When does the holder ever go up and

Irish quarterback game-winning touchdown reception 
talk to somebody? But I just went The Irish only managed 92 yards down and tried to block a field goal.” Crist kept Notre Dame in the game rushing against the Spartans, on Gantt was on the receiving end of with his 369 passing yards and four only 26 attempts for a 3.5 yards Aaron Bates’ pass on the Manti Te’o touchdowns. per carry average. game-winning fake field goal. Irish linebacker on the game-winning play 



page 2 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 20, 2010 
report card 
B­
B­
B 
C+ C+ B 

quarterbacks: Dayne Crist carried the Irish Saturday. He made 55 passing attempts, completing nearly 60 percent of them, but he threw a costly intercep­tion that needed to be avoided. 
running backs: Armando Allen averaged 
5.5 yards per carry, but he only got 13 attempts. Once the Irish abandoned the running game, neither he nor Jonas Gray could affect the game much. 
receivers: Theo Riddick, Michael Floyd and Kyle Rudolph combined for nearly 300 yards and four receiving touchdowns, but Floyd fumbled away another opportunity in the red zone. 
offensive line: The Irish only gave up one sack Saturday, but Crist routinely need­ed to evade pressure. Add in Chris Stewart’s personal foul on the opening drive, and it was a sub-par day. 
defensive line: The Irish did not create enough pressure on Kirk Cousins when he elected to pass, and holes were available for the Spartans to run through when they used the ground. 
linebackers: Manti Te’o led the Irish with 11 tackles, including 2.5 for loss. Darius Fleming added another two tackles for 
loss, and Carlo Calabrese had 1.5 as well, but the Irish folded at the end. 
defensive backs: The game-winning play 
worked because the Irish safeties lost 
C their assignments, and Kirk Cousins was much more successful through the air than he should have been. 
C-
special teams: Ben Turk’s punts helped the Spartans’ field position more often than they hampered Michigan State, and the 
successful fake field goal was the differ­
ence in the game. 

C 
coaching: Clock management at the end of both halves cost the Irish chances to score, and Notre Dame appeared slop­
py as a whole, but the offense did show signs of strength, if sporadically. 
2.41 

overall: Inconsistency across the board cost the Irish. Glimpses of what the offense can do were tantalizing, but it stalled when it was needed the most. 
adding up the numbers 
Dayne Crist attempted 55 passes, a career high. Notre Dame quarterbacks have only 
55 
attempted more on four occasions. 

32 
Crist completed 32 passes, another career high. The mark ties for the fourth-most in Notre Dame single-game history. 
Sophomore Zeke Motta, starting in place of injured Jamoris Slaughter, led the Irish with 11 
11 

tackles. Motta also recorded an interception. 
8 
In its 11 overtime contests all-time, Notre Dame has now lost eight of them, including an 
0-2 record against Michigan State. 
Notre Dame only converted 42 percent of its third downs (5-for-12). 
42 

10 
After converting his 33-yard field goal in overtime, David Ruffer has made all 10 of his career field goal attempts. 
Armando Allen’s six receptions raised his career total to 110, setting the Notre 
110 
Dame record for running backs. 

By throwing four touchdown passes, Dayne 4 Crist set a mark for most touchdown passes in a Notre Dame quarterback’s first road start. 

Consistency starts with veterans 
EAST LANSING, Mich. — Irish coach Brian Kelly spoke Sunday of his “24-hour rule:” the players have 24 hours to think about a loss, and then need to forget and turn their focus to next week’s opponents. 
By that rule, junior receiver Michael Floyd has already for­gotten about his fumble in the second quarter of Saturday’s game. Senior safety Harrison Smith no longer remembers the Laura Myers blown coverage on the last play 

Sports Writer 
of the game that allowed the win­ning touchdown. Junior quarterback Dayne Crist has no memory of a costly red zone inter­ception. 
In reality, they probably still remember those mistakes. And they probably should. 
These players are three of the most important and talented players on the team, and it’s clear that they have high expectations for them­selves. Through their play and work ethic, they have earned high expecta­tions from coaches and fans as well. 
After last week’s game against Michigan, Kelly rightly took the blame for the mistakes made by backup quarterbacks Tommy Rees and Nate Montana. They weren’t prepared as they should have been, and he took responsibility for that. 
But he wasn’t at fault for these, and he said as much. Of the fake field goal, Kelly said the team knew it was a possibility. “It was the same play that MSU ran 
against Texas Tech,” he said. “It was well-executed, and our guy who was in coverage fell down.” 
Of Floyd’s lost fumble, which occurred at Michigan State’s 11-yard line and killed Notre Dame’s longest drive of the day, Kelly had a similar sentiment Sunday in his teleconfer­ence. 
“We just clearly have to take care of the football,” Kelly said. “[Floyd’s] a big kid. There’s no excuse why the ball should be on the ground. And that’s something he’s got to do. We coach it every day.” 
Of Crist’s interception, which came as the Irish had an opportunity to start a drive at the Spartans’ 27­yard-line, and of his fourth-and-two fumble, Kelly acknowledged his quarterback’s shortcoming. 
“Dayne did some good things, but what he has to work on is ball con­trol and taking care of the football,” Kelly said. 
Perhaps Kelly wouldn’t be that frank with the media if he didn’t think his players could handle it. But he certainly wasn’t throwing them under the bus with his statements. 
These three were not the only offenders — plenty of Irish made mistakes during the game. 
But these errors stand out because of who made them. 
Coaches have lauded Floyd and Smith as two of the hardest-working players on the team. Before the sea­son started, Kelly told reporters Floyd had set the standard for work among offensive players. He talked of how Smith had become a leader for the defense. 
Crist, of course, is the head of the offense. 
So, when the leaders and standard-bearers are making costly errors, how can the team expect to function? 
Floyd seemed to understand as much following the game. 
“I let the team down with my fum­ble,” he said. “I think it affected the team. You can’t do stuff like that.” 
Mistakes can be written off when they’re made by freshmen and coached away when they’re made by inexperienced players. 
But when juniors and seniors are making the costly errors, there’s no way around it. 
Floyd, arguably one of the most tal­ented players in the stadium at any given game, has not been the con­stant fans have come to expect. The fumble was not the only play he should have converted. 
Smith, the most experienced mem­ber of the secondary, needs to set a better example. The play on the fake field goal was not the only tackle he missed. 
But as Kelly acknowledged, Crist played well on the whole. He had to carry the offense and did for much of the game. 
Floyd and Smith had their bright points, too — Floyd scored two touchdowns, including a nice catch at the back of the end zone, and Smith effectively broke up a few passes late in the game. 
Without these players, Notre Dame would be nowhere. They keep the team in the game each week and did so Saturday. 
But they are also the ones who should be the most consistent for the Irish. If they can’t play a complete game, how can fans expect any Notre Dame player to do so? 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 


Monday, September 20, 2010 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Riddick relishes new role as receiver 

TOM LA/The Observer 

Sophomore receiver Theo Riddick, a running back for the Irish before switching positions this spring, splits the Spartan defense after pulling in one of his 10 catches for 128 yards and a touchdown. 
longest catch was a 24-yarder in the “Now he gives us that third weapon By LAURA MYERS third quarter, which brought the Irish we had been looking for to balance off Sports Writer to the Michigan State 10-yard line and Rudolph and Floyd,” Kelly said. 
set up a Kyle Rudolph touchdown on Though Riddick caught six passes 

EAST LANSING, Mich. — Whenever the next play. for 43 yards as a freshman, including Notre Dame’s offense was moving Riddick was involved in all but one a long of 16, he had struggled to be at Saturday, it seemed sophomore of Notre Dame’s scoring drives. ease in his new role. receiver Theo Riddick had a hand in “That’s what we’ve been seeing out “I guess the game showed I was very it. of Theo every day in practice,” comfortable,” Riddick said. “Finally 
Riddick, who totaled four receptions Rudolph said. “I kept getting used to my for 16 yards in Notre Dame’s first two telling everybody, ‘We’ll position.” games, led all players with 10 recep-see that on Saturday He said he never 
“Once I got the ball in

tions and 128 yards at Michigan State. one of these weeks.’ He doubted the switch, 
His 15-yard touchdown reception in really came out and the open feld I turned however. the third quarter, which tied the game played well today.” into a running back. “I always thought I 21-21, was the first score of his Riddick said the could do it. That’s why 
Before the play I’m a

career. offense didn’t stray far I moved to this posi­
wide receiver. After the

“He broke out,” Irish coach Brian from the original game tion,” Riddick said. Kelly said. “He’s an exciting player. plan, but some of his catch I’m a running But in a way, Riddick We knew that he was going to be able catches resulted from isn’t through with his 
back.” 

to add to our offense. It was just a junior quarterback old position. He used matter of time.” Dayne Crist finding him his running back skills 
Riddick, who spent his freshman unguarded in the Theo Riddick to evade defenders in year as a running back and transi-Spartans’ zone defense. sophomore running back open space on more tioned to receiver in the spring, “They just gave me than one carry, often opened the season on top of the depth opportunities,” he said. turning a short pass chart at the slot position. But he “I would say my number was called into a long play. caught just two passes against more, but at the same time I was open “Once I got the ball in the open field Purdue, with a long of seven yards, a lot also.” I turned into a running back,” Riddick and two more against Michigan with a Michigan State’s defense concentrat-said. “Before the play I’m a wide long of three yards. ed mainly on Rudolph and junior receiver. After the catch I’m a running 
“[Those games] weren’t frustrating receiver Michael Floyd, who had 80 back.” at all,” Riddick said. “Just a learning and 81 receiving yards, respectively. experience.” That made Riddick an easy third Contact Laura Myers at 
Against Michigan State, Riddick’s option. lmyers2@nd.edu 
MSU coach suffers heart attack after win 
By ERIC PRISTER Associate Sports Editor  D’Haem said that the dam­age was minimal and the sur­gery is “relatively common,”  2002, Irish receiver Arnaz Battle took a short pass for 60 yards and scored with  “Rocket” Ismail for fifth on Notre Dame’s all-time list.  
but that Dantonio will remain  1:15  left  to  defeat  the  Passing attack  
EAST LANSING, Mich.  — in the hospital for a few more  Spartans. Michigan State run- Irish junior quarterback  
Spartans  coach  Mark  days as a precaution.  ning  back  Jason  Teague  Dayne Crist set career highs  
Dantonio  suffered  a  mild  “He is young, in excellent  scored from 19 yards out in  in pass completions (32), pass  
heart attack after Michigan  shape, and the damage to his  overtime in 2005 to give the  attempts (55), passing yards  
State’s win Saturday night.  heart was minimal,” D’Haem  Spartans a 44-41 win after  (369) and touchdown passes  
He  was  hospitalized early  said. “Coach Dantonio made  Notre Dame had erased a 21­ (four). His touchdown mark  
Sunday morning after experi­ the right decision to come in  point deficit to force  over- was the highest for any Irish  
encing symptoms of heart  and get checked out immedi­ time.  quarterback making his first  
problems, and had surgery to  ately.”  road start. Junior receiver  
insert a stent to restore blood  Record breaker  Michael Floyd has now scored  
flow.  Nail-biters  With his sixth catch of the  touchdowns in three straight  
“The procedure was suc- Notre Dame’s 34-31 loss to  night, senior running back  games  against  Michigan  
cessful and blood flow to the  Michigan State marks the  Armando Allen became Notre  State. Floyd also tied Maurice  
heart muscle was restored,”  ninth time out of the last 11  Dame’s all-time leading pass  Stovall for sixth all-time on  
said Dr. Chris D’Haem,  an  contests between the two  catcher  among  running  Notre Dame’s touchdown list.  
interventional cardiologist  teams that have been decided  backs.  He  passed  Darius  Saturday  was  his  fourth  
with at the Sparrow Hospital  by seven points or less. Eight  Walker, who previously held  career  multi-touchdown  
Emergency Room during  a  of those nine games have  the record with 109 catches.  game.  
Sunday press conference.  seen the game-winning score  Allen is only 171 more all­ 
“I’m very pleased with the  come either late in the fourth  purpose yards to pass 1989  Contact Eric Prister at  
outcome of the procedure.”  quarter  or  in overtime. In  All-American  Raghib  eprister@nd.edu  

scoring summary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  OT  Total  
N D  7  0  14  7  3  31  
M SU  0  7  14  7  6  34  

First quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan State 0 
Michael Floyd 7-yd pass from Dayne Crist (David Ruffer kick) with 5:28 remaining. Drive: 9 plays, 80 yards, 2:24 elapsed. 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan State 7 
Keshawn Martin 6-yd pass from Kirk Cousins (Dan Conroy kick) with 2:22 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 94 yards, 3:17 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 7, Michigan State 14 
Edwin Baker 56-yd run (Conroy kick) with 14:20 remaining. Drive: 2 plays, 74 yards, 0:35 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 14, Michigan State 14 
Kyle Rudolph 10-yd pass from Crist (Ruffer kick) with 12:25 remaining. Drive: 6 plays, 74 yards, 1:49 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 14, Michigan State 21 
Le’Veon Bell 16-yd run (Conroy kick) with 5:51 remaining. Drive: 11 plays, 73 yards, 6:29 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 21, Michigan State 21 
Theo Riddick 15-yd pass from Crist (Ruffer kick) with 1:29 remaining. Drive: 11 plays, 77 yards, 4:16 elapsed. 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 28, Michigan State 21 
Floyd 24-yd pass from Crist (Ruffer kick) with 
13:20 remaining Drive: 5 plays, 52 yards, 1:29 elapsed 
Notre Dame 28, Michigan State 28 
B.J. Cunningham 24-yd pass from Cousins (Conroy kick) with 7:43 remaining Drive: 4 plays, 56 yards, 2:12 elapsed. 
Overtime 
Notre Dame 31, Michigan State 28 
Ruffer 33-yd field goal Drive: 4 plays, 9 yards 
Notre Dame 31, Michigan State 34 
Charlie Gantt 29-yd pass from Aaron Bates Drive: 4 plays, 25 yards 
statistics 
rushing yards 

passing yards 

Time of Possession 


passing  
Crist  32-55-369  Cousins  23-33-245  
rushing  
Allen  13-71  Bell  17-144  
Gray  3-12  Baker  14-98  
Crist  6-8  Martin  1-4  
receiving  
Riddick  10-128  Cunningham  7-101  
Floyd  8-81  Martin  8-96  
Rudolph  8-80  Gantt  2-41  
Allen  6-70  Bell  2-18  


page 4 The Observer . IRISH INSIDER Monday, September 20, 2010 



A tough way to go 
Michigan State relied on a strong running game to amass nearly half of its 477 total yards Saturday, but in the end, it was a 29-yard touchdown pass from a punter to a tight end that cost Notre Dame a win, as Aaron Bates connected with Charlie Gnatt in overtime on a fake field goal play. The trick play left the Irish looking for answers, coming off a game in which they amassed 461 total yards, including 369 passing courtesy of junior quarterback Dayne Crist. Crist completed passes to five receivers. Sophomore Theo Riddick led the way with 10 catches for 128 yards and a touchdown and junior Michael Floyd pulled in eight catches for 80 yards and two scores, including Notre Dame’s 
first touchdown of the day. 





Clockwise from top: Running back Armando Allen looks up at the scoreboard during the game; receiver Michael Floyd pulls in one of his eight receptions for 80 yards; a Michigan State defender gets the only sack of Irish quarterback Dayne Crist of the game; the Notre Dame defense brings down a Spartan ballcarrier; Jonas Gray sidesteps a tackler. 




