the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Clitheroe, Ward, Rocheleau win 
Class Councils to take office April 1 after being elected with over 50 percent of votes 

COR 

Councilasks topostpone department dissolution 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
The possible dissolution of Department of Economics and Policy Studies was the main topic of discussion at the Council of Representatives (COR) meeting last night. 
Student government chief of staff Ryan Brellenthin said Student Senate would ask the Academic Council to postpone voting on the resolution to dis­solve the department at the end of the spring semester. 
The vote on dissolution of the department is scheduled to take place tomorrow. 
“There has been virtually no undergraduate student input taken into account on this deci­sion and none has been sought by those making the decision,” he said. 
Brellenthin said the proposal to dissolve the department is based on rankings, which many undergraduate students don’t consider to be vital to their edu­cation. 
see COR/page 4 

By SARAH MERVOSH 
Assistant News Editor 
The freshman, sophomore and junior classes decisively elected next year’s Class Councils, without the need for run-off elections. The winning tickets will assume their roles April 1. 
Juniors Kate Clitheroe, Cath Flynn, Michael Wagner and Evan James won the race for Senior Class Council with 52.1 percent of the vote. 
They defeated their opposing ticket, juniors Tim Castellini, Jessica Leiferman, Brittany Johnson and Cole Patterson, who garnered 39.5 percent of the vote. 
“I’m relieved and out of con­trol excited. I’m so pumped,” Class of 2011 president-elect Clitheroe said. 
“I think we have a lot of new and exciting ideas for next year that really focus on being sen­iors and concluding our four years here,” she said. “I think our enthusiasm about our plat­form just kind of gives it a lot more oomph. We’re going to make it the best year we have had here.” 
Clitheroe said by the end of the year, she would like to hold a class rosary at the Grotto. In the fall, she said her administra­tion will begin by focusing on an event to kick off the football sea­son. 
“We want to do something with the new season and the new coach … to get everyone excited,” she said. 
Sophomores James Joseph Ward, William Thwaites, Tess Fitzpatrick and Lauren Ruhling collected 52.9 percent of the vote to secure their position for 
see COUNCILS/page 6 



SGA tickets announced 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Juniors Rachael Chesley and Laura Smith will be fac­ing off against junior Meg Griffin and sophomore Emily Skirtich for student body president and student body vice president, respectively, during the election that runs from 8 a.m. Thursday to 8 
p.m. Friday. 
Both tickets say they want to improve campus relations between students and the Student Government Association (SGA) during the 2010-11 academic year. 
Rachael Chesley and Laura Smith 
Chesley has served as a member of the Student Activities Board (SAB) as well as on Dance Marathon and the Class Gift Campaign. Smith has been also partici­pated in Dance Marathon and has served on the first year, sophomore and junior boards. Although both have never sat on SGA boards, they said they think that pro­vides them with a “fresh per­spective.” 
One of the ticket’s main goals, Chesley said, is work­ing to connect campus clubs and SGA to create a better relationship. 
“We want to see more inte­gration of the clubs on cam­pus, more support, more open communication,” 
see SMC/page 4 

Students sendthanks togenerous benefactors 
By ANN-MARIE WOODS 
News Writer 
Hand-written thank-you notes are not a lost art here on cam­pus. 
Students stopped by the fourth annual Thanksgiving in February event Monday and Tuesday to write more than 500 letters of thanks to alumni donors who have contributed to the Notre Dame Annual Fund this year. 
“Alumni donations make up a huge part of the financial aid that Notre Dame is able to give out and also help fund many of the activities that go on here,” senior Emily Everett, co-chair of the Student Development Committee, said.  “We think it’s important for the alumni to hear from the stu­dents and know that their gift is appreciated.” 
Sponsored by the Notre Dame Annual Fund and the Student Development Committee, Thanksgiving in February pro­vides students with the opportu­nity to learn more about the financial contributions alumni donors make, understand how these donations affect life at Notre Dame and personally show gratitude to the University bene­factors. 
“We have a list of recent donors and we ask that students come in and spend a couple of minutes writing thank-you notes to the alumni who have so gener­
see THANKS/page 4 


Lecture examines U.S. foreign policy 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
A Cornell University polit­ical science professor cri­tiqued the lack of foreign policy progress of both the former Bush and current Obama administrations in a lecture Tuesday in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
Professor Matthew Evangelista’s lecture, titled “A ‘War on Terror’ by any 
other name ... What has Obama changed? ” was partly based on Evangelista ’s book “New Wars, New Laws? Applying Laws of War to 21st Century Conflicts.” 
The lecture examined “how policies regarding the war on terror ... have changed or not changed under the Obama adminis­tration,” Evangelista said. 
Much of the lecture focused on controversial topics like Guantanamo Bay, military torture and targeted killing using drone aircrafts. 
Evangelista compared statements made by former Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld — like his description of Guantanamo Bay detainees as “the worst of the worst” — with CIA 
see LECTURE/page 6 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Cornell University Professor Matthew Evangelista speaks on foreign policy Tuesday in the Hesburgh Center. 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Entrepreneurship panel page 3  Bengal Bouts semifinals page 20  Joys of the Olympics page 11  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Wednesday, February 24, 2010 

INSIDE COLUMN 
It’s bobsled time 
The Vancouver Olympics have sparked a deserved fascination with icy athleti­cism. When watching competitive curl­ing, speed skating, ice skating and luge­ing, it’s impossible to avoid one question. 
Where does someone’s career in such an obscure athletic endeavor begin? 
How does one become a success­ful bobsledder on a worldwide level? 
Notre Dame, and our education here, provides many answers to life’s great questions. 
But on this nag­ging question, our expensive, world class education is stunned into silence. 
But fear not! The Finests from Farely Hall have an answer to your dilemma — Farley Fiasco. 
While we Finests might not be able to help you with your career in curling or speed skating, we are certainly capable of helping you kick off your career in bobsledding — or something like it. 
Everyone has to start somewhere, and this Friday you can start your training. 
Here’s the Farley Fiasco plan to achieve the Olympic Gold in bobsled­ding: 
Step one: Go to shop ND and register you and four friends (that’s a team of five) for Farley Fiasco. The fee is $25, but obviously well worth it if it will even­tually result in an Olympic bid down the line. 
Step two: Watch “Cool Runnings” to prepare yourself for this athletic, frozen feat. Before you know it you’ll be “Feeling the rhythm, feeling the rhyme,” and you’ll want to get up because “It’s Bobsled Time!” 
Step three: Finally the big day arrives. Friday, wake up and make sure you eat your Wheaties and stretch. Then, at 7 p.m., head over to the Joyce Center to check in for registration. 
Step five: Compete in the race for your life. Winner takes home the golden sled. Losers can eat their feelings with free carnival food. 
Step six: Win or lose, enjoy the free food and free carnival brought to you by the accounting firm, KPMG. Spend $1 on a raffle ticket for sweet prizes. 
Bask in the joy of an Olympic career begun, and the self satisfaction of put­ting your sportiness on ice. And give yourself a pat on the back for helping bring books to underprivileged kids. Every $2 raised will put a book in the hands of kids, so what’s not to love? 
You could walk away with the golden sled or you could simply finally receive the answer to the question, “Could I be a bobsledder?” 
We, the Finest, are proud to offer you a chance to try your hand at the Winter Olympic sport you know and love, but never had the chance to try. 
Along with that, we are proud to offer you the entirely free winter carnival and yummy carnival food that comes with this glorious race. 
And as an added bonus, you get the pleasure of the company of the finest girls on this beautiful campus. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHERE  S YOUR DREAM VACAT ON? 






“The Bahamas  “Greece. My  “Rome, so I can  “Puerto Vallerta  “Puerto Vallerta  “Hawaii  
because it’s  sister and I  visit the  because I’m  because I’m  because I was  
warm.”  have always  Vatican.”  going with  going there  born there.”  
wanted to go  Cathy for  with Kathryn ...  
there.”  Spring Break!”  we’re so clever.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 





OFFBEAT 
Woman claims her love handles saved her life 
ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. — A Florida woman said her love handles saved her life when she was shot entering an Atlantic City bar. Samantha Lynn Frazier said she heard two pops when she walked into Herman’s Place early Saturday. The 35-year-old then felt pain and saw blood on her hand after she grabbed her left side. Atlantic City police said Frazier was an innocent bystander. 
Detective Lt. Charles Love said the gunman was aiming for a man who escaped with a bullet hole in his down jacket. 
The suspect remains at large. 
Frazier told The Press of Atlantic City that “I could have been dead. They said my love handles saved my life.” 
Puppet cleavage a no-no for Colo. bus shelter ads 
COLORADO SPRINGS, Colo. — Puppet cleavage has been ruled out for advertis­ing posters in Colorado Springs bus shelters. Lamar Advertising rejected posters for a touring production of the Broadway show “Avenue Q” because they show the cleavage of a fuzzy pink puppet. 
Lamar account executive Jeff Moore says the company takes a conservative approach in Colorado Springs. The city is known for its political conservatism, and some conservative Christian groups have head­quarters in the city. 
The poster has been replaced by one showing the face of another puppet. 
“Avenue Q” is a Tony-win­ning musical about twen­tysomething New Yorkers, both human and puppets, searching for life and love. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight wednesday thursday 


IN BRIEF 
An exhibit titled “All Art is Propaganda” will open at 8 
a.m. today in Room 102 of Hesburgh Library. 
“Expanding the Boundaries: Selected Drawings from the Yvonne and Gabriel P. Weisberg Collection” will be hosted in the O’Shaughnessy Galleries West of the Snite Museum of Art beginning at 10 a.m. today. 
Daily Mass will be held in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 11:30 a.m. and 5:15 

p.m. today. 
The women’s tennis team will take on Ohio State today at 3:30 p.m. in the Eck Tennis Center. Admission is free. 
The men’s basketball team will play Pittsburgh tonight at the Joyce Center at 7 p.m. Ticket information is available at 631-7356. 
Eric Coble’s play “Natural Selection” will be performed tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the Regis Philbin Studio Theatre in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Student tickets are $10. 
The 52nd annual Collegiate Jazz Festival will take place tomorrow at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. The event is free. 
Bengal Bouts finals will take place Saturday at 7 p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. General admission is $6. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

friday saturday 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffe1@nd.edu 


CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of 
HIGH 33 HIGH 24 HIGH 26 HIGH 28 HIGH 32 HIGH 34 
LOW 29 LOW 21 LOW 22 LOW 21 LOW 22 LOW 

journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize  
that we will make mistakes. If we have made a  
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so  Atlanta 43 / 24 Boston 40 / 34 Chicago 28 / 19 Denver 48 / 32 Houston 55 / 34 Los Angeles 62 / 49 Minneapolis 18 / 3  
we can correct our error.  New York 42 / 32 Philadelphia 43 / 33 Phoenix 70 / 51 Seattle 54 / 44 St. Louis 30 / 15 Tampa 65 / 44 Washington 47 / 33  


Wednesday, February 24, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

Professor calls on Church laity 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
Fairfield University professor of religious studies Paul Lakeland delivered a lecture at Saint Mary’s LeMans Hall Tuesday calling for laity to assume more responsibility in the salvation of the Catholic Church. 
The laity must be responsi­ble to uplift the Church by pay­ing close attention, practicing discernment, becoming under­standing and acting responsi­bly, he said. 
Lakeland’s lecture, titled “Catholicism at the Crossroads: Thinking From Below,” was sponsored by the Center for Spirituality’s Spring Lecture Series “Catholicism at the Crossroads.” 
One of Lakeland’s eight books, “Liberation of the Laity: In Search of an Accountable Church,” won first place in the Catholic Press Association 2005 awards. 
Lakeland’s lecture focused on his most recent book, “Catholicism at the Crossroads: How the Laity Can Save the Church.” 
“Saving the Church starts in the local parish,” Lakeland said. 
Lakeland discussed the ways in which the lay people must work to preserve the Church. 
He said parishioners can begin by paying attention to the world around them, espe­cially to three major factors which are affecting the Church. 
One problem is the shift in Catholic demographic within the United States, Lakeland said. 
This demographic, he said, does not consist just of the change in ethnicity, but in the age of the congregation as well. 
“Connected to these demo­graphic issues is the change in factions of participation in parish life, especially the decline in regular Mass atten­dance and the loss of religious literacy,” he said. 
Additionally, Lakeland said the developing understanding of the relationship between consciousness and authority 
“The roots of lay passivity 
was another acting as factor that lie in ignorance of the a respon­
requires extra responsibility of Christian sible 
attention. Catholic.
discipleship that occurs in
Finally, atten-“ T h e tion must be Baptism.” roots of given to the lay pas-tension sivity lie 
Paul Lakeland 
between the in igno­
professor
historical pas-rance of sivity of the Fairfeld University the 
which genuine accountability is systematically practiced by the laity,” Lakeland said. 
The final step from thinking from below, Lakeland said, is understanding. 
“This is the moment at which I believe we look at the­ological models,” he said. “What models help explain to us out of our grassroots expe­rience how to think about the church today.” 
Lakeland said the Church could be looked at in four models. He described the Church as a hospice, as a pil­grim, as an immigrant and as a pioneer. 
Finally, he spoke about the 
impor­
tance of 
laity and the emerging movement for a more partici­patory church. 
“We need to be attentive to all three of these issues before we can turn our intelligence loose upon analyzing their meaning,” he said. 
Lakeland also discussed why parishioners must practice dis­cernment. 
“We can only be discerning in a community of adults in 
responsi­
bility of Christian discipleship that occurs in Baptism,” Lakeland said. “Historically the blame for that goes to Church leaders who did not tell the story about Baptism. Today the blame goes to all of us because being better educated carries additional responsibilities.” 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 




Panelists examine entrepreneurship 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
When senior Jeff Lakusta was a freshman, he never imagined that he would one day be the president of a successful, internationally rec­ognized nonprofit organization. 
“After traveling to South Africa and getting a firsthand look at the extreme poverty that exists there, I realized one person can make a huge difference,” he said. 
“Recognizing the interconnected­ness of humanity is key,” Lakusta, founder of the Eyes on Africa Foundation, said in a panel Tuesday evening. 
Student government and the Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies sponsored the event, titled “Be The Change: A Forum on Social Enterprise,” in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. 
Five panelists discussed the goals, challenges and rewards of social entrepreneurship, as well as what it takes to be successful in it. 
Melissa Paulsen, a project man­ager in the Gigot Center for Entrepreneurial Studies, said it isn’t just about creating wealth, but also about creating opportunity. 
“Social enterprise requires trans­formation, innovation and pur­pose,” she said. “It combines an economic engine with a social pur­pose.” 
According to Paulsen, there are a number of resources available to Notre Dame students looking to start a social venture, including the Social Venture Competition. 
“We can provide marketplace perspective and real world critical feedback,” she said. 
Chris Fuchs, a 2001 Notre Dame graduate and founder of Better World Books, attested to the help­fulness of these resources. 
“We didn’t know what we were getting into when we got started,” Fuchs said. “But the connections we made through the Social Venture Competition opened up a number of doors for us.” 
Although there are a great deal of both business and logistical chal­lenges in starting a social enter­prise, the personal connections that come through the work make it all worthwhile, he said. 
“The most exciting thing has been being able to evolve with the business and bring new people into the organization as it grows,” Fuchs said. 
Today, the online bookstore gen­erates $7 a minute for nonprofit organizations. 
Lakusta said seeing the good he has done keeps him driven. 
“If you make a mistake, keep pushing forward,” he said. “What you do helps so many more people than you’ll ever know.” 
Other panelists included Sonia Menon, a junior and semi-finalist in the 2010 Social Venture Competition, and David Murphy, CEO of Better World Books. 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 24, 2010 
COR 
continued from page 1 
Student body president Grant Schmidt said this decision would be reflective of many different processes within the University. 
“This proposal is controversial because it sets the precedent for how input will be sought for academic decisions from the student body,” he said. 
Many COR members thought student government might be overstepping its boundaries by demanding that student input be taken into account in University academic decisions. 
Student body vice president Cynthia Weber said student gov­ernment is not requesting to be involved in every decision that the University makes, but stu­dents who will be affected by such decisions should have a chance to voice their opinions. 
“We come to a university because the professors and deans have an expertise but we’re also scholars,” she said. “We want to be a part of deci­sions that affect our scholar­ship.” 
Brellenthin articulated that what student government wants is more knowledge of the situa­tion. 
“Half of what we’re asking for is to be educated before a deci-
SMC 
continued from page 1 
Chesley said. 
Smith said this would include members of SGA going out to meetings of other clubs when possible as well as holding events that bring together club leaders to encourage dialogue. 
The ticket would also like to increase knowledge and com­munication with the alumnae network, Chesley said. 
“This College is built on the foundation of tradition and one of the things that attracted me to this college is the alumnae base,” she said. 
Chesley said she and Smith would like to increase the “presence of alumnae on cam­pus.” 
The two said they recognize that their opponents’ experi­ence may appear to place them at an advantage, however they believe they bring an “unbiased view.” 
“Sometimes you just need to shake things up a bit with an outside perspective,” Smith said. 
Chesley agreed, saying their view is “exactly how a student would see student government from the outside.” 
“We have an understanding of the student body,” Chesley said. “We would be thrilled to dive in and learn SGA.” 
Chesley and Smith said their main goal can be summed up in two words: community and integrity. 
Both have studied abroad and hope to bring those lessons back to campus. 
“Everybody is involved in some way, and we want to encourage students to be the face of Saint Mary’s, this com­munity, this integrity, this acceptance,” Chesley said. “We want them to be this face of Saint Mary’s whether they are here on campus or off campus and even after they graduate.” 
Meg Griffin and Emily Skirtich 
Griffin, who currently serves as student body vice president and previously held the post of sophomore class president, and sion like this is made,” he said. 
Schmidt said Student Senate will request tonight that the res­olution to dissolve the Department of Economics and Policy Studies be postponed until undergraduate economics majors have a chance to give their input to the College of Arts and Letters. 
In other COR news: 
 Schmidt brought to the atten­tion of COR members a request made by Fr. Mark Poorman, vice president of Student Affairs, to increase the allotment to the Rector Fund. 
The Rector Fund is provides monetary assistance for stu­dents who can’t afford fees for things like football tickets, books and service trips. The money for the Rector Fund comes out of The Shirt Charity Fund, which has a current value of $1.3 mil­lion. 
Schmidt said the allotment for the Rector Fund for the 2009 fiscal year was $60,000 but around $92,000 was given to students from the Office of Financial Aid. In response to the increased need, Poorman asked that the annual funds be increased to $100,000. 
“Use of this fund has increased dramatically over the past few years and people are requesting assistance for legiti­mate reasons,” Schmidt said. “To me, increasing the funds 
Skirtich, who is currently exec­utive secretary for SGA, said their overreaching goal for the next academic year will be to “invigorate the student body with a sense of unity and school spirit.” 
The pair hope to continue the work of the current SGA administration and hold more all-campus events, like the Navy Ball. 
The team also wants to work to connect students with the heritage of the College, improve communication with students, faculty and adminis­tration, and improve campus life overall, Griffin said. 
In order to help improve stu­dent’s connection with the her­itage of the College, Griffin said she hopes to continue the work she did this year with Jenny Hoffman, current student body president, including planning the creation of an academic course on Saint Mary’s her­itage. 
“Since it frequently takes more than one academic year to create a new course, we are still in the midst of the process and look forward continuing the process next year,” Griffin said. 
Ideas to improve communica­tion between the student body and its government include closer ties between SGA and campus clubs. 
“Some of our plans are to refine the allotment process, hold club officer orientation sessions, make the SGA Web site a working tool for clubs, open a club workspace in the SGA office and release a 2010­11 Club Handbook that will serve as a reference tool and answer frequently asked ques­tions,” Griffin said. 
Club changes would be part of their short-term goals for the end of this academic year. 
To improve campus living for students, Griffin and Skirtich say they hope to connect with Notre Dame’s student govern­ment and try to get nearby off-campus restaurants to get “campus currencies accepted,” Griffin said. 
Griffin said their experience makes them best suited for the job. 
seems like a no-brainer because it goes to a very important cause.” 
COR also discussed the recent passing of a resolution in Student Senate that proposes and recommends the passing of a student medical amnesty poli­cy. 
The Senate and the Office of Residence Life and Housing will work together to develop and implement a policy for the 2010­11 academic school year. 
The policy would allow stu­dents to report medical emer­gencies without having to worry about receiving a disciplinary record for breaking school rules. 
Schmidt said because of recent discussion about revi­sions to du Lac, it is very likely that a medical amnesty policy could be in place by the Fall 2010 semester. 
He said one of the main argu­ments against the passage is that many University officials believe that such a policy is already “unofficially” in place on campus. 
“Even if it is in place, students have to know about it,” Schmidt said. “It needs to be outlined in du Lac so that students can make that phone call without being deterred.” 

Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 
“With our progression [...], we are in a better position to serve the student body, to diag­nose from afar potential mis­takes and avoid them,” Griffin said. “Even with that experi­ence, we will still make some mistakes, everyone makes mis­takes, but we will have the experience to better react and address them.” 

Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 


Thanks 
continued from page 1 
ously donated to the Notre Dame Annual Fund in the past year,” Everett said. “This is a great opportunity for students to show their appreciation for the benefits that they have received because of the gen­erosity of Notre Dame’s alumni donors.” 
The Notre Dame Annual Fund is a source of expendable financial sup­port that pro­
“I let them know what I’m doing, I thank them for giving me the opportunity to be here and I inform them what their help is allowing me to do here,” she said. 
Koryzno has remained in con­tact with one donor from Ann Arbor, Mich., whom she was able to meet in person at an alumni club picnic. 
“He was very appreciative of me thanking him and also that I’m fully utilizing the scholar­ship that he provides for stu­dents like me,” Koryzno said. 
Most alumni 
echo the same 
vides not only  “We think it’s  sentiments  of  
student finan­cial aid but also meets the  important for the alumni to hear from  thanks for stu­dent recognition of their dona- 
growing needs  the students and know  tions,  Everett  
in academic and student life, beyond the  that their gift is appreciated.”  said. “Many alumni will send us let- 
earnings from  ters and let us  
the endow­ment. “Many stu­dents don’t  Emily Everett co-chair student development  know how much they enjoy talk­ing to our stu­dent callers who  
know  that  call them from  
tuition  only  the phone cen­ 

covers half of the cost of their ter, and we know that our let-education, and alumni dona-ters are also well received,” tions make up a huge portion she said. “We encourage stu­of the difference,” Everett said. dents to continue this tradition 
Junior Aleksandra Koryzno by participating in recognized the importance of Thanksgiving in February in keeping in contact with alumni the future.” donors, as they contributed to her education and experience Contact Ann-Marie Woods at at Notre Dame. awoods4@nd.edu 




World & Nation 
Wednesday, February 24, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Hunger-striking Cuban dissident dies 
HAVANA — An opposition political activist imprisoned since 2003 died Tuesday after a lengthy hunger strike, members of Cuba’s human rights community said. 
Orlando Zapata Tamayo, who was jailed on charges including disrespecting authority, died at a clinic at Havana’s Combinado del Este prison, according to Vladimiro Roca, a leading dissident who said he spoke to Zapata Tamayo’s family. 
Zapata Tamayo, 42, was not among the island’s best-known dissidents. He was arrested in 2003 on charges of disrespecting authority, said Elizardo Sanchez, head of the Havana-based, independent Cuban Commission on Human Rights and National Reconciliation. 

UK considers anti-libel tourism laws 
LONDON — A committee of British lawmakers says the government should change the coun­try’s laws to stop “libel tourism” from stifling investigative journalism and press freedom. 
The chairman of the House of Commons Culture, Media and Sport committee said Wednesday that it was “a humiliation” that sev­eral U.S. states have introduced laws to protect American citizens from the enforcement of legal settlements in foreign jurisdictions such as Britain. A similar federal law is currently before the U.S. Congress. 
The committee, which has members from the three main political parties, said in a report that the government must act “as a matter of urgency” to redress the balance of libel laws that have “tipped too far in favor of the plaintiff.” 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Two injured in Colo. school shooting 
LITTLETON, Colo. — Teachers tackled and subdued a man armed with a high-powered rifle just after he shot two teenage students Tuesday at a suburban Denver middle school that’s just miles from Columbine High School, the site of one of the nation’s deadliest school shoot­ings, authorities said. 
The seventh-grade math teacher who tackled the suspect, David Benke, is a 6­foot-5-inch former college basketball play­er who has taught at the school for about 10 years, his wife Sandra Benke, told KUSA-TV. Other teachers quickly piled on the gunman, the station reported. 
"Some staff acted very quickly, and very heroically," Jefferson County Sheriff’s office spokeswoman Jacki Kelley said. 

Pa. courts reconsider gay custody 
HARRISBURG, Pa. — A Pennsylvania appellate court has rejected a 25-year-old legal precedent and ruled that a parent’s homosexual relationship cannot be used against the parent in determining child custody. 
The eight-judge Superior Court panel issued its decision last month in a custody battle between a mother and father who were identified only by their initials. 
It also reversed the lower court ruling that awarded the father primary custody of their daughter, and granted the appeal of the mother to continue shared custody. 
In doing so, the judges said a 1985 Superior Court decision that said a parent must prove that their gay relationship is not detrimental to the child. 


LOCAL NEWS 
House repeals employer tax increase 
INDIANAPOLIS — The Indiana House has passed legislation that would repeal an increase on taxes that employers pay into the state's unemployment insurance fund, which is deeply in debt to the federal gov­ernment. 
The Democrat-controlled chamber voted 90-5 for an amendment to repeal the tax increase. The fund has been paying out hundreds of millions of dollars more in ben­efits than it has been taking in through employer taxes and owes the federal gov­ernment $1.6 billion in loans to remain sol­vent. 



Toyota recall won’t be total fix 
Congress hears testimony from defect victim and company’s U.S. sales chief 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Massive recalls of popular Toyota cars and trucks still may “not totally” solve frighten­ing problems of sudden, unintended acceleration, the company’s American sales chief conceded Tuesday, a day before the Japanese president of the world’s largest automaker must confront angry U.S. lawmakers. 
House members listened in rapt silence Tuesday to the tearful testimony of a woman whose car unac­countably surged to 100 mph, then they pressed 
U.S. sales chief James Lentz on the company’s efforts to find and fix the acceleration problems — actions many suggested were too late and too limit­ed. 
Lentz apologized repeat­edly for safety defects that led to recalls of some 8.5 million Toyota cars and trucks, and he acknowl­edged the changes the com­pany is making probably aren’t the end of the story. 
Putting remaining doubts to rest is of vital impor­tance to millions more Toyota owners in the United States and else­where, who have continued to drive but with serious Rep. Joe Barton said of advance. He also will offer plays of emotion at concerns about their cars. Toyota’s probe: “In my his condolences over the Tuesday’s daylong hearing Toyota sales have suffered, opinion, it’s a sham.” deaths of four San Diego, — both from the Tennessee too, and a small army of The U.S. government is Calif., family members in a woman who survived a dealers showed up on pursuing the electronics crash of their Toyota in late 2006 sudden acceleration Capitol Hill Tuesday, argu-question, Transportation August. incident when she was ing that this week’s high-Secretary Ray LaHood told “I will do everything in unable to control her run-profile hearings are unfair-the panel. “We’re going to my power to ensure that away Lexus and from Lentz ly targeting their company. go into the weeds on that” such a tragedy never hap-himself, who choked up 
“We are vigilant and we and come up with answers, pens again,” Toyoda will while discussing the death continue to look for poten-LaHood said. He said the tell the House Government of his own brother more tial causes,” Lentz told the company’s recalls were Oversight Committee. “My than 20 years ago in a car House Energy and important but “we don’t name is on every car. You accident. Commerce Committee. maintain that they answer have my personal commit-“I know what those fami-
That search had better every question.” ment that Toyota will work lies go through,” Lentz said. continue, a number of law-Lentz’s appearance set vigorously and unceasingly Rhonda Smith, of makers said, openly ques-the stage for Toyota’s presi-to restore the trust of our Sevierville, Tenn., said her tioning Toyota’s insistence dent — Akio Toyoda, customers.” Lexus raced out of control that the problems are grandson of the company’s “Quite frankly, I fear the to speeds up to 100 miles mechanical, not linked to founder — to apologize in pace at which we have an hour, and that nothing the vehicles’ sophisticated person on Wednesday. grown may have been too she did to try to stop it electronics. Toyoda will accept “full quick” and led to safety worked — including brak-
Without a more vigorous responsibility” for the halt-defects at the heart of the ing and shifting into neu­investigation of the possibil-ing steps that led to the recall, Toyoda says in his tral. “I prayed to God to ity that electronics are recall, according to pre-prepared testimony. help me,” she said, fighting involved, Texas Republican pared testimony released in There were repeated dis-back tears. 



N.Y. subway terrorist pleads guilty 
tle driver, pleaded guilty Monday in against other suspects. 
Associated Press 
Brooklyn federal court to conspiring to Already charged are an imam, a cab 
NEW YORK — Distressed over the use weapons of mass destruction, con-driver and Zazi’s uncle and father, who’s deaths of civilians in his native spiring to commit murder in a foreign been accused of trying to dispose of Afghanistan, a man who once operated country and providing material support chemicals. a coffee cart near the World Trade for a terrorist organization. The 25-U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder said Center site hatched a plan to join the year-old, part of what prosecutors con-in Washington that the planned bomb-Taliban and fight the U.S. military. sider one of the most serious U.S. terror ings “could have been devastating.” 
Najibullah Zazi traveled to Pakistan in threats since the attacks on Sept. 11, “This attempted attack on our home-August 2008 but never made it to 2001, faces life in prison without parole land was real, it was in motion and it Afghanistan. Al-Qaida operatives spot-when he’s sentenced in June. would have been deadly,” he said. ted him. They had more ambitious plans The jailed Zazi had recently volun-Zazi admitted using notes taken at an and conspired with him to try to help teered information about the bomb plot al-Qaida training camp in Waziristan, him die a martyr in a bombing of the in the first step toward a plea deal, The Pakistan, to build homemade explosives New York subway system, he admitted Associated Press learned earlier this with beauty supplies purchased in the Monday. month from officials who spoke on con-Denver suburbs and cooked up in a 
“I had discussions with al-Qaida lead-dition of anonymity because the terror Colorado hotel room. He then drove the ers, including target locations, such as investigation was ongoing. His coopera-materials to New York just before the New York City subways,” he said. tion suggests prosecutors hope to eighth anniversary of the Sept. 11 
Zazi, a former Colorado airport shut-expand the case and bring charges attacks. 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 24, 2010 
been contested on both 
legal and ethical bases. 

Lecture 
“The only time it wasn’t continued from page 1 considered a form of torture 
was during the Bush admin-statements that classified istration,” he said. most detainees “noncombat-Targeted killings, like ants.” those initiated with the use 
“[Only] 8 percent of the of remote -controlled air ­detainees at Guantanamo crafts to target presumed were Al Qaeda,” Evangelista hostiles, have also come said. under fire in recent years. 
The treatment of Evangelista noted a prob-detainees was one of the lem in the inefficiency of main focus areas of the practice. Evangelista’s examination. “The people being target-
Evangelista  ed  …  [are] not  
q  u  o t  e  d  s o l d i e r s , ”  h e  
e x c e r p t s o f A r t i c l e 5 o f t h e G e n e v a C o n v e n t i o n ,  “[Only] 8 percent of the detainees at Guantanamo were  said. “Civilians a r e p r o t e c t e d u n d e r t h e G e n e v a  
w h i c h  c a l l s  Al Qaeda.”  Conventions.”  
for a determi- T h e  U . S .  
n a t i o n o f detainee sta-t u s b y “ a c o m p e t e n t  Matthew Evangelista professor Cornell University  Supreme Court s u b s e q u e n t l y ruled that the U . S . h a d  

tribunal.” 
Evangelista said that vague term typi­cally implies a committee of officials from the military force itself. 
“The people who decide … are the people who capture them, ” Evangelista said. “There is no right of appeal.” 
Evangelista said under these policies, officials often fall short of adhering to acceptable standards of treatment of prisoners. 
“Of course, we know their human rights are being vio­lated,” he said. 
Torture, especially water­boarding, has become an especially hot topic, Evangelista said, as it has indeed violated 
the Common Article 3 of the Conventions, which states during armed conflicts, noncombatants and civilians should be treated “humanely.” 
“The Bush administration responded by making legal many of the things the Supreme Court had declared unconstitutional in the Military Commissions Act of 2006,” Evangelista said. “So, how would we recognize if things have changed?” 
He established three stan­dards for evaluating the Obama administration regarding war practices: whether former policies were discontinued, whether the illegal practices were stigmatized and whether the crimes and perpetrators were investigated. 
Evangelista said Obama’s initial language on the sub­ject was vague, as he said detainees would either be released, detained in the 
U.S. for trial or handled in a manner categorized as “other.” 
“This language worries people,” he said. 
Furthermore, Obama ’s failure to follow through with the closing of Guantanamo Bay, Evangelista said, falls short of the first qualification of change: discontinuing prac­tices. 
Evangelista said the short­comings of the Obama administration, especially with regard to investigating the crimes, are associated with issues that date back to the Bush administration’s Justice Department. 
The current administra­tion has, however, succeed­ed in stigmatizing the prac­tices, Evangelista said, ref­erencing a statement by Attorney General Eric Holder that called water­boarding torture. 
Evangelista offered a sim­ple response as to why the administration has failed to identify and thwart policies deemed immoral and illegal by many. 
“The politically attuned advisers got scared, I think, ” Evangelista said. “The answer is politics.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
Patrick Adams were the winning 
ticket for Sophomore Class 


Councils 
Council. They won with 53.9 per-continued from page 1 cent of the vote. The Rocheleau ticket ran Junior Class Council. against two opponents — fresh-
They defeated sophomores men Richard Bevington, Ashley Chase Riddle, Paul Moya, CJ Kelly Armendariz, Elliot Pearce and and Megan Carey, who won 36 Sadaf Meghani, and freshmen percent of the vote. John McKissick, Brianna 
“We’re really honored to have Neblung. Alex Draime and Ian this privilege to serve you guys,” Trudell. Class of 2012 president-elect Rocheleau said he was “elated” Ward said. “We’re excited for and “excited” to win the election. 
next year and we  “With  three  
love the Class of 2012.”  “I think we have a lot  tickets, we thought we were  
Ward said one of the main goals of his administra­tion will be to  of new and exciting ideas for next year that really focus on being  definitely going to go for a run-off on Thursday so knowing that the  
hold events with the sophomore and senior class- seniors and concluding our four years here.”  campaigning is done is a relief,” he said.  
es next year. “I feel that our  Kate Clitheroe  Rocheleau said one of his main  
class is already pretty unified,”  president-elect Class of 2011  goals is to unify the Class of 2013.  

he said. “I feel like it’s time that we start getting unified with the classes above and below us because those are the two we’re going to be spending them most time here with.” 
Ward also commended his opposing ticket and said he looks forward to working with them next year. 
“Chase and those guys put up a great campaign and they’re all great kids,” he said. “They have great ideas too and it will be exciting to work with them next year. 
“Hopefully together we can crank out more than just the ideas that we had in the cam­paigns.” 
Freshmen Brett Rocheleau, Kevin Doherty, Kathleen Kehl and “Our whole 
goal is to try to get the whole class more involved together, sort of break down bar­riers so we can work more as a class,” he said. 
He said he plans to do this by holding a dance for the freshmen class mid-April, holding more class trips next year and hosting a “Domecoming” in the fall, which would be comparable to other college’s Homecoming events. 
“We have experience. All four of us were a part of student gov­ernment this past year so we sort of knew how the system worked,” he said. “We think that we’ll be very effective next year when we’re in office.” 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at  smervosh@nd.edu 

The Observer 




Business
Wednesday, February 24, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 
Chevron plans solar power plant 
NEW YORK — Chevron Corp. said Tuesday it will build a solar power plant near a mine that a subsidiary operates in New Mexico. 
The plant will generate electricity by spread­ing 175 solar panels across 20 acres at Chevron’s molybdenum mine in the village of Questa. 
San Ramon, Calif.-based Chevron, the coun­try’s second-largest oil company, didn’t disclose how much it would cost to build. 
Kit Carson Electric Cooperative has agreed to buy the energy generated from the 1-megawatt plant through a power-purchase agreement. Construction is scheduled to begin in the spring. 
Chevron Technology Ventures, the subsidiary that’s building the plant, views the plant as a demonstration site that will teach the company how to use solar on other properties. 
Chevron shares fell 92 cents to $72.04 in Tuesday trading. 

Obama seeks to repeal antitrust laws 
WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama urged Congress on Tuesday to strip health insurers of their decades-old exemption from federal antitrust laws — hardening his stand against the industry as he tries to revive his stalled health care overhaul. 
The White House announced Obama’s sup­port for a House bill that would repeal the industry’s antitrust exemption, saying that would foster a more competitive marketplace that benefits consumers. The announcement follows Obama’s call for new federal rate-set­ting powers that would give the Health and Human Services department the power to deny excessive increases in health insurance premi­ums. 
“Removing this exemption will allow appro­priate enforcement and examination of poten­tial policies that might prove uncompetitve, or might stifle competition,” spokesman Robert Gibbs said. 
Obama has scheduled a health care summit with congressional leaders of both parties for Thursday, in a bid to rescue Democratic health care plans passed by both chambers that stalled after Democrats lost their 60-seat majority in the Senate. On Monday, he unveiled a proposal that sought to bridge the differences between the House and Senate bills. 



Stocks fall after consumer report 
Dow Jones falls 100 points as investors move from stock market into treasuries 
Associated Press  
NEW YORK — The stock  
market fell sharply Tuesday  
after a surprising drop in  
consumer confidence  
reminded investors of the  
fragility of the economic  
recovery.  
The Dow Jones industrials  
fell 100 points. Interest rates  
also fell in the bond market  
as investors moved money  
out of stocks and into the  
safety of Treasurys.  
The Conference Board  
said its consumer confi­ 
dence index fell to 46 in  
February from 56.5 last  
month. That was well below  
the forecast of economists  
polled by Thomson Reuters.  
They expected a reading of  
55.  
Not only did the index fall  
sharply, it is far from indi­ 
cating strength in the econo­ 
my. A reading above 90  
means the economy is on  
solid footing. Consumers are  
vital to a strong, sustained  
economic recovery because  
their spending accounts for  
more than two-thirds of all  
economic activity.  
The confidence numbers  
came as investors were  
already rethinking the more  
optimistic assessment they AP  
had of the economy last In this Jan. 25 photo, traders John Panin, left, and Bobby Gray work on the floor of the  
week. Stocks had rallied for New York Stock Exchange.  
four straight days on upbeat  
earnings news, including  remain mixed, which is typi- Stocks have been volatile  Federal Reserve to keep  
some from retailers, and on  cal for this point in a recov­ during the first two months  interest rates low. The yield  
improving housing and  ery and add to uncertainty  of the year, alternating  on the benchmark 10-year  
manufacturing numbers.  among investors, he said.  between multi-week stretch- Treasury note, which moves  
That rally has ended this  “Until we get more consis­ es of gains and losses.  opposite its price, fell to 3.69  
week in response to a grow­ tently positive trends, it’s  Stocks rallied the past two  percent from 3.80 percent  
ing pile of disappointing  like to be choppy like this,”  weeks on signs of domestic  late Monday.  
consumer news, including  Stevens said.  growth after a nearly  Investors will get further  
retail earnings reports.  The Dow fell 100.97, or 1  monthlong drop because of  insight into potential interest  
While Home Depot Inc.,  percent, to 10,292.41 after  worries that European debt  rate changes when Fed  
Sears Holdings Corp., Macy’s  being up around 19 before  problems would upend a  chairman Ben Bernanke  
Inc. and Target Corp. all  the consumer confidence  global economic recovery.  testifies before Congress on  
reported better-than-expect­ index was released. The  The Chicago Board  Wednesday and Thursday.  
ed earnings Tuesday, the  Standard & Poor’s 500 index  Options Exchange’s Volatility  A modest increase in sales  
companies indicated that  dropped 13.41, or 1.2 per- Index, which is known as  and cost-cutting helped  
sales growth is lagging.  cent, to 1,094.60, while the  the market’s fear gauge,  Home Depot’s profit top  
That’s a sign that consumers  Nasdaq composite index fell  shot up 7.2 percent Tuesday.  expectations. The home  
are still too hesitant about  28.59, or 1.3 percent, to  An increase in the VIX sig­ improvement retailer also  
the economy and their own  2,213.44.  nals that investors are pre­ raised its dividend and out- 
job security to spend freely.  About two stocks fell for  pared for swings in the mar- look, evidence it is confident  
“Consumers are still just  every one that rose on the  ket.  about the strength of an  
very confused,” said J.  New York Stock Exchange,  Meanwhile, interest rates  eventual recovery.  
Garrett Stevens, CEO of  where consolidated volume  fell in the bond market as  Competitor Lowe’s Corp. on  
FaithShares, which man- came to 4.54 billion shares,  Treasury prices rose.  Monday also raised its out­ 
ages exchange-traded  up from 3.84 billion on  Investors were betting that a  look, but had a cautious  
funds. Economic reports  Monday.  weak recovery will force the  tone about growth.  

GREECE 


Greek unions strike in midst of crisis 
public hospitals will function on emer-ting bonuses, hiking consumer taxes and 
Associated Press 
gency staff. raising retirement ages. 
Journalists are also holding a 24-hour “The Greek people are well aware that 
ATHENS — Greek unions are set to strike, and two separate demonstrations the fiscal situation of the country is in make a show of strength Wednesday in a are planned for central Athens. terrible shape ... But the measures are nationwide strike against austerity meas-The country’s two largest umbrella not fair,” GSEE head Yiannis ures aimed at pulling the debt-plagued labor groups, the private sector GSEE Panagopoulos said. “We demand a fair country out of its worst postwar financial and public sector ADEDY, fiercely oppose distribution of the burden so that wage-crisis. a wave of belt-tightening measures earners and pensioners do not pay the 
In the first general strike since the cen-announced over the past weeks to price for a crisis they did not create.” ter-left government’s election in October, reduce the bloated budget deficit from The government, however, facing a all flights to and from Greek airports 12.7 percent of GDP to 8.7 percent this March 16 deadline from the European have been canceled, while trains and fer-year. Union to show signs of fiscal improve­ries will be idle. Greece’s woes have affected confi-ment, is under pressure to take addition-
Millions of Athenian commuters will be dence in the euro as a common currency, al measures. These could include a hike left without most forms of public trans-and hiked the country’s borrowing costs. in the Value Added Tax, currently at 19 port. Public schools, tax offices and The governing Socialists have frozen percent, and further civil service bonus municipal offices will be closed, while civil service wages and hiring while cut-cuts. 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 8 Wednesday, February 24, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 



TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Katie Peralta Michael Bryan Amanda Gray Michael Blasco John Cameron Andrew Owens 

Graphics Scene 
Sofia Iturbe Caitlin Ferraro 


Lessons from inside the ring 
I came to Notre Dame fully realizing that my experience here would be very different from my high school friends. Notre Dame is unique, I was told, and it is true. The proof is everywhere. At most schools, kids go out to bars or Andy Ziccarelli fraternity parties on Thursday Moment of nights, but you Inertia are more likely to find me in the Dillon Hall chapel at Mass then. Most schools would have given anything to have President Obama speak at their commencement; at Notre Dame it was controversial (to say the least). And most people tend to gain a little weight their freshman year, the so-called “freshman 15.” I, however, experienced the much less common “freshman negative 15,” thanks to another Notre Dame tradition: Bengal Bouts. 
Not that I knew what being a boxer meant when I signed up. It sounds cliché, but until you experience a box­ing match, you really have absolutely no idea just what goes into it. It is the epit­ome of the individual sport. Once that bell rings, it is just you and the other person inside that ring: no timeouts, no substitutions and no way to escape. You’re trapped. The rush of adrenaline so completely takes over your body that a plane could land behind you and you wouldn’t notice. That rush, combined with the nerves that everyone inevitably feels in the spotlight, makes boxing the most physically demanding sport in the world. Not once have I ever left the ring feeling as though I had anything left to give in my body. 
Now, as I sit here and look back at my 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Bengal Bouts career having just fin­ished my third year in the program, I can honestly say it has been the single most influential experience I have had in my time at Notre Dame. Personally, I have given the boxing program a lot of myself over the past few years. I have given the Bouts money in the form of donations, an uncountable number of pushups and sit-ups and a hell of a lot of my time. I’ve even contributed to the blood stains that are on the canvas of the sparring ring in the boxing gym. 
However, everything that I have given to Bengal Bouts has been repaid to me in some way, and then some. Boxing has given me a sense of direction and purpose and, in college, it can be very easy to not have one. How many people swear that they are going go workout every day, and then two weeks into their resolution, they stop? Particularly as a college student, when there is nobody that can force you to do any­thing, people get lazy. As a boxer, though, you don’t have that luxury. If you miss a workout, enjoy it, but don’t be surprised if you happen to get popped in the face when you come back. 
More than that, though, Bengal Bouts gives you a chance to be part of a team; something I thought I was saying good­bye to forever when my high school days were passed. It is certainly an interesting dichotomy. In many ways boxing is the loneliest of all sports. However, during the season you train as a team and everyone who will fight goes through the same grueling workout day after day. Regardless of who comes out on top in the end, everyone has mutual respect for every other fighter in the gym because you know just how much they had to go through to get to the tournament. It is a brotherhood, some­thing that can’t just be created and cer­tainly not something that you ever can take away from anyone who has fought in the Bouts. 
The best part of the whole experi­ence, however, is the fact that I learned more than I could imagine by putting myself through the program. I’ve learned that it is better to be tall than short (that one I can’t do much about, unfortunately). I’ve learned how to han­dle disappointment. Believe me, there isn’t a worse feeling in the world than the one you get after losing a 4 minute fight after spending four months of your life training for it. I’ve learned that per­sistence can be more valuable than tal­ent. And I’ve learned (been reminded, actually) that I have the best friends and family in the world, people that took time out of their life to support what I was doing, even if they disap­proved of me doing it in the first place or if they spent the whole time hiding behind their hands. 
Boxing is not for the faint of heart. But if you have a strong urge to work extremely hard, experience an adrena­line rush like nothing you’ve ever felt before and discover more about your­self than you ever wanted to know, then maybe I’ll see you in the ring. Just don’t drop your hands. 
Andy Ziccarelli is a junior majoring in civil engineering. He can be reached at aziccare@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


OBSERVER POLL 
What are your plans for Spring Break? 
I’m too poor to go anywhere Staying here for the weather Going to Puerta Vallarta with the rest of the Senior class Home sweet home 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“A good name, like good will, is gotby many actions and lost by one.” 
Lord JeffreyScottish judge 
The Observer 




Viewpoint 
Wednesday, February 24, 2010 page 9 
Putting people first 
The theme of this year’s Human Development Conference at Notre Dame is “People, Power and Pragmatism: The Future of Development in Our Changing World.” Just like in the title of the con­ference, I believe that we need to put Jeremy people first in the Tamargo field of human 
Guest
development. Seemingly, this Columnist should not be a hard task for us. In the era of globalization, we are more connected than ever to the world around us. Think of how much time we spend on our cell phones, e-mail, Twitter and Facebook (to name but a few). This technology ensures that we are always capable of being instantly connected to friends and family, whether they are a few feet from us or half a world away. In theory, we all should be masters of the art of relationships. Putting people first in relationships should be as natural as 
our impulse to check our e-mail inbox every time we open the laptop. 
Human development should also come natural to us as students at the University of Notre Dame. Father Jenkins espouses the “distinctive mis­sion” of Notre Dame to be a shining example of Christ’s love in the world through our service to humanity. Catholic Social Tradition provides us with the framework of how to live out of our faith as disciples of Jesus Christ. Principles such as the “life and dignity of the human person” and the “preferential option for the poor” are supposed to be the norm in all that we do. According to the University’s Mission Statement, the ultimate product of a Notre Dame educa­tion is the cultivation of a student with “a sense of human solidarity and con­cern for the common good that will bear fruit as learning becomes service to jus­tice.” 
To me, it is clear that the mission of this University is inextricably linked to 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


Unforeseen effects of Revue move 
A recent tragedy has befallen the men of Keenan Hall. Over a week ago, the resi­dents of Keenan were notified that Saint Mary’s College was ending its tradition of hosting the Keenan Revue, stating that it does not align with the mission statement of our sister college. I write this letter not in anger, but rather, in extreme sorrow. Some of my closest friends attend Saint Mary’s (many of whom fervently support the Revue), and I have the utmost respect for the College. While I understand the motivations behind cutting ties with the Revue, I am deeply grieved by the reper­cussions. 
One of the greatest by-products of the Revue is that it gave Notre Dame students, especially women, a reason to wander over to Saint Mary’s and behold its under-appreciated beauty. This event was one of the few traditions between our two great schools that actually took place on Saint Mary’s campus. Now, however, the Revue will be relocated to Notre Dame’s Washington Hall, which has less than half the seating capacity of O’Laughlin Auditorium, or some other inferior venue off campus. As a result, fewer students will be able to enjoy the countless hours of hard work that Keenan residents devote to their signature event. 
The sad fact of the matter is that this travesty could have been avoided. Every year before the curtain rose on opening night, the Revue was first performed in front of a Saint Mary’s board who had the ability to censor any joke(s) they deemed inappropriate. This board effectively had the ability to veto any content that did not align with the College’s mission statement (a power which they occasionally execut­ed), but this fact that is no longer relevant. I fear that as a result of banning the Revue from Saint Mary’s campus, the show will lose some of its magnificent luster and less respect will be shown to our sister college. 
In the end, however, I trust that my brothers will band together to return the Revue to its deserved glory. Stay valiant, fellow Knights. 
Fratre in Christo, 
Andrew Balsley 
graduate student off campus Feb. 23 

An argument against research 
There was a Viewpoint debate a few weeks ago that discussed at length the reasons for which Notre Dame is not a member of the Association of American Universities (AAU) — an organization ded­icated to research. While the primary focus of the debate was why Notre Dame has not been invited to join the AAU, I want to propose something to those who are asking this question: Why, exactly, do you want Notre Dame to join the AAU? 
As a fairly small university, at which 80 percent of the enrolled students are undergraduates, Notre Dame should make undergraduate education its utmost priori­ty. I imagine that many of us, myself included, chose to attend Notre Dame because it is not a large, faceless institu­tion that readily allows research to super­sede other educational necessities. Yet, we have a President, who in his inaugural address, asserted that he is simply com­mitted to “maintaining [Notre Dame’s] tra­ditional excellence in undergraduate teaching.” 
As recently as his inauguration to his second term, University President Fr. John Jenkins has placed far more emphasis on trying to improve the research presence at Notre Dame instead of improving its undergraduate experience. The notion that Notre Dame’s goal is to merely “main­tain” the current level of undergraduate teaching at Notre Dame should be prepos­terous to all of us. Surely there are always improvements that can be made. 
Conversely, we all see daily the level at which the “research mentality” is being shoved down our throats — we need look no further than our inboxes to validate this. While I do not want to undermine the value of research, I do want to suggest that its role at Notre Dame should not be nearly as important as that of undergradu­ate education here. We, as undergradu­ates, are owed an administration that strives to better the level of undergraduate education here. Jenkins needs to revise his goals for the University. 

Justin DeRosa 
sophomore Fisher Hall Feb. 23 
the field of human development. Both entities strive to place the dignity of each and every human being is at the center of all of our efforts in this world. This weekend, the Human Development Conference will feature 64 presenters who have conducted research in 14 fields of development in 43 countries. It is a tremendous opportunity to continue to develop the “disciplined sensibility to the poverty, injustice and oppression that burden the lives of so many” that is at the center of the University’s mission. 
For me, this weekend is also an oppor­tunity to examine my own development as a human being. How are my own relationships? Is upholding the dignity of every human life the foundation of all my actions? Am I becoming the student that is described in our Mission Statement? Am I truly an example of Christ’s love in the world? When I am completely honest with myself, I always fall short of the answers that I would hope for. I would like to invite you to do your own examination this weekend. At the very heart of it all, the field of human development is a part of our “distinctive mission” to build the kingdom of God on earth. We must remember, however, that Jesus taught us that “the kingdom of God is within you” (Luke 17:21). Ultimately, authentic human development starts with me. In striving to be all that God calls me to be, I become “the light of the world” (Matthew 5:12) that exemplifies the call to selflessly “love one another” (John 13:35) in all that I do. 
Human development is truly all about people. And it starts with you. Be the light of the world and start renewing the face of the earth. 
Jeremy Tamargo is a senior engineering major serving on the conference committee. He can be contacted at jtamargo@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Experience key in SGA election 
As the current Chief of Staff at Saint Mary’s, I would like to urge all students to vote in the upcom­ing elections. It is crucial to the future of the College for our stu­dents to take an active role in choosing their leaders. These young women directly affect stu­dent life, policies and ultimately your experience at Saint Mary’s. 
That being said, I would like to endorse junior Meg Griffin and sophomore Emily Skirtich for the Student Government Association (SGA) president and vice presi­dent. Meg is this year’s SGA vice president and Emily serves as this year’s secretary. Both are extremely dedicated individuals who have the experience and the vision to lead next year’s SGA executive board. In working close­ly with these women, I have been able to see first-hand how pas­sionate they are about their lead­ership roles. They are intelligent, hard-working, and fun — really an inspiration to work with. 
This team is excited to continue and expand upon their service to the student body. Please help by voting this Thursday on PRISM starting at 8 a.m. 

Katrina Mesina 
junior Holy Cross Hall Feb. 23 


Giving thanks everyday 
In response to the letters sur­rounding the issue of pay for workers at Notre Dame, perhaps it would be wise to also reflect on what we, as individuals, can do. 
I have a part time job at Starbucks in LaFortune and I do my best to take the time to greet each customer with a friendly, “Hi, how are you today?” It is not unusual for people to ignore this greeting and bark out their order. I imagine there are similar experiences across the campus, in all the delicious eateries. Regardless if a person supports the idea of a raise, will such a raise make us feel less guilty about being, well, just plain old rude? 
That being said, I would like to thank all the food service worker 
— from the crust tosser at Sbarro to the stir-fry chefs at SDH — the food here is delicious. I don’t care what the silly complaint du jour is. I am eternally grateful for the cornucopia of cafés, my bountiful choice between two wonderful dining halls and the fact that you guys could make a flying purple people eater taste good. 
But there is another group of people on campus that I would also like to thank, and that is the Notre Dame Fire Department. I recently fell severely ill and NDFD was the first on the scene. I was unresponsive, and while being wheeled away in a stretch­er by Mishawaka EMTs, I was unable to thank these invaluable Notre Dame family members. 
So, while it is noble to request, I also recognize it may not be practical to raise the salary of every employee of Notre Dame, who I believe do their work duti­fully and perform their jobs exceedingly well, and are deserv­ing of such a raise. However, if our Catholicism has taught us one thing, let it be that thanks­giving is not just for one day a year. It is for every day — to be expressed with grace to the per­son who makes your Subway sandwich to the Notre Dame fire fighter who checks your vital signs. 
Melissa Jordan 
freshman Ryan Hall Feb. 22 
The Observer 



Scene
page 10 Wednesday, February 24, 2010 

A personality a little too shallow to make for an amiable conversation, Megan Fox fails to impress in her latest interview with W Magazine. With looks that are unquestion­ably beautiful — 
Tatiana 
dark long waves, steel blue eyes high-Spragins lighted by arched eye brows and deli-Scene Writer cate, rosy lips — Fox is a pleasant break from the Barbie blonde America loves to love. Her daring and sultry atti­tude, tattooed arms and perfect body (all of which lead to apt Angelina Jolie comparisons) make you wish for an equally mesmerizing person­ality. Unfortunately, personality does not seem to be a forte for Fox. 
After controversial comments about how “Transformers” was­n’t all that great of movie (surprise, surprise) Fox went on to star in the massive fiasco that was “Jennifer’s Body.” Luckily for her, however, that won’t be much of a problem since she recently signed a seven-figure con­tract with Armani underwear in what Fox claims will be a challenge because, not only is she “a Vargas girl” (and, when wearing lingerie, immediately “pro­vokes a pinup image”), but she has no confidence. But that’s not the problem. It’s cool when celebrities as huge and beautiful as Fox show their insecurities (they’re humans too). The problem is in her contradic­tions and noncha­lant-ness to everything. Where’s the charisma we used to find in celebri­ties? For that matter, where’s the talent? Fox herself said acting isn’t her talent. Instead, she’s “marginally talented at a lot of things.” What? What is that supposed to mean? 
Let’s go to the beginning. Fox begins her interview complaining about photo-shoots and how she hates them. Indeed, if you look at her pictures you can tell she isn’t having much fun (and likes maintaining that same facial expression … in every picture). Fox isn’t a fan of fashion either, and sticks to basic T-shirts and jeans, which is actually kind of cool. Again, normal. A little later, however, she talks about how she actively pursued acting in her youth and actually managed to get her mom to take her from Florida to L.A. to audition for a show (in which she ulti­mately got a role). A pretty determined and driven action for someone who would later say acting isn’t really her thing. Maybe saying that is better than saying she’s a natural even though her past roles haven’t been impressive (at all). Anyone remember Fox in “Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen” with Lindsay Lohan or in “Holiday in the Sun” with the Olsen twins? Both characters are equally whiny. Maybe this says something 


about what Fox can do well. She continues by saying how being a celebrity is 
such a burden. Boo Hoo. I mean, I don’t doubt this, I bet it really is 
a pain to have people follow you around, destroy your privacy and to 
become scrutinized by the public eye. What I do doubt is the legitimacy of 
her “I didn’t create this” claim. In 2008 Fox said, in an 
interview for a male magazine, 
that she once had a strip­per girlfriend who “smelled 
like angels.” Turned out this was a lie. When confront­ed about that, she replied 
“Whatever.” And 
then she talks about how very maternal she is and 
how she’s worried she’ll get caught up in everything that’s going on in her life 
and forget to have 
children “even though I would be able to pro­vide them with an amazing environment.” 
Finally, she concludes about how she can’t 
trust girls in the indus­try. Everyone seems to resent her. Maybe if she kept a different attitude, things would be a little different. All it seems from this is that she leads a somewhat lonely life, where she doesn’t like being a celebrity and doesn’t trust her talent. I think Megan Fox needs a change of attitude. And we need to be more selective in the people we admire and pay many fortunes to. Whatever happened to all the Grace Kellys and Audrey Hepburns of the world? 
The views expressed in this column 
are  those  of  the  author  and  not  
necessarily those of The Observer.  
Contact  Tatiana  Spragins  at  
tspragin@nd.edu  

The Observer 

Scene
Wednesday, February 24, 2010 page 11 

February has never flown by so fast. Usually, these 28 (sometimes 29) days creep by, stealing away all enjoyment once held in January at returning to campus and friends. Work finally begins to pile up, snow Mary Claire continues to fall, 
O’Donnell 
and the days just keep dragging. One 
Scene Writer 
enjoyable aspect of high school was always February vaca­tion, a week-long break over President’s Day instead of just a long weekend. It’s a New England phenomenon that really breaks up the monotony of February. 
But here at Notre Dame, we don’t even have three-day weekends, so the idea of a February Break is a laughable one. This year, though, there is something almost as good as February vacation to get everyone through the winter doldrums: the 2010 Olympics in Vancouver, British Columbia. 
The 21st Olympic Winter Games have provided endless entertainment and dis­traction for the past week and a half. At almost every given moment, one Olympic event or another is playing, either live or on replay, on NBC, MSNBC, USA or another NBC syndicate. From ski jump­ing to pairs skating, half pipe to two-man bobsledding, the opportunities for view­ing and cheering on the Americans are limitless. 
But why do we watch all these events? Why do we allow ourselves to spend so much time watching sports we have never before cared about in our lives? If you’ve recently found yourself transfixed for hours by men’s and women’s curling, 
you understand. The draw these ran­dom sports hold over us is inexplicable. Never before in my life have I cared 
about curling, and yet I can now explain many of the rules and 
even some of the stats from the round robin 
men’s match between the United States and 
Switzerland. I recently had a conversation with friends on this same subject. We all find our­selves entranced by sports like curling or speed skating, and we do not know why. It’s easy to understand our fascination with Shaun White and his gravity defying aerials, or the men’s Olympic hockey team and their stunning defeat of Canada, but not some other sports. 
I think that a lot of it stems from the desire to be involved. The Olympics have been a major sporting event, uniting city-states and nations, since the times of the ancient Greeks. We all, on some level, want to feel included in this international event that puts our favorite tel­evision shows on hiatus for two weeks. We all want to feel some of the power and magic sur­rounding the Olympics, the aura and his­tory. Watching every sport, no matter how boring ice dancing is compared to the men’s short program, helps us forge this deep connec­tion to the Games. 
Another thing peo­ple love about watch­ing the Olympics is whipping out their ancient and pos­sibly questionable family genealogy and basing their support for teams off of the family tree. You can’t just root for Team USA during the Olympics — though they should be your No. 1 — because sometimes the Americans do not make the competition or are not competing in the heat current­ly playing at 11 p.m. on MSNBC. 

Instead, Denmark is competing against France in women’s curling. Obviously, you choose to support Denmark because you are pretty sure that your family is 1/16th Danish (or was it 1/20th?). Or 
maybe German skaters are neck and neck with the Swedes, and you, possibly 1/16th Danish, have never forgiven the Germans for taking the state of Schleswig-
Holstein from your already tiny country. Obviously, then, you chose to throw all your support behind 
No matter your rea­
son for watching or for supporting a cer­tain team, the 2010 Winter Olympics will be there on at least 
two channels when­ever you flip on the TV, at least until 
Sunday. So thank you Shaun White, Apolo Ohno, Bode 
Miller, and all other Olympic athletes for 
helping us through February. It would have been a rough month without 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 

By GENNA McCABE 
Scene Writer 
Breaking into the music scene can be a daunting task. With lots of competition and the unpredictability of music tastes, it can be nearly impossible to make a name in the world of music. 
While this is particularly true on a large scale, musicians are often faced with simi­lar challenges even on the relatively small scale, like at a place like Notre Dame. Yet, there are always those bands that manage to stand out. The Revelin’ Family Band, a band consisting of several Notre Dame seniors and a graduate student, has man­aged to do just that. Starting out small, but gradually gaining momentum throughout the school year, The Revelin’ Family Band continues to develop a substantial fan base and play shows all around South Bend. 
The Revelin’ Family Band was formed by Senior Mitch Bradford during his sopho­more year. Since then it has existed in sev­eral different variations, but for the last year there has been a consistent lineup. It currently consists of Bradford on lead vocals and guitar, senior Brad Monroe on vocals and guitar, senior Tim Gallo on gui­tar, graduate student Joey Herzog on bass, senior Joe McLean on keyboard and senior Dave Lucas on drums. Bradford, Lucas, Gallo and Monroe met while studying abroad in London, and in the words of Monroe, “our similar tastes demanded that we play together when we returned to Notre Dame.” 
Through their jam sessions and common musical interests, the band has developed a sound Monroe describes as “the best of rock, country, and soul with pop sensibili­ty.” Playing a variety of music from Carole King to Men Without Hats, the group is constantly adding new songs to its reper­toire. Even within one show, the band can be heard playing a variety of songs, mak­ing it surprisingly difficult to pin down their genre. “Purple Rain” by Prince has become a specific favorite among the band and fans. 
“I think we feel a common catharsis [when playing “Purple Rain”] with our audience that results in a frenzy of emo­tional expression,” Monroe said. 
The Band has played at a variety of ven­ues in South Bend, most recently perform­ing at Club 23, Reckers and Legends. They have several gigs lined up for the near future, including Mulligan’s, Club Fever and another appearance at Club 23. 
For now, the band intends to continue playing together as long as possible. With all of the members graduating in the spring, it is inevitable that the band will have difficulties staying together. Still, with many of the members somewhat unclear about future plans, a tour of some sort is in discussion. If nothing else, all members of the band intend to continue playing music. 
“Even if the band doesn’t survive, the music will live on,” Monroe said. 
More immediately, fans and intrigued readers can catch Brad Monroe and Dave Lucas performing at Acousticafe Thursday at 10 p.m. in LaFortune. The duo, working under a side project “The Monroe Doctrine,” have become a staple on the Acousticafe circuit and have been known to play a variety of hits, including “Sexy Chick” by David Guetta. 
Keep an ear open for news of The Revelin’ Family Band and check them out the next time they are performing around campus. It’s a great opportunity to support local talent and take in an awesome per­formance at the same time. 

Contact Genna McCabe at gmccabe@nd.edu 

SOPHIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 
page 12 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, February 24, 2010 
NFL 
Eagles release Westbrook after eight seasons 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — Brian Westbrook could break open a game from almost anywhere on the field. 
Lined up in the slot, he could run a slant, beat a linebacker and take off with no one able to catch No. 36. His defining moment with the Philadelphia Eagles came on an 84-yard punt return that stunned the New York Giants in 2003. 
Out of the backfield, he was a 1,000-yard rusher who always kept defenses guessing 
— and flailing. 
But in his later years, it was injuries that defined Westbrook more than his dynamic offensive skills. His age, salary and lengthy list of beaten body parts led the Eagles to release him Tuesday and save the team $7.5 million due next year. 
“I think we all know that Brian is one of the all-time great Philadelphia Eagles,” coach Andy Reid said. “For what we’ve done here over the years, Brian has been just a huge part of building this pro­gram to the level that we’re at now. My heart will always be a Brian Westbrook fan as we go forward here.” 
A former All-Pro, the 5-foot­10 Westbrook led the league in yards from scrimmage in 2007 with 2,104. He rushed for 1,333 yards and accounted 12 touchdowns that season. 
But he spent much of last season on the sidelines, miss­ing eight games with a pair of concussions and an ankle injury. Westbrook had only two touchdowns in 2009. 
Reid said he called Westbrook with the news Tuesday morning. Reid said Westbrook should still have an opportunity to play for another team. Reid said he thinks Westbrook still wants to play. 
“I don’t know that for a fact, but I think he might want to do that,” Reid said. 
LeSean McCoy, who rushed for 637 yards with four touch­downs in 16 games as a rook­ie, will become Philadelphia’s No. 1 running back. 
“That’s who’s going to take the ball from here,” Reid said. 
Westbrook’s season went south on Oct. 26 when his hel­met collided with Washington linebacker London Fletcher’s right knee and he suffered a concussion. Westbrook missed the last five games after suf­fering his second concussion in three weeks against San Diego on Nov. 15. He was cleared to return for the postseason. 
He has rushed for 5,995 yards in eight seasons in Philadelphia and caught 426 passes for 3,790 yards. The 30-year-old Westbrook has scored 68 touchdowns rushing, receiving and on punt returns. 
“He had no weaknesses,” Reid said. “There wasn’t any one thing that you could pick out that he was not good at; he was brilliant. There are just certain guys that are just foot­ball smart and he was one of those guys.” 
Westbrook, a third-round pick out of Villanova in the 2002 draft, is Philadelphia’s career leader in yards from scrimmage (9,785). He also ranks second in yards rushing (5,995) behind Wilbert Montgomery and third in receptions (426) behind Harold Carmichael and Pete Retzlaff. 
He is third in team history behind Carmichael and Steve Van Buren in touchdowns and holds the franchise single-sea­son record for most scrimmage yards in a season (2,104 in 2007) and most receptions in a season (90 in 2007). 
He eclipsed the 100-yard rushing mark 20 times (includ­ing playoffs) during his career, tying for second-most in club history. 
“Brian Westbrook is one of the most electrifying players in the history of this franchise and is certainly also one of the most popular,” Eagles chair­man Jeffrey Lurie said. “He was personally one of the my favorite players to watch each and every Sunday, and his playmaking abilities, leader­ship and values will be missed.” 
Westbrook is the second high-profile running back to be released in two days following LaDainian Tomlinson being shown the door by the San Diego Chargers. Both Westbrook and Tomlinson turned 30 last summer and have been sidelined by injuries that kept them from perform­ing at the level they displayed in their primes. 
Westbrook’s signature moment came in 2003. The Eagles appeared headed to a 2-4 start on Oct. 19, when they trailed 10-7 late in the fourth quarter against the Giants. But Westbrook returned a punt 84 yards for the winning score with 1:16 left in one of the more memorable plays of the Reid era. 
He never played 16 games because of a variety of injuries to his knees, ankles, ribs and triceps. He practiced sparingly, if at all, in his final seasons. 
If Westbrook fails to sign with another team, Reid would welcome him back to the organization in an unspecified role 
“He, to me, is a Philadelphia Eagle and he’s the kind of peo­ple that you want in your organization,” he said. 
MLB 
Ricketts ready to bring Cubs into new era of prosperity 
Series since 1908. Ricketts acknowledged that could 
Associated Press 
Ricketts said if the Cubs are in take some work. 
MESA, Ariz. — Tom Ricketts contention around the trade “That’s rough, right? Because once sat in the bleachers at deadline, it’s possible they would you do sometimes let your fan Wrigley Field, cheering for the spend the money to bring in a hat take over,” he said. “The fact Chicago Cubs. On Tuesday, with player needed to make a playoff is, it’s a pretty comfortable bal­the players gathered around him push. ance for us. You let the guys like in the spring training weight Manager Lou Piniella sounded (general manger) Jim (Hendry) room, he addressed the team confident that would happen. and Lou do their jobs and every-that his family now owns. “The fact they are going to thing will take care of itself after 
His message was simple: He involved and visible and the fact that.” and his family will be around and they want to win and are very First baseman Derrek Lee said do everything possible to help the competitive, and I’m sure if we it’s nice to have a face with own-Cubs win. get in position during the course ership instead of a corporation. 
“If there is anything we can do of the summer and we need “I think it will help, someone better, let us know,” Ricketts said something, there’s a darn good you can identify with and speak he told the players. chance they’ll step forward,” to,” Lee said. “I already got a 
For his part, Ricketts is already Piniella said. chance to speak with him at the taking steps. “The Ricketts are going to be convention and he was asking 
There are new upgrades at good for Chicago and for the different questions and it was Wrigley Field, including an Chicago Cubs,” added Piniella, nice. We never really had that.” improved clubhouse and weight who is in the last year of his con-The Cubs had considered mov­rooms, a new players’ lounge, a tract. “This is not just a one-year ing their spring training opera-new club in the outfield and bet-or two-year thing. They want to tion to Florida before deciding to ter restrooms for fans. The keep this team in their family for remain in Mesa with the promise Ricketts also raised ticket prices a long, long time.” of a new stadium. on some seats at the storied sta-The $845 million sale of the An Arizona legislative commit-White Sox’s Jerry Reinsdorf. Castro batted .299 combined dium. Cubs, Wrigley Field and other tee has approved a $1 surcharge “I’m not going to talk about any last year at Class A and Double A 
“Obviously Wrigley needs a lot assets from the Tribune Co. to on each auto rental in the of that,” Ricketts said. “I think we and then hit .376 in the Arizona of love and a lot of help over the the family of billionaire Joe Phoenix area and an 8 percent are very confident we’ll get a Fall League. next few years,” Ricketts said. Ricketts was completed in surcharge on tickets to all spring solution that works for everybody Could he make the big league “That will be very challenging. October, more than 2½ years training games played in down here.” team at such a young age as a Other than that, we feel the pres-after the baseball franchise went Maricopa County to help pay for One of the biggest buzzes of the non-roster invitee? Stay tuned. sure to produce on some winning on the market. an $84 million complex. The so-first day of camp surrounded 19-“I want to do what I have been teams and that will be something Asked how he would separate called Cubs tax is opposed by year-old shortstop Starlin Castro. doing, play the game, enjoy the that is always with us.” his ownership responsibilities some owners of other teams in Piniella said Castro reminded game, practice hard,” Castro said 
The Cubs haven’t won a World from his passion as a fan, Tom the Cactus League, including the him of a young Edgar Renteria. through a translator. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid.  The 
charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Faculty/grad students. 2 bdrm, 2.5 CONSIDERING ADOPTION? ND Saving someone's life is like falling I ain't no freakin' monument to jus­bath, LR, DR, FR, utility room. 2-car ALUMS hoping to adopt. Please in love. The best drug in the world. tice! I lost my hand! I lost my bride!FOR RENT attached garage. Security system. PERSONAL visit our website For days, sometimes weeks after-Johnny has his hand! Johnny has 
Available now. 262-332-0015. http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro-wards, you walk the streets, making his bride! You want me to take my Off-Campus housing 2010-11 and Shown by appt. 1616 E. Colfax. file.net. infinite whatever you see. Once, for heartache, put it away and forget? 2011/12. Irish Crossings, Dublin ———————————————— UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do ———————————————— a few weeks, I couldn't feel the ———————————————— Village, Wexford Place. Also a few not go it alone. Notre Dame has If you or someone you care about earth — everything I touched There are three kinds of pipe. houses and Villas. Some furnished. many resources in place to assist has been sexually assaulted, we became lighter. Horns played in my There's aluminum, which is Call 574-298-4206. CES Property FOR SALE you. If you or someone you love can help. For more information, visit shoes. Flowers fell from my pock-garbage. There's bronze, which is Management needs confidential support or assis-Notre Dame's website: ets. You wonder if you've become pretty good, unless something goes 
P/T WORK - $10/HR FOR INDIE tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at http.csap.nd.edu immortal, as if you've saved your wrong. And something always goes ———————————————— FILM CO. Looking for ND student to 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For ———————————————— own life as well. God has passed wrong. Then, there's copper, which be student ambassador for NYC more information, visit ND's web Dr. Hazmat: I thought you said this through you. Why deny it, that for a is the only pipe I use. It costs gradrentals.viewwork.com ind. film co. Email contact@livefree-site: http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu guy was dead. moment there, why deny that for a money. It costs money because it media.com for details. Frank Pierce: He got better. moment there, God was you? saves money. ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————‚ ———————————————— ———————————————— ———————————————— 


Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Wednesday, February 24, 2010 
page 13 
NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball AP Poll 
team previous 
OLYMPICS 

Bode ‘right there,’but skis out of giant slalom 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 Virginia Tennessee Ohio State Texas USC UCLA Florida Stanford Kentucky Georgia Louisville Mississippi Baylor Illinois Pepperdine Wake Forest Texas A&M Florida State Virginia Tech Alabama Duke North Carolina Rice Arizona Washington 
6 4 2 8 1 3 12 9 10 7 16 11 5 13 14 15 17 18 20 19 22 21 NR 23 24 
NCAA Division I Women’s Basketball AP Poll 
team  previous  
1  Connecticut  1  
2  Stanford  2  
3  Nebraska  3  
4  Tennessee  5  
5  Xavier  6  
6  Duke  8  
7  NOTRE DAME  4  
8  West Virginia  9  
9  Florida State  10  
10  Ohio State  7  
11  Oklahoma  11  
12  Texas A&M  15  
13  Georgetown  14  
14  Texas  12  
15  Iowa State  13  
16  Kentucky  16  
17  Baylor  18  
18  St. John’s (N.Y.)  22  
19  Gonzaga  21  
20  LSU  23  
21  Virginia  NR  
22  Georgia Tech  14  
23  Oklahoma State  17  
24  Georgia  20  
25  Hartford  NR  

Associated Press 
WHISTLER, British Columbia — Bode Miller makes no apologies for his high-risk, high-reward style. It’s what earned him three medals in the first three races at the Vancouver Olympics, and what caused him to ski out in the giant slalom on Tuesday. 
“I’m taking more risk than everyone else. That’s partly why I’m able to get medals. It looks easy when you make it,” Miller told The Associated Press in an interview after missing out on becoming the first man to win four Alpine medals at one Winter Games. 
“When you crash like today, it’s like, ‘Oh, huh?’ I did a good job today, too,” Miller continued. “I was right there. I was right on the edge.” 
He’s constantly on the accelerator going down the mountain, taking takes chances few others would, and that gambler’s mental­ity has paid off richly for him in Whistler. 
Until Tuesday, of course, when his attacking nature cost him. The other side of Miller surfaced, the one that was on display in Turin four years ago. 
Miller chalked up his failure to complete the first run of the giant slalom to his aggressiveness and intensity. 
Losing time on the upper section of the course, where he narrowly avoid­ed a crash, he tried to make it up by going faster on the bottom. 
This time, the 32-year­old from Franconia, N.H., couldn’t correct his line with that much speed. He came out of a right-hand gate in the second half of his run, and simply could-n’t bring it around in time for the next gate. He said he hooked his glove on a gate and “that’s all there is to it.” 
Miller also told the AP that he had trouble picking up the bumps on the course because of the overcast conditions. 
“This light — I knew I had an issue this morning. 
I’m not one of the better skiers in flat light. I tend to move a lot more,” Miller said. “Some of those guys are so squared up and solid, the bad light doesn’t affect them that bad. … I hit any of those little bumps while I’m moving, if I can’t see them, I blow out.” 
Miller blew off the media after his run. He elected to ski down the hill rather than stopping in the inter­view area, as skiers typi­cally do after finishing a race. 
With his giant slalom day over, Miller was intent on sneaking in some rest. He has one final chance, in Saturday’s slalom, to add a fourth medal. 
IN BRIEF 
Report: Woods apologizes to parents at preschool 
ORLANDO, Fla. — Tiger Woods has offered another apology, this time to parents of children at the preschool that his 2-year-old daughter attends, an Orlando tele­vision station reported Tuesday. 
WFTV reported on its Web site that it has obtained a letter that Woods and his wife, Elin, wrote to parents of children attending Premier Academy to apologize for increased media scrutiny around the school. 
“We hope that the paparazzi will find something better to do with their time in the near future,” the letter said. 
Media coverage around Woods and his family has been intense since the Nov. 27 accident outside his home led to revelations that the world’s No. 1 golfer had been cheating on his wife. 
Chargers’ Jackson pleads guilty to DUI charge 
SAN DIEGO — Chargers Pro Bowl wide receiver Vincent Jackson pleaded guilty to his second DUI charge. He has been sentenced to four days in jail and five years of probation. 
Because it was his second DUI conviction, Jackson also will be subject to the NFL’s personal con­duct policy and likely will face at least a one-game suspension next season. Jackson pleaded guilty in a 2006 DUI case and was on proba­tion when he was arrested again in January 2009, just days before a playoff loss at Pittsburgh. 
City Attorney’s Office spokes ­woman Gina Coburn said Jackson was given the standard sentence for a DUI with one prior offense. This includes two penalties: a $2,408 fine and 10 days total of public service. 
Wizards Howard tears ACL, out for season 
WASHINGTON — The Washington Wizards said Tuesday that forward Josh Howard will miss the remain­der of the season after tearing the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee. 
Howard was injured Monday night in Washington’s win over the Chicago Bulls, only his fourth game with the Wizards since being acquired from Dallas in a seven-player trade on Feb. 13. He collided with the Bulls’ Flip Murray(notes) with 4:23 to play in the first quarter and stayed on the floor for a minute before being helped off the court by two trainers. 
Howard started three games for Washington and scored 14.5 points a game to help the Wizards go 3-1 
since the de al, which al so  sent  
starter  Caron  B ut ler  t o  th e  
Mavericks.  



around the dial 
NCAA Men’s Basketball 
Pittsburgh at Notre Dame 7 p.m., ESPN 
NBA Basketball 
Lakers at Mavericks 9 p.m., ESPN 
page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 24, 2010 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Michigan accused of major recruiting violations 
Associated Press 
ANN ARBOR, Mich. — The NCAA is accusing Michigan Wolverines of five potentially major rules violations under coach Rich Rodriguez, who admitted making “mistakes” but will be back for a third try at putting the Wolverines back into the national title hunt. 
Incoming athletic director David Brandon disclosed the NCAA conclusions Tuesday, while expressing full support for his coach, who is just 8-16 in two seasons heading the nation’s winningest football program. 
“Rich Rodriguez is our foot­ball coach, and he will be our football coach next year,” Brandon said. 
In its notice of allegations — which Michigan received Monday — the NCAA said Rodriguez “failed to promote an atmosphere of compliance within the football program.” He tracked neither what his staff was doing nor whether his players were following NCAA rules, particularly those limiting the time spent on practice and football-related activities, the report said. 
It also said the athletics department failed to make sure its football program was complying with NCAA regula­tions. Brandon said the department “clearly made mistakes,” but “there was no charge of loss of institutional control” — an allegation that in previous cases has led to severe NCAA sanctions for other schools. 
An accompanying letter from the NCAA to university President Mary Sue Coleman said Michigan “should under­stand that all of the alleged violations set forth in the doc­ument” are considered to be “potential major violations of NCAA legislation, unless des­ignated as secondary.” 
Brandon said he wasn’t sure he understood “the difference between ‘major’ and ‘minor’ and ‘secondary’ and ‘prima­ry.’“ 
“They spell it out very specifically in their own lan­guage,” he said. 
Another possible problem for Michigan is that it could be subject to the NCAA’s “repeat violator rule” because it was sanctioned in 2003 for wrongdoing within the basket­ball program. 
“We will make all necessary changes,” Coleman said. “What we will not do is make excuses.” 
Michigan has 90 days to respond and will appear at an NCAA hearing on infractions in August. The school will see how its internal investigation matches up with the NCAA findings and will consider implementing self-imposed sanctions, a move that could reduce NCAA penalties. 
The NCAA said last October that it was looking into the Wolverine program following a report in the Detroit Free Press citing anonymous foot­ball players that said Michigan exceeded NCAA lim­its regarding practices and workouts in 2008 and 2009. 
Rodriguez, who signed a six-year deal worth $2.5 million per season, tearfully defended his program just five days before the season-opener, say­ing he and his staff have fol­lowed the rules. He suggested the complaints were an attempt to “tear up” his rebuilding effort following a 3-9 season. 
On Tuesday, the coach said if the football staff misinter­preted NCAA rules, “That’s on us.” 
“We’re looking at it to see why we misinterpreted and why we made mistakes,” he said. 
NCAA regulations allow players to spend eight hours a week on mandatory workouts during the offseason. Players told the Free Press they spent two to three times that amount on required workouts, though the NCAA report released Tuesday said players more often exceeded the limit by two hours per week. 
The players also said the amount of time they spent on football activities during the season exceeded the weekly limit of 20 hours and often exceeded the daily limit of four hours. They said football staff often watched offseason scrimmages that are supposed to be voluntary. 
Near the end of last season, the school released embar­rassing details of an internal audit that discovered Rodriguez’s team failed to file forms tracking how much time players spent on football during his first season and the following offseason. 
The audit noted “a concern” that the football program failed to file monthly forms created by the school to com­ply with NCAA rules by track­ing how much players work out and practice. 
The school report did not find issues of noncompliance 
— a key issue for NCAA inves­tigators — but acknowledged the practice logs for football were not available to be reviewed when the audit was conducted. The forms since had been turned in on a time­ly basis, according to the school. 
“My reading of the situation is we had a breakdown of communication,” Brandon said Tuesday. “We found we were not being vigilant in the way those [time records] were being filled and managed.” 
The time record system that the football staff designed “was too cumbersome to man­age” and is being changed. 
The decision to hold the infractions hearing in August means Michigan will have a distraction just as the Wolverines are getting set to kick off a new season in their refurbished stadium. 
Brandon, who takes over as athletic director on March 8, called Tuesday “a tough day” and said the university was taking “full responsibility for those events that brought us to this point.” 
“We will dedicate ourselves to learning from this and doing everything we can to prevent it from happening again in the future,” said Brandon, the outgoing chair­man and CEO of Domino’s Pizza. 
Rodriguez stumbled to a 3-9 season in his debut at Michigan, the team’s first los­ing season since the late 1960s and his 4-0 Wolverines stumbled down the stretch last season, leading to specu­lation about his tenure in Ann Arbor. 
According to his contract, Rodriguez can be fired for cause if the NCAA, the Big Ten or the school determines he has committed a major vio­lation of NCAA rules or he has intentionally committed any other type of violation of NCAA rules. 

Wednesday, February 24, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 24, 2010 
Results continued from page 16 Both landed solid shots back  Healy went down. At that point, Burns celebrated the fight as his and did indeed win in a unanimous decision. John ‘Papi’ Tchoula def. Luke  corner with one counterpunch. That’s where it ended. Burroughs sent a flurry of body punches that landed with a thud in the ribcage of Latham. When Latham slid his arms  MLB Phils’ Werth hopes to  
and forth in the third round, and neither was fazed by shots to the head. After more of the  Scullion Before the opening bell, it was clear Tchoula would need  down to cover, Burroughs pounded him a few times before the referee stopped the  build on breakout year  
same back and forth action,  to overcome a distinct disad­ fight less than 20 seconds after  
Straccia landed a good left to  vantage in height and reach in  the opening bell.  with that when it comes. It’s Associated Press  
the chin. Despite Straccia’s  order to top Scullion, an MBA  not something I’m going to be  
constant attempts to deal a  student.  Kevin ‘The Long Beach  CLEARWATER, Fla. — focused on. Really, I’m here to  
blow that would leave Wallace  By staying low and in close,  Lumberjack’ Crepeau def.  Sporting a thick, scraggly play baseball, play the game  
unsteady, Wallace never left  Tchoula effectively nullified  David ‘Dutch’ Stedman  beard and long hair flowing hard, play the game the right  
himself in a position in which  Scullion’s advantage and quick- In a much closer battle than  beneath his baseball cap, way and win.”  
Straccia could do so, and  ly took over the fight. Tchoula  the bout before it, the two  Jayson Werth caused a stir Phillies general manager  
Wallace claimed the unani­ was on the offensive nearly the  southpaws had a great test of  with his appearance on Ruben Amaro Jr. already has  
mous decision.  entire fight, and Scullion’s only  mettle. The bout started with  Monday. After a breakout sea-warned that the team isn’t  
option was to try to counter in  an exchange that went both  son with the Philadelphia going to be able to re-sign all  
205 pounds  the few instances in which  ways for a while, but when the  Phillies last year, Werth’s per-of its star players. Since win- 
Tchoula left himself unsteady  junior Crepeau landed vicious a  formance should get most of ning the World Series in 2008,  
Pat ‘Tigers love pepper, they  after an attack. Although  left hook to the body, senior  the attention. Philadelphia has given several  
hate cinnamon’ Burns def.  Scullion made several impres- Stedman hit the mat.  Werth batted .268 with 36 players multiyear deals.  
Jason Healy  sive counterattacks and even  In the second, Crepeau came  homers, 99 RBIs and 20 steals, “I know how much they’re  
The first round between sen- made it appear that he would  back out on the offensive.  earning a trip to the All-Star spending is an issue and I think  
ior Burns and junior Healy was  make a comeback, Tchoula  Stedman tried to counter, but  game in his first full season as it’s always an issue no matter  
relatively slow. Each wanted to  never really lost control and  did so ineffectively. After blow  a regular. The right fielder hit what the situation is,” Werth  
be patient and pick and choose  continued to work the body  to the chest, Stedman stag­ .275 with seven homers and 13 said. “I definitely think that  
their spots carefully. With both  and occasionally go after the  gered again. But Stedman kept  RBIs in the postseason as the will play a part of it going for- 
adopting low, wide stances,  head with reaching jabs.  battling back. After the bell  Phillies fell two wins short of ward. But that’s something that  
neither could attack well  Tchoula advanced to the finals  rang to start the third,  repeating as World Series my agent and the team will  
enough to knock the other off- via a unanimous decision.  Stedman got right in on  champions. work out and hopefully it will  
balance.  Crepeau and landed three con- If Werth puts up similar num­work out and I’ll be in  
At the outset of the second,  Heavyweight  secutive left hands to the body,  bers this year, he can really Philadelphia for a long time  
Healy landed a solid left, and  seemingly knocking the air out  cash in. He’s entering the final and continue to play with these  
then a few strong body shots as  Will ‘at the Edge of Darkness’  of Crepeau. Although Crepeau  year of a $10 million, two-year guys. The game of baseball is  
Burns covered. After a stop- Burroughs def. Timothy  was ahead in the fight for all  deal. It’s uncertain whether the weird like that. Guys come out  
page, Burns came out strong  Latham  three rounds, he just did not  Phillies will be able to afford and go. But with our situation  
and landed a solid right hook  In a downright dominating  have anything left in the tank  Werth when he becomes a free here, we’ve had a lot of guys  
to end the round.  performance from Burroughs,  to finish Stedman off, but still  agent next winter. stay. I’m already a part of  
In the third, the tempo  the Law student never really  won in a split decision.  Werth made it clear he does-something special here and  
moved up a notch. With each  had a doubt in his mind that he  n’t want his contract situation have been for a few years, but  
fighter sensing that he needed  was going to put an end to sen- Contact Chris Allen at  to become an issue and he’s to continue that would be awe- 
to distance himself on the  ior Latham’s attempt at an  callen10@nd.edu, Megan  not going to keep discussing it. some.”  
scorecard, the two broke out of  upset. After Latham tried to  Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu,  “This is the first time I’ve As for his new look, Werth  
the rigidity of their styles. After  put Burroughs on his heels  Kaitlyn Murphy at  been in a situation of dealing didn’t want to explain.  
two good 1-2 combos with a  with a quick combo right after  kmurph28@nd.edu, Allan  with a long-term deal and “He’s a cross between Jesus  
quick right and a swooping  the opening bell, a combo that  Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu and  extensions and all that,” Werth Christ and the Geico  
right, Burns landed one more  Burroughs simply absorbed,  Matthew Robison at  said. “This is the first time I’ve Caveman,” teammate Brad  
heavy right to the head and  Burroughs put Latham in the  mrobison@nd.edu  had that opportunity. We’ll deal Lidge said.  


Fights 
continued from page 17 
Matthew ‘Cool and Tough’ Paletta def. Michael ‘Nobody Puts Baby in a Corner’ Urciouli 
Both fighters began the fight biding their time before a flurry of punches opened the sparring, with Urciouli landing the majority. The fight was stopped midway through the first round when the junior Urciouli began bleeding when a previous cut opened up. 
The senior Paletta landed more punches than Urciouli at the start of the second round, which was interrupted twice for blood on Urciouli. 
In the third round, Urciouli threw lots of punches; despite the volume, Paletta landed more solid punches, forcing the match to be stopped again. The fight continued to be back-and-forth until Paletta landed a body-head­body combination that rattled Urciouli and drew blood again. The referee stopped the match there with 18 sec­onds left, deciding the match in Paletta’s favor. 
180 pounds 
Mike Doran def. Giacomo ‘Il Capo’ Minafra 
Doran and Minafra began tentatively, with few punches thrown. The first round was marked by many dodges from each fighter, leading to many missed punches. The end of the round was back-and-forth with combinations from each fighter, with the junior Doran landing the last before the bell. 
The sophomore Minafra attacked Doran aggressively at the beginning of the sec­ond round. As the round pro­gressed Doran became more aggressive while Minafra picked his opportunities; at one point, Doran caught Minafra off balance and knocked Minafra to the mat. 
The third round was opened by punches from Doran, who forced Minafra into a defensive strategy. Doran parlayed his momen­tum from the second-round knockdown into a unanimous decision victory. 
Dominic ‘Warsaw War Hammer ’ Golab def. Nicholas ‘It’s-a ME-a’ Ponzio 
The senior Ponzio came out and tried to be the aggressor right away, but the balanced junior Golab would not let it happen. Golab had a decided advantage in height and reach and used it to his bene­fit well. When Ponzio wanted to get in on him and go to the body, Golab fired back with a quick counter, or eluded his attacks and make attempts of his own. Ponzio landed a good amount of shots to both the body and head, but Golab, a junior, absorbed everything thrown at him with grace and made sure he was always in control. By maintaining a constantly balanced, efficient approach that never put him in a vulnerable position, Golab outlasted Ponzio and eventually claimed the unani­mous decision to advance to the final. 
189 pounds 
Bernardo ‘Blue’ Garcia def. Jim Hasson 
The fight between the two juniors was a bout of two very similar styles, two tall fighters using a stiff left-handed jab to set up a straight right that went to the head of the oppo­nent. At the end of the first round, the two exchanged a flurry of punches that put both fighters off-balance, and the two ended up in a heap on the map. For rest of the fight, each was patient, picking and choosing their spots, when to attack, when to counter. 
Finally, in the third round, Hasson charged at Garcia with a punch and a push, sending Garcia flying through the ropes, over the table, and onto the floor. Garcia was unhurt and unfazed, however, and came back into the fight with a renewed intensity. After an even bout all the way through, Garcia won in a split decision. 
Timothy Wallace def. William ‘The Italian Stallion’ Straccia 
Both juniors came out with a patient approach before Straccia unleashed a combina­tion of punches. Wallace came back quickly, however, and landed a combo of his own. 
In the second round, the two participated in equal exchanges for most of the round. Straccia tried to attack several times, but missed. Wallace, on the other hand, remained hesitant, unwilling to fall into a trap. 
see RESULTS/page 15 
ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish edge Hofstra in season opener 
By KEVIN BALDWIN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish return from Long Island undefeated following their season-opening victory against Hofstra yesterday. The Irish fought through the rain and cold to emerge ahead of the Pride by a single goal, 13-12. 
Though the momentum swung back and forth between the two teams throughout the first half, the Irish showed their depth on offense by setting up plays with numerous players put­ting points on the board. Going into halftime tied at seven goals apiece, the two evenly matched teams waged a defensive battle throughout the much of the second half. 
After securing the lead on an unassisted goal by junior midfielder Shaylyn Blaney, the Irish were able to fend off the Pride for the final gruel­ing 10 minutes. 
“I’m really pleased with the win, its always going to be tough [against Hofstra] but they didn’t get flustered when they were down and they han­dled it really well,” Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. 
Blaney set the tone offen­sively, scoring six of the team’s 13 goals, including the game-winner. Junior Jackie Doherty and sophomore Megan Sullivan put on a clinic at defense with some big plays in the second half. 
Freshman goalkeeper Ellie Hilling was crucial to the team’s defensive effort, play­ing the full 60 minutes in the net while tallying seven saves in her first performance at the collegiate level. 
“Two years ago it was a one goal win too, they’re a really well coached team,” said Coyne. “I’m happy with the win, it shows our experience and confidence.” 
The Irish will host their home opener against Duquesne on Saturday in the Loftus Center at 6 p.m. 
Contact Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwi2@nd.edu 


Wednesday, February 24, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
sive abilities usually cut them Thomas ‘Shake and Bake’ Bachinskas began the second Toward the end of the largely-short before Heath could gain the Enzweiler round with just as much fire as the even first round between the sen-
Bouts 
upper hand. Junior Enzweiler had a clear first, but again, the senior Slaney ior fighters, Hopke began to estab-In the third, Johnston went to height advantage, giving him the took control at the end of the sec-lish himself as the stronger of the 
continued from page 20 
the jab and wore Heath out, confidence to begin the match ond. The energy from both sides two after completing a series of defensive, and he spent a good coasting to a unanimous victory. with energy, but the sophomore died down slightly in the third jabs to the head that put Laux on portion of the second round con-Ortenzio fought back with tech-round, but Slaney held strong, the defensive. trolling the action. Albert Toscano def. Nick nique. Both fighters went on the landing a few more punches In the second round, Laux came 
Robillard opened the third ‘Bronco’ Bortolotti offensive in the second round, and despite his fatigue than out strong but Hopke returned his round punching, nearly knocking The two sophomores went toe-while both ended up worse for the Bachinskas managed to. Via split aggressiveness with a series of down Cugliari, but ultimately to-toe for three rounds as Toscano wear, neither took an advantage decision, Slaney advanced to the combinations to the head. Hopke Cugliari grounded himself with ultimately bested Bortolotti in a into the third round. Ortenzio uti-finals. darted around the ring effectively two strong hooks and earning the unanimous decision in this ener-lized the height disparity well in and utilized his height to his unanimous victory. getic bout. The pair fought an even the third, delivering a series of Adam ‘Mad’ Cowden advantage. 
first round as both of them came uppercuts to Enzweiler. In the end, ‘Disease’ def. Kyle ‘No Name Hopke came out strong once Michael ‘The Silver City Slugger’ out riding a wave of emotion from Ortenzio won the very close fight Just Game’ Kober again in the third round and Sayles def. Nicholas ‘The their large cheering sections. by split decision. Sophomore Cowden took no proved that he would not be taken Guillotine’ Goode Both fighters went right back to mercy in the first round, repeated-over by fatigue. He landed multi-
Senior captain Sayles earned a work early in the second, as 151 pounds ly finding contact and cornering ple controlled jabs to the head in split decision over the bigger Toscano’s relentless left hook freshman and fellow Sorin resi-the final seconds of the third Goode, a junior, to return to the started to hit consistently while Tim ‘The Slayer’ Thayer def. dent Kober. Kober refused to give round, which convinced the judges finals. Sayles began the fight by Bortolotti attempted to use his Tommy ‘The Hebrew Hammer’ in, finding the sophomore’s face on that he was deserving of a unani­evading Goode’s punches and jab-long jab to keep him at a distance. Schanzer multiple occasions. Kober began mous victory. bing repeatedly to the body. Sayles In the third round Bortolotti Senior captain Thayer opened the second round on a better foot, ended up pounding Goode’s body appeared to turn the tide, striking the fight on the offensive, deliver-but Cowden’s experience showed 166 pounds into the corner, though Goode suc-with a number of punches and ing continuous jabs to his class-through with his ability to move cessfully tied up Sayles to stop him staying on the offensive. Toscano mate’s jaw. Schanzer returned the quickly and deliver jabs in key Jason ‘Pretty Boy’ Miller def. whenever he got on a roll. adapted and rode his uppercut, favor, beginning the second round locations. After receiving aid to Matthew Gimlett 
In the final round, Goode closed which he connected with often to with intensity. Control of the match stop a bloodied nose, Cowden The first round opened with very strong, maintaining his ener-help him wrap up the unanimous switched back and forth, but forced Kober into the ropes and Gimlett focused on going low and gy against the quicker Sayles and decision. Thayer’s strength behind his maintained control of the third attacking Miller’s body, but Miller landing a number of different punches could not be matched. He round. In the end, Cowden’s expe-was able to counter and land powerful hooks to the head. Sayles 147 pounds delivered blow after blow, many of rience earned him a spot in the punches when his senior class-tripped and fell towards the end of which could be heard from the finals via a split decision. mate Gimlett crouched in prepara­the round, but ultimately the Kieran Bulger def. Matthew stands. Thayer took the match in a tion for a body shot. advantage in punches landed Lemanski unanimous decision. 160 pounds The second round was much throughout the bout was enough The senior Bulger advanced the more patient; both fighters tested to pull out the split decision. finals after stalling in the semifi-Bobby Powers def. Andrew John ‘My Body is a Wonderland’ each other early and not many big 
nals last year by besting the soph-Kristensen Maier def. Kevin Goodwin punches were landed. For a good 140 pounds omore Lemanski in a unanimous Sophomore Kristensen ended Captain Maier established him-part of the round, both fighters 
decision. The fight took on a the first round with the advantage, self as the dominant force early in bided their time before Miller Michael Johnston def. Brian ‘The defensive pace early on as each but junior Powers started the sec-the first round in the fight between unleashed another late-round Good Thief’ Heath fighter held back their punches ond round by knocking Kristensen the two seniors. Maier’s significant combination that drove Gimlett 
The two seniors came out with and looked to pounce whenever off his feet and nearly out of the height advantage proved trouble-into the corner. differing styles, and ultimately their opponent let down. ring twice in a row. These two some for Goodwin, as it allowed The third round was markedly Johnston prevailed with a unani-Bulger rode the momentum consecutive hits caused the referee him the angle to land punches to more energetic. Miller would land mous victory. Johnston landed a from a strong end of the opening to call the match with 1:05 left in Goodwin’s head and body. two punches, but Gimlett would number of combinations in the round into the second, dodging a the second round, giving Powers The second round saw a similar come right back, adding a couple first round, which Heath couldn’t flurry of punches from Lemanski the win. pattern as the first, as Goodwin shots of his own. In the end, counter with enough punches to and countering with headshots. was left on the defensive while Miller’s combinations prevailed bring the momentum back in his The third round was a slow 155 pounds Maier danced around the ring and over Gimlett’s sneaky punches as favor. affair, as both fighters were visibly proved to be quick on his feet. Miller prevailed by split decision. 
Johnston settled into a nice spent from the furious second Ryan ‘Dayman’ Slaney In the third round, Goodwin rhythm in the second round, mov-round. Bulger’s statement in the def. Andrew Bachinskas landed solid blows to Maier’s head Gregory Bennett def. Nicholas ing shiftily around the ring and second round proved to be enough Senior Bachinskas brought the and had energy saved up to make Severyn striking at will whenever Heath to win him the unanimous deci-heat as soon as the bell rang, but a strong last effort. Despite Bennett displayed an extremely opened himself up to an attack. sion. midway through the first round Goodwin’s initial offensive aggressive mentality early, moving Heath mounted a couple of com-Slaney got into the match, deliver-attempts, Maier landed jabs to in and out, looking for quick eva­bos but Johnston’s strong defen-Kevin ‘DiGiornio’ Ortenzio def. ing a series of heavy blows. Goodwin’s head and bloodied his sions and jabs. The first round 
nose. Maier was awarded the went back and forth between the match by unanimous decision. fighters until the junior Severyn 
landed a combination on the soph-Alex ‘Gatito Loco’ Oloriz def. omore in the corner at the end of Daniel ‘Cabbage Patch’ the first round. Chapman At the start of the second round, 
Oloriz unleashed a flurry of Bennett again came out with near-punches to open the first round reckless abandon. Severyn began and pinned Chapman against the relying more and more on 1-2 ropes to set the tone for an aggres-punches in a fight that became sive, hard-fought match. As the extremely chippy. first round continued both boxers In the third round the bout went took turns throwing combinations back and forth; the fighters traded and exhibited strength and inten-punches and got tangled up. In a sity. They went punch for punch to neck-and-neck fight, the judges the body and head. took Bennett’s side in a split deci-
Oloriz came out strong in the sion. second round and unleashed a flurry of jabs to Chapman’s head. 173 pounds Oloriz exhibited constant energy and placed many well-timed Alex Kissinger def. Kevin ‘The punches. In the third round, the Night Man’ Kray Oloriz pinned Chapman against Kissinger opened on the attack, the ropes and set the tone for the but Kray also landed punches win by unanimous decision. early. Kissinger utilized his strate­
gy of driving the junior into the 163 pounds ropes in the first round. Kray 
moved constantly, dancing around Jordan Bucci def. Ryan ‘The the ring while throwing occasional Show Stopper’ Shestak punches, hoping to frustrate the 
The two seniors fought an even senior. match bell-to-bell, as both fighters As the second round began, refused to let up throughout the Kissinger again attacked Kray into three rounds. The first round saw the ropes; each time Kray moved an even showing from both box-off the ropes, he played a defen­ers. In the second round, both sive game. In the latter part of the fighters engaged in multiple series round, Kray abandoned throwing of jabs and combinations. still punches and evaded Kissinger. remaining close. Kissinger continued to play the 
Each fighter refused to tire. In role of the aggressor and dictate the third round, Bucci came out the fight in the third round. He strong and landed multiple punch-repeatedly drove Kray to the es to Shestak’s body. Shestak ropes, where he would throw flur­returned the favor by pinning ries of punches. Near the end of Bucci against the ropes and land-the round Kissinger overpowered ed one staggering blow to Bucci’s Kray at the ropes to the point face. The judges ultimately award-where Kray nearly fell out of the ed Bucci the split decision and a ring. In the end, Kissinger won by return trip to the finals. unanimous decision. 
Matt Hopke def. Caleb Laux see FIGHTS/page 16 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 24, 2010 
Seniors 
continued from page 20 
Lindsay Schrader played in her first game since spraining her left ankle on Feb. 14. In 20 minutes of action, she scored 17 points and grabbed six rebounds. 
Missing the game “was not even a question,” she said. 
Senior captain Ashley Barlow added 11 points, three rebounds and two steals. 
Senior walk-on and crowd-favorite Alena Christiansen, play­ing in her first career start, grabbed the first early in the game. 
“I thought, ‘Oh, gosh, we look like we have the past couple of our games,’ where were feet were in mud defensively,” McGraw said. 
A layup by Williamson and the first of Lechlitner’s four 3-point shots put Notre Dame ahead 10-6 three and a half minutes into the game. The Irish would not trail the Golden Eagles again for the rest of the game. 
Freshman Skylar Diggins, play­ing off of the bench because of the senior starting lineup, entered the game 3 minutes in 
rebound of the “It was our class, the game and scored 
fve of us. We were just 
its last two 
trying to have a
points. 
While senior good time.” forward Erica Williamson did 
Melissa Lechlitner
not manage her 
Irish senior
Senior Night goal 
of shooting — or even attempting 
— a 3-pointer, she added two points, three rebounds, three assists and one steal to the Irish effort. 
“It was our class, the five of us,” Lechlitner said. “We were just trying to have a good time.” 
It was Notre Dame’s first win since the Feb. 14 game against DePaul. Without Schrader, the Irish (24-3, 11-3 Big East) fell to then-No. 22 St. John’s and then-No. 12 Georgetown on the road. 
“It was just great being able to throw it to Schrader when we needed a bucket,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. 
Notre Dame got off to a slow start against the Golden Eagles (14-13, 5-9), who went up 4-0 and had an immedi ate impact on the defensive effort. 
Diggins fin­ished the game with eight points, six rebounds and a career-high nine assists. 
“She is unbe­li evabl e,” Schrader said. 
Forward Jessica Pachko and guard Courtney Weibel each had 15 points to lead the Golden Eagles. Pachko also contributed eight rebounds as Marquette out-rebounded Notre Dame 40-37. 
The Irish will travel to South Orange, N.J., Saturday to take on Seton Hall before wrapping up their regular season at home Monday against No. 1 Connecticut. 
Monday’s game is expected to be Notre Dame’s sixth sellout of the 2009-10 campaign. Prior to this season, the Irish had six total sellouts. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
Panthers 
continued from page 20 
with time. 
“You just can’t put some­body in there on this kind of thing until it’s better,” he said. 
In Harangody’s absence, junior forward Carleton Scott will start. Scott made his first start against Louisville and had nine points, six rebounds and three blocks in 34 min­utes. 
“I thought Carleton Scott maybe took a step forward into some new territory that we’ve been kind of waiting on,” Brey said. 
The bench also saw more playing time: freshman Jack Cooley played 19 minutes and freshman Mike Broghammer played 10. 
“Our young big guys did a heck of a job,” Brey said. 
Buckeyes 
continued from page 20 
breaking loss that snapped a four-match win streak. The loss was to No. 10 Tennessee, 5-2. 
“It’s really important for us to stay focused, and the girls know that,” said Louderback. 
Crucial to the girls contin­ued success will be sopho­more Kristy Frilling. Frilling leads the Irish with perfect records in both singles and doubles in the spring season. She is 8-0 at both No. 1 sin-
Notre Dame had a bye week this week, a much-needed rest after losing to Louisville in double overtime on Feb.17. 
“It seems like we played a month ago after not playing this weekend,” Brey said. “I don’t know if I’ve been prouder of a team in 10 years after a loss.” 
Pittsburgh (21-6, 10-4) is third in the Big East and has won five straight conference games. The Panthers beat No. 7 Villanova Sunday and took down No. 8 West Virginia in overtime on Feb. 12. 
Guard Ashton Gibbs leads the Panthers in scoring with 
16.8 points per game and shoots 38 percent from 3­point range. 
Notre Dame got help in Harangody’s absence, help it will need again tonight. Junior forward Tim Abromaitis scored 29 points, senior guard Tory Jackson 
gles and doubles, chalking up some very impressive victo­ries over top-ranked players. This weekend alone, she defeated No. 85 Rachael White of Illinois and Northwestern’s No. 12 Maria Mosolova. 
Frilling has taken out five nationally -ranked singles opponents in all this year. On the doubles side she has been just as impressive. Frilling pairs up with team­mate senior Kali Krisik at No. 1 doubles for the Irish. In total, the pair has three wins over ranked teams, including the Wildcats No. 14 duo of added 19 and senior guard Ben Hansbrough scored 21, making 10-of-12 foul shots in the process. The bench didn’t add many points, but they allowed the starters to rest — except Jackson, who played all 50 minutes. 
The Cardinals made 3-of-5 3-pointers in the overtime periods, something Gibbs may attempt to exploit. The Irish made 13-of-14 free throws in extra time but it was not enough. 
Brey said Saturday’s game against No. 11 Georgetown was a possible time for Harangody to return but was not certain that he would be ready. 
“This group that has played 100 minutes without him will continue to play without him until it’s really ready,” Brey said. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Lauren Lui and Elena Chernyakova. 
“Frilling has been so impressive,” said Louderback. “Just a model of consistency.” 
Frilling will look to stay perfect against No. 67 Kristin Flower of the Buckeyes. Flower is 8-4 this season, and will be looking for her biggest personal victory of the season. The two teams are set to square off at 3:30 
p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact John Helms at jhelms2@nd.edu 

Wednesday, February 24, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports
Wednesday, February 24, 2010 page 20 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles edge Albion to advance to MIAA second round 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s triumphed over Albion 61-59 in a game that was not decided until the last two possessions were in the books and earned a first-round MIAA tournament win. 
The Britons jumped out to an early 10-6 lead from which the Belles quickly recovered and took a 16-12 lead. After a 13-0 Albion run the Belles fought back, but an Albion 3-pointer with 5 seconds left in the half extended the Briton advantage to 10 points. 
The second half opened with each defense prevailing until Albion took their largest lead of the game at 34-22 3 minutes into the half. Saint Mary’s responded with a 12-2 run of their own that was capped by a dagger 3-point­er from sophomore guard Katie Sullivan. 
Though Albion fought back to a 4-point advantage, the Belles were able to create another run, this time 14-2 to give Saint Mary’s a 48-40 lead with just under 10 minutes left in the game. Each team continued to reel off runs until the game was tied at 59 with about a minute left to go. 
The Belles missed an opportu­nity to take a lead, but Albion could not capitalize, missing a shot that was rebounded by sen­ior forward Anna Kammrath with 24 second left in the clash. Sophomore guard Patsy Mahoney took the ball on an end-to-end drive into the lane and banked the deciding layup in with 13 seconds left. 
The Britons had a final oppor­tunity to force overtime — or even win the game — but Saint Mary’s played solid defense, forc­ing the last Albion shot to clang harmlessly off the rim and seal­ing the Belles’ victory. 
Sophomore forward Kelley Murphy paced Saint Mary’s with a 16-point, nine-rebound effort, while sophomore guard Maggie Ronan added 11 points and five assists on five-of-six shooting. 
Kammrath’s biggest rebound was one of 10 on the night, all of which came in the pivotal second half. 
Belles coach Jennifer Henley also earned her 100th career win in the victory, which placed the Belles into a second-round tour­nament game at No. 2 seed Calvin at 7:30 p.m. on Thursday. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 

BENGAL BOUTS 
Showdowns set 
Cugliari beats Robillard 
by unanimous decision  
By CHRIS ALLEN, MEGAN  
FINNERAN, KAITLYN  
MURPHY, ALLAN JOSEPH  
and MATTHEW ROBISON  
Sports Writers  
133 pounds  
Chris ‘Cougar’ Cugliari def. Brian ‘Ghost Hands’ Robillard  
Senior captain Cugliari’s fast  
hands and quick feet overcame  
the sophomore Robillard in a  
unanimous decision. Cugliari  
opened the fight looking to set the  
tone and threw plenty of punches.  
He connected on a big punch  
early to Robillard’s face, knocking  
him down. After scoring the early  
knockdown, Cugliari played it  
safe, picking his spots and pounc­ 
ing whenever Robillard let his  
guard down.  
Robillard fought back in the sec­ 
ond round using his strong left jab  
to put Cugliari on the defensive.  
Cugliari seized any chance he got  
to put Robillard back on the see BOUTS/page 17  IAN GAVLICK/The Observer Senior Chris Cugliari, left, connects with a right hand against sophomore Brian Robillard Tuesdayduring a semifinal match in the 133 lb. weight division. Cugliari advanced to the finals.  

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Seniors honored, lead big win 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
It was a storybook night for Notre Dame’s senior class. 
In front of a sell-out Senior Night crowd, the No. 7 Irish defeated Marquette 82-67 in a performance buoyed by the team’s five seniors. 
Senior captain Melissa Lechlitner, who hails from Mishawaka and has spent her entire basketball career in the area, scored a career-high 23 points to lead the team. 
“It’s always nice when your shots are falling,” Lechlitner said. “Senior Night is always an emotional night. I wasn’t sure how I was going to come out.” 
Fifth-year senior and captain 
see SENIORS/page 18 

MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Harangody out for Pitt showdown 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will be short its star for the third straight game. 
Luke Harangody has been ruled out of tonight’s game against No. 12 Pittsburgh, Irish coach Mike Brey said. 
The senior forward bruised a bone in his right knee dur­ing Notre Dame’s 90-87 loss to Seton Hall on Feb. 11 and missed the next two games. The Irish (17-10, 6-8 Big East) have lost three straight. 
“He’s not ready to go, after watching him in practice,” Brey said on his radio show. “And I don’t know when he’s going to be back. That’s the reality of what we’re looking at now.” 
Brey said bone bruises can­not be healed with ice, only 
see PANTHERS/page 18 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Squad hopes to keep momentum vs. OSU 
By JOHN HELMS 
Sports Writer 
Sunday marked a first in Notre Dame women’s tennis history as they upset the top ranked team in the country, Northwestern. This after­noon marks their first match after the historic win, as the Irish will try to keep their momentum going and avoid a letdown after such a mon­umental victory. 
The win was huge for the Irish’s self-image. Two week­ends ago, the team failed to qualify for the National Indoor tournament, and were sentenced to a week­end by themselves in South Bend. Northwestern, mean­while, won the tournament. 
“The kids were upset with their ranking, not qualifying for the National Indoor Tournament and they felt like they needed to get some of their respect back,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. “It was one of the few times we’ve competed as an underdog.” 
Now they’re faced with an equally daunting task, back­ing up the impressive victory against the dangerous No. 17 Ohio State. 
The Buckeyes will be espe­cially hungry, considering they are coming off a heart-
see BUCKEYES/page 18 




