the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Obama’s first year in office examined 
By LIZ O’DONNELL 
News Writer 
The first year in the Oval Office has featured the best of times and the worst of times for President Barack Obama. 
On the one-year anniversary of his inauguration, Obama is faced with slipping approval ratings and the unforeseen bump in the legislative road after Republican Scott Brown won the vacant Massachusetts Senate seat. 
In order to appreciate what lies ahead for America’s first-ever black president, it is important to understand the accomplishments and shortfalls of his first year in office. 
Political science professor Peri Arnold said Obama’s first year in office should not be examined through a singular perspective. 

“You must assess it through two different lenses, the first being a policy or substance lens, and the second a political lens,” he said. I would give him a higher grade on the first dimension of the presidency than on the sec­ond.” 
Arnold said Obama has a “nat­ural talent for executive leader­ship and administration” that has helped him in his first year. 
“This is arguably one of the most fit people [for the presiden­cy] we’ve seen in the 20th centu­ry. He is a very talented, smart, well-educated person,” he said. 
Political science professor David Campbell said while many of Obama’s agenda items are still unfinished, he’s accomplished feats comparable to many of his predecessors. 
“It’s easy to get caught up in the moment and say he hasn’t gotten health care, hasn’t closed Guantanamo Bay, etc., but more importantly, he has done what all presidents need to do, which is assemble a political team,” he said. 
The president assembled a fair­ly moderate administration, which has received criticism from both sides of the aisle over issues such as the stimulus package and health care legislation. 
Arnold said part of this comes from his desire to make centralist decisions. 
“He has an administration that has made good, economic deci­sions that were very much mid­dle-of-the-road decisions. This lead to him being attacked by both sides for not doing enough,” he said. “Obama has a propensity to want to center himself in poli­
see OBAMA/page 6 

STUDENT SENATE 


Senate passes non-discrimination resolution 
Committees respond to offensive comic, examine student body donations to Haiti 


By SCOTT ENGLERT 
News Writer 
Senators examined two pressing campus issues in its Wednesday night meeting 
— first in a discussion of a new resolution that calls for an examination of Notre Dame’s policies toward the lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) commu­nity and second in examina­tion of how to provide relief to Haiti. 
Resolution SS0910 -09, titled “A Resolution Proposing the Review of Notre Dame’s Policies Regarding Homosexual Members of Our Community,” was proposed by Robyn Grant and Patrick Tighe, co-chairman of the Committee on Gender Issues. 

In addition to referencing the 96 Catholic universities that already have existing Gay -Straight Alliances, Grant encouraged all Notre Dame students to draw upon their faiths and moral val­ues to create a more wel­coming campus for the LGBT community. 
“As true Catholics, look beyond sexual orientation,” Grant said. “One should never attract discrimination, harassment or violence.” 
Breen -Philips senator Maria Lynch praised the resolution as needed step of action in response to the recent comic published in The Observer. 
“We have a tangible event that there’s a problem on our campus,” Lynch said. The “comic was a violent threat against these stu­dents.” 
The resolution also calls for the University to amend its non -discrimination clause to include sexual ori­entation. 
Student body vice presi­dent Cynthia Weber expressed the significance that the resolution will not stop at only examining legal issues. 
“It has the possibility of addressing cultural issues and other issues outside of legal issues,” Weber said. 
The Senate voted — with 
see SENATE/page 4 



ND cancels Innsbruck program 
Students disappointed as University announces end to long-standing abroad site 
tant part of its history. Notre Dame stresses the importance of tradition, but this decision is com­pletely contradictory to the University’s position.” 
Notre Dame will continue to provide a German study abroad opportunity at its site in Berlin, which was initiated in 2001, assistant director of OIS David Younger said. 
OIS decided to discontin­ue the Innsbruck program because its popularity decreased over the last decade, to the point where only two students applied for the full-year program, Younger said. 
see INNSBRUCK/page 4 



PLSgroup holdsarea seminars 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
As the new semester comes into full swing, a dedicated group of a dozen students in the Program of Liberal Studies (PLS) is preparing for the upcoming short story dis­cussion sessions they lead at local middle schools in South Bend. 
These student volunteers are juniors and seniors who have participated in Great Books semi­nars during their studies at Notre Dame, and they share and dis­cuss a wide selection of age-appropriate short stories by clas­sic authors with the young stu­dents they lead. 
The current seminar program, which involves students from Brown Intermediate Center, Holy Cross School and St. John the Baptist Middle School, is an extension of a successful Homeless Center Great Books program that has been run by PLS chair Stephen Fallon and PLS professor Clark Power since 1998, Fallon said. 
A primary goal of the program is to provide new and challenging discussion opportunities for chil­dren who may not receive such intellectual opportunities other­wise. This goal reflects PLS’s vision that if the ideas presented in literature are beneficial for everyone, they should be avail­able to absolutely everyone, including children, Jane Doering, a senior PLS volunteer, said. 
During the seminars, after 
see PLS/page 6 

By SARAH MERVOSH 
Assistant News Editor 
Even before women were allowed to attend Notre Dame, students were studying abroad in Innsbruck, Austria, the University’s first study abroad location. 
This spring, 46 years and nearly 1,300 students later, the Innsbruck program enrolled its final class. 
“I’m really disappointed in the Office of International Studies’ [OIS] decision,” senior Madelaine Ambrus, who spent a year abroad in Innsbruck, said. “I think Notre Dame is los­ing out in a really impor-

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC honors Fr. Moreau page 4  ND addresses smoking policy page 4  Meet the football assistants page 13  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Thursday, January 21, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
You can 


laugh ... now 
Despite the fact that he hails from the farthest reaches of North Dakota and resembles any number of different Muppets, Chuck Klosterman is my favorite popular author. 
Klosterman’s pop culture essays are often so abstract that they leave me puz­zled, confused, but ultimately unaffect­ed. However, in his latest book, “Eating the Dinosaur,” Klosterman’s essay railing against laugh Chris Allen tracks in sitcoms left me absolutely furi-

Sports 
ous. I imagine it is 

Wire Editor 
something like how turn-of-the-century carnivores must have felt after reading Upton Sinclair’s “The Jungle,” even if the subject is slight­ly less grisly and dangerous to my per­sonal health. 
Klosterman’s words were on my mind when I sat down to watch Monday’s episode of “The Big Bang Theory” (a sit­com with a laugh track) with my room­mates. Is there any convention of media that is as obnoxiously stupid as a sound recording that tells viewers when they should laugh? Halfway through the episode, I found myself uncontrollably laughing at a joke that left my roommates silent, which is not abnormal, as I am a bigger fan of the show than they. However, the joke also was not accompa­nied by canned laughter indicating that viewers were supposed to be laughing. For all intents and purposes, I could have been the only person in the world who was laughing at the joke. My laughter had alienated me not only from my room­mates but also from social convention. 
Why should I have felt this way? Amusement is — like sadness, anger, nervousness or jealousy — a very person­al matter, which different people will feel varying degrees of. It is that fact which makes a laugh track so inane. The laugh track supposes that we are too stupid to enjoy the product on our own, so it pro­vides an obnoxious cue to when the Hollywood honchos feel we should be laughing. Imagine this phenomenon in other facets of life. The sound of a sob­bing woman is piped into your dorm room whenever a beloved character dies on “Grey’s Anatomy” or during the climax of the latest showing of “The Notebook.” The artificial sound of chattering teeth in the latest “Friday the 13th” movie makes sure to let you know that the threat of mutilation by a deranged killer should in fact make you nervous. The loudspeakers at Notre Dame Stadium give us a cue to when we should boo (although the “1812 Overture” did in fact serve this very pur­pose towards the end of last season. Ignore the last example). These examples would be met with overwhelming ridicule. So why do we allow laugh tracks to continue to condescend to us? 
I say we put a stop to it immediately. Thankfully, the laugh track has begun a slow, gradual death. The best sitcoms on TV already have forsaken the laugh track (think “The Office,” “30 Rock,” “It’s Always Sunny in Philadelphia”) and more and more each year follow suit. It’s time to can canned laughter. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: CAN YOU FINISH THIS SONG LYRIC? ‘THIS IS THE STORY OF A GIRL WHO...’ 









Bianca Leonardo  Josh Zavilla  Kary Yergler  Elissa Gennicks  Mike Castillo  Scott Matthews  
sophomore  junior  junior  sophomore  junior  junior  
LeMans  Zahm  Zahm  Regina  off campus  Zahm  
“OMG, OMG,  “Was livin’ la  “Cried a river and  “Became sleep  “Heard Enrique  “Kicks them to  
rah I love that song! They are playing at Legends on Friday!”  vida loca.”  drowned the whole world and while she looked so sad in photographs I absolutely love her when she smiles.”  deprived when all she wanted was a nap.”  in Zahm.”  the curb unless they look like Mick Jagger.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

TOM LA/The Observer Students discuss ways they can give back to the community at the Social Concerns Fair held by the Center for Social Concerns on Wednesday evening. Over 50 local clubs and organizations attended, offering a students a broad range of initiatives to get involved and make an impact. 
OFFBEAT 

Man calls police after paying for sex without getting it 
MARLBOROUGH, N.H. — Police said a man and woman from New Hampshire are each facing prostitution charges after the man called police to say he’d paid for sex, but the woman then refused. WMUR-TV reported a 22­year-old woman and 32­year-old man were cited into court at a later date. 
Police said the man called Marlborough Police on Monday to say he’d paid the woman and a third party $150 to have sex with him on Sunday, but she wouldn’t follow through. 
Police said they’re still investigating the third party. 
Man kidnaps teen at knife point after snowball hit car 
ANSONIA, Conn. — Police said a prank turned poten­tially dangerous when a man angry about a snow­ball hitting his car allegedly pulled a knife on a group of youths and kidnapped one of them. No one was injured. Joshua Good, 25, was to be arraigned Monday in Superior Court on charges including first-degree kidnapping, threat­ening and reckless endan­germent. The kidnapping charge carries 10 to 25 years in prison. 
Police said a group of youths was throwing snow­balls near Colony Park Friday night when Good’s car was hit. Police say Good threatened the youths with a knife and forced a 13­year-old boy into his car. 
Authorities say Good drove the boy home and didn’t hurt him. 
Good posted $150,000 bail. He didn’t immediately return a phone message Wednesday. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Friday Saturday 

IN BRIEF 

“Expanding the Boundaries: Selected Drawings from the Yvonne and Gabriel P. Weisberg Collection” will open at 10 a.m. today. The exhibit will be displayed in the O’Shaugnessy Galleries West in the Snite Museum of Art. 
An exhibit titled “The World of Piranesi” will be held at 10 
a.m. today in the Scholz Family Works on Paper Gallery in the Snite Museum of Art. 
The Lucy Booth will be offered in the Student Center Atrium at Saint Mary’s College at 11 a.m. today. 
Daily Mass will be held in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 
11:30 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. today. 
A lecture titled “Islam and Economic Underdevelopment: Legal Roots of Organizational Stagnation in the Middle East” will be held at 4:15 p.m. The lecture will be held at C-103 in 
the  Hesburgh  Center  for  
International Studies.  
“Futurism  and  the  

Mathematical Marvelous” will be held at 5 p.m. today. The lecture will be held in 131 DeBartolo Hall. 
AcousticCafé will be held at 10 p.m. in the LaFortune Basement tonight. 
The Student Union Board will present the movie “Zombieland” at 10 p.m. tonight in 101 DeBartolo Hall. Admission is $3. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Sunday Monday 

Atlanta 62 / 53 Boston 39 / 27 Chicago 34 / 29 Denver 44 / 19 Houston 77 / 60 Los Angeles 54 / 52 Minneapolis 30 / 19 New York 39 / 28 Philadelphia 39 / 28 Phoenix 66 /50 Seattle 50 / 40 St. Louis 46 / 41 Tampa 77 / 60 Washington 37 / 31 
Thursday, January 21, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
Holy Cross gives hope 



to earthquake victims 


SGAdiscusses Haiti support 
Special to The Observer 

Board to take suggestions and plan ways to help nation after disaster 
By MEGHAN PRICE 
News Writer 
At last night’s meeting, the Saint Mary ’s Student Government Association (SGA) discussed possible ways in which the school could provide aid for the people of Haiti. 
There are currently “Help for Haiti” change jars around campus, including at the front desk of the student center. The money collected will be sent to assist various groups in need, Katrina Mesina, SGA chief of staff said. 
Carissa Salvador, president 
of 
the Student Diversity Board, informed other mem­bers of the Board of another 

ongoing 
relief project. Bettina Spencer, assistant professor of psychology at Saint Mary’s, is the faculty advisor for a program that is 




The nearly unimaginable catastrophe of Haiti confronts collecting extra T-shirts from dents. 
any person of faith with the past events at Saint Mary’s Griffin explained that the 
reality and paradox of the and sending them to victims program was very important 
Cross, but for the brothers, of last Tuesday’s earthquake. to Saint Mary’s because it 
sisters and priests of the 
“We would like all the clubs to donate what they can,” Salvador said, “Students can also donate their old T-shirts. Every one can help.” 
The Board also brain ­stormed other ideas like a Donate a Meal fundraiser, a canned food drive and a Hacienda or Chipotle Night 

“We would like all the clubs to donate what they can. Students can donate their old T-shirts. Everyone can help.” 
Carissa Salvador president Student Diversity Board 
lobbied the 

Congregation of Holy Cross, 
state Senate 

the confrontation has been 
and House for 

particularly intimate during 
more funding 
the last few days. 
for private 

Since 1944, when Holy Cross 
colleges and 

missionaries first came to Cap 
universities. 

Haitien, the congregation, the 
“This is our 

same religious order which 
chance to 

founded the University of 
show that 

Notre Dame a century earlier, 
funding is 

has established numerous 
really impor­

educational, social and 
tant for pri ­

parochial ministries through­
vate schools 

out Haiti. Holy Cross commu­
as well,” 

nity is now organized there as 
Griffin said, 

the Province of Notre-Dame du 
“a lot of grant 

Perpetual Secours with 49 
money is in 

professed members, including 
danger of 

two Holy Cross bishops, 25 
being cut, 

temporarily professed mem­
which would 

bers, five novices and six pos­
in which proceeds would go to relief in Haiti. 
The Board plans on accepting more suggestions and voting on the issue at their next meeting. 
In other SGA news: 
tMegan Griffin, SGA vice president, presented a peti­tion from the Political Science Club, asking for funding for a special funding program in Indianapolis in mid-February. The program, she said, is a selective learn­ing opportunity for 18 col­lege students, two of which will be Saint Mary’s stu ­Cross communities interna­tionally, all of them resonating with the reminder in their order’s constitutions that “there will be dying to do on our way to the Father.” 

Holy Cross religious are a vital presence in this already beleaguered nation, 80 per­cent of whose population are members of the Catholic Church. And neither the Church nor the Holy Cross order was spared when the earth began to shudder. Returning to Notre Dame after having miraculously survived the collapse of the Montana Hotel in Port-au-Prince, Fr. Thomas Streit, founder of Notre Dame’s Haiti Program, describing the apocalyptic hor­ror he had witnessed in the rubble of the city the fact that “the churches were all gone, all of them. Places that I had prayed in, places that mean so much to the nation’s people. That was their source of hope. And yet, people at night were praying and singing. They were holding hands as per­haps the only thing they could do without food or water. They turned to God.” 
affect all of us, especially students from Indiana.” 
The Board awarded the club the funds needed for two students’ hotel room and transportation throughout Indianapolis during the pro­tulants. 
Immediately after the earth­quake, and continuing in its aftermath, stories of pain, grief, resolve and faith have circulated among the Holy 
gram. 
Griffin said this was an issue that they would be 


Blair: bomber should 
involved in beyond the three-day program. She said this was an issue to which both the club and College 

havebeenterrordetainee 
president Carol Ann Mooney were dedicated. 
Contact Meghan Price at 
Associated Press 


mprice02@saintmarys.edu 
WASHINGTON — The nation’s intelligence chief said range of agencies, is still being assembled and has not been deployed yet. 
Blair said the decision to file criminal charges against the suspect in federal court was made “on the scene.” 
“Seemed logical to the people there, but it should have been taken using this HIG format at a higher level,” Blair said. 
Under questioning by Sen. Susan Collins, R-Maine, Blair and Secretary of Homeland Security Janet Napolitano said they were not consulted before the decision was made to not use the high-value detainee interrogation group. Also, Michael Leiter, chief of the National Counterterrorism Center, said he was not consult­ed. 
“That is very troubling,” Collins said. “It appears to me that we lost an opportunity to secure some valuable intelli­gence information, and that the process that Director Blair described should have been implemented in this case. And I think it’s very troubling that it was not, and that three key intelligence officials were not asked their opinion. 
Blair also said criteria for adding people to the govern­ment’s “no fly” list was too legalistic. And he said that in recent years there has been pressure to shrink rather than expand the list because of a cascade of complaints from people getting “hassled” by authorities. “Why are you searching grandmothers?” was a too-common refrain, he said. 
“Shame on us for giving in to that pressure,” Blair said. Since the Christmas episode, the list has been expanded, he said. 
In a separate hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee, FBI Director Robert Mueller said al-Qaida and its Wednesday that the Christmas Day airline bombing suspect should have been treated as a terrorism detainee when the plane landed. That would have meant having special interroga­tors question him before decid­ing whether to place him in the civilian court system. 

Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab was interviewed by FBI agents when Northwest Flight 253 landed in Detroit after he allegedly tried to detonate a homemade bomb sneaked through airport security in Nigeria and Amsterdam. Abdulmutallab is being held in a prison about 50 miles outside of Detroit. 
Critics assert that the govern­ment should have at least con­sidered whether to delay plac­ing him in the civilian court sys­tem in order to press him for any useful intelligence before he gained the legal protections of a lawyer. 
Director of National Intelligence Dennis Blair told the Senate Homeland Security Committee that he was not con­sulted on whether Abdulmutallab should be ques­tioned by the recently created High-Value Detainee Interrogation Group, or HIG, and charged in federal court. 
“That unit was created exact­ly for this purpose,” Blair said. “We did not invoke the HIG in this case. We should have.” 
The interrogation group cited by Blair was created by the Obama administration last year to handle high-value terror sus­pects, but it was envisioned for use with suspects caught over­seas, not in the U.S. The group, to be led by FBI interrogators and including experts from a 
page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 21, 2010 



ND emphasizes smoking policy 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Several complaints from stu­dents, faculty and staff alike recently have sparked e-mails about enforcing Notre Dame’s smoking policy, Mike McCauslin, the acting director of Risk Management and Safety, said. 
The e-mails, sent to the student body last Wednesday, remind stu­dents, staff and faculty that smoking is prohibited within 25 feet of a building. 
“The original focus of the e­mail was directed at faculty and staff,” McCauslin said. “Smoking complaints typically rise during the winter months and also dur­ing inclement weather. People tend to smoke closer to buildings or under protective overhangs.” 
McCauslin said this causes two problems: smoke entering build­ings through entrances, windows or ventilation systems, and peo­ple being forced to walk through smoke to enter a building. 
“We decided to take the oppor­tunity to remind University per­sonnel of the policy. After the e­mail had been sent to University faculty and staff, we were encouraged by several e-mails to remind students of the policy,” McCauslin said. 
According to the policy, smok­ing guidelines were revised on April 10, 2006 to reflect St. Joseph County’s smoking ordi­nance. 
“The most recent change to the policy was in August 2008, when the University incorporated the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) requirements establishing a mini­mum distance from a buildings perimeter of 25 feet,” McCauslin said. 

This distance from the perime­ter stops smoke from entering ventilation systems, according to the policy. 
McCauslin said Risk Management and Safety received few complaints about students smoking in violation of the policy, and the complaints involving staff and faculty came from those entering the buildings in which they work. 
According to the smoking poli­cy, the Office of Human Resources will provide smoking cessation courses for any faculty or staff member that wishes to quit smoking, and the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education (OADE) will provide similar class­es for any student wishing to quit. 
“An annual survey of college freshmen conducted by UCLA has routinely reported that about 2 percent of our freshmen smoke,” McCauslin said. 
According to its Web site, OADE has developed the Resolve Program to Quit Smoking for stu­dent smokers. 
Included in the program is a 20-day quitting guide, along with personal assessments and guides to help students quit successfully. 

Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 


SMC honors Fr. Moreau 
College holds series of events commemorating founder’s feast day 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 

In honor of the feast day of Blessed Fr. Basil Moreau yesterday, Saint Mary ’s College prepared a special meal that featured food typical of Moreau’s native country, France. 
Each year the College honors Moreau with two meals, one on the day of his beatification in September and one on his Feast Day. Along with the meal, Mass was held in Holy Spirit Chapel in LeMans Hall. A reception followed the Mass. 
Additionally, Sr. M. L. Gude, vice president of the College ’s Division for Mission, spoke about Moreau and the heritage of Saint Mary’s. 
“Blessed Basil Anthony Moreau is the founder of the religious family of Holy Cross, Sisters, Priests and Brothers. The Sister of the Holy Cross are the founders and sponsors of Saint Mary’s College,” Judy Fean, director of Campus Ministry said. “Moreau was beatified in Le Mans, France, Sept. 15, 2007 and his Feast Day was selected, Jan. 20, the anniversary of his death. Blessed Basil Anthony Moreau’s vision of educa­tion was to educate the mind and the heart.” 
The Feast Day of Moreau falls within the College’s Heritage Week, which is dedicated to commemora­tion of the College’s tradi­tions and roots. 
“I cannot think of a more appropriate time to cele­brate Moreau ’s life than during Heritage Week at 
She said Saint Mary ’s works to educate women not just in academics, but in social justice as well. Moreau, she said, acts as a reminder of this philosophy. 
“Blessed Basil Anthony Moreau was always reach-
Saint Ma ry ’s , ” Jenny Hoffman, student body president said. “The week’s events are designed to edu ­cate stu ­dents on the rich hi story and tradi­tion of 
our ing out to be in soli ­darity with the forgot ­ten or with 

“It is very important for us 
those who 
to keep Blessed Basil 
lived on the 
Anthony Moreau’s vision of fringes of society, ”
Christian education alive 
she said. 
as we learn more about the 
“Saint mission and vision of the Mary’s College
Sisters of the Holy Cross.” 
educates women to Judy Fean make a dif­director of Campus Ministry ference in 
College. It is only fitting that we learn more about our history in order to appreciate our school today.” 
The events were designed to commemorate as well as educate students about the founder of the order of the Holy Cross. 
“It is very important for us to keep Blessed Basil Anthony Moreau’s vision of Christian education alive as we learn more about the mission and vision of the Sisters of the Holy Cross,” Fean said. 
the world, 
to reach 
out to oth­
ers, and to work towards the common good of all people.” 
Hoffman agreed that it was important to remind students of the life of Moreau. 
“Since Moreau played such a key role in the founding of Saint Mary ’s College, we students cele­brate his feast day as a way to acknowledge and appre­ciate his vision, persist ­ence, and determination,” she said. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 



Innsbruck 
continued from page 1 
“Student interest is the key factor in our ability to create and sustain study abroad pro­grams,” Younger said. 
Younger said the decline of the Innsbruck program came at the same time as the addi­tion of other study abroad pro­grams. 
“We feel that a large part of the decline was the added variety of study abroad desti­nations,” he said. 
Younger said OIS tried to rebuild the program in Innsbruck by incorporating an option for business students and adding a semester option. 
Some students said these very actions, particularly the addition of the semester option, actually decreased Innsbruck’s popularity. 
“I think that OIS kind of shot themselves in the foot, so to speak,” Ambrus said. “It’s basically their own fault that there was a lack of demand, as they put it, because they cut down the year-long program into a semester-long program.” 
Senior Katy Smith, who also spent her sophomore year in Innsbruck, said the year-long program was an asset to the main German program at the Innsbruck program. time. And it was also the year­

“My year was the first year long one and it was a lot more that they did a semester pro-structured than the Berlin pro­gram and the semester pro-gram.” gram allowed students to take Another benefit of the classes in English for the first Innsbruck program was the time,” Smith said. housing option. Students lived 
“To be honest, I think that in dorms with European stu­was a big mistake,” she said. dents during the week, “I think kids stopped doing the Ambrus said, and with a guest year-long program because family on the weekends. they had the semester option “In the Innsbruck program, as well.” you are immersed within the 
Smith said her year abroad Austrian culture in the form of 
was  the  best  having  a  guest  
year of her col- family.  They  
lege career. “I only had  “We feel a large part  teach you so much about the  
the option of  a  of the decline was the  Austrian  cul- 
year to go over. It kind of forced  added variety of study  ture,” she said. In the Berlin  
me  to be like,  abroad destinations.”  program, stu- 
‘if you want to  dents  can  
go abroad, you are going to do a year,’” she  David Younger assistant director of OIS  choose where they will live, Younger said.  
said. “It  was  a  “During  the  
decision I never  pre-session, the  

would have chosen otherwise, students begin to search for but I’m so glad that Notre housing in the city for the Dame forced me to do it.” duration of the year or the 
Smith said the Berlin pro-semester,” he said. “Some stu­gram existed when she was dents may choose to stay in a choosing an abroad location, German dormitory, find room-but she did not consider it. mates or even stay with a host 
“I don’t know anyone who family.” went. It wasn’t at all popular,” Ambrus said the housing she said. “Innsbruck was the setup in Innsbruck contributed to her feeling of community more elite German language while abroad. program,” he said. “Students 
“Basically the sense of com-on this program enroll at an munity that was present in elite German institution, Freie Innsbruck is going to be com-Universität, and [it] requires pletely different higher level if they replace it German lan­with the Berlin “People are shocked guage profi­program,” she and upset and I think ciency than the said. “[The stu-Innsbruck pro-
students will miss out
dents] were gram does.” kind of like a lit-on a great opportunity Ambrus and 
tle family. And because of this.” Smith both said then we also they are upset had the exten-about OIS’ deci-
Katy Smith
sion of the guest sion. family.” senior “Everyone 
Smith also thinks it’s a said the size of huge mistake,” the cities would contribute to a Smith said. “People are difference in the feeling of shocked and upset and I think community. students will miss out on a 
“It’s a very different culture great opportunity because of [in Berlin.] I think Berlin is a this.” huge city, where within Ambrus lamented the loss Innsbruck you see a lot of the for future German language same faces,” Smith said. “You students. really do become part of the “I had an amazing year. It town. People begin to recog-was definitely the best year of nize you.” my life, no question,” Ambrus 
Younger said the Berlin site said. “So the fact that other is appealing because its lan-people aren’t going to be able guage program is, relative to to have an experience similar the Innsbruck program, more to mine ... I feel sorry for Notre demanding. Dame because they are losing 
“The Berlin Consortium for an extremely important asset.” German Studies program is different from the Innsbruck Contact Sarah Mervosh at program in that it is a much smervosh@nd.edu 
ernment had collected more Notre dame students are than $5,200 from the student making,” University Affairs 

Senate 

body. The money will be given chairman Jeff Lakusta said. continued from page 1 to organization such as the Texting funds to Haiti relief 
Red Cross, Catholic Relief, hotlines and participating in 25 in favor of, zero against Holy Cross Missions and the dorm Mass collections are and one abstaining — to pass Notre Dame Haiti Program, only two of the numerous the resolution. he said. ways that Notre Dame 
u In other Senate news: A formal decision of how Students are helping the vic-
Concerning the relief efforts the funds will be appropriated tims in Haiti, senators said. for Haiti, student body presi-is scheduled to be made dent Grant Schmidt Friday. Contact Scott Englert at announced that student gov-“This isn’t the only effort senglert@nd.edu 



World & Nation 
Thursday, January 21, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 


Afghans plan increase in security 
KABUL — The Afghan government and its international partners agreed Wednesday to significantly increase the country’s security forces and outlined plans to lure Taliban mil­itants from the fight in a bid to turn the tide of the war. 
A joint panel of officials from Afghanistan, the U.N. and troop-contributing nations approved plans to train more than 100,000 more security forces by the end of next year. 
The decision comes ahead of a Jan. 28 conference in London, which is aimed at boosting international support for Afghanistan in the face of a resurgent Taliban and complaints about runaway cor­ruption in President Hamid Karzai’s govern­ment. 

Vietnam convicts democracy activists 
HO CHI MINH CITY — Vietnam convicted four democracy activists of trying to overthrow the communist government on Wednesday and sen­tenced them to up to 16 years in prison for promot­ing multiparty democracy. 
The most well known of the four defendants, U.S.-trained human rights attorney Le Cong Dinh, received a relatively light five-year sentence after judges at the Ho Chi Minh City People’s Court delib­erated for just a half-hour. The court apparently showed leniency because Dinh acknowledged breaking the law during his testimony. 
“From the bottom of my heart, I myself and these three other defendants had no intention to overthrow the government,” Dinh told the court. 
NATIONAL NEWS 


Worker sues for same-sex benefits 
SAN FRANCISCO — A federal employee in California is suing the Obama administration to force it to provide health benefits to her same-sex spouse. 
The U.S. Office of Personnel Management told Karen Golinski that it was refusing to extend benefits to her wife because federal law prohibits the government from recogniz­ing gay marriage. 
The office made its decision over the objec­tions of 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals Chief Judge Alex Kozinski, who called the move illegal discrimination. 
Golinski is a lawyer for the 9th Circuit in San Francisco. 
The Office of Personnel Management says the Justice Department told it to ignore the judge’s ruling because it went against the 1996 Defense of Marriage Act. 

Texas man charged with murder 
BELLVILLE, Tex. — A 20-year-old Texas man has been charged with capital murder in the shooting deaths of five family mem­bers, including a 2-year-old niece who also was decapitated. 
Maron Thomas of Bellville is accused in the weekend deaths of his mother, stepfa­ther, sister, brother and niece. He’s jailed under a $1 million bond and it wasn’t imme­diately clear if he has an attorney. 
Investigators alleged Wednesday that an ongoing family dispute led to the shootings, but declined to give details. 
The bodies were discovered Sunday in their single-story home in Bellville, a town of about 4,000 people 55 miles northwest of Houston. 
LOCAL NEWS 


House panel passes gun bill 
INDIANAPOLIS — A bill that would prohib­it companies from banning guns in people's locked cars at work is on its way to the Indiana House floor. 
The House Natural Resources Committee voted 10-1 to pass the bill Wednesday. The panel approved amendments that would allow domestic violence shelters and home­owners to prohibit firearms on their proper­ty. 
The bill also would exempt refineries and certain facilities such as chemical plants that must register under anti-terrorism regula­tions. 


Crewsfindexplosivesingunman’shome 
Suspect, accused of shooting death of eight people, surrenders after manhunt 
Associated Press  
APPOMATTOX, Va. — A  
bomb squad discovered a  
multitude of explosives  
Wednesday at the home of a  
man accused of shooting to  
death eight people, and  
crews were detonating the  
devices as more details  
about the suspected gun­ 
man came to light.  
Christopher Bryan  
Speight, a 39-year-old secu­ 
rity guard, surrendered to  
police at daybreak  
Wednesday after leading  
authorities on an 18-hour  
manhunt following the slay­ 
ings at a house in rural cen­ 
tral Virginia where deputies  
found a mortally wounded  
man and seven bodies.  
As of Wednesday after­ 
noon, bomb squads had  
detonated seven explosives.  
The blasting was expected  
to continue into Thursday.  
Speight had no weapons  
when he surrendered. He  
was wearing a bulletproof  
vest over a black fleece  
jacket, camouflage pants  
and mud-caked boots.  
Neither the sheriff nor a  
state police spokeswoman  
would disclose what Speight  
said when he gave up.  
Authorities remained AP  
tightlipped on most details Murder suspect Christopher Speight, center, is led out of State Police headquarters in  
surrounding the slayings, Appomattox, Va. Wednesday. He surrendered after an 18-hour manhunt.  
including any possible  
motive. Nor did they imme- Mays, the county’s retired  Mays said the entire com- with Speight, and Speight  
diately identify any of the  commissioner of accounts,  munity is devastated and  told him “don’t let you emo- 
victims or their relationship  said Speight was a good  wondering what triggered  tions get the best of you.”  
to the suspect. Investigators  neighbor. They waved as  the slayings.  Reynolds said Speight was  
would say only that he  they passed each other on  “The only one who’s going  not married and had no  
knew his victims.  the road and sent their dogs  to know now is Chris,” he  children.  
Speight, who was jailed  out to play with one anoth­ said.  Police were alerted to the  
while awaiting charges, co- er.  David Anderson, co- bloodbath when they found  
owned and lived in the  “All the dealings I’ve ever  owner of the Sunshine  the wounded man on the  
home where some of the  had with him have been  Market grocery store in  side of a road. Then sher- 
bodies were found.  cordial and polite,” Mays  Lynchburg, where Speight  iff’s deputies discovered  
Reporters were allowed  said. “We got along fine.”  sometimes provided securi­ seven more bodies — three  
to see the home Wednesday.  Speight had long been a  ty, said Speight was worried  inside the house and four  
The two-story house had a  gun enthusiast and enjoyed  that his sister and brother- just outside.  
big patio, where there was  target shooting at a range  in-law wanted to kick him  When officers converged  
furniture, a children’s bicy­ on his property, Mays said.  out of the house.  on the area, the suspected  
cle and a plastic basketball  But the shooting recently  Speight never wanted to  shooter fired at a state  
hoop. The yard was land- became a daily occurrence,  talk about it, but he “con­ police helicopter, rupturing  
scaped and well-mani­ with Speight firing what  stantly paced the floor,”  its gas tank and forcing it to  
cured.  Mays said were high-pow- Anderson said. “I thought  land.  
Neighbor Monte W. Mays  ered rifles.  he was going to wear a  The shots revealed his  
said Speight’s mother deed­ “Then we noticed he was  trench in it.”  location, and more than  
ed the house to Speight and  doing it at nighttime,” and  Clarence Reynolds, who  100 police swarmed into  
his sister in 2006, shortly  the gunfire started going  also works at the market,  the woods until Speight  
before she died of brain  deeper into the woods,  said he recently discussed a  gave up the following morn- 
cancer.  Mays said.  personal family problem  ing.  

HAITI 


Aftershock terrifies desperate Haitians 
aclysmic Jan. 12 earthquake struck at “Nobody will go to their house now,” 
Associated Press 

6:03 a.m., just before sunrise while he said, as he sought a tent of his own. 
PORT-AU-PRINCE — A frightening many were still sleeping. From the “It is chaos, for real.” new aftershock Wednesday forced more teeming plaza near the collapsed presi-A slow vibration intensified into side-earthquake survivors to live on the cap-dential palace to a hillside tent city, the to-side shaking that lasted about eight ital’s streets or sent them fleeing to per-5.9-magnitude aftershock lasted only seconds — compared to last week’s far haps even worse conditions in the coun-seconds but panicked thousands of stronger initial quake that seemed to go tryside. Haitians. on for 30 seconds. 
A flotilla of rescue vessels, mean-“Jesus!” they cried as rubble tumbled Throngs again sought out small, ram-while, led by the U.S. hospital ship and dust rose anew from government shackle “tap-tap” buses to take them Comfort, converged on the capital. They buildings around the plaza. Parents away from the city. On Port-au-Prince’s are helping fill gaps in still lagging glob-gathered up children and ran. beaches, more than 20,000 people al efforts to bring water, food and med-Up in the hills, where U.S. troops looked for boats to carry them down the ical help to hundreds of thousands of were helping thousands of homeless, coast, the local Signal FM radio report-people who are surviving in makeshift people bolted screaming from their ed. tents or simply on blankets or plastic tents. Jajoute Ricardo, 24, came run-But the desperation may actually be sheets under the tropical sun. ning from his house, fearing its col-deeper outside the capital, closer to last 
The strongest tremor since Haiti’s cat-lapse. week’s quake epicenter. 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, January 21, 2010 
desire to reach out and give America a better image to the 
Obama 

rest of the world was something 
the administration prioritized. 
continued from page 1 

Obama’s successes in his first tics; for what he does is prudent year in office enabled the presi­and careful, maybe even too cau-dent to become the first current tious sometimes.” U.S. president to win the Nobel 
Late last month, Obama’s Peace Prize since Woodrow administration issued a self-Wilson in 1919. report card, where they awarded With Tuesday’s turnover of Ted themselves a “B+” for his first Kennedy’s Senate seat, however, year in office. Obama will have greater difficul-
Campbell said this was an ty completing health care reform, 
appropri- an  item  
ate grade given his  “Health care hasn’t gone  that has g a r n e r e d  
a c c o m -plishments. “From a p o l i t i c a l  the way President Obama was hoping, but I would be willing to bet at the  a r g u a b l y the most a t t e n t i o n out of any  
p e r s p e c ­tive, that was the r i g h t  beginning of the administration this was one of the scenarios they planned for.”  issue on his agenda. “On one hand, the  
a n s w e r, ”  enormous  
he said. “You don’t want to  David Campbell political science professor  amount of p r o g r e s s made was  
give your- extremely  

self an ‘F,’ especially because he impressive, the item has been on has accomplished a decent the agenda since Truman’s amount. You also don’t want to administration,” Arnold said. come off arrogant by giving your-“Now, I don’t know where we are self an ‘A.’” today because of the 
Despite the comments of his Massachusetts election.” critics, however, both Arnold and Campbell agreed with Arnold, Campbell said they thought but also said he believes the pres­Obama’s expedient passage of the ident has had a plan in case the economic stimulus bill was one of initial reform fell through. his greatest achievements this “Health care hasn’t gone the year. way President Obama was hop­
“By and large people genuinely ing, but I would be willing to bet agreed that we were on the brink at the beginning of the adminis­of disaster and the stimulus bill tration this was one of the sce­pulled us back from it,” Arnold narios they planned for,” he said. said. “We avoided the cataclysm While the passage of the health economically.” care reform bill has become 
Campbell also said Obama’s more difficult, it appears there 
D’Ambrose said. “The kids can get pretty deep with the 
PLS 

metaphors in the stories.” D’Ambrose said discussing 
continued from page 1 

the stories in an environment reading the short stories, mid-that fosters respect for the dle-school students engage in young students and their abili­dialogue with Notre Dame PLS ties allows for a great deal of students about themes, learning by both the middle-metaphors and ideas they have school students and the PLS 
about what they  v o l u n t e e r s  
read.  Doering  alike.  
said. PLS works in  “The kids can get  “It’s a very different situa­ 
full coordination with the middle-school curricu­lum coordina- pretty deep with the metaphors in the stories.”  tion for the kids, but it chal­lenges them and gives them  
tors  in  each  room  to  grow  
school to incor- Kate D’Ambrose  instead  of  
porate the short story seminars  PLS senior  learning in the structured envi­ 
into  the  chil- ronment they’re  
dren’s  school  used  to,”  

day, Jane Doering, executive D’Ambrose said. “It also helps coordinator of the discussion me become a better learner program, said. because you have to be cre­
“We could accommodate ative and express yourself in more than the 12 student vol-different ways if the students unteers we have, but we have don’t understand something.” to coordinate when the volun-In addition to the educational teers are free and when the benefits of the seminars, teachers can fit the seminars D’Ambrose said the children into their schedules because of also benefit from having role the tight middle-school cur-models with whom they can riculum,” Doering said. converse on a more equal 
Doering also said middle-level. school teachers are enthusias-Many of the students, she tic about the seminar program said, don’t consider college as because short stories are not an option for the future. usually incorporated into their Doering agrees that exposing curriculums. Because the sto-children to fine literature ries can be read in a short enriches their lives as well as period of time, she said, stu-their intellect because litera­dents have more opportunities ture, she said, speaks to the to discuss what they have read human condition. with their college counterparts. “Fine stories are enduring 
Senior Kate D’Ambrose said works dealing with fundamen­she is often pleasantly sur-tal questions of human exis­prised by the level of under-tence that have the capacity to standing of the middle-school engage the whole person in students despite the high level terms of the imagination as of literature presented by writ-well as the intellect,” Doering ers like Oscar Wilde, John said. “It is important that these Updike and Langston Hughes, ideas are accessible to every-among others. one.” 
“It’s really interesting to see what the students get out of Contact Kristen Durbin at stories and what they think,” kdurbin@nd.edu 
are still a number of ways for Obama to pull up his waning pop­ularity in the polls. 
“With approval ratings below 50 percent, which is not different from Ronald Reagan’s first year in office, some of it is recession-related,” Arnold said. “That said, Obama could have done a better job shifting the blame of the recent economic status. His mod­eration and coolness have led him to be less powerfully aggres­sive and is making him sell him­self less than he could have.” 
Campbell said critics of Obama who have said he’s “washed up” already are wrong in their 
assessment. 

“People are wrong who say he’s washed up already,” he said. “It doesn’t mean he’ll recover, but it also doesn’t mean he won’t recover.” 
Contact Liz O’Donnell at eodonne1@nd.edu 


The Observer 




Business
Thursday, January 21, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Starbucks 1Q profits beat forecasts 
CHICAGO — Caffeine lovers visited Starbucks Corp. more often — and spent more money when they did — during its fis­cal first quarter, the world’s largest coffee chain said Wednesday, more than tripling its profit. 
The Seattle company that made grande and venti household words earned $241.5 million, or 32 cents per share, for the three months that ended in late December. During the same period last year, when the reces­sion was in full force and Starbucks was closing stores and laying off workers to cut its costs, its profit was $64.3 million, or 9 cents per share. 
Starbucks’ revenue rose 4 percent to $2.72 billion, up from $2.62 billion. 
“Despite our strong showing, we have much more work to do,” CEO and Chairman Howard Schultz said on a conference call with investors. 
Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters expected Starbucks to earn 28 cents per share on revenue of $2.65 billion. 

JetBlue may move headquarters 
NEW YORK — JetBlue said Wednesday it will decide within three months if its head­quarters will stay in New York or land in a new city. 
The airline says it may move its corpo­rate headquarters to Orlando, Fla., the site of its training facility. JetBlue has been considering that move for more than a year. 
The carrier has said going to Orlando would likely mean consolidating its New York home office with its smaller finance department in Darien, Conn., at the new location. JetBlue has about 800 employees at those two offices. 
Moving to Orlando would also mean a brand adjustment for the carrier, which calls itself “New York’s hometown airline.” 
The lease on JetBlue’s New York head­quarters expires in 2012. The Connecticut office’s lease expires next year. 
Spokeswoman Alison Croyle said that no matter what it decides, New York will remain the company’s operational home with its Terminal 5 at JFK Airport. 


Times to charge online readers 
Paper to institute fees for full Web site access beginning next year 
Associated Press  
NEW YORK — The New  
Yor k Ti mes p l a ns t o  
charge readers for full  
access to its Web site next  
y ear, re v i vin g an id e a  
that fizzled twice for the  
newspaper. This time it’s  
betting that it will be able  
to wring more revenue  
f r om r e a d e r s w i t ho ut  
crimping its Internet ad  
sales.  
Under the plan outlined  
We d n e s da y, t he Ti m e s  
will adopt a “metered”  
sy stem t h at w i l l al l ow  
readers to click on a cer­ 
tain number of stories for  
free each month before  
fees kick in. A metered  
sy stem i s d e si g n e d t o  
draw casual readers with  
free articles while getting  
f e e s f ro m p e ople wh o  
want to dig deeper on the  
site.  
Th e f e e s w on ’t be  
imposed until next year,  
giving Times executives  
more time to build the  
system and figure out the  
details that are likely to  
dictate whether the gam­ 
ble pays off. The pivotal  
issues include determin­ 
ing how much to charge  
a n d h o w man y s to r i e s AP  
will be free each month. The New York Times plans to charge readers for full Web site access in 2011. The paper’s  
The only certainty for headquarters in New York City are shown in this July 2008 file photo.  
now is that subscribers to  
the printed version of the  Financial Times, a more  interested in reaching the  parison, The Washington  
Times will still get unlim­ s p e c i al i z e d new s p a p er  biggest possible audience.  Post’s Web site attracted  
i ted f re e access t o the  that caters to an upscale  Any downturn in Internet  9 . 2 m i l lio n a nd US A  
Web site. That could help  audience interested pri­ a dv e rtis i n g — o ne o f  Today drew 8.6 million.  
the Times sell more sub­ marily in news about the  newspapers’ few areas of  R ef le c t ing t h e st ak es  
scriptions to the printed  stock market, the econo­ growth in recent years —  riding on its decision, the  
newspaper among a por­ my and businesses.  could more than offset  Times spent more than  
tion of Internet readers  Some newspaper ana­ any benefit from reader  six months assessing the  
who figure they may as  lysts and executives have  fees.  logic of charging for its  
well get the newspaper  q ues t i o n e d w h e t h e r  The Internet currently  Web site.  
delivered to their home  I nter net f e e s ma k e a s  g e ner ates b e t w e en 1 0  More newspaper pub- 
or office, too, as long as  mu c h sen se fo r m o r e  percent and 15 percent of  lishers are likely to take  
they have to pay to read  mainstream newspapers  newspaper ad sales now,  the leap too, now that one  
everything online.  such as the Times, whose  and the figure is expected  of the world’s best known  
Th e new sp ap e r a l s o  stories span many of the  to rise as more marketing  newspapers has taken the  
indicated it will meter the  political, business, sports  budgets shift from print  pl u n g e , s aid G r e g  
material it makes avail- and cultural topics that  to the Web.  Harmon, chief executive  
a b l e o n o t h e r on l i ne  ar e c ov e red b y o t h e r  The Times could face an  of B e l d e n I n t e r a c t i v e ,  
c h an nels , su c h a s  news outlets that don’t  especially painful back- which consults with pub- 
through mobile phones,  charge for Web access.  lash because it has one of  l i sh e rs ab o u t I nt er net  
electronic readers and  That raises the chances  th e l a rg e s t n e w spa per  fees.  
tablet computers. No fur- that hordes of fee-averse  followings on the Web,  “This is like the indus­ 
ther details were provid­ readers will flock to free  with 12.4 million visitors  try is being given the per- 
ed.  n e w s s i t e s , a s c e n ar i o  last month, according to  mission to charge, almost  
The metered approach  t ha t c o u ld a l s o d riv e  th e r e s e a r ch f i r m  li ke in a p apal sense,”  
has worked well for The  away Internet advertisers  comScore Inc. By com- Harmon said.  


Democrats propose debt limit increase 
Associated Press 

WAS HINGT ON —Senate Democrats on Wednesday proposed allowing the federal government to borrow an additional $1.9 trillion to pay its bills, a record increase that would permit the national debt to reach $14.3 trillion. 
The unpopular legislation is needed to allow the federal govern­ment to issue bonds to fund pro­grams and prevent a first-time default on obligations. It promises to be a challenging debate for Democrats, who, as the party in power, hold the responsibility for passing the legislation. 
It’s hardly the debate Democrats want or need in the wake of Sen.­elect Scott Brown’s victory in Massachusetts. Arguing over the debt limit provides a forum for Republicans to blame Democrats for rising deficits and spiraling debt, even though responsibility for the government’s financial straits can be shared by both political par­ties. 
The measure came to the floor under rules requiring 60 votes to pass. That’s an unprecedented step that could mean that every Democrat, no matter how political­ly endangered, may have to vote for it next week before Brown takes office and Democrats lose their 60-vote majority. 
Democratic leaders are also wor­ried that Sen. Evan Bayh, D-Ind., who opposed the debt limit increase approved last month, will vote against the measure. 
The record increase in the so-called debt limit is required because the budget deficit has spi­raled out of control in the wake of a recession that cut tax revenues, the Wall Street bailout, and increased spending by the Democratic-controlled Congress. Last year’s deficit hit a phenomenal $1.4 trillion, and the current year’s deficit promises to be as high or higher. 
Congress has never failed to increase the borrowing limit. 
“We have gone to the restaurant. We have eaten the meal. Now the only question is whether we will pay the check,” said Finance Committee Chairman Max Baucus, D-Mont. “We simply must do so.” 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 8 Thursday, January 21, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 


ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Katie Peralta Meaghan Veselik Alicia Smith Jared Jedick Sam Stryker Megan Finneran 
Graphics Scene 
Andrea Archer Alex Kilpatrick 
Viewpoint 
Lauren Brauweiler 

The perfect 80s song would just be God. 
Wait. Let me start over. 
I am, technically, a child of the 1980s, born alongside Music Television and the Macintosh. I Dan Sportiello took my place within a society Bound of high tops, leg-
Variables 

gings and mul­lets, of hair bands, synthesizers and cellular phones, of Rocky, Rambo and Indiana Jones, of Reagan, Thatcher and Magnum P.I. It was Morning in America, and it seemed for a while as if that morning might very well last forever. 
Yet the champions of freedom were, it seems, a bit too zealous in fighting their Cold War, for the 1980s ended prematurely in those final days of 1991 with the dissolution of the Soviet Union. Francis Fukuyama sug­gested that 1991 marked not just the end of the 1980s but also the end of history, with democratic capitalism standing victorious atop the ash heap of 500 years of ideological struggle. In a certain sense, I suppose, he was right — it was the end of history, at least according to his impoverished conception of it — so it is ironic that the event marks my first historical memory: even now, I can see the stat­ue of Lenin — cold, hard, and colos­sal — toppled by an angry mob of thousands. I was 6: I did not know what it meant, but I knew that it meant something. 
I mention this in order to make a confession: I have no memory of the 1980s. While the story of the statue is true, I just looked up the rest on Wikipedia. I am, technically, a child of the 1980s, but I did not realize it 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The easiest thing in the world to beis you. The most difficult thing to beis what other people want you to be.Don’t let them put you inthat position.” 
Leo Buscaglia
U.S. author & lecturer 



Form 
until it was too late. I remember only the event that marked the end of that decade — and, subsequently, the derision of the 1980s as ten solid years of cultural farce. 
And here I make another confes­sion, one far more personal: I miss the 1980s, miss it as an orphan miss­es the parents he never knew. Few know of this: when my generation has laughed at its origins, I have laughed with them as best I can, hiding my longing for what I missed: Music Television! The Macintosh! High tops, leggings and mullets! Hair bands, synthesizers and cellular phones! Rocky! Rambo! Indiana Jones! Reagan! Thatcher! Magnum P.I.! Anyone who hears of these things and feels nothing, I contend, is beyond recovery. To me, one who came of age during Evening in America, they sig­nify the adventure of a time when to be young was very heaven. 
We’re getting to God. Don’t worry. 
There is, of course, an element of irony to all of this — as there must be, given that we are talking about the 1980s. I know, deep down, that I didn’t really miss much. I know, deep down, that the object of my longing is something of a falsification, a form empty of real content. And yet even this seems appropriate — indeed, this seems to be the defining trait of the culture of that decade. The 1980s were a time when, after exhausting itself in 20 years of struggle over political and economic matters, America sought to lose itself in pure form. 
Consider for a moment the music of the 1980s: all that anyone remembers from Duran Duran’s “Hungry Like the Wolf” is the immortal line “do do do do do do do do do do do do do do do” 
— which, incidentally, led to the most embarrassing Rock Band vocal per­formance of my entire career. What everyone does remember is the melody — not the vehicle for that melody, which is irrelevant. This is even more obvious in Roxette’s “The Look,” the most poetic verse of which says nothing at all: 

“Na na na na na: na na na na na na na na. 
Na na na na na — na na na na na na na na. 
Na na na na na na, na: she’s got the look!” 
When Per Gessle wrote “The Look,” he scribbled guide lyrics — gibberish, essentially — to stand in for the two other verses; though he originally intended to write meaningful lyrics, he quickly realized that gibberish was actually better and changed nothing, giving us the song we have today. I take this argument to be decisive. 
The generation that came of age during the 1980s is infamous for its superficiality, for its commitment to form over content. I want to suggest that there may be as much nobility as vapidity in this. Aquinas taught that God is pure form; while I doubt that the men and women of the 1980s had this in mind, there is nonetheless an echo of his doctrine in their attempt to jettison content from their culture. Every decade tries to transcend itself, but to do so through superficiality is novel indeed. It is, perhaps, a form of life worth recovery. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his second year of the Ph.D. program in philosophy. Listen to his radio show on WVFI every Sunday at 4 p.m. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Fall seven times, stand up eight.” 
Japanese proverb 


The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Thursday, January 21, 2010 page 9 
What we can do together 
The old saying goes that there are no athe­ists in foxholes. Even the most ardent non­believer, in this line of thinking, would desire to pray to a higher power in the face of great fear or impending death. Even though athe­ists themselves resent this implication, call-
Fr. Lou DelFra 
ing it an aphorism rather than a statisti­cal claim, we can per-Faith Point haps agree and hope that the worst of situ­ations often brings out the best in each of us. So during this 100th anniversary Week of Prayer for Christian Unity, as I find myself praying for the many victims and heroes down in Haiti after the devastating earthquake and after­shocks, I believe and hope that there are no Catholics, Methodists, Presbyterians, Baptists, Evangelicals, Anglicans or Lutherans in Port­au-Prince right now, but simply followers of Christ, offering food to the hungry, drink to the thirsty and shelter to the homeless, bind­ing up wounds and consoling the many who mourn. 
The ecumenical movement, or the process by which separated Christian churches seek cooperation and unity with one another in areas such as doctrine, structure, tradition, authority and Scripture, has been gathering steam among Protestant denominations since 1910. The Roman Catholic Church officially jumped into the mix with the publication of the “Decree on Ecumenism” at the Second Vatican Council in 1964. 
Each of us who calls ourselves a Christian must believe from the very start that we can­not be fully Christian outside a Christian com­munity. The very nature of God points to this: our God is perfectly one, and at the same time three persons perfectly united as Father, Son and Holy Spirit. We too are one when we are united in community through baptism and through the saving power of Christ. With spot-on perfect timing the second reading on Sunday will address this very issue, as St. Paul reminds the Corinthians, “all the parts of the body, though many, are one body, so also Christ.” Furthermore, St. Paul continues, “The eye cannot say to the hand, ‘I do not need you,’ nor again the head to the feet, ‘I do not need you.’” By the very diversity of the many parts of the body, the body becomes whole and complete. Can any of us, whether Catholics, Protestants or Orthodox, say to another Christian, “I do not need you … unless, of course, you’d like to become just like me?” St. Paul has thought of that, too. “If the whole body were an eye, where would the hearing be?” he asks. “If the whole body were hearing, where would the sense of smell be?” 
And so in our prayers for ecumenism, we do not simply ask that we would all become just like one another. The Holy Spirit has given to each of us, brothers and sisters in one baptism, a diversity of gifts. Prayer together and for each other strengthens us in the face of unbelievable suffering, just as it has surely enabled the many doctors, pilots, counselors, nurses, troops and aid workers in Haiti to offer their diverse skills to bring some measure of hope to a situation filled with despair. 
In Lund, Sweden, the World Council of Churches in 1952 first stated what is now known as the Lund Principle: “Let us not do separately what we can do together.” All of us can already work together to comfort, to rebuild, and to heal following an earthquake, a hurricane, a war or a tsunami. In these extreme situations we become a bit more like the one Body of Christ. In a great variety of Christian denominations, believers have long felt the discomfort and the inconsistency of separation from each other, and since Vatican II, the Catholic Church too has actively sought constructive conversation with fellow Christians. Some issues have seen much progress towards shared understanding and common ground; others still provoke a “dig­ging-in-our-heels” response that remains a great challenge to overcome. 
We continue to see and hear heart-wrench­ing reports from Haiti. We know that quiet suffering persists in other parts of the world, here in the United States and right here in South Bend. Let us manifest the unity of all Christians as much as possible, through prayer, through bearing witness to the Gospel, through our willingness to become servants to the neediest among us. And let us not do so separately, for we can do it together. 
This week’s Faith Point was written by Fr. Lou DelFra, Director of Bible Studies and ACE chaplain. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
More needed 
Haiti, the poorest country in the western hemisphere, has been hit by a massive earthquake, affecting millions of people. Americans have already generously donated millions of dollars to help, but more help is still greatly needed. At this point, it is important to remember to give money to trusted organizations with a history of trans­parency, low overhead costs and efficiency to truly aid Haitians who need help the most. 
Oxfam America was rated a top charity by the American Institute of Philanthropy and focuses currently on giving clean water to those affected. The American Red Cross is another top-rated charity. Besides donating money to cover immediate needs, we must also think of the future. It is crucially important for Americans to get behind the effort to cancel Haiti’s debt. Corrupt and unde­mocratic leaders have amassed $891 million in debt. Ordinary Haitians did not choose to build such debt, yet they see little if any of the benefits of the loans and are affected most by the burden of debt. The International Monetary Fund (IMF)’s response to the earthquake was to offer a $100 million loan to this economically devastated country that has little chance of repaying the loan. Aid for development should come in the form of grants, not loans. 
The Catholic Church spearheaded the Jubilee Year Debt Forgiveness effort that helped developing countries crip­pled by debt start anew and should take the lead again in helping Haiti recover. Additionally, the government of Haiti needs reform to stop widespread corruption and to end the cycle of poverty (Haiti was recently ranked as one of the most corrupt countries by Transparency International). I encourage my fellow Domers to keep donating money for relief efforts and to cancel Haiti’s debt. 
Claire Brosnihan 
junior 
abroad 
Jan. 20 


Spirit still missing 
We commend the Editorial Staff’s intention to apologize for including “The Mobile Party” in your Jan. 13 edition. As you note, the publication of the cartoon was, indeed, an “egre­gious error in judgment.” However, the content of your apol­ogy continues to create concern. Referencing what you claim to be the regrettable acts of others (Sen. Reid) as you apolo­gize for your own regrettable actions is an attempt to justify your actions, to make them seem more common, and there­fore, less objectionable. As children sometimes say, “Yes, it’s wrong, but everyone does it! Why should I be the only one that gets in trouble?” 
Your apology also fails to fully name the act for which you seek apology, and to show an understanding of the historical context here at Notre Dame. The problem with the cartoons is not just hate; the problem is hate against sexual minorities that we as a University community and as a Church walk a very, very fine line in addressing. That line is often writ so fine as to be lost or willfully ignored by too many of us. Too often, it is we Catholics and Notre Dame — and not the secu­lar world that we are so quick to condemn — who give wit­ness to our own fears and prejudices, rather than witnessing for the world the New Commandment: love one another as God has loved us. 
The Observer seeks to move forward. Dropping “The Mobile Party” and accepting the resignation of one of your staff members are first steps. Your problematic apology and failure to appreciate the historically unwelcoming atmos­phere for sexual minorities here at Notre Dame continue to cause concern. And attempting to move forward without University officials taking the opportunity to state boldly and publicly that hate and discrimination against sexual minori­ties are an affront to justice, let alone to the “Spirit of Inclusion,” would be an opportunity wasted. Rather than censor or impose stricter editorial supervision on The Observer, the University has wisely allowed those who creat­ed and those who allowed the cartoon to be published the opportunity to take full responsibility for their actions. But what is now lacking is the University’s pro-active leadership 
GLAAD on ‘Party’ 
to ensure that Notre Dame is no longer topping lists for intol­erance of sexual minorities. 
Martin Luther King, a man who knew great hate and dis­crimination, explained “Discrimination is a hellhound that gnaws at Negroes in every waking moment of their lives to remind them that the lie of their inferiority is accepted as truth in the society dominating them.” In honor of his wit­ness, we take this opportunity to speak truth to the lie that sexual minorities are unequal members of our community. We ask the Editorial Staff and the University to do the same. 
Sean B. O’Brien Felicia O’Brien Jill Godmilow Susan StVille Catherine Perry Stephen Fredman Jim Sterba Steve Tomasula Maria Tomasula Clark Power Ann Power Francisco Aragon Lionel Jensen Fred Dallmayr Margaret Doody Robin R. Rhodes Kristin Shrader-Frechette Peter Walshe Sean T. O’Brien Judy Fox Brian S. Collier Mary Beckman Carolina Arroyo Jay Brandenberger 
Members of the Notre Dame Progressive Faculty and Staff Alliance Jan. 20 
As a Catholic, a father, and a gay man, I was deeply troubled to see “The Mobile Party” cartoon printed in The Observer on Jan. 13. 
My faith is an important part of my life. As a Catholic, I’ve always cherished our tra­ditions of promoting peace and kindness to all people. Jesus taught us that, “Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me.” We are called to abhor violence, and to treat our fellows with respect. Sadly, this cartoon did not live up to this teaching. 
In America today there are still far too many cases of anti-gay violence; violence that is often the consequence of slurs that demonize people by demeaning who they are. This imagery is real for many Americans, because we’ve seen the stories of Matthew Shepard, Gwen Araujo, Angie Zapata, Simmie Williams, Steven Lopez Mercado and far too many others. These young people were targeted for violence by people who hated them because they were gay or transgender. 
Let there be no mistake, images in the media make an incredible impact, and this cartoon diminished the sense of safety and respect among many people — gay and straight alike — in the Notre Dame commu­nity. 
As the father of two teenage boys, I worry about sending my sons out into a world where this type of violence is promoted for a cheap laugh. GLAAD’s conversations with students and alumni over the past week affirm an important truth: there are gay, lesbian, bi and transgender (LGBT) stu­dents currently attending the University of Notre Dame. GLAAD knows, from conver­sations with students and community mem­bers, that Notre Dame feels less safe for LGBT people today than it did before this cartoon was printed. The school adminis­tration was right to publicly and forcefully condemn this cartoon and the violence it promotes. 
It is admirable that Jenn Metz, the Editor­in-Chief of The Observer acted quickly to issue an apology on these editorial pages. It’s worth noting that those responsible for creating the cartoon issued an apology through the Letters to the Editor section of this paper, and that the editor who made the decision to publish the cartoon has apologized and resigned from The Observer. These important initial steps must be followed by concrete actions that ensure anti-gay and anti-transgender material is not published again. As an organization dedicated to fighting anti-LGBT defamation and proactively sharing stories of LGBT people, GLAAD stands ready to be a partner in these conversa­tions. Together we must work to undo the harm created by this divisive and danger­ous cartoon. 
Jarrett T. Barrios 
president Gay & Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation (GLAAD) Jan. 20 
The Observer 






Scene
page 10 Thursday, January 21, 2010 
By SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Writer 
With 2009’s Palm d’Or winner, “White Ribbon,” author Michael Haneke has further cemented him­self as not only one of the world’s premiere directors but as perhaps the most uncomplicated social critic in the industry while wrought with complexity at the same time. His deliberately paced tour de force of a film is unnerving at the least, and at the most, downright horrifying in its illumination of what we as humans are not only capable of but what is a part of our very nature. With the lights casting deep shadows on the cast, Haneke’s pre-WWI period piece manages to delve deep into the con­fines of both sides of our black and white world — more specifically, into 
the death of innocence and the luscious black and white, is a har­rowing look into a culture veiled in a blanket of lies that only make the mysterious atrocities witnessed in the seemingly unsuspecting German town all the more revealing as a pre­cursor to the atrocities perpetrated by Germany in the years to come. 


The unnamed North German town is governed by an unques­tioned moral code that is nothing more than a mistaken façade defied by all levels of the hierarchy in ever more serious ways. The children, seemingly the only innocent charac­ters in the film, suffer the most from this code, while the adults, mainly the religious heads and powerful men, the keepers of the code, carry on as if they haven’t raped, cheated, stolen and murdered. The children however are the true evil in this film. True to the word of Thomas Hobbes, they internalize the wickedness of screen distract from the monstrosi­ties, or humans, depending on how you judge them, looming in the fore­front. When all else fades to black though, the shot sits still to reveal the 
Germany for the manifested mon­strosity that it was — but at our­selves for the monstrosity that deep down inside, we know we can be and in many ways 

pivotal questions looming over the town throughout the film, but just as elusive as they seem, the answers are staring at us the entire time, making no attempt to hide themselves from our glare. And therein lies the beauty of the mystery — that there may be no mystery at all, and maybe, even, that while the characters are speaking German, and while we know before­hand what Germany did in the decades to come, “White Ribbon,” as dated and national as it is, may not be about Germany. Not really, any­way. Maybe the film’s setting and seeming criticism of Germany is just as much a façade as is the religious­ness and morality of the town we slowly but surely begin to shake our heads in dismay towards. We’re frowning at ourselves really — at “What makes us capable of such atrociousness?” 
Maybe the question isn’t meant to be answered. Maybe it’s not even important, just like the questions of who, what, and why. 
Or perhaps … Perhaps it is meant to be 
answered. 
Maybe the answer is staring us in the face all along, just like the guilty children are. Maybe — or come to think of it — almost assuredly, the answer is that the heinousness perpetrated in this film runs through our veins just the same as blood does, and that no dose of religion or moral code can deny nature its just desserts. 

And there lies the secret to the only film this year truly deserving of being called a masterpiece: a sim­plistic complexity, or sweeping nar­rowness. Here, Haneke creates no eluding tale wrought with perplexi­ties. Confused, and in denial per­haps, we search for something greater than is actually there, some­thing as complex as we foolishly per­ceive the film to be. But our search is all for naught. Haneke has crafted no elusive puzzle. Instead, he shows naked humanity, after all of the facades we cloak ourselves in, after all the lies we tell ourselves. He delves into the soul and peers direct­ly at the head of the heart, and with­out color, without hesitation and without apology, reveals the sewage that is man. Nothing more. Nothing less. 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 




By SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Writer 
20. The Return (2004) 
A deliberately paced masterful allegory that defines simplicity, and for that reason alone it works. The pacing of this Russian language film, the best from that nation this decade, is eerie in a way rarely seen in the medium, and the acting, of those meant to be scared, coupled with those doing the scaring, is enough to send cool shivers down the spine throughout the film’s run­time. 
19. Once (2007) 
Folk singers/songwriters and first time actors Glen Hansard and Marketa Irglova share the same screen in the most touching love story to grace the silver screen in quite some time. The music will grab you and never let you go, for Hansard sings as though he’s exposing his bare soul to the world in the form of words wrought with the kind of emotional power that can only be evoked by someone truly, and I stress the word “truly,” in love. His music, so naked and bare, are love songs in the truest sense. And that is the overriding triumph here—the connection between these two and the rawness that Hansard brings to the role as a man, we assume, who has felt the real thing, that rare thing, the one dreams are made of and the one that in the end may only happen “Once,” if ever. 
18. Waltz With Bashir (2008) 
A paradox of a film, this animated documentary about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict in the 1980’s is a marvel in every sense of the word. It will at once tug and tear at your insides forcing you to want to look away in anguish, only to fail because the animation draws you in and doesn’t let you escape its other­worldly allure. 


17. Antichrist (2009) 

Costars Charlotte Gainsbourg and Willem Dafoe give their entire selves and then some unto director Lars von Trier’s bare-as-bones, uncompromis­ingly bleak view of human nature. The self-pro­claimed “best director in the world” admitted to having suffered from chronic depression during the film­ing of the movie, and the film undoubtedly benefits from it, as it crosses into rare ter­
rito­ry of being truly affecting art. Art that at once will terrify his audience, abandon it, but ultimate­ly, attest to the true visceral power of film, and its ability to not only unnerve but to leave permanent scars. 
16. Werckmeister Harmonies (2000) 
Touching on everything from Thomas Hobbes to the relationship between music and nature, Bela Tarr’s unapproachable but unfor­gettable philosophical drama is one of the greatest hidden gems of the decade. It feels like a classic even as you watch it for the first time, and despite the difficulty in discerning the film’s meaning, or even its plot really, it’s a few heart -stopping moments, shots suspended in time and washed in nearly unequaled grace that make this 
film truly worth the trip. 
15. Borat (2006) 

Call it what you will — crude, distasteful, offensive, downright disgusting — but for all of the naked wrestling and drunken Pamela Anderson-ogling, Sacha Baron Cohen’s exercise in social criticism veiled as a comedy is pure brilliance. Whether that bril­liance was intentional or just stum­bled upon is the big question, but to paint a picture of what Cohen has managed to do here, the Soviet Union exhausted billions of dollars and countless resources in an effort to paint America as a stupid, racist, 
hypocritical farce of a country, but failed. In two hours of relentless stu­
pidity that’ll have you literally crying from laughter, Sacha Baron Cohen has succeeded at what a once superpower could not. 
14. The Lives of Others (2006) 

Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck not only impresses, but amazes with his first feature length film. It stole the Best Foreign Language Film Oscar from right under “Pan’s Labyrinth’s” nose and rightfully so, as this story of a couple under the surveillance of the Stasi during the final hours of East Germany’s existence is a pitch-per­fect thriller that at once will bring you aback and hate its main char­acter, the Stasi man tasked with the surveillance (Ulrich Muhe in a per­fect, and I mean perfect, perform­ance), and then feel for him, and instead hate the system as he begins to turn against it. 
13. The Diving Bell and the Butterfly (2007) 
The lavish and oftentimes unruly Jean-Dominique Bauby, former edi­tor-in-chief of French “Elle,” is the subject of Julian Schnabel’s aesthet­ically wonderful, masterfully shot film about the late editor’s life after being diagnosed with “locked-in” syndrome. Paralyzed from head-to­toe by a stroke and able only to use one eye, Bauby underwent a tremendous journey of self-discov­
ery and overcame his condition to the point that he dictated an entire book that shares the title of this film. He was a truly inspiring person and through his one eye, we see the world from his perspective, unable to go our own way or do anything 
but blink and stare, but through that one eye, we see a world filled with breathtaking beauty. 
12. The Wrestler (2008) 

An awe-inspiring tour de force of a film, Darren Aronofsky’s master­piece is so deeply penetrating, that it becomes a sort of beautiful requiem. Mickey Rourke’s perform­ance as an over-the-hill wrestler trying to hold onto the false hope that he can mount a comeback is iconic at the least and deserves placement alongside the great screen performances of all time. 
11. Memento (2000) 

A supremely crafted get-in-your­head-and-stay-there psychological thriller with a killer twist to boot, Christopher Nolan’s most critically celebrated film is audacious in everything from its structure to its gritty pacing. This is edge-of-your­seat stuff that ranks up there with the most meticulous films of our time, or any time for that matter. Really, it’s nothing short of a truly captivating and mentally stimulat­ing experience, and a rare one at that, because unlike most films of its ilk, it manages to completely tie together every loose end with painstaking precision. 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 

ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 



Scene
Thursday, January 21, 2010 page 11 
DPAC, 6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. Student Film Festival The 21st Annual Student Film Festival will premiere tonight at the Browning Cinema in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. It comprises films produced by Notre Dame stu­dents, many made for a variety of film classes offered on campus. The Student Film Festival is always a very popular event, highlighting the extraordinary talent of the Notre Dame student body. Each film lasts between three and 15 minutes and promises to exhibit the acting skills of students and faculty alike. The festival will continue on Friday and Saturday evenings at the same time, so there are plenty of opportunities to attend. This event always sells out quickly, so be sure to get tickets ahead of time.  Legends, 10 p.m. Nine Days Concert S o m e o f y o u m a y r e m e m b e r t h e r o c k / p o p b a n d N i n e D a y s f r o m t h e e a r l y 2 0 0 0 ’s j u s t b y their name alone. Others of you would certainly recognize their s o n g “ A b s o l u t e l y ( S t o r y o f G i r l ) . ” O r y o u m a y h a v e n e v e r h e a r d o f t h e m a t a l l . R e g a r d l e s s , t h e b a n d i s s e t t o perform at Legends this Friday n i g h t a n d i t p r o m i s e s t o b e a g rea t s ho w. Wi t h t he c o m b i n a -tion of a catchy turn-of-the-cen-tu ry ( t h e 21s t c e ntu ry, t h at is ) s o u n d a n d l o t s o f e n e r g y, N i ne D a y s i s s u r e t o b e a c r o w d pleaser. After Nine Days has put you in a nostalgic state of mind, hang around for the 90s night-club at midnight.  Legends, 10 p.m. Joze Valdez and the Mambo Allstars Joze Valdez and the Mambo Allstars will be performing at Legends Saturday night. The band is known for their combination of classical and modern Latin beats, encompassing many popular forms of Latin dance including salsa, meringue and cha-cha among others. They have performed at many well-known venues including the Taste of Chicago, Summerdance at Grant Park and the Adler Planetarium. This energetic dance music is sure to get your blood pump­ing and your toes tapping. Even better, it will put you in the mood for Salsa night, which starts at midnight. Be sure to bring your friends and embrace your inner, or outer, Latin dancer.  Free Day Sunday is the perfect day to relax and prepare for the week ahead. Take this time to catch u p on h o mew ork , enjoy a cu p of coffee and a movie or watch t h e l a t e s t e p i s o d e o f y o u r favorite TV show. If staying in i s o u t o f t h e q u e s t i o n , t h i s c o u l d b e a g o o d d a y t o g r a b lunch with friends off campus o r g o t o t h e w o m e n ’s b a s k e t -b a l l g a m e a t 1 p . m . a t t h e Purcell Pavilion. Above all, this is the perfect day to get reju-venated and ready to do it all again next week. As students, we all need to be sure to slow d o wn f rom o ur l iv es and ta ke c a r e o f o u r s e l v e s . A n d i t i s never too early to start.  
Contact Genna McCabe at gmmccabe@nd.edu  
ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic  


By PATRICK GRIFFIN 
Scene Writer 
For a band whose American debut album was slated as one of the top-10 releases in 2009 by Rolling Stone magazine (in the Dec. 17 editi on), British hip­sters The xx surprisingly are not megastars in the states … yet. Consider yourself Currently, the band is touring internationally, and is already billed to play at this spring’s Coachella Music and Arts Festival. 

The band’s sound is simplistic, yet unique. Featuring his and hers vocalists, a reverb-laden, and Chris Isaac’s “Wicked Games,” and you may loosely recreate The xx’s spacey style. 
Interestingly, despite The xx’s creativity and uniqueness, the minimalism in their work is just as critical to their success as the stylistic techniques they employ. Their music sounds as if it was recorded in a great open hall. Each song sounds as if it cannot fill the virtual space of the track, yet this characteristic dramatically empha­sizes the individual portions of the band’s 
tionships and 
coming clean 
to significant 
others. In 
“Crystallized,” 
Sim groans 
“Things have 
gotten closer 
to the sun/and 
I’ve done 
things in small 
doses/so don’t 
think that I’m 
pushing you 
away/when 
you’re the one 
that I’ve kept 

closest.” Comparatively, in 
“Shelter,” Croft confesses, “I still 
want to drown whenever you 
leave/please teach me gently how 
to breathe.” The interaction between Sim’s staccatoed guitar, profound syn­thesizers and mod beats, “xx” creates a smoky room aura of musical coolness. Think equal 

Named one of deep drone and Croft’s Spin Magazine’s breathy utterances is, top-10 bands to at times, like witness-watch in 2010, The ing an exchange xx arrived on U.S. between embattled shores in late 2009 loved ones. Thus even to great fanfare in in the simplicity of the underground “xx,” each song can music scene. With be interpreted as dra­the dawning of a matic, realistic and new year and personally telling. decade, the band For all of the musi­continued their sys-cal effort put into tematic infiltration “xx,” what stands out of the American about the Brits’ debut music scene, while being praised parts Explosions in and mumble lyrics about roman-is its simplicity. The xx avidly on National Public Radio. the Sky, Peter, Bjorn and John, tic uncertainty, tumultuous rela-do not overwhelm listeners with showy instrumentation or addict­ing vocals. Rather, The xx set a mood — one that is open to audi­ence interpretation. Perhaps it is the band’s tendency to err on the side of minimalism that allows for spooky and mystifying atmos­pheres to be created in the music. 

As an album, “xx” flows bril­liantly from the introductory track to its 11th and final song. The band maintains its spacey identity while producing a new character­istic in each track. For a fresh and difficult-to-characterize sound from an emerging band, give “xx” a listen before it becomes England’s next big export. 
Contact Patrick Griffin at pgriffi3@nd.edu 

ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, January 21, 2010 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Georgetown upsets Pittsburgh in Big East battle 
Wake Forest hands Tar Heels their first three-game losing streak under Williams; Temple holds off Xavier 
dunked on successive possessions in averaging 17.5 points, while 
Associated Press 

to finish a decisive run that began Robinson scored a career-high 26 
PITTSBURGH — Chris Wright with Monroe’s two free throws. points against Louisville and scored 27 points and No. 12 Pitt hadn’t lost at home since a Wanamaker scored 20. Georgetown held No. 9 Pittsburgh 75-73 loss to Louisville on Feb. Gibbs and Wanamaker (4 of 12) scoreless for four minutes while 23, 2008. The Cardinals led Pitt were a combined 7 of 28 as Pitt taking control with a late 9-0 run by five points in the final minute shot 45.6 percent. and the Hoyas ended the Saturday, but the Panthers came Panthers’ eight-game winning back to win 82-77 in overtime. Wake Forest 82, UNC 69 streak with a 74-66 victory Georgetown shut down Pitt’s Freshman C.J. Harris scored a Wednesday night. leading scorer, Ashton Gibbs, by career-high 20 points and Wake 
Austin Freeman and Greg limiting him to eight points — 9.5 Forest beat No. 24 North Carolina Monroe added 13 points each, below his average — on 3 of 16 on Wednesday night to send the and Monroe fed Julius Vaughn shooting, including 2 of 8 from 3-Tar Heels to their first three-game inside for a key basket that made point range. Gibbs also was the losing streak under coach Roy it 66-58 with 3:50 remaining after primary defender on Wright, who Williams. Vaughn put in a free throw to repeatedly hurt the Panthers Ishmael Smith had 20 points, complete the three-point play. inside and out by scoring from the and Al-Farouq Aminu added 13 Vaughn scored 11 points. perimeter or driving the lane. points and 11 rebounds for the 
Gilbert Brown scored a career-Wright scored 12 points in the Demon Deacons (13-4, 3-2 high 20 points for Pitt, but the first half as Georgetown, coming Atlantic Coast Conference). They Hoyas (14-3, 5-2 in Big East) off an 82-77 loss to No. 4 hit 56 percent of their 3-pointers ended Pitt’s 31-game home win-Villanova, made its first five 3-and were 7 of 8 from long range ning streak a season after the point attempts while taking leads in the second half of their first vic-Panthers stopped Georgetown’s of 19-11 and 25-17. The Hoyas tory in Chapel Hill since 2003. 29-game run at home by winning finished 7 of 10 from beyond the Will Graves scored 16 points to 70-54. arc. But Gibbs hit a pair of 3s dur-lead the Tar Heels (12-7, 1-3). 
Pitt (15-3, 5-1) missed a chance ing a 10-2 Pitt run that tied it at The defending national champi­to go 6-0 in the Big East for the 27 — Gibbs’ one brief burst of the ons, who have dropped four of first time and lost for only the game — and it was 31-all at the five, were playing their first game third time in 13 home games half. since falling to No. 24 — their against ranked opponents since Wright’s early scoring was a lowest ranking in The Associated the Petersen Events Center good omen for the Hoyas, who Press Top 25 since 2006. where Wake Forest had its way Jordan Crawford scored 18 opened in 2002. dropped their previous three to The losing streak is their with the Tar Heels. points and Jason Love had 16 for 
Pittsburgh led 56-54 on Pitt. Georgetown is 13-0 when longest since they dropped five in North Carolina’s guards have Xavier (12-6, 4-1). Jermaine Dixon’s 3-pointer with Wright scores in double figures a row under Matt Doherty in struggled since Ty Lawson and Brooks, Fernandez and Allen 
7:48 remaining, but the Panthers but has lost all three games — to 2002-03. Wayne Ellington left early for the have all helped the Owls climb the didn’t score again until Brown Villanova, Marquette and Old Harris had 13 points in the sec-NBA — and Smith and the Demon national rankings and enjoy their made two free throws with 3:48 Dominion — in which he didn’t. ond half and fellow freshman Ari Deacons exploited that weakness best season in 16 years. But it’s remaining that cut the Hoyas’ Dixon added 14 points for Pitt, Stewart added 11 points for Wake repeatedly at both ends of the defense where Temple has carved lead to 63-58. but Gibbs, Brad Wanamaker and Forest, which was coming off a court. an identity. The Owls ranked third Wright hit a 3-pointer that put Nasir Robinson weren’t much of a 20-point loss three nights earlier Smith simply beat the Tar Heels nationally in defense (55.5 points the Hoyas ahead for good at 59-factor offensively against the at Duke but salvaged a split downcourt three times for early per game) entering the game and 56 before Wright and Freeman Hoyas’ zone defense. Gibbs came against its top instate rivals by layups before Harris and Stewart held a Musketeers offense that winning its second straight took over from long range after scored in the 50s only once this against North Carolina. the break. Meanwhile, North season below that number until 
The Tar Heels made it a one-Carolina finished 6 for 26 from late. point game shortly after halftime beyond the arc against the ACC’s The Musketeers got hot late in before Wake Forest’s first-year best defense against the 3. the final two minutes and made guards fueled the 18-6 run that Smith had 10 points in the first the Owls sweat out this victory. put the Demon Deacons in com-half for the Demon Deacons, who Brad Redford hit two clutch 3­plete control. went ahead to stay during a run pointers — he was left open in the 
Stewart closed the run with of 10 straight points. Gary Clark corner on the second one — that three straight 3s in a 90-second put them up for good with — sliced the deficit to 71-68 with span, capping it with a 25-footer what else? — a 3-pointer about 23.4 seconds left. that stretched it to 58-45 with nine minutes in that made it 19-Brooks, Temple’s newly minted 
10:45 to play. Even after the spurt 18. 1,000-point scorer, calmly made was over, the 3s kept falling: two free throws for a 73-70 lead. Harris swished a pair 30 seconds Temple 77, Xavier 72 Brooks, who nearly fumbled away apart from the same spot on the Ryan Brooks scored 22 points, the ball before he was fouled on a left wing, stretching the lead to Lavoy Allen had 16 and No. 16 press, hit two more and the Owls 68-53 with 7:26 left. Temple beat Xavier in a matchup could finally relax in a game 
Travis Wear and Deon of Atlantic 10 unbeatens, on between the league’s top-two Thompson had 13 points apiece, Wednesday night. teams. and Graves pulled North Carolina The Owls (16-3, 4-0 Atlantic 10) Each time Temple seemed on to 40-39 with a 3 with 17 minutes won their fifth straight game and the brink of building a comfy lead, remaining before the Tar Heels are off to their best start since Xavier inched its way closer faded to the fourth 1-3 start in they also opened the 1993-94 sea-toward a comeback. Crawford ACC play in program history. son 16-3. Juan Fernandez scored finally put the Musketeers ahead 
Two key members of North 15 points for the Owls, who for the first time since early in the Carolina’s front line were on the knocked off the three-time first half on a 3-pointer that made bench in sport coats and ties. No. defending league champions. it 48-47. 2 scorer Ed Davis sat out with a Temple won the past two A-10 With Dante Jackson yelling left ankle injury and 7-footer tournaments to earn automatic “Movement! Movement” before Tyler Zeller missed his third NCAA bids. At this rate, the Owls an inbounds pass, the Muskeeters straight game with a stress frac-won’t need to win that champi-listened, working the ball around ture in his right foot. onship game to secure a spot in and inside to Love — who was 
But it was in the backcourt the field of 65. whistled for an offensive foul. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
If you or someone you care about Off-Campus housing 2010-2011, Any woman who understands the People think that at the top there has been sexually assaulted, we Irish Crossings, Dublin Village 2,3,4 problems of running a home will be isn't much room. They tend to think WANTED PERSONAL can help. For more information, visit bedrooms still available. Furnished nearer to understanding the prob-of it as an Everest. My message is 
Notre Dame's website: and UnFurnished. Hurry only a few lems of running a country. that there is tons of room at the top. Business Major wanted for Campus UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? http.csap.nd.edu left. Best living, safety, Value. CES ——————————————— ——————————————— Manager ar ND. Property Management, 574-968-I always cheer up immensely if an To me, consensus seems to be the 
Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has 0112 attack is particularly wounding process of abandoning all beliefs, You will design a marketing plan, many resources in place to assist ——————————————— because I think, well, if they attack principles, values and policies. So it hire workers, and implement the you. If you or someone you love gradrentals.viewwork.com one personally, it means they have is something in which no one plan. needs confidential support or assis-HOUSE FOR RENT ——————————————— not a single political argument left. believes and to which no one Great resume builder opportunity. tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at $500/PERSON “Julio, you’re out!, Doni, you’re in!” ——————————————— objects. Salary +commission. 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. 2 FULL BATHS 4 BDRM ——————————————— I'm extraordinarily patient ——————————————— Contact: For more information, Being prime minister is a lonely provided I get You may have to fight a battle more Bettyjo@BoxMyDorm.com visit ND's web site: http://pregnan-**WALK TO ND** 54650 WILLIS job... you cannot lead from the my own way 317-679-6082 cysupport.nd.edu CALL 574-277-8471 crowd. in the end. than once to win it. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
FOR RENT 

Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Thursday, January 21, 2010 

page 13 
USTFCCCA Divion I Men’s Indoor Track and Field 
team previous 
1 Florida State 3 2 Florida 2 3 Oregon 1 4 Nebraska 5 5 Arkansas 8 6 Oklahoma 16 7 Arizona State 5 8 Texan A&M 9 9 LSU 4 10 Minnesota 14 11 Baylor 5 12 South Carolina 20 13 Virginia Tech 22 14 Texas Tech 13 15 Auburn NR 16 Stanford 11 17 Kentucky 19 18 Washington State NR 19 Georgia NR 20 California 12 21 Oklahoma State NR 22 Kansas State 16 23 New Mexico 16 24 Wisconsin NR 25 Kansas NR 
NCAA Women’s Basketball 
RPI  
team  previous  
1  Connecticut  2  
2  Stanford  1  
3  Tennessee  3  
4  Nebraska  4  
5  Ohio State  6  
6  Oklahoma  5  
7  Texas A&M  9  
8  Duke  10  
9  NOTRE DAME  9  
10  West Virginia  14  
11  Georgia  7  
12  Oklahoma State  15  
13  Georgetown  17  
14  Xavier  12  
15  Michigan State  11  
16  North Carolina  19  
17  Wisconsin  16  
18  Texas  22  
19  Virginia  13  
20  Southern California  35  
21  Baylor  46  
22  Rutgers  18  
23  South Carolina  43  
24  Vanderbilt  47  
25  Florida State  24  



around the dial 
NBA 

Lakers at Cavaliers 8 p.m., TNT 
NHL 

Blackhawks at Flames 
9:30 p.m., TSN 
NFL 


Manning and Colts hope for revenge 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS — Peyton Manning is on a simple mis­sion this week: Strike fast, stay on the field and take the Colts back to Miami. 
The four-time MVP and his Colts teammates can’t 
wait  for  the  journey  to  
begin.  
Nearly  a  month  after  

then-undefeated Indianapolis set off a nation­al firestorm by yanking its starters early against the New York Jets, Manning & Co. will get another at them in this weekend’s AFC championship game — even if nobody lets them forget what happened the first time. 
“Do you expect to play all four quarters this week?” Manning was asked jokingly before he could even settle in at the podium Wednesday. 
“I do, yeah,” Manning deadpanned, drawing laughter. 
But in Indianapolis, this is no laughing matter. 
Furious fans deluged local radio talk shows following Indy’s 29-15 loss in Week 16, and fans weren’t the only ones upset. 
After the game, four-time Pro Bowl center Jeff Saturday said he under­stood why Indy’s home fans booed, other players seemed surprised by coach Jim Caldwell’s decision to pull players early and Manning insisted nothing should be read into his body language even though he uncharacteristically kept his helmet on for most of the final 20 minutes that day. 
Since then, players and coaches have reached a consensus that they may not be playing in their third AFC title game since 2003 had they not done it this way. 
“Really, we’ve tried to focus in on the things that we thought were in the best interest of our team to get us into the position we are right now,” Caldwell said. “That was the ultimate goal.” 
It’s taken the Colts (15-2) a little longer to convince the fans. 
Three weeks ago, Manning jump-started the reconciliation process after another loss at Buffalo by explaining nothing could be changed. He said it was time to move forward and that he hoped fans would forgive the Colts and provide a united front in the play­offs. 
The message resonated. 

While other players and team president Bill Polian continued making their pitches, fans responded Saturday night by hitting the highest decibel-level in the two years Lucas Oil Stadium has been the Colts' home. The result: Indy 20, Baltimore 3 — the Colts’ first postseason victory since Manning was named Super Bowl MVP in February 2007. 
IN BRIEF 

Steve Smith to replace Fitzgerald in Pro Bowl 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — New York Giants receiver Steve Smith will replace Arizona’s Larry Fitzgerald on the NFC Pro Bowl team. 
The Giants announced the change Wednesday, making Smith the team’s first wideout to be selected for the Pro Bowl since Homer Jones in 1968. 
Fitzgerald pulled out of the Jan. 31 game in Miami because of a knee injury. 
Giants receiver David Tyree played in the 2006 Pro Bowl as a special teams player. 
Smith, who entered last season with 65 career catches, led the NFC and shattered the Giants’ single-sea­son record with 107 — 25 more than Amani Toomer’s previous team record in 2002. 
Smith’s 1,220 receiving yards were the second-highest total in franchise history. Toomer had 1,343 in 2002. 
Bills coach Chan Gailey searching for quarterback 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. — In becoming the Buffalo Bills new head coach, Chan Gailey’s first challenge is addressing a familiar problem: Coming up with a start­ing quarterback. 
Gailey vows to do a thorough evaluation, while cautioning he isn’t even sure if the Bills cur­rently have one on their roster. That’s not exactly a vote of confi­dence for Trent Edwards or Ryan Fitzpatrick, who split the starting duties in leading Buffalo to a 6­10 finish last season. 
Gailey’s quarterback quandary is a reflection of the state of the Bills. The team’s inability to land a franchise quarterback since hall of famer Jim Kelly retired after the 1996 season is a major reason Buffalo has gone 10 straight years without a playoff appearance. 
Jets defensive end Shaun Ellis ready to face Colts 
FLORHAM PARK, N.J. — New York Jets defensive end Shaun Ellis sat out practice because of a bro­ken left hand, but he is expected to play in the AFC championship game against the Indianapolis Colts. 
Ellis broke the hand on the Jets’ first defensive play in their 17-14 victory at San Diego on Sunday but later returned with a cast wrapped up like a club. He said he’ll have surgery to have screws inserted after the game against the Colts. 
Linebackers Bart Scott (left ankle) and David Harris (right ankle) were limited at practice Wednesday, but coach Rex Ryan said they’ll be fine to play. 
Running back Thomas Jones and fullback Tony Richardson were held out of the first practice of the week to give them some rest, as has been the case for the last month. 
page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, January 21, 2010 
NFL 

Vikings mum on status of defensive end’s knee 
Associated Press 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. — Ray Edwards walked into the locker room, listening to music with oversized head­phones covering his ears. 
Once he took them off, a pack of reporters and cam­eramen quickly surrounded Edwards at his cubicle. This is how far his career with the Minnesota Vikings has pro­gressed: His knee is injured, and it’s become big news. 
“Just trying to stay on top of it and keep the swelling down,” Edwards said, in his typical nonchalant tone. 
It ’s NFC championship week, so secrets are guarded even more closely than dur­ing the regular season in this already tight-lipped league. Edwards hurt his right knee in the third quarter of last Sunday’s divisional playoff victory over Dallas, and he was held out of Wednesday’s practice. 
The signs point to Edwards playing this weekend in New Orleans, but he wouldn ’t 
offer many clues himself. 
“Just taking it day by day,” Williams are much bigger names with a longer list of accomplishments than Edwards, who the Vikings drafted in the fourth round out of Purdue in 2006. 

He became a full -time starter in his second year, before a four-game suspen­sion for violating the NFL’s policy on performance enhancing substances. He claimed a mistake in not checking the list of the league ’s banned workout supplements. 
Edwards came back in 2008 and, buoyed by the offseason acquisition of Allen, boldly professed a goal of breaking the all -time single -season record for sacks. It was tough talk for a guy who had a total of just eight in his first two years. 
“I looked at him and I was like, ‘What?’” his agent, Doug Hendrickson, said this week. “But I think Ray believes he can be one of the best defen­sive ends in the league, and I don’t see why not.” 
Edwards is one of the 212 
NFL players 
who would lose 
unrestricted 
free agency sta­
he said, smil-tus, and instead 
“Just trying to stay
ing. become a
on top of it and keep
The timing of restricted free the injury was the swelling down.” agent, if the awkward, if league and the not ironic. union can’t 
Ray Edwards 
Edwards, agree on anew 
Vikings defensive end 
whose emer -labor contract 
gence this sea­son at left defensive end 
opposite All ­Pro Jared Allen has quietly been a critical part of this defense’s fierce pass rush and overall success, gave the Vikings the game of his life against the Cowboys. 
Three sacks, five quarter­back hurries, eight tackles — including two for a loss, according to coaching staff film review — and a forced fumble in not much more than 30 minutes of action. He came back for a few plays after getting hurt, then was done for the day with the Vikings way out in front. 
“I just felt good,” Edwards said. “We’ve got the best fans in the NFL. They made a lot of noise for us.” 
Edwards and Allen thrive off the loud home crowd per­haps as much as any other player, for the split-second advantage they can gain on opposing tackles who have trouble hearing the snap count and communicating with their teammates. The Vikings won’t have that edge on Sunday in the equally rau­cous Superdome, but the Saints aren’t about to take it easy. 
“He ’s an athletic play ­maker who had a whale of a game against Dallas,” said Saints right tackle Jon Stinchcomb, who will be lined up across from Edwards. “That just shows on a big scene: He stepped up and made huge plays for them. I’m going to have to put in the work now and prepare as much as I can, because he’s obviously a great player.” 
Allen and defensive tackles Kevin Williams and Pat and save the salary cap for the 2010 sea ­son. 

Hendrickson said he’s had some discussions with the Vikings about an extension for Edwards, but the uncer­tainty of the collective bar­gaining agreement compli­cates any negotiations. 
Edwards said he’s not con­cerned about his contract, a strictly on-field focus he has­n’t always had. The sack ­record declaration was one example of how he let himself be distracted in this early stage of his career. 
“Last year was a learning experience,” he said. “I was trying to do too many things. My personal life was kind of bogging me down a little bit. You just learn from stuff and hopefully don’t make those mistakes again. I don’t plan to. You just learn and keep growing.” 
Edwards, who left the Boilermakers after his junior season, turned 25 just three weeks ago. 
“I think the one thing peo­ple forget is that when Ray came in the league he was one of the youngest players in the draft,” Hendrickson said. “He finished his fourth year at 24 years old. There’s rookies that come in the league at 23. He ’s always been very mature, but I think it takes awhile for anyone to 
k i n d  o f  f i g u r e e v e r y t h i n g  
out.”  
O n  S u n d a y a g a i n s t  N e w  

Orleans, Edwards will go searching for another former Purdue player: Saints quar­terback Drew Brees. 
“Just to say hello, ” Edwards said, smiling. “Boiler up.” 
NFL 

Raiders interview coaches 
Associated Press 

ALAMEDA, Calif. — Oakland Raiders owner Al Davis has start­ed interviewing potential assis­tants for next season even while he continues to mull the fate of coach Tom Cable. 
ESPN.com reported the Raiders interviewed Baltimore 
Ravens quarter­backs coach Hue Jackson about becoming the team’s offen­sive coordinator. 
NFL.com reported the team inter­viewed recently fired New York Giants defensive line coach Mike Waufle, who held the same position in 

Oakland in 1998-2003, to replace Dwaine Board as line coach for the Raiders. 
“A lot of people have called inquiring about coaching posi­tions,” senior executive John Herrera said. 
Both Jackson and Waufle worked on the staff at California with Cable in the 1990s, and Jackson was offensive coordina­tor at Southern California under current Raiders quarterbacks coach Paul Hackett. 
Herrera denied a report in the San Francisco Chronicle that Davis has interviewed Jim Fassel and Marc Trestman as potential coaching candidates. 
Fassel and Trestman are for­mer Raiders assistants who have been mentioned as possible suc­cessors to Cable if he is indeed fired. Fassel, whose son John is special teams coordinator in Oakland, was an assistant with the Raiders in 1995 and led Las 
“A lot of people have called inquiring about coaching positions.” 
John Herrera Raiders executive 
Vegas to the inau­gural UFL cham­pionship last sea­son. 
Fassel told SIR­IUS XM Radio that he has not interviewed for the job. 
“I think if a coach is in place you don’t start calling somebody and seeing if the job is open or not,” Fassel said. 
“Tom Cable is the coach. ... I fol­low the Raiders pretty closely because my son is coaching there and I coached there at one time. But, no, I’m not lobbying for any job. I’m not lobbying for the Raider job. I have never in my life rooted for a coach to be let go so there’s an opening. I never have. I’m in the same fraternity. I just got my nose to the grindstone. I’m down here in Vegas working on getting situated down here and that’s where I am. Nobody’s reached out to me.” 
Trestman, who was offensive coordinator in Oakland in 2002­03, has spent the past two sea­sons coaching the Montreal Alouettes in the Canadian Football League. He took the Alouettes to the Grey Cup final in his first season and won it this past year. 
Cable’s status is in question after he went 5-11 in his first full season as coach and failed to develop JaMarcus Russell into a legitimate NFL quarterback. Cable is 9-19 since replacing Lane Kiffin early in the 2008 sea­son, leading the Raiders to their NFL-worst seventh straight sea­son with at least 11 losses. 
Cable has pointed to the team’s improvement after Russell’s mid-season benching as proof that he deserves another year to get the Raiders back to the playoffs. 
Herrera said Davis and Cable have talked extensively since the season ended, with many of those discussions coming by phone. 
“Most of the characterizations of Al Davis’ meetings with the head coach being short or brief are not true either,” Herrera said. “Mr. Davis has had meetings of some depth with the head coach. There have been meetings and meetings of substance.” 


Thursday, January 21, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
MLB 

League nears deal for series in Puerto Rico 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Major League Baseball and the players’ asso­ciation are close to moving a three-game series between the New York Mets and Florida Marlins to San Juan’s Hiram Bithorn Stadium from June 28­30, according to people familiar with the negotiations. 
Management and the union also are in the final stages of arranging a spring training trip for the Los Angeles Dodgers to play in Taiwan against the country’s national team on March 13 and 14, the people said. 
They spoke on condition of anonymity because agreements for the trips had not been com­pleted. 
The Mets-Marlins series origi­nally was set to be in Miami, and the Marlins would remain the home team. 

Hiram Bithorn hosted 22 Montreal Expos home games in each of the 2003 and 2004 sea­sons before the franchise relo­cated to Washington and was renamed the Nationals. Average attendance dropped from 14,000 in 2003 to 10,000 in 2004. 
In addition, the ballpark also hosted the 2001 season opener between Texas and Toronto, and it was the site of games during the World Baseball Classic in 2006 and 2009. 
The Dodgers have been among the major league teams most interested in international play. Two years ago, they trav­eled to Beijing for a pair of March exhibition games against the San Diego Padres. 
Their spring training trip is to be announced Friday at a news conference in Taiwan. 


NFL 

Carroll fills coaching staff 
Associated Press 

RENTON, Wash. — Pete Carroll’s coaching staff with the Seattle Seahawks is com­ing together with a heavy mix of NFL experience and few ties with Carroll’s last coach­ing job at Southern California. 
Carroll said Wednesday that most of his staff is in place with just a few posi­tions still to be filled. Carroll had previously announced that renowned offensive line coach Alex Gibbs would be joining the Seahawks after spending last season with Houston. 
Coming with Carroll from USC will be Jeremy Bates as 
offensive coordinator and Ken Norton Jr. as linebackers coach. Bates was previously the offensive coordinator in Denver before joining Carroll last season in the same posi­tion with the Trojans. Bates replaced Steve Sarkisian at USC when Sarkisian left to be the head coach at Washington. 
Before becoming the offen­sive coordinator in Denver, Bates worked as an offensive assistant in Tampa Bay and quarterbacks coach with the New York Jets. 
“It’s a really good core. A good mix of experience and background,” Carroll said. “I love the familiarity on the offensive side of the ball to make Jeremy to really ready to rock n roll and hit it full speed. And Alex is a big play­er in all of that to give us the running game emphasis that we want.” 
All of Norton ’s coaching experience has come at the college level following a 13­year NFL career with San Francisco and Dallas. Norton joined Carroll’s staff at USC in 2004. 
Brian Schneider is also coming from USC to be Seattle’s special teams coor­dinator. Schneider held the same position for one season with Carroll at USC after two seasons with the Oakland Raiders. 
Carroll is keeping two coaches from the previous staff in Seattle under former coach Jim Mora. Gus Bradley will remain as Seattle ’s defensive coordinator, while Dan Quinn will coach the defensive line for a second straight season. 
“I’m really pumped up about Gus. We’ve been work­ing late at night here to put 
our thoughts together, ” Carroll said. “And the back­ground between Gus and Monte Kiffin and myself is really unique, and were very fortunate.” 
Also joining Seattle’s defen­sive staff is Jerry Gray, who is leaving the Redskins after four seasons as their second­ary coach. Gray was previ­ously the defensive coordina­tor for five years in Buffalo and played in the league for nine seasons with the Rams, Oilers and Buccaneers. 
On the offensive side, Pat McPherson is leaving Denver to coach tight ends with the Seahawks, the position he most recently held with the Broncos. Jedd Fisch will be the quarterbacks coach after spending one season at the college level with Minnesota. Fisch worked on the Broncos staff with Bates and McPherson in 2008. 
Carroll will interview Sherman Smith on Thursday to potentially become Seattle’s new running backs coach. The 55-year-old Smith was Washington’s offensive coordinator during Jim Zorn’s brief tenure coaching the Redskins. Zorn and Smith, a former NFL running back, were teammates on the original Seahawks of 1976 through 1982. 
Last week, new Redskins coach Mike Shanahan informed Smith he won’t be back; Shanahan is bringing his son Kyle in to be Washington’s offensive coor­dinator. Smith coached run­ning backs under Jeff Fisher for the Houston Oilers and Tennessee Titans from 1995­2007. 
Carroll is also seeking a new wide receivers coach in Seattle. 
NFL 

Seahawks introduce new GM 
Associated Press 

RENTON, Wash. — John Schneider was already a candi­date for the Seattle Seahawks’ general manager position when the team bolted from the NFL norm last week and hired col­lege czar Pete Carroll to be its powerful head coach. 
Seattle’s new coach is driving the GM and the rest of the orga­nizational train, rather than vice versa. It’s not exactly how the 17-year veteran of personnel moves and recent right-hand man of Green Bay general man­ager Ted Thompson was used to operations working. 
Yet Schneider considered the credentials of Seattle’s coach, the fact Carroll would have equal or more authority than the general manager on personnel issues — and he just shrugged. The boyish-faced, 38-year-old native of rural Wisconsin signed a four-year contract to become a first-time GM anyway. 
“When this thing went down with Coach Carroll I had a moment where I thought, ‘OK, that was different.’ But that’s how they had to do it to get a guy of his caliber,” Schneider said of the man who restored a dynasty at Southern California from 2001 until last week. 
“Then I thought, ‘This job is even more attractive right now.’” 
The Seahawks introduced Schneider Wednesday to com­plete the reinventing of their broken operation that has gone 9-23 since Seattle’s last playoff appearance in January 2008. 
Schneider was picked from among four finalists. Team CEO Tod Leiweke said the immediate connection between Carroll and Schneider in last week’s inter­view was vital in the final deci­sion. 
“Most compelling for me is the amazing energy I saw between the man to my right and man to my left,” Leiweke said, sitting between Carroll and Schneider. “They connected, they saw eye to eye and they had a similar philosophy on how they wanted to do this.” 
Schneider replaces Tim Ruskell. The Seahawks forced Ruskell to resign as GM and president last month as Seattle was finishing 5-11 and losing its last four games by a combined 123-37. 
Schneider began his NFL career as a college intern who “basically stalked Ron Wolf” in 1992 before Wolf gave him a job. He has been the Packers’ director of football operations since May 2008. He was the top personnel assistant to Green Bay’s GM for six years before that. He spent 2000 as Seattle’s director of player personnel in the Seahawks regime of Thompson and former Packers coach Mike Holmgren. He was the vice president of player per­sonnel for the Redskins for one year, 2001, before returning to Green Bay. 
His role in Seattle is unique. Unlike most general managers who get say over the coaching staff, Carroll was in place for a week before Schneider’s hiring was made official. 
But both Schneider and Carroll said they hit it off from their first meeting. They ram­bled on during their initial inter­view so long they kept Leiweke late into the night and from cele­brating his 50th birthday. 
The team will be built around Carroll’s philosophy and Schneider agrees with that approach, Leiweke said. 
“If someday there is a dispute between these two guys and there’s a coin toss, we are going to build the team around this man and his players,” Leiweke said, nodding to Carroll, “Pete wins the coin toss. 
“But that’s not an issue, because (Schneider) walked in from Day One saying ‘We have a special coach and we’re going to build the team around the phi­losophy of this coach.’” 
Leiweke also clarified that salary cap and contract issues, handled by returning adminis­trator John Idzik, will be under Schneider’s control. Previously, Leiweke believed he’d have three positions atop Seattle’s remodeled football operations: “a cap/contract door” for money and number crunching; a GM door that Schneider will sit behind; “and Pete will have his own, unique door.” 
Leiweke said his job will be to ensure collaboration that has worked throughout his business career, including his last several years with Seahawks owner Paul Allen’s Vulcan management company and helping Allen run the NBA’s Portland Trail Blazers and Major League Soccer’s Seattle Sounders. 
“We wanted to create a team approach where we’re unified in our goals,” Leiweke said. “It was a heartbreaking couple of years, and in some ways people here deserve better.” 
page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, January 21, 2010 
NFL 

Saints’ Sharper ready to face old teammates 
Associated Press 
METAIRIE, La. — Darren Sharper loves a good story, even more so when it involves him. 
The NFL’s active interception king is on the cusp of only the second Super Bowl appearance of his 13-year career. To get there, his Saints must beat Minnesota, the team that let him go after last season, and Brett Favre, who was once Sharper’s teammate, then a rival, and still a friend. 
He wouldn’t returning three for touch­downs. His career interception total now stands at 63, tied with retired San Francisco safety Ronnie Lott. 

Sharper also set an NFL record for most interception return yards in a season with 376. 
“Physically, he looks as good as he’s ever looked,” Favre said. “But his instincts, those are the things you can’t coach. He makes a lot of plays. The thought is from people when you play a guy like Sharp is you can trick him to 
want it any other way. “You know, you get to  “You want to continue to read it until the end and that ending  get big plays. “In all hon-esty, you really don’t see that  
Chapter 9 in a 1 0 -c h a p t e r book, to make  hopefully will be a good ending.”  this year.” Sharper sat out practice on  
that  ending  a  Wednesday  in  
little bit more of an exciting end,  Darren Sharper Saints defensive back  order to get some extra rest  

you want to have some great story lines and this is a good one because of the relationships,” Sharper said on Wednesday at the Saints’ suburban New Orleans training center. “You know, me playing (against) my former team, Brett returning — you could say it’s his last hurrah. 
“It just makes you not want to fold that book up in Chapter 
5. You want to continue to read it until the end and that ending hopefully will be a good ending for us.” 
The beginning of Sharper’s story in the NFL dates back to 1997 when he entered the league with Green Bay. He went to his only Super Bowl in his rookie year, when the Packers lost to Denver. Favre was his teammate for eight years, then Sharper left for division rival Minnesota, facing Favre twice a year for three seasons and intercepting him once in 2006. 
Sharper, however, was not a part of Minnesota’s plans in 2009. The Vikings had a young safeties in Tyrell Johnson and Madieu Williams, to whom they gave a big con­tract last year. 
“That was an — typical of his schedule since mid season, 

when he began to have minor soreness in his left knee. 
He has continued to look sharp in games, however, recovering a fumble in the Saints’ 45-14 win over Arizona last Saturday in the divisional round. He also intercepted Warner once, making a diffi­cult catch on a tipped ball, but the play was wiped out by a roughing -the -quarterback penalty. 
Linebacker Jonathan Vilma said Sharper has performed exactly as the Saints hoped. Vilma fondly recalled the club’s effort to recruit him over din­ner at one of celebrity chef Emeril Lagasse’s restaurants, a meal attended by Vilma, gener­al manager Mickey Loomis and defensive coordinator Gregg Williams. 
“I told him he would be a perfect fit for us,” Vilma said. “He was the guy we needed to help lead our secondary and get us to this spot right now.” 
The Vikings, of course, thought the exact same thing about Favre, who spoke to 
Sharper about his decision to return to the 
easy transition “Physically, he looks NFL with for them,” Minnesota. 
as good as he’s ever 
Sharper said. “In talking to 
looked.” 
Sharper was Brett, before he interested in signed with staying in Minnesota, I
Brett Favre 
Minnesota, a told him they 
Vikings quarterback 
team he thought had a good team 
would be a con­tender, but the Vikings let him go in free agency after he had only one interception in 2008. 
The Saints, by contrast, were looking for a savvy veteran to stabilize a defensive backfield that had been prone to giving up big plays. New Orleans already had the league’s top offense, led by Drew Brees, but wound up only 8-8 last season, losing five games by three or fewer points in part because of defensive blunders. 
Sharper, who turned 34 in November, made an immediate difference, proving that his paltry interception total a sea­son earlier was not a sign of deteriorating skills. Rather, Sharper has had one of his best seasons in New Orleans, intercepting nine passes and and a team that 

was, if he went 
there, they were going to be in the running for getting to where they are now,” Sharper recalled. “He understood that. I believe that was part of his decision to return. 
“Me coming here was the same thing,” Sharper contin­ued. “We knew we had a good defense. It just needed a cou­ple pieces, a guy on the back end to kind of solidify things a little bit, make the play when you had a chance to make it. So it is kind of ironic that we’re facing off.told him he had a Super Bowl-caliber team in Minnesota before he got there. I just hope I can renege on those words and make us the Super Bowl caliber team come Sunday.” 
PGA 

Bertsch earns win at Hope 
Associated Press 

LA QUINTA, Calif. — Shane Bertsch hopped out of his RV and excelled on a course he hadn’t seen in over 10 years, opening with a 10-under 62 Wednesday at the Hope Classic for a two-stroke lead 
over Alex Prugh and Jeff Quinney. 
Bertsch was the last player to register for the five-day, four-course tournament after a comically difficult travel path from Hawaii to the Palm Springs area, yet he still posted the best round of his PGA Tour career. 
Bertsch had 10 birdies without a bogey even while helping line up putts players beginning the day wearing nothing thicker than golf shirts before the wind and moisture whipped up. 
“It was Palm Springs golf — not a lot of wind, starting to warm up,” Slocum said. “And then all of a sudden when I made the turn, it definitely kicked right back up. The wind started blowing, and it cooled off. I put the sweater back on, and obviously golf is a little more difficult.” 
Not for Bertsch — although after missing just two greens and three fairways in a siz­zling 25-putt round, he real­ized he certainly couldn’t chalk up his career day to 
rest or prepa­
ration. 

He was stuck 
in Hawaii for a 
for his pro-am “I was just day following playing part -the Sony Open, 
comfortable.” 
ners under where he fin-intermittent ished an rain and wind. Shane Bertsch encouraging 
“I was just Professional golfer 25th, with his 
comfortable,” Bertsch said. “I always like these formats, because I help the guys out, and it keeps me maybe not so focused on myself until it’s time to hit, and then I just go and hit.” 
J.P. Hayes, George McNeill, Joe Ogilvie and Garrett Willis were three strokes back. Heath Slocum, who skipped last week’s Sony Open while his wife gave birth, was in a large group at 6 under. 
The rain pelting Southern California this week didn’t really cause trouble until later Wednesday, with many 
wife and daugh ters when their red-eye flight was canceled. They eventual­ly flew Monday night from Hawaii to Phoenix, where the Denver native picked up his RV and drove across the 
d es e r t  t o  b l us t e r y  P alm  
S pr in gs,  ar r i vin g  la t e  
Tuesday afternoon.  

Quinney, Bertsch and the 25-year-old Prugh all played the idiosyncratic Nicklaus Private course, which is con­sidered among the easiest on tour — but Bertsch hadn’t visited it since qualifying school in the 1990s. Thanks to his travel woes, he didn’t even get a refresher look before teeing it up. 
“It was like a new adven­ture over every hill,” Bertsch said. “I didn’t know really what to expect. It was one of those courses I just didn’t remember a lot about.” 
Yet Bertsch is no stranger to difficult paths through golf. His entire career has been one big challenge. 
He was off the tour from 1997 until 2006, when his comeback was derailed by a bout of vertigo, which side­lined him for most of 2007. He got a medical exemption to play in 2008, but finished 126th on the money list after sitting out late-season tour­naments when he mistakenly thought his card for 2009 was safe. 
Bertsch then he broke his right foot while slipping on the stairs at his home in late 2008, limiting him to two PGA Tour events and four Nationwide Tour stops last year. A solid performance in Q-school last month got him back on track. 
Although the weather largely behaved, the field might not get as lucky Thursday, when heavier rain is expected — and Bertsch’s outstanding opening round could loom even larger. 
“It was moist. It wasn’t wet,” said Hayes, making his season debut after a strong Q-school comeback. “We played the ball up, (but) we didn’t really have to. It’s probably more in anticipation 
of what might come than what was today.” 

Thursday, January 21, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
Palmieri 
continued from page 20 
for Palmieri’s success. 
“It’s a great thrill for all of us to know he was part of a good medal team,” Jackson said. “What a great thrill for the rest of your life. You can win a championship, but when you win one for your country, you know the meaning behind it. It’s the ultimate team.” 
The tournament marked Palmieri’s second opportunity to wear the red, white and blue after being a member of the U.S. National Under-18 team prior to coming to Notre Dame. 
“It was such a honor to play, and it was incredible to put the 
U.S. 
jersey on again,” Palmieri said. “It’s definitely up there as one of the top moments in my life. I was proud to represent my country and, obviously, to win a gold medal for us.” 

In seven games for the U.S. team, Palmieri finished third on the team in points with eight assists and a goal as the 

U.S. 
rolled to a 6-1-0 record. The team’s only blemish was a loss in the preliminaries against Canada on New Year’s Eve. 


While the U.S. seized an early lead, Canada rallied en route to a 5-4 shootout win. Palmieri called the game a turning point for his team. 
“I think after the first few games against Slovakia and Latvia, we kind of knew we could beat those teams as long we played our game,” Palmieri said. “We were surprised when we got that early lead and competed the way we did against Canada. I think that really helped our confidence. We knew they were just like us 

— a bunch of under-20-year­olds.” 
The U.S. team found itself trailing early in the champi­onship, but a goal set up by Palmieri tied the game at 1-1. The Canadians rallied late to bring the game into overtime. However, U.S. defenseman John Carlson’s winning slap-shot from the left circle silenced the crowd as the U.S. team poured onto the ice in a jubilant 6-5 victory. 
“It was a surreal moment,” Palmieri said. “Playing in Canada, against a team that had five straight golds … we went in there and surprised a lot of people.” 
Jackson gave Palmieri a week off after the tournament before rejoining the team for last weekend’s home-and-away series against Michigan State. Palmieri felt the experience would energize him for Notre Dame’s push to make ground in the CCHA. 
“I wanted to start the second half [of the season] strong,” Palmieri said. “I had a weak first half in my opinion, and I wanted to bring the energy back from the World Juniors and be productive in the sec­ond half.” 
Palmieri and the rest of the Irish will travel to Sault Ste. Marie, Mich., this weekend for a pair of games against confer­ence foe Lake Superior State. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
FENCING 

Fencers begin competition 
By KEVIN BALDWIN 
Sports Writer 

After months of tireless practice and anticipation, the Irish look to make a state­ment to the fencing world with the start of intercolle­giate play this weekend in New York City. In spite of stiff competition the Irish are confident that they can meet and hopefully exceed the lofty standards set by previ­ous squads. 
Under the leadership of head coach Janusz Bednarski 
— former coach of the Polish Olympic team — they have won two NCAA titles since 2003 and have been the defending runner up in team competition for the last two years, second only to Penn State. 
In a sport that often does­n’t receive the level of expo­sure as the likes of football and basketball, the Irish have a reputation in the fencing world as a consis­tently dominant program, boasting two former Olympians — senior Kelly Hurley on the women’s team and sophomore Gerek Meinhardt on the men’s. Others who have a presence in the world cup circuit include juniors Zach Avery and Barron Nydam, forces to be reckoned with in the men’s saber, plus sophomore Courtney Hurley with four gold medals in the women’s junior category. 
In addition to the afore­mentioned, Bednarski is thrilled with other members of the team, freshman and veteran alike, who have stepped up throughout the year. 
“Hayley Reese in womens foil will be showing up [this weekend], her silver medal in the last national champi­onship was not an accident, she is growing as an ath­lete,” Bednarski said. “We have some new freshmen who are very talented such as James Kaull and Jason Choy in sabre and Enzo Castellani.” 
However, the tide may have already turned as Irish fencers bested their Nittany Lion rivals in just about every event last weekend in individual competition at the USFA North America qualifi­er in San Jose, Calif., with six fencers taking top -10 spots compared to just one for Penn State. 
But don’t expect the Irish to rest on their laurels; they feed their drive for success by constant competition within the team, pushing one another to achieve a higher level of talent. Each school is limited to the number of fencers they can send to each competition: five per event for men’s and women’s for regional finals and only two per event for nationals. 
“It looks to be an interest­ing competition not only on the NCAA level but internally here: who will go on to rep­resent us in the finals,” Bednarski said, “They have to compete between them­selves, not only against oth­ers but in practice which is important.” 
It will be a long road to the top, especially since every year the level of competitive­ness in the NCAA intensifies as the sport of fencing grows at the collegiate level. 
“Fencing in an emerging sport, like soccer, it became more and more important for some colleges especially who want to get more individual sports into the program,” Bednarski said. 
For now, the Irish will set their sights on the weekend and use the experience to gauge themselves off of oth­ers in order to continue their quest for their first champi­onship since 2005, and con­tinue to be one of the most successful athletic programs at Notre Dame. 
“It is better to compete as the underdog but we have to look behind us because other teams are so close that there will be a lot of competition,” Bednarski said. 
Contact Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwin@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, January 21, 2010 
Hinton 
continued from page 24 
to Ohio State for two years before beginning his head coaching career in the high school ranks. Shortly after­wards, he spent three years at Ohio University before spend­ing more than a decade as head coach at Marion Harding High School in Marion, Ohio, where he enjoyed sustained success. 
In 2004, Hinton moved to Cincinnati to coach under Mark Dantonio. When Dantonio moved to Michigan State in 2007, Hinton retained his spot on the coaching staff under Kelly, Dantonio’s suc­cessor. 
Throughout his coaching career, he has served in such myriad roles as wide receivers, linebackers, defen­sive line and running backs coach, as well as recruiting coordinator for Cincinnati last year. 
“The mindset from an offen­sive standpoint is that we want to be aggressive,” Kelly said. “It’s not about anything else but scoring points.” 

To that end, Kelly and offen­sive coordinator Charley Molnar will install the same spread offense they imple­mented at Cincinnati. The spread does not rely much on a traditional power running back, but rather on a much more versatile back, accord­ing to Hinton, who says he will coach and develop three dis­tinct areas of play. 
“One, it’s what God gave you … and that’s running the ball,” Hinton said. “Every run­ning back wants to carry the ball and will carry the ball, even in the spread offense. Two … their ability to run as a wide receiver and catch the ball. [Three], the area that no one likes to talk about — you better be a great pass protec­tor.” 
To that end, Hinton will recruit running backs based on three characteristics that relate to the three areas iden­tified: explosiveness, catching ability and toughness. Although he says that body type does not necessarily mat­ter, it seems that the running backs of the near future at Notre Dame will look more like Armando Allen than Robert Hughes. 
In addition to focusing on the pass-catching abilities of the running backs, Hinton will also focus on another major aspect of the spread offense: the read option. An integral part of Molnar’s attack, the read option will be new to most of the running backs on the roster; teaching it will be 
one of Hinton’s foremost responsibilities. 
Hinton has not studied the current running back corps (led by senior Allen, junior Hughes and sophomore Theo Riddick) beyond what he has seen on television due to the frenzy of the recruiting sea­son. 
“I’ve told them all, I’m going to give them a clean slate,” he said. “I’m not really listening to what people are telling me about every kid, and I’m not going to watch a ton of film.” He will, however, utilize now-wide receivers coach Alford, who coached this group previ­ously, especially for motiva­tional purposes. 
Hinton will also be involved in recruiting, especially in Ohio and Florida, where he 

Alford 
continued from page 20 
more difficult than the decision to stay with the Irish, Alford said. But he believed it to be the right one for himself and for the team. 
“I didn’t know what to say [when Kelly asked],” Alford said. “I thought it over, talked to some people who are very close to me … and I think it’s in my best interest. Professionally and selfishly, I think it’s a good move. It will expand my knowl­edge base and résumé, if you will, for the things I want to accomplish in my career. 
“At the same time, I believe that if Coach Kelly didn’t believe this would be in the best interest of the football team, he wouldn’t do it.” 
In his time at Notre Dame Alford has also had a hand in recruiting, something Kelly emphasized as one of Alford’s strengths. 
For the Class of 2010, he has 
Minor 
continued from page 20 
has completely dedicated herself to making this year her year. She stayed in South Bend this summer taking classes and training at the Irish facilities. 
“She worked very hard this summer and came into the fall with an unbeliev ­able attitude, very focused on what she wants to accomplish, ” Garnham said. 
Although her coaches have laid out specific goals for her to accomplish this year, Minor holds herself to a standard higher than even her coaches demand. 
“I know my goals for her, we have spoken about them, ” Garnham said. “I believe she has set some higher goals than what I was thinking.” 
In order to achieve those goals, Minor has been hit­ting the track, gym and weight room hard to get to the level at which she needs to be to compete for Big East titles. 

recruited four-star running back commitment Giovanni Bernard, four-star defensive tackle commitment Louis Nix and four-star wide receiver and early enrollee Tai-ler Jones, among others. 
“He understands what it takes from my end to recruit,” Kelly said. “He’s a tireless recruiter, outstanding in the homes … he does a terrific job.” 
Though Alford is excited about the amount of talent he will have to work with when he begins coaching the wide receivers, he said he has not looked far ahead. 
“I’ve been busy recruiting, and trying to finalize this class,” he said. “That’s kind of been the focus at this junc­ture.” 
However, he said he already knows his main responsibility to star receiver Michael Floyd. 
“Just don’t screw him up,” he said. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

“In the weight room, she straight gets after it, ” Garnham said. 
Aside from her personal achievements, Minor has shown strong leadership on and off the track. 
“[Her teammates] look up to her for her leadership,” Garnham said. 
Minor has always been a jumper and has competed in the long and triple jumps the past three seasons . This season, she has added the 60 -meter dash to her résumé to help her work on runway speed. Minor has also competed in the 100­and 200-meters in the past. 
As good as the past has been and the present is for Minor right now, the future looks brighter than ever, especially in her featured event. 
“It has been a pleasure to work with Jaime, ” Garnham said. “She is a very talented athlete who I believe is just beginning to scratch the surface in the triple jump.” 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

has a significant amount of experience. 
Above all, he is excited to be at Notre Dame and work toward his stated goal of mak­ing Kelly the nation’s best coach. 
“This is a great place,” he said. “It’s a dream come true.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
Elston 
continued from page 20 

the country in 2009 with 28.5 yards per return and were fourth with three returns for a touchdown. 
“He’s just done a great job for us, developing our play­ers,” Kelly said. “That’s really what this is about, developing them from freshman year to senior year.” 
This will be Elston’s 12th year as an assistant in the NCAA’s Football Bowl Subdivision. Before he joined Championship. 
Kelly said the two had addressed Elston’s possible loyalties to Michigan. 
“He does have one thing going against him, so we worked on that, cleaned that up quite a bit,” he said. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 


Kelly at Central Michigan, he spent three years as an assis­tant at Eastern Michigan, first as a defensive ends coach in 2001 and then as defensive line coach and recruiting coor­dinator in 2002-03. Before that, he spent two years as a graduate assistant at the University of Michigan, his alma mater, where he had been a three-year letter win­ner as an outside linebacker. Elston served as assistant to the football camp director prior to becoming a graduate assistant, and was in this role in 1997 when the Wolverines went 12-0 and won a National 

Thursday, January 21, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Thursday, January 21, 2010 page 20 
FOOTBALL 

New boss, new job? No problem 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Tony Alford may have a dif­ferent post on the new Notre Dame staff, but some things will never change. 
“I’m going to yell at [Armando Allen] every day,” he said. “Armando will never get too far away.” 
Alford, the only constant from the staff of former coach Charlie Weis, has spent all 15 years of his coaching career teaching running backs. However, he will move to wide receivers coach this season. 
“When you take a coach that’s only coached that posi­tion, he becomes almost a spe­cialist in one area,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said at a press con­ference Friday. “I don’t want specialists. I want great teach­ers and great educators that can communicate across the board.” 

Alford admitted that he will have some studying to do in order to make a successful switch. However, he said his approach is no different from before. 
“You roll your sleeves up and you go to work,” he said. “I like to pride myself and think I’m a good teacher. I want to lead the men the right way. At the end of the day it still comes out to working hard, putting in a good day’s work.” 
Weis hired Alford as running backs coach in 2009 after he had spent two years in that position at Louisville. Before that, he had also coached run­ning backs at Iowa State, Washington, Kent State and Mount Union. 
The Kent, Ohio, native had a previous relationship with Kelly when one of Alford’s rela­tives played for Kelly at Grand Valley State. Thus, he said, it was easy for him to agree to stay at Notre Dame. 
“When [Kelly] got the job, he gave me a call and said are you interested in staying, and of course I said yes,” Alford said. 
He said he thinks his rela­tionship with the current play­ers will help as the new staff begins its work. 
“I think that will bode well as far as the players knowing who I am, as far as expectations,” he said. “For the most part it’s just about having a previous relationship with the players already in place and kind of going from there.” 
The decision to switch to coaching wide receivers was 
see ALFORD/page 18 

Elston to guide defensive line 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
New Irish defensive line coach Mike Elston is used to having plenty of responsibili­ties under coach Brian Kelly. This year should be no excep­tion. 
Elston, who has coached with Kelly since 2004, served as assistant head coach, defen­sive line coach and special teams coordinator at Cincinnati during the 2009 season while also functioning as a top recruiter. 
With the Irish, he will contin­ue to coordinate special teams along with his defensive duties. 
“[Elston has] been on offense and defense and he also takes charge of special teams,” Kelly said in a press conference Friday. “He does a terrific job.” 
Under Kelly at Central Michigan, Elston coached the defensive line in 2004-05 and linebackers there in 2006. He spent time as co-defensive coordinator in 2005 and spe­cial teams coordinator in 2006. 
Elston then made the move to Cincinnati with Kelly in 2007. In his first two years there, he served as tight ends coach, special teams coordina­tor and recruiting coordinator. 
Kelly said Elston would remain special teams coach for the upcoming season, though Kelly may add another mem­ber to his staff in the future. 
“Elston has the best knowl­edge base on special teams. We do want to assist him and than I have in the past because it is a big load … but before we transition out those special teams, it won’t be for another year,” Kelly said. 

Elston had to work with a young defensive line in 2009, having to replace all of his 2008 starters. He also helped to transition the defense from a 4-3 to a 3-4 scheme. 
Despite those challenges, Cincinnati’s rush defense held opponents to 3.6 yards per carry and ranked third in the country in tackles for loss and 10th in sacks. The defensive line was responsible for 57 of the tackles for loss and 25.5 sacks. 
Elston’s kickoff return unit at Cincinnati finished second in 
we’re going to do that more see ELSTON/page 18 
Hinton ready to lead pack of backs 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 

“You know, he’s just a good ol’ ball coach.” 
So said Irish head coach Brian Kelly when introducing his new running backs coach Tim Hinton, with whom Kelly has worked since 2007. Hinton is one of nine assistant coaches on the staff, one of five on the offensive side of the ball, and one of four who came to Notre Dame from Cincinnati alongside Kelly. He replaces Tony Alford as run­ning backs coach, who has moved to wide receivers coach. 
Hinton, a south-central Ohio native, hails from a family of coaching brothers. His broth­er Ron is one of the win­ningest active high school coaches in Ohio, long consid­ered one of the most competi­tive states in the nation. 
Hinton began his coaching career at Wilmington College, where he started off as a stu­dent assistant coach in 1981 before moving to tight ends and wide receivers coaches from 1982-84. He then moved 
see HINTON/page 18 
HOCKEY 

Golden break for Palmieri 

VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer Freshman wing Kyle Palmieri played on the U.S. World Junior team that defeated Team Canada in the championships. 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
While most of the Irish were home with family over winter break, one player was skating in the biggest game of his life. 
Notre Dame wing Kyle Palmieri was a key member of the U.S. World Junior team’s magical run to the gold in Saskatchewan, defeating Team Canada in a dramatic 6-5 overtime championship game on Jan. 
5. The freshman was one of 11 Division I players on the team and the 13th Irish player in team history to be selected to the U.S. World Junior team. 
Irish coach Jeff Jackson, who guided the 1997 U.S. World Junior team to a sil­ver medal, expressed his joy 
see PALMIERI/page 17 


VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer Former running backs coach Tony Alford will coach the Irish wide receivers this season. 
TRACK AND FIELD 

Minor jumping for senior season goals 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 

Senior jumper Jaime Minor is starting off her senior season on the right foot. Always a determined athlete, Minor has stepped it up a notch in her final year. 
“Jaime has made a huge turn around since I have come to Notre Dame,” Irish jumping coach Jim Garnham said. “With her training, work ethic and her entire attitude toward track and field.” 
A three -time Big East championships competitor in the triple jump, twice indoor and once outdoor, Minor has been working hard to make steady progress over the years. This year, she is in position to a make a serious run at the Big East again in the long jump, triple jump and 60-meter dash. 
Minor had an impressive performance to start the season at the Blue and Gold Meet with a fourth place finish in the 60 -meter dash, a second place finish in the long jump and set a Big East qualifying mark at 
11.30 meters in the triple jump, winning the event. 
In the Notre Dame Indoor Opener, Minor finished 
sixth in the 60-meter  dash  
a n d  f o u r t h  i n  t h e  l o n g  
j u m p .  B u t  i n  h e r  b e s t  

event, the triple jump, Minor captures first with a Big East qualifying mark with a jump of 11 .38 meters. 
To get to this point, Minor 
see MINOR/page 18 




