the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Obama addresses students 
By LAURA MYERS 
News Writer 
President Barack Obama urged young people to stay involved in the political process Monday during a con­ference call with student jour­nalists. 
“You’ve got to take the time to find out where does your congressional candidate stand on various issues, where does your Senate candidate stand on various issues and make an educated decision and par­ticipate in this process — because democracy is never a one-and-done proposition,” Obama said. “It’s something that requires sustained engagement and sustained involvement. And I just want to remind everybody of that.” 
The Observer was one of many student publications to participate in the conference call, which Obama called in order to discuss issues facing students and other young Americans. 
Obama began by outlining his administration’s plans to improve higher education. He listed three goals, which are to make college more afford­able, to ensure higher educa­tion prepares students to enter the workforce and to encourage students to finish college. 
“The key here is that we want to open the doors of our colleges and universities to more people so they can learn, they can graduate and they can succeed in life,” Obama said. 
Obama’s message was one of optimism, and he expressed confidence that students would be able to find jobs upon graduation. 


“Things are real tough for young people right now,” he said. “But having said that, if you are getting a college degree, if you’ve got skills in math and science or good, sound communication skills, there are still jobs out there even in a tough environment.” 
And while improving the economy should help stop the inflation of college costs, a certain amount of the burden lies on universities them ­selves, Obama said. 
“You guys have to be good consumers, and your parents have to be good consumers, and we’ve got to offer you more information,” he said. “You should know where your tuition is going. There should be a pie chart at every univer­sity that says, out of every dollar you spend in tuition, here’s where your money is going.” 
The conference call was part of a whole day in which the administration addressed the issue of education at dif­ferent levels. 
see OBAMA/page 4 

Tomlin gives life advice during standup show 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY and 

CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writers 

“An Evening with Lily Tomlin” entertained a sold-out crowd in Saint Mary’s O’Laughlin Auditorium as the award-winning actress shared her many years of 
c h a r a c t e r s  a n d  s t a n d u p  
comedy.  
To m l i n  c a m e  t o  S a i n t  

Mary’s as part of the Margaret Hill endowed lec­ture series, which brought director Hal Prince and actress Glenn Close to the stage in past years. 
In her show, Tomlin said, “it’s not easy being a star.” 
Through a series of clips from her career, Tomlin told students she’s been on a rollercoaster of career ups and downs. However, she made it to the pinnacle of her career by “going on the road to please Saint Mary’s.” 
After sharing in the pain of Notre Dame’s loss to Stanford Saturday, consoling the audience that “in every­one’s life, a little darkness must fall,” Tomlin confessed some of her worries. 
“Most actors worry about playing to an empty house. I also worry about playing to a full house and leaving the audience empty,” Tomlin said. 
Through a series of char­acter changes, Tomlin instilled life lessons in the Saint Mary’s audience. 
She compared Facebook and Twitter to a black hole that sucks in all light and time. 
“When does something stop being trendy,” she asked, “and qualify as being a disorder?” 
She also addressed the issue of reality television shows. 
“Before anybody else has their own reality show, they should provide proof that their lives have actually been in touch with reality,” Tomlin said. 
In one of her many char­acter changes, Tomlin addressed the issue of reali­ty itself, and how it may not be such a bad thing to go against the grain. 
“Don’t worry about what other people think of you,” she said, repeating her father’s advice. 
She also spoke about her own role models and inspi­rations, sharing childhood stories involving her ele­mentary school teacher. 
Tomlin taught said every student should aspire to be somebody, no matter how mundane that somebody may seem. Tomlin herself previously wanted to make it big as a waitress, but instead, stumbled upon Broadway. She also said it is important to have great ideas, and to never worry about sharing those revela­tions with others. 
see TOMLIN/page 6 


Women’s rugby team makes school history 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
This year, the 17 students on Notre Dame’s first-ever women’s rugby club team are making school history and starting a suc­cessful program with an 84-0 win already under their belts. 
The team at Notre Dame formed during the 2009-10 school year, but began competing in matches this fall. Priscilla Nyankson, a sophomore who joined the team last year, said it has been a great experience so far. 
“We’re making Notre Dame his­tory,” Nyankson said. “It’s one of the coolest things I’ve done here as of yet. A lot of people coming here aren’t going to be varsity athletes, but with rugby I get to play a sport and be part of a team.” 

After a loss in their first scrim­mage against Eastern Illinois University, the team had two suc­cessive wins, including the 84-0 win Saturday over Northwestern University. 
“I noticed that we made a lot of mistakes in the scrimmage because we didn’t know a lot of the rules,” Nyankson said, “but with that we were able to learn a lot.” 
Learning the rules of the game was something almost all of the girls went through together, Nyankson said. Although every­one on the team was an athlete in high school, only two or three had ever played rugby before. 
“It was definitely difficult for everybody. We were learning something totally new,” Nyankson said. “It was kind of frustrating in the beginning.” 
Despite these difficulties, Nyankson was hooked on the sport ever since she began last year. 
“It was super exciting,” Nyankson said. “Even waking up at 6:30 in the morning last year for practice, yeah you kind of cry about it, but after you feel great about it. We really bonded as a team and it was really nice to be a part of something like that.” 
Last year the team was much larger, with around 30 members. Sophomore returning member Veronica Ryan said many girls were intimidated by the rough-

see RUGBY/page 3 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Lily Tomlin speaks at SMC page 3  Frontier Ruckus interview page 11  Interhall football recap page 20  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Tuesday, September 28, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: HOW CAN WE ACH EVE WORLD PEACE?

THE OBSERVER 









P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 

Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 

SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 

and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports
Laura McCrystal Eric Prister Kristen Durbin Megan FinneranEmily Schrank Joe Wirth 

Graphics Scene 
Brandon Keelean Marissa Frobes 

Photo Viewpoint 
Pat Coveney Ren Brauweiler 
OFFBEAT 

Knife removed from Brazil man’s head after three years 
SAO PAULO — A man in northeastern Brazil is recovering after surgeons removed a 4-inch (10-cen­timeter) blade that had been stuck in his head for three years following a bar fight. Edeilson Nascimento, a 29-year-old tire repair­man, tells reporters Friday he is feeling great after the three-hour surgery earlier this week. 
He is expected to be released from a hospital in the city of Recife next week. 
Nascimento says he got into a bar fight in 2007 and was attacked by assailants when he returned home. 
At the time, doctors only 
Alyce Kanabrocki  Christie Ahn  Maya Younes  James Jones Jr.  Theresa Lai  Jim Bradley  
sophomore  sophomore  junior  senior  sophomore  junior  
Breen Phillips  Lewis  Pangborn  Carroll  Lewis  Keenan  

“Free hugs and  “Make love not  “Effective  “Better football  “If I knew I  “Hope for the  
tie-dye.”  war.”  cross-cultural  teams.”  wouldn’t tell  best.”  
communication  you.”  
is the first step.  
Then we hold  
hands.”  




Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

removed the knife handle, fearing that pulling the blade from his head would cause brain damage. 
But three years of intense headaches led Nascimento to take a chance on the surgery. 
Arrest made in ‘Where’s Waldo’ bank robbery 
PORTLAND, Ore. — The FBI says it has made an arrest in an Oregon bank robbery after the suspect posted a claim of responsi­bility on Facebook. 
Spokeswoman Beth Anne Steele says Ryan Homsley was arrested Friday. She says investigators filed a complaint Wednesday in federal court, charging Homsley with Tuesday’s robbery at a Key Bank branch in suburban Tualatin. 
Steele says Homsley has been a hospital patient since Thursday and would be scheduled for a court appearance upon his release. 
A posting on Homsley’s Facebook page said “im doing this to pay for my medical expenses. ... live for today!” His brother has said Homsley has a serious drug problem and is a dia­betic. 
He was dubbed the “Where’s Waldo” bandit, based on his appearance in surveillance photos. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 

The seminar “Self-assem­bling Block Copolymers for Gene Delivery and Biomineralization” will take place today at 3:30 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall room 138. Surya K. Mallapragada , department chair of Interdisciplinary Engineering at Iowa State University, will present. 
The lecture “Blockading the Border and Human Rights: The El Paso Operation that Remade Immigration Enforcement” will take place today at 4 
p.m. in McKenna Hall room 
112 
. Timothy J. Dunn , associate professor of soci­

ology 
at Salisbury University in Maryland, will present. 


The University Counseling Center will sponsor “Peace of Mind: The Art of Mindful Relaxation” on Wednesday at 4:05 p.m. in the Saint Liam Hall Conference Room. The event is free and open to all Notre Dame stu­dents, faculty and staff. 
The Center for Social Concerns (CSC) will sponsor a Postgraduate Service Fair on Wednesday from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. in the Joyce Center Concourse. Representatives from over 75 service pro ­grams will be present. 
The Student Union Board (SUB) and Joint Engineering Council will sponsor a Boston College game watch on Saturday at 7:30 p.m. at Legends. Admission is free and the Irish Dance Team will perform. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
CORRECTIONS 

In a Sept. 23 article titled “Saint Mary’s holds memorial service,” one of the quotes from Gail Mandell, a profes­sor at the College, should read, “Bruno was a man of great emotional complexity,” not “Bruno was a man of blatant emotional complexity.” Also, the quote, “That’s 20 of his seasons and every season I spent with Bruno, I discovered more surprises,” should read “That’s quite a few seasons, and every season I spent with Bruno 



brought revelations and surprises.” The Observer regrets this error. 

LOW 49 49 LOW 53 48 LOW 45 40 




Tuesday, September 28, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Cargill donates to ND Haiti program 
By REBECCA MORIARTY 
News Writer 
Cargill, a company that pro­duces and markets food, agricul­ture and other products, donated $20,000 to Notre Dame’s Haiti Program, the University announced in a press release. 
The donation will go toward purchasing raw salt for the Haiti Program, which works to elimi­nate lymphatic filariasis, also known as elephantiasis, a disease that affects approximately one-third of the Haitian population. It is caused by parasites that cause extensive swelling in arms, legs and other body parts. 
Cargill’s donation is important to the Haiti Program because lymphatic filariasis can be treat­ed with the use of table salt. 
“Medicated salt has been proven as the most effective sec­ondary treatment, particularly in Haiti where diets tend to be salt-rich,” Fr. Thomas Streit, founder 
of  the  Notre  Dame  Haiti  
Program,  said  in  the  press  
release.  

The average Haitian consumes the exact amount of salt in their diet to be an effective treatment for lymphatic filariasis. 
This salt will come from Cargill’s solar salt facility in the Bonaire, Netherlands Antilles. Bromo Industrial, a Dominican Republic company and customer of Cargill, will deliver the salt to 


Rugby 
continued from page 1 
ness when they began practicing the game as a contact sport. 
“We couldn’t play contact until the very end of the year, so there were a lot of girls who showed up then realized that they didn’t like the contact part of the sport,” Ryan said. 
Because they lost some players in the spring, the team hopes to recruit throughout the season. Nyankson said no experi­ence is needed and everyone is encouraged to try it. 
“We’re absolutely looking for people of all ages to join,” Nyankson said. “None of us knew how to play. We can teach you everything you need to know.” 
The team meets Monday the Haiti Program. 

“When we talk about why our salt business exists, we say it is to nourish people and enhance lives every day,” Ruth Kimmelshure, president of Cargill Salt, said in the press release. 
Cargill and Notre Dame previ­ously both worked with the Salt Institute, based in the U.S., which is the world’s foremost source of information about salt and its uses. Cargill produces salt for agricultural, food, water condi­tioning, industrial and packaged salt control. 
The Haiti Program began working with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to eliminate lymphatic filariasis in Haiti nearly 20 years ago. The program plans to administer drugs for lymphatic filariasis across the entire nation of Haiti by 2011. This plan is still on tar­get despite the January earth­quake in Haiti. 
“By helping to address this problem in Haiti, Notre Dame provides hope and relief to the Haitian people while living out the Notre Dame mission to culti­vate in its students not only an appreciation for the great achievements of human beings, but also a disciplined sensibility to the poverty, injustice and oppression that burden the lives of so many,” Streit said. 
Contact Rebecca Moriarty at rmoriar2@nd.edu 

through Friday, with two days of contact practice, two days of weight lifting and one day of practicing plays and game-like situations. They play matches Saturdays on McGlinn Fields. 
The team has two home match­es and two away matches remaining this season. The next home match is against DePaul University on Oct. 9 at 9 a.m. 
Once the official season ends, the team will practice for the rest of the year. 
Senior player Danielle Tan said that the team has high hopes for the future. 
“Notre Dame is so big on tradi­tion, and we’re really hoping that the team becomes a permanent part of the tradition here,” Tan said. 

Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 


Students create errand service 
By LAUREN KELLY 
News Writer 

Is it hard to find time to run errands between schoolwork, sports and clubs? Problem solved: erraNDs-4-U, a new student-run delivery service, will do the shopping for you. 
Senior Shea Streeter and junior Angelise Hadley began the business with just $30 as a project for their introduc­tion to entrepreneurship class. 
“Everyone here is so busy that it’s often a huge ordeal to have to get off campus for little day-to-day items, espe­cially for the people who don’t have cars. When given the task to start a business, I thought that we’d be able to reach a huge portion of the student population and would hopefully be able to make their lives a little easier,” Hadley said. 
Streeter said they began the project because it is often inconvenient for students 
who live on “People who we’ve 
campus to 

told about the
get toiletries and other business or essential advertised to have all items. 
said that it is a great
“Every year I’ve been at idea and a much 
Notre Dame needed service.” it’s been a struggle to 
Angelise Hadley 
try to get off campus to go founder shopping for erraNDs-4-U the things I need. I know venient alternative to taking a taxi or going without neces­sities like shampoo for days,” Streeter said. 

Drivers shop at both Super Target and Super Wal-Mart and service fees are $5 for one to five items, $7 for six to 
10 items and $10 for more than 10 items. They make deliveries on Tuesdays and Fridays. 
Students also have the option to ride along to the store for a $5 fee. Seats are on a first-come­fi rst-served basis. 
To place an order, students can either send an e-mail to the new service has been pos­itive thus far. 
“People who we’ve told about the business or adver­tised to have all said that it is a great idea and a much-needed service,” Hadley said. 
Currently, services are pro­vided solely to students living on campus at Notre Dame. 
“Right now, we are putting our focus on the Notre Dame dorms. However, that’s not to say that we won’t expand to Saint Mary’s College and off-campus students in the future,” Hadley said. 
Just in its beginning stage, Streeter and Hadley are the sole errand-runners, but they said the business has great potential to expand. 
“We hope to be able to reach as many students as possible and maybe expand to have more students work­ing for us as drivers and deliverers,” Hadley said. 
Contact Lauren Kelly at lkelly3@nd.edu 

that there are lots of other students who have the same difficulty, so I started erraNDs-4-U with Angelise in order to give students a con­nderrands@gmail.com or fill out an order form through a Facebook page at www.face­book.com/ND.erraNDs4U. 
Hadley said feedback about 


page 4 The Observer  NEWS Tuesday, September 28, 2010 

Obama 
continued from page 1 
Monday morning, Obama appeared on NBC’s “Today” show to talk about public education reform in elemen­tary and secondary schools. Monday afternoon, Dr. Jill Biden, wife of Vice President Joe Biden, spoke at NBC’s “Education Nation” summit in New York City, where she emphasized the importance 
of community colleges in higher education. 
The conference call also came at the beginning of a national tour of colleges for Obama and Biden. Obama is scheduled to speak at a rally at the University of Wisconsin-Madison Tuesday, and Biden is scheduled to speak at Penn State Tuesday. 
Obama said the goal of those visits is to underscore the importance of young vot­ers in the Nov. 2 midterm elections. 
“You can ’t sit it out, ” Obama said. “You can’t sud­denly just check in once every 10 years or so, on an exciting presidential elec­tion, and then not pay attention during big midterm elections where we’ve got a real big choice between Democrats and Republicans.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 



Shortage delays executions 

said new batches of sodium thiopental will not be available until January at the earliest. 
Nine states have a total of 17 executions scheduled between now and the end of January, including Missouri, Ohio, Oklahoma, Tennessee and Texas. 
“We are working to get it back onto the market for our customers as soon as possi­ble,” Hospira spokesman Dan Rosenberg said. 
But at least one death penal­ty expert was skeptical of Hospira’s explanation, noting that the company has made it clear it objects to using its drugs for executions. Hospira also makes the two other chemicals used in lethal injec­tions. 
Sodium thiopental is a barbi­turate, used primarily to anes­thetize surgical patients and induce medical comas. It is also used to help terminally ill people commit suicide and sometimes to euthanize ani­mals. 
Thirty-three of the states that have lethal injection employ the three-drug combi­nation that was created in the 1970s: First, sodium thiopen­tal is given by syringe to put the inmate to sleep. Then two other drugs are administered: pancuronium bromide, which paralyzes muscles, and potas­sium chloride, which stops the heart. 
Ohio and Washington state use just one drug to carry out executions: a single, extra-large dose of sodium thiopen­tal. 
Hospira has blamed the shortage on “raw-material supplier issues” since last spring, first promising avail­ability in July, then October, then early 2011. The company has refused to elaborate on the problem. But according to a letter obtained by The Associated Press from the Kentucky governor’s office, Hospira told state officials that it lost its sole supplier of the drug’s active ingredient and was trying to find a new one. 
As for the possibility of obtaining the drug elsewhere, the Food and Drug Administration said there are no FDA-approved manufactur­ers of sodium thiopental over­seas. 
Switching to another anes­thetic would be difficult for some states. Some, like California, Missouri and Kentucky, adopted their execu­tion procedures after lengthy court proceedings, and chang­ing drugs could take time and invite lawsuits. 
Obtaining sodium thiopental from hospitals does not appear to be an option, either. Sodium thiopental has been largely supplanted by other anesthet­ics in the U.S., and hospitals do not stock much of it. 
Also, drug purchasing and use rules — and ethical guide­lines that bar the medical pro­fession from getting involved in executions — could prevent hospitals from supplying pris­ons with the drug, according to industry experts. 
“Many of these cases, the victims have waited for 20 years, some of them longer than that. If we’re out of that drug, we need to have an alternative,” said Tennessee state Sen. Jim Tracy. Tennessee said it has enough of the drug for a November execution and expects to be able to carry out another in December. 
Associated Press 

COLUMBUS, Ohio — Some executions in the U.S. have been put on hold because of a shortage of one of the drugs used in lethal injections from coast to coast. 
Several of the 35 states that rely on lethal injection are either scrambling to find sodi­um thiopental — an anesthetic that renders the condemned inmate unconscious — or con­sidering using another drug. But both routes are strewn with legal or ethical road­blocks. 
The shortage delayed an Oklahoma execution last month and led Kentucky’s gov­ernor to postpone the signing of death warrants for two inmates. Arizona is trying to get its hands on the drug in time for its next execution, in late October. California, with an inmate set to die on Wednesday, said the shortage will force it to stop executions after Sept. 30. 
The sole U.S. manufacturer, Hospira Inc. of Lake Forest, Ill., has blamed the shortage on unspecified problems with its raw-material suppliers and 
Tuesday, September 28, 2010 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 5 

Midwest flooding stabilizes 

Associated Press 
PORTAGE, Wis.— Flood waters from the burgeoning Wisconsin River turned a rural neighbor­hood into a virtual island Monday, cutting off dozens of homes from the outside world. 
The river was seeping through and surging around a levee pro­tecting the Blackhawk Park neighborhood in the town of Caledonia just southeast of Portage. The only road in was covered by nearly a foot of rust-colored water. 
Greg Matthews, spokesman for the Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources, said the levee was in “bad shape” Monday night but that officials were optimistic conditions would improve before there was a complete failure. 
A few homes in the neighbor­hood’s low-lying areas were sur­rounded by water, but most of the houses stood on high ground and remained untouched Monday afternoon. 
Emergency workers asked peo­ple to leave on Sunday as the river began to rise after last week’s heavy rains overwhelmed rivers. Some 300 people live in the neighborhood, and Columbia County Emergency Management director Pat Beghin said about 25 homes remained occupied. 
Beghin said the worst-case sce­nario was water could wash away the access road, stranding those residents for up to a week. 
A century-old earthen dike, part of a 14-mile berm, separates Portage and the neighborhood from the river. But the river rose so high and so forcefully it surged around the dike and poured into the bottom lands around the neighborhood, said Steve Miller, director of the DNS Bureau of Facilities and Lands. 
The rising water chipped away at portions of the berm system Monday afternoon. Much of the levee protects forest and farm­land, but a breach in the Blackhawk Park portion could make matters far worse for the neighborhood by potentially washing away the access road. 
DNR workers patrolled the length of the berm Monday, using sandbags to control the seepage. Matthews said the effort seemed to be working. 
Water levels in the storm-bloat­ed Big Sioux River in South Dakota were stable Monday after up to 4 inches of rain last week pushed the waterway over its banks along a 50-mile stretch from Brookings to Sioux Falls. 
About two dozen homes in Renner, the worst-hit town, were affected by the rare autumnal flood, Renner Fire Chief Mike Schmitz said. 


Officials reopen case of Ariz. deputy’s shooting 
Associated Press 

PHOENIX — Arizona officials on Monday reopened the investigation into a deputy’s explanation of how he was shot in the remote desert south of Phoenix amid speculation it was a hoax timed to enflame the debate over illegal immigration. 
The Pinal County Sheriff’s Office announced its decision Monday after two nationally known forensic pathologists raised questions about a wound the deputy suffered in a Phoenix New Times story, and then later to other media outlets. 
Pinal County Deputy Louie Puroll told investigators that he was fol­lowing a group of smugglers carry­ing bales of marijuana April 30 when he was ambushed by men firing AK-47 rifles. In what Puroll described as a running gunbattle, he was grazed by a bullet in the back. 
The pathologists, Dr. Michael Baden of New York and Dr. Werner Spitz of suburban Detroit, exam­ined photos of the wound released by the sheriff’s office. They told The Associated Press on Friday that they concluded the bullet was fired from inches away, not from at least 25 yards away as Puroll said. 
The sheriff’s office soon after released a statement saying it stood behind the official investiga­tion, and that physical evidence supports the deputy’s account. 
But the office reopened the case Monday, saying it wants to main­tain transparency. 
Pinal County Sheriff Paul Babeu told The Associated Press that the shirt Puroll was wearing the day of the shooting is being sent to the state Department of Public Safety for testing. The department will check for gunshot residue, char­ring, burning or any other evi­dence that it was a close-range shot. 
“Clearly we don’t have anything to hide,” Babeu said. “If you think, ‘Oh my God, this is the smoking gun,’ we’re going to send it to an outside agency and they’re going to tell us.” 
Babeu said the shirt wasn’t sent to DPS originally because his office never had any indication that Puroll wasn’t telling the truth, and all the evidence backed up his story. 
He said Puroll thanked him for reopening the case so he can be vindicated and get back to his nor­mal life. 
Puroll is back to performing his normal duties, but Babeu said he’s been “dragged through the gaunt­let of public scrutiny.” 
On Friday, the sheriff’s office said Friday there were no burn marks on Puroll’s shirt and that his wound had no stippling, which is caused from burnt gunpowder coming from the barrel of a gun fired at close range. 
But Baden said Puroll’s shirt did appear to have powder burns. 
The sheriff’s office said Monday it consulted with Dr. Phil Keen, for­mer chief medical examiner for Maricopa County, about the other pathologists’ opinions. He said Keen disagreed but that he would need the results of tests on the shirt to confirm his opinion. 
Puroll’s shooting fueled an already blazing debate in Arizona and the nation about the dangers of immigrant and drug smugglers in southern Arizona. It came just days after Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer signed a sweeping law giv­ing law enforcers powers to ques­tion suspected illegal immigrants and arrest them. The major parts of that law have been put on hold by a federal judge on constitutional grounds. 


Tenn. ash spill blamed on poor management 
Associated Press 

CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. — Poor coal ash control practices and the Tennessee Valley Authority management culture led to the huge December 2008 spill on the Emory River in East Tennessee, the utility’s inspector general said in a report released Monday. 
The report on the inspector general’s website describes the spill of sludge laden with seleni­um, mercury and arsenic as “one of the largest environmen­tal disasters in U.S. history.” 
TVA, the nation’s largest pub­lic utility, responded in the report, saying the description as one of the largest disasters is “not supportable.” Inspector General Richard Moore refused to change it. 
“No analysis of TVA manage­ment challenges would be com­plete without recognizing that the Kingston Fossil Plant coal ash spill surfaced cultural prob­lems within TVA that likely extend beyond the management of coal ash,” the report said. 
TVA’s challenge is to change the way its employees view environmental compliance issues, the inspector general concluded. 
“Culture is a reflection of a corporate mindset and part of the change that is occurring at TVA is a review of compliance processes along with education of TVA employees to alter the corporate mindset,” the report concluded. 
TVA spokeswoman Barbara Martocci said in a statement that the utility “believes there is always room for improvement in the work that we do.” 
It said the report helps clarify where changes can be made. 
“TVA appreciates their work and will use their findings to improve our performance,” the statement said. 
The utility company is fighting damage lawsuits and has released reports that say there is no harm to public health from the 5.4 million cubic yard spill. TVA has been slapped with penalties totaling $11.5 million for the spill, partly to pay for oversight of the cleanup. Environmental groups have said they want TVA to be prosecuted. 
The inspector general said the ash contains elements “that can be toxic under certain circum­stances.” 
“Although industry has claimed that fly ash is neither toxic nor poisonous, this is dis­puted,” the report says. 
Moore pointed out that the National Academy of Sciences described high levels of coal combustion contaminants as a possible reason for long-term human health and ecological concerns. 
page 6 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, September 28, 2010 
Tomlin 
continued from page 1 
Tomlin, a native of Detroit, used both her history in show business and her own person­al life as inspiration for her 90-minute show. 
Tomlin originally went to 
school to study medi ­cine, but said she was drawn into her theater classes and the idea of putting on a show, she said in an interview with The Observer last week. 
“In the past 
four years, Saint Mary’s the­atre students have worked with the likes of actress Camryn Manheim, Broadway director Hal Prince, Glenn Close and now Lily Tomlin as Margaret Hill Endowed Visiting Artists,” Mark Abram-Copenhaver, professor of theatre, said in a press release. “So our fourth-year theatre students will leave here having worked with high-profile masters of the theatre.” 

Hill, an alumna of Saint Mary’s, is now a Broadway producer and continues to provide Saint Mary’s with this opportunity. 
“That ’s the power of an endowment, and we are so 
“We are thrilled that she [Tomlin] will work with our theatre students on the process of creating and developing a character.” 
Mark Abram-Copenhaver Theatre professor 
grateful to Peggy Hill for her gift,” Abram-Copenhaver said. 
Tomlin also spent part of the day Monday in class with theater students. 
“Lily Tomlin is a rare talent who makes it look effortless to move from comedy to drama and back again,” Abram -
Copenhaver said in the release. “We are thrilled that she will work with our the­atre students on the process of creating and developing a character.” 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu and Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 



New center encourages undergraduate research 
Special to The Observer 
“Notre Dame is strong in undergraduate teaching, but the next frontier is students working with professors to do research,” said Daniel Lindley, associate professor of political science and director of the University of Notre Dame’s new Center for Undergraduate Scholarly Engagement (CUSE). 
“Research is development of the mind — the development of students who will be of service to the University and to the world,” he said. 
The center, which opened on the second floor of Notre Dame’s Geddes Hall late last year, will offer ideas, advice and central­ization of information for under­graduates interested in doing research, in addition to partner­ing with faculty to create research opportunities. 
“We are a University-wide center whose mission is to increase intellectual vibrancy on campus, increase the breadth and depth of undergraduate research and help students apply for and win fellowships,” Lindley said. “We thank our generous benefactors who helped catalyze CUSE into exis­tence.” 
The University is part of a nationwide trend in encourag­ing students to engage in research at earlier stages in their education, said Lindley. Research can be about gaining an appreciation for and trans­mitting knowledge about litera­ture, understanding the bios­phere or making discoveries that will improve human life, whether through medicine or art, he added. 
“Our mission is to help all stu­dents, not just the best and brightest, be the best they can be — to push them to new lev­els, and to try new things,” Lindley said. 
Physics Professor Philippe Collon, CUSE associate director for scholarly engagement, launched the Sorin Scholars program, which identifies and mentors some of the University’s best and brightest students each year. 

“Students still don’t realize they can make a difference in their field, whether science or arts and letters,” he said. 
Collon will work with the Office of Admissions and Notre Dame’s First Year of Studies Program to identify motivated students; he will also help match students with faculty based on research interests. 
Cecilia Lucero, assistant direc­tor for undergraduate research, “has the best view in the University of where student research funding is available,” said Lindley. She also has devel­oped a common application that allows students to apply to sev­eral centers and funding sources with one form. Lucero is able to directly fund or supple­ment funds for student research projects. She also helps dissemi­nate the results of student research with an annual University-wide Undergraduate Scholars Conference. 
If students are interested in research but don’t know where to start, CUSE is the place to begin, Lucero said. 
“We try to show that there’s not a division between teaching and research,” she added. “Research is part of a great edu­cation.” 
Roberta Jordan, assistant director for fellowships, helps students apply for, and win, nationally competitive fellow­ships such as the Rhodes, Marshall, Mitchell, Fulbright, Gates, Churchill, and Truman – just a few of the over 100 fel­lowships for which Notre Dame students may apply. “Fellowships allow students to embark on their own research projects, or continue their edu­cation at the graduate level,” she noted. “From art history to economic development or bio­engineering, Notre Dame stu­dents can and should be at the leading edge in their chosen field, and a fellowship can help get them there.” 


Americans overlook farming 
Associated Press 

VISALIA, Calif. — It’s a ques­tion rekindled by the reces­sion: Are immigrants taking jobs away from American citi­zens? In the heart of the nation’s biggest farming state, the answer is a resounding no. 
Government data analyzed by The Associated Press show most Americans simply don’t apply to harvest fruits and vegetables. And the few Americans who do usually don’t stay in the fields. 
“It’s just not something that most Americans are going to pack up their bags and move here to do,” said farmer Steve Fortin, who pays $10.25 an hour to foreign workers to trim strawberry plants at his nursery near the Nevada bor­der. 
The AP analysis showed that, from January to June, California farmers posted ads for 1,160 farmworker posi­tions open to U.S. citizens and legal residents. But only 233 people in those categories applied after learning of the jobs through unemployment offices in California, Texas, Nevada and Arizona. 
One grower brought on 36. No one else hired any. 
“It surprises me, too, but we do put the information out there for the public,” said Lucy Ruelas, who manages the California Employment Development Department’s agricultural services unit. “If an applicant sees the reality of the job, they might change their mind.” 
Sometimes, U.S. workers also will turn down the jobs because they don’t want their unemployment insurance claims to be affected, or because farm labor positions do not begin for several months, and applicants prefer to be hired immediately, Ruelas said. 
Fortin spent $3,000 this year to make sure that domestic workers have first dibs on his jobs in the sparsely populated stretch of the state, advertising in newspapers and on an elec­tronic job registry. 
But he did not get any tak­ers, even though he followed the requirements of a little-known, little-used program to bring in foreign farmworkers the legal way — by applying for guest worker visas. 
The California figures repre­sent only a small part of the national effort to recruit domestic workers under the H­2A Guest Worker Program, but they provide a snapshot of how hard it is to to get growers to use the program — and to attract Americans to farm labor, even in the San Joaquin Valley, where the average unemployment rate is 15.8 percent. 
The majority of farmers rely on illegal labor to harvest their crops, but they can also use the little-known H-2A visa to hire guest workers, as long as they request the workers months in advance of the har­vest season and can show that no Americans want the job. 
Of the estimated 40,900 full-time farmers and ranchers in California, just 34, including Fortin, petitioned to bring in foreign farmworkers on the visas, according to government data for the first eight months of the year. 
The Labor Department did not respond to a request for comment about the findings, and state officials did not immediately provide figures showing the number of domes­tic workers hired in July and August. 
More than half of farmwork­ers in the United States are illegal immigrants, the Labor Department says. Proponents of tougher immigration laws — as well as the United Farm Workers of America — say farmers are used to a cheap, largely undocumented work force, and if growers raised wages and improved working conditions, the jobs would attract Americans. 
So far, an effort by the UFW to get Americans to take farm jobs has been more effective in attracting applicants than the official channels. 
The UFW in June launched the “Take Our Jobs Campaign,” inviting people to go online and apply. About 8,600 people filled out an application form, but only seven have been placed in farm jobs, UFW President Arturo Rodriguez said. 
Some U.S. workers referred for jobs at Fortin’s nursery couldn’t do the grueling work. 
“A few years ago when domestic workers were referred here, we saw absen­tee problems, and we had peo­ple asking for time off after they had just started,” he said. “Some were actually planting the plants upside down.” 
Asked what the agency could do to get more U.S. workers into farm jobs, California Employment Development Department spokeswoman Patti Roberts suggested the UFW could refer applicants to the state or employers, and the state could publicize the open­ings through public service announcements. 

Tuesday, September 28, 2010 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 7 

Obamapushesschoolreform 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Barely into the new school year, President Barack Obama issued a tough-love message to students and teachers on Monday: Their year in the classroom should be longer, and poorly performing teachers should get out. 
American students are falling behind some of their foreign counterparts, especially in math and science, and that’s got to change, Obama said. Seeking to revive a sense of urgency that education reform may have lost amid the recession’s focus on the economy, Obama declared that the future of the country is at stake. 
“Whether jobs are created here, high-end jobs that support families and support the future of the American people, is going to depend on whether or not we can do something about these schools,” the president said in an interview on NBC’s “Today” show. 
U.S. schools through high school offer an average of 180 instruction days per year, accord­ing to the Education Commission of the States, compared to an average of 197 days for lower grades and 196 days for upper grades in countries with the best student achievement levels, including Japan, South Korea, Germany and New Zealand. 
“That month makes a differ­ence,” the president said. “It means that kids are losing a lot of what they learn during the school year during the summer. It’s especially severe for poorer kids who may not see as many books in the house during the summers, aren’t getting as many education­al opportunities.” 
Obama said teachers and their profession should be more highly honored -as in China and some other countries, he said — and he said he wanted to work with the teachers’ unions. But he also said that unions should not defend a status quo in which one-third of children are dropping out. He challenged them not to be resist­ant to change. 
And the president endorsed the firing of teachers who, once given the chance and the help to improve, are still falling short. 
“We have got to identify teach­ers who are doing well. Teachers who are not doing well, we have got to give them the support and the training to do well. And if some teachers aren’t doing a good job, they’ve got to go,” Obama said. 
They’re goals the president has articulated in the past, but his ability to see them realized is lim­ited. States set the minimum length of school years, and although there’s experimentation in some places, there’s not been wholesale change since Obama issued the same challenge for more classroom time at the start of the past school year. 
One issue is money, and although the president said that lengthening school years would be “money well spent,” that does­n’t mean cash-strapped states and districts can afford it. 
“It comes down to the old buga­boo, resources. It costs money to keep kids in school,” said Mayor Scott Smith of Mesa, Ariz. “Everyone believes we can achieve greater things if we have a longer school year. The ques­tion is how do you pay for it.” 
One model is Massachusetts, where the state issues grants to districts that set out clear plans on how they would use the money to constructively lengthen instructional class time, said Kathy Christie, chief of staff at the Education Commission of the States. Obama’s Education Department already is using com­petitions among states for cur­riculum grant money through its “Race to the Top” initiative. 

“The federal carrots of addi­tional money would help more states do it or schools do it in states where they don’t have a state grant process,” Christie said. 
But the federal budget is hard-up, too. And while many educa­tors believe students would bene­fit from more quality learning time, the idea is not universally popular. 
In Kansas, sporadic efforts by local districts to extend the school year at even a few schools have been met by parental resistance, said state education commission­er Diane DeBacker. 
“It’s been tried,” she said, describing one instance of a Topeka-area elementary school that scrapped year-round school­ing after just one year. “The com­munity was just not ready for kids to be in school all summer long. Kids wanted to go swimming. Their families wanted to go on vacation.” 
Teachers’ unions say they’re open to the discussion of longer classroom time, but they also say that pay needs to be part of the conversation. As for Obama’s call for ousting underperforming teachers, National Education Association President Dennis Van Roekel said unions weren’t the main stumbling block there, as many education reformers assert. 
“No one wants an incompetent teacher in the classroom,” Van Roekel said. “It’s in the hiring, and in those first three to five years no teacher has the right to due process.” 
Separately Monday, Obama announced a goal of recruiting 10,000 teachers over the next two years in the fields of science, technology, engineering and math. 

Spill panel: Federal officials botch response 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — The Obama administration’s repeated low estimates of the huge BP oil spill undermined public confidence in the gov­ernment’s entire cleanup effort, leaders of a White House-appointed commission declared at an investigatory hearing Monday. One likened the mistakes to Custer’s disas­trous decisions at Little Big Horn. 
Federal officials botched the government’s response, a local official and government and university scientists con­tended as the commission focused on the questions of who was in charge and how much oil spewed out of the well into the Gulf of Mexico. 
Eventually, U.S. officials said the spill was about 60 times bigger than originally estimated. Instead of 42,000 gallons a day, the volume of leaking oil was closer to 2.4 million gallons a day. 
“It’s a lot like Custer,” said panel co -chairman Bob Graham, a former Florida senator and governor, refer­ring to the battle that killed George Armstrong Custer and wiped out most of the Army’s 7th Calvary in 1876. “He underestimated the number of Indians on the other side of the hill and paid the ultimate price.” 
And who was in charge? Billy Nungesser, president of Plaquemines Parish, one of the coastal areas most affect­ed by the spill, referred to another famous leader, this one fictional. 
“It became a joke,” he told the commission. “The Houma command was the Wizard of Oz, some guy behind the cur­tain.” 
Mistakes in the information that was being given out sapped confidence in the gov­ernment on the issue, Graham and co -chairman William Reilly said at a news confer­ence. Reilly described “repeated wrong numbers” on the amount of oil that was spilling. 
Retired Adm. Thad Allen, in charge of the government’s response, told commissioners that the low estimates didn’t hamper government efforts to deal with the spill. But Reilly, former chief of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, said he had trouble believing that, that it contra­dicted common sense. 
A senior government scien­tist, Bill Lehr of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, said once NOAA realized the spill was much larger than estimated, things changed tremendously. Vacations were canceled, retirees were called in and oil response staff was “given a blank check,” he said. 
Florida State University’s Ian MacDonald said it took eight attempts by the govern­ment to arrive at the correct estimate. He said BP’s esti­mate of 210,000 gallons a day was about 100 times less than federal guidelines said it should have been based on the thickness and color of the oil. 


Hearing begins in plot to murder Afghans 
Associated Press 

JOINT BASE LEWIS-MCCHORD, Wash. — A soldier’s videotaped statements describing how he and his colleagues randomly killed three Afghan civilians came under scrutiny Monday at a hearing into one of the most serious war-crimes cases from the war in Afghanistan. 
Cpl. Jeremy Morlock of Wasilla, Alaska, is among five Stryker sol­diers charged with premeditated murder and conspiracy to commit premeditated murder. In inter­views with Army investigators, he described a plot led by Staff Sgt. Calvin Gibbs to randomly kill civil­ians for sport while on patrol in Kandahar Province. 
Prosecutors have also alleged that members of the platoon muti­lated Afghan corpses and even collected fingers and other body parts, and that some posed for photos with Afghan corpses. Morlock talked about how they threw a grenade at a civilian to “wax him.” 
Morlock’s attorneys are seeking to suppress the statements, saying they were made under the influ­ence of muscle relaxants, sleeping pills and anti-nausea medicine prescribed for repeat concussions suffered during war. Morlock was being evacuated from Afghanistan for apparent traumatic brain injury when he was questioned in May. 
They also blasted Army doctors and U.S. policy in a news confer­ence, saying they didn’t under­stand how a cornucopia of drugs could possibly render a brain-damaged soldier battle-ready. Morlock sustained his first concus­sion from a roadside bomb last November, and that’s when the first drugs were prescribed, they said. 
“This lad was all juiced up and it was by Army doctors,” said attor­ney Geoffrey Nathan. “Why didn’t they just recall him?” 
Army Special Agent Anderson D. Wagner testified that Morlock was articulate during the interviews and that his account was corrobo­rated by others in the unit. The hearing will determine whether the case proceeds to a court mar­tial; Morlock and the others could face the death penalty if convicted. 
“He made good eye contact. He was able to recount events that happened several months ago,” Wagner said by audio feed from Kandahar. 
Prosecutors listed 18 witnesses for Monday’s hearing. Fourteen of them asserted their right to remain silent, including other defendants and 1st Lt. Roman G. Ligsay, who has been removed as leader of the platoon but is not charged. 
The Observer 


Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesday, September 28, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Black hole 
I am thoroughly convinced that I live in a black hole. Notre Dame’s bubble is successfully disconnect­ing me from the world one “Message Send Failure” at a time. 
However pathetic, I am Marissa Frobes becoming more 
Assistant 
and more frus-

Scene Editor 
trated each day with my inabili­ty to transcend two bars on my iPhone almost anywhere on cam­pus. I know I am not alone in this struggle; students using AT&T or Verizon as their provider are most likely grappling with service issues, too. 
According to a news article in The Observer a few weeks ago, the problem is a consequence of “increased capacity” on campus, and both providers are working toward improving reception at Notre Dame. But I need to see some tangible results ASAP — I need to see bars, because my fami­ly life, social life and mental sta­bility are all at a tipping point. 
Three weeks ago, I celebrated my 20th birthday. I received random text messages throughout the day, and reveled in the awkward “Happy Birthday, miss you!”s I got from near strangers on Facebook, but midnight was imminent and I had yet to hear from either of my parents or my older sister. 
Around 10 a.m. the following day, I walked out of my dorm to head to class and received several voicemails in a row, all stemming from random points the previous evening. The first few were cus­tomary — my parents harmonizing to sing “Happy Birthday” and my sister wishing me a great day — but the rest expressed worry and annoyance thanks to AT&T. “Where are you? You can’t just ignore us because it’s your birth­day!” 
My family was just as peeved at my lack of response as I was dis­heartened by them apparently for­getting my birthday. We are cur­rently still working through this miscommunication. 
A similar situation happened with a friend on campus. We had planned to meet at main circle some time between 9:45 and 10 
p.m. to catch a movie. I texted her around 9:30 to verify plans, and according to my phone, it sent. Ten after ten and I thought I was stood up when I hear a pounding on my door — she ran from main circle to Walsh to grab me because she had been calling incessantly for twenty minutes. 
This has happened to me innu­merable times this year, and it is making me insane. Where do I go from here? Here are my options: learn to live without cellular serv­ice (no way), install “femto cells” in my dorm room as recommended by the aforementioned Observer article (what’s a femto?) or hope and pray that AT&T will get it together and bring me back in touch with my social network (impatiently waiting.) 
In the meantime, you can proba­bly find me leaning outside of my first floor window of Walsh, hand waving psychotically, trying to force text messages to escape the black hole of reception on Notre Dame’s campus. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Marissa Frobes at mfrobes@nd.edu 
But how can we make sense of teleolo­gy in this late age of the world — now, after the genius of Machiavelli, Hobbes, and Darwin, after the courage of Marx, Nietzsche, Freud and Foucault? For in their relentless 
Dan Sportiello 
suspicion of the system of the 
Bound 
world as they 
Variables 

received it — a suspicion so intense as to border on the neurotic — there is indeed a genius, a courage: to change the system of the world — to rev­olutionize our understanding of the divine order, as did Spinoza, Kant and Hegel — seems the highest expression of our humanity. But to overthrow the very idea of a system — to deny that there is any order to be found, as did Marx, Nietzsche, and Freud, beyond the lies that we are willing to tell ourselves — seems something more than human — or would, had these thinkers not shattered the transcendent. 
Even to call their relentless suspicion neurotic is no defense, since this catego­ry is itself born of the school of suspicion 
— and its members would be the first to apply it to themselves: in the end, they know that they too are human, all too human. We are all of us neurotic — but only some have the genius and the courage to channel this neurosis into honesty. 
But this honesty, in the end, has proven more destructive by far than the divine ordering that it did so much to over­throw: before, when the Cosmos or God or Reason seemed to order things—that is, when man was mastered by others — Marx, Nietzsche and Freud proclaimed that these were lies, damned lies, perpe­trated by tyrants, priests and man’s own self-deception. In response, he liberated himself — and, over the course of a cen­tury gone mad, tore his world apart. For, set free, man has no master, not even 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“God creates men, but they chooseeach other.” 
Niccolo Machiavelli Italian philosopher 

Faith 
himself: in philosophizing with hammers, these brave ones had smashed every idol 
— and thus left nothing at all upon which to stand. 
It was not obvious, when the West awoke more than two millennia ago, that things would come to this: it is only clear in hindsight that the full implications of teleology lead to its rejection — and that the replacements thereof, both conse­quentialist and deontological, rely upon systematic deception — of oneself and others — for their success. In a certain sense, the Aristotelian tradition and the Enlightenment tradition that replaced it amounted to much the same thing: “the important question,” writes Williams, “is whether or not a given writer or philoso­pher believes that, beyond some things that human beings have themselves shaped, there is anything at all that is intrinsically shaped to human interests, in particular to human beings’ ethical interests. In the light of that question and the distinctions it invites, Plato, Aristotle, Kant, Hegel are all on the same side, all believing in one way or another that the universe or history or the structure of human reason can, when properly understood, yield a pattern that makes sense of human life and human aspira­tions.” 
But when first hope in God and then hope in man are lost — as they were, first in the Scientific Revolution and Reformation and then in collapse of the Enlightenment — not even despair remains: there is only chaos — man as a powerless, intermittently gleeful witness to his own madness as he births the twentieth century. For he now sees his world as “only partially intelligible to human agency and in itself … not neces­sarily well adjusted to ethical aspira­tions,” writes Williams. For shattered is the system of the world — never better, perhaps, than a dim hope — of “all those who have thought that somehow or other, in this life or the next, morally if not materially, as individuals or as a his­torical collective, we shall be safe; or, if not safe, at least reassured that at some level of the world’s constitution there is something to be discovered that makes ultimate sense of our concerns.” 

Where, then, do we now stand — when neither teleology nor enlightenment nor suspicion remains? “Wandering between two worlds,” writes Arnold, “one dead, the other powerless to be born,” it seems that our heroes — those courageous, if neurotic, masters of suspicion — have forsaken us — just as did the idols that they smashed, whether teleological, con­sequentialist or deontological. It is not clear where to go from here: to see the world as once again a system full of divine purpose, or ourselves as suffi­ciently divine to live with one another in truth and justice, or even the all too human task of suspicion as exhilarating rather than maddening — well, all of these seem now beyond us; either we are not the heroes that our forebears were, or they were not the heroes that we took them to be. 
To birth a new world — one powerless to be born on its own — may require, in the end, an act of faith — a deliberate return to where we began, before our illusions were shattered — and those shatterings were themselves revealed as yet more illusion. Whether this is possi­ble without self-deception — whether, in effect, man can live without lies — is a question that keeps me up at night. 
I wish that there was more to say. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his third year in the philosophy Ph.D. program. Listen to his radio show on Thursdays at 
2:00 p.m. on WVFI. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“Risk! Risk anything! Care no morefor the opinions of others, for those voices. Do the hardest thing onearth for you. Act for yourself. Face the truth.” 
Katherine Mansfield New Zealand author 


The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Tuesday, September 28, 2010 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Traditions of failure 
I understand the complaints about the Celtic Chant a few weeks back. After all, it is a moment of student silence and hand motions (then again most students don’t make any sound until the opposing team breaks the huddle anyway), but I do understand it is a very high volume number which when blasted towards the huddle of the opposing team can result in inaudible play calling. 
My main concern with it is its connection with failure. For those who do not know, the song was introduced during the first year of one Bob Davie. Since the song’s introduction one only needs to look at the past 13 years to see what the song has been attached to. So I say, find traditions of the DaviHamIes era and rid the game of them. 
Tim Staub 
junior Dillon Hall Sept. 27 


Rallies 
My Notre Dame brothers and sisters, as you may or may not be aware, on Oct. 30, Comedy Central’s Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert will be holding competing political rallies on the National Mall in Washington, D.C. Seeing as the vast majority of Stewart and Colbert’s audi­ence are college students (and according to my rough estimates, most of the students on our campus are fans of one, if not both comedians), we should have a Notre Dame bus trip to Washington to show our support at these rallies. 
In these most turbulent times of our nation’s political history, I believe it is of the utmost importance that we, the voice of tomorrow, take a step toward deescalating the political climate’s inevitable arrival at the boiling point. By the time you are reading this, I will have con­tacted the Student Activities Office formally with a request to arrange a bus trip be made. If any of you share my vision, please echo my sentiment by contacting SAO via e-mail to let our wishes be known. An event like this is a once-in-a-generation opportunity — don’t pass it up. 
Philip Zeiss 
sophomore Siegfried Hall Sept. 26 


State of the game 
Students, as a member of the Class of 1975, I am tired of seeing our fine tradition of producing competitive foot­ball teams diminished to being the “joke of the day” on national TV programs for years now. The college sport is a minor league for the NFL, do not kid yourselves. We need the horses, and they can too graduate. Just look at all the graduates Lou Holtz produced. The difference is we now are not attracting blue chip players who can compete at the top levels as in the past. 
Lobby for change to bring us back now! 
George Miller 
alumnus 
Class of 1975 
Sept. 27 




Pro-progressive 
It is no surprise that politics and current events are common discussions in everyday American life. You might walk down your dorm hall and hear fellow students discussing the legality or immorality of abortion or walk past a couple of people in the Bookstore talk­ing about the wars in Iraq or Afghanistan. 
It is interesting to find that most people also tend to put political labels on themselves. You might hear someone say, “I’m a Democrat,” and another person say, “I’m a conservative.” One political label in particular is worth dis­cussing. Many people might find themselves saying, “I’m a progressive.” Depending on who you are talking to, some people find this pleas­ing and others offensive. In mainstream America, progressives have been branded as people who have ultra-liberal and/or socialist ideals. However, I believe this is not what a true progressive is. If you were to take a minute and look up the word progressive in the dictionary, you would find that it simply means, “moving forward; advancing.” 
As a member of College Democrats here at Notre Dame, I am not afraid to admit that I label myself to be a moderate Democrat. Yet, if someone were to ask me if I consider myself to be a progressive, I would not hesitate to say, “Absolutely!” I am a progressive, not because of political views, but because I am interested in seeing America “move forward and advance.” 
Each day, Americans are given constant reminders of the bad shape their country is in and has been in for the last couple of years. Although we may have politically different ideas in how to solve our pressing dilemmas, I think we can all agree that the ultimate goal is to make this nation better for us and for our posterity. So, for those of you who are reading this who want to see America “move forward and advance,” I urge you to ignore the pre­established labels, call yourselves progres­sives, and join other progressives in wearing blue on Sept. 28. 
Trenton Spoolstra 
member 
College Democrats 
Sept. 23 

Be the best 
Dear Student Section, 

I was personally very disappointed in the mass exodus of students that occurred throughout the fourth quarter. I know that this was a disappoint­ing loss; I understand, I was there too. I also know that the start to the season has been a rough one and understand the frustration. But this is when the team needs us the most. How can we expect the team to perform for us when we are so quick to dismiss and give up on them? I know that if I was a player and saw the alumni sections filing out it would sting a bit, but then to look over and see the students, my classmates and friends, doing the same — it would hurt a lot more. 
Perhaps that is not enough to keep you in your seats when things get tough, so maybe this will. At almost every home game, we have recruits in the student section. Some that have visited earlier have given verbal commits because they love how awesome and rowdy the student section is. They love how crazy we get when things are going good and how loud we get on defense when things aren’t. Even if you have lost hope (which you shouldn’t yet) then think to the future and keep going wild for those four-and five-star prospects sitting amongst you and help them make the right choice — the choice to be a member of a future BCS Champion Fighting Irish football team. 
So the next time you’re at a tough game and considering bolting out early, just know that you are more than just one person, more than just one fan, more than just one student — you are a member of the best student section in the country, and it’s just the time to stay strong and keep on cheering. 
Go Irish! Beat Eagles! 
Michael Hannigan 
junior Alumni Hall Sept. 26 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The Observer 




Scene
page 10 Tuesday, September 28, 2010 
George Winston 

This man is the grand ole granddaddy of new age classical. His “rural folk piano” burst onto the scene with the 1980 album “Autumn,” chang­ing the face of new classical music and placing Windham Hill at the forefront of the genre. There is no one that sounds quite like Winston, and his seemingly simplistic arpeggios can change on a dime to become suddenly intricate and exciting. Winston is not ashamed to revel in the glory of a minimalistic piano lullaby, and equally unafraid to bust a move on the keys in a jazz progression lifted directly from Vince Guaraldi. One spin through any album he’s released will leave you a convert. 
Tracks to Tap: “Colors/Dance,” “Dubuque,” “Carol of the Bells” 

The situation: Music hunters seek, read, blog and cull music from radio, print and most often, the interwebs. Music gatherers collect mix CD’s, free digital downloads and whatever their friends happen to be listening to. If you are a gatherer, this space is for you. If you are a hunter, e-mail me your latest find, and I promise you’ll find it written up here. 
(Seriously. E-mail. Even if you’re not a stu­dent.)
Stephanie DePrez 


There is an entire genre of sophisticated instrumental music that straddles the gap Scene W riter between Mozart, Enya and Yanni. Founded in 
the ‘70s, the album label Windham Hill has been subtly pushing “new age acoustic,” or “new classical.” Windham Hill artists can be found on late night classical stations and stocked next to the incense in your neighborhood new age store. The label specializes in acoustic and folk. It is often simple, always allur­ing and will calm you down no matter how horrible your orgo looks. 
Michael Hedges 
The guitar was reborn the day this man picked one up. There is really no genre in which to place Hedges, other than to say he did things to the guitar that no one had ever imagined, and left thousands awestruck from his mind-blowing techniques in the wake of his death in a car acci­dent in 1997. Two phrases that attempt to place Hedges are “heavy mental” and “new edge.” His music is exploratory yet calming. He strums the guitar while plucking it, often making it sounds like there are two or more guitars at work. The only way to appreciate his playing is to YouTube it. 
Tracks to Tap: “Ariel Boundaries,” “Java Man” 
Montreux 

This gathering of individual Windham Hill artists led to one of the most boundary-pushing jazz groups in the last 50 years. They balance violin, piano, mandolin, guitar, bass and synthesizer into a sound that is sometimes new age, sometimes blues. Since each artist is so accom­plished in his or her own field, the combination of Darol Anger, Barbara Higbie, Mike Marshall and Michael Manring creates music that is inter­esting enough to keep your mind awake but cohesive to the point that it won’t distract. If Mozart were alive, this is what his kids would be lis­tening to. 
Tracks to Tap: “Skywriting,” “To Be,” “Dolphins” 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 

By KEVIN NOONAN Scene Writer  ent tones and lyrics of each individual song. The band’s experiment in “Hands  such a refreshing thing to working with someone who really felt we still had something to prove,” Levine said  “Give a Little More,” conceived in the same vein as previous hits such as “This Love” and “Wake Up Call,” can  
Not quite rock, a little more than  All Over” to try and shift their sound is a strategy it had tried on its second  in an interview with MTV. But the band still knows its sound.  expect similar results in the coming weeks.  
pop and at times drifting towards funk, Maroon 5 has refused to be pinned into a single genre since its inception. And at the same time, one of the consistent criticisms against the band is that all of its songs sound the same. The group’s newest studio album, “Hands All Over,” is no differ­ent. Although lead singer Adam Levine and company try very hard to move their band more distinctively toward the rock genre, the experiment is, for the most part, unsuccessful. Both lyri­cally and musically, “Hands All Over” is quite similar to the band’s two pre­vious albums. That’s not to say the album as a whole is unsuccessful. The hooks are catchy without sounding forced, the music is smoothly produced and the lyrics are expressive. Levine’s alterna­tions in delivery between bursting swagger and shaky self-consciousness are skillful and fit well with the differ- album, “It Won’t Be Soon Before Long.” On its debut studio album, “Songs About Jane,” the band worked with Matt Wallace, who has produced albums for Train, Third Eye Blind and O.A.R. For its second album, the band shook things up and turned to Mike Elizondo as producer, who is best known for his work with artists such as Eminen, Jay-Z, Dr. Dre and 50 Cent. With the lack of success in creating a new sound on that album, the band once again turned to a producer with a radically different skill set than it had seen before: Robert “Mutt” Lange. His producer credits include work with AC/DC and Def Leppard. While the album clearly shows Lange to be a skilled producer in terms of the overall delivery of the music, “Hands All Over” contains no traces of AC/DC. “That’s all [Lange] is, is big. He goes for huge and international and it was  “Hands All Over” Maroon 5 Label: A&M/ Octone Best Tracks: “Misery,” “Out of Goodbyes,” “Stutter” “It sounds like … Maroon 5. What you’re thinking of is what it is,” Levine said in the interview. As with previous albums, “Hands All Over” is laden with songs that are destined for serious radio time. The first single from the album, “Misery,” reached 17 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart. The album’s second single,  The band will most likely see its greatest chart success and teenage girl approval from a single that has yet to be released, the country cross­over with Lady Antebellum entitled “Out of Goodbyes.” Of all the songs on the album, this one most successfully brings a new feel to the band. It main­tains the broken love tone so common to Maroon 5’s repertoire, but by col­laborating with country music great Lady Antebellum, the band delivers a unique, surefire hit. Maroon 5 once again proves to be consistently above average, and does so without providing the music world any shocking revelations. They contin­ue to be Backstreet Boys for grown­ups. Fans of previous albums will be fans of “Hands All Over,” but Maroon 5 won’t be reaching very many new audiences. Contact Kevin Noonan at knoonan2@nd.edu  

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 


Scene
Tuesday, September 28, 2010 page 11 
By JULIA STEINER 
Scene Writer 

Imagine a field lit by a 10 a.m. sun, a scattering of trees swaying and playing in the wind and a mocking­bird calling out to greet the true blue sky. Now, put music to it. 
The sounds and spirit of Frontier Ruckus, an alt-folk quartet from the Detroit area, invite their listeners into a sacred place of rustic contemplation and explo­ration. 
Students are lucky enough to have the opportunity to see this band in the flesh Friday at Subkirke, a church-turned-music-hall in South Bend. 
Matthew Milia, the lead singer and songwriter in the band, spoke with The Observer. 
How did the band get started? 
It started with Dave Jones and I. Really, we were just kids having fun, experimenting with each other (laughs) … in a way, in many musical ways. We began to explore this new world, the beauty and comfort of our creation. I began writing songs, and we really enjoyed our creative partnership. This was when we first called ourselves Frontier Ruckus, back in high school. Eventually we all went to college. I was at Michigan State, and I met more guys there, which took things to a whole new level of texture and sound and creativity. 
The first show we played as a band was the MSU Battle of the Bands. It was honestly like the hallmark of our career. I think it still stands as the most excit­ing, nerve-wracking, standout moment, and we won which was cool. Eventually we graduated, we started touring right after that and we haven’t stopped since then. 
Obviously the roots of the band and much of your music lie in Michigan. A ton of your songs mention places there or try to evoke images of rural Michigan landscapes or small towns. What about the state makes it so special and inspiring to you? 
Well, obviously Michigan is our home, so the fact that I write about it so much is less about its exterior beauty and more due to the relationships we have with our homes and the places we grew up. You know, the specific locations of my experiences just so happen to be in Michigan; it’s the main context of all of my memories and things I’ve done or felt. 
So is the whole theme of Michigan in your music is kind of a large symbol for the idea of exploring your roots? Or is Michigan really the pinnacle of every­thing, as beautiful as you make it sound in your songs? 
I mean obviously I’m biased, we’re all biased here, but I believe it is. Michigan really is gorgeous. It’s full of beautiful, beautiful lakes. Also, I’m really fascinat­ed by strip malls and small towns and the unique con­dition of Detroit and everything that’s going on there and all over the state. 
I guess if I could sum it all up in one word, one word why Michigan’s fascinating, it’d be diversity. There are all of these seemingly disparate worlds coming together and connecting. I could write about it forever, and I probably will. 
Now for a random question. If you could choose any color to describe your music, as specific as you’d like, which would you choose? 
That’s a hard one. Maybe a late 80s dark brown, maroon-y shag carpet kind of thing, like the brown of the carpet in the house where I grew up. Yeah, I think some kind of dark brown maroon-y color, like the brown leaves and the brown dirt. 
Let me ask Dave what he thinks. Dave says a red and black flannel. That’s more of a pattern and a tex­ture though, so I don’t know if that works. 

Around the Bend 
What: Frontier Ruckus Concert Where: Subkirke, 1855 N. Hickory Road,South Bend When: Friday Oct. 1 at 8:30 (Doors openat 7:30)How much: $8-$10 Learn More: www. subkirke.com 
Is there anything people should know about the Frontier Ruckus live experience? What should we expect on Friday at Subkirke? 
Well, there’s a lot of sweating involved, I do a lot of sweating. Performing live is the best. I like to lose myself in it. It’s like my one hour of the day to feel totally uninhibited and to escape into that world that Dave and I discovered as kids. I feel like people who know our songs or who’ve heard them before the show are definitely accorded an advantage because they really know the world and the music and they can enter into it with us. 
We try to make the entire experience intimate and energetic and dynamic. That’s really important to us. Also, at the end of each show we try to play a couple acoustic songs either at the front of the stage or in the crowd to make the whole thing come together and to end the night well. 
Have there been any moments on tour that really stick out or that have inspired you in a real way? 
Wow that’s hard. It’s always tough to try to pick out individual meaningful moments. Ryan Etzcorn, our drummer, says that he gets inspired by watching me play every night (laughs), but I think one of the coolest moments was when we went to this tiny town in the Netherlands called Nordbrook. We played in this 14th Century castle type thing, and the whole town came out to listen. Our voices reverberated everywhere, it was a huge, profound experience. 
Random things like that, just these little moments of accidental holiness and the whole communal interac­tion of it all — when people on tour tell us that our music impacts them for the better, that makes us happy to do what we do. 
Contact Julia Steiner at jsteine3@nd.edu 


BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 28, 2010 
CLUB SPORTS 



Both rugby teams perform well in tournamment 
Champion and challenger squads make it to tournament championship games; Doran and Henry lead challengers 
Special to the Observer  early, as their forwards were a b l e t o m a r c h d o w n t h e  c h a m p i o n s q u a d t o o k o n Minnesota in one of the clos­ th e M in neso t a k i c ker n ar -rowly missed the conversion,  Irish off for the first 10 min­utes of play, strong offensive  
T h e  N o t r e  D a m e  M e n ’s  field, winning both  scrums  e s t  f o u g h t  m a t c h e s  i n  t h e  giving the Irish a victory and  r u n s  b y  f r e s h m a n  B y r o n  
Rugby Club traveled  to  the  and lineouts with consisten­ tournament. The Irish struck  a spot in the championship.  H e n r y  a n d  s e n i o r  M i k e  
M o o s e  R u g b y  G r o u n d s  i n  cy.  e a r l y, u s i n g  s t r o n g  k i c k s  The challenger squad for  Doran opened up the scoring  
Elkhart, Ind.  to  compete in  N o t r e  D a m e  r a n  u p  a n d  f r o m  s o p h o m o r e  S e a n  t h e  I r i s h  t h e n  t o o k  o n  floodgates, leading  to  a  33­ 
the two-day Big 10 Plus One  down the field  on  the Iowa  Peterson  to  gain field posi- Michigan. Tries  were  scored  12 victory for the Irish.  
tournament this weekend.  s i d e ,  r e s u l t i n g  i n  a  f i n a l  tion. At the end of the half,  b y  m a n y  o f  t h e  f i r s t  y e a r  A l t h o u g h  t h e  s q u a d  w a s  
N o t r e  D a m e  s e n t  a  f u l l  score of 33-0.  Minnesota found themselves  N o t r e  D a m e  p l a y e r s .  T h e  winning the match midway  
t e a m  i n t o  b o t h  t h e  c h a l - T h e  c h a l l e n g e r  s i d e  down by 3 points.  I r i s h  w a l k e d  a w a y  w i t h  a  through the game, the cham­ 
lenger an d cham pion di v i-o p e n e d  u p  w i t h  s i m i l a r  The second half  was  well  40-0 victory, gaining  a  spot  pion side found themselves  
sions, and each squad made  force, plowing through the  fought, and after  a  success- i n  t h e  c h a l l e n g e r  b r a c k e t  o u t m a t c h e d i n  t h e  s c r u m s  
it to the championship game  I n d i a n a  U n i v e r s i t y  w i t h  f u l  4 5 -m e t e r  k i c k  b y  final.  wit h  a  b u r ly Indi an a s ide .  
of their division.  speed and precision. Many  Peterson, the Minnesota side  In the opening minutes of  N o t r e  D a m e  l o s t  s c r u m s ,  
T h e  s i n g l e  e l i m i n a t i o n  first-year players  saw  their  needed  a  5-point try, along  the challenger cup, the Irish  w h i c h  l e t  I n d i a n a  m a r c h  
tournament  started for the  o p e n i n g  m i n u t e s  w i t h  t h e  with the subsequent 2-point  took control with huge hits  d o w n  t h e  f i e l d  a n d  s c o r e  
Irish with  an  11  a.m.  cham­ c l u b  a s  t h e  t e a m  w o n  t h e  conversion to win the game.  b y  s e n i o r s  K e v i n  R i t t  a n d  twice late in the second half.  
pion division match against  match 24-5.  After scoring in the  corner  Sean Mitchell. Although the  The Irish lost the match 26­ 
Iowa. The Irish set the pace  L a t e r t h a t  d a y, t h e  I r i s h  of the try-zone off  a  lineout,  o p p o s i n g  s q u a d  h e l d  t h e  16.  

GOLF 



America prepares to defend Ryder Cup title 
won a tournament all year — he balls strategies. That experi-
Associated Press 

hasn’t even come close — while ment of them playing together 
NEWPORT, Wales — A young dealing with an embarrassing didn’t work so well in the 2004 woman working at the Celtic scandal that cost him his mar-matches at Oakland Hills. Manor this week did a double riage. Phil Mickelson won the Montgomerie already has told take when she saw Corey Pavin Masters, but he has been in the his players their partners, and getting into a golf cart. She did-top 10 only once in the last Pavin has given his players an n’t realize he was the U.S. cap-three months. indication of who might be play­tain. What got her attention was Even so, Pavin has reason to ing, and when. He just wasn’t what he was holding. feel his U.S. team is ready to about to reveal anything until 
“Is that the Ryder Cup tro-defend. the opening ceremony phy?” she said excitedly before Jim Furyk won the Tour Thursday. holding up her credential to Championship on Sunday, mak-“I have a very good idea of show an image of the gold chal-ing him the third U.S. team what we’re going to do,” Pavin ice. member to win a FedEx Cup said. “We’ve talked about it 
Pavin and the American team playoff event. Matt Kuchar won quite a bit, and the players have own the real thing. The ques-The Barclays, while Dustin an idea of the direction that I’m tion is whether they go home Johnson won the BMW going to go. But there’s no rea­with it. Championship. son for me to discuss it too 
After a night of travel on a “I like the way Team USA is much until I actually write the charter flight out of Atlanta, the playing right now,” Pavin said. pairings down on paper and defending champions arrived in “I think there’s a lot of guys that turn them in.” Wales for the Ryder Cup match-have been playing well, and Some pairings could become es they will try to win on foreign that’s always a good thing. Any clearer when the teams begin soil for the first time since 1993. captain is going to want his practicing on the Twenty Ten 
Europe is considered the players to be up on their game. course at Celtic Manor, the first stronger team on paper with But then again, anything can golf course specifically designed two major champions, Graeme happen during a week of golf. I with a Ryder Cup in mind. McDowell and Martin Kaymer, just would like my guys to be Steve Stricker and Dustin and a 12-man side that has pro-out there and be comfortable, Johnson took in a few holes of duced 17 victories this year, five relaxed, and get some good practice, Stricker dressed in a of those on the PGA Tour. The practice in the next couple of blue rain suit. The sky was gray perception of strength also is days. and dreary, and rain was in the based on who didn’t make the They were plenty relaxed on forecast for much of the week. team — Justin Rose, Paul Casey the way over. Celtic Manor otherwise looked and Sergio Garcia. It was the first time since at ready to stage the biggest team 
European captain Colin least 1997 the entire American event in golf. The grandstand Montgomerie isn’t buying into team came over on the same behind the first tee was in the that. plane. Some travelers and air-shape of an amphitheater, with 
“Yes, we might be favorites,” port workers were stunned towering bleachers behind the he said. “But I don’t see it as Sunday night to see Woods lean-18th green, and a stage already during the Ryder Cup. Stewart I’ve come here with no clubs. much as you guys might be put-ing against a wall having a erected for the opening ceremo-Cink and Ian Poulter each have Quite weird, really. I stood on ting this together. This will be casual conversation with ny. Casual observers might not more than a million followers. the first tee on Friday when I very, very close and very com-Mickelson as the U.S. team, know if they were at a golf tour-Montgomerie doesn’t tweet. arrived. Had my own thoughts petitive, as they always are.” wives and caddies gathered out-nament or Woodstock. More strange to him is not play-about ever playing in the Ryder 
The Americans have the top side one of the gates in the It was an otherwise routine ing. Cup. And after this great honor two players in the world rank-international concourse. day, the big news that both cap-“Strange in many ways,” and responsibility that this is, I ing, which in this case might be Odds are Woods and tains have asked their players Montgomerie said. “Biggest intend to do my utmost to try to misleading. Tiger Woods has not Mickelson weren’t talking four-not to use Twitter or Facebook event in my golfing career and make the team in 2012.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 
024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to 

CLASSIFIEDS 
edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
FOR RENT 
AVAILABLE NOW 4BD/2BA HOME FOR RENT. 1.5 miles from ND 574­876-6333 —————————————— Spacious Upper-Level Apartment Near Airport, on Busline 1 Bdr. $550, All Util Included Call Mike 574-250-0191 
——————————————— 

WANTED 
Earn $1000-$3200 a month to drive our brand new cars with ads placed on them. www.AdCarDriver.com 
——————————————— 
PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. 
——————————————— If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu. ——————————————— “I love inside jokes. I’d love to apart of one someday.” 
-Michael Scott ——————————————— “Either way, whatever.” 
-Tex ——————————————— “So he says “you will receive no money, but on your death bed, you will receive total consciousness.’ So I got that goin’ for me, which is nice.” 
-Caddyshack ——————————————— “And you must be the monopoly guy, by the way, thanks for the free parking.” 
-Ace Ventura ——————————————— “I’m not superstitious, just a little sti­cious.” 
-Michael Scott ——————————————— Harry- “But Petey didn’t have a head.” Lloyd- “Harry, I took care of it.” 
-Dumb and Dumber ——————————————— 

Tuesday, September 28, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
NFL 



Football legend George Blanda dies at 83 
record I was happy to get rid three touchdown passes in 
Associated Press 

of was the one for the most place of an injured Daryle 
ALAMEDA, Calif. — George interceptions, when Brett Lamonica in a 31-14 win over Blanda, who played longer Favre got that one.” Pittsburgh on Oct. 25. The fol-than anyone in pro football A moment of silence was lowing week he kicked a 48­history and racked up the held in Blanda’s honor before yard field goal in the final most points in a career that Monday night’s Green Bay-seconds to give the Raiders a spanned four decades, mostly Chicago game. 17-17 tie against Kansas City. with the Chicago Bears and It was a five-game stretch Blanda was just getting Oakland Raiders, died for Oakland in 1970 that is started. He threw a tying Monday. He was 83. the lasting imprint of his touchdown pass with 1:34 
“We are deeply saddened by career. As a 43 -year-old, remaining and then kicked the passing of the great Blanda led the Raiders to four the game -winning 52 -yard George Blanda,” the Raiders wins and one tie with late field goal in the final seconds said Monday in confirming his touchdown passes or field the following week in a 23-20 death. “George was a brave goals. win over Cleveland. Raider and a close personal Later that season, he He followed that with a 20­friend of Raiders owner Al became the oldest quarter-yard TD pass to Fred Davis.” The Pro Football Hall back to play in a champi -Biletnikoff in place of of Fame said on its website onship game, throwing two Lamonica in a 24-19 victory that Blanda died Monday after touchdown passes and kicking over Denver the next week, a brief illness. a field goal in Oakland’s 27-17 then kicked a 16-yard field 
Blanda retired a month shy loss to Baltimore in the AFC goal in the closing seconds to of his 49th birthday before the title game. His performance beat San Diego 20-17 on Nov. 1976 season. He spent 10 sea-that season earned him The 22. sons with the Bears, part of Associated Press Male Athlete “The game that I remember one with the Baltimore Colts, of the Year. the most was playing against seven with the Houston Oilers Blanda joined the Oilers of Cleveland in 1970,” he once and his final nine with the the new American Football said. “We were down 20-13 Raiders. League in 1960 and played 16 and I came in and we got a 
“Football lost one of it’s all-seasons before hanging it up touchdown and then we got a time greats,” Hall of Fame for good following the 1975 field goal in the last three sec-coach John Madden said. “He campaign. He led the Oilers to onds.” was the best competitor and the first two AFL titles, beat-Blanda entered the NFL out clutchest player that I ever ing the Chargers for the of Kentucky as a 12th-round Year in 1961, holds AFL sin-attention and fans. We had a coached and I don’t know if championship following the pick (119th overall) of the gle-game passing record of celebration last year in there was anyone better that 1960 and ‘61 seasons. Chicago Bears in 1949. He 464 yards on Oct. 29, 1961, Houston for the 1960 and anyone else coached. George He nearly won a third spent most of the next decade against Buffalo, and was cho-1961 AFL championship sea-Blanda was a Hall of Famer in straight title when he led the with the Bears, leaving to play sen the league’s all-time kick-sons and the team hall of every way.” Oilers back from a 17-0 half-one game for the Colts in er. fame members and it was 
Blanda held the pro scoring time deficit to the Dallas 1950. After winning the Bears “We did all the strategy great to have George join us record when he retired, with Texans in the 1962 title game starting job in 1953, Blanda right on the field,” he once and remember fondly those 2,002 points. He kicked 335 before losing in double over-promptly lost it the following said. “Today, the coaches call early years.” field goals and 943 extra time. season because of injury. His all the plays, so all the quar-In 1967, the Oilers thought points, running for nine “George Blanda will always playing time at quarterback terbacks have to do is per-Blanda was at the end of his touchdowns and throwing for be remembered as a legend of quickly diminished and he form. They are more or less career, but the Raiders picked 236 more. our game,” NFL Commissioner retired in 1959 at age 31 programmed.” him up as a backup quarter-
He also threw for 26,920 Roger Goodell said in a state-when Chicago planned to Oilers owner Bud Adams back and kicker and he lasted yards in his career and held ment, “including his amazing make him a full-time kicker. It said Blanda’s flair was a rea-nine more seasons. the pro football record with career longevity of 26 seasons was a short -lived break son the AFL attracted so “A seemingly ageless won­277 interceptions until Brett in four different decades. because he then joined the much attention. der, George inspired legions of Favre passed him in 2007. His George’s multi-talented flair AFL’s Oilers the next season. “He was the perfect fit for fans over a 26-year career, points record stood until it for the dramatic highlighted Blanda was one of the new the start of the AFL, joining with his clutch performances was topped by several players the excitement of pro football league’s many prolific our league from the NFL and as a quarterback and place in recent years. during an important period of passers, throwing for 19,149 displaying the ability to lead a kicker. He will be truly 
“It certainly doesn’t bother growth for our sport.” yards and 165 touchdowns in high flying offense,” Adams missed,” said Steve Perry, me,” Blanda said about losing Blanda began his memo -seven seasons for the Oilers. said in a statement. “His play executive director of the Pro the scoring record. “The one rable run in 1970 by throwing He was the AFL Player of the garnered our league a lot of Football Hall of Fame. 

NBA 


McGrady looks forward to career return after knee injuries 
Associated Press  ing a potential logjam for the Pistons on the perimeter for  myself. ... When you go from being one of the elite players  “Just a wake-up call and a culture shock to me at the  said. “You can’t please every­body. You wish you could give  
AUBU R N HILLS , M i c h .  —  c o a c h  J o h n  K u e s t e r  t o  in this league and you have  same  time,” Prince said. “I’m  everybody 34 minutes. We’re  
E v e n a t a g e 3 1, t i m e w a s beginning to run out for Tracy McGrady. After two seasons ruined by k n e e pr o b l e m s, M c G r ad y a p p ro a c h e d t h i s of f s e a s o n w i t h d e t e r m i n a tio n a n d  resolve. “Coach, he’s going to have a good time,” Hamilton said. “When you’ve got a lot of spe­cial guys that can put the ball in the basket and play ... it’s a good thing for a coach. You’re  t hi s i n j u r y, it ’s t o ug h , ” McGrady said. “I’ve been fighting my whole career to try to advance in the playoffs, and then an injury c om es a bo u t , a n d I si t i n Chicago and watch my team  just excited to get back and h e l p t he s e y o un g gu y s, because they were kind of out on an island last year with me and Rip being hurt so much.” If everyone stays healthy, McGrady’s addition could give  going to put out the guys that have committed themselves in our practice sessions. Also, we’re going to be committed to what we’re trying to get accomplished defensively.” P i s t o n s p r e s i d e n t Jo e  
urgency. “I was going to work hard. I was going to give it a shot,” McGrady s aid. “If it didn’t w or k ou t th is o ff se a s on to  never really worrying a lot.” M c G r a d y ha d major surgery on h i s le ft k ne e i n F e b r u a r y 2 0 09 ,  (the Rockets) advance to the s e c o n d r o u n d a n d f i g ht t h e Lakers hard  the Pistons a glut of players with similar abilities on the perimeter. Hamilton has been the subject of trade specula­tion.  Dumars echoed Kuester’s sen­timents. “The players will determine who plays,” Dumars said in an e -m a i l t o T he A s so c ia t e d  
where I didn’t feel well, that w a s g o in g t o b e i t f or me, because it was just too much to really come back from.” No w, M cG r a d y s a ys h e ’s healthy and at ease, and he’s awaiting another chance to r e v i v e a c a r e er t h a t o n c e  and a ye ar l ater h e w a s tr a d e d f r om H ou s t on to t h e K n i c k s . H e s t a r t e d al l 24 games he played with New York but averaged only 9.4  “I wouldn’t put this jersey on if I didn’t want to be here.” Richard Hamilton Pistons guard  in a G a m e 7 , a n d I ’ m not able to h e l p t h o s e guys out.” P r i n c e understands the frustra­ “I wouldn’t put this jersey on if I didn’t want to be here,” Hamilton said. “I think since I’ve been here, the fans and or g a n i z ati on ha ve b een so great to me.” Eleven players started at least 10 games for Detroit last  Press. “We’re deep and that has always been a staple of our teams.” For McGrady, playing time is a secondary concern. After months of trying to recover f r o m a m a j o r i n j u r y, h e ’s happy for the chance to be  
looked so promising. The two-time NBA scoring champion s i gn e d w i t h t h e D e t r o i t Pistons last month, and he’ll  points. A t D e t r o i t ’s m e d i a d a y Monday, McGrady  t i o n . H e missed over 30 games in the 2009-10  season, and all but one are back. Add McGrady and lot­tery pick Greg Monroe, and Kuester will have plenty of  back on the court again and hopes to regain the form that made him a seven-time All-Star.  
have a couple of new team­mates who can relate to his  d es c r i b ed s o m e d i f f i c u l t nights watching basketball  season because of back and kn e e p r o b l e m s . H a m i l to n  decisions to make before the season opener.  “I c a n ho n e st l y s a y I ’ v e never worked as hard as I did  
struggles. R i c h a r d  H a m i l t o n  a n d  a nd w o n d e rin g w h a t become of his career.  h a d  played in only 46 games, with a sprained ankle the primary  “We’re going to have a num­ber of guys that are going to  the last couple seasons and this offseason,” McGrady said.  
Tayshaun Prince are also try-in g t o b o u n c e ba c k fr o m injury-plagued seasons, form­ “It was frustrating. There were times when I actually t e a r e d u p w h e n I w a s by  culprit. Prince had a consecutive games streak snapped at 497.  be competing for playing time, and that’s what you want in a baske tba ll ca mp ,” K ue s ter  “I’m only 31. Really, I’m only 29 because I haven’t played in two seasons.”  

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, September 28, 2010 
at all this week, because Jamie Koepsel said. “We have everyone had midterms,” some other very good Morrissey sophomore captain receivers. It was just today we continued from page 20 Sean Baur said. “Our offense were able to get some under-
needs to get a little tougher neath routes to Alex.” score, they showed noticeable and learn to play from Keenan’s defense, led by improvement from last week’s behind.” sophomore lineman Tyler game against Siegfried, espe-Morrissey will have plenty of Gregory, wreaked havoc in the cially on the offensive line. time to improve as they head Keough (0-2) backfield, leav­
“That’s the best the offensive into their bye week. Alumni ing the Kangaroos bruised and has ever played,” Herlihy said. looks to continue their success battered. The Knights ended 
Though it was a somewhat next week against Duncan. with seven sacks. ugly win, the victory means Despite the strong defensive quite a bit to the Highlander Dillon 15, O’Neill 7 effort and the ability to move squad. Dillon slugged past O’Neill in the ball, special teams issues 
“We started three years ago a hard-hitting victory Sunday nearly cost Keenan the win. with an all-freshman team, afternoon. The Knights had two field and we were the joke of the It was a tale of two halves as goals blocked before they put league,” junior linebacker and each team heavily struggled in up the winning score. tight end Brent Leahy said. one half while the other flour-“We had the opportunity to “But we improved each year, ished. In the first half alone, get some field goals but we and now we’re led by juniors, O’Neill (1-1) junior quarter-were unable to convert,” and have strong sophomore back J.P. McCabe threw for Koepsel said. “I think that’s a and freshman groups.” 150 yards and a touchdown, major thing we need to be 
With their first victory under while throwing for only 42 working on.” their belts, Leahy said the yards in the second half. In the end, though, it was a Highlanders will now be look-Meanwhile, the Big Red (1-0) special teams mishap by ing to contend in every game labored in the first half, mus-Keough, that led to the Knight and qualify for the playoffs. tering only 72 total yards and win. A bad snap on a punt 
Duncan will next face went into halftime trailing 7-0. allowed Keenan to take over Alumni, while Knott will battle “We gave up some really big at the 20-yard line and they rival Siegfried next Sunday. plays on defense and were not scored on the next play. 
able to get anything going at Keough also had a 45-yard Alumni 6, Morrissey 0 all offensively in the first touchdown pass early in the It took nearly two years and half,” Dillon’s senior captain game called back for offensive 
four long quarters, but Alumni Jordan Smith said. “We looked pass interference. be their last. game plan was to go down the is back to winning after a vic-pretty rusty out there but “Two plays were the differ-Gardner found his primary field and throw deep balls,” tory over Morrissey. knew that we were going to ence in the game,” Keough receiver in Dorman, and the Spinelli said. “Fisher’s corner-
Alumni (1-0) dominated the have to cut down on mistakes senior captain Kevin Laughlin two led the charge downfield. backs did a good job of keep-first half, shutting down the in order to win.” said. “That’s it. It was Gardner found the middle ing everything in front of Manor’s (1-1) passing attack, It appeared as though the extremely even otherwise.” open on a fake option for the them, but the one time they and grinding down Morrissey’s rust wore off as the Big Red Despite the result, Keough touchdown, and tossed it to slipped up, I took advantage.” defensive front behind the came out firing after halftime, was happy to have played bet-freshman receiver Tom After stopping the Green two-headed rushing attack of swinging the momentum with ter than their opening contest. Spoonmore on the conversion. Wave on their next drive, junior running backs Barrick a forced fumble, one of six “The fact that we moved the From there the Vermin Sorin again opened up the 
Bollman and captain Dan turnovers for the Mob, early in ball and had two or three defense went to work on the field as senior tailback Dansdill. The duo drove the the third quarter. Moments scoring opportunities was a Gentlemen, hassling a veteran Michael Browder took off for a Dawgs down the field on two later, the Big Red drove the big plus, so we improved a quarterback with 12 incom-60-yard run on first down and long second quarter drives, field and scored, taking the great deal,” Laughlin said. pletions and a sack on the day. capped off the drive with a 4­
but they were unable to con-lead after a botched hold on Next week, Keenan battles Finally, a second Dorman yard touchdown run. vert in the red zone, and the the extra point attempt led to Dillon while Keough looks for interception, 50-yard rush and Leading the Otters’ offensive first half ended scoreless. a two-point conversion. their first win against touchdown sealed the Vermin line was freshman Taylor 
An early Alumni fumble to Later in the fourth quarter, Stanford. victory. Nutter who recorded six pan-open the second half gave the the Big Red added an insur-Captain Keith Marrero cake blocks. Manor great field position, but ance touchdown with a 60-Carroll 27, St. Edward’s 13 attributed the freshman duo “Our offensive line overpow­they were unable to take yard pass from freshman In their season opener with much of Carroll’s opening ered their defensive front and 
advantage, and after four quarterback Kevin Fink to Sunday, a determined Carroll day success. made it easy for me,” Browder incomplete passes by Conrad, sophomore receiver Will Salvi, team stunned St. Edward’s “I can’t say enough about said. “On the touchdown run, Morrissey gave the ball right who had a huge day with 106 with an impressive victory. Jack and Bobby,” Marrero the left side of the line gave back to the Dawgs. yards receiving and two inter-The game marked the debut of said. “They were the players me a huge hole and I punched 
The Dawgs continued to ceptions. several standout Vermin of the game.” in the end zone.” dominate with the inside run “We had excellent passing freshmen, especially quarter-The Vermin hope to continue It was not only the Otter game, starting off the drive protection in the second half back Jack Gardner and cor-their success next week offense that came to play. The with a dive play by Dansdill and [Fink] was great in finding nerback and receiver Bobby against Zahm, while St. defense held their ground with that went for 42 yards. the open guy,” Salvi said. Dorman. Edward’s will face Fisher. their toughness, causing five Dansdill, who finished the day Dillon will try to record On the first drive of the overall turnovers including with 94 yards on 12 carries, back -to-back wins as they game, Carroll’s quick first Sorin 14, Fisher 6 three interceptions of junior 
insisted that the credit for the take on Keenan Sunday while down set the tone for the rest From the first play to the Fisher quarterback Pat run game didn’t lie in the O’Neill will look to regroup of the contest. final knee, Sorin dominated Hertenstein. backfield. with a bye week. “There were definitely some Fisher. The Green Wave caught 
“It was all the offensive first-game jitters,” Gardner The Otters (1-1) used their Sorin by surprise on the final line,” Dansdill said. “It’s easy Keenan 6, Keough 0 said. “But we got out there size and speed advantage to play of the third quarter when to run the ball when you A physical, bone-crunching-and made some yards on the put away the Green Wave (1-Hertenstien threw a 65-yard aren’t touched until you’re hit -filled game between first drive, and we felt pretty 1). touchdown pass to McMahon 
four yards down the field.” Keenan and Keough appeared confident after that.” Sorin set the tone of the on a second down play. The drive was capped two headed to a scoreless tie, until The smothering Vermin game from the first play as Fisher had chance to tie 
Highlanders 

a plays later on another inside the Knights managed a late defense stopped the their linebacker corps hit sen-the Otters on their last drive run, this time by Bollman, who touchdown to edge the Gentlemen’s first possession ior Fisher tailback Michael late in the fourth quarter but 
went 23 yards untouched for Kangaroos and rack their first with a safety by sophomore McMahon and made him all Green Wave hopes 
were the decisive score. victory. captain Keith Marrero. A field cough up the ball. shot down immediately when 
“It was one of our special Keenan (1 -1) ran a fade goal by freshman kicker The Otters made it look easy Hertenstein threw an inter­plays,” Bollman said. “As soon route from the 20-yard line to Connor Miller later gave the on their first drive, as sopho-ception on the first play of the as we saw how [Morrissey] the back corner of the end-Vermin a 5-0 lead. more quarterback Ted Spinelli drive. lined up, we knew it was going zone with three minutes left. St. Ed’s responded with a tossed a 35-yard touchdown Both teams are looking to to work.” Sophomore quarterback quarterback sneak into the pass to senior wide receiver improve their records to 2-1 
A blocked extra point gave Trevor Yerrick lofted the pass end zone by senior Matt Jon Beckerle on a third-and-next week. The Green Wave Morrissey some hope for a to sophomore wide receiver Abeling. The lead was short four play. will battle with Carroll while win, but their last two drives Alex Green, who snagged the lived though, as Dorman inter-“Our wide receivers had a Sorin will face off with Zahm. ended in a punt and an inter-ball to put his team on the cepted an Abeling pass at the definite size advantage over 
ception, which sealed the board. 10-yard line and ran it the their cornerbacks,” Beckerle Contact Victoria Jacobsen at 
game for Alumni, their first Typically one to utilize a length of the field for the said. “I made a move to get vjacobse@nd.edu, Jack Hefferon win after a winless 2009 sea-deep receiving corps, Yerrick touchdown. Miller converted open and [Ted] Spinelli deliv-at wheffero@nd.edu, Andrew son. On the other sideline, the looked mostly to Green on on the extra pointl for a 12-6 ered a perfect pass.” Gastelum at agastell@nd.edu, Manor attributed their subpar Sunday. lead. Sorin also used a oppor-Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu, performance to a lack of “[Yerrick and Green] have Another Abeling touchdown tunistic mentality to score Kelsey Manning at preparation. just been gelling very well,” and extra point regained the points. kmannin3@nd.edu and Adam 
“We weren’t able to practice Keenan senior co -captain Gentlemen’s lead, but it was to “Going into the game, our Llorens at allorens@nd.edu 

Named All -County first -knew I wanted to play in col-here, and our program is to NCAA finals all four years, team member in 2008 at lege,” she said. awesome,” Nhim said. “The to be an All-American, and to 

Nhim 

Cypress High School in The place to play was never coaching staff and the meet lots of people, ” she continued from page 20 California, Nhim stood out as a question either. While she women’s team are so sup -said. 
a leader. The decision to play spoke with coaches from UC portive and great about At this rate, she seems to simple way to pass the time. the sport she grew to love in Davis, Vanderbilt and everything, so it really wasn’t be aiming at a very attain-At the age of 10, her parents college was never a hesita-Georgetown, she never con-hard to decide to come here.” able level for both herself wanted her to find a hobby to tion. sidered any of them a serious Nhim is entering the world and her teammates. get out of the house, so she “I started playing tourna-alternative. of college athletics with a few started playing. It stuck with ments when I was 11, and I “I love how strong both ath-concise goals. Contact Megan Finneran at her ever since. really liked competition so I letics and the academics are “I want our team to make it mfnnera@nd.edu 
Tuesday, September 28, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
MLB 




Wells, Buck help Blue Jays to victory over Yankees 
Associated Press 
TORONTO — Vernon Wells hit a three-run homer, John Buck added a solo shot and the Toronto Blue Jays pounded A.J. Burnett, then held on for a 7-5 victory over the New York Yankees on Monday. 
Toronto assured itself of at least 
a .500 finish and temporarily denied the Yankees the chance to clinch a playoff berth. A Boston loss later Monday would also send New York into the postseason. 
Mark Teixeira hit a three-run homer and Curtis Granderson added a two-run drive for the Yankees, who have lost five of six. 
The Blue Jays lead the major leagues with 243 home runs this season, one shy of the team record set in 2000. 
Toronto left-hander Marc Rzepczynski (3-4) allowed two runs and four hits in five innings to win back-to-back starts for the first time this season. He walked three and matched a career high with nine strikeouts. 

Brian Tallet pitched 1 1-3 innings, Josh Roenicke and Jesse Carlson each got one out, Scott Downs worked the eighth and Kevin Gregg closed it out in the ninth for his 36th save in 41 chances. 
Burnett (10-15), who has lost seven of his past 11 starts, allowed seven runs and seven hits in 2 1-3 innings, his second shortest start of the year. The right-hander, who walked one and struck out one, is 0-3 with a 9.61 ERA in four starts against his former team this sea­son. 
Jose Bautista opened the scor­ing with an RBI groundout in the first and Buck doubled the advan­tage with a leadoff homer to left in the second, his 19th, before the Blue Jays chased Burnett with a five-run third. 
Travis Snider walked to open the inning and Yunel Escobar was hit, putting runners at first and second. Bautista flied out, but Wells followed with a first-pitch drive to left for his 31st homer. 
Lyle Overbay doubled and scored on Buck’s single to center and Burnett was yanked after Adam Lind singled through the right side. Jonathan Albaladejo came on and gave up a sacrifice fly to Edwin Encarnacion, then got John McDonald to fly out. 
Granderson homered into the second deck in right off Rzepczynski in the fifth, his 24th of the season, and Teixeira chased Tallet with a one-out blast to cen­ter in the seventh for his 33rd of the year. 
Rzepczynski recorded eight con­secutive outs by strikeouts between the first and fourth innings, a streak that started when Alex Rodriguez fanned to end the first. Robinson Cano struck out to start the second and, after singles by Marcus Thames and Austin Kearns, Rzepczynski struck out Granderson and Francisco Cervelli. 


NFL 


Weis taken to surgery after game 
Associated Press 

KANSAS CITY, Mo. — Kansas City Chiefs offensive coordinator Charlie Weis had emergency gall bladder surgery Monday morning, according to a news­paper report. 
Weis’ agent, Bob LaMonte, told The Kansas City Star that Weis chose to delay surgery until after the Sunday’s home game against the San Francisco 49ers. 
Chiefs coach Todd Haley refused to talk about Weis’ con­dition Monday beyond saying that it was not a life-threatening situation. 
Radio station 810 WHB was the first to report that the 54­year-old Weis had undergone emergency treatment after the game. Another Kansas City sta­tion, 610 Sports Radio KCSP, later reported that it was gall bladder surgery. 
LaMonte told the newspaper that Weis had a painful infection but put off the surgery so he could coach in the game, a 31­10 Chiefs victory over the 49ers. 
Last week, Michigan State coach Mark Dantonio was hos­pitalized after his team beat Notre Dame in overtime for what was described as a mild heart attack. He is recovering from surgery and his return for the Spartans is unknown. 
Weis, the offensive coordina­tor for the New England Patriots’ Super Bowl teams, was hired by the Chiefs after he was fired last year as head coach at Notre Dame. 
He underwent a procedure on his knee in the offseason and spent most of training camp moving around on a motorized cart. He walked with difficulty while using a cane and wore a large knee brace. All he has said about that situation was that part of his knee “fell off” a few weeks before camp opened. 
The Chiefs (3-0) are off this week. 
page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, September 28, 2010 
HOCKEY 



Irish announce senior Lavin as team captain 
Observer Staff Report 
Irish coach Jeff Jackson announced his selections as captains and alternates for the upcoming 2010-11 season Monday. Senior defenseman Joe Lavin will wear the ‘C’ for the Irish, while classmates Calle Ridderwall, Ben Ryan and Ryan Guentzel will serve as alternates. 
Lavin only joined the Irish for the second half of last season after starting his career at Providence and playing one and a half sea­sons for the Omaha Lancers of the United States Hockey League (USHL). 
Despite playing only 18 games for Notre Dame last season, Lavin scored three goals and seven assists. He will be the only senior defenseman on the Irish ros­ter this season. 
“Joe [Lavin] was a unani­mous choice by the players to be team captain and the coaches agreed, ” Jackson said to und.com. “That says an awful lot about a young man who transferred in here at midseason and the kind of impact he has had since arriving and over the summer months.” 

Ridderwall, a native of Stockholm, Sweden, led the Irish in goals (19), points (27) and shots (132) last season. In 114 career games, Ridderwall has tallied 41 goals, including a dramatic overtime game-winner in the 2008 national semifinal that propelled the Irish into the national championship game. As a right wing, he also led the CCHA last year with 11 power-play goals. 
“Calle [Ridderwall] has made great strides in his four years here as a player on the ice, in the weight room and in the classroom,” Jackson said. “He leads by example with his work ethic and his tenaci­ty in the way he plays the game.” 
Ryan has played in 115 career games for Notre Dame, scoring 29 goals. The center has also shown a knack for scoring when in matters most, with seven career game-winning goals. Ryan will also likely handle a majority of the faceoff duties 

SMC GOLF 

Senior Boyce leads Belles to third place 
consistent effort from the 
By TIM SINGLER 

other golfers. Freshman Doyle 
Sports Writer 

O’Brien finished with an 84 Monday, four strokes less 
Saint Mary’s finished third then her score Sunday, to fin-in the two-day tournament ish in 22nd place. hosted by Oglethorpe Senior Rosie O’Connor fin-University at the Mission Inn ished in 25th place and fresh-Resort in Howey-of-the-Hills, man Meg Ryan shot a 105 to Fla. help the Belles to a third 
The Belles totaled a team place finish. score of 679, shooting a 341 The top-ranked and 13-time and a 338 on the first day and defending national champions second days, respectively. Methodist University captured 
Senior Mary Kate Boyce led the top honors as well as the the attack for the Belles as individual honors. They fin-she shot a two-day total 165 ished with a two-day total (85-80). She also sunk the 651. Illinois Wesleyan came in most pars in the tournament. second place with a 665 team Her overall fourth place finish score. was enough to mark her as one of the top competitors. Contact Tim Singler at tsin-
The team had yet another gler@nd.edu 
for the Irish this season. 

“[Ryan] has taken a very proactive approach to getting our team back to a high level in giving back to the commu­nity,” Jackson said. “I’m very proud of where Ben is right now. I expect him to be one of our top players and have a strong presence in the locker room.” 
Guentzel rounds out the Irish leadership corps for the upcoming season. Playing at right wing, Guentzel has seen action in 100 career games, with four goals and 17 assists to his name. While he may not put up gaudy statistics, Guentzel garnered praise for his versatility and leadership off the ice. 
“He’s played a modest role for us since he’s been here but has always had a good attitude and a strong under­standing of the game,” Jackson said. “He’s one of the vocal guys in the locker room. He understands what we need to do and how we need to do it as far as doing the right thing.” 
Notre Dame will take the ice for the first time this sea-son Friday in an exhibition Oct. 8 when they take part in game against the University the Warrior College Hockey of Guelph. The Irish will kick Ice Breaker Tournament in off their regular season slate St. Louis. 

a lifetime opportunity.” 

Taking advantage of the oppor­tunity has led to new ones with her teammates, on and off the court, that have added to her col­lege experience. Her favorite team memory wasn’t even on the court. 
“One of my favorite memories of being on the ND team was being able to attend a New York Yankees game after our match,” she said. “Not only was it my first professional baseball game, but we also went on a tour of the sta­dium and watched the game from an executive suite.” 
Aside from the off-court fun, Eppink said she has more serious goals for herself and her team this season that she is working to achieve. 
“Some of my season goals are to keep playing with intensity and getting better with each match,” Eppink said. “As for team goals, I would have to say going undefeat­ed in the Big East again, doing well in the NCAA tournament, and also getting better with each match. In working to achieve these goals, I’m going to play smarter, have a clear head and just have fun.” 
If her recent performances don’t speak for themselves, Eppink is certainly on her way to achieving her own goals and help­ing the Irish to capture their own. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 


Energy 
continued from page 20 
and four blocks to lead the Irish as they closed out the Big East opening weekend. And her per­formance Sunday is only a pre­view of what the conference has in store from the Westfield, Ind. native who doesn’t plan to stop having fun anytime soon. 
“I’m just having a lot of fun this season,” she said. “It’s fun getting kills and when the team works together and is successful, I just want to keep rolling with it.” 
The rolling has not come easy for Eppink, who, standing at 6­foot-2, played in only 39 sets last season and had 51 kills while also putting up 39 blocks, both more than any of her classmates. This season she has already doubled the amount of kills and made 56 blocks, suggesting a newfound confidence and intensity in her play, which raises the question, where did she come from? 

“I’m a lot more comfortable on the floor, talking, being outgoing. The team is really meshing well,” Eppink said. 
Along with feeling more com­fortable on the floor, Eppink said she feels she is coming into her­self as a player and finding her own motivation. 
“What motivates me off the court is simply wanting to have fun and do my best,” she said. “On the court, I guess it’s sort of a pride thing. I just want to prove to other teams who we are and that they should be afraid to play us.” 
After beginning to play volley­ball on a city team in fourth grade, she was hooked for life and the chance to play for such a notable team was only a fantasy for Eppink. 
“Notre Dame was one of my dream schools,” she said. “Not only is it one of the top institutions in the country, but getting the opportunity to play volleyball at the same time was truly a once in 

Tuesday, September 28, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
MEN’S GOLF 




Juniors lead way in Classic 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
The quest for the Irish to repeat as champions in the Fighting Irish Gridiron Golf Classic is turning into a two-team race, as Notre Dame is tied with Iowa at seven-over-par after the first two rounds of the three-round tournament. 
The Irish and the Hawkeyes hold a 10-stroke advantage over San Francisco going into the final round. 
Junior Tom Usher led the Irish on day one, which featured 36 holes of golf on the Warren Golf Course north of campus. Usher fired a 1­under score of 139 over two rounds to share the individual lead in the tournament with San Francisco’s Taylor Travis. 
Usher posted five birdies on the front nine to reach a low score of four-under before stumbling a bit down the stretch with three straight bogeys on the 10th through 12th holes. 
Right behind Usher was his fel­low junior and Irish team leader Max Scodro, who had an eventful day, posting 10 birdies and nine scores of bogey or worse to even out at even par when the day ended. Scodro sits one stroke behind Usher and Taylor heading into tomorrow’s action. 
Rounding out the scoring Irish golfers were freshman Niall Platt (+3), who in only his second tourna­ment with the squad continues to prove a reliable lineup option for Kubinski, and junior Chris Walker (+8). Platt played a clean round in the morning to post a score of one-under before struggling in the after­noon with six bogeys. Senior Connor-Alan Lee’s score of 10-over­par rounded out the lineup, but under the tournament’s five-count­four scoring structure Lee’s day one score does not count toward the Irish competitive score, as only the top four Irish scores are counted. 


Day two will consist of one round, with the Hawkeyes and the Irish neck-and-neck heading into the final 18 holes. Usher and the rest of the Irish will look to best the Hawkeyes and hold off the rest of a competitive fourteen team field as the field gets back underway at 8 
a.m. Tuesday at the Warren Golf Course. 

Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 


NCAA FOOTBALL 


Hoosiers focus for Wolverines challenge 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS — Indiana coach Bill Lynch wants his players focused solely on foot­ball all week. 
Good luck, given the hype in Bloomington. 
With No. 19 Michigan head­ing to town for Saturday’s Big Ten opener, fans are asking the one question players won’t: Can the Hoosiers pull the upset? 
Indiana’s fans have been pointing to this game as the season’s first big measuring stick since the schedule came out, and many believe it will dictate how the rest of this season goes. 
It’s too hot a topic for even Lynch to discuss. 
“This team has been an easy team to coach,” Lynch said. “That’s why I’m confi­dent they understand that the level of play and intensity has to go up.” 
There is reason for hope in Bloomington. A year ago, the Hoosiers came within a whisker of winning their first game at Ann Arbor since 1967. Tate Forcier ruined the celebration with a 26-yard TD pass to Martavious Odoms with 2:29 to go, giving the Wolverines an unforgettable 36-33 victory that kept their winning streak intact. 
“I remember what hap­pened,” Indiana quarterback Ben Chappell said with a wry smile after Saturday night’s win over Akron. 
Fifty-three weeks later, the storylines are virtually the same. Both teams are unbeat­en. Both have proven they can score. Both are con­cerned about giving up too many points, and Michigan is ranked, again, while Indiana is not. 
What has changed is the perception of the game. A year ago, nobody outside Indiana’s locker room thought the Hoosiers could be com­petitive against one of their long-standing nemeses. Now, it’s anybody’s guess. 
The conversations have returned to 1987, the last time Indiana beat Michigan, or 1990, the last time the Hoosiers started 4-0, or 2001, the last time Indiana won its Big Ten opener. 
But the Hoosiers (3-0) aren’t talking about any of that. 
“Any team we play, we think we can beat the team. We never go into a game say­ing, ‘I hope we win,’” receiver Terrance Turner said Monday. “If you’re a competi­tor you want to win every game you play. We have more and more players with that same attitude.” 
Why not? 

The Hoosiers have scored at least 35 points in all three games this season, and have had winning margins of 15 points or more all three times as well. Indiana has stayed relatively healthy, and Chappell is playing like a fifth-year senior, completing 
72.4 percent of his passes, while throwing nine touch­downs and no interceptions. 
And now, against a much better opponent than Towson, Western Kentucky or Akron, Chappell knows he and his teammates have to be even better if they want to rewrite history. 
“I watched quite a lot of film yesterday, and I’ve tried to get somewhat comfortable with them,” Chappell said. “They are similar to last year defensively. I think they’re better. I think they had a lot of young guys last year and they were getting used to that system. So, now they’ve had a year in it and they’re moving around a lot. They’re a good team.” 
Good enough to give the Hoosiers worry. 
Indiana’s defense has given up several big plays to mobile quarterbacks during the first month of the season, and it has struggled to stop the run. Last weekend, Akron churned out 160 yards and averaged 
5.3 yards per carry, some­thing that must get fixed before Denard Robinson and the Wolverines (4-0) come to town this weekend. Even if Robinson is gimpy after bruis­ing his left knee. 
But will that be enough for the Hoosiers to, finally, beat Michigan after 16 consecutive losses? Perhaps. 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, September 28, 2010 
field, and work hard at prac-ent story. Pasquerilla West domi­tice,” Casanova said. nated play, as Bigi found 
Phoxes 

Farley hopes to continue with Yerokun for one touchdown and continued from page 20 its momentum as they take on later ran the ball two yards for 
Lyons next week, while Breen another. Walsh failed to score exhibited a steller performance Phillips will look to win its first after halftime. for the first half as senior quar-game against Cavanaugh. Amanda Speigelberg, Walsh terback Kayla Bishop and junior senior defensive captain, and wide receiver Jenny Gassner Cavanaugh 21, Lyons 6 the rest of the Wild Women did connected for two touchdowns, Cavanaugh relied on a stifling see many positive aspects in the one in the final minute of the defense and a number of big game. half. plays provided by the offense to “We showed improvement 
“I kind of had to scramble for beat Lyons and prolong their from last week, and we’re ready it, and all of the sudden the ball undefeated start. to take on Welsh Family next was coming down,” Gassner The mostly one-sided game weekend,” Speigelberg said. said. “It was really a sponta-started with the lone Lyons’ (1-Despite the victory, Pasquerilla neous play that wasn’t really 2) touchdown pass from fresh-West players said they see areas planned out at all, but it really man quarterback Christina for improvement. worked out.” Bramanti to senior wide receiv-“We worked on running the 
Howard’s defense dominated er and running back Neva ball today, but in the future we’d in the second half. Pangborn’s Lundy. Cavanaugh’s (3-0) like to see some more passing,” first possession of the second defense locked down the Lions senior wide receiver Mary Forr half ended quickly when senior for the rest of the game, a per-said. defensive lineman Kaitlin formance highlighted by an The Purple Weasels look to Robinson intercepted Tate’s interception by senior defensive continue their winning streak pass, setting the stage for back Maggie Fahrenbach. next week against Ryan, while Howard’s final touchdown drive. “I was just very impressed Walsh tries to earn its first victo-Soon after that, it was Howard’s overall with the effort our ry in a matchup with Welsh sophomore cornerback Kirsten defense showed and how pre-Family. Bescher who picked off Tate for pared they were,” Cavanaugh Howard’s second interception of defensive coach Tyler Smith Pasquerilla East 13, Badin 0 the day. said. In a tough defensive battle 
“I just saw the quarterback Cavanaugh also got it done on between two young teams each scrambling, and then my girl cut offense, as they answered the looking for their first wins, the in front of me,” Bescher said. Lions’ early score with one of outcome was determined by ging two interceptions for touch-takes, and we made more than “We’re just a pretty tight unit, their own when junior wide mistakes. Pasquerilla East mini-downs, to give the Pyros a 13-0 they did,” Demetrio said. and we understand how each receiver Megan Robinson reined mized penalties in the game and lead at the half, and a scoreless Badin faces Lewis next Sunday other work. We have a good in a deep pass by junior quarter-took advantage of errant passes second half secured the victory while Pasquerilla East plays vision of the field and where to back Becca Cink for a score, the to defeat Badin. for the Pyros. Pangborn. go.” pair’s first of two connections on The solid defensive play start-Senior coach Buchi Offodile 
Pangborn’s captain said she is the day. The Chaos would add to ed early on in the game. praised the Pyros’ defensive Editor’s Note: The scheduled confident that this loss will help their lead later in the first half Possession was juggled back and backs as well as the offense’s game between Welsh Family and the team prepare for future off of a running back pass to forth as both teams searched for ability to advance down the McGlinn was not played due to 
games. senior wide receiver Holly Hinz. the end zone. A two-way play by field. a Welsh Family forfeit for failure 
“We definitely know what to For the Lions, the loss came the Bullfrogs’ junior safety and “While our points came from to report to the game on time. work on,” Tate said. “I think in on the heels of an impressive receiver Ryan Cooney and Pyros’ the defense’s two picks, the McGlinn (2-1) will enjoy a bye the Badin game we started off victory last week and raises con-freshman receiver and defensive offense moved the ball really week next Sunday while Welsh 
really strong and maybe made cerns for the players and coach-back Kiah Schaefbauer resulted well and would have finished if Family (0-2) will look to win its 
us a little overconfident. Now we es. in a back-and-forth affair it hadn’t been for some mis-first game against Walsh. need to go back to the drawing “We came into a more difficult between the two squads, but no cues,” Offodile said. “Red zone board and really look at what team,” junior wide receiver points came out of it, as Badin offense will be our focus in prac-Contact Megan Golden at we can work on, on offense and Caroline Maroney said. “We penalties stalled their offense. tice this week.” mgolde01@saintmarys.edu, defense. We’re happy this hap-relied on plays that worked for Pasquerilla East proceeded to Badin coach Tommy Demetrio, Lucie Gordon at pened early in the season, so we us last week and weren’t neces-capitalize on risky passing plays though frustrated by penalties lgordo01@saintmarys.edu, can make adjustments for the sarily working for us this week.” by the Badin offense, with fresh-and interceptions, gave credit to Joseph Monardo at playoffs.” The Lions’ second loss threat-man defensive back Abby both defenses. jmonardo@nd.edu, Sarach 
Howard has a bye next ens their playoff hopes, but the Kostielney and junior defensive “In an evenly matched game Crippin at scrippin@nd.edu and Sunday, while Pangborn will window isn’t closed yet. back Nneka Ekechukwu snag-like that, it comes down to mis-Jack Yusko at jyusko@nd.edu host Pasquerilla East. “We’re going to finish .500,” 
coach Pat Mulhern said. Farley 18, Breen Phillips 0 “Hopefully we’ll get one of the 
There was no neighborly love wild card spots in the playoffs.” from Farley for Breen Phillips Cavanaugh will look to close Sunday, as the Finest shut out out their undefeated regular the still-winless Babes in an 18-season next week against Breen 0 romp. Phillips, while Lyons gets set to 
From the first play, Farley (2-face Farley with playoff hopes 
1) had control of both the offen-on the line. sive and defensive sides of the football. The Finest offense was Pasquerilla West 20, Walsh 6 particularly strong and showed Even the dreary weather much improvement from last couldn’t stop Pasquerilla West’s week. dynamic play in its win over 
“We added in a few new offen-Walsh Sunday. sive plays that we were able to Pasquerilla West players say execute,” senior wide receiver they are eager to return to post-and team captain Molly season play after a loss in the Casanova said. 2009 championship game. 
Casanova had two touch-“We won, which was good, but downs, leading her team to its didn’t really play to our poten­second win of the season. tial,” Pasquerilla West sopho-
The Babes (0-3) defense was more wide receiver Alice unable to stop Farley’s passing Yerokun said. game, with three drives result-The Purple Weasels’ (3-0) ing in touchdowns. defensive effort was their driv-
The Breen Phillips offense was ing force throughout the first also ineffective throughout the half. Pasquerilla West sopho­game, failing to put any points more defender Aoibheann on the board. Thinnes intercepted a pass from 
“Our team is justifiably disap-Walsh (0-2) senior quarterback pointed with the record, but Amy Langnecker, but the Purple we’re proud despite the adversi-Weasels failed to convert the ty we have experienced on the effort for a touchdown. field,” Babes coach Matt The majority of first half Meagher said. action took place in the final 
Meagher said this year’s team minute before halftime. After is inexperienced, numerous another interception by freshmen starting at skill posi-Pasquerilla West, senior quar­tions. terback Simone Bigi ran the ball 
“We have a very young team,” 10 yards for the first touchdown Meagher said. “We’re trying to of the game. build and in the meantime, keep Then, with only one second our spirits up and just work remaining in the first half, hard every practice.” Walsh quarterback Langnecker 
Casanova said Farley has responded to the Purple focused on improving its offense Weasel’s touchdown by connect-and has continued to work hard ing with sophomore receiver Kat as a team. Leach on a 15-yard pass to even 
“We just have to continue to the scoring. be supportive on and off the The second half was a differ-


Tuesday, September 28, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer





Sports
Tuesday, September 28, 2010 page 20 
WOMEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Quack attack 
Howard stays perfect against Pangborn 
By MEGAN GOLDEN, LUCIE 
GORDON, JOSEPH MONAR­
DO, SARAH CRIPPIN and 


JACK YUSKO 
Sports Writers 
The secondary of Howard came ready to back up the Ducks’ undefeated record, as their two-interception perform­ance was enough to bring the Ducks to a hard fought 21-7 vic­tory over Pangborn. 
The Phoxes (1-1) put their only points on the board early, as senior quarterback Gabby Tate ran for a touchdown in their first possession of the game, taking an early 7-0 lead. 
“Howard did a really fantastic job. Their defense was awe­some, and the run was the one thing that was open,” Tate said. “But passing wise, I don’t think I’ve faced a tougher defense, so hats off to them.” 
Undefeated Howard (3-0) 
MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer 

Howard senior Kayla Bishop dodges the defense in a game against Pangborn Sunday. The see PHOXES/page 18 undefeated Ducks continued their winning streak with a 21-7 win. 

ND WOMEN’S GOLF 



Freshman Nhim adds to line-up 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 

With one meet as a college athlete under her belt, fresh­man Kristina Nhim is already off to a good start. 
She began her first week­end traveling with the team to Michigan State for the Mary Fossum Invitational, where the Irish took first place. Nhim took 19th place in the tournament, already proving her abilities to hang with the competition. 
“It definitely was more intense, and the quality of teams is so much higher. People are or become much better players in college, so you definitely have to step up your game if you want to compete and win, ” Nhim said. 
For Nhim, golf began as a 
see NHIM/page 14 

ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 


Jersey auction to start for Kicks Against Breast Cancer 
their shirts off as well. Kicks Against Breast by enlisting their support to match against the Mexican
By CHRIS MASOUD 

In an effort to raise funds Cancer is an annual colle-finding a cure. Proceeds from National Team.
Sports Writer 

for Kicks Against Breast giate program dedicated to the 28 auctioned jerseys will “Our players took the initia-Cancer, the Irish will auction helping find a cure for breast go directly to the foundation. tive and wanted to make this 
After dismantling commemorative pink -and -cancer, offering support to This season’s fundraiser happen, and I hope we’ll see Cincinnati and Louisville over white jerseys to be worn dur-women living with the dis-comes on the heels of the some enthusiastic and com-the weekend with nine com-ing the final homestand of ease. highly successful jersey auc-petitive bids for these one-of­bined goals and allowing the season against Seton Hall The initiative includes a tion last spring to support the a-kind jerseys,” Irish coach none, the No. 5 Irish have on Oct. 8 and Rutgers on Oct. fundraising tournament in Camp Watcha-Wanna-Do, an Randy Waldrum told been playing their hearts out 10. Fans will be able to bid April, but it also encourages Indiana based camp dedicat-und.com. en route to a 9-1 start to the on the autographed jerseys the top collegiate programs ed to supporting children The auctions start at $50 season. through the official Notre around the nation to con -fight cancer. The squad per jersey. 
Starting Friday, Sept. 24 Dame athletics auction web-tribute by raising $1,000. raised close to $3000, as the and continuing through Oct. site at www.und.com/auc -To that end, the Irish have auctioned jerseys were worn Contact Chris Masoud at 11, they will be auctioning tions. stepped up to the challenge in an April 23 exhibition cmasoud@nd.edu 
MEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 


Duncan takes first win in dorm history 
By VICTORIA JACOBSEN, JACK HEFFERON, ANDREW GASTELUM, SAM GANS, KELSEY MANNING and ADAM LLORENS 
Sports Writers 
Duncan earned its first interhall football win in dorm history Sunday, beat­ing Knott Hall 2-0. 
“I felt like we dominated the whole game,” sophomore defensive end Chris Herlihy said. “I thought we were the better team.” 
Although the Highlanders (1-1) were unable to score on the offensive side of the ball, the stifling Duncan defense was able to shut down the passing attack from the Juggerknotts (0-2), who managed just three first downs. The Duncan defen­sive unit has now held its opponents to a combined three points in their first two games. 
The lone scoring play came in the second quarter, when Knott was forced to punt directly in front of its own end zone. The snap went high over the punter’s head and out of the end zone for a safety, giving Duncan a lead they would hold for the rest of the contest. 
Despite the fact that the Highlander offense failed to 

see HIGHLANDERS/page 14 
ND VOLLEYBALL 



Eppink gets into sophomore swing 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 

The energy the Irish bring to the volleyball court is almost con­tagious, and sophomore Hilary Eppink has definitely become part of the new epidemic in her sophomore season. 
The middle blocker is not only having fun this season but she’s also stepping up her game unlike ever before, like she did last Sunday when Notre Dame (9-5) defeated Pittsburgh 3-0. 
“I just wanted to stay aggres­sive, not get tentative, not get passive,” Eppink said. “I just wanted to really help out the team. It’s just fun out there; there’s a great energy, and I wanted to keep going.” Eppink did keep going for 12 kills 
see ENERGY/page 16 






