the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Gay alumni group to present awards 
ND grad fights ‘don’t ask, don’t tell’ policy in military, will be honored this week 
By LAURA MCCRYSTAL 
News Editor 
Lt. Col. Fehrenbach, a 1991 Notre Dame graduate and decorated Air Force pilot, is currently fighting for his rights under the military’s “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy. 
The Gay and Lesbian Alumni of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s College (GALA) will give Fehrenbach its dis­tinguished alumni award this weekend in South Bend. Liam Dacey, GALA chair and 2004 Notre Dame graduate, said GALA created the distin­guished alumni award this year to honor Notre Dame graduates who are leaders for the gay community. 
The group, which is not officially associated with the University, will present the 
award  to  Fehrenbach  at  a  
Saturday event.  
“ We  t h o u g h t  o f  a  n e w  

award this year as well to go along with the Tom Dooley Award,” Dacey said. “Here’s somebody who’s a war hero, who graduated from Notre Dame.” 
Fehrenbach graduated from Notre Dame’s Air Force ROTC. During his 19 years in the Air Force, he was deployed six times and earned nine air medals, one of which was awarded for heroism. 
In August, Fehrenbach 



‘Good neighbor guide’ distributed off campus 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
Echoing the community rela­tions and educational aspects of the student government’s beND campaign, Senior Class Council has concentrated on informing off-campus seniors how to throw smart and safe parties and avoid conflict with neighbors and police. 
In addition to a recent pres­entation by C.L. Lindsay, a panel with ResLife and NDSP and emails sent out by student government, senior class council has distributed “Good Neighbor Guides.” 
Senior Class Council presi­dent Kate Clitheroe said the pamphlets were another step in the ongoing process of help­ing seniors minimize the risks of socializing off-campus and improving community rela­tions. 
“Most of the information we already tried to synthesize in emails we sent to seniors,” Clitheroe said. “Things like keeping the noise down, put­ting the ‘no drinking under 21’ signs ... we thought those things were pertinent.” 
While the guides contained a wide range of information about off-campus living in general, Clitheroe said she thinks the tips on keeping friendly relations with neigh­bors were especially impor­tant. 
“The info that was most important to seniors were the tips for having good relation­ships with your neighbors,” she said. “We’ve talked to the police about this. The number one reason they come to a party is not because they’re driving by, but because they’ve gotten a call from a neighbor.” 
Clitheroe said she thinks the 
see GUIDE/page 3 
filed a complaint and requested a temporary restraining order in U.S. District Court because he believed he would be dis­charged from the Air Force as a result of investigations under the military’s “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy. Resulting negotiations 
see GALA/page 7 


GALA to recognize SMC sister 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
As assistant vice president for Student Affairs at Saint Mary ’s College, Sr. Mary Louise “M.L.” Gude, worked to foster tolerance for gay and lesbian students at Notre Dame. 
Gude will receive the Thomas A. Dooley award on Saturday for her service to the gay and lesbian community 
of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s from Gay and Lesbian Alumni of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s College (GALA). 
The Thomas A. Dooley award is named after a gay, former Notre Dame student who worked as a Navy doctor in Southeast Asia and contin-

see SISTER/page 4 


Puebla study abroad changed 
By KATLYN SMITH 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students studying abroad in Puebla, Mexico, will face several changes to the pro­gram. 
For the past 10 years, students enrolled in classes at Puebla’s Universidad de las Americas (UDLA), but UDLA decided to terminate its exchange agree­ment with Notre Dame this sum­mer. 
“They made a decision to become more Latin-American centric,” the Office of International Studies (OIS) Director Kathleen Opel said. “They decided that they would concentrate on Latin American students rather than North American students coming to Mexico.” 
Students currently abroad in Puebla are studying at UDLA until the exchange agreement concludes in December. During the Spring 2011 semester, stu­dents will enroll at the Universidad Iberoamericana Puebla (Ibero) while fall students will take classes at the Universidad Popular Autónoma del Estado de Puebla (UPAEP). 

While both universities are Catholic institutions, UPAEP offers its own medical school for fall students. 
“Our fall program is heavily designed for students in the pre­professional program, and that’s one of the reasons the program has grown so successfully,” Opel said. “We have great relation­ships with doctors and hospi­
see PUEBLA/page 7 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Students assist Congressional campaign page 5  Socially conscious TV page 12  Men’s soccer page 24  Viewpoint page 10 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 
024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Molly Madden Chris Masood Megan Doyle Michael Todisco Caitlin Housley Andrew Gastelum 
Graphics Scene 
Brandon Keelean Courtney Cox 
Photo Viewpoint 
Suzanna Pratt Patricia Fernandez 
THE HOT SEAT: ONE PERSON, FIVE QUESTIONS, INFINITE POSSIBILITIES 
What has been your greatest moment in volleyball? Puente: This may be blasphemous if my coach hears it, but my greatest moment in volleyball was last weekend when my front row player forgot to sub for me when I rotated to the front so I got to be a hitter for one point. It was one of my happiest (accidental) moments on the court! 


What is your sports career goal? Puente: Well there's no professional 
Angela Puente league in America, and the beach tour just got cancelled so my volleyball career 
senior 
is going to be over in 3 months. But 
libero 
we're going out with a Big East title and a
volleyball 
spot in the NCAA sweet 16! 



Know someone who should be in the hot seat? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
If you weren't playing volleyball, what sport would you play? Puente: I played softball all through high school along with volleyball, so if I didn't play volleyball still I'd probably stick with softball. But I also love tennis so I'd probably pick that up too. 
Who is your favorite Notre Dame foot­ball player? Puente: I don’t think I can say just one person is my favorite ... I'd have to give a shout out to WOPU. 
What teammate of yours is the loud­est on the court? Puente: Definitely [sophomore libero] Christina Theofilos. 

COURTNEY ECKERLE/The Observer Junior Megan Dempsey takes a study break with friends to watch NDtv in Reignbeaux Lounge in Le Mans Hall. NDtv had its fall premiere Wednesday night at 10 p.m. 
OFFBEAT 
Drunk man drives drunk woman to station 
CLAWSON, Mich. — Police said a 40-year-old man faces drunk driving charges after he drove an intoxicated woman to the police station. Police said Donald Chamberlain, from Clawson, drove his 35­year-old neighbor to the station Monday to answer questions about an assault involving her husband the previous day. 
The Macomb Daily of Mount Clemens reported the woman left the station with Chamberlain after telling officers she was too drunk to answer questions. 
Police said a patrol offi­cer stopped the vehicle for having a cracked wind­shield. Police said Chamberlain’s blood-alco­hol level was 0.13 percent. Michigan’s legal limit is 0.08. 
Chamberlain pleaded not guilty Tuesday and was released on personal bond following his arraignment in Troy district court. Authorities did not know if he had a lawyer. 
The woman was treated at a hospital for alcohol detoxification. 
Chamberlain faces a Nov. 3 pretrial. 
District judge hands out surprise in acorns 
HARRISBURG, Pa. — Police said a district judge from Intercourse, Pa., hid condoms inside acorns and handed them out to women in the state Capitol complex last week. A sum­mary charge of disorderly conduct was filed Tuesday against Isaac H. Stoltzfus, who presides over low-level cases as a district judge in Lancaster County. 
The citation from Capitol Police said the 58-year-old jurist gave the acorns to unsuspecting women, who were offended when they discovered the contents. 
Stoltzfus’ office referred questions to defense attor­ney Heidi Eakin, who did-n’t immediately return a phone message Wednesday. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Game day Sunday 
IN BRIEF 
The Center for Philosophy of Religion is hosting its ninth annual Plantinga Fellow Lecture today from 3 p.m. until 5 p.m. The lecture is entitled “God and Evil: A philosophical inquiry.” Discussion and lecture to follow. Students, faculty and staff welcome. Admission is free. 
Pomerium, a 14-voice a cap­pella ensemble will perform at 7 
p.m. tonight in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center.  Cost is $15 for students and $30 regu­lar. 
Lyons Hall will be hosting its annual 5K Mara Fox Run tomorrow at 10 a.m. Cost to register is $15 and proceeds go to the Mara Fox Memorial Scholarship. Registration begins at 9 a.m. in front of Lyons. 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore in partnership with Anthony Travel will host The Race to New York contest all day tomorrow. Tasks and clues will take participants all over campus. Benefits go to United Way. Entry forms availiable on www.hammesraceto.com. 
WSND-FM will present a live radio drama of Edgar Allen Poe’s “The Cask of Amontillado” Sunday at 6 p.m. in 140 DeBartolo Hall. The event is free. 
Jill Godmilow will screen her first and last films: the Academy Award-nominated documen­tary “Antonia: A Portrait of the Woman,” and “What Farocki Taught” tomorrow at 7 p.m. The movie will be screened in DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The event is free. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

monday tuesday 

CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
LOW 66 LOW 47 LOW 36 LOW 39 LOW 39 LOW 43 
have a great relationship with 
them now.” 


Guide 

Liederbach contacted other continued from page 1 neighbors as well, whom he 
believes were initially hesitant guides contributed to the due to the reputation left by recent drop in citations and students of years past. arrests for underage drinking. “They’ve been very receptive 
“I would say it’s definitely a since then,” he said. “I think combination of the guides with students in the past were real­
ema il s  a n d  ly crazy.”  
m o s t  i mpor- “ I  thi nk  the y  
tantly word of m o ut h ,” s he said. “[Seniors] have act ual ly  “I’ve actually gone over to my neighbors and had long  h ad judged us based on previous s t u d e n t s , ” L i e d e r b a c h ’ s  
be en  doin g  conversations with  h o u s e m a t e ,  
those things. ... We’ve been to parties where pe o p le ha ve told us they’ve talked to their neighbors.” One such stu­ them. Try to get to know them, fnd common ground. ... They’ll be more willing to work with you.”  James Uricheck, said. Liederbach said he would encour­age othe r stu-dent s l iving of f ca mpus t o con-tact their neigh­ 
de nt  is  Ke n t  bors  if  the y  
Liederbach, a junior living off campus. While  Kent Liederback junior  haven’t done so already. “Be proactive,  
Liederbach did  tell them ahead  
not  reach out  of time if there’s  

to his neighbors until after he going to be a party. ... Make ran into problems, he said sure they have your number, doing so made say ‘If there is a all the differ -problem I’d 
“I think they judged
ence in his appreciate you relationship us based on previous calling me before with them. students.” you call the 
“We had a cops,’” Liderbach party that got said. “I’ve actual-
James Uricheck
way too loud, ly gone over to so I had to go senior my neighbors over and apolo-and had long gize, I gave conversations them a name and number. ... with them. Try to get to know They’re okay with giving me a them, find common ground. second chance,” Liederbach ...They’ll be more willing to said. “A lot of it is just taking work with you.” responsibility for what hap­pened and for what students Contact John Cameron at are doing at our parties. ... We jcamero2@nd.edu 

needs at the University. The Network Initiative, one of the 

Sister 
first programs implemented, continued from page 1 was designed to promote 
understanding and facilitate ued as a humanitarian doctor dialogue in the Notre Dame in Laos after his dismissal community. from the Navy, according to “I met quite a few students GALA’s website. in the late 90s and early part 
The award is given to indi-of this decade through that viduals who use their faith to program,” Gude said. advance the rights of The standing committee is American gays now the Core and lesbians. Council, which 
Growing up in hosts events Cleveland as such as the oldest of CommUnity 
“Catholic theology 
five children, and Solidarity Gude said she is founded on Sunday in sup-always knew marriage, and port of the she had a reli-Lesbian, Gay, 
sexual acts should 
gious vocation. Bisexual, 
“I wanted to take place in a Transgender be a sister of marriage. On the (LGBT) com ­Holy Cross munity. 
other hand, LGBT 
because my “Catholic the­mother’s family deserve not just ology is found-
had connec -tolerance, but our ed on mar ­tions to Notre riage, and sex-
respect and 
Dame and Saint ual acts should Mary ’s,” Gude acceptance.” take place in a said. marriage,” 
Gude came to Sr. Mary Louise Gude Gude said. “On Notre Dame in the other hand, 
assistance vice president
1983 and LGBT deserve 
SMC Student Affairs 
remained at the not just toler-University for ance, but our 23 years, until respect and she became the acceptance.” vice president She also said for Mission at Saint Mary’s the goals of the standing College in 2006. She started committee and Core Council as an assistant rector in are not based on activism. Breen Phillips Hall and even-“We were not activists. We tually became an assistant just want people to be vice president for student accepted for who they were,” affairs in 1998. she said. 
In 1996, Gude helped found the standing committee on Contact Anna Boarini at gay and lesbian student aboari01@saintmarys.edu 






Students help gain votes 
Notre Dame interns participate in current Congressional campaigns 
By SAM STRYER 
News Writer 
On Nov. 2, voters in the 2nd District of Indiana will go to the polls to elect cur­rent representative, Democrat Joe Donnelly, or Republican Jackie Walorski to be their congressional rep­resenta ­tive. Over the next few weeks leading up to Election Day, sev­eral Notre Dame stu­dents who are 

Nejedly
interning with either of the congres­sional campaigns may approach Indiana residents and try to sway them to one candidate or another. 
One such intern for Donnelly, junior Conor Bolich, said his Notre Dame education armed him with skills that have proven crit­ical in his time working with the campaign. 
“I feel very prepared working on the campaign,” he said. “Notre Dame has done a really good job with communicating and net ­working skills that are very important in politics.” 
Senior Eunice Ikene, also of the Donnelly campaign, said her classroom experi­ences have challenged her to sharpen her political knowledge. This in turn benefited her work with the campaign. 
“Notre Dame has helped with being up to date, such as when a voter asks about health care and small busi­nesses,” she said. “It is not specifically in the curricu­lum, but when it comes up in class you want to know what is going on.” 
Senior Charlie Nejedly is working with Walorski ’s campaign. He said he spends his time interacting with voters over the tele­phone and in person. 
“I do phone calls for Jackie Walorski and more broadly the Indiana Republican Party, and I go door to door for Jackie around South Bend and Mishawaka,” he said. 
Ikene and Bolich said they spend most of their time making phone calls and canvassing as well. Bolich said these pursuits are criti ­cal in under­standing what vot­ers expect from their candi­dates. 
“Just going out 

Bolich 
and lis ­tening to what voters have to say has been so impor­tant. Canvassing allows you to understand what the voters have to say, ” he said. 
Ikene said communication is crucial in finding out what voters have to say about the campaigns as well. 
“One of my primary duties is making calls to voters who have leaned Democrat,” she said. “You can ask if there are any issues they have and a lot of the time voters complain about negative ads.” 
Ikene said her interest in these aspects of campaign­ing were the driving force behind her decision to work on a congressional campaign this fall. 
“I took a class last semes­ter on campaign strategy that focused on polariza­tion and negative ads,” she said. “I wanted to see how it applied to a smaller cam­paign in north Indiana.” 
Nejedly said previous political experience and his interest in the democratic process sparked his inspi­ration for working on the Walorski campaign. 
“I worked at a political action committee this sum­mer and I thought that get­ting campaign experience in the field would be fun,” he said. “Those who volun­teer represent the hard work of democracy. Things like getting out the vote, regular people might not do, but it is important for the democratic process.” 
Ikene said one thing that surprised her in her time with the campaign was the lack of basic political knowl­edge in some vot­ers. 
“I find it interest ­ing that some peo­ple have no idea what is 

Ikene 
going on. These are people who are registered voters, who do not even know the opposing candidate,” she said. “The fact that you don ’t know who is running, that is odd.” 
Ikene also said that for the most part, voters she has personally interacted with have been receptive and polite. However, she said she had one bad expe­rience with a man at one household in Granger. 
“This guy took forever to get to the door. When he did, he didn’t even look at me. His dog was yapping and I was scared that it was going to attack me,” she said. “After I was done, he told me he was Republican and to not waste his time.” 
Nejedly said working on this election has reminded him of the responsibility Indiana voters are tasked with this November. 
“Just staying updated on these midterm elections in general is important for our economy especially in a district like ours. What happens now could mean a job or not for some peo ­ple,” he said. “It forces me to stay updated on the cur­rent events.” 

Contact Sam Stryer at sstryke1@nd.edu 


Students build website for athlete health advice 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
About one year ago, brothers Chris and Will Salvi and broth­ers Matt and Jack Berg began working on their athletic devel­opment website, liftedathletics.com. 
The website was designed to give athletes advice on nutri­tion, workouts and overall health and fitness. 
Chris Salvi and Matt Berg are both in their junior year at Notre Dame. Will Salvi, who also attends Notre Dame, and Jack Berg, who attends University of Illinois, are sopho­mores. All of the boys are from a suburb of Chicago and have been friends since their youth. 
In high school, the boys were heavily involved in sports and worked out at the same gym. They picked up many tips throughout the years and want­ed to share this advice with oth­ers. 
“We’re both into health and fitness and we wanted to put that information out there for people to find and not have to search around a bunch of sites,” Chris said about himself and Matt. 
In the nutrition section, the website contains information such as what foods do certain things for your body and recom­mended foods and supplements for before and after working out. 
“Say you’re an athlete and you want to know what protein to buy, we have a section that recommends protein,” Matt said. “We can tell you what not to waste your money on.” 
The site contains a weight lift­ing guide, which has videos and picture descriptions that shows how to properly lift and exer­cise, as well as specific work­outs for different parts of the body. 
Matt Berg, who played foot­ball as a freshman for another college, and Chris Salvi, who plays for Notre Dame, said although some of the workout guide they found through research, most comes from their personal experience. 
“A lot of things from football we implement into helpful things for the site,” Chris Salvi said. “And I definitely use a lot of information from it. If I feel it should be put on then I find it beneficial also.” 
Although their main personal experiences have involved the game of football, lifeandathlet­ics.com also has sections dedi­cated to other sports such as baseball and basketball. 
“We get a lot of information from other athletes as well,” Matt Berg said. “We’ll talk to track runners, baseball players, and we’ll see what works for them.” 
Another major part of the site is supplement distribution. The boys are associates for network marketing companies and sell products such as multivitamins, optimizers and meal replace­ments. 
One company, Asea, has a brand new product that is sup­posed to help a person’s immune system to function on all cylinders, helps with recov­ery, and lowers the heart rate. 
“We’re looking to increase our distribution of supplements,” Chris Salvi said. “We have a good flow right now of giving out and selling to people.” 
Although there is already a wealth of information on the site, it is still developing, Chris Salvi said. 
“It’s a work in progress,” Chris Salvi said about lifean­dathletics.com. “It’s constantly being updated, we work on it pretty much every day.” 
Matt Berg said the boys have mainly used the Internet for exposure so far but the response they have received has been positive. 
“We’ve only had an increase in hits,” Chris Salvi said. “There’s been a constant growth every month since we started.” 
That growth comes in part from non-athletes, Matt Berg said. He believe the website has a wide range of fitness and nutritional information that can be used by anyone. 
“Basically, anyone who’s into fitness,” Matt Berg said, “you should come here.” 

Contact Melissa Flanagan at melissa.a.fanagan.45@nd.edu 




SMC Straight and Gay Alliance hosts Ally Week 
they can see,” she said. “[They chance to sign a pledge to coming out for gay students is “The Laramie Project.” 
By ALICIA SMITH 
can see] that there are people become an ally. Over 150 stu-possible,” Javors said. For Friday, the final day of 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
on campus who dents signed the Borja said another goal of Ally week, SAGA encourages care about pledge, which Ally week was to educate all allies to wear their pins, Saint Mary’s College Straight them, who want was displayed women. On Tuesday, students stickers and T-shirts that were 
“It’s important to 
And Gay Alliance (SAGA) to know that on a bulletin were offered an open house distributed throughout the showed appreciation for the they are safe.” LGBT students board outside of for the Women’s Resource events of Ally Week, Borja allies of the Lesbian, Gay, Additionally, because it’s support the Noble Room, a place designed as a said. Bisexual and Transgender Borja said Ally Family Dining safety space on campus. Borja said SAGA plans to 
that they can see. 
(LGBT) community by hosting Week is a way Hall throughout On Wednesday, discussion offer several other events Ally Week, which began for all students [They can see] that the week. titled “I’m an Ally. I’m out throughout the academic year Monday. to come togeth-there are people on “For me, as a too!” was held in the Student including National Coming Out 
The second annual Ally er and provide gay student, it’s Center Lounge and included Day on Oct. 11. 
campus who care
Week was dedicated to the encouragement for me to show stories from a professor and students who support mem-for their fellow about them, who appreciation for student allies. Contact Alicia Smith at bers of the LGBT community students. want to know they those who Thursday SAGA presented asmith01@saintmarys.edu and SAGA offered different “For straight enabled me to 
are safe.” 
events each day. The first Ally students, it’s a come out.” Week took place during the way for them to Laurel Javors, a Spring 2010 semester at the show support, Karen Borga senior at the College. in maybe other president College said. 
The week offered students a ways that they Javors said 
Straight and Gay Alliance 
chance to learn how to get haven’t been Ally Week involved and show their able to before, allows LGBT understanding for members of or might not know how to students to feel more comfort-the LGBT community, Karen show that support,” she said. able on campus and express Borga, president of SAGA said. A table was set up in the gratitude to those who are 
“It’s important to LGBT stu-Student Center Atrium on allies. dents because it’s support that Monday offering students a “Without allies, I don’t think 


Beverly Tatum spoke on race at SMC 
By BRIANNE CARROLL 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s students gath­ered in O’Laughlin auditorium Thursday to hear Beverly Daniel Tatum, author of “Why Are All the Black Kids Sitting Together in the Cafeteria?” deliver her keynote speech. 
Tatum, president of 
Sp ell man College, a traditionally black all ­women’s col­lege in Atlanta, spe­cializes in racial educa­tion and has devoted her life to empowering women to live in intercul ­tural solidari­ty with one another. The Center for Wom en’s Intercultural Leadership committe e has been preparing for 
“I think it’s important for our students as current and future leaders to see a role model. Having this fantastic role model helps us understand the complexities of cultural identities” 
Mana Derakhshani associate director Center for Women’s Intercultural Leadership 

Tatum’s first visit to Saint Mary’s College since February. 
Mana Derakhshani, associ­ate director of the Center for Women’s Intercultural Leadership and a professor at Saint Mary’s College, said she was excited for Tatum’s visit to the College. 
“I think it’s important for our students as current and future leaders to see a role model,” Derakhshani said. “Having this fantastic role model helps us understand the complexities of cultural identi­ties.” 
Derakhshani said there has been excitement on campus from those who are familiar with Tatum’s work. 
“We chose her because she interracial collaboration and exemplifies in many ways the respect has empowered larger themes of the confer-women to act as heroes, or as ence,” Derakhshani said. “The Tatum describes them, conference is interdisciplinary, “SHEroes,” in their communi­and explores the intersection ties. Tatum ended her speech of international, intercultural, with an inspirational quote, and multicultural education as articulating the essential role well as women’s studies and of women leaders. leadership development.” “This is our promise. We will 
College President Dr. Carol not be the ones to break the Ann Mooney introduced Tatum chain,” Tatum said. 
respect. Saint before she deliv­ered her speech. In her 45-minute Contact Brianne Carroll at speech, Tatum bcarro01@saintmarys.edu touched on the impact of race and racial develop ­ment in the United States. Tatum dis­cussed topics of identity affirma­tion, community building, and leadership cultiva­tion among mem­bers of the global community. She emphasized the responsibility cur­rent and future women leaders have to act and serve as catalysts 
of interracial acceptance and 
Mary’s junior 
Alexandra Zellner said she was glad Tatum was able to visit the College. 
“I was looking forward to gaining a perspective and knowledge on how I can better my role as a woman of inter-cultural leadership,” Zellner said. “I really enjoyed her pos­itive outlook and explanation of why some of society’s chaos and fear has erupted and how, as educated women, we all have the power and moral obligation to become builders to work in paving the road that will make for a better and more inclusive world.” 
For years, Tatum’s efforts of 

ing him was very helpful in that it 
will help to make things safer.” 
Puebla 
According to Opel, UDLA can-continued from page 1 celed the homestay program in which students live with host tals.” families two weeks before the 
Opel visited Puebla twice last Fall 2010 semester began. OIS year with the former director of had already given students the OIS and said students will devel-names of the host families. op at both universities. “It was a real surprise to us 
“We both felt very comfortable because during our visit in late that we were going to have a spring, we specially addressed good opportunity for our students would we finish out the agree-to expand in different ways at ment with the host families these universities,” she said. because that was part of the 
Opel said if there were con-agreement, and they said ‘oh, yes cerns about student safety, espe-no problem,’” Opel said. “Then cially as drug-related violence two weeks before the students escalates in Mexico, OIS would were supposed to leave, they told not hesitate to suspend the us it had been canceled without Puebla program. much explanation.” 
“If at any time, we should think As a result, students currently it’s no longer safe, and conditions in Puebla are living in UDLA’s cause us pause, then we will do dormitories, but students in the 
as  we’ve  done  spring will live  
with Monterrey  with host families  
and that is sus­pend the pro­gram,” she said. OIS Associate Director Anne  “We both felt very comfortable that we were going to have a good opportunity for  within walking distance to Ibero. Senior Mike Taylor studied abroad in Puebla  
Hayes said she receives updates on violence in Mexico daily. The  our students to expand in different ways at these  last spring and said that he val­ued the homestay program.  
capture of a drug cartel leader  universities.”  “I thought that was the most  
known as El Grande in Puebla  Kathleen Opel  crucial part of my time in Mexico,”  
on Sept. 12 was  director  Taylor said. “For  
welcome news to  Offce of International  the students to be  
those at OIS. “I was immedi- Studies  in the dorms and not with the fam­ 
ately  in  touch  ilies this semes­ 
with our on-site  ter, I think they  

coordinator, and she sent me the are going to just have an entirely link to the local news,” Hayes different semester.” said. “Puebla has, in the past, not Taylor said he believes the had the drug violence, so it was a housing change will result in stu­big surprise when he was caught dents losing on interacting with there, but from everything I’ve the Mexican people. read, they really feel that captur-“I don’t know if they will appre-ciate their time in Mexico as much because they are not get­ting a chance to live with the most personal part of Mexico itself which are the families that make up Mexico,” he said. 

Taylor said his host mother Laura Gomez was a second mom. 
“She’s just an active part of your life,” Taylor said. “She did everything she could to make sure that I fit in and that I had all my needs taken care of, and I couldn’t ask for anything more.” 
Senior Julia McCaw studied abroad in Puebla last fall at UDLA, but said she recognized UPAEP’s welcome when she attended a conference at the uni­versity. 
“They were really accepting and were really excited to tell us about what they were about and their programs a little bit more than UDLA had been,” she said. “I think it was because UDLA was such an international school already that we were not really special there, which was good in some ways, and then in other ways, we didn’t really feel like we were getting that attention.” 
Overall, Taylor said his time in Puebla changed his life. 
“To be surrounded in a country where there are all these people and no one speaks your lan­guage, you just gain such a per­spective on the world by leaving America and by realizing what’s beyond your country’s borders,” he said. 
Contact Katlyn Smith at ksmith33@nd.edu 
result of having members of to commit not only the mini-ordered Witt’s reinstatement friends no matter what hap-
the military “who demon -mum four years of service in into the Air Force Sept. 24 pens,” he said. “Gosh, I think 
strate a propensity or intent the Air Force required by after a discharge based on I’ve heard from at least half continued from page 1 to engage in homosexual ROTC, but his entire career. “don’t ask, don’t tell,” will my class from Air Force 
acts.” During his senior year, he help his argument, he said. ROTC.” reached a stipulation agree-Fehrenbach will be eligible was corps commander of the He became friends with Witt Fehrenbach said he met ment, which Fehrenbach said to retire from the Air Force in University’s Air Force ROTC because their cases are inter-Dacey and learned more requires the Air Force to noti-September 2011, but if he is and was ranked as a cadet twined, and was present for about GALA in March at an fy a judge of an intention to discharged he colonel, the high-the decision event for the discharge him. will not earn est rank in the in her case Servicemembers 
The Air Force began to r e t i r e m e n t ROTC program. last week. Legal Defense investigate Fehrenbach’s con-benefits. “I never did this for He worked as Fehrenbach Network, a non-


GALA 
“I think not just Notre
duct under “don’t ask, don’t He said he me ... my goal was an information said Witt profit group rep-tell” in 2008, after a civilian entered the m a n a g e m e n t inspired him Dame students, but resenting gays in 
always to help others. 
accused Fehrenbach of sexual Air Force’s officer after his to pursue the public in general the military, assault. ROTC pro -So I’ll do whatever it graduation from legal action which is serving 
doesn’t have a full 
In order to clear his name gram as a takes, whether it’s Notre Dame in his own as co-counsel in of the allegation, Fehrenbach f r e s h m a n before going to situation. In understanding of his case. He said 
legal, whether it’s 
said he admitted to conduct because the flight school to addition, he what this law is and he looks forward that violated “don’t ask, don’t Air Force public opinion, become a fighter has received to returning to 
how it is in practice.” 
tell.” would pay for whether it’s political. pilot. Since that encourage -South Bend this “I only made those state-his education time, he has ment from weekend for the 
I’ll do whatever it 
ments to clear my name,” he and fulfill his flown 88 combat many mem -Lt. Col. Victor GALA event 
takes to see [‘don’t 
said. “The other option was to dream of missions in Iraq, bers of the Fehrenbach because it has lie and that wasn’t an attending ask, don’t tell] Kosovo and Notre Dame been a year since 
alumnus
option.” Notre Dame. Afghanistan dur-community. he was last on 
repealed.” 
Fehrenbach has never pub-“I was prob-ing his six When he campus. licly said he is gay, although ably just like deployments. began to look “I don’t feel the law allows the military to any young, Lt. Col. Victor When he was for a lawyer, deserving, but investigate based on either a Catholic kid Fehrenbach notified of the several legal firms contacted I’m humbled, I’m honored,” statement or conduct. growing up — alumnus Air Force’s inves-him with an interest in his Fehrenbach said about 
Fehrenbach’s case, which you watch tigation in 2008, case. He chose M. Andrew receiving GALA’s first distin­he said would not reach a Notre Dame Fehernbach said Woodmansee, who earned guished alumni award. trial for 18 to 24 months, f o o t b a l l , ” he found another both his bachelor’s and law Fehrenbach will also partic­contains arguments both for Fehrenbach said. “I had job and prepared to leave the degrees from Notre Dame, in ipate in a panel discussion his personal circumstance always wanted to go there.” military. He decided, however, part due to his ties to the Saturday at the Notre Dame and against “don’t ask, don’t The summer between his to argue his case because he University. Law School about “don’t ask, tell” as a whole. freshman and sophomore said he realized he could “One of the things I liked don’t tell.” He said he hopes it 
“Actually, my case … is an years at Notre Dame, form a strong argument. about that was I think I know will provide a better under­as-apply challenge,” he said. Fehrenbach said he consid-“I never did this for me … and understand where Notre standing of this military poli­“But we also have constitu-ered leaving the ROTC pro-my goal was always to help Dame people come from and cy. tional arguments as well, as gram and finding another others,” Fehrenbach said. “So what their values are,” “I think not just Notre Dame declaring it unconstitutional means of paying tuition. But a I’ll do whatever it takes, Fehrenbach said. “So that students, but the public in across the board.” speech by Sen. John McCain whether it’s legal, whether part of it was a factor since I general doesn’t have a full 
Fehrenbach’s legal team is at the Republican National it’s public opinion, whether sort of knew the type of man understanding of what this arguing that his discharge Convention about his own it’s political. I’ll do whatever he was.” law is and how it is in prac­would cause him irreparable experience in the military and it takes to see [‘don’t ask, Fehrenbach also said many tice,” Fehrenbach said. “In harm. as a prisoner of war changed don’t tell’] repealed.” of his friends from Notre other words, I guess if you 
Their argument also chal-his opinion. Fehrenbach said many legal Dame have contacted him to see something wrong, you lenges the Air Force’s ability “That speech just changed experts have told him his express their support. should take every opportunity to prove that Fehrenbach’s my life,” he said. “From that case has the potential to “I found that the friends I you’re given to do something presence in a military unit moment on I just felt this reach the U.S. Supreme met there, even if you don’t about it.” creates an “unacceptable overwhelming commitment to Court. The precedent set by see them for five years, it just risk,” which the policy, serve my country.” Maj. Margaret Witt’s case, in picks up again. … Those Contact Laura McCrystal at passed in 1993, states is a Fehrenbach said he decided which a U.S. District Court friends are always your lmccryst@nd.edu 
Massive storms blamed for 4 deaths on east coast 

Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C. — A massive rainstorm drenched the East Coast from the Carolinas to Maine on Thursday, causing at least four deaths, flooding roads and wash­ing away months of dry weather. 
The worst of the rain fell in North Carolina, where Jacksonville picked up 12 inches 
— nearly a quarter of its typical annual rainfall — in the six hours. Four people, including two chil­dren, were killed when the sport utility vehicle they were traveling in skidded off a rain-slicked high­way and tumbled into a ditch filled with water, North Carolina troopers said. 
The rain was part of a system moving ahead of the remnants of Tropical Storm Nicole, which dis­sipated over the Straits of Florida on Wednesday. Much of the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast were start­ing to move into a drought after the dry summer, and the fall storm provided several inches of much-needed rain. 
In Walpole, N.H., Erin Bickford said the deluge was a welcome sight for her eight acres of vegeta­bles. She said she hoped the mois­ture also would recharge wells that went dry in the town. 
“We had almost no rain at all. Often, we could see it raining across the river, but it didn’t come here. It was just dust. Even if it did rain, it would be a tiny bit, maybe half an inch,” she said. 
North Carolina Highway Patrol Trooper Gary Edwards said troopers initially reported five people were killed in the crash because two children, 3-year-old twins, did not have a pulse when emergency workers arrived on scene. However, rescuers were able to revive them and they were taken to a hospital alive. One of the twins later died, a news release from the patrol said. 
Edwards said the family of five from Atlanta was traveling west­bound on U.S. 64 east of Creswell around 12:20 p.m. when their Jeep Cherokee hit a patch of standing water, hydroplaned and skidded off the highway into the ditch. 
Creswell is approximately 145 miles east of Raleigh. 
The four killed were identified as the driver, Daniel Alvarez, 25; his wife, Natalie Owens, 26; Zacharia Alvarez, 3; and Ariela Alvarez, 1. Zacharia's twin, Ezekiel, was taken to a hospital in Greenville, N.C. 
Crews throughout the northeast worked to pull fallen leaves from storm drains. Schools in North Carolina were closed and some farther north planned to cancel classes Friday so students would-n't have to travel on flooded roads. Baltimore Gas and Electric says approximately 40,000 of its Maryland customers have lost power. 
Josh Barnello, 12, took advan­tage of his day off to take a look at a pond that overflowed its banks in Carolina Beach. 
“Someone was paddling a canoe down the street earlier,” said Barnello, a budding meteor­ologist who used a wind speed gauge he got for Christmas to record gusts of 53 mph near his house. 
Forecasters expected those heavy winds to spread up the coast, possibly toppling trees and power lines made unstable by the saturated ground. 
The winds also were churning up big waves that were eating away at a “living shoreline” of rocks, sand and grasses built this year on the western shore of the Chesapeake Bay in Maryland, said Bob Gilbert from his water­front home in Churchton, about 10 miles south of Annapolis. 
“There's not a boat in sight,” Gilbert said. “The waves are real­ly choppy and nasty-looking.” 
The rain caused several other wrecks Thursday, including a crash between two transit buses in Maryland that left 26 people hurt. 
Standing waters and fallen limbs on tracks slowed several Amtrak trains, while some Northeast airports reported flight delays of up to three hours. Much of eastern Pennsylvania was under flood warnings as storms could bring as much as 6 inches of rain before leaving the area on Friday and parts of Virginia had 7 inches. 



AP Raphael Golb, right, shown with attorney Ron Kuby on Sept. 27 in New York. Glob is on trial for online impersonation and harassment. 
Lawyer convicted in Sea Scrolls case 

Associated Press 
NEW YORK — A scholar’s son was convicted Thursday of using online aliases to harass and discredit his father’s detractors in a heated academ­ic debate over the origins of the Dead Sea Scrolls. 
A Manhattan jury found Raphael Golb guilty of about 30 counts against him, includ­ing identity theft, forgery and harassment. He was acquitted of one count of criminal imper­sonation. 
Golb didn’t react as he heard the verdict in the unusual criminal trial over claims of Internet impersonation — even more unusual because of its arcane subject. He said outside court he wasn’t surprised by the verdict, because he felt the judge’s instructions to the jury were biased. He planned to appeal. As he sat on a bench, he said: “I’m stoic.” 
“I’m looking forward to the appeal,” he said. “But not with joy, just because that is what happens next.” 
Prosecutors said Golb, 50, used fake e-mail accounts and wrote blog posts under assumed names to take his father’s side in an obscure but sharp-elbowed scholarly dis­pute over the scrolls’ origins. Golb acknowledged on the stand that he crafted the e­mails and blog posts, but said the writings amounted to aca­demic whistle-blowing and blogosphere banter — not crime. He said he was using irony, satire and parody to expose a plagiarist. 
Defense Attorney Ron Kuby said the case was a clear viola­tion of the First Amendment. 
“Today what happened was the District Attorney of New York County and the trial court made hurting somebody’s feel­ings a criminal act,” he said. “And in New York, hurting people’s feelings or being annoying is not a crime, we call that Monday.” 
The jury deliberated about five hours. Golb was acquitted of impersonating one scholar, but convicted of identity theft, harassment and criminal impersonation of Dr. Lawrence Schiffman, a longtime rival of his father’s whom he said pla­giarized research and was never punished. Schiffman took the case to authorities. 
Golb’s father and Schiffman, who is chairman of New York University’s Skirball Department of Hebrew and Judaic Studies have long dis­agreed on the origins of the texts. Schiffman says they were assembled by a sect known as the Essenes. Norman Golb, a University of Chicago professor, believes the writings to be the work of a range of Jewish groups and communi­ties. 
Scholars are split on the debate; there are supporters of both arguments. 
Raphael Golb, a linguistics scholar and lawyer with degrees from Oberlin College, Harvard University and NYU, said he was angry the plagia­rism accusations were never brought to light and that his father’s theory was being smeared online. 
Golb created an account under Schiffman’s name and sent messages from it to Schiffman’s students and col­leagues. They pointed to blog posts about the plagiarism allegation and asked the recip­ients to help keep it quiet. “This is my career at stake,” some of the e-mails said. 
The blog posts, too, were Raphael Golb’s work under other names, prosecutors said. They said he also opened up e­mail accounts in the names of other scholars of the Dead Sea Scrolls. 
Schiffman denies copying Norman Golb’s work and says he’s never had a personal problem with the Chicago his­torian. 
He said in a statement Thursday that he was appre­ciative of the work on the case. 
“Let us hope that the field of Dead Sea Scrolls research can get back to its real business — interpreting the ancient scrolls and explaining their signifi­cance for the history of Judaism and the background of early Christianity,” he said. 
The Observer 
V ew po  n t
page 10 Friday, October 1, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Kid’s Kingdom 
When I was a little girl, I used to pester my mother to take me to Kid’s Kingdom. 
Located not far from this very campus, Kid’s Kingdom is the playground of all playgrounds. In fact, most who grew up locally in the 
1980s and 90s will swear it’s a rite of passage. Not in the middle of Nowhere, Indiana, I hear you say. Impossible. 
Well, Kid’s Kingdom is a cas­

tle. It has turrets Amanda Gray and hidden rooms, an 
Assistant 
amphitheatre and 
News Editor 
tire swings. If memory serves me right, there are four separate slides and every type of playground equipment possible. There’s even a bull made from recycled tires that you can ride. Seriously, this place rocks. 
Anyway, some of my best childhood memories involve this playground Mecca, running until I was tired out and inevitably falling asleep in the car on the way home. I was obsessed when I was little. I’d go there all the time in the spring and summer. I’d even ask to go in the fall, trying to soak up enough joy to last me through the winter. 
I’m not sure why exactly, but I went without thinking about Kid’s Kingdom for about 10 years. School became harder, puberty hit, boys lost their cooties but gained licenses. It wasn’t until high school that memory drifted back to those days of innocence and fun. 
My group of best girlfriends and I were talking one day — during a slumber party, of course, after talking about boys but before painting our toes — about what we missed most about being kids. Someone brought up Kid’s Kingdom, although memory fails me now who. 
We all paused, recalling the wide-eyed wonder each of us experienced during blue, cloudless summer days. 
We made a vow, then. We’d go there for Maria’s birthday, which was coming up, if only just for a few minutes, to see if it still held the fantasy we all could instantly recall. We’d bring a camera, just for kicks. 
That was August of 2007 — Maria’s 18th birthday. I had to go check Facebook to see if it has really been 4 years. 
We had the time of our lives — which sounds really dorky now. We ran around. We got sweaty and dirty. We took goofy photographs and laughed until it hurt. 
We reclaimed our childhood, in a way. 
We go back every summer now, always for Maria’s birthday. We normally go to dinner first and maybe catch a movie. We like to get there just before sunset because it’s cooled off a bit but we can still get some good photographs. We call it our “yearly photo shoot,” but I’m pretty sure that’s just an excuse to head over there. As we grow older, we feel the need to reconnect with the past and to recon­nect with each other. We’re all at differ­ent schools, except for Maria and me. With classes and other activities, we rarely get to see each other all together. Kid’s Kingdom is a way to hold onto the memories despite the distance and the growing responsibilities. 
We may have to grow up eventually, but not quite yet. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Molly Madden at agray3@nd.edu 

Students lack winning tradition 
The tradition of Notre Dame football is on full display to anyone who walks around Notre Dame Stadium. Each gate is named for a championship-winning coach, whose likeness is etched in stone at his particular entrance. 
The Knute Rockne gate, which leads to the tunnel, displays even more winning tradition: the banners from each of Notre Dame’s 11 national championships. 
The last of those championships? It was January, 1989 — before a vast majority of current students were born. 
The last winning season? It was 2006 — before all but those undergrads in five-year programs had matriculated. 
Students live and die by the Irish for four short years. In those undergraduate years, each and every day 
throughout the fall, students talk about Notre 
whenever Notre Dame reeled off a long winning Dame football. No other topic surfaces day in, day streak. out. The intoxicated mistakes of the weekend only Remember the joy you felt beating USC or Navy linger in conversation until Sunday night. The with ease. pressures of an Orgo exam disperse one lunch Remember the joy you felt when promises were afterwards. Even the annual search for an intern-actually kept and hopes fulfilled. 
ship only lasts a month or so. 
But Notre Dame football, and all its pieces: Brian Kelly, Dayne Crist, Denard Robinson and Lane Kiffin, fill conversations across South Dining Hall tables, throughout DeBartolo hallways and over cold beers for four solid months. 
Then, come second semester, football still reigns supreme. From National Signing Day in February to the beginning of spring football in March to the Blue-Gold Spring Football Game in April, students cannot escape Irish football, not that they want to. It is, after all, a life or death matter while an undergrad. 
But for current undergraduates, the only four-year tradition to surface is losing. Losing big. Losing small. Losing on the last play (see 2009). Losing on the first play (see 2007). 
The players don’t like this tradition. 
“Losing is not okay by any means,” junior tight end Kyle Rudolph said in a press conference Wednesday. “When you are in the locker room after a loss, you can really see on people's faces. 
Just looking around, the disappointment and the distress that they have, because you put so much time and effort into this.” 
It may be in a different way, but students invest large amounts of time and effort into the team as well — but if they are disap­pointed after a loss, it is apparently unacceptable. 
Complaints from alumni and even younger students have sur­faced about members of the student section not cheering enough during the game, giving up on the team or even leaving the game early. 
So, to all alumni offended by the student section’s displays Saturday against Stanford, we ask you to remember, to under­stand and to cheer. 
Remember the joy you felt while an undergraduate 
These are traditions on the verge of dying, and they will if you can’t keep them up. The current senior class can’t remember these feelings of joy — it has never seen more than a three-game winning streak and has seen three losses to USC. 
Alumni — and underclassmen — please understand. 
Understand the pain students have felt watching Senior Day losses to Syracuse and Connecticut. 
Understand the shock students experienced after watching the Irish lose to Navy. At home. Twice. 
Understand the loss of morale that the 16-24 record over the past four seasons has brought. 
But do continue to cheer for the Irish. We will do our best, as well. 
And once a promise is kept, a hope fulfilled, a reason given, then the 10,000 of us will once again match every cheer the rest of Notre Dame Stadium sends forth as we try to continue the Irish 
tradition. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“You cannot live a perfect day Submit a Letter
without doing something forsomeone who will never be able to repay you.” to the Editor at 
John Wooden 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
U.S. Hall of Fame basketball player and coach 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I have never met a man so ignorant that I couldn’t learn something from him.” 
Galileo Galilei Italian astronomer and physicist 
The Observer 
View po in t
Friday, October 1, 2010 page 11 
Thank you, Stephen Colbert 
On Friday, Stephen Colbert, comedian and host of Comedy Central’s “The Colbert Report” appeared before the House Judiciary Subcommittee on Immigration to give his testimony on being a farm worker for a day. Colbert, who attended the Chris hearing in charac-
Rhodenbaugh
ter, has been criti­cized by Republicans and In Pursuit of some Democrats Social Justice for wasting the time and money of 
U.S. taxpayers. This assertion rings hollow because a hearing on an issue Americans love to ignore, farm workers’ rights and well being, became the news story of the day. 
Colbert participated in the United Farm Workers of America (UFW) “take our jobs” challenge, taking a farm worker’s job for a day to experience the work that Americans have proved they are unwilling to do. Tired of being discriminated against and looked down upon for “taking” American jobs, the United Farm Workers, a union based in California and located in nine other states, made up of US citizens, as well as docu­mented and undocumented workers came up with the idea to give any US citizen the opportunity to become a farm worker. They launched the website takeourjobs.org and to this day have received more than three million hits, about 8,600 interested U.S. cit­izens, but only seven continue to work in the field at this time. 
The results of the UFW experiment are far from surprising because labor on U.S. farms in picking fruits and vegetables is some of the most challenging work in the world today. I saw the struggles and hard­ships of farm workers personally when I attended the Center for Social Concern’s Migrant Worker Seminar in Immokalee, Fla., last spring. What I witnessed in Immokalee has left a deep impression on my view of immigrants and migrant work­ers in the United States. 
In Immokalee, workers started their day before sunrise at 4:00 or 4:30 a.m. to head to the pick-up area. There they would line up and farm employees would survey them one by one allowing them on the buses. Even though workers scrape by without the ability to save money, the workers do not even have the right to knowing if they will get work every day. Tomato pickers in Immokalee work about 10 hours a day, seven days a week, in scorching heat, usu­ally close to 100 degrees, with their backs bent over loading 32-pound buckets of tomatoes worth 50 cents a bucket. For a tomato picker in Florida to make minimum wage he or she would have to pick 2.25 tons of tomatoes, or 4,500 pounds, in one day. Today, laws protecting farm workers vary severely between the states, with Florida being one of the worst, because the federal government has been absent since the 1930s when Southern Democrats worked hard to keep labor protections from applying to the heavily African-American farm worker population. 
Not only are workers abused in the fields, but also they find themselves victimized in housing and services as well. Without ade­quate legal protection, workers are exploit­ed in every aspect of their lives by relent­less market forces. Because migrant work­ers move with the growing seasons and are usually undocumented, they are often pro­hibited from renting traditional apart­ments. This means they are forced to pay exorbitant above market rates for short-term leases on unkempt and broken down apartments or houses. The same goes for when they use services to send money home to their families in Latin America. 
The catastrophic results of a lack of rights extend beyond unjust working and living conditions, and the inability to save money or get consistent work for economic security. Human slavery is a reality in the lives of migrant workers in the United States. Since 1997, seven slavery cases have been successfully prosecuted by the 
U.S. government in the state of Florida. More than 1,000 migrant workers have been freed from forced work operations as a result of these trials. To this day I am unable to forget reading the advisories posted around the homeless shelter where the ND group stayed in Immokalee that list­ed the warning signs that someone a work­er knew might be enslaved and what could be done about it. That these injustices are happening just 30 miles from one of the wealthiest cities in Florida, Naples, and that these working conditions supply gro­cery stores and restaurants in South Bend and the majority of the east coast with tomatoes and other crops is a stain on the integrity of the United States that must be removed. 
The solution to this problem should come from two angles, empowering consumers with a choice to buy ethically grown and picked food and extending basic rights to farm workers in the United States. Growers could be ethically certified, much like they can be certified organic today. Also, it is the responsibility of Federal legislators to break the status quo of workers having rights only in a select group of states. The right to work legally by increasing the amount of temporary worker visas to meet demand for labor, minimum wage law, safe working conditions, minimum hours of work per day, and the right to organize must be extended to farm workers in every state. 
Take a moment today to think about where your food came from, and commit to working towards a future when consumers know if they are eating ethically produced food, and farm workers, the backbone of the U.S. agricultural industry, are protected from exploitation by law in all 50 states. 
Chris Rhodenbaugh is a senior political science major and editor of www.LeftysLastCry.com, Notre Dame’s Progressive Headquarters. He can be con­tacted at crhodenb@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Public Service 
Yes, it’s me. I’m back. And this time I have an axe to grind with all the barbarians that somehow slipped out of ancient times and into Notre Dame. First of all, welcome to the 21st century. Here you will find many useful amenities such as sporks, razors to groom your hair (don’t do it in the showers!), sprin­klers that water the sidewalks, bikes that hang out in trees, and backup quarterbacks. But, the most useful invention you will find here that you probably didn’t have back in your time is ... wait for it ... wait for it — the sink! Yes, you heard me Cro-Magnons and Neanderthals, it’s the sink. Imagine, a place where you can wash your hands after you use the restroom! What a novel idea, right? That’s exactly what the sink is! You probably don’t know what a restroom is either but don’t worry about that, we’ll cover that next week. In fact, I know that yall don’t do well with words so I’m gonna draw a picture for you. Hang it up inside your cave...right next to the pinup from the Fall of 30,000 B.C. That was a good year for pinups. 
Wash your hands people! Do you know how disgusting it is to see a guy walk straight out of the bathroom after “Releasing the Kraken!” and look at me as if I’m doing something wrong? “I’m scrubbing until I bleed, fool! What are you doing?” Seriously, I’m about to start a list. It’s going to be called, “List of People Who’s Hands You Should Never EVER Touch if You Know What’s Good For You.” Think I’m joking? Test me. This list will be posted everywhere from Facebook to Twitter, from Main Building to Carroll. Heck even Bethel, SMC, and HCC will have a copy of this list. Thinking about going to the Career Fair? Guess what? They will have a copy of the List too! This list will be in the yearbook so that 50 years from now you can show your grandkids how much of a rebel you were by not washing your hands. “But Grandad, how did you clean your hands?” “We wiped them on our shorts like real men.” You do not want your name on this list, amigo. Because once it goes on, it’s never coming off. Capiche? It’ll be there “For...eh....VER!” So step into 21st century. Make yourself at home. Wash your hands. 
Sincerely hoping I never have to write another one of these. 
Buchi C. Offodile 
senior Alumni Hall Sept. 29 
Please Stop Nagging 
Let me preface this by saying that I have the utmost respect for the impor­tance of tradition on this campus. I refuse to walk up the stairs of the Main Building, I stay off the grass on God Quad, and I have managed to avoid taking a young lady for a walk around the lakes. However, I believe our greatest tradi­tion is an immense gratitude to the alumni, the gracious benefactors of the University and friends to all current students. That said, I’d ask for your under­standing. 
Please stop nagging me. For two and a half seasons, I’d like to think that I was a passionate Notre Dame fan. I followed the recruiting, strength of sched­ule, made it to some away games, and watched enough ESPN to make Mark May blush. At this point, what do I have to show for it? A Hawaii Bowl win, no wins against Top 25 teams, and home losses to Navy, Syracuse and Connecticut. So when I read this continuous flow of letters from alumni basically chastising myself and my friends as a student body, for not showing up to pep rallies in droves, for not being at the game an hour early, I just shake my head. Unable to avoid cliché, maybe you guys are a bit out of touch with our priorities. Few things would make me happier than to see the team do well. It’s the standard we expect in everything in which students participate. The reality is that, at this point, the sensible among us have low expectations for success because, let’s be honest, high expectations haven’t helped us. I’m not a fair-weather fan or a front-runner, but I’m definitely not a martyr either. I’d also say the focus on stu­dent-support for football is misguided, as these editorialists seem uninterested in our efforts for, daresay, more deserving sports, like lacrosse, hockey, and soccer. 
So on Saturdays, I’ll be more excited to tailgate and more interested in hang­ing out with friends in Section 31 than the final score. Come by if you want to have a good time. 
Tom Reilly 
junior Knott Hall Sept. 30 
Homefield advantage, alive and well 
With all due respect, I disagree with your opinions about the student section during the recent Stanford game (“Homefield Advantage, R.I.P” Sept. 29). You faulted us on our silence during Notre Dame’s offen­sive drives. Instead, I urge you to look on this as a positive sign. Offensives tradition­ally need silence to function well, you your­self point out that volume can disrupt audi­bles and snap counts. In a perfect stadium, the offense would be able to hear every time Notre Dame snapped the ball, and never when the opponent did. To that end, it is of the utmost importance that we don’t cheer when Notre Dame has the ball. 
You also question the continuation of traditions. Aside from The Shirt, we have many cheers that we use. From the Celtic March, to the “Go Irish!” kickoff, we do precisely the same cheers that student sec­tions have been doing for centuries. However, all of these pale in comparison to the student section cheering on third and short, keys out, and putting as many deci­bels into the stadium as humanly possible. And who can possibly question push ups? A student section that is in good enough shape to throw their own into the air has to be fairly intimidating. 
Additionally, you might have noticed that we continued the “key play” tradition, and expanded it to every third down play. If you need further evidence of our contin­uing devotion, look no farther than the fourth quarter time out Stanford was forced to take, because the volume disrupt­ed their offense. This timeout was caused, directly, by the student section. Mind you, this heroic effort occurred at a time when the game was pretty much decided. What better example of home field advantage can we get than that? 
Finally, I wish to point out the stands in the stadium. The student section uses them for standing, while everyone else seems to think of them as seats. Before you fault our performance, perhaps you could show support for the team by standing up and cheering with the Irish for the entire game! 
Tim Bontrager 
freshman 
St. Edward’s Hall 
Sept. 29 
The Observer 
Scene
page 12 Friday, October 1, 2010 

By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
Scene Writer 
What do you want to do before you die? How would your life be different if you were a teenage mom? Would I like that person if I really knew them? What would it be like to spend a week in the life of a rapper, boxer or home­less girl? 
All of these questions are asked by shows currently on the air — “The Buried Life”, “Teen Mom”, “If You Really Knew Me” and “World of Jenks”, respectively. And those are just the ones on MTV. What they have in common is being reality-based shows that promote socially conscious behavior — helping the world, each other ... and so on. The watcher has to think in a scope beyond who is using the “smush room” (that’s a “Jersey Shore” reference). 
MTV, in its quest to be on the fore­front of our generations’ social pulse, is leading the charge on this rebel yell, against their own programming in years past, which produced such bottom dwelling shows as “Room Raiders,” “Next” and “Parental Control.” An embarrassing represen­tation for sure. Our parents had “Happy Days” and we have “Pimp My Ride?” 
Now they are airing shows like “The Buried Life,” a reality documentary that chronicles four (very good-look­ing) guys in their mid-twenties as they trek across the continent in a quest to complete a list of 100 things they want to do before they die. For every item on the list they cross off, they help a stranger do something on their list. 
The hugely popular “Teen Mom,” a spin-off of “16 and Pregnant,” shows the struggles of young girls raising their toddlers in the face of numerous obstacles. The 

girls on the Whatever show have the motiva ­b e c o m e tion, do these celebrities in shows actual-their own ly help the right and were world? Are recently fea -there more tured on cov-people out ers of maga -there sudden-zines such as ly drawn to a “Us Weekly” “carpe diem” and “Life and attitude, or Style.” doing the 
J o r i e opposite in Lagerway, a the case of visiting assis-“Teen Mom” tant professor and looking in Film, before they Television and leap? Theater, USA Today described the published an new shows as article on “quite differ-Sept. 22 ent” from questioning if and AIDS. Then it lost any edge or credibility it had and became a bas­tion for marketing artificial pop and sleazy sex-and-drinking style reality TV. I think its recent batch of docu­mentary style programs ... are moti­vated by MTV trying to re -brand 
itself.” 
sponsored shows such as “Extreme Makeover: Home Edition.” 
“Over the years, MTV has tried to cultivate various reputations,” Lagerway said. When it started ‘The Real World,’ it actually dealt with real social tensions young people face with story lines about race, sex, abortion 
documentary films are effective in changing society in the current “golden age” of docu­mentaries. Possibly the popularity of documentaries such as Morgan Spurlock’s “Super Size Me,” or any of Michael Moore’s films, have sparked the change to add programming that asks an audience to think farther than a show’s O.C.-esque dramatics (“Dear Sister,” anyone?). 
Their conclusion was that it is impossible to tell, and Lagerway agrees. 
“It’s often difficult for a TV show to provide the outlet for someone to go directly from watching the show to getting up, going outside and doing something. That said, TV reflects what’s going on in the world and helps shape the way people react to it. So can MTV create an image of young people dealing responsibly with diffi­cult circumstances or being nice to people even though they’re in a differ­ent clique, absolutely.” 
Stephanie Cherpak, a junior who has worked at NDtv for three years, and produces two shows, said that she could “definitely see NDtv heading in that direction” if someone had the idea and drive to produce it for the Notre Dame community. 
So do we accept this as our genera­tion’s representation in media history? 
“I would say it’s a positive change,” Cherpak said. “Sometimes it’s hard to draw the line between exploitation and the service to other kids who the show might strike a chord with. 
“You have to be careful not to make a showcase of it, because it’s actually somebody’s life.” 
Only time will tell if we’ll come off as socially conscious or manipulative, but isn’t striving for something better half the battle? 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at cecker01@saintmarys.edu 

By BRIAN ROBILLARD 
Scene Writer 
The title of Neil Young’s latest album, “Le Noise,” is an appropriate allusion to the record’s producer, Daniel Lanois. Though Young’s 33rd studio album is technically a solo effort, Lanois — a renowned producer who has worked with U2, Bob Dylan and Brian Eno — expertly disassembled and manipulated every track to create a remarkable new sound environment for Young. With no band backing Young’s electric guitar, Lanois intervened to create a textured album never heard before from the veteran singer-songwriter. 
Young is no stranger to the electric gui­tar; it is the basis for his hits on “Everybody Knows This Is Nowhere” and is used powerfully on “Rust Never Sleeps” 
— both classic Young albums. Throughout his career, Young’s ability to develop a distinct electric sound has given his music an edge more akin to Warren Zevon than Dylan. On this record, Lanois is responsible for cultivating the best of Young’s simplistic, ragged guitar work and transforming the ensuing amplified tones into the album’s rhythm section, synthesizer and bass. 
By meticulously dissecting every track in order to accentuate particular down­beats, repeat meaningful words, and add heavy reverb, Lanois highlighted the emotional tone found at the core of Young’s songs. The end result — heard notably in “Hitchhiker” and “Angry World” — is a deep, sonic-sounding record where every track is masterfully layered with guitar-playing and singing. The single-instrument approach on “Le Noise” is successful because of Young’s distaste for overdubs on a recording. What the listener hears on “Le Noise” is the initial guitar track that was then edit­ed by Lanois throughout an intricate copy-and-pate process. This culminates in guitar-thick songs that never stray far from the heart of the initial recording. 
“Le Noise” serves as a reminder that Young is a natural songwriter. The album’s straightforward lyrics have a genuine feeling and become even more appealing when backed by Young’s versa­tile singing. His voice, stretched out and aged over decades of performing, has enough strain in it to remind the audi­ence that his emotions are authentic. 
Though Young’s voice is enhanced by the advanced studio work of Lanois, his singing never sounds processed, and the resulting vocals resonate well with the guitar sound. Employing a reflective tone at times, Young discusses the standard topics of love, death, war and frustration. Though “Le Noise” is very well written, the scattering of topics fall short of creat­ing a driving narrative, and the lyrics can sometimes be lost in the atmospheric sounds. Nonetheless, the overall combi­nation of vocals, lyrics and guitar is capti­vating. 
“Hitchhiker,” the album’s most defining track, is intended for big speakers, dark rooms and late nights. This song is built upon a droning electric guitar and Young’s simplistic lyrics. Lanois’s ability to echo particular words and phrases helps to compliment the haunting feeling of the drug-inspired, autobiographical song. 
A vintage, Harvest-era Young sound is heard on “Love and War.” Instead of a crisp guitar playing and harmonica riffs though, Lanois takes the track to a much darker realm. By separating the record­ing of the higher strings from the bass strings on the souped-up guitar used for this track, Lanois produces a sorrowful song to compliment Young crooning that “the saddest thing in the whole wide world is to break the heart of your lover.” 
Lanois is just what Young needed for his most recent project. Young’s willing­ness to continually redefine his sound allowed Lanois to improve upon decades of musical performances. Though “Le Noise” is not a Neil Young masterpiece, the album is daring and effectively proves that it takes a talented duo to make a solo record. 
Contact BrianRobillard at brobilla@nd.edu 

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scene
Friday, October 1, 2010 page 13 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Scene Writer 
“Beauty and the Beast” is making a comeback (not that it ever really left) next week. The Disney classic, released in 1991, is one of the most beloved and successful animated (and non-animated) films of all time. Now the movie, about true love, per­sonal identity and talking furniture, is making a return to pop-culture with the upcoming re-release of the film on Blu-Ray and DVD. There will also be a theatrical release of sing­along version for one day only, and that day is tomorrow. 
Until “Up’s” nomination at this past year’s Academy Awards, “Beauty and the Beast” was the first and only ani­mated film ever to be nominated for a Best Picture Academy Award. Along with fellow nominees “Bugsy,” “JFK,” “The Prince of Tides” and eventual winner “The Silence of the Lambs,” “Beauty” was considered by Hollywood’s elite to be one of the best films of that year. 
But, more importantly, it was con­sidered by everyone, adult and child alike, to be one of the best movies of that year. Grossing over $400 million at the box office, “Beauty and the Beast” proved to be one of the most successful animated movies of all time. The third film of the period known as the “Disney Renaissance,” (the first two were “The Little Mermaid” in 1989 and “The Rescuers Down Under” in 1990) “Beauty” successfully combined the traditional Disney filmmaking formu­la with some modern updates. 
Like many earlier Disney films, “Beauty and the Beast” was based on a classic fairytale, this one from France, and quickly became known for its beautiful animation and extremely popular original songs. 
Where the Disney studio changed up this traditional formula, which had been failing for many years before “The Little Mermaid,” was with its animation and its music. “Beauty and the Beast” does not stray far in style from other classic Disney films like “Cinderella” and “Sleeping Beauty.” However, the stu­dio took full advantage of advancing technology and incorporated com­puter animation into its traditional hand-drawn style. This can be seen to greatest effect in the famous ball­room scene, in which a ballroom of epic scope was created using com­puters. 
Disney also made some changes to its musical stylings. Though long known for sticking to classical music in its films, the Disney studio decided to change things up and hired con­temporary composers to handle the music. Howard Ashman and Alan Menken, both of whom had previous­ly composed Broadway musicals like “Little Shop of Horrors” as well as the soundtrack for “The Little Mermaid,” together produced some of Disney’s most popular songs, including “Belle,” “Gaston” and “Be Our Guest.” They would go on to write the music for Disney’s “Aladdin.” 
Some argue that “Beauty and the Beast” is Disney’s greatest film, per­haps even the greatest animated film of all time. Whether true or not, “Beauty” has infiltrated every aspect of pop-culture, from Belle dolls to yellow ball gowns to home video sequels to a successful stage musical. Many see Belle as the ultimate figure of female empowerment and the film’s messages about seeing the beauty inside resonates with audi­ences of all ages. Young children are enthralled by Lumiere and his band of misfit furniture, adults tear up at Beast’s miraculous transformation and even college students find it hard not to sing along with “Be Our Guest.” 
“Beauty and the Beast” has sadly been in the Disney vault since 2003, but soon that will no longer be a problem. For those lucky few with a Blu-Ray player, a new Diamond Edition of the movie will be available on Tuesday. For the rest of us, we’ll have to wait until Nov. 23 for a two-disc DVD edition. It’s tough, I know, but do yourselves a favor and start preparing now for this glorious day by pulling out that dusty copy of the soundtrack you have buried some­where and start warming up those pipes. For the very ambitious, join (virtual) host Jordin Sparks for the special sing-along version of the newly restored high definition ver­sion of “Beauty and the Beast” tomorrow afternoon. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 

MLB 
Victory puts Giants one win from division title 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Pablo Sandoval hit a splash shot into McCovey Cove, Andres Torres and Buster Posey also home­red and the NL West-leading San Francisco Giants beat Arizona 4-1 Thursday, leaving them just one win away from the division title. 
San Francisco began the day with a two-game edge over San Diego, which later hosted the Chicago Cubs. 
The Giants completed a three-game sweep, won for the eighth time in 10 games and cut their magic number to two. They need to beat visiting San Diego only once in their sea­son-ending, three-game series to claim their first division crown and playoff berth since 2003. 
Matt Cain starts Friday night's series opener for San Francisco. It could be to clinch 
— and it's expected to be an electrifying scene at AT&T Park for all three sold-out games. 
Torres' go-ahead, solo homer in the fifth inning helped rook­ie Madison Bumgarner (7-6) earn his first home victory in eight tries. Posey hit a two-run homer in the sixth, the rook­ie's seventh shot in September. 
Overall, the Giants have hit 16 home runs in their last seven games. 
Barry Enright (6-7) lost his fifth straight start. He has given up 12 homers during that span after surrendering just eight longballs in his pre­vious 12 outings. 
Sandoval's solo shot into the water beyond right field with two outs in the second prompt­ed one of two kayakers pad­dling for the ball to jump out of his boat and swim to snag the souvenir. 
It was the first home run for the struggling slugger since Aug. 28, a homerless stretch of 66 at-bats. Sandoval has just 12 hits in his last 63 at-bats. 
Sandoval connected for his fourth career splash hit and second this year. It was the fifth by a Giant in 2010, 55th by San Francisco overall and 77th total in the 11-year ball­park's history. Barry Bonds, the home run king, has 35 of them. 
Arizona loaded the bases against Bumgarner in the fourth, getting Enright's sacri­fice fly to tie it at 1. But the D-backs did little else against Bumgarner and the bullpen. 
Bumgarner had been 0-3 at home with a 4.95 ERA before winning Thursday. He struck out seven and walked one in five innings, allowing seven hits and one run. 
The 21-year-old lefty pitched on an extra day's rest after he had his start pushed back a day as ace Tim Lincecum pitched Wednesday night on normal rest. Bumgarner has allowed only five earned runs in his last 38 innings over his last six starts. 
Ramon Ramirez pitched the ninth for his third save in as many tries as the Giants com­pleted their third sweep of the season against Arizona. Manager Bruce Bochy gave All-Star closer Brian Wilson a break after he saved back-to­back games, including a five-out effort Tuesday. 

Arizona struck out 12 times outs and established a San after 14 Ks in Wednesday's 3-1 Francisco single-season fran­loss. The Giants' pitching staff chise record, topping last has a majors-best 1,306 strike-year's total of 1,302. 
CYCLING 
Tour champion Contador caught in doping scandal 
Madrid, Contador said, “I eat steak a day before racing, of Contador’s case becoming regimes anywhere, cycling 
Associated Press 
think this is going to be it was too good to waste. public, the UCI announced authorities hoped to eradicate 
PINTO, SPAIN — Alberto resolved in a clear way. With He said he learned of the that two Spanish riders failed widespread doping by riders, Contador blamed it all on a the truth behind you, you can test results on Aug. 24 and drug tests during the Spanish particularly in their showcase bad piece of filet mignon, and speak loud and clear, and I met with UCI doctors two days Vuelta in September — run-race. Although just 27, promised he would prevail in am confident justice will pre-later. ner-up Ezequiel Mosquera and Contador is already the great-the end. vail.” “On the 26th we talked at David Garcia. The UCI said est rider of his generation. His 
The three-time Tour de Contador said the beef was length about how all this had they tested positive for victories at the Tour starting France winner said contami-brought across the border happened. The UCI itself told hydroxyethyl starch, which in 2007 and at other major nated meat caused his positive from Spain to France by a me to my face that it was a increases blood volume. races were seen as a possible doping test for a “very small Spanish cycling organizer, case of food contamination,” With seven-time Tour cham-break from cycling’s dirty concentration” of the banned Jose Luis Lopez Cerron, dur-Contador said. pion Lance Armstrong now past. substance clenbuterol. It was ing a Tour rest day and at the The Spaniard said he decid-back in retirement, Contador WADA director general found in his urine sample on request of the team’s chef. ed to go public because a is cycling’s biggest star, so it David Howman told The July 21 at the Tour, according Cerron said earlier Thursday German television station was could be devastating for the Associated Press that testing to the International Cycling on Spanish radio that he was aware of the case, but said it sport if the Spanish rider is positive for even the most Union, the sport’s governing a friend of the chef, who had would have been better for found to have cheated. minute amounts of clenbuterol body. complained of poor quality cycling’s image if it could have The UCI’s statement gave no could be enough to sanction 
“The idea of anyone ques-meat at the hotel where the been handled internally. He indication of whether an athlete, although he tioning my Tour victory does team was staying. called his suspension by the Contador will be stripped of declined to discuss the not worry me,” the Spanish Lopez Cerron said he bought UCI “a true mistake.” his latest Tour title or be specifics of Contador’s case. cyclist said. “I am not going to filet mignon for the team in Contador beat Andy Schleck banned. “The issue is the lab has let something like this destroy the Spanish border town of of Luxembourg by 39 seconds If Tour officials do reclaim detected this. They have the everything I have done.” Irun on his way to Pau, in winning his third Tour in his title, Contador would be responsibility for pursuing. 
He was provisionally sus-France. four years. just the second cyclist to be There is no such thing as a pended after a World Anti-Clenbuterol is sometimes “What a crazy day in cycling forced to relinquish it. The limit where you don’t have to Doping Agency lab in given to cows, pigs and other with the news about first was American Floyd prosecute cases. This is not a Germany determined both A animals to increase their Contador,” Schleck said on Landis, who was stripped of substance that has a thresh-and B samples were positive. growth rate. Twitter. “I only heard about it his 2006 Tour title after a pos-old,” said Howman, reached 
The UCI said the amount of Contador said he and four in the press. I hope he is inno-itive test. For years, Landis by telephone as he was chang­clenbuterol in Contador’s sam-other Astana teammates ate cent and I think he deserves denied doping but admitted ing planes in Dubai on his way ple was “400 time(s) less than the beef on July 20 and that the right to defend himself this spring that he used per-to the Commonwealth Games what the antidoping laborato-he was the only one who now.” formance-enhancing drugs. in India. ries accredited by WADA must underwent a doping test on The allegations are the lat-By investing millions of dol-“Once the lab records an be able to detect.” July 21. He ate more of the est to hit a sport whose credi-lars in recent years in what is adverse finding, it’s an 
Speaking at a news confer-meat that day, explaining that bility has been battered by widely regarded as one of the adverse finding and it has to ence in his hometown near although it wasn’t normal to doping scandals. Within hours most stringent anti-doping be followed up.” 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
If you or someone you care about  AVAILABLE NOW 4BD/2BA  Quotes from Nacho Libre:  
PERSONAL  has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame's website:  FOR RENT  HOME FOR RENT. 1.5 miles from ND 574-876-6333  Nacho: Chancho. Men wear stretchy pants. It's for fun. ———————————————  Nacho: Ok. Orphans! Listen to Ignacio. I know it is fun to wrestle. A nice piledrive to the face, or a punch  
http://csap.nd.edu.  ———————————————  Sister Encarnación: Well, my  to the face, but you cannot do it.  
———————————————­ IRISH CORNER APARTMENTS  NOW RENTING 2011-12 4BD/2BA  favorite color is light tan. My favorite  Because, it is in the Bible not to  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't  New upscale apts. Less than 1 mi  HOUSES. STUDENT NEIGHBOR- animal is puppies. I like serving the  wrestle your neighbour. I know the  
go it alone. Notre Dame has many  from ND, next to Taco Bell on  HOODS  Lord. Hiking, volleyball.  wrestlers get all the fancy ladies,  
resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs  WANTED  SR933. Fully furnished apts w/gran­ite countertops, GE appliances  574-876-6333 ———————————————  Nacho: You gotta be kidding me. Everything you just said, is my  and the fancy creams and lotions. But my life is really good! I get to  
confidential support or assistance,  w/dishwasher. Each has 2bd/2bath.  Spacious Upper-Level Apartment  favorite thing to do, every day!  wake up every morning, at 5AM,  
please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819  Earn $1000-$3200 a month to drive  Mstr. bdrm w/walkin closet. No  Near Airport, on Busline 1 Bdr.  ———————————————  and make some soup! It's the best. I  
or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more  our brand new cars with ads placed  water/sewer bill. $1000/mo starting.  $550,  Nacho: [singing] I ate some bugs, I  love it. I get to lay in a bed, by  
information, visit ND's website at:  on them.  Call JSK Development  All Util Included Call Mike  ate some grass, I used my hand, to  myself, all my life! That's fantastic!  
http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu.  www.AdCarDriver.com  574-387-4466.  574-250-0191  wipe my tears.  Go. Go away! Read some books!  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ——————————————­ ——————————————­ 

MEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Alumni faces Duncan; Keough looks for frst win 
BY VICTORIA JACOBSEN, 
LAURA COLETTI, SAM 
GANS, SARAH CRIPPIN, 
JACK YUSKO AND LUCIE 
GORDON 
Sports Writers 
Both Alumni and Duncan will have momentum on their side when the two teams meet Sunday, each coming off a victo­ry. However, neither the Dawgs (1-0) nor the Highlanders (1-1) will be lulled into complacency. 
“We played like we had noth­ing to lose, and now that we’re 1-0 I hope we can keep that intensity and enthusiasm,” Alumni junior captain Dan Dansdill said. 
Duncan (1-1) junior captain Paul Scheel shares similar hopes for the Highlanders. 
“Last week was the second straight week where are defense play has been stellar, so we need to sustain [that] level of play, or even elevate it,” Scheel said. 
Although the Duncan defense has been very effective, limiting their first two opponents to a combined three points, the offense still has room for improvement. The Highlanders have yet to score while in pos­session of the ball, with their only points coming courtesy of a safety against Knott. 
“The offense began taking form last week and we hope to build on that success to put together scoring drives,” Scheel said. “Over the first two games the offense has made improve­ments. We would like to have scoring drives on offense and put the ball in the end zone.” 
Alumni will be looking to play a disciplined brand of football this weekend, with clearly dele­gated offensive and defensive assignments and no turnovers. Scheel said the Duncan game plan is centered on stopping the Alumni attack, led by freshman quarterback Will Cronin. 
“Our goal is to not let them score,” Scheel said. “Our offense is actually pretty good. I’m confident we can put some points on the board.” 
Alumni and Duncan will meet Sunday at 2 p.m. at Riehle Fields. 
Stanford vs. Keough 
Stanford will try to maintain their perfect record this week­end when they play a winless but resilient Keough squad. 
The Griffins (1-0), coming off a bye week, will try to keep on with their winning ways against a competitive Kangaroo squad (0-2). 
“In our first game, we played well as a team,” Stanford senior captain Tony Rizzo said. “We spread the ball around to a lot of different people on offense, and defensively all of our units stepped up and made a lot of different tackles.” 
Rizzo expects the Griffins will have to rely on their traditional­ly tough defense once again. 
“I think [Keough’s] biggest strength is their competitive­ness, as they have lost two real­ly close games,” Rizzo said. “I’m expecting a tough opponent and hope that we can continue to play well by feeding off of their energy.” 
Keough is still searching for its first win of the season, and will also be looking towards defensive toughness to stifle the Griffins. 
“Our bread and butter is our defense,” Keough senior captain Kevin Laughlin said. “The offense has been improving steadily, but needs to match the intensity and production of the defense.” 
The Kangaroos remain opti­mistic about the remainder of their season, and expect to do well. 
“Our goal is to win out,” Laughlin said. “We have had a chance to win both of our first two games, and I’m not going to lower expectations now.” 
The two competitive and hun­gry teams will clash on Sunday at 6 p.m. at Riehle Fields. 
Siegfried vs. Knott 
One of the best interhall grudge matches will be settled this weekend as Siegfried and Knott face off this Sunday, as each team hopes to improve its offensive production. 
Siegfried (1-0) opened with a low-scoring win against Duncan two weeks ago. The lone score for the Ramblers came on a field goal, giving Siegfried the 3­0 win, but leaving a tinge of dis­appointment with the lack of offense. 
“We just needed more prac­tice,” Siegfried senior captain Michael McDonnell said. “In our game against Duncan, there was a lot of miscommunication and a lack of focus.” 
While the Rambler defense posting a shutout was encourag­ing, Siegfried still recognized the need to improve the defense. 
“We definitely did have a lot of things that worked for us on defense,” McDonnell said. “However, we missed a lot of tackles and did a lot of the smaller things wrong.” 
Knott (0-2) has had their fair share of offensive struggles. The Juggerknotts have put up no touchdowns through their first two games. Knott is hoping that some position changes and a healthier squad will lead to more points on the board. 
“We’re moving some people around,” Knott junior captain Dan Shaffer said. “Also, we had an injury last week to one of our linemen, so he’ll be back, which will be nice.” 
The Juggerknotts do not plan to change their plan from the first two games, but rather improve in the technical areas of the game. 
“It wasn’t our plays, it was our fundamentals that weren’t working, so we just hit that hard this week,” Shaffer said. 
Knott is hoping a strong defense that has allowed just one touchdown through two games can lead them to a victo­ry in a game that’s about more than just a record, but also bragging rights. 
“With Siegfried, it’s our rivalry week, so everyone’s probably going to play harder and do whatever they can,” Shaffer said. 
Siegfried and Knott square off at 1 p.m. at Riehle Fields. 
Dillon vs. Keenan 
Dillon and Keenan will battle for playoff positioning Sunday with each team coming off a win last week and looking to pre­serve momentum. 
The Big Red (1-0) forced six turnovers in their 15-7 win over O’Neill last weekend. 
“We are excited about our vic­tory over O’Neill,” senior cap­tain Jordan Smith said. “A lot of players came up big on both offense and defense.” 
Smith and the rest of his Dillon squad refuse to be satis­fied by their season-opening win however. 
“This week we are going to concentrate on getting every­body on the same page and cut­ting down on the mental errors,” Smith said. 
The Big Red knows that the match up against Keenan (1-1) will be one of the most physical of the season. 
“Every year when we play Keenan it ends up being a tight contest with a lot of hitting,” Smith said. “We will prepare for that and get ready to come out swinging on Sunday.” 
The Knights also enjoyed a nice win last weekend, defeating Keough 6-0 in the game’s final minutes. 
“We were really pleased with our defense and our ability to move the ball downfield in our win last weekend over Keough,” senior captain Bart Dear said. 
Keenan’s main focus during practice this week will be their special teams unit, as the Keough defense was able to block two of their field goals. 
“We need to do a better job finishing our drives and on our special teams,” Dear said. “We’re going to broaden our offense, but other than that we’re looking to do more of the same.” 
The battle between these two powerful teams is set for Sunday at 3 p.m. at Riehle Fields. 
Sorin vs. Zahm 
As interhall teams around campus make a push for the playoffs, this Sunday’s contest between Sorin and Zahm will certainly be a crucial factor for both team’s postseason hopes. 
Sorin (1-1) senior captain, running back and safety Michael Browder believes his team still has a lot to improve on follow­ing a win against Fisher last Sunday. 
“We’ve been focusing on the fundamentals in practice,” Browder said. “If we can run good routes and make strong tackles like we have been lately, Zahm has no chance.” 
If Browder’s confident predic­tion is to be realized on Sunday, the Otters will need to overcome a rabid Zahm (0-2) defense that is making a name for itself week by week. 
Zahm held Fisher scoreless for 48 minutes in the first game of the season before conceding the one touchdown that decided the game. In order to take advantage of their solid defense, the Zahmbies will be using a more conservative play-calling style, focusing on holding back Sorin’s offense instead of trying to compete in a high scoring game. 
Although currently winless, Zahm’s combination of a young team gaining experience with each game and strong senior leadership under captain Mark Pomerenke makes them a diffi­cult opponent for a team like Sorin that is seeking a playoff spot. 
Zahm looks to snap a losing streak and earn their first win, while Sorin attempts to secure a winning record as the two teams square off Sunday at 1 
p.m. at Riehle Fields. 
Fisher vs. Carroll 
Fisher hopes to rebound after Sunday’s disappointing loss, as the Green Wave faces the Carroll Vermin, who are still soaring from their opening vic­tory. 
Carroll (1-0) sophomore cap­tain Keith Marrero acknowl­edged that despite his team’s strong performance, there were some nerves involved. 
“The first game jitters defi­nitely showed, especially on offense,” Marrero said. 
Marrero added that with a game under their belt, the Vermin will enter their next challenge against Fisher (1-1) with more experience and confi­dence. 
While his team prepared to defend St. Edward’s passing game last week, this week’s focus will be readying for a more balanced Fisher offense. 
“We definitely have to adjust for the run this week,” Marrero said. 
Fisher captain Michael McMahon said that although his team lost on Sunday, it will use the same strategy this week against Carroll. 
“Our game plan is pretty much the same,” McMahon said. “But we try to add new things every week.” 
McMahon said his team needs to better prepare its offense for Carroll’s defense. 
“[Carroll’s] pass defense is quite strong,” McMahon said. 
The captains of both teams look forward to seeing their underclassmen blossom throughout the season. Carroll freshmen Jack Gardner and Bobby Dorman were impressive against St. Edward’s. Marrero is anxious to see how they con­tinue to improve as the season progresses. 
“We have plenty of freshmen on the field,” Marrero said. “By the end of the season, I am con­fident that everybody will step up and stand out.” 
Contact Victoria Jacobsen at 
vjaobse@nd.edu, Laura Coletti 
at lcoletti@nd.edu, Sam Gans at 
sgans@nd.edu, Sarah Crippin at 
scrippin@nd.edu, Jack Yusko at 
jyusko@nd.edu and Lucie 
Gordon at 
lgordo1@saintmarys.edu 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 
Irish to play first tournament at Warren Golf Course 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
This weekend brings the first home tournament for the Irish, who have already propelled themselves to new levels. The team was successful across the board last weekend at the Mary Fossum Inivational in East Lansing, Mich., as freshman Nicole Zhang shattered the tour­nament record and the team earned a No. 7 ranking in the country, marking a program-best. 
“Last weekend was a really great start to our season,” senior Katie Conway said. “We need to take the confidence built from last week and carry it over to this week.” 
Saturday and Sunday, the Irish will host the William K. Warren Invitational at the Warren Golf Course, a familiar setting. 
“We are all really excited about our home tournament,” Conway said. “It is something I have been looking forward to being a part of since I started as a freshman. It will be really nice to showcase what we do every day to the rest of campus.” 
The course, recently chosen as one of the top 15 college courses in the country by Golfweek Magazine, gives a sense of famil­iarity to the team. However, the squad realized this isn’t an excuse to let its guard down, especially with the twists and turns the players have experi­enced in the past. 
“While we know the course really well and it is an advantage for us, we need to stay focused on playing the course like it is any other golf course,” Conway said. “If we stay focused, we can use our knowledge to our advan­tage.” 
With the memories of last weekend still fresh in their minds, the Irish understand that this is a new slate, requiring their full attention. 
“We have to treat this weekend as a fresh start, because at the conclusion of the final round this week, our scores from last week don’t matter,” Conway said. “It’s a matter of getting the job done this weekend.” 
Both Saturday and Sunday’s action are scheduled to begin at 9 
a.m. with shotgun starts, mean­ing everyone tees off together on the field. Saturday consists of 36 holes, ending around dusk, and Sunday will conclude the tourna­ment with 18 holes. 
Contact Megan Finneran at 
mfnnera@nd.edu 
in its quest for a champi -ior linebacker and captain focused on the upcoming Lyons and Farley will face 
Ryan 
onship. Katherine McNelis said. game, as it understands that off in a crucial matchup “The most important thing With an eye to the future the Whirlwinds will pose a Sunday at 5 p.m. at the continued from page 24 we have to do is win every-and an appreciation for their tough challenge. LaBar Fields. 
thing,” said Bigi. “We place a enjoyable season, the Babes “In the past [Welsh Family 
season on both sides of the great deal of pride in our are not deflated by their has] definitely been a tough Lewis vs. Badin ball while remaining focused sports. We are one hundred inability to enter the win col-opponent,” Schanzer said. Fresh off a bye week, Lewis on reaching the champi ­percent better this year. We umn so far. “I’m assuming they ’ll be will square off against Badin onships. On Sunday, the will go to the championship “Even though our record there this weekend and we’re to try to better its .500 Purple Weasels will play their 
and we will win.” doesn ’t show it, ” McNelis definitely going to take them record in hopes of a berth in final regular season game, The Purple Weasels take on said, “we all feel really good seriously.” the playoffs, while the with only Ryan standing in Ryan Sunday at 3 p.m. at the about our season.” Walsh and Welsh Family Bullfrogs seek their first vic­the way of an undefeeated LaBar Fields. Breen-Phillips will have an will clash in search of each tory in the last game of their 
season. 
opportunity to add a victory team’s first victory at 4 p.m. season. 
Last week, Pasquerilla West Cavanaugh vs. Breen -to the season this Sunday Sunday at the LaBar Fields. Last weekend, the Bullfrogs (3-0) soundly defeated Walsh Phillips 
against Cavanaugh at 6 p.m. (0-3) suffered a tough 13-0 as the team showcased the Cavanaugh and Breen -at the LaBar Fields. Lyons vs. Farley loss against Pasquerilla East ability to overwhelm the Phillips will meet Sunday to Revenge and the postseason in a game dominated by competition both defensively close out their schedules with Walsh vs. Welsh Family will be on the mind of Lyons defense. and offensively. Though it a rematch of the regular sea-Halfway through the sea-as it takes on Farley in this “We were definitely happy played well, the squad saw son opener. This time son, it has not been an easy weekend’s matchup. with our defensive perform-multiple areas of its game around, one team looks to road for Walsh or Welsh In each team’s first game of ance,” Badin senior captain that need fixing before its close out its undefeated sea-Family. Both teams go into the year, the Finest (2 -1) Elise Gerspach said. “We had final regular season game. son and the other team hopes their matchup against one squeaked by the Lions (1-2) some penalties that really 
“If anything, we’ve been to avoid a winless year. another 0-2, having endured 6-0 behind an 80-yard touch-hurt us and prevented us working on our pass and run Cavanaugh (3-0) defeated injuries and two of the tough-down pass to senior wide from being able to capitalize offense,” senior quarterback Breen -Phillips (0 -3) by a est schedules in the league. receiver and captain Molly off the big plays.” Simone Bigi said. “We want score of 6-0 in the teams’ For the Whirlwinds, this Casanova. Gerspach, however, hopes to make sure everything is opener, and has continued to season has been a frustrating “Not having practiced or to eliminate those errors still together. We hope that if win since. Now the Chaos sit one, as their quarterback played much, I was proud of against the Chicks (1-1). we play our best we can beat atop their division and look suffered an injury in their our team for beating them,” “Going into the next game Ryan.” to be positioned to make a first game that resulted in a Casanova said. “But we have we're going to work on keep-
The Wildcats (1-1) had a deep run in the playoffs, trip to the emergency room gotten much better since.” ing up our toughness but play bye last week and utilized the which is not a new position and a forfeit in their second Despite their win in week a lot smarter to avoid those extra practice time to target for the seniors on the matchup. Now, as their quar-one, Casanova is not looking mistakes that prevented us weak spots and focus on lim-Cavanaugh team. terback makes her recovery, past a competitive Lyons from winning,” she said. iting the Purple Weasels ’ “Our overall goal is the Welsh Family is looking squad. Despite their initial loss to style of play. Ryan, under the Stadium,” Cavanaugh senior toward the upcoming “Just like we have gotten Howard, Lewis bounced back offensive leadership of soph-captain and linebacker Mo matchuo. better, they have as well,” against Pasquerilla East two 
omore quarterback Maya Mathias said. “When we were “We’re being optimistic,” Casanova said. weeks ago with a 7-0 tri -Pillai, has proved itself to be freshman we won the cham-senior Whirlwinds captain Since that game, both umph despite the absence of a team with a deep offensive pionship in the Stadium and Cari Pick said. “Our strategy teams have shut out winless their offensive coach. arsenal, while still striving to it was amazing.” is the same as our strategy Breen -Phillips and lost to “Our biggest strength improve its defense. Before the Chaos get there, going into the first game. undefeated Cavanaugh. In against PE was that we were 
“We are working on chang-though, they will have to We ’re trying to get one all three of their games, fired up and passionate and ing our offense,” Pillai said. address their more immedi-uneventful game in as far as Farley’s defense has been the we played like a team,” Lewis “We are also changing up our ate challenge, the Babes, who injuries go.” star of the show, allowing a senior captain Sarah Ceponis defense a bit to match up put up a fight in the squads’ The Wild Women have total of six points all season. said. “Our offensive coach is with what [Pasquerilla West] first meeting. experienced similar disap-Farley views this game as back this week, so we hope to will bring offensively. We are “We are focused on trying pointments in their season crucial to its postseason get more creative on offense definitely focusing a great to finish our perfect season,” thus far. Due to injuries, they hopes, and as such will be and fresher on defense. We deal on little details.” Cavanaugh senior captain have had to alter their playing at a high level. have two games left and we 
With the undefeated Purple and wide receiver Holly Hinz defense in each of the past “We need to win this game want to make them count.” Weasels looking to hammer said. two games. Though this was to make the playoffs, so it’s The Chicks ’ playoff 
out the weak spots and a Still looking for its first challenging, senior captain pretty important,” Casanova prospects will be on the line resilient Wildcats squad aim-win, Breen -Phillips has Lindsay Schanzer said that it said. against the Bullfrogs at 1 ing to go toe –to-toe, both focused on building future may end up being a learning For Lyons, however, this is p.m. Sunday at the LaBar teams remain confident success around some talent-experience for her young a must-win game. Currently Fields. about their chances. ed freshmen, most notably team. sitting at tenth place in the 
“We feel like we are as pre-Jaclyn Winkel and Sienna “We’re going in feeling like standings, the Lions are on Contact Andrew Gastelum at pared for this game as we Combs, who share the quar-the last few games have just the wrong side of the playoff agastel1@nd.edu, Kristen Lasak can be,” Pillai said. “Our terbacking duties. been a learning experience bubble. at klasak@nd.edu, Joseph team is very talented and we “We really just need to get for our younger girls,” she Nevertheless, tn the last Monards at jmonards@nd.edu, believe we can win this the freshmen more experi-said. two weeks the Lions’ offense Katie Heit at kheit@nd.edu, game.” ence on the basics of catch-After suffering a tough loss has found its groove, scoring Matthew DeFranks at Pasquerilla West sees this ing and throwing the ball to Pasquerilla West last 31 points after not scoring mdefrank@nd.edu and Tori game as just one more step under pressure,” Babes’ sen-weekend, Walsh is completely since the 2008 season. Roeck at troeck@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 
Irish travel to invitational 
his mark at the Harvard Championships, a week-long 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Invitational. As a team, the event in Tulsa, Okla. 
Sports Writer 
Irish went 19-7 in singles Three members of the Irish play in the 2009 event. squad will compete in the ITA 
When the Irish travel to When it comes to this Championships — Watt, Cambridge, Mass., for the year’s tournament, assistant sophomore Blas Moros and Harvard Invitational this head coach Ryan Sachire said senior Daniel Stahl. weekend, an important week the Irish just need to play “The fall season isn’t just of events will be kicking off with confidence. about winning. It is also as well. “We need to play better about development,” Sachire 
The Harvard Invitational than the opponent and play said. “We play to win, but the (or Chowder Fest, as it is with more confidence than goal is to play good tennis to known in the them,” he prepare for the spring dual Northeast) is a said. “We’ve tournaments. We need to three-day tour-been trusting play hard, play well and play nament that “We need to play ourselves in with confidence.” will be played better than the practice and Playing with confidence is t o d a y , have had something that the talented 
opponent and play
Saturday and some good Irish squad has not had a
with more confdence
Sunday. The practices and problem with. tournament than them.” conditioning “The guys are believing in i n c l u d e s sessions over themselves and have had a H a r v a r d , the past cou-good start,” Sachire said. 
Ryan Sachire 
Minnesota and ple weeks. It “We want to continue with 
Irish coach
S o u t h is safe to say that.” Carolina. that we have They have a great opportu-
Last season, made some nity to do just that with two junior Casey Watt won the significant jumps.” of the fall season’s biggest award as the top singles per-After competing in the events in the Harvard former in the tournament. As tournament this weekend, Invitational and ITA All ­a result, the junior was Notre Dame’s attention will American Championships. named the Dale Junta move to the ITA Tournament Champion. Watt (Intercollegiate Tennis Contact Andrew Owens at is once again looking to leave Association) All-American aowens2 @nd.edu 
Brown 
continued from page 24 
Friday at South Florida (6-7, 2­0). The Irish prepared meticu­lously to face off against an impressive South Florida offen­sive attack. 
“South Florida’s right side hit­ter, Allie Boaz, is a dynamic player,” Brown said. “She is a strong hitter and always seems to find a way to elude the block­ers.” 
The Irish will face a challenge not only from the South Florida players, but even the fans. Brown said that Notre Dame prepared for a loud and ener-Brown stressed mastering the fundamentals against an often-aggressive Hoya squad. 
“We put a strong emphasis on passing this week in practice to prepare for Georgetown’s serv­ing,” Brown said. “Their serves are incredibly daring as a team. They take a lot of risks and get a lot of aces, but that can also translate to a lot of errors.” 
This week, outside hitter Andrea McHugh won her second Big East Freshman of the Week award. Brown is pleased with the continued development of her freshman standout. 
“What was really impressive was to see her rebound from a rocky start to lead us to victory against West Virginia last 
getic  environ­ “We need to maintain  w e e k e n d , ”  
ment at South Florida. “The venue at  our composure and make sure to  Brown said. “All aspects of her game continue  
USF  is  really  communicate well ”  to improve, but  
tough,” she said.  to see that type  
“It’s a small gym that gets really crazy at times.  Debbie Brown Irish coach  demeanor and composure from a freshman is  
We  need  to  really exciting.”  
maintain  our  Notre Dame’s  

composure and make sure to matchup against South Florida communicate well to be success-begins at 7 p.m. on Friday, while ful in that atmosphere.” the game against Georgetown 
The Irish will then head north starts on Sunday at 2 p.m. for a Sunday matchup in Washington, D.C., against Contact Michael Todisco at Georgetown (11-7, 1-1). Coach mtodisco@nd.edu 
Providence 
continued from page 24 
they’re playing really well,” Clark said. “It’s just a matter of getting the right results. I think they feel good about how they’re playing.” 
Notre Dame started confer­ence play with a good start last week with its first conference win against St. Johns 1-0 at home. 
“It’s another conference game, the second conference game,” Clark said. “You hope that we can build 
on last week’s “It’s just a matter of success against 
getting the right
St John’s and hope that we can results. I think they 
build on that and feel good about how get a victory. 
they’re playing.” 
We’ll have to work for that, and well’ know Bobby Clark that. But we feel Irish Coach 
pretty confident that we can do that.” 
In order to pre­pare to take down Providence’s strategy, Clark and his coaching staff will analyze Providence’s previous games. The Friars are coming off a 2-1 victory over Harvard on Wednesday. 
“We’ll start breaking down game tape today and tomorrow and have a good look at them,” Clark said. “At the moment, I don’t really know. This is one of the best starts they’ve had. I know it’ll be a tough game.” 
Though the Irish beat the Friars in overtime last season, Clark will not focus on the team’s past success to predict a potential win. 
“It’s a different challenge,” Clark said. “We won in over­time last year, but I don’t look too far beyond one season because the teams have changed much this year.” 
In the final practices leading up to the Providence game, the Irish took Thursday off to recover from Wednesday night’s away game by conduct­ing concise team practices. This weekend marks the second game for team captain and sen­ior goalkeeper Philip Tuttle, as he has fully recovered from a 
meniscus injury during summer train­ing. 
“The big change we made last night was that Phil Tuttle made his first game back of the season,” Clark said on Th ursday. “That was a big event for the team to 
get their captain back. He’s coming back at a good time.” 
The championship game of Lose the Shoes, a charity soccer tournament in which students play barefoot, will take place at halftime during the game. The tournament benefits Grassroot Soccer, an organization that uses soccer to promote AIDS awareness to young Africans. 
The game will take place at 
2:30 p.m. Sunday at Notre Dame’s Alumni Stadium. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
Anghel 
continued from page 24 
Irish junior forward Melissa Henderson will spearhead the Irish offense in trying to break Anghel, while Irish senior goalie Nikki Weiss will be focused on stopping Orange senior forward Megan Bellingham, a goal-creating machine with three goals and three assists on the season. 
Sunday’s matchup with St. John’s will be the first of two televised games for the Irish this season, as CBS College Sports will carry the game live. Notre Dame has also had a history of success against the Red Storm, win­ning the inaugural matchup 9-0 and winning each of the teams’ 12 meetings. 
Sunday’s game will pro­vide another test for the offense, as junior St. John’s goalkeeper Kristin Russell has been stonewalling oppo­nents all year, posting a 
0.93 goals-against average and also recording four shutouts of her own. 
Though the series has his­torically been one-sided, the teams ’ last meeting was anything but. Last year’s Big East semifinals pitted the Irish and Red Storm and it took a 99th -minute overtme goal from junior defender Jessica Schuveiller off a corner kick from sen­ior forward Rose Augustin to put Notre Dame past the Red Storm by the count of 2-1. 

Despite the fact that the Irish have won all 19 of their games against opponents from New York state by a cumulative score of 89-4, Notre Dame coach Randy Waldrum has repeatedly said that his team should not take any conference games lightly and will coach his team to avoid such mistakes. 
“I like where we are, ” Wa ldrum said on Sep 19. “The thing now with the Big East — there’s just no easy teams. They’re all good, and 
it’s quite different than it was five, six years ago when we would beat teams five or six [to] nothing. The parity is getting to where you want it.” 
The Irish open up the first half of a four-game home stand with a clash against Syracuse Friday at 7: 30 
p.m. and then face St. John ’s in a televised matchup at 12 p.m. Sunday. 
Contact Allen Jospeh at ajoseph2@nd.edu 

NHL 
Penguins forward not yet ready for practice 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — Penguins forward Jordan Staal is wear­ing a protective boot on his injured right foot and is not yet close to being able to skate or practice, a setback for one of the NHL’s best two-way for­wards. 
The Penguins’ initial estimate that Staal could return by late October appears to be overly optimistic, and it might be well into the season before he is back. 
“There’s been a lot of ups and downs, so I can’t really put my finger on when I’ll be back,” Staal said Thursday. 
Staal, a 2009-10 finalist for the Selke Trophy that is award­ed to the league’s best defen­sive forward, injured a tendon when Canadiens defenseman 
P.K. Subban’s skate cut through the top of his foot and sliced a tendon during the second round of the Eastern Conference playoffs April 30. The two were competing for a loose puck. 
Staal underwent surgery immediately and returned later in the series but, after having a second operation in June, developed an infection. 
“It’s been ongoing ever since,” Staal said while talking to reporters for the first time since training camp opened Sept. 17. “I’m just trying to clear it up and it’s been frus­trating. But I think right now it feels really good and it’s head­ing in the right direction.” 
Teammates said Staal had five medical procedures to treat the injury and infection, which caused the 22-year-old some discomfort. The treatments were to remove infected tissue, and he also required extensive dosages of antibiotics. 
Staal wasn’t able to work out during the summer, when many NHL players work on their indi­vidual skills. 
“I didn’t have much working out this summer, and the way my body is right now I have to get into shape pretty quickly. It’s not going to be easy, but hopefully I can do it quick,” said Staal, who still can’t fit his foot into a skate. 
Another problem is the months of inactivity have “kind of withered (the leg) away a lit­tle bit,” Staal said. “I’ve had a lot of long nights where I can’t sleep.” 
Staal hopes to resume work­ing out as early as next week, but it might be weeks before he can skate again. 
“It’s going to be so hard on him mentally,” teammate Pascal Dupuis said. “You don’t play with an injury like this. You just take your time. It’s early in the year. He’ll be back when he’s ready.” 
Staal’s injury will end his streak of playing in 302 consec­utive regular season games; the Penguins open Thursday at home against Philadelphia in the first regular season game in Consol Energy Center. 
Coach Dan Bylsma, searching for more scoring from his top lines, planned to shift Staal from the No. 3 to the No. 2 line and play former NHL scoring champion Evgeni Malkin along­side him as a wing. Whether Bylsma goes ahead with the plan may depend on how quick­ly Staal returns and how well he plays when he does. Currently, Malkin is skating on a line centered by Mike Comrie. 
“I feel pretty comfortable that once I get into shape, I should be fine throughout the season,” Staal said. 
Bylsma also won’t estimate when Staal might return. 
“There is not a timetable right now,” he said. “He’s on the road, and when he gets to the next step we’ll get him on the ice. We’re just making sure he’s going to heal and gets bet­ter before he gets to the next step.” 
Staal had 21 goals and 28 assists last season and led Pittsburgh with a plus-19 rat­ing. He had a career high 29 goals as a rookie in 2006-07, and he had two goals and an assist as the Penguins beat the Red Wings in the 2009 Stanley Cup finals. 
MLB 
Brewers slug past Mets 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Casey McGehee got to 100 RBIs in the ninth inning on one of several sloppy plays by the Mets and Corey Hart reached 100 RBIs two batters later as the Milwaukee Brewers beat New York 9-2 Thursday night. 
Chris Narveson matched a season high with nine strikeouts and Lorenzo Cain hit a two-run double after All-Star shortstop Jose Reyes dropped a routine popup, helping the Brewers win for the seventh time in nine games. 
The loss ensured the Mets will finish with a second straight los­ing season. New York (77-82) struck out 13 times in dropping its third in a row to the Brewers. 
After finishing 70-92 last year, New York wraps up its second season at Citi Field with a three-game set against Washington. The sparse but lively crowd let the Mets know how they felt throughout this comical effort. 
With runners at first and third and one out in the second, Alicides Escobar hit a hard, high chopper off third baseman David Wright’s glove for a hit that drove in Milwaukee’s first run against prospect Dillon Gee (2-2). Matt Lucroy followed with an RBI grounder. 
In the fifth, Hart hit a two-out pop fly and Reyes barely had to move to settle under it. But the ball hit off his glove and fell to the infield dirt for an error. Cain’s double made it 4-1. 
The boos for Reyes escalated after he struck out leading off the bottom half of the fifth. 
The Mets cut it to 4-2 in the seventh on Josh Thole’s RBI double. But in the ninth, it all fell apart for New York. 
Reliever Sean Green walked pinch-hitter Chris Dickerson with one out and then hit Rickie Weeks with a pitch. After Ryan Braun singled in a run, McGehee, batting in the No. 3 hole for a shot at his 100th RBI, hit a tapper in front of home plate. 
Thole, the catcher, threw it wide of first for an error allow­ing Weeks to scamper home. Ike Davis made a poor throw home to allow the runners to advance to second and third. McGehee could be seen on the replay smiling and mouthing to his dugout: “Was it a hit?” 
Hart and Cain had RBI hits, with Hart driving in Braun for his 100th run, and Manny Acosta walked Lucroy with the bases loaded for another run. Three of the five runs were earned. 
Narveson (12-9) got a sliding catch from Braun in left field to start the seventh and needed lit­tle else from his fielders in mak­ing a strong bid for a spot in the rotation next season. Fielder did make a lunging grab behind first base of a stray piece of paper caught in the wind that was gusting up to 39 mph, get­ting a nice cheer from the sparse but lively crowd. 

MLB 
San Diego on brink of elimination after loss 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO — The San Diego Padres held their annual “Shirts Off Their Backs” fundraising raffle Thursday, when fans walked away with players’ jerseys after the final regular-season home game. 
The Padres might as well have offered the bats out of their hands. When they needed it most, their offense simply wasn’t there. 
Held to just three singles, the Padres lost 1-0 to the Chicago Cubs and were pushed to the brink of elimi­nation from the playoff race. Brad Snyder, a 28-year-old rookie who was called up from Triple-A less than a month ago, hit an opposite-field RBI single off All-Star closer Heath Bell with one out in the ninth inning. 
The loss reduced San Francisco’s magic number for clinching the NL West to one and idle Atlanta’s magic number for clinching the NL wild card to two. 
The Padres trail the Giants by three games going into the final three-game series at San Francisco. 
“Man, it just hasn’t been very good,” All-Star slugger Adrian Gonzalez said about the offense. “We’ve got to find a way to be very good for three days. That’s all it takes. We struggled to get runners on base, we strug­gled to bring them across the board. Our pitching’s done everything possible to put us in a position where we should be celebrating right now, and we haven’t. 
“Plain and simple, we’ve got to hit,” he said. “We’ve hit balls good. We just haven’t found holes.” 
San Diego, which started the season with the second-lowest payroll in the majors, led the NL West for much of the summer until staggering down the stretch. The Padres have lost 22 of 34 games since Aug. 25, when they were 76-49 and had a 6 1/2 ­game lead over the Giants in the NL West. 
In their somber clubhouse, the Padres kept saying they can win three straight games. But to simply force a one-game playoff for the division title, they’ll have to get past Matt Cain, Barry Zito and Jonathan Sanchez. Sanchez no-hit San Diego in 2009. San Francisco’s man­ager, Bruce Bochy, was forced out as San Diego’s skipper after the Padres lost to St. Louis in the first round of the 2006 playoffs. 
San Diego has won 10 of 15 games against the Giants this season. 
“We’re not done,” Ryan Ludwick said. “Everyone in here knows it’s not going to be easy, but it’s not impossi­ble. 
“I think it’s disappointing the fact we haven’t played our best baseball at times this month,” he said.. “But everyone who goes out there is giving their best effort. It’s tough. We all take our job very seriously. We want to win. We want to perform. Unfortunately, as of late, it’s been kind of a rough go.” 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Late feld goal lifts Cowboys 
Associated Press 
STILLWATER, Okla. — Shaun Lewis intercepted Jerrod Johnson’s pass in the final sec­onds and Dan Bailey kicked a 40-yard field goal as time expired to lift Oklahoma State to a 38-35 victory over Texas A&M on Thursday night. 
Johnson turned the ball over five times, including a key fum­ble that led to a Cowboys touch­down in the fourth quarter and his fourth interception that Lewis returned 28 yards to set up the game-winner. 
Brandon Weeden also had turnover problems early, but shrugged them off to throw for 284 yards and two touchdowns as the Cowboys (4-0, 1-0 Big 
12) rallied from a 14-point deficit only to let Texas A&M (3­1, 0-1) do the same. 
Johnson threw for 409 yards and a career-best five touch­downs but ended up making one mistake too many in a meeting of surging Big 12 South rivals. 
Johnson threw two touch­down passes in the final 5½ minutes and had a chance to lead the Aggies on a winning drive of their own before he overthrew a pass into the arms of Lewis, who fell down at the 40-yard line. Oklahoma State picked up 17 yards on two plays before sending on Bailey. 
The Cowboys flooded onto the field to celebrate their first three-game winning streak in a series that had been dominated by Texas A&M until recently. The Aggies had won 10 of the first 12 games between the teams following the creation of the Big 12. 
After fumbling and throwing two interceptions to help Texas A&M build an early 14-0 lead, Weeden was able to rally the Cowboys in a Thursday night showcase game for the second time in as many tries. 

Weeden’s first action outside of mop-up duty came while bringing Oklahoma State back from an 11-point, second-half deficit to beat Colorado on a Thursday night last season. That’s also the only other time in recent years that the Cowboys wore the black jerseys they sported against the Aggies. 
Weeden completed 13 of 15 passes for 184 yards on three scoring drives as Oklahoma State rallied to tie it at 21. Kendall Hunter had a 2-yard TD run in between Weeden’s 38-yard scoring pass to tailback Joseph Randle and the tying 29-yard strike to Justin Blackmon. 
It was Blackmon’s 10th touchdown in four games, the most in the country. 
Oklahoma State went up 28­21 after Johnson’s third inter­ception of the game led to Hunter’s 7-yard touchdown run late in the third quarter. 
On A&M’s next drive, Johnson dropped the ball, clutched in his right hand, while trying to fight off pressure from Jamie Blatnick. Oklahoma State’s Darius Hart rolled on top of the ball, and James Thomas came running up to grab it and race 63 yards to put the Cowboys up by two touchdowns. 
Johnson bounced back to lead an 80-yard drive that spanned 7½ minutes, zipping a 4-yard TD pass to Kenric McNeal on fourth down to keep the Aggies alive. Oklahoma State went three-and-out, and Johnson needed just four passes to tie it again on a 28-yard score to Ryan Swope. 
Oklahoma State got one first down before punting the ball back to A&M with 1:16 left, and the Aggies were near midfield when Johnson committed his 10th turnover in the past two games — and it finally cost him. 


MLB 
Bats silenced; Rays fall to first place tie 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. — Zack Greinke did not put up the num­bers he did last season, but he pitched well enough Thursday night to defeat the Tampa Bay Rays for the first time in his career. 
Greinke pitched seven sharp innings and the Kansas City Royals beat Tampa Bay 3-2, leav­ing the Rays and New York Yankees tied for the AL East lead. 
The Rays and idle Yankees, who have both clinched playoff spots, are even at 94-65 going into the final weekend. Tampa Bay plays three more times at Kansas City while the Yankees have a three-game series at Boston. 
If Tampa Bay and New York are tied after Sunday, the Rays win the division title because they won the season series against the Yankees. 
Greinke (10-4) gave up two runs and four hits while striking out nine. The 2009 AL Cy Young Award winner with a 16-8 record, Greinke had won only one of his previous seven starts. He’d been tagged for 13 runs and 19 hits in 9 2-3 innings in losing his prior two outings. 
“We know what Zack is,” Royals manager Ned Yost said. “It makes us all feel better. We want Zack to pitch well and get a win for him. It wouldn’t change anything we’re trying to do or change any direction we are try­ing to go if he didn’t have a good start, but believe me we much rather have him have the start he had.” 
Greinke finished with a 4.19 
ERA after his last start of the season. He had a 2.16 ERA last year. 
“I don’t know how I’ll look at it in the long run, but right now it wasn’t great,” Greinke said of his season. “A lot more things could go wrong than they did. It just wasn’t great.” 
Greinke called Jarrod Dyson the player of the game with two superb catches in center. 
“I don’t remember seeing any­one run after balls like that,” Greinke said. 
Joakim Soria worked the ninth for his 43rd save, which is a career high, in 45 opportunities. Soria has earned saves in his past 36 opportunities since his last blown save on May 6 at Texas. 
Soria also has pitched 23 2-3 consecutive scoreless innings, a Royals record for a relief pitcher, in his past 24 appearances. 
Soria was helped by Dyson using his speed to catch a proba­ble extra-base hit by B.J. Upton in the ninth in the ninth with a runner on base. 
“Dyson is just flying every­where in the outfield, two great catches out there to save runs for us,” Yost said. “He saved us two runs. It’s like driving in two runs.” 
Dyson also tracked down Carl Crawford’s scorcher in the eighth with Ben Zobrist on second. 
“Carl hit that bullet and that lit­tle center fielder did a nice job,” Rays manager Joe Maddon said. “He really covers some ground. He was very impressive. We faced a good pitcher. We are a lit­tle schizophrenic offensively. I’m not concerned at all.” 
MLB 
Bautista hits 2 HR as Blue Jays batter Twins 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — Jose Bautista hit home runs No. 53 and 54, including a grand slam, and the Toronto Blue Jays went deep six times in a 13-2 victory over the stumbling Minnesota Twins on Thursday night. 
Edwin Encarnacion hit two homers and Jose Molina and Travis Snider added long balls for the big-swinging Blue Jays, who have hit 253 homers this season, the fourth-highest total in baseball history. 
Bautista’s second homer went to right field, his first this season that didn’t go to either left or left-cen­ter. 
“I never get tired of seeing them,” Jays manager Cito Gaston said. 
Francisco Liriano (14-10) gave up five runs and six hits, including three of those homers, with six strikeouts in 5 1-3 innings in his final start before the playoffs. The left-hander is scheduled to start Game 1 of the ALDS on Wednesday at Target Field. 
The AL Central champions have lost six of their last seven games and missed a chance to tie the Rays and Yankees for the best record in the American League. 
“It’s a different atmosphere when you get to the playoffs, but it’s not fun (right now),” manager Ron Gardenhire said. “That’s not the way you want to go into it, pitching like this and getting beat around.” 
Bautista entered the night on an 0-for-20 skid, but had three hits and five RBIs. His mammoth grand slam landed in the third deck in left field some 428 feet from home plate and he added the solo homer to right in the ninth. 
Bautista, whose previous career high for homers was 16, has nine multihomer games this year. He is the first player to hit 54 homers in a season since Alex Rodriguez in 2007. 
Casey Janssen (5-2) pitched 1 1­3 innings of scoreless relief for the win. 
It appears that no matter who is on the mound, or where that mound is, the Blue Jays still hit home runs. 
Liriano led the league in fewest homers allowed — with a mini­mum of 150 innings pitched — allowing only six long balls all sea­son before giving up three in less than six innings on Thursday. 
And according to hittrackeron­line.com, Target Field had allowed just 1.35 homers per game when the day began, third-fewest in the league behind Oakland’s McAfee Coliseum (1.33) and Seattle’s cav­ernous Safeco Field (1.22). 
NBA 
Shaq, Celtics ready for Heat 
Associated Press 
NEWPORT, R.I. — As Shaquille O’Neal sold his prospective franchise on his job candidacy, he privately asked some executives and coaches: Would you rather go into Miami with me, or with­out me? History tells him it’ll take elders to topple these Miami Heat, and there’s such loathing lingering for old man Riles and his preening, shiny superstars. 
“They got a great 1-2,” says Shaq, who disdains Chris Bosh so much he refuses to make it three. And then he started listing the Celtics, the long list of young stars and old champions fighting the fade into twilight. “Everyone is young this, young that. I’ve been in [the NBA Finals] six times in the last [16 years] years, and I haven’t seen a young team make it all the way and win it. They may look better, but they don’t do what we do.” 
The Heat aren’t that young, but perhaps Shaq is getting that old. Whatever happened this summer, he just knew he wanted to be in that fight on the shores of Biscayne Bay. Doc Rivers had ached over that Game 7 loss to the Los Angeles Lakers, and one July night, flickering on his televi­sion, were LeBron James and Dwyane Wade and Bosh declaring themselves ready for the world on an elevated platform of a smoky arena stage. Paul Pierce, Kevin Garnett and Ray Allen had never welcomed themselves to Boston so boldly, but this was a different day, a differ­ent franchise, a different world. 
“That gave everyone an easy visual, but in some ways, you’ve got to have an arro­gance if you’re going to win,” Rivers told Yahoo! Sports. “Hey, it’s like you got Babe Ruth in some ways.” 
For all the disdain that comes from those in the Eastern Conference with the most to lose with the Heat’s resurrection – Dan Gilbert, Otis Smith and Stan Van Gundy – Rivers is reverential when it comes to his old coach’s genius. Rivers loves Pat Riley and considers it the most spectacular coup of his NBA life. “He has such a gift,” Rivers said. “Let me put it this way: He’s the best vision seller I’ve ever seen in my life. He knew that if it came down to selling a vision, everybody was at a disadvan­tage.” 


Taker 
continued from page 24 
David Gerths, Anders Lee, Bryan Rust, T.J. Tynan and Michael Voran, as well as goaltenders Joe Rogers and Steven Summerhays. 
In net, Jackson indicated that probable starter sopho­more Mike Johnson would split time with Summerhays and possibly Rogers. 
“We’ll see more than one goalie, that’s for sure,” Jackson said. 
Jackson said when he was evaluating the freshmen in game action, it was more about intangibles than their physical skills. 
“You’re watching to see how they compete, how hard they work,” he said. “You know the basics about them because you recruited them, so this is more about seeing how they fit into your style of play. It’s going to be about seeing who wants to be in the lineup next weekend. That’s what it really boils down to.” 

Especially this season, Jackson said it’s important that he and the coaching staff have a chance to evalu­ate the younger players. Given the number of players Notre Dame lost to gradua­tion and the NHL last season, a number of younger players will be forced into action on a nightly basis. 
“A number of freshmen are going to be playing, and it’s just a matter of which ones and also which ones are going to play over returning guys,” Jackson said. “There’s no question that, on average, we’re probably going to have eight or nine or ten freshmen every game.” 
Jackson said his team is playing the Gryphons prima­rily because of a personal connection with Guelph coach Shawn Camp. Jackson and Camp coached together with the OHL’s Guelph Storm from 2000-2003. 
“It’ll be a nice opportunity for [Guelph’s] kids to get down there, see campus, see Division I college hockey,” Jackson said. 
The Irish will have a limit­ed number of practices before taking the ice Sunday, so Jackson emphasized that while they’ll definitely be ready to go, the preseason was more about finding what works. 
“It’ll just be a chance for us to look at different combi­nations of players, whether it’s forwards or defensive pairings,” he said. “There’s some benefit for getting a game under our belt before we start Division I play.” 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Squad goes to Chicago to compete in tourney 
By KATHERINE MACK 
Sports Writer 
Coming off of an impres­sive top-three finish in the MIAA Jamboree last week­end, Saint Mary’s will head to Chicago Saturday to com­pete in the Sean Earl Invitational race. 
The race will be hosted by Loyola University and will surely present tough compe­tition, as 40 colleges and universities and more than 4,000 participants will be competing. 
“We are really looking for­ward to Sean Earl this week­end,” Belles coach Jackie Bauters. “It will be our last 5K of the season, and so we are hoping to see some stel­lar times from the whole team. The team has prac­ticed hard all week and I’m excited to see how the work­outs will pay off this week­end.” 
The race will spearhead Saint Mary’s momentum for the remainder of the season, as the season is drawing towards a close for the Belles. Saint Mary’s has two remaining weekends of rac­ing before the MIAA Championships take place at the end of October. 
“That being said, it is another step towards our ultimate goal of being ready to race well at the end of October. There will be a lot of great teams for us to com­pete against this weekend.” 
Junior Joanne Almond and Sophomore Julia Kenney are Saint Mary’s top racers going into Saturday, as they have had the top two times in every race thus far. In last week’s MIAA Jamboree, Almond led the way for the Belles with a time of 23:42, with Kenney coming up close behind at 24:01. 
“As far as Jo [Joanne] and Julia, I’m really interested to see what Julia puts out there this weekend and how much 
of the gap she closes between herself and Joanne,” said Bauters. “She has been looking really good in the workouts and I feel like she’s at a point to make up some ground.” 
The Belles hope to com­pete just as impressively on Saturday as they did last weekend with strong per­formances all around. 
“It should be a fun week­end — the team always looks forward to this race,” Bauters said. 
The Sean Earl Invitational will take place in Chicago this Saturday, with a start time of noon. 
Contact Katherine Mack at kmack1@nd.edu 

MLB 
Cox looking to reach postseason 
Associated Press 
Bobby Cox is still waiting for the one retirement gift he wants most of all — one last trip to the postseason. 
It’s a gift that could keep him in the dugout a few weeks longer. 
“I’ll have time to reflect on what has happened this year and throughout my time in Atlanta in about another month and a half,” Cox told The Associated Press on Wednesday. 
Another month and a half? The regular season ends Sunday. Cox, who is retiring as manager when the season ends, obviously has big postseason plans for the Braves. 
Atlanta leads the race for the NL wild-card berth and Cox said another playoff run would be the perfect ending. During his quar­ter-century with the Braves he led them to a run of 14 straight division titles beginning in 1991, including the 1995 World Series title. 
Cox said adding one more post­season appearance to the collec­tion of pennants on the Turner Field facade would mean “a lot.” 
“Win or lose, we’ve had a great year, but we’re in this to win and one more up there would be great for the organization and would be a great way to go out in retirement,” he said. “We’re try­ing to give it everything we’ve got right now.” 
The Braves open a season-end­ing three-game series with Philadelphia on Friday. 
Those who have been with Cox the longest were surprised when he announced his retirement plans one year ago. He normally avoids the spotlight, and with his announcement he set up the 2010 season filled with questions about his plans from reporters in every city and the procession of tributes from other NL teams. 
That’s not the sort of attention Cox normally enjoys. 
Cox, who wears No. 6, was given a 6 from Chicago’s Wrigley Field scoreboard. He was given a cowboy hat and boots from the Houston Astros, a case of Tom Seaver’s wine from the New York Mets, a flag that flew over the 
U.S. Capitol from the Washington Nationals, among other gifts. 
The respect for Cox, the fourth-winningest manager in history, has been obvious. The surprise is that Cox has seemed to relish baseball’s embrace. 
“I’ve seen him smile more this year than in any year past,” said third baseman Chipper Jones, the 16-year veteran who has played only for Cox. “You can really sense him taking a step back and trying to enjoy all the gratitude that he’s getting, not just from this town and this organization but all across the land.” 
The biggest celebration comes Saturday. The Braves will honor Cox, 69, in a ceremony before their game against the Phillies. 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Irish open season at Eck Tennis Classic 
By MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will kick off its fall season at the Eck Tennis Classic in the Eck Tennis Pavilion this weekend. The Irish will host several teams from around the region, including Akron, Miami (Oh.), Dayton, Kansas, Ohio State and Tulsa. 
This weekend will mostly be a learning experience for the entire squad, but especially for the freshmen, who have been preparing themselves for the demands of collegiate competition for the last few months. The Eck Tennis Classic will be their first opportunity to test their met­tle. 
“It is exciting to have our freshmen to play their first college matches at home,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. 
Although singles play will be the major focus of the matches this weekend, the Irish will get to switch up the doubles to see what works. 
“This fall is the time we use to look at different doubles combinations to get us ready for the spring season,” Louderback said. 
So far, the only competition the Irish have faced is that of their teammates. 
“We are ready to play some 
other teams,” Louderback said. “We have been beating up on each other for a while in practice and are ready for the tournament.” 
The way the individual play­ers perform will tell the coaches much about how they have been preparing them­selves over the summer and thus far in the fall. Conditioning, shot -making and court presence will all be evaluated. 
“We are working on quite a few things with each student athlete and are going to look to see how they react in a match situation.” 
There will be two rounds of singles and one round of dou­bles played today, the first of the three-day tournament. Play will be separated into three brackets. 
Juniors Kristy Frilling and Shannon Mathews will sit out this weekend, as they will be participating in the National Indoor Invitational starting Oct. 7. 
Play will begin today at 9 
a.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles face conference foe Alma 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Sports Writer 
The Belles face their second MIAA conference opponent, Alma, on the road tomorrow at Scotland Yard in Alma, Mich. The game is part of Alma’s Kick for a Cure campaign to raise breast cancer awareness. 
The Belles (2-9, 0-1 MIAA) suffered a tough 3-0 defeat against No. 12 Calvin (8-1-1) Wednesday. Saint Mary’s saw eight saves by sophomore goal­keeper Caitlin Walsh and three saved by junior goalkeeper Kristen Nelson, who entered in the second period. On the offen­sive end, freshman Ellie Jacques had two attempts but only one shot on net. 
The Scots are coming off a home win against Olivet College that saw goals by freshman Autumn Root, junior Allie Meurer and senior Elaine Cunningham. Alma outshot Olivet 26-7, including 9-5 on net. 
The Belles look to come on strong early against a competi­tive Alma squad. 
“Our shape, positioning and intensity were all great,” Belles coach Michael Joyce said. “We’ll need to deal with high pressure, defending a little better and keep our composure a little when we’ve got the ball.” 
The Belles face off against the Scots Saturday at 12 p.m. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Men, women host tournament 
Observer Staff Report 
Both the men ’s and 
women’s teams will com­
pete in the 55th annual 
Notre Dame Invitational. 
The event will be held at 
the Notre Dame golf course 
with races throughout the 
afternoon. 
The invitational will 
begin at 2:00 p.m. with the 
running of the women ’s 
gold race. The men’s gold 
race will begin at 2:45 p.m. 
followed by the open race at 3:30. The men ’s and women ’s blue races will run a 4:15 p.m. and 5:00 
p.m. respectively. 
The men ’s portion will span five miles, while the women’s event is five kilo­meter competition. 
A total of 48 schools have a squad competing in at least one of the men’s or women’s races. 
Some of the top programs at the event are Oregon (#3), Alabama (#5), Villanova (#14) and New Mexico (#16) for the men. 
The top ranked teams on the women’s side will be Villanova (#1), Florida State (#2), Washington (#3), Oregon (#5) and Princeton (#8). 
Last year, the Irish fin­ished in 16th place in the men ’s competition while the women earned a tenth place finish. 
Washington captured both the men ’s and women’s titles at the event last year. 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  
18  19  20  
21  22  23  
24  25  26  27  28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  35  
36  37  38  
39  40  41  
42  43  44  
45  46  47  48  49  
50  51  52  53  54  55  56  
57  58  59  
60  
61  62  63  

CROSSWORD 
Across 36 Parts of e-mail 
1 Lanai's county addresses 5 Five-spots 38 Baking need 9 Deep-sea 39 Tiki bar order 
exploration 40 Golfer who pioneer turned pro at 
14& 17 Encourage-age 15 ment for a 41 Things locked trailing team into place 
18Normal muscle 42Newswoman 
tension Lesley19Search 43Wharf fare? 20It originated at 451948 Literature 
Zurich's Cabaret Nobelist Voltaire in the 
47 Vienna-based 
1910s 
grp. with no 21Get blitzed European22Ignored, with members “out” 50 Opposite of 
24Actress yours, in Tours Chandler and 54 ___'acte others 
55 Apothecary's 26Occasions to 
stock use pepper? 
57 & 60 Risky 31Caesarean “Jeopardy!”section? 
declaration 34See 46-Down 
61 Out with the 35A.A.A. listings junk, say 
JADA STATS 
AS I F EBOLA 
PADRE 
CHA I FOOTBALLD I AGRAMS FORENS I CS 
LOOKAT REST 
JETS I BERT 
PROVOSTS SNUG 
SHAKEN 
I TS ENDOFALOVELETTER LEG 
AL INES 
ELMS RESULTED 
CURES ALES 
LINT ACUI TY 
PO I NC I ANA HOLLYWOODSQUARES ANNE 
ASL I P 
TR I CK BEAD 
YULES YAKS 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
62It's risky to build a house on this 63In case 
Down 
1 Abaker mighthave a hand in it 
2 Massachusetts city called ToolTown 
3 “I swear I ___ art at all”: “Hamlet” 4 Give the flavor of 5 Court fig. 6 Gives a shot in the arm 7 Hurricane survivor, maybe 8 Lots are in lots 9 Something totake a pass on 
10Often-referenced but never-seen wife on “Scrubs” 
11 Site of Vulcan's smithy12Stars' city,informally
13The bride in Wagner's “Bridal Chorus” 
15Relief providers16SluggerSandberg
23Transporter ofheavy loads25Lydman of the
N.H.L. 27Like many laid-
up Brits28Concert halls 29Apparatus for
pull-ups?30They hadMachmeters,briefly31Pedigree
alternative 32Recap figure33Java setting35Java, e.g. 
WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Puzzle by Corey Rubin 
37One might make 481960s Joint 531-Across, for waves Chiefs of Staff one 38Venomous chairman 
56Send explicit venting Wheeler come-ons by cell 40Put to paper 49Things pieced phone
43Types a little to togetherthe left 501985 Oscars co-58R&B singer with 
host with Fonda the hit “It's All 44Bright spots in
the sky and Williams About Me” 
46With 34-Across, 51Nut part 59R&B group with slag furnace 52 Its products go the hit “Ain't 2 input up and down Proud 2 Beg” 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE
JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 
LAURA McGINN 


 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports
Friday, October 1, 2010 page 24 
MEN’S SOCCER 
Conference clash 
Irish host Providence in Big East showdown 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish welcome Providence to Notre Dame with hopes of earning their second Big East win of the season. 
“Every Big East game is always a very different game, you’ll find out,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “They’re off to a really good start this year, off to a very strong start — this will be a very difficult game for us.” 
Notre Dame (3-2-3) left the Chicago Fire’s Toyota Park Wednesday with a 1-1 overtime tie against Northwestern (5-2­1). Despite 30 shots on goal, the Irish offense was unable to connect with the winning goal. The Irish look to turn their offensive dominance on the field into goals. 
“I think the teams knows 
JULIE HERDER/The Observer 
Irish senior goalie Philip Tuttle jumps to make a save during a 2-0 loss to Michigan State on Sept.
see PROVIDENCE/page 17 
19. Tuttle and the Irish will face Providence at Alumni Stadium Sunday. 

HOCKEY 
ND faces Guelph in exhibition 
By SAM WERNER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame’s preseason game against University of Guelph Sunday may not count in the standings, but Irish coach Jeff Jackson said his team’s showdown against the Gryphons will play an impor­tant role in preparing the Irish for games down the road. 
“It’s going to be a good evaluation to see our fresh­men for the most part,” Jackson said. “I think it’ll also be good to at least get into some semblance of game-shape both physically and mentally.” 
The freshmen Jackson will be evaluating are defensemen Jared Beers, Stephen Johns, Kevin Lind and Shayne Taker and forwards Jeff Costello, 
see TAKER/page 21 

WOMEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Phoxes take on Pyros; Weasels vie for perfect season 
By ANDREW GASTELUM, 
KRISTEN LASAK, JOSEPH 
MONARDS, KATIE HEIT, 
MATTHEW DEFRANKS AND 
TORI ROECK 
Sports Writers 
Pasquerilla East and Pangborn will meet this weekend in a crucial meeting of two teams fighting for the a playoff spot in a highly competitive division, where only the top two teams are guaranteed a playoff spot. 
With only two weeks left in the season, the Phoxes (1-1) are looking to rebound from a loss to defending champion Howard. In last week’s game, the Pangborn offense showed some promise early on, scor­ing on their opening drive with senior quarterback Gabby Tate leading the way. But the Phoxes couldn ’t muster any more points against a lockdown man-to­man defense that gave them quite a bit of trouble as the game progressed. 
“It was tough working against a man -to -man defense last week, but we are making some changes in practice on both sides of the ball to help the offense,” Tate said. “This week is definitely a game where we want to duplicate the energy we showed last week and keep it throughout the game.” 
Looking to stop Pangborn will be a fierce Pasquerilla 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
Irish take on conference foes 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame will hit the road this weekend as it looks to con­tinue its dominance in confer­ence play with matches against South Florida and Georgetown. 
The Irish (9-5, 2-0 Big East) hope to build off of the momen­tum gained from last weekend, as they took down Big East rivals West Virginia and Pittsburgh in straight sets. 
“After a few tough losses, we played really well last week­end,” Irish coach Debbie Brown said. “We started to have better rhythm, and our confidence is up for our conferences matches this week.” 
Notre Dame’s first match of the weekend will take place 
see BROWN/page 16 

East (1 -1) defense that accounted for all of the team’s points last week in their shutout victory over Badin. The Pyro defense intercepted two passes and took both back for touch ­downs, carrying the team while the offense struggled to put up points. 
“Our defense is integral to winning, and we expect them to do their job in keeping us in the game,” junior captain Kristin Mannion said. “But our offense needs to convert when we have the chance in the red zone and in high ­pressure situations.” 
Pangborn and Pasquerilla East will clash this Sunday at 2 p.m. at the LaBar Fields in a matchup of major playoff implications. 
Pasquerilla West vs. Ryan 
Pasquerilla West has domi­nated the competition this 
see RYAN/page 16 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Team looks to extend conference win streak 
By ALLEN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
The No. 5/7 Irish look to continue their NCAA-record 69 -match conference unbeaten streak this week­end as they welcome a pair of unranked Big East oppo­nents from New York in Syracuse and St. John’s to Alumni Stadium this week­end. Notre Dame (9-1-0, 3­0-0 Big East) faces the Orange (5 -4-3, 2-1-0) Friday night and then hosts the Red Storm (4-5-1, 1-2­
0) Sunday afternoon. 
Notre Dame first faced Syracuse in 1997 and laid an 8-0 demolition on the Orange, and the Irish have not looked back since that first victory. The Irish have won all of the teams’ eight meetings, though the last meeting was in 2007. 
Syracuse will have a dif­ferent personality from that 2007 meeting, as Orange coach Phil Wheddon took 
over the team after the 2007 season and has never faced the Irish. In addition, Syracuse freshman goalie Brittany Anghel has been a standout between the pipes, recording four clean sheets in ten matches, earning recognition on the Big East weekly honor roll. 
see ANGHEL/page 17 

Photo Illustration by Pat Coveney and Blair Chemidlin 
COMMENTARY 
Irish simply need a win, any win, now 
If you’ve been around South Bend for the past five years, you’ve probably heard the term “signature win” thrown around a lot. 
While the definition of what qualifies as a “signature win,” and the importance of earning such may be debatable, the underly­ing premise is not — to be a quality team, you have to beat quality teams. 
No, a win against Boston College Saturday night would definitely not fall under that category, but that’s fine. Right now, the Irish — and, more importantly, Brian Kelly — don’t need a sig­nature win. They just need any win. 
While one win certainly wouldn’t turn the season around, there’s a world of dif­ference between being 1-4 with a four-game losing streak and 2-3 coming off a big road win against an annual oppo­nent. A win would quell, if not completely stop, the negative energy permeating the cam­pus. 
Despite those negative vibes, this game is eminently winnable for Notre Dame. Yes, the Stanford game was ugly. The Irish were beaten physi­cally and mentally. Throughout the week, though, Irish players and coaches have shown a determined resolve to end their losing streak. 
It’s usually not smart to buy into midweek talk, but Notre Dame fans have seen plenty of losing over the past few years, and this Irish squad is han­dling the tough times much dif­ferently than previous teams. All the clichés are still the same — the players are still promising to “keep fighting,” “work hard,” and “not give up.” The difference is that instead of hanging their heads and hoping things will turn around, Dayne Crist and com­pany seem determined to actu­ally make things turn around. At their press conference Wednesday, Harrison Smith and Manti Te’o seemed legiti­mately angry — not just upset — about their losing streak. 

“What we’re dealing with now is different than it has been,” Smith said. “Where everybody’s excited and ready to come out to practice, because we have to win. We want to win. That is the only reason we’re here. It’s kind of like life or death when it comes to winning, and that’s just how it has to be.” 
The difference between a win and loss Saturday night depends more on Notre Dame than Boston College. There’s no question the Irish have the talent to beat the Eagles, possi­bly by a wide margin. Boston College looked like a team in disarray in their 19-0 loss to Virginia Tech last week, and the Eagles will likely be led by true freshman quarterback Chase Rettig, who will be mak­ing his first career start in a high pressure, prime-time game. As porous as the Irish defense has been, there’s no reason to think they won’t be able to fluster Rettig at least a little bit. 
If Notre Dame can win the turnover battle, maintain a balanced offense and not inex­plicably ignore field position, the Irish will win. Of course, as anyone who’s watched Notre Dame’s first four games this season, none of those things are guaranteed. 
There are plenty of reasons the Irish have struggled so far this season and, yes, Kelly has been one of them. I’m sure he’d even be the first person to admit it. The biggest problem for Crist — and several other Irish players — is inexperi­ence, and there’s no solution for that except to just play. The Irish are a better team than they showed last week, and they should show that on Saturday night. 
Boston College may not be a national title contender or even a top-25 team, but a win on the road against a quality team is always a tough task. This won’t be Kelly’s “signa­ture win,” but this game can be a starting block. It’s winning games like this one that leads to bigger wins down the road. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 

FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Daniels’ pledge brings class to 20 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame secured its 20th verbal commitment for the high school Class of 2011 Tuesday, when ESPN-150 wide receiver DaVaris Daniels announced his plans to join the Irish next season. 
“He’s a real special talent and can do a lot of things on the football field,” Irish recruiting expert Mike Frank said of Daniels, who has played quarterback, running back and receiver for Vernon Hills (Ill.) High School. “He’s a little bit raw because he’s not as experienced at the position as some other guys, but he’s a very gifted player.” 
At 6-foot-3, 200 pounds, Daniels already possesses the size many coaches would covet at a receiver position. That shouldn’t necessarily come as a surprise, however, as Daniels is the son of Washington Redskins defen­sive end Phillip Daniels. 
“He can really move left and right and make people miss,” said Frank, who runs the ESPN.com-affiliate Irish Sports Daily. “Lots of guys with his size can’t make peo­ple miss and create the big play, but his speed and size are a rare combination, and he can do those things.” 
Daniels had appeared a like­ly Irish commit for quite some time, but before he could com­mit to Notre Dame, he had to continue his hard work in the classroom, Frank said. 
“He’s shown he’s serious about it. I think he’s just a guy who had a little bit of a hole to crawl out of [after freshman year],” Frank said of Daniels’ academics, adding it looks like he’s on track to enroll. “He’s wanted to be at Notre Dame, he’s shown he’s willing to work at it, and it’s nice to see a kid put in the effort and realize a dream of his.” 
Daniels joins a group that looks to have all the makings of a top-10, or better, type of 
class. He also joins California high school standout George Atkinson as the corner­stones of an exceptionally talented receiver class. 
“With [Daniels] and George Atkinson, you’ve got playmakers 
“[DaVaris Daniels has] wanted to be at Notre Dame, he’s shown he’s willing to work at it, and it’s nice to see a kid put in the effort and realize a dream of his.” 
Mike Frank Irish recruiting expert 
with pure speed who can play on the outside in this offense,” Frank said. “It’s a perfect offense for them. They have the speed to run by you, and the athletic ability to make people miss. And in the spread, there are more oppor­tunities to make people miss, run after the catch, and make a lot of big plays.” 
While skill players like Daniels and Atkinson are cer­tainly important, one area where Irish coach Brian Kelly and his staff have really made strides has been their ability to recruit a balanced class that includes top players on both sides of the ball, both up front and on the back end. 
It remains to be seen exactly how many scholarships are still available due to uncer­tainty regarding potential transfers, early departures and fifth-year players, but suf­fice it to say Kelly’s first class is nearly complete. 
“There are no real gaping holes in this class. If you’re looking at positions where you’d love to take another guy, 
I think you’d say safety is important, with a guy like Wayne Lyons out there who’s a dynamite player,” Frank said of the sought -after Florida native. “If you can get a guy out of Florida who’s played against great players, it’s not a huge step up [to the college level], 
and he could contribute right way.” 
With only a few spots left, Frank said the Irish are in a good position to be selective and take special talents at other positions, like outside linebacker (Ishaq Williams, Ray Drew), running back (Savon Huggins) and offensive tackle (Antonio Richardson). 
For more on Notre Dame recruiting, check out Mike Frank’s irishsportsdaily.com. E-mail Mike at mikefrank18@sbcglobal.net and tell him The Observer sent you. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

Not just‘The Shirt’ guy 
Carlo Calabrese’s number fills the student section, but he brings more to the field than clothing fame 
By DOUGLAS FARMER Sports Editor  Calabrese’s action after the play that was even more note­worthy: In tackling the  he gets in there, because Carlo right now has been so produc­tive.”  
Cardinal ballcarrier, Calabrese  
When the 2010 version of “The Shirt” was released in the  ripped off his helmet, and then held up the souvenir to the  ‘Everything I could possibly do’  
spring, Carlo Calabrese hesi­ crowd before tossing it aside.  Calabrese did not play a sin­ 
tated  to  believe  he  would  “It was a big play. I thought I  gle snap last season, and knew  
appear on it without ever play- stuffed him  so  I  was  pretty  he still needed to improve him­ 
ing in a game for Notre Dame.  pumped, and I had the helmet  self, both mentally and physi­ 
“When it came out, I got like  in my hand so I just held it up  cally, to earn playing time.  
20 text messages saying, ‘You  and then threw it down. I was­ “I was watching everybody as  
are on the back of The Shirt!’”  n’t really thinking,” Calabrese  a freshman,” he said. “That’s  
Calabrese said. “I thought it  said. “[The coaches] got on me  what you need  to  do when  
might actually be me,  even  a little bit for it, just to make  you’re being redshirted,  so  
though I hadn’t  even stepped  sure  I didn’t get  a  personal  next year you are going to hop  
on the field yet.”  foul, but I think they liked it.”  right in and know what’s going  
The sophomore linebacker  on,  know  the  speed  of  the  
soon discovered the image on  ‘Game time’ player  game.”  
the back of “The Shirt”  was  Throughout  fall  training  Once it became apparent that  
actually based on a picture of  camp, Calabrese battled with  he had a chance at significant  
Irish defensive lineman Jim  junior Anthony McDonald for  playing  time  this  season,  
Flanigan from  the  starting  Calabrese became even more  
1993. In that  l i n e b a c k e r  focused.  
p i c t u r e , Flanigan cele­brates a defen­sive stop dur­ “We can’t just have three losses and die down. We still have thhe  p o s i t i o n . Shortly before the season o p e n e r ,  “I did everything I could pos­sibly do — everything from lift­ing hard in the weight room to running hard during condition­ 
ing then-No. 2 Notre Dame’s 31-24 victory over then-No.  rest of the season to go win nine more games, so we need to keep our  McDonald suf­fered a leg injury that forced him into  ing and getting in the film room to learn the plays,” the New Jersey native said. “I pret­ty much did all I could do to be  
1 State.  Florida  heads up.”  “questionable” status, accord- a great player.” When the time came to take  
But four s t a  in only career r t s ,  Carlo Calabrese sophomore linebacker  ing to Irish coach Brian Kelly at the  the field against Purdue, it was not the speed of the game or the abundance of play calls  
Calabrese has  time,  and  that overwhelmed Calabrese. It  
displayed some  Calabrese sud- was,  in fact, something he  
of the same emotions Flanigan  denly found himself preparing  could never have prepared for.  
does in the image: strength and  to  start  Notre Dame’s first  “The first time running out of  
emotion on every play.  game of the Brian Kelly era.  the tunnel, knowing you  are  
“Leading up to the start of  going to play,  was  just  over- 
Stanford souvenir  the  season,  not  seeing  whelming,” he said. “After the  
Three plays into Stanford’s  [Calabrese] a lot in game situa­ first couple of plays though, it  
first possession Saturday, the  tions, we weren’t sure what to  was, ‘OK, let’s go.’” SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer  
Cardinal faced a third-and-one  expect,” Kelly said. “Game time  That “Let’s go” mentality car-Sophomore linebacker Carlo Calabrese tosses aside a Stanford  
and called a  fullback dive up  he plays really, really well. He’s  ries through the middle of the helmet after he tackled a Cardinal ballcarrier in the backfield.  
the middle. Calabrese took the  on things.”  Irish defense with a  passion  —  
opportunity to display some of  That game time presence  Calabrese and fellow sopho­ his since last season’s close.  knows the time has  come  to  
that strength and emotion,  showed in Calabrese’s first  more  linebacker Manti Te’o  Calabrese’s 27 tackles may be  rally, and that the Irish cannot  
even  if  doing  so  drew  his  game as a starter, when he led  push each other, and the rest  impressive after his first four  wait much longer to do so.  
coaches’ ire.  the Irish with nine tackles  of the team, to always give  career  starts, but Te’o has  “It’s going to take a lot from  
“I read it as coming straight  against Purdue. His total is  more, Calabrese said.  already doubled that tally for  everybody, coaches, staff and  
at  me,  so  I  played  my  run  now up to 27, third highest on  “I feed off of his energy, and  the season with 54. The new- players.  Each  practice  the  
reads  and  clogged  up  the  the team, and his starting posi­ he feeds off of my energy,”  comer to the linebacker corps  coaches are getting on us and  
hole,”  Calabrese  said.  “I  tion has been secured.  Calabrese said. “If he gets a big  realizes  the  differences  making us be the best we can  
thought I hit him in the back­ “He has a great sense for the  hit, I’m cheering him on, and if  between the two middle line- be, making the right plays at  
field, and it was a knock-back  football, and sometimes  we  I get a big hit, he’s cheering me  backers, and looks to Te’o for  the right time,” he said. “We  
tackle, so I don’t think he made  didn’t  see  that during prac­ on.”  tips on improvement.  are all going to rally and win  
it.”  tice,” Kelly said. “[McDonald] is  That being said, Calabrese  “Manti is a great, great line- the rest of our games.”  
Nonetheless, the officials  still a really good player for us.  only earned his starting posi­ backer. He makes me a better  Calabrese  reiterated  the  
awarded Stanford a first down  When he gets his opportunities,  tion days before the season,  player,” Calabrese said. “I just  mantra of claiming victory in  
on  the  play,  but  it  was  he’s got to be productive when  while Te’o was entrenched in  look at him in film. I want to be  every matchup through the  
like him, as good as him, so I  rest of the season when he dis- 
learn a lot from him.”  cussed the past three games,  
or rather, did not discuss them.  
‘Win nine more games’  “We just have to keep the  
Calabrese, unlike many Irish  past in the past, and move on  
fans,  sees  a  1-3 record and  and keep getting better,” he  
does  not  think  about  what  said. “We can’t just have three  
could have been. Instead, he  losses and die down. We still  
talks about what will be, begin- have the rest of the season left  
ning  this  weekend  against  to go win nine more games, so  
Boston College  — a game with  we need to keep our heads up.”  
additional  motivation  for  When Calabrese keeps his  
Calabrese.  head  up,  especially  when  
“It’s a big rivalry, and Boston  wearing the No. 44 featured on  
College  was  my number two  “The Shirt,” he draws a little  
team,” he said. “So I want to  extra recognition  — recogni­ 
give  it  to  them  a  little  bit  tion that he both enjoys and  
more.”  allows to motivate himself.  
Indeed, Calabrese strongly  “In the beginning of the con- 
considered  playing  for  the  versation when people talk  
Eagles before committing to  about ‘The Shirt,’ I’ll let them  
the  Irish,  a  commitment  think it’s me, and they tell me  
spurred by “the academics and  how  awesome  that  is  and  
tradition here.”  stuff,” Calabrese said. “Then I  
“There is nothing like the  tell them it isn’t really me. It’s  
tradition at Notre Dame, foot- pretty funny messing with peo­ 
ball, classes and everything  ple.”  
else,” he said.  In his next sentence talking  
That tradition in years past  about his piece of clothing  
entailed winning  — 11 national  fame, Calabrese stops joking  
championships in all  — but no  entirely.  
current Notre Dame under­ “It motivates me, but I still  
graduate has  seen  a  winning  just play my game, and do  
regular  season.  Hence, the  what I do.”  
TOM YOUNG/The Observer  catchphrase  on  the back of  
Sophomore linebacker Carlo Calabrese chases down a Stanford running back during Notre  “The Shirt” reads, “Rally sons  Contact Douglas Farmer at  
Dame’s 37-14 loss to the Cardinal Saturday. Calabrese has recorded 27 tackles this season.  of Notre Dame.” Calabrese  dfarmer1@nd.edu  

Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 
HEAD T
Record: 1-3 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
First season at 
Irish Offense vs. Eagles Defense
Notre Dame 


career record: 
172-60-2 
record at ND: 
1-3 
against BC: 
0-0 




Douglas 
Farmer 
Sports Editor 
Last week, I was optimistic. I went against the grain, and picked the Irish to win. 
This week, I am pessimistic. Stanford outplayed Notre Dame in every way last week, to the point that the Irish seemed to lack even a competitive spirit. 
Until Notre Dame again shows a competitive spirit, a fighting edge, it will struggle to win, even against a disorganized Boston College team. Without that spirit, a difficult road environment against a team with plenty to prove is a recipe Notre Dame will not be able to overcome. 
FINAL SCORE: Boston College 27, Notre Dame 24 

Matt Gamber 
Sports Writer 
If the Irish can’t beat a team with a true freshman quarterback, who didn’t hold an offer from Notre Dame, making his first career start, I may start to believe this team has actually regressed. That being said, I think the Irish can get the job done, especially if they can hold Montel Harris in check as they did last season. 
The Notre Dame offense, and Dayne Crist in particular, will have to rebound from its worst performance of the sea­son, and I think the unit will be pre­pared to do so against an Eagles defense that won’t have the same talent or schematic advantages Stanford held. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 28, Boston College 13 Eric Prister 

Associate Sports Editor 
Just as Stanford had the clear on-paper edge last weekend, so do the Irish as they get set to face Boston College. The Eagles are weak against the pass, where Notre Dame is strong, and have trouble running the ball, which they’ll need to do to pro­tect an inexperienced quarterback. 
That being said, Boston College takes the annual game against the Irish very seriously, and the home crowd will be loud and ready for a fight. A hostile environment is not the best place to break out of a losing streak, but the Irish have the talent to do it. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34, Boston College 23 

Boston College 
Eagles
O HEAD 
Record: 2-1 AP: NR Coaches: NR 

Second season at Boston College
Eagles Offense vs. Irish Defense 

career record: 

10-6 
record at BC: 
10-6 
Frank Spaziani against ND: head coach 0-1 


Gary Tranquill Bill McGovern Off. Coordinator Def. Coordinator 






The bad vibes on campus concern-
Notre Dame and Boston College both ing the football team are almost as 
have something to prove after their bad as I’ve ever seen, and I was here 
respective thumpings by Stanford and for 2007. That said, it looks like this 
Virginia Tech last weekend. The Irish, year’s Irish squad has not allowed 
though, have an advantage in that the themselves to get sucked into the 
team is intact. The Eagles pulled quar­whirlpool of negativity. The Irish han­
terback Dave Shinskie after their 19-0 dled themselves well in their first road 
loss, and will start one of two inexperi­test against Michigan State, so don’t 
enced quarterbacks, Chase Rettig or expect them to be intimidated by Mike Marscovetra. Alumni Stadium. Even though Boston Notre Dame will have to avoid the jit-College always play the Irish tough, ters it had at Michigan State, which led the Eagles have had plenty of struggles to more penalties than the Irish can of their own this season. It might not afford, but if the team can keep its com-be pretty, but Notre Dame will finally posure in the hostile environment this get another one in the “W” column. should be a win for Notre Dame. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27, Boston College 21 FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27, Boston College 17 



Sam Werner 
Sports Writer 

Laura Myers 
Sports Writer 



What’s it like playing in Boston, near your hometown? 
It’s really exciting. Obviously this game is circled on my calendar every year. 
What’s your favorite floor of the library? 
Second floor. I’ve got a spot in one of those rooms. Might as well have my name on it because I’m there so often. 
Do you have any former teammates on your fantastsy football roster? 
We’re actually not allowed to have fantasy football, in case there’s money involved. But if I were to have one, it would be stacked with Notre Dame players. 
Former Observer football writer Bill Brink was a big fan of yours. Do you actually know him or did he just cheer for you from afar? 
I did meet him once, so I do know he’s a real person. He interviewed me after the Michigan game. I’ve heard great things about him. 
BC enters matchup without naming starting QB 
By MATT GAMBER  is winning performance.” Though signs may point to  
Sports Writer  Rettig getting the call Saturday  
night, Irish coach Brian Kelly  
While  it  was  reported  said Tuesday that regardless of  
Wednesday that freshman Chase  who takes the Eagles’ snaps  
Rettig won the starting quarter- from center, the Notre Dame  
back battle for Saturday night’s  defense will be prepared to  
game,  Eagles  coach  Frank  defend Boston College’s offense.  
Spaziani maintained in a phone  “Well, I still think you’re going  
conference the same day that no  to go with the concepts that are  
decision had been made.  part of your offensive scheme,  
When one reporter began a  because  you  don’t  want  to  
question that assumed Rettig  reteach everybody else as well,”  
would  be  the  Kelly  said.  
starter, Spaziani  “You’re kind of  
cut him off, say- getting  the  
ing, “That has­ “I know this, on  quarterback up  
n’t  been  Saturday night at  to  snuff,  but  
announced. We don’t know who  8 p.m., we’ll have one  you’re not going to go far  
we’re  going  of those guys out there.  from what you  
with yet.”  That’s the timetable.”  do.”  
He  later  The 6-foot-4,  
added: “I know this, on  Frank Spaziani  2 0 5 -p o u n d Rettig arrived  
Saturday night  Eagles coach  at  Boston  
at 8 p.m., we’ll  College  from  
have  one  of  San Clemente,  
those guys out there. That’s the  Calif., in the spring semester.  
timetable.”  While he was expected to be the  
Following a 19-0 home loss to  Eagles’ quarterback  of  the  
conference foe Virginia Tech last  future, it seems the future will  
Saturday, Spaziani announced  arrive early for the freshman,  
he  would  bench  returning  who has yet to see  a college  
starter  Dave  Shinskie,  who  snap.  
threw two interceptions, lost a  Still, Kelly said Wednesday,  
fumble and was sacked twice in  the Irish staff has seen a bit of AP  
the defeat. Shinskie was pulled  Rettig — albeit from a slightly Boston College quarterback Mike Marscovetra takes a snap during the second half of the Eagles’ 19-0  
in the second half in favor of  unconventional vantage point. defeat against Virginia Tech Saturday. Either Marscovetra or freshman Chase Rettig will start this week.  
Mike Marscovetra, who com­ “We’ve watched some high  
pleted 5-of-7 pass attempts for  school film on him,” Kelly said  back Montel Harris, who has  rushing on 22 carries in Notre  “They’ve got a big, physical  
50 yards, but was sacked four  Wednesday. “He’s like the other  amassed 306 yards rushing and  Dame’s  20-16  victory  over  offensive  line.  They’ve  got  
times and fumbled twice.  quarterbacks. He’s tall, he’s got  4.6 yards per carry through  Boston College last season. In  receivers that, in one-on-one  
“We’ve  made  the  change  a strong arm, he’s got escapabil­ three games. A junior, Harris  that game, the Irish committed  matchups, can go up and get the  
because we weren’t satisfied  ity.”  rushed for 1,457 yards last year  to stopping Harris and allowed  football. So it’s not hard to con- 
with the production we were  If the Eagles get their way,  after recording 900 yards on the  almost 300 yards passing, albeit  nect the dots from that stand- 
getting  at  that  position,”  their offensive success will likely  ground as a freshman.  intercepting  Shinskie  three  point.”  
Spaziani said. “So we decided to  have less to do with the quarter- The Irish hope to duplicate  times in the process.  
go in a little different direction  back’s ability to throw the ball  their success in halting Harris,  “Harris is going to be featured  Contact Matt Gamber at  
here, and what we’re expecting  than to turn and feed running  who managed only 38 yards  quite a bit,” Kelly said Tuesday.  mgamber@nd.edu  

Goodman picks up pace in practice, earns reward 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
As junior receiver John Goodman watched from the sidelines while Notre Dame played Purdue and Michigan to start the season, he realized something. 
“I thought, it’s coming down to my junior year and I’m running out of time,” he said. “There’s a freshman in front of me, there’s a sophomore in front of me, and then obviously there’s [junior Michael Floyd]. I just thought, I’ve got to come out and practice a lot differently.” 
So Goodman studied his play­book and began to correct the mistakes he was making in prac­tice. 
“It was … going out and catch­ing every ball rather than just the easy ones,” he said. “Making every block and running every play correctly. It’s not my physi­cal fitness; it’s just a block in my head that I was messing up. And I overcame that.” 
Goodman’s adjustments soon paid off. He returned three punts for 27 yards against Michigan State on Sept. 18, his first play­ing time of the season. Against Stanford, he got in the game as a receiver for the first time, and caught five passes for 59 yards. 
“You have to ask him what clicked, but that’s how you’re supposed to practice,” Irish wide receivers coach Tony Alford said. “He did some good things and got in and showed the capacity to make plays.” 
Goodman, who did not play his freshman year, played in nine games in 2009 and started one, against USC. He caught six pass­es for 104 yards and a touch­down, a 64-yard grab against Washington State on Oct. 31, 2009. 
But freshman TJ Jones and sophomore Theo Riddick won starting receiving spots over Goodman in 2010. 
“It was very frustrating,” Goodman said. “And being a junior … it was frustrating watching guys that were younger than me get in there. But you know, they deserve it. They played really well through­out camp and throughout the first few games. But I just kept with it, kept working, and that’s what it takes.” 
Goodman also originally missed out on the starting punt return job, as senior Armando Allen was the No. 1 returner to begin the season. But Goodman was on top of the team’s newest depth chart, which was released Monday. 
“My whole life I’ve always felt comfortable at punt return,” Goodman said. “A lot of guys ask me, ‘How do you do that? It’s so scary back there.’ But I feel like it’s natural because you have the control whether you get tackled or not. You just wave a hand and they can’t tackle you.” 
Returning punts can be excit­ing, too, he said. 
“It’s definitely exhilarating, especially when you can make a big play and get a touchdown out of it,” he said. “Hopefully that will come soon.” 
Goodman’s desire to play is clear, junior quarterback Dayne Crist said. 

“He’s just making steady improvement,” he said. “I’m not surprised by it, but I’m happy he’s out there and contributing, and we’ll just continue to expect more out of him. But I think that’s what he wants as well, so it’s a good situation for him.” 
Alford said the reason Goodman has earned playing time is a straightforward one. 
“Catching the ball,” Alford said. “He’s done better and that’s why he’s getting more reps.” 
Goodman’s new attitude sprung from an uncomplicated source, as well. 
“Something as simple as some­one playing in front of you,” he said. “It’s as simple as that. If you really have the desire to play, that’ll hit you easily. It defi­nitely hit me and I realized my position on the team. I have the potential to play a better role for this team and that’s what I hope to do in the future.” 
Alford said those feelings were positive. 
“I’d hope he was frustrated,” Alford said. “If you’re not play­ing it means you’ve got to work harder, get better — and he’s done that.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 






