t e
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


March for Life attracts ND pro-life community 
Students road trip to 
D.C. for annual event 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
WASHINGTON — Morning hail subsided into a light drizzle as hundreds of students stood on the National Mall Friday under a Notre Dame Right to Life banner, ready to march with University President Fr. John Jenkins. 
Almost 400 students traveled to Washington, D.C. this week­end to participate in the March for Life, an annual trip organized by the Notre Dame Right to Life Club. 
Jenkins donned the Notre Dame Right to Life hat distrib­uted by the club before the March and walked with students and faculty members from the National Mall to the Supreme Court building. 
“Coming to the March was something I had always wanted to do, but Jenkins coming made it special,” junior Jena Doom, a first-time participant, said. 
The students took the 12-hour overnight bus ride to D.C., slept on the floor in a parish center in Virginia and spent the day marching before returning to Notre Dame. 
“It was a long bus ride and not 
see MARCH/page 4 





Concert to aid in Haiti relief effort 
Junior organizes performance of campus musicians to benefit devastated island country 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
Assistant News Editor 
When junior Michael Daly spent a few weeks in Haiti this summer, it changed him forever. Daly expe­rienced the devastating poverty of the country firsthand as he distrib­uted food in the slums, buried the dead and volunteered at an area hospital. He now hopes to give back by organizing a concert to benefit the Haiti relief effort. 

“Victor Hugo once said, ‘Music expresses that which cannot be said and on which it is impossible to be silent,’” Daly, who is co-pres­ident of the Friends of the Orphans (FOTO) club, said. 
“While in Haiti, I was unable to express my inner emotions and feelings, yet I could not be silent,” he said. “Music helped me … I am inspired to put on a concert in order to denote the healing power of music.” 
The Undertones, the New Orleans Brass Band and senior Pat McKillen will perform at The Hearts for Haiti Relief Concert Wednesday at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. 


The $4 ticket fee and suggested donations will go to the FOTO Haiti Earthquake relief fund, Daly said. 
“The money will be used for medical supplies and the basic necessities of life, [like] food and clean water,” he said. 
Daly said he would like to raise as much money as possible to help those in Haiti. 
“The situations in Haiti are so gruesome that every cent counts,” he said. “I would like this to be a solid donation.” 
Daly said he wants to raise money not only because of his experience in Haiti, but also because his parents and uncle are in Haiti providing medical care. 
“This earthquake was personal for my family and me, and I still pray each and every day for my family and friends’ safety,” he said. 
“My mother was saying that it feels like a war zone with the con­stant hovering of helicopters transporting patients from the slums to [the hospital] or from Haiti to the United States,” Daly said. 
Daly said he was able to put a concert together quickly because people were very willing to help. 
“I made a lot of phone calls and quick office visits to get the concert rolling. [Student body president] Grant Schmidt and [student body vice president] Cynthia Weber were great resources and very helpful in organizing every Haiti relief effort on campus,” he said. 
“The bands and music groups were wonderful and very willing to give their services for Haiti,” Daly said. “Everyone’s been very kind and giving and it’s been a huge blessing.” 
Daly said he hopes the concert will be inspiring to those who attend and beneficial to those in need in Haiti. 
“I want the people to have hope,” Daly said. “Time must not be about dwelling on the past but looking to a hopeful future.” 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 



Students appreciative of Jenkins’ presence 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY and 
JOSEPH McMAHON 
News Writers 
WASHINGTON — Coming to Friday’s March for Life in Washington, D.C. in the shadow of last spring’s Commencement controversy, University President Fr. John Jenkins said there was a “certain energy” in the students who participated. 
Jenkins participated in the March for the first time along­side many students and faculty who protested his decision to invite President Barack Obama to deliver the Commencement address and receive an hon­orary degree because of his stance on abortion. 
“Out of all the controversy from last spring, we wanted to take steps to deepen the pro-life cause,” Jenkins said. 
At the rally before the March, protestors greeted Jenkins with several large yellow signs demanding he drop charges against the “Notre Dame 88” — referencing the group of people arrested for trespassing on the University campus during Commencement last year. One sign was held directly in front of 
see JENKINS/page 4 



Female NDstudent reports assault 
Observer Staff Report 
A female student reported a sex­ual assault that occurred about 2 
a.m. Saturday morning, according to Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) logs. 
In an e-mail to the student body, NDSP director Phil Johnson said the victim said she was approached from behind while walking on the northwest side of campus. The suspect talked to the victim before assaulting her. 
She struggled but was able to run away. 
The victim described the suspect as a male white, college age, with dark curly hair, blue eyes, muscu­lar build and about 6’ to 6’2’ tall. 
Anyone with information about this crime is asked to contact NDSP at 631-5555 or Crime Stoppers at 288-STOP. 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC examines tunnel system page 3  Men’s basketball defeats DePaul page 24  Goodbye to the “Jersey Shore” page 12  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, January 25, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Thoughts on parenting 
It’s been two weeks since we’ve gotten back to campus and I still find myself on autopilot when I run into pseudo-friends walking across the quad. You know, those people that you know but not well enough to actually care about their lives. So my de facto greeting is still “How was break?” 
I normally get a “good,” or “It was nice,” or “Not long enough,” and then they follow up with “How was yours?” 

I can tell everyone right now that if you ask me this ques­tion, pseudo-friend or not, my answer is not going to be a one-word reply. I will more than likely launch into the story of how my car got totaled on Christmas Eve and how I had to nanny three children for five days in order to get some money for a down payment on a new car. 
The parents that I was working for decided they were going to run off to Costa Rica at the last minute because they were, and I quote, “bored,” which left me in charge of 7-year-old twin girls and their 6-year-old brother. 
Let me put this family into perspective for you. The tuition to their elementary school is $20,000 — each. They are pay­ing more to send their three young chil­dren to second grade and kindergarten then I am to attend Notre Dame. And no matter what spoiled rich kid stereotype you can think of, I guarantee you that these children embody it in one way or another. 
But it wasn’t so much their bad behav­ior (and believe me, I fear for the future of our country after living with those three) but it was the fact that I never realized just how difficult this mommy business was. 
Getting the kids up, fed, going to school, picking them up from school, helping with homework, cooking dinner, taking them to sports practices and doing all of this while having to constantly lis­ten to the same three Miley Cyrus songs in the minivan while hardly receiving happiness on the kids’ parts, let alone verbal gratitude. 
I think I finally understood the immense task of parenting when I took the kids out to dinner and realized that everyone in the restaurant was giving me the look. You know, the look that people give parents of uncontrollable children in public; the look that either says “Gosh, it sure must suck to be you,” or “Can you please get those kids to shut up?” 
My nanny gig is now titled “The Week From Hell” in the story of my life. The final night rolled around and I found myself thinking that I was never so happy to get away from children and I believed myself to be personally scarred from the entire event. That was until I got the payment for my services; the check that I received gave me a new pos­itive outlook about my brief encounter with parenthood. 
While the original plan was to take the entire sum and put it towards the down payment on a new car, I set some money aside for something special. I took my mom to lunch. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: CHUNKY CHIPS AHOY OR DOUBLE STUF OREOS? 





“Chunky Chips  “Double Stuf  “Double Stuf  “Definitely  “Chunky Chips  
Ahoy, because  Oreos. Only  Oreos because  Double Stuf,  Ahoy because I  
Oreos taste  because I hate  they’re double  because I like to  like it chunky.”  
crappier.”  the word  stuffed, duh!”  play with my  
‘Chunk.”  food.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 
Police rescue 150 stolen ferrets in Mexico City 
MEXICO CITY — Police in Mexico City have rescued 150 ferrets from armed robbers after a high speed chase. 
Police say they found the furry contraband after the suspects crashed their car into a tree and then fled on foot. 
Fourteen boxes of ferrets imported from the U.S. were taken by force by three robbers from a truck after it left the Mexico City airport. Two suspects are under arrest and another escaped. 
Police said Friday that a veterinarian who purchased the ferrets reclaimed them. 
The ferrets were unharmed. 
Woman jailed for forcing son to kill hamster 
WARM SPRINGS, Ga. —A Georgia woman is in jail after police say she forced her son to kill his pet ham­ster with a hammer as pun­ishment for bad grades. 
The sheriff of rural Meriwether County told the Atlanta Journal-Constitution Thursday that the 12-year-old boy told his teacher about the killing. The teacher reported it to the Division of Family and Child Services, who contact­ed police. 
Sheriff Steve Whitlock said 38-year-old Lynn Middlebrooks Geter of Warm Springs faces one charge each of animal cru­elty, child cruelty and bat­tery. 
The sheriff’s office said she remained in the Meriwether County jail early Friday. It was not immediately known if she had a lawyer. 
Meriwether County is located about 90 minutes southwest of Atlanta. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight TUESDAY WEDNESDAY 
IN BRIEF 
Tricia Struth, a professor at the University of Tennessee College of Architecture and Design, will give a lecture enti­tled “Contexts and Connections: A Guide to Architecture” today in 104 Bond Hall from 4:30 p.m. to 
6:30 p.m. Admission is free. 
The Hammes Notre Dame bookstore will hold children’s storytime from 11 a.m. to 1 
p.m. Tuesday. The book “Bee-Wigged” by CeCe Bell will be read. 
Richard Dugas, the CEO of Pulte Homes, will give a “Managing Through The Financial Crisis” lecture Tuesday in 102 DeBartolo Hall from 7 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. 
Joshua Diehl, assistant pro­fessor of psychology, will dis­cuss the latest autism research, including his own work on lan­guage and communication, in the lecture “The Science Café: Solving the Autism Puzzle” Wednesday at Notre Dame Downtown at 217 S. Michigan St. from 6 p.m. to 7:30 p.m. 
Actors from the London Stage will perform “Romeo and Juliet” Wednesday through Friday at Washington Hall at 7:30 p.m. Admission is $20 for the general public, $18 for senior citizens and $12 for students. 
The 1986 film “Otello” will be shown at DeBartolo Performing Arts Center’s Browning Cinema Thursday at 7 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 


THURSDAY FRIDAY 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 

HIGH 

CORRECTIONS 
32 HIGH 24 HIGH 26 HIGH 25 HIGH 18 HIGH 19 

The Observer regards itself as a professional 
publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so 
we can correct our error. 
Atlanta 52 / 32 Boston 48 / 34 Chicago 34 / 22 Denver 44 / 25 Houston 67 / 43 Los Angeles 62 / 47 Minneapolis 26 / 4 

New York 54 / 35 Philadelphia 55 / 35 Phoenix 65 / 45 Seattle 54 / 42 St. Louis 35 / 25 Tampa 65 / 47 Washington 60 / 35 

Monday, January 25, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Students rejoice as unseasonably warm weather hits campus 
By LILY HOUGH News Writer  o m o r e L i z z y S n o w s a i d , remarking on the notewor-t h y, c a m p u s -w i d e s h i f t t o  this is really weird.” D e s p i t e t h e e n d o f t h e weekend, the mood around  Snow recalled her experi­e n c e s w i t h f r o s t b i t e a s a c o n s e q u e n c e o f l a s t  n o n i s s h o w i n g s i g n s o f w e a k e n i n g , a s i t u a t i o n which in the past has lead  
w a r m e r w e a t h e r a p p a r e l .  c a m p u s s e e m e d r e l a t i v e l y  January’s record low tem- t o “ a c o l d , s n o w y, e n d t o  
B r e a k i n g  n e w s  w a s  “ T h e r e  w e r e  m o r e  p e o p l e  r a i s e d  S u n d a y a f t e r n o o n ,  p e r a t u r e s  a n d  a n x i o u s l y  winter.”  
revealed to Notre Dame stu­ r u n n i n g  o u t s i d e  i n  s h o r t s  s o p h o m o r e To m m y  C h a s e  awaits  warmer  weather  in  “Of  course,  only time will  
d e n t s  a l l  a r o u n d  c a m p u s  and hardly anyone wearing  said.  the coming months.  tell,” Hoffman said.  
S u n d a y  m o r n i n g  w i t h  coats.”  “I try not to let the weath­ “I think it has been really  And while no one seems to  
unprecedented speed, but it  S u n d a y ’s  u n s e a s o n a b l y  er  affect my mood, but it’s  mild so far and compared to  be able to better explain the  
wasn’t thanks  to  any tech- warm  weather brought  stu­ hard not to be happier when  last year, I  am  u n e x p e c t e d  
n o l o g i c a l a d va n ces o n t h e m e d i a s ’ b e h a l f . S t u d e n t s  dents a famil-i a r s e n s e o f  it’s a o u t , ”  nice day C h a s e  q u i t e a f a n , ” Snow said.  “It felt like spring.  b u r s t s o f warm weather  
simply had to look out their windows to witness it first­hand. In South Bend, Ind., in the d e a d o f w i n t e r, t h e r e w a s  c o n f u s i o n r e g a r d i n g what to expect f r o m S o u t h Bend’s notori- “I try not to let the weather affect my mood, but it’s hard not to be happier  said. St ud ents are u n s u r e w h e t h e r Sunday’s warm  B u t W N D U M e t e o r o l o g i s t M i k e H o f f m a n h a s b a d n e w s f o r o p t i m i s t i c  There were more people running outside in shorts and hardly anyone  as experienced a r o u n d S o u t h B e n d S u n d a y a f t e r n o o n , m o st stu d e nts  
grass. Weather officials reported t e m p e r a t u r e s i n t h e h i g h 4 0 s S u n d a y a f t e r n o o n , which proved just enough to melt a stubborn last layer of snow and prompt students  o u s l y u n p r e -d i c t a b l e s e a -sons. And with p r e d i c t i o n s from the South B e n d Tr i b u n e f o r s c a t t e r e d  when it’s a nice day out.” Tommy Chase sophomore  w e a t h e r i s a p o s i t i v e i n d i -cator of milder w e a t h e r t o c o m e . S t i l l wary from last y e a r ’s r e c o r d  students. “ I t h i n k t h i n g s a r e s e t u p f o r a v e r y w i n t r y m o n t h o v e r a ll , w hi c h m e a n s c o l d e r  wearing coats. “ Rachel Pilla freshman  c o u l d n ’t h e l p b u t t a k e a d v a n t a g e o f it. “ I w o u l d n ’ t s a y t h i s w e a t h e r w i l l  
to walk around campus in t­ s n o w s t o r m s  f r e e z i n g  t e m - than  norma l te mp era tures  translate into anything big,”  
s h i r t s ,  s h o r t s  a n d  f o r  a  this week, the roller coaster  p e r a t u r e s ,  m o s t  s t u d e n t s  and  n ear  or  ab ov e norma l  C h a s e  s a i d ,  “ b u t  I  w o n ’ t  
b r a v e  f e w  l i k e  f r e s h m a n  of bizarre weather patterns  remain unconvinced.  snowfall,” Hoffman said in  complain. We’ll take it and  
Rachel Pilla, flip flops.  seems just to have begun.  “ I t ’s  a  f a k e -o u t , ”  S n o w  h i s  p r e d i c t i o n s  f o r  enjoy it while it lasts.”  
“I just wasn’t cold,” Pilla  “ I ’ m  u s e d  t o  p r e t t y  s p o - s aid.  “I thin k i t’s  g o ing  to  February.  
said.  r a d i c  w e a t h e r, ”  f r e s h m a n  get cold again, but hopeful- According to Hoffman, the  Contact Lily Hough at  
“It felt like spring,” soph- A m a n d a  G a r z a  s a i d ,  “ b u t  ly not as cold as last year.”  El Niño weather phenome- lhough1@nd.edu  



SMC students confused over closed tunnels 
life very difficult. I have to were used by years by stu-students were sad to see be very, very costly. We’d 

By ALICIA SMITH 
rely on security for a ride to dents, ” Hambling said. them go and longed for the have to create more exits, 
News Writer 

and from my different class-“The big issue was high day they would be open for make sure that the exposed es and this really hinders pressure steam, high volt-student use one again. energy was concealed, ” As students make the slip-my independence.” age electricity and confined “I would be excited if the Hambling said. “It ’d be pery trek across Saint The network of tunnels space.” tunnels opened s o m e t h i n g Mary ’s College campus in connects many of the older The tunnels, which were back up we ’d have to the cold, snow -covered buildings on campus. There originally created for utility because that “What I love about research. I’m months of win-are also tun -purposes, had exposed would mean not saying it’s 
the tunnels, when I 

ter, many long nels connect -steam and electricity pipes that I would impossible.” 
get a chance to talk

for the days of ing the that proved hazardous, walk through One tunnel 
“I do wish the tunnels
the warm C u s h w a -Hambling said. Additionally, warm air to alumnae, is the deemed safe underground were still open. It L e i g h t o n there were not enough exits instead of out nostalgia that goes and running tunnels that would make my life L i b r a r y , in case of emergency. in the cold, ” from LeMans 
with it.” 

combated the LeMans Hall “We were violating all s o p h o m o r e Hall to the 
so much easier
wintry condi -and the kinds of codes at that time,” J o r d a n Student Center tions. As they during this winter S t u d e n t Hambling said. Bartrom said. Bill Hambling is still avail ­trudge weather. Because I Center, Bill In order to repair the tun-With the tun-director able for stu ­through the H a m b l i n g , nels to make them up to nels re -dent use. 
walk with crutches, facilities 
snowy side -director of code, Hambling said, the opened, stu -“There isn ’t walks, some snow and ice make facilities, said. College would have to seal dents could any energy in wonder what my everyday life very The tunnels, off all the pipes, as well as once again that tunnel. No happened to owned by the create more exits. have the warmth and con-high -pressure steam, no 
diffcult. I have to 
the passage -Sisters of the “First off, the difficult venience the tunnels high voltage electricity and ways. Some reuly on security for Holy Cross, part would be offered. its not a dead-end corridor. speculate as to a ride to and from my were declared sealing off the H a m b l i n g There are exits at both why they were unsafe by high pressure said, however, ends,” Hambling said. 
different classes and “We were violating 
closed. And then-building steam lines that the likeli-Hambling said he would some just his really hinders my commissioner that feed the all kinds of codes at hood of repair-love to see the tunnels open dream about independence.” Don Fozo. campus. That that time.” ing the tunnels again. them opening Fozo has would be very for student use “What I love about the once more. since retired. c o s t l y , ” was slim, tunnels, when I get a
Molly Farrell Bill Hambling
“I do wish H a m b l i n g Hambling said. though if chance to talk to alumnae, 
sophomore director
the tunnels said the card “Creating exits money were is the nostalgia that goes were still readers were out of the facilities provided, it with it,” Hambling said. “It open. It would removed from space [so they] would be pos -seems to be one of the make my life so much easi-the tunnels on Dec. 22, would not be sible to make things most alumnae er during this winter weath-2004. considered dead-end corri-repairs so students could remember when they come er, ” sophomore Molly “They were closed by the dors. The spans are too once again utilize the tun-back to campus.” Farrell said. “Because I county’s building commis -long without any way of nels. walk with crutches, snow sioner. They are primarily getting out.” “I’m not saying that it’d Contact Alicia Smith at and ice make my everyday utility tunnels, and they When the tunnels closed, be impossible, but it would asmith01@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, January 25, 2010 

Jenkins 
continued from page 1 
the Notre Dame Right to Life banner before club members decided to move. 
Jenkins said he was not sur­prised to see these banners dis­played throughout the March route. 
“I felt it was important not to let those banners take away from the central goals of the day,” he said. “And I refuse to let them distract from advancing pro-life cause.” 
Senior Mary Daly, co-vice president of the Right to Life Club and a leader of the student response condemning Jenkins’ invitation last spring, said this year’s March had record-break­ing attendance from Notre Dame students. 
“I thought that there was some great interactions and between students and profes­sors,” she said. “I think every­one really appreciated having the administrators there.” 
After Jenkins’ announcement that Obama would deliver the Commencement address last year, Daly helped form the group ND Response, which held several prayer rallies and protests in the months that led up to the president’s speech on campus. 
She also wrote an April 2009 letter on behalf of ND Response that asked Jenkins to “formally support pro-life initiatives on campus through financial and personnel resources.” 
Daly told The Observer in May that the goal of ND Response was to “challenge people to really think about the issue or issues surrounding the invita­tion to President Obama.” 
Right to Life has invited Jenkins to participate in the March every year, so the group was pleased he marched with the students this year, Daly said. 
“I think that what we had at the March is a good start by the administration, and I really hope we can expect to see more involvement down the road,” she said. 
Despite past disagreements, Jenkins said his interaction with all the students has always been positive. 
“I completely commend the students for their hard work in the spring, and how they inter­acted with my office,” he said. 
Before, during and after the March at a reception for stu­dents, faculty and alumni, Jenkins intermixed with the stu­dents, talking and occasionally sharing a laugh. 
“I enjoyed being with them,” he said. “I admire their efforts and was proud of the way they came out themselves.” 
Before the March, Jenkins presided over a Mass for Notre Dame students and faculty at Saint Agnes Church in Arlington, Va. 
“It’s a delight for me to be with you today,” he said in the greeting. 
Jenkins said in the homily that abortion is “an act of despair.” 
“We come today to not to con­demn or judge but to be a wit­ness of the Gospel of life,” he said of the March. “I think what we’re called to today through readings is to be witnesses to hope against despair.” 
Participation in the March was one of several preliminary rec­ommendations that were made to Jenkins by Notre Dame’s Task Force on Supporting the Choice for Life, which was formed last September partly as a response to critics who said the University did not do enough to support the pro-life cause. 
Jenkins said in addition to attending the March, he would most likely implement all of the recommendations in some form. 
“They are all reasonable sug­gestions and advance the goals we share,” he said. 
Along with participation in the March, the task force also rec­ommended that the University adopt a formal policy statement about the sanctity of life and offer better support for preg­nant students. 
Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Mark Poorman, who was a member of the task force, said he was glad Jenkins accept­ed the recommendation to attend the March. 

Poorman, who also was attending the March for the first time, said last year’s Commencement ceremony increased the visibility of the pro-life culture at Notre Dame. 
“Commencement really helped raise the pro-life issue so this is something we wanted to sup­port,” he said. 
Poorman also said he was “delighted” by the high turnout of both students and faculty members. 
“I’ve always admired the fac­ulty and staff who come on the March,” he said. “It’s great to have so many people here.” 
Although Jenkins said next year’s March is too far away to determine if he would be able to participate again, he said he will “find some way to continue deepening commitment to the pro-life cause.” 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 



MADELINE BUCKLEY/The Observer 

Marchers hold up a sign reading “Father Jenkins, Free the Notre Dame 88” Friday at the March of Life in Washington D.C. 
against him. He just stayed calm and kept talking to people.” 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu and Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 



March 
continued from page 1 
a lot of sleep, but this is worth it,” junior Patrick Graff said. “I think it’s important for our leaders to see the support this issue has.” 
Jenkins mingled with students and faculty before the March at a breakfast reception and joined them afterward for a dinner sponsored by the Alumni Association at the D.C. restaurant Smith and Wollensky. 
He also said a Mass for the stu­dents and faculty before the March. 
“Jenkins’ participation didn’t affect my decision to come but I’m glad he decided to step up,” Graff said. 
Right to Life president John Gerardi, a senior, said students were supportive of Fr. Jenkins’ decision to participate in the March. 
“Most didn’t agree with his decision to invite [President Barack] Obama to campus last spring, but he’s taking steps to support the movement, and we appreciate that,” Gerardi said. 
Former South Bend-Fort Wayne Bishop John D’Arcy and Bishop Kevin Rhoades, current bishop of the diocese, were intro­duced at the rally that preceded the March, drawing cheers from the Notre Dame contingent on the Mall. 
For Junior Katie McNelis, last spring’s controversy over Jenkins’ invitation to Obama made this March particularly sig­nificant. 
“Going to the March is some­thing I had always thought about, but this year was the time,” she said. 
McNelis said Jenkins’ partici­pation was an important display of solidarity with the students. 
“I think the pro-life movement is something so much a part of the identity at Notre Dame,” she said. 
But while many students came to Notre Dame with a clear understanding of the abortion debate, freshman Jiayi Lou, a native of China, had never debat­ed the issue before. 
“I had never heard of this before. I never saw anything pro-life or pro-choice,” she said. “In China because of the one-child policy, it’s almost common sense that abortion is legal.” 
Yet Lou has always felt the one-child policy is inherently unfair, so she became involved in Right to Life activities on campus. The one-child policy and abortion are connected life issues for Lou. 
“The policy is so cruel. You lose the right to have a baby,” she said. “I’m an only child and my mom already had her tubes tied.” 
At the rally before the March, Jenkins talked with students and other political figures in the crowd, such as Joe Donnelly, con­gressman from Indiana’s 2nd Congressional District, which houses Notre Dame. 
Donnelly said he meets stu­dents at the March every year and offers his congressional office as a place to visit and warm up. 
“I try to come out every year because as you can see, there’s a huge crowd from the Notre Dame community,” Donnelly said. 
After chatting with Jenkins on the National Mall, Donnelly described the University presi­dent as “the best.” 
“He’s a tremendous leader and a wonderful priest,” he said. 
Freshman Tori O’Malley said she was impressed with Jenkins’ demeanor throughout the March, especially given that signs dis­played throughout the March demanded he drop charges against people arrested for tres­passing on the University campus during Commencement last year. 
“It was cool to see Fr. Jenkins marching mixed in with every­one,” O’Malley said. “It was great how he reacted to the opposition 


World & Nation 
Monday, January 25, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 


Castro questions U.S. troops in Haiti 
HAVANA — Fidel Castro is questioning why the U.S. and other countries sent soldiers to quake-ravaged Haiti, saying military presence hindered international cooperation. 
The former Cuban president writes that “without anyone knowing how or why,” Washington dispatched troops “to occupy Haitian territory,” and other nations followed suit. 
In an opinion column Sunday in state-con­trolled media, Castro said neither the U.N nor the U.S. “has offered an explanation to the peo­ple of the world.” 
Castro noted that several governments com­plained that the troops kept them from landing aid flights and called on the U.N. to investigate. 

Anti-Chavez channel removed 
CARACAS, Venezuela — A cable-television channel critical of President Hugo Chavez was yanked from the air early Sunday for defying new government regulations requiring it to televise some of the socialist leader’s speeches. 
Venezuelan cable and satellite TV providers stopped transmitting Radio Caracas Television Internacional, an anti-Chavez channel known as RCTV, after it did not show the president’s speech Saturday to a rally of supporters. 
While five other channels were also dropped from cable, some say the government took broader action to disguise its mission to shut down a popular, critical media outlet ahead of congressional elections and amid rising discon­tent over inflation, crime and electricity short­ages. 
NATIONAL NEWS 


Man released after opening plane door 
DENVER — A man accused of attempting to open an airplane’s exterior door while in flight has been released after investigators determined it wasn’t a terrorism matter, authorities said Sunday. 
The incident occurred Saturday on a United Airlines jetliner en route from Washington, D.C., to Las Vegas. The plane, which had more than 100 people aboard, was diverted to Denver International Airport. 
FBI spokeswoman Kathy Wright said a passen­ger tried opening one of the front doors of the air­plane and may have tried to open the cockpit door before passengers restrained him. The man was taken into custody, questioned and released for a medical evaluation, she said. 

Children swept away by river 
SAN DIEGO — Two children swept away by the Tijuana River south of the border last week remained missing Sunday, after a search for a reported body near storm-swollen waters in San Diego County turned up nothing, authorities said. 
Migrants near Border Field State Park reported they may have seen a body in the water early Sunday, said Maurice Luque, a spokesman for the San Diego Fire-Rescue Department. Fire crews assisted by lifeguards and U.S. Customs and Border Protection searched the area for several hours but found nothing. 
A 2-year-old girl and a 5-year-old boy were caught in the north-flowing river in Tijuana after a car crash Wednesday and have not been seen since, Luque said. 
Mexican authorities said the family’s car crashed into the water, killing their 9-year-old sis­ter, according to Luque. The children’s parents were also in the car but their conditions were unknown, Luque said. 
LOCAL NEWS 


Lake project closes wildlife area 
NORTH JUDSON, Ind. — A northern Indiana wildlife area will be closed for about three months for a project aimed at raising its lake level. 
The state Department of Natural Resources says it is closing the 140-acre Round Lake Wetland Conservation Area near North Judson to the public for the duration of the work. 
The agency says the project includes build­ing a permanent water control structure and a berm that will raise the water level in the lake and help restore the surrounding wetlands at the site about 40 miles southwest of South Bend. 
HAITI 



150,000 quake victims buried 
Towering death toll doesn’t include bodies under rubble, government reports 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE — The truckers filling Haiti’s mass graves with bodies reported ever higher numbers: More than 150,000 quake victims have been buried by the government, an official said Sunday. 
That doesn’t count those still under the debris, carried off by relatives or killed in the outlying quake zone. 
“Nobody knows how many bodies are buried in the rubble — 200,000? 300,000? Who knows the overall death toll?” said the official, Communications Minister Marie-Laurence Jocelyn Lassegue. 
Dealing with the living, mean­while, a global army of aid workers was getting more food into people’s hands, but acknowledged falling short. “We wish we could do more, quick­er,” said U.N. World Food Program chief Josette Sheeran, visiting Port-au-Prince. 
In the Cite Soleil slum, U.S. sol­diers and Brazilian U.N. peace­keeping troops distributed food. Lunie Marcelin, 57, said the handouts will help her and six grown children “but it is not enough. We need more.” 
Yet another aftershock, one of more than 50 since the great quake Jan. 12, shook Port-au-Prince on Sunday, registering 
4.7 magnitude, the U.S. Geological Survey said. There “We also need tents. There is 200,000 dead reported last One who wouldn’t die in Port-were no immediate reports of a shortage of tents,” said Vincent week by the European au-Prince was Wismond further damage. Houver, the Geneva-based Commission, citing Haitian gov-Exantus, who was extricated 
The Haitian government was agency’s chief of mission in Haiti. ernment sources. The United from the rubble Saturday. He urging many of the estimated Their Port-au-Prince warehouse Nations, meanwhile, was stick-spoke with the AP from his cot in 600,000 homeless huddled in has 10,000 family-size tents, but ing Sunday with an earlier con-a French field hospital on open areas of Port-au-Prince, a some 100,000 are needed, he firmed death toll of at least Sunday, saying the first thing he city of 2 million, to look for better said. The organization has 111,481, based on recovered wanted to do was find a church shelter with relatives or others in appealed for $30 million for that bodies. to give thanks. the countryside. Some 200,000 and other needs, and has The final casualty estimates, He spent the 11 days buried in were believed already to have received two-thirds of that so far. which the European the ruins of a hotel grocery store done so, most taking advantage In the aftermath of the 7.0-Commission said also include praying, reciting psalms and of free government transporta-magnitude earthquake, the some 250,000 injured, will sleeping, he said. “I wasn’t afraid tion, and others formed a steady casualty estimates have been clearly place the Haiti earth-because I knew they were stream out of the city on Sunday. necessarily tentative. Lassegue quake among the deadliest nat-searching and would come for 
International experts told The Associated Press the ural catastrophes of recent me,” he said. searched for sites to erect tent government’s figure of 150,000 times. That list includes: the With such rescues now cities for quake refugees on the buried, from the capital area 1970 Bangladesh cyclone, increasingly unlikely, Haiti’s gov­capital’s outskirts, but such alone, was reported by CNE, a believed to have killed 300,000 ernment has declared an end to short-term solutions were still state company collecting corpses people; the 1974 northeast search operations for the living, weeks away, said the and burying them north of Port-China earthquake, which killed shifting the focus more than ever International Organization for au-Prince. at least 242,000 people; and the to caring for the thousands sur-Migration, an intergovernmental That number would tend to 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami, viving in squalid, makeshift agency. confirm an overall estimate of with 226,000 dead. camps. 

RUSSIA 


Russia, U.S. arms treaty nearly complete 
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Adm. Mike Mullen, forces without mentioning missile 
Associated Press 
and retired Gen. Jim Jones, President defense,” he said. “If nuclear missiles are 
MOSCOW — A new nuclear arms reduc-Barack Obama’s national security adviser, launched, then defense missiles can be tion treaty is “95 percent ready,” Russian were in Moscow last week to discuss treaty launched also.” President Dmitry Medvedev said Sunday in negotiations. The United States has scrapped a plan to the clearest indication to date that an end A new agreement would succeed the position a missile defense system in Central to wrangling over the seminal agreement 1991 Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty, or Europe that had angered Moscow, which may be close. START, which expired Dec. 5. The two accused Washington of undermining its 
Medvedev said he is optimistic that a countries had hoped to reach a deal before national defense. deal will be reached and that he was the end of the year. Russia praised Obama for the decision, heartened by the pace of negotiations. “I Medvedev and Obama agreed in July to but Russian officials also have said they expected the negotiations to take longer, cut the number of nuclear warheads each want to know more about the sea-and but in the space of six months we have cre-country has to between 1,500 and 1,675 land-based systems the U.S. plans to put in ated the backbone of a document,” under a new treaty. place instead. Medvedev said. While sounding a positive note over the Medvedev said Sunday the issue of plans 
Expert-level talks to iron out the final START deal, Medvedev expressed reserva-for a missile defense system will be dis-details of the treaty are due to take place tions about missile defense plans, however. cussed at the nuclear arms reduction next month in Geneva. The chairman of “It is sly to talk about strategic nuclear treaty talks. 

page 6 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, January 25, 2010 
The Observer 



Business

Monday, January 25, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Iran bases budget on $60 crude oil 
TEHRAN, Iran — Iran planned next year’s budget based on an oil price of $60 per barrel, nearly double the price from the last year, the official news agency reported on Sunday, indicat­ing rising optimism over energy prices. 
Last year, the parliament approved a budget based on $37.5 per barrel for the fiscal year end­ing in March, reflecting the steep drop in prices that severly impacted the economy. About 80 per­cent of Iran’s foreign revenue comes from oil exports. 
Earlier on Sunday President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad submitted the budget to the Iranian parliament for approval, saying more money would be allocated to agriculture, education and research, as well as to the poor. 
Iran’s parliament speaker Ali Larijani said the amount would be revealed later, according to IRNA. The budget requires approval of the par­liament and a constitutional watchdog. 
Semi-official Mehr news agency, however, said the amount of the budget was about $368 billion, some $89 billion more than the current Iranian year. 

Chrysler revamps old car brands 
AUBURN HILLS, Mich. — Chrysler now has a turnaround plan that promises improved qual­ity and a stream of new models. But it won’t work unless Chrysler can get cars like the Sebring back on people’s shopping lists. To do that, Chrysler is going back to the basics: Reinventing its car brands — Chrysler as a luxury line, Dodge as a quirky value brand — and reintroducing them with head-turning ads. 
Chrysler’s truck brands, Jeep and Ram, have strong identities in buyers’ minds. But its car brands are mushy, said Allen Adamson of the San Francisco-based branding firm Landor Associates. One of Chrysler’s first actions under Fiat SpA, which took control of the automaker last year, was to split Ram truck from Dodge so Dodge could stand alone. 
Dodge will try to make a big splash with an ad during the Super Bowl next month. Chrysler Group LLC, which has yet to pay back $15.5 billion it borrowed from the federal gov­ernment, is taking some heat for paying an estimated $5 million to air the ad. But the company says it’s the best forum to explain Dodge’s transformation. 


Fed leadership vote looms large 
Wall Street, global markets could suffer if Bernanke is not confirmed this week 
Associated Press  
WASHINGTON — A defeat  
of Federal Reserve Chairman  
Ben Bernanke’s quest for  
another four-year term could  
raise the risk of a “double dip”  
recession if political jousting  
over a successor were to drag  
on for months, economists  
warn.  
But Bernanke’s prospects  
appeared to brighten Sunday,  
with three more senators,  
including Republican leader  
Mitch McConnell of Kentucky,  
predicting he’ll be confirmed.  
A vote is expected later this  
week.  
Still, the chance of  
Bernanke’s defeat has unset­ 
tled Wall Street, contributing to  
last week’s 4 percent loss by  
the Dow Jones industrial aver­ 
age, its worst performance in  
10 months. If Bernanke were  
rejected, uncertainty over a  
successor would further roil  
global markets, at least in the  
short run.  
Anxiety, along with sagging  
investments, could cause con­ 
sumers and businesses to cut  
spending. Joblessness, already  
at 10 percent, could worsen.  
And the recovery might fail.  
Economists who fear a dou­ 
ble-dip recession — in which  
the recovery would collapse AP  
into another recession — Sen. Judd Gregg, R-N.H., right, speaks at a session of the Committee on Banking, Housing  
regard it as a worst-case sce­and Urban Affairs to vote on Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke’s reappointment.  
nario. But they don’t rule it  
out, either.  wind them down, notes  Bernanke said they were now  ordinary Americans disgusted  
Lynn Reaser, chief economist  Edward Yardeni, chief invest- undecided.  with Wall Street’s excesses.  
for the National Association for  ment strategist at Yardeni  The Fed chief’s term expires  Higher interest rates that  
Business Economics, is among  Research.  Jan. 31. If Bernanke isn’t con- could follow a Bernanke defeat  
them. She sees the likelihood  But even more worrisome  firmed by then, Vice Chairman  would make it costlier for the  
of a double-dip as less than 50  for the markets and the econo- Donald Kohn is expected to  government to pay down its  
percent.  my would be if Bernanke’s  step in as chairman and run  record-high debt. Right now,  
“It will become more acute if  Senate foes are seen as having  the central bank temporarily.  low rates are allowing the  
there are delays in confirming  meddled with the Fed’s inde- Bernanke is widely credited  Treasury Department to  
a successor,” she says, noting  pendence for political reasons.  with helping to prevent the  manage its debts.  
that the economic recovery  The dollar would likely fall.  Great Recession from turning  If investors think the  
remains fragile, with spending  Higher interest rates and infla­ into a second Great  White House and Congress  
still weak, credit tight and job  tion fears would follow, stoked  Depression. But his support of  will choose a successor  
creation scarce.  by uncertainty and shaken  Wall Street bailouts during the  who would keep the Fed  
“All the political angst over  confidence. And all that would  height of the financial crisis  pumping money into the  
the confirmation couldn’t have  probably unsettle consumers  has angered Americans strug­ economy and hold interest  
come at a worse time for the  and business, making them  gling with 10 percent unem­ rates at record lows for too  
economy,” Reaser says.  less likely to spend, hire or  ployment and soaring home  long, it would erode trust  
A Bernanke loss would  invest.  foreclosures.  in the Fed’s oversight of  
heighten uncertainty about  Bernanke’s confirmation,  Backlash from Democrats  the economy.  
Fed policies on interest rates  which had seemed assured,  over Bernanke’s role in the  Continued low rates  
and stimulus measures. In  was suddenly thrown into  bailouts intensified after  would please many ordi­ 
part, that’s because Bernanke  doubt last week as resistance  Democrats suffered a stunning  nary Americans. But it  
devised the unconventional  grew among some Senate  upset in the Massachusetts  would risk creating new  
supports for the economy and  Democrats. And some sena- Senate race. Democrats are  speculative bubbles and  
likely knows how best to safely  tors who had supported  eager to appear allied with  stoking inflation.  



Wal-Mart cuts Sam’s Club employees 
Associated Press ing. ing new store formats, price cuts and 
“In the club channel, demo sampling offering more variety and more brands of 
NEW YORK — Wal-Mart Stores Inc. events are a very important part of the items from take-home meals to baked will cut about 11,200 jobs at Sam’s Club experience,” said Sam’s Club CEO Brian goods. warehouses as it turns over the task of Cornell in a phone interview with The As consumers eat out less in the shaky in-store product demonstrations to an Associated Press. “Shopper Events spe-economy, Sam’s Club has tried to steal outside marketing company. cializes in this area and they can take our customers from grocery chains and rival 
The move is an effort to improve sales sampling program to the next level.” warehouse stores like Costco Wholesale at Sam’s Club, which has underper-Shopper Events, based in Rogers, Ark., Corp. by offering more everyday goods formed the company’s namesake stores currently works with Wal-Mart’s name-like food and health and beauty items in the U.S. and abroad. sake stores on in-store demonstrations. and paring its assortment of general 
The cuts represent about 10 percent of Sam’s Club is looking to the company to merchandise like furniture and clothes. the warehouse club operator’s 110,000 improve sampling in areas such as elec-But during Wal-Mart Stores’ most staffers across its 600 stores. That tronics, personal wellness products and recent quarter, revenue at the Sam’s Club includes 10,000 workers, mostly part-food items to entice shoppers to spend division slipped nearly 1 percent to timers, who offer food samples and more. $11.55 billion while U.S. Walmart stores showcase products to customers. The Sam’s Club has performed weaker posted a 1.2 percent sales increase to company also eliminated 1,200 workers than Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s namesake $61.81 billion. Earlier this month, Wal­who recruit new members. stores in the U.S. and abroad. Cornell has Mart Stores closed 10 underperforming 
Employees were told the news at been working to improve results since Sam’s Club locations, resulting in the loss mandatory meetings on Sunday morn-taking the helm in early 2009, introduc-of about 1,500 jobs. 

page 8 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Monday, January 25, 2010 


Crews work to protect wildlife from oil spill 
Associated Press 
DALLAS — Crews worked Sunday to protect two sensitive wildlife areas after a crude oil spill shut down parts of a major southeast Texas port, state Land Commissioner Jerry Patterson said. 
Plastic walls known as booms and oil-sucking skimmer boats were used to safeguard a lake that is a crucial breeding ground and a wildlife manage­ment area that lost its protec­tive gates when Hurricane Ike roared ashore a year and a half ago, Patterson said. 
The U.S. Coast Guard said about 462,000 gallons — or 11,000 barrels — of oil spilled into the water Saturday when Guard Petty Officer Richard Brahm said. 
The crew of the damaged tanker, the Eagle Atome, said the remaining 69,000 of the 80,000 barrels of oil in the ship were pumped out, according to the Coast Guard. 
Chief Warrant Officer Lionel Bryant of the Coast Guard said about 45,800 feet of booms were deployed to contain the spill. 
“Because of where it hap­pened, we were able to get teams out there quickly to at least contain it for now,” Bryant said. “But it’s still a tremen­dously large spill.” 
None of the sensitive wildlife areas had been affected, Bryant 
said. That 
included Keith 

an  800-foot  “Because of where it  Lake, a breeding  
tanker collided with a towing vessel pushing  happened, we were able to get teams out  ground for shrimp and other small fish,  
two barges near Port Arthur, about 90 miles east of Houston.  there quickly to at least contain it for now. But it’s still a  and the M u r p h r e e W i l d l i f e M a n a g e m e n t  
It was the largest spill in Texas since  tremendously large spill.”  Area, where sev­eral endangered species have  
1994, but still  been spotted.  
well shy of one  Lionel Bryant  Bryant said his  
20  years  ago  Chief Warrant Offcer  agency had  one  
i n v o l v i n g N o r w e g i a n tanker Mega  United States Coast Guard  report of an oil-covered bird and encouraged resi- 
Borg that leaked  dents to report  

4.3 million gallons of crude oil any sightings of affected about 60 miles off Galveston. wildlife. 
The tide lifted the two ships “It’s too early to claim victory and they separated shortly yet,” Bryant said. “Right now, after midnight Sunday without there’s no impact in the marsh-more oil being spilled, Coast es and no impact in Keith Lake.” 

Coast Guard officials have said the spill was mostly con­tained in a 2-mile stretch of the Sabine Neches Waterway, which runs along the city of Port Arthur. The area off-limits to ships was extended 18 miles to the Texas Gulf Coast in case of a breach or a wind shift that might complicate containment efforts, Bryant said. 
The Sabine Neches Waterway is the second-largest in Texas, according to the online Handbook of Texas. Bryant said refineries generally are pre­pared for a 72-hour shutdown, which would extend into Tuesday. He said it wasn’t known when the waterway would reopen. 
The tanker is owned by AET Tankers, a Malaysian company with offices in Houston. Patterson said AET would pay for most of the cleanup. A spokesman said the company was working with the Coast Guard on cleanup and assess­ment and referred to Coast Guard officials for further com­ment. 
The ship collided with a tow­ing vessel pushing two barges, leaving a 15-foot-by-8-foot hole in the tanker. During the colli­sion, the towing vessel also hit another tanker that was tied to a pier. Brahm said that tanker sustained some damage, but had no leaks. 
A National Transportation Safety Board spokeswoman said the agency was supporting the Coast Guard investigation but had no further details Sunday. 


Monday, January 25, 2010 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 9 


New FEMA maps full of inaccuracies 
Associated Press 
DES MOINES, Iowa — More than a year and a half after a massive flood left a huge swath of eastern Iowa underwater, the tiny farming community of Oakville is clinging to survival. 
Many of the town’s 400-or-so residents moved on after the June 2008 disaster, leaving local leaders desperate to lure new faces to the community. But they say their efforts are being harmed by an ambitious government initiative to update and digitize the nation’s flood plain maps. 
The Federal Emergency Management Agency started the $200 million-per-year proj­ect in 2004 as a way to utilize advances in mapping technolo­gy to better identify areas sus­ceptible to flooding. FEMA offi­cials say the new maps — some of which have won final approval and others which are still in their preliminary stages 
— will allow for better zoning and help prevent future catas­trophes like the flood in Iowa, which caused an estimated $10 billion of damage. 
But critics, including civic leaders, developers and home owners in several states, have complained that the new maps are riddled with inaccuracies, seem arbitrarily drawn, and will stifle growth and hurt property values. 
“Anyone building new con­struction, they are probably not going to settle here,” said he said. 
“You overlay the maps and it’s just not the same,” Beck said. “It’s in a different loca­tion. 
And the new maps for Barre, Vt., predict that 20 percent more water would enter the city’s business district than the current maps predict, said Mike Miller, the city’s planning director. 
He said the maps will hamper redevelopment projects, and that the city is deciding whether to appeal to change the maps. 
Josh deBerge, a FEMA spokesman based in Kansas City, Mo., said there are few substantial changes in the new FEMA maps, and that any major changes were made because advances in mapping technology allowed for better analysis. 
“When home and business-owners know and understand their risk, they are more likely to take steps to reduce their risk,” deBerge said. 
FEMA welcomes criticism of the digital maps and is open to making changes if a compelling scientific case can be made, deBerge said. 
“What we’re looking for is evidence, a study or survey that would provide more detailed information that can be incor­porated,” deBerge said. 
Generally, it takes about 18 months from the time a prelim­inary map is released to when it takes effect. During that 

Oakville Mayor “Anyone building new time, FEMA Benita Grooms, holds communi­
construction, they are 
who is critical of ty meetings fol­FEMA’s pro-probably not going to lowed a 90-day posed map for settle here. Why appeal process her town. “Why and a FEMA 
would they if they
would they if review of con-they have to have to build their cerns raised 
build their homes up so high and during the homes up so appeals process. 
pay $2,000 for food
high and pay Once an appeal 
insurance?.” 
$2,000 for flood is resolved, insurance?” FEMA issues a 
Doug Boyer, letter of final 
Benita Grooms 
whose home determination 
Mayor 
would be in the and provides the 
Oakville, Iowa 
flood plain for final map to the 

the first time if FEMA’s Oakville map gains final approval, said it’s inexplicable why FEMA extended the flood plain border to the center of Main Street in the relatively flat town. 
“The east side is in the flood plain and the west side is fine 
— it’s odd that the water will stop at Main Street,” Boyer said. 
Garden City, Kan., has sued to prevent FEMA’s proposed map for the city from taking effect. The map for the first time designates areas around two decades-old drainage ditches as flood prone, even though the ditches have never been a problem, said Kaleb Kentner, the city’s community development director. 
Should their challenge fail, the redistricting would force nearly 2,000 homes and busi­nesses into a flood plain and force property owners to buy expensive flood plain insur­ance, Kentner said. 
The proposed digital maps for Linn County, Iowa, are almost unrecognizable, said county planning and zoning director Les Beck. There is a stream that appears on aerial maps that isn’t in the same place on the new digital maps, community. 
If a challenge fails, communities may be stuck changing land use and development plans — a process that could take up to six months before a new map takes effect. 
Residents may have to pay thousands of dollars on surveys to prove they should be exempted from the maps, and in some cases could be forced to elevate their homes. 
John Bishop, a project man­ager for Illinois’ Floodplain Mapping Program, which was contracted to work on that state’s digital maps, said Congress appropriated money for the re-mapping project but not for new engineering stud­ies. 
He said one problem was that FEMA started with maps up to 20 years old, then put them into digital form, making improvements where possible. In some cases, new land devel­opment has changed water flow and runoff patterns since the maps were first drawn. 
But he said most of the prob­lems (in Illinois) have been cor­rected, and that the new maps will be more precise and easier to correct once new data become available. 


HomelessveteranburiedatArlington 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Va. — Ray Vivier had been an adventur­er, a Marine veteran who explored the country from South Carolina to Alaska, the father of five children. 
The 61-year-old also was a man starting to get his life back together after living for years in a shanty beneath a Cleveland bridge. He had struggled with alcoholism, but by November he had a weld­ing job, friends and a place to stay at a boarding house. 
He rescued five people from that house when arsonists set it ablaze — but Vivier couldn’t save himself. He and three others died, and two people have been charged in their deaths. Vivier’s body, unclaimed and unidentified for weeks, seemed destined for an anonymous, modest burial. 
However, Jody Fesco — who met Vivier while she was vol­unteering at a soup kitchen and had even invited him to her wedding — heard that Vivier may have died. Fesco and her husband contacted their friend Haraz Ghanbari, an Associated Press photogra­pher, about the situation. Ghanbari took the lead to make sure Vivier wasn’t for­gotten, tracking down the family members and arrang­ing a proper funeral. 
On Friday, Vivier’s ashes were inurned at Arlington National Cemetery with full military honors. 
“You can see from what he did that he definitely had a good heart,” said Mercedes Cruz, Vivier’s ex-wife of 23 years, who attended the funeral with the couple’s chil­dren. “No matter what our difficulties were in our mar­riage, I’m very proud of what’s happened.” 
For his grown children — who now are scattered around the country — Vivier had been gone for about 15 years. They know of his heroism now — but they don’t know much about the man he was trying to become. They remember their dad’s struggles with alcohol and other troubles. 
“What I’m trying to get out of this is to have one good, concrete memory that I can have of him for what he did to save those people,” said his oldest daughter, Elisha Vivier. “I’m proud of the man that he was becoming.” 
Vivier was a private in the 
U.S. Marine Corps in 1965 and 1966, though he didn’t see combat. He was stationed at Parris Island, S.C., Cruz said. 
After his discharge, Vivier spent years working as a machinist, welder, iron work­er and other tough jobs. He loved the outdoors and moved his family from Alaska to Oregon. 
“He was just adventurous,” Cruz said. “He loved to see different places and see what it was like to live there.” 
When he was homeless in Cleveland, he was proud to have one of the best shanties around, said Fesco, 29, who met Vivier at a soup kitchen. 
“We hit if off right away,” she said. 
She took Vivier home for Christmas one year and later invited him to her wedding. Vivier was genuine, she said, “a real gentle spirit. 
“He was trying to get him­self out of some struggles — some struggles with alcohol — and just do better for himself, and he was, which was fan­tastic,” Fesco said. 
Ghanbari, who is an ensign in the U.S. Navy, helped arrange for Vivier’s remains to be placed in a columbarium wall at Arlington National Cemetery. The site overlooks the Pentagon with the National Cathedral and Washington Monument in the distance. 
At the military service, seven Marines fired three rifle shots, and a bugler played taps. Elisha Vivier carried a gold urn with her father’s ashes to the wall and placed them inside, alongside the remains of thousands of veter­ans. 
Ray Vivier was quiet, friends said, but people knew who he was. Cleveland City Councilman Joe Cimperman met Vivier years ago while working as a social worker. He said Vivier was quiet, yet kind and compassionate. More than 125 people attended a memorial service weeks after the fire in Cleveland. 
“It was a huge blow for the community. This was one of our neighbors who people cared about and knew,” Cimperman said. “We’re less because he’s gone.” 


TSA worker pranks student 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — A col­lege student returning to school after the winter break fell victim to a prank at Philadelphia’s airport by a Transportation Security Administration worker who pretended to plant a plastic bag of white powder in her carryon luggage. 
The worker is no longer employed by the TSA after the incident this month, a spokeswoman said. 
Rebecca Solomon, 22, a University of Michigan stu­dent, wrote in a column for her campus newspaper that she was having her bags screened on Jan. 5 before her flight to Detroit when the employee stopped her, reached into her laptop com­puter bag and pulled out the plastic bag, demanding to know where she had gotten the powder. 
In the Jan. 10 column for The Michigan Daily, she recounted how she struggled to come up with an explana­tion, wondering if it was bomb-detonating material slipped in by a terrorist or drugs put there by a smug­gler. 
“He let me stutter through an explanation for the longest minute of my life,” Solomon wrote. “Tears streamed down my face as I pleaded with him to under­stand that I’d never seen this baggie before.” 
A short time later, she said, the worker smiled and said it was his. 
The worker “waved the baggie at me and told me he was kidding, that I should’ve seen the look on my face,” she said. 
Solomon said she asked to speak to a supervisor and filled out a complaint, and during that process was told that the man was training TSA workers to detect con­traband. Two days later, she said, she was told he had been disciplined. 
“I had been terrified and disrespected by an airport employee,” she said. “He’d joked about the least funny thing in air travel.” 
There was no answer Saturday at a telephone list­ing for Solomon at the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. An e-mail mes­sage seeking comment from her was sent Saturday by The Associated Press, and a telephone message was left at her parents’ home in sub­urban Philadelphia. 
TSA spokeswoman Suzanne Trevino said late Saturday that the employee was no longer with the agency but did not say whether he had been fired or quit, referring only to “disciplinary action” taken by the TSA. She also declined to identify the worker or his job title, citing privacy laws. She said she did not know whether his actions would be subject to criminal charges. 
“The behavior exhibited by this TSA employee was high­ly inappropriate and unpro­fessional,” Trevino said in a statement. 
The Observer 


Viewpoint 

page 10 Monday, January 25, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 


ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 



Covert Innsbruck decision a disservice to German department 
Last Monday, the University announced its decision to cancel its study abroad pro­gram in Innsbruck, Austria. The facts are few and repeated; the Innsbruck program was founded in 1964 and is Notre Dame’s oldest study abroad program, over these 45 years there have been more than 1,400 stu­dent participants, it was canceled due to lack of interest and Berlin is a cultural hot-spot of prestige to which the University would Jackie much rather send its 

Mirandola 
students. 
Mullen
As an alumna of Innsbruck, I do not Freckled support the Thoughts University’s decision to cancel its most tradition-seeped pro­gram. 
The city of Innsbruck itself has unique qualities that separate the Innsbruck pro­gram from nearly every other Notre Dame study abroad program. Innsbruck’s quaint valley population is approximately 120,000 — 22,000 of whom are students and academics. It is truly a university town, as it has been since the University’s founding by the Jesuits in 1669. Innsbruck’s rich theological history edu­cated the minds of Karl Rahner and Raymund Schwager, and its continued Catholic character provides foreign stu­dents like me a community through Catholic organizations at the University. 
Beyond my obvious bias to the commu­nity spirituality, and beauty of the city, I believe the decision to cancel the Innsbruck Program could cause serious problems for Notre Dame’s German Department. Innsbruck is a welcoming, small city where students feel a part of the experience and can treat the province Tirol like home. Because of this, many students who return to America apply for Fulbrights, Fulbright Teaching Assistantships, internships, jobs and other research positions in Germany or Austria. The majority of students in the past three years who have participated in these prestigious (to use a favorite word of the administration) undertakings have stud­ied through the Innsbruck program before deciding to apply. 
Berlin’s program could perhaps pro­mote the same drive to return and under­take higher-level projects, yes, but the minimal interest in the program suggests that the numbers of German students to go on in such pursuits would never meet current numbers without the Innsbruck program encouraging German language development. One fact that has been ostentatiously missing from all articles and press releases is the current interest in the Berlin program; enrollment has oscillated between three and five students per year for the past three years. 
During my time in Innsbruck, I experi­enced academic frustrations that arose from the limitations that the Office of International Studies (OIS) places on its students. Before going to Innsbruck, I had taken German for seven years and also lived in northern Germany, setting my language at the C1 level that the European Union requires one to attain before attempting university study in a language other than your own. However, OIS allows students to take only Notre Dame-offered courses in the fall semester, which are still in German and taught by Innsbruck Professors, but are with only other Notre Dame students. Because my language was at a different level than other students, in my fall Notre Dame classes I was bored, unchallenged, frus­trated — all symptoms arising from what Mr. David Younger from OIS cited as the less “demanding” academic qualities of the Innsbruck program. 
He is certainly right; the academic por­tion was not quite as demanding as a Notre Dame education. But to fix this, all OIS needs to do is allow students with the language competency at the beginning of the year to enroll in normal University of Innsbruck courses (currently, students are allowed to enroll in one or two Innsbruck courses, but only in the spring semester). The academic challenge would then increase for those students who have more experience with the language, and the challenging opportunity for German-language beginners in the Notre Dame Innsbruck program would continue, as well. Enrollment issues solved. 
When I spoke to OIS last fall about my frustrations, I was told I could transfer to Berlin. However, I preferred the small mountain city of Innsbruck — and the companionship of my host family — to liv­ing alone in a huge metropolis. Our pro­gram director, an Innsbruck Professor who has led the Notre Dame program for 20 years along with his wife, could not help me beyond contacting Notre Dame or comforting me, due to hand-tying by OIS. 
This same man was not informed of the decision to cancel the Innsbruck program until the day of Notre Dame’s press release to the world. Never have I been so ashamed of Notre Dame — that lack of respect is unacceptable to show anyone, much less someone who has devoted 20 years of his life to making a program excel beyond Notre Dame’s standards in ways that the Ivy-chasing administration would not understand. I turned down Ivies to go here because I thought Notre Dame’s Catholic character fostered a sense of respect for fellow human beings that no other American University matched. Perhaps the Administration feels decency is not important when nego­tiating with other first-world citizens. I respectfully disagree. 
I never thought I would so adamantly argue for Innsbruck, but if the only option students will have to study German is in a huge metropolis, the future German Department enrollment will suffer. Improving the Innsbruck program would have helped the German Department and Notre Dame students far more than shaft­ing it in a secretive and dishonest way. I and many other alumni of the Innsbruck program are ashamed of our University’s decision and we urge its rethinking — while fully aware of the apparent futility of this request. 
Jackie Mirandola Mullen is a senior history and German major who studied abroad in Innsbruck, Austria last year. She would like to dedicate this article to Prof. Gernot Gürtler. You can reach her at jmirando@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Not our place to judge 
Sometimes it takes a Viewpoint letter to bring about clarity. I would like to thank Patrick McHugh for his erudite letter about forgiveness (“Forgive and forget,” Jan. 22). For the past week, I have been more annoyed than anything else about the comic hoopla, but I am now writing my own letter of support for adding sexual orientation to Notre Dame’s anti-discrimination clause. While I will never wear a shirt that says, “Gay? Fine by me,” I don’t believe it is my place, nor Notre Dame’s, to be judge of morality. And let us be honest: The only thing holding Notre Dame back is moral judgment. 
Adding sexual orientation to an anti-discrimination clause is not an endorsement of alternative lifestyles, but rather one of the most Christian acts we can do. If we are following the example of Christ, then we should love each other, not judge one another. Each of us will one day have to give an account to God of our actions; I would rather be known as a lover of people than an aloof, “righteous” person who casts moral judgments at others. 
Christians should be especially cognizant of the specter of dis­crimination, for since the time of Christ, Christians themselves have been persecuted. Jesus taught us to love our neighbors as ourselves. So I will love my neighbor, too, no matter his or her race, religion, color, national origin, age, sex, marital status, vet­eran status, any disability he or she may have and no matter his or her sexual orientation. 
While I do not believe the comic strip in question was an out­right attack, but rather a misguided attempt at humor, I believe now is the perfect moment for the University of Notre Dame to open its loving arms to all people and add sexual orientation to its anti-discrimination clause. 

Jonathan Sarna 
senior off campus Jan. 22 

News Viewpoint 
Katie Peralta Lianna QUOTE OF THE DAY 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Irena Zajickova Brauweiler Kristin Durbin Sports Graphics Laura Myers “Our current obsession with creativity is the result of our
Mary Cecilia Molly Sammon 
“Experience is a good school,continued striving for immortality but the fees are high.” 

Mitsch Matt Robison 
in an era when most people noScene longer believe in an after-life.” 
Heinrich Heine
Caitlin Ferraro 
German literary critic 

Jess Shaffer Arianna Stassinopoulosco-founder of The Huffington Post 
The Observer 





Viewpoint 

Monday, January 25, 2010 page 11 
A foreign new policy 

A spectre is haunting Notre Dame — the spectre of defeatism. And it seems all the powers of old Notre Dame capa­ble of exorcising it have been turned out or tuned out with no trace of the spirit of their once-conta­gious commitment 
Tim Dougherty 
to excellence. 

There once was a time when the con-Guest Column cept of Notre Dame passing on a highly-ranked team evoked memories of Dorais to Rockne or Hanratty to Seymour. Now the words regularly appear in news clippings about abortive scheduling efforts from the athletic directors of Alabama and Miami — or even Wisconsin and Minnesota. Just last week, Irish Athletic Director Jack Swarbrick confirmed in an interview with the South Bend Tribune’s Eric Hansen that Notre Dame is more inter­ested in playing Duke and Wake Forest than, say, Texas or Tennessee. 
Although this recent philosophical shift is marketed as a symbolic effort to be a shining light atop the hill for col­lege athletics by playing teams that “look like us,” ostensibly it’s a retreat to a perceived position of greater conven­ience. After more than a decade of mis­management of the football program, it rings of (this might sound familiar) an ordinate fear of the imagined cost of football excellence, a crisis of confi­dence made even more grave by the covert pessimism of Notre Dame’s lead­ers. And more importantly, it cowers to the false choice that Notre Dame foot­ball has forever dedicated its existence to reject. 
Notre Dame football was once a wit­ness to the fullest measure of its univer­sity mission as an unabashedly religious university committed to excellence in all its endeavors, both academic and ath­letic. Although it’s true that the Big XII and SEC powers have never fully embraced both missions, neither have Duke or Wake Forest football. (And it’s worth noting that Duke already uproot­ed its religious origins.) But the tradi­tion of Notre Dame football — a tradi­tion that arched the back from which a world-class academic institution later spread its wings — was built by a cham­pion spirit that established and defend­ed its excellence by challenging and defeating the best teams in the country. The legacy began with its first game against regional power Michigan in 1888 and the historic trip to West Point in 1916. In addition to its traditional rivalry games, the indomitable spirit manifested itself in the first famed Game of the Century at Ohio State in 1935 and by ending the sport’s longest winning streak in 1957 at Oklahoma. It was that spirit Lou Holtz credited for outdueling Miami in 1988 and that upended an irreverent Seminole squad in 1993. 
To adapt a phrase from Fr. Hesburgh, there’s no academic virtue in beating teams that don’t make the same com­mitment to football as in academics, and there’s no academic vice in whipping a top-ranked team that eschews its educa­tional responsibilities. In fact, there is no greater testament to the success of our university’s mission than to do just that, as Notre Dame has done through­out its existence. That is, unless the virtue of strongly standing across from one’s opponents that was boasted about last May applies only to politics. 
In between building straw men out of its critics’ passionate but reasoned objections, the Notre Dame athletic administration has preoccupied itself by pulling the wool over the eyes of its faithful by building up the merits of the MAC like Moody’s propping three As under a mortgage-backed security. In part, it’s an inevitable public relations necessity of supporting a short-sighted 7-4-1 scheduling model that — apart from cowardly attempting to schedule success instead of earning it — leaves no room for the intuitively exciting national matchups that were and will still be necessary to maintain a thriving national product. What is the purpose of Notre Dame’s treasured independence when the only flexibility in its schedule lies in which also-ran to fill its “buy” games? After such an abrupt retreat from the deep-rooted confidence in our institutional values that other Irish ath­letic administrations ensured were exemplified through the success of the football program, one can’t help but wonder if the entire goal of this endeav­or to make us ask that question. 
While Notre Dame’s savvy sports mar­keters imagine themselves to be the next George Strickler or Roger Valdiserri, our financial leaders seem oblivious to the fact that as they slash and burn through their “college football landscape” in the effort to maximize revenue they are slowly destroying the game’s most valuable brand as they allow the virtues that formed its founda­tion to crumble from within. It won’t happen overnight, but sooner or later, they will run out of suckers willing to hand over their cash for a cut-rate com­mitment to football excellence. They can just as easily find that at Duke or Wake Forest. 
Tim Dougherty is an alumnus of the class of 2007 and a former Observer sports writer. He can be reached at timothy.c.dougherty@googlemail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Keep ‘The Shirt’ kelly-green 

This one will be short and sweet. Stop changing the color of “The Shirt” every year. Keep it kelly-green permanently (similar to the color the students wear to the basketball games), not only for the obvious reasons that we are the “Irish” and our coach is named “Kelly,” but so that all Notre Dame fans can finally have a uniform color to wear to the games, rather than some wearing blue, some gold, some green (including different shades of the same), or even white and, more recently, with the stu­dent section wearing a shade of yellow or even tan. Having a uniform fan color will also allow alumni to invest in kelly­green-colored coats or jerseys, which they will obviously need for the cold-weather games. We simply can’t expect alumni to go out and purchase new coats or jerseys each year, just so they can be sure to match the ever-changing color of The Shirt. 
And I don’t want to hear that I am suggesting we eliminate the creativity of The Shirt. No one outside of the Notre Dame community thinks we are being creative by changing the color of The Shirt each year. More importantly, The Shirt Committee will still have responsi­bility for determining what is written on the front and back of The Shirt each year, so it’s not like we will have abro­gated them of all responsibility. (Although I personally think The Shirt Committee has just about run out of clever things to pen on The Shirt each year.) 
Let’s get a uniform kelly-green color going in the stands so that visiting teams know that they are playing at Notre Dame Stadium and so that, when the team hits the road, the football team will be able to easily identify the bright kelly-green color of “the Notre Dame section” in the stands, to know that their loyal fans are there to cheer them on. 
Please have kelly-green-colored Shirts there for us to purchase at the Spring Game. Please. 
Jim Blase 
alumnus Law School class of 1981 Jan. 24 


Sexuality a gift 
It has become painfully apparent since Jan. 13 that our community is not yet the Christian witness we hope to be. Many have noted an ele­ment of community as well as indi­vidual culpability; consequently, I am writing in the hope that our community, each of us, be a witness of truth in love. 
There are two positions which we, as a community, must reject in order to promote the happiness and fulfillment of all persons, especially those with homosexual inclinations. The first is the tolerance of any kind of threat, violence or prejudicial behavior toward any person. We recognize that true Christian wit­ness not only rejects prejudice but in its fullness participates in rela­tionships of friendship freely given and freely received, especially among those in most need of our love. 
The second is the reduction of sex­ual orientation to a quality compa­rable to race or ethnic background in regard to nondiscrimination. We should know and bear witness that as Christians we see sexuality as a gift more dignified and precious even than the gift of language and culture. As a universal and visible sign that human beings are ordered toward communion with one anoth­er in love, our reduction of sexuality to any other quality would put at great risk our capacity to love our friends and neighbors with wonder and gratitude at the whole of their person. 
Creation is a free act on the part of our Creator; its only motivation is love. The nobility of sexuality comes from its cooperation in this entirely free act. Therefore, unlike ethnicity, human sexuality is to be carefully used, with freedom in love, rather than enslavement to desire. The inclusion of “sexual orientation” to the clause implies that it does not require us to exercise our moral freedom and that human sexuality does not in some way demand our choice in how we receive and cher­ish our gift. 
As our community mourns this betrayal of safety and peace, let us take a moment to consider that free­dom rests not in speaking and act­ing in any manner at all, rather only in a manner worthy of the gifts we have received. 


Sarah Johnson 
junior Lyons Hall Jan. 24 


Larger issue at hand 
Dear Patrick McHugh (“Forgive and forget,” Jan. 22), 
This cartoon (“Mobile Party,” Jan. 13) is not just an offensive joke. It signifies a much larger issue for all of Notre Dame. While I agree with you that “being made fun of sucks,” this is not the same as someone calling you ugly or saying you have weird clothes. It is not funny to joke about hurting someone. There is never a justifi­cation for violence. What if the joke had been made about violence towards Jewish people, or African-Americans? Surely you would realize that this is not an issue you can just brush under the rug and forget about. This is a serious issue on campus that needs to be addressed. The hate crimes and discrimination towards gays is unacceptable. As Christians, we are taught to love and accept others. Changes must be made before such a disturbing issue, which goes against everything Jesus taught us, can simply be forgotten. 
Jillian Hirsch 
sophomore Pasquerilla West Hall Jan. 23 
See those cute blue bins everywhere around campus? Those are for recycling. 

Go ahead. Make their day. Recycle. 
The Observer 




Scene

page 12 Monday, January 25, 2010 

By NICHOLAS ANDERSON 
Scene Writer 
One of the most fascinating concepts of the entertainment industry is the idea of an artist’s early work. Art snobs infallibly love any popu­lar artist’s early work. There is often great merit to this love. Although they are stuck with a low budget and questionable surrounding tal­ent, creative genius, incredible energy and an unjaded vision shine through in these B movies. Working through the back catalogues of vision­ary directors like Sam Rami or Christopher Nolan will undoubtedly reward the viewer. 
However, this is not always the case. Sometimes the early work of an artist is down­right embarrassing. See Justin Timberlake’s work with N’Sync or Dr. Dre as a member of World Class Wreckin’ Cru. There is a third, much more rare possibility; the early work is just confusing. This is the case with the master­ful Peter Jackson. 
Jackson started his career scrapping money together in New Zealand to create low-budget horror films. Among the best of these was the oddly-titled zombie flick “Dead Alive.” Treasured by horror buffs, this plot-light, blood-heavy film has carved its own niche in the already crowded cult movie scene. Like many cult classics, a small but disproportion­ately vocal group of fans champion the merits of this exercise in gore. 
The narrative is a timeless story. Lionel, the unassuming protagonist, is a young man thor­oughly devoted to his mother, reminiscent of “Psycho’s” Norman Bates. When a hybrid rat monkey bites his controlling and manipulative mother, Lionel is forced to continue caring for her with heavy tranquilizers, sedating her to keep her from eating both him and others. As will happen, a single zombie quickly grows into a horde including a local hoodlum, a kung-fu fighting priest and an infant. Lionel’s zombie zoo is discovered by his uncle, who turns the situation to his advantage through blackmail. As more zombies are created, violence soon becomes the only feasible solution. 

Jackson shows a deep appreciation for the slasher films of the 80s, liberally applying gore in every scene possible. What is missing in character development and a coherent plot and a special effects budget is replaced by copious amounts of fake blood. While multiple films have claimed to be the goriest film ever made, “Dead Alive” makes a strong claim to that title, utilizing more fake blood than any movie to date. 
The film itself contains many remarkable moments that sit on the line between horror and comedy: scenes of zombie digestive sys­tems, slap stick violence, a prominently fea­tured garden gnome and a climax heavily dependent on a helpfully placed lawnmower. Embodied in these moments is the B movie majesty so loved by horror fans. 
For the unfamiliar, horror movies share a commonality with country music. Both are rich in history and deeply loved, but lack critical recognition and are near inaccessible to a wide stream audience. In the realm of horror movies, “Dead Alive” is George Jones. Unapologetic and unappealing, but loved for exactly what it is. 
“Dead Alive” is exactly what one would expect of a movie that was sold in many places in a combo pack with vomit bags. While it gives no indication of the man who would direct the most epic trilogy in film 15 years later, it occu­pies its own special place in the horror cannon. Never widely popular, influential or important, it aspires to be nothing more than a cinematic feast in gore; a blood-filled experiment of film making. For those fans with an affection for methodical mutilation, mindless violence and unceremonious zombie death, a viewing of “Dead Alive” is akin to catching a glimpse of the Holy Grail. 
Contact Nicholas Anderson at nanders5@nd.edu 

The Observer 


Scene

Monday, January 25, 2010 page 13 


By ADRIANA PRATT 
Assistant Scene Editor 
From passive political patron to passionate justice torchbearer, Robert F. Kennedy’s life of transforma­tion and maturation showed how one man’s dedication to greatness could affect the lives of millions and alter the course of a nation. L.A. Theatre Works’ original pro­duction, “RFK: The Journey to Justice” took a unique approach to depicting the life of one of America’s heroes and successfully showed the important role Kennedy played in the attainment of civil rights. 
Though not as famous as his presidential brother John, Robert Kennedy’s involvement in the chase for racial equality was crucial to bringing the issue to the forefront of poli­tics. The L.A. Theatre Works’ presentation showed how Kennedy’s behind-the-scenes involvement began solely for the purpose of winning John votes and ended as the pri­mary focus of his own political career. 
The play’s raw approach to the story of “Bobby” was unusual, but interesting. Instead of putting on a per­formance full of set changes and elaborate costumes, “RFK: The Journey to Justice” was presented as a radio docudra­ma, the style of theatre L.A. Theatre Works is known for. 
The sound effects were cre­ated by a man who sat on stage, both he and his equip­ment visible to the audience. The actors carried their scripts to the string of spot lit microphones and flipped the pages as they recited their parts. The overall result was that one could close his eyes and feel the story come to life without relying on visual images for reinforcement. 
At first, the approach seemed a little unprofessional because it did not require the actors to memorize their lines (though most did) and also took away the magic of behind-the-scenes effects. Once audience members moved past those details, how­ever, they quickly and easily became enveloped in the scenes of 60s politics and interracial interactions. 
The writers of the play, Murray Horwitz and Jonathan Estrin, produced a script that highlighted Kennedy’s initial naïveté, humility, persever­ance and humor and brought to life each major character that played a part in the devel­opment of civil rights. Since the play used conversation as its central medium, the script was the most crucial aspect of the show. Horwitz and Estrin did not disappoint. 
The actors, who mimicked Bostonian and Latino accents and even perfected the unmis­takable tones of Lyndon B. Johnson and Martin Luther King, Jr., made it easy to for­get that they were solely imita­tors of real men and women. Henry Clarke (RFK) mastered the expressions and inflections of Bobby and even had the hair to match. Kevin Daniels (MLK) powerfully bellowed the words of King, exciting both his fellow actors and the audi­ence. Some actors played mul­tiple personas, but their talent and slight prop change kept audiences from being con­fused. 
The best part of the per­formance was the historical value. Because of its intimate style, the audience felt like they were getting the inside scoop on the true persona of Bobby Kennedy and seeing first-hand his challenging interactions with national fig­ures on both sides of the civil rights’ spectrum. It was easy to see how he began as a cru­sader for John’s political career, pulling strings and appeasing leaders for votes, then blossomed into a crusad­er for an even more challeng­ing cause. Once he visited the downtrodden and discriminat­ed and saw life in their shoes, there was no turning back. 
“RFK: The Journey to Justice” reminds audiences that it is never too late to sym­pathize with and show com­passion for humanity. Taking a step back from distracting goal-oriented details that pre­vent us from seeing the big picture will ultimately allow us to realize the purpose of our existence. For Bobby, his was to change the world. 
Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 



Unfortunately last Thursday night, the fist pumping came to an end. MTV’s surprise hit “Jersey Shore” only had nine episodes, but it will leave an ever­lasting legacy on our generation. While some Italian-Americans may be horri­fied by the image of Guidos and Guidettes presented, this trashy reality show is really one big joke. 
The cast of course fails to represent all Italian-Americans, but they never fail to bring laughter every week. What are we to do without The Situation and his self-absorbed, outrageous com­ments every week? The cast of charac­ters range from the cocky Mike “The Situation” to the peanut sized, orange Nicole “Snooki,” to the tough Jenni “J-Woww” with the powerful left hook. 
Of course one would be remiss to for­get DJ extraordinaire and perennial wingman Pauly D and the youngster of the group Vinny. And the group is rounded out by the constantly on and off again couple of Ronnie and Sammi “Sweetheart.” The nicknames alone demonstrate the genius of this show. 
The season has brought us many 

After all the time, we, the viewers, spent with our new crazy Italian family it was hard to part ways with them last week. However, the finale did not dis­appoint. We were left with the hilarious hot tub hook up of The Situation and Snooki, and the heartbreaking on-air break-up of Ronnie and Sammi on the reunion show. Is it wrong that we were sad to see their pairing end even after all of the ridiculous problems they have had? After fiascos like Sammi’s big Flintstone toe, Mike’s attempts to break them up or nights spent in jail you would think these two could make it. 
The show has spawned a phenome­non, with the cast making pricey appearances at nightclubs all over the 
U.S. They have also made their way all over the talk show route (during which Mike dubbed Conan O’Brien “The Solution”), and Snooki has even been immortalized on “Saturday Night Live.” 
While we wait for (hopefully) a sec­ond season, we can enjoy the “Shore’s” ridiculousness with endless MTV reruns. 


Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrar1@nd.edu 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Monday, January 25, 2010 
NHL 


Ward, Jokinen lead Hurricanes’ victory over Bruins 
Nabokov has 38 saves during Sharks’ defeat of Sabres; early goals from Sedin, Bernier help Canucks beat Hawks 
Boston since Feb. 12, 2008. Sharks 5, Sabres 2 

Associated Press 
Carolina didn’t claim any points Joe Pavelski’s second goal of 

RALEIGH, N.C. — Cam Ward against the Bruins last season, the game broke a tie midway broke the franchise victory but did eliminate them in over-through the third period and record, and Jussi Jokinen had a time in Game 7 in the second Evgeni Nabokov made 38 saves goal and two assists in the round of the Eastern to lead the San Jose Sharks to Carolina Hurricanes’ 5-1 victory Conference playoffs. their fifth straight victory over over the Boston Bruins on Rask finished with four saves the Buffalo Sabres on Saturday Sunday night. and allowed LaRose’s goal in night. 
Ward, who entered tied with the opening minute of the third Jed Ortmeyer scored twice Arturs Irbe atop the for Boston, which has its and Dany Heatley also had a Hartford/Carolina’s victory list, longest losing streak since goal for the Sharks, who won made 27 saves for his 131st vic-dropping six straight from Dec. for the 16th time in 19 games tory with the Hurricanes and 18-29, 2007. despite being outshot 40-24. helped them snap a six-game This one was all Carolina, The credit for the win goes to regular-season losing streak with Jokinen playing a part in Nabokov, who weathered an against Boston. the first three goals. early Buffalo barrage to kept 
Ray Whitney and Brandon He did most of the hard work the Sharks in the game and Sutter each had a goal and an on Carolina’s second goal, split-delivered the key saves whenev­assist, Eric Staal and Chad ting two Bruins to chase down er San Jose needed them. LaRose also scored and Joni Pitkanen’s long pass down the Nabokov has allowed only eight Pitkanen had two assists for the center of the ice and then drew goals in his past seven starts, Hurricanes. They scored three Thomas’ attention before back-playing his best hockey of the goals in 6:36 span and led 5-0 handing a pass at the last season with the Olympics just a in the opening minute of the instant to Staal. Carolina’s new couple of weeks away. third period. captain then buried the puck He helped kill a two-man 
David Krejci scored for the into an open net to make it 2-0 advantage in the second period Bruins, who have their first about 4½ minutes into the sec-with help from a couple of shots five-game losing streak in more ond. that banged off posts. The fans than two years. Making matters worse for started chanting “Nabby! 
The Hurricanes also escaped Boston, defenseman Matt Nabby!” after one particularly the NHL’s cellar. They have 39 Hunwick was called for hooking strong glove save against for-points — one more than during that sequence to give the mer teammate Craig Rivet in the Sharks were opportunistic twin brother Henrik with 1:26 Edmonton. Hurricanes another power play. the third period. in the second. Manny Malhotra left as the No. 1 line combined 
Tim Thomas stopped 11 shots The Bruins killed it, but 3 sec-Nabokov will likely start in got them started with strong for nine points. Alex Burrows and was replaced by Tuukka onds after Hunwick left the Vancouver for the Russians next forechecking. He stole a puck had three assists to extend his Rask with 8:58 left in the sec-penalty box, Jokinen snapped month, while Buffalo’s Ryan from Steve Montador and then point streak to 11 games (13 ond after allowing four goals. the puck past Thomas to make Miller is expected to be the No. fed Pavelski for the tying goal goals, 5 assists). Henrik has an Sutter beat Thomas from close it 3-0. 1 U.S. goalie. While Russia and early in the second. NHL-leading point total to 74. range to make it 4-0 after he Jokinen also contributed to the U.S. are in different groups, Joe Thornton then set up the Chicago backup Antii Niemi took a feed from Whitney, who Whitney’s goal, which got the the two goalies could meet go-ahead goal when he spun got consecutive starts ahead of had used a highlight-reel juke rout started about 8 minutes in. again in the medal round. around in the corner and fired No. 1 goalie Cristobal Huet for to get past Norris Trophy-win-After Thomas left the net open Nabokov got the best of this a backhand pass right to the first time all season, but ning defenseman Zdeno Chara. with an ill-advised poke-check meeting. Heatley’s stick in front of the didn’t last long. Huet started 
By then, the Hurricanes were attempt, Whitney tapped it in Nabokov allowed a first-peri-net. Heatley deflected the puck the second period after Niemi well on their way to their first for his 16th goal and fourth in od goal to Tim Connolly and through Miller’s legs for his gave up three goals on 12 regular-season victory against his last five home games. then a power-play goal to Jason 30th goal, marking the sixth shots. 
Pominville 18 seconds into the time he has reached that mark. The Canucks were missing third that tied the game at 2. The Sabres dominated the top-4 defensemen Sami Salo Pominville’s backhander first period, outshooting the (groin), Willie Mitchell (upper deflected in off Nabokov’s skate. Sharks 14-5 and scoring the body) and Kevin Bieksa (lacer-The Sharks had killed all 33 only goal off a broken play. ated ankle tendons), and was power plays over the past 19 After Thornton turned the puck outshot 44-28 by the NHL’s games before allowing that over in the defensive zone, third highest scoring team. goal. Connolly took a pass from Still, Vancouver led 3-0 after 20 
It didn’t end up costing them Pominville for his 13th goal, minutes. when Pavelski delivered the extending his point streak to 15 Samuelsson opened the scor­game-winner 6:41 into the games. ing 7:19 in after a great play by third. Miller made the initial Ryan Kesler, who hit the post save on Devin Setoguchi’s shot, Canucks 5, Blackhawks 1 off the rush and chased down but Pavelski got to the loose Mikael Samuelsson, Henrik the loose puck at the side of the puck in the crease and poked it Sedin and Steve Bernier scored net. He batted it through the home for his eighth career two-in the first period and Roberto crease to leave Samuelsson goal game. Luongo made 43 saves in the with an open net. 
Ortmeyer scored two goals in Vancouver Canucks’ win over Henrik Sedin doubled the the final 10 minutes to put the the Chicago Blackhawks on lead 3:02 later after his sharp-game away, including an Saturday night. angle shot from Niemi’s left empty-netter with 1 minute Chicago captain Jonathan was stopped. He continued remaining. Toews scored 3:30 into the behind the net as the puck 
The Sabres have lost three third period, but Henrik Sedin trickled off the goalie and games in California in five days, added his second goal 32 sec-through the crease, emerging also losing in Anaheim on onds later. Vancouver won its at the other side to knock it in. Tuesday and in a shootout to fourth straight to move into a After Patrick Kane rang a Los Angeles on Thursday. tie with Colorado atop the shot off the post behind Luongo Buffalo wraps up a season-high Northwest Division. a minute later, Bernier scored seven-game road trip Monday Daniel Sedin, who also had his first goal in 11 games to in Vancouver. two assists, rounded out the make it 3-0 with 1:38 left in the 
Trailing 1-0 after one period, scoring on a 2-on-1 pass from first. 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 



CLASSIFIEDS 

Luxury 2 Bed 2 Full Bath Schwab from NY -Justin is the ugly girl in the movie Ding dong. Apartments who takes off her glasses Who's there?
FOR RENT PERSONAL Call Dad! and she's hot. KGB. 
For IMMEDIATE Move In! And you realize she was always hot Dwight, Answer the Door. 
Full Size Washer and Dryer, I love you so much, and you hurt she was just wearing glasses. I’m not answering the door. HOUSE FOR RENT Optional Fireplace, Dishwasher, UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do me every day. And that you were the blind one. Answer the door. $500/PERSON Walk In Closets, Awesome not go it alone. Notre Dame has ——————————————— He's the most important thing in my Ding dong. 2 FULL BATHS Floorplan For Roomates! many resources in place to assist If you or someone you care about life right now. No way. It's the KGB. 4 BDRM you. If you or someone you love has been sexually assaulted, ——————————————— Ding dong. 
Call Today For Discounted ND needs confidential support or assis-we can help. Ralph is my best friend. I'm not answering that! **WALK TO ND** Student Pricing! tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at We met in a shoe store. [Dwight and Michael start arguing 
1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For For more information, as Jim is still ringing the doorbell] 54650 WILLIS 574-256-1350. more information, visit ND's web visit Notre Dame's website: I heard him asking for a shoe that Yes you're going to! CALL —————————————— site: could increase his speed, and not I'm not going to answer if it's the 574-277-8471 gradrentals.viewwork.com http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu http.csap.nd.edu leave any tracks. KGB!--KGB we wait for no one! ——————————————— ———————————————-——————————————— ———————————————-——————————————— ——————————————— 


Around t eNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Monday, January 25, 2010 
page 15 


Men’s Indoor Track and Field Division I Rankings 
team previous 
1 Florida State 3 2 Florida 2 3 Oregon 1 4 Nebraska 5 5 Arkansas 8 6 Oklahoma 16 7 Arizona State 5 8 Texas A&M 9 9 LSU 4 10 Minnesota 14 11 Baylor 5 12 South Carolina 20 13 Virginia Tech 22 14 Texas Tech 13 15 Auburn NR 16 Stanford 11 17 Kentucky 19 18 Washington State NR 19 Georgia NR 20 California 12 21 Oklahoma State NR 22 Kansas State 16 23 New Mexico 16 24 Wisconsin NR 25 Kansas NR 

Women’s Indoor Track and Field Division I Rankings 
team  previous  
1  Texas A&M  2  
2  Oregon  9  
3  LSU  6  
4  Florida State  8  
5  BYU  3  
6  Florida  12  
7  South Carolina  12  
8  Washington  NR  
9  Clemson  NR  
10  Penn State  7  
11  Nebraska  NR  
12  Tennessee  1  
13  Virginia Tech  NR  
14  Connecticut  NR  
15  Texas  4  
16  Baylor  NR  
17  Arkansas  20  
18  Louisville  22  
19  Illinois  NR  
20  Indiana State  22  
21  Oklahoma  NR  
22  West Virginia  NR  
23  Southern Illinois  NR  
24  North Carolina  12  
25  UTEP  NR  




around the dial 
College Basketball 
Georgetown at Syracuse 7 p.m., ESPN 
NHL 


Penguins at Rangers 7 p.m., Versus 
MLB 





Nolan Ryan group to buy Rangers 
Associated Press 
Tom Hicks has agreed to sell the Texas Rangers to a group that includes Hall of Fame pitcher Nolan Ryan. 
The sides announced Saturday night that they had finally reached an agree­ment, eight days after a 30­day exclusive negotiating window expired. The group is headed by Pittsburgh sports attorney Chuck Greenberg. 
“Together, we have worked exhaustively since last month to attain this agreement,” Hicks said in a statement. “It’s a complex business deal that positions the franchise positively for the future.” 
The purchase price is expected to be more than $500 million. 
The next step is the deal has to be reviewed by base­ball’s executive and owner­ship committees. Then at least 75 percent of baseball owners would have to approve the transfer of own­ership from Hicks to Greenberg’s group. 
A group of 40 lenders hold­ing debt from Hicks Sports Group also has to approve. 
There is a chance the deal could be approved before the April 5 opener, though the process could continue into the season. 
Hicks Sports Group default­ed early last year on $525 million in loans tied to the Rangers and the NHL’s Dallas Stars, which Hicks has owned since 1996. Hicks has 
IN BRIEF 
Golfer wins award for scorecard confession 
MOUNT GILEAD, Ohio — A score­card confession that cost an Ohio high school golfer the state champi­onship five years ago has earned him a national sportsmanship of the decade award. 
Adam Van Houten (HOW’-ten) of Mount Gilead High School in north-central Ohio had finished the 2005 state high school golf championship with a seven-stroke lead when he noticed a mistake on his card. 
A playing partner had written down a 5 for the 10th hole instead of 6. Van Houten pointed out the mistake to officials and was disqualified because he’d already signed the card. 
Five years later, Van Houten’s act has won him a spot on Sports Illustrated’s sportsmanship of the decade list. 
Van Houten is now a sophomore on the golf team at George Mason University near Washington. 
said that was a deliberate move to force lenders to renegotiate terms of the deals. 
Hicks put the team up for sale to help pay off or reduce that debt. He has said he plans to keep his NHL team. 
Greenberg has asked Hicks to continue his association with the Rangers as chair­man emeritus. 
“Nolan and I greatly appre­ciate Tom Hicks’ willingness to work beyond the deadline to complete the deal and his support for passing the torch from the Hicks family to our group,” Greenberg said. “His actions speak eloquently to his commitment to serve the best interests of Rangers fans and the community.” 
In a separate transaction, Ballpark Real Estate, L.P., an independent investment vehi­cle controlled by Hicks, will sell or transfer to the Greenberg-Ryan group approximately 153 of 195 acres around Rangers Ballpark and Cowboys Stadium that is owned or controlled by Hicks. In return, Hicks will receive cash, notes and an ownership position in the team. 
Hicks announced Dec. 15 that he was entering into exclusive negotiations with Greenberg, choosing that proposal over bids submitted by former sports agent Dennis Gilbert and Houston businessman Jim Crane, who at the end of the 2008 season attempted to buy the Houston Astros from Drayton McLane. 

Watson, Prugh tied after four rounds 
LA QUINTA, Calif. — Bubba Watson double-bogeyed the final hole in the fourth round at the Bob Hope Classic, dropping him back into a tie with PGA Tour rookie Alex Prugh at 23-under 265 heading into the finale in the five-round event. 
Watson finished with 3-under 69 on Sunday to match Prugh (70) at 23-under 265. Bill Haas and Tim Clark were a stroke back after 66s, Joe Ogilvie (68) followed at 21 under, and Mike Weir (67) was in a group at 20 under. 
Watson was in position to take a solid lead into his chase for his first PGA Tour victory Monday in the event that was pushed back a day after rain washed out play Thursday. Instead, Watson dropped back with his disappointing finish on the Nicklaus Private course, allowing Prugh to sneak back atop the board. 


Raiders say Cable ’s return not official 
ALAMEDA, Calif. — The Oakland Raiders denied a report by ESPN on Saturday that they have made a decision to bring Tom Cable back as coach next season, saying the eval­uation process is still ongoing. 
“We’ve never made any statement that the head coach would not be back, that has been media specula­tion from the beginning,” senior executive John Herrera said in a statement to The Associated Press on Saturday night. “We’ve consis­tently stated that we’re going through an evaluation process to determine the direction that the organization needs to go. The process is ongoing and has not reached a conclusion.” 
ESPN reported earlier Saturday that Davis had decided to retain Cable for the final year of his con­tract in 2010, citing a source close to the situation. 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, January 25, 2010 
NFL 





Saints to make first Super Bowl appearance 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS — They sure ain’t the Aints anymore. 
The New Orleans Saints are heading to their first Super Bowl after battering Brett Favre and beating the Minnesota Vikings 31-28 in overtime Sunday on unheralded Garrett Hartley’s 40­yard field goal. 
Favre threw away Minnesota’s best chance to win, tossing an interception deep in New Orleans territory in the closing seconds of regulation. Then the Saints won the coin toss and soon it was over. 
The team that had no home five years ago after Hurricane Katrina ravaged its city and the Superdome overcame a slew of mistakes in the biggest game the Big Easy has ever seen. 
“This is for everybody in this city,” said coach Sean Payton, the architect of the Saints’ turn­around. “This stadium used to have holes in it and used to be wet. It’s not wet anymore. This is for the city of New Orleans.” 
Forget the paper bag masks and that long history of losing that started in 1967. Moments after Hartley’s kick, they were toasting their hometown win­ners on Bourbon Street. 
And in the Superdome, once a squalid refuge after Katrina, they boogied in the aisles as con­fetti covered the field. 
“It’s a moment I’ve been wait­ing for for a long time and obvi­ously we’re not done yet,” said Drew Brees, Payton’s hand­picked quarterback for the Saints’ renaissance. 
The Saints (15-3) will meet Peyton Manning and the Indianapolis Colts (16-2) in the Super Bowl in two weeks in Miami. The Colts opened as four-point favorites. 
It’s the first time the top seeds in each conference made the big game since the 1993 season. 
“Brett prepared us, but now we’ve got another challenge in Peyton,” safety Darren Sharper said. 
There were nine fumbles and two interceptions, and the biggest mistake belonged to Favre. Flushed from the pocket in the final minute, he seemed to have room to run to set up a field goal. But hampered by a left leg injured in the third quar­ter, he threw cross-field and was intercepted by Tracy Porter at the 22. 
That finished off Minnesota’s chance for its first Super Bowl trip in 33 years — and opportu­nity to win it for the first time after four defeats. The Vikings have lost five straight NFC title games. 
“I’ve felt better,” said Favre, who looked every bit his 40 years. “It was a physical game. A lot of hits. You win that and you sure feel a lot better.” 
New Orleans won the coin toss, Brees guided it to the Minnesota 22 after converting a fourth-and-1 on Pierre Thomas’ leap over the line, and Hartley — suspended at the start of the season for using a banned stim­ulant — split the uprights 4:45 into OT. 
“Just helping my team get to Miami,” Hartley said. “Just doing my part.” 
“It was as loud as I have ever heard it in the dome,” Brees added. “It feels so good to know we have given our fans an NFC championship. We have another championship to go after in two weeks.” 
It was anything but easy for the Saints, in only their second conference championship game; they lost at Chicago three years ago. 
They had to withstand yet one more comeback by Favre, who returned to the NFL with the Vikings (13-5) after another brief retirement. He was alternately spectacular and pedestrian Sunday, finally betrayed by his gambling style and, perhaps, an aging body. 
Porter’s pick sent it into over­time, the third time an NFC title game has needed extra time and the second in three seasons. Two years ago, Favre’s interception in OT set up a field goal that sent the Giants past the Packers and into the Super Bowl. 
The Saints can only hope they have the same happy ending as New York did back then. 
“Yeah,” said Reggie Bush, who scored a touchdown and also muffed a punt that set up a Vikings score. “One more step.” 
The seesaw game saw All-Pro Adrian Peterson score three touchdowns for Minnesota and Saints running back Pierre Thomas get two. The Vikings handily won the possession and yardage battles — Peterson rushed for 122 yards and Minnesota gained 475 overall. But the Vikings were undone by five turnovers, including three fumbles. 
“We really gave those guys the game,” said Peterson, who peeked at the rousing celebra­tions on the Superdome floor. “Too many turnovers. It’s eating me up inside.” 
The seemingly indestructible Favre was hurt on one of those turnovers, on a combination hit by Bobby McCray and Remi Ayodele while throwing his first interception. And, despite being the closest Viking to the ball, he was helpless in the scramble to recover Percy Harvin’s fumble that seemingly turned the game in New Orleans’ favor early in the fourth period. 
The Saints took over at the 7 and, on third down, Bush caught Brees’ rollout pass by the right pylon. He was ruled out at the 1, but Payton sprinted almost to the goal line to throw the red flag. 
The challenge was upheld, and the dome rocked like never before — until Hartley’s winning field goal. 

But Favre has been in enough hostile environs to be able to shrug at such challenges. He hit tight end Visanthe Shiancoe for 16 yards, Peterson ripped off a 20-yard run, and a pass inter­ference against Porter set up Peterson’s tying 2-yard rush with 4:58 to go. 
“I would have loved to repre­sent the NFC,” said Favre, who grew up in Mississippi a Saints fan. “But, as I told Sean throughout the year when we talked, if it’s not us, I hope it’s you guys.” 
NFL 


Manning, Colts win AFC Championship against Jets 
chise history. Better yet, they’re quarter and gave up a chance at Bears. have to give credit to the Colts.


Associated Press 
heading back to their lucky city — a perfect season to focus on a Players savored every precious Obviously they’re the cream of the 

INDIANAPOLIS — This is per-Miami, where they’ve played all Super Bowl run. Fans booed moment. Receiver Pierre Garcon, crop right now.” fect for the Indianapolis Colts: four of those games and won throughout the fourth quarter who had 11 catches for 153 Jim Caldwell became only the They have Peyton Manning and there twice. and when the Colts left the field, yards, both career-highs, and the fifth rookie coach to reach the they’re back in the Super Bowl. “I thought we just kept our and some spent the past month go-ahead score raised a Haitian Super Bowl. Only two others — 
The four-time MVP threw three mouths shut and went to work complaining publicly. flag to honor his family and San Francisco’s George Seifert touchdown passes and the Colts this week,” Manning said. That’s over now. friends who still live there. Garcon and Don McCafferty, of the rallied from an 11-point, first-half The big-talking Jets, and their Manning stayed on the field for and others remained on the field Baltimore Colts — have won it. deficit to beat the New York Jets equally big-talking coach, Rex every Colts play and instead of long after the official celebration, But Caldwell does have 30-17 Sunday in the AFC champi-Ryan, were all the incentive Indy blowing a lead, the Colts rallied mingling family, friends and fans Manning, who drove the Colts onship game. needed Sunday. behind their leader. as the Colts redeemed themselves right through New York’s No. 1 
The Colts (16-2) are now head-A month ago, when the New This time, fans counted down for this season’s first loss. ranked defense with his uncanny ed back to the NFL title game for Yorkers last came to town, the final seconds while streamers “We’ve been here before, we precision. He kept dropping pass-the second time in four years and Indianapolis coach Jim Caldwell and confetti hung in the air, flash had seven comeback wins this es right over the fingertips of their fourth Super Bowl in fran-pulled his starters in the third bulbs popped incessantly and year. I think the guys were a little defenders, and the frustrated Jets 
when the official announcement rattled at first, I think we took couldn’t stop him. was made, roars cascaded from their best shot, but we came “You can have great man cover-the rafters. back,” linebacker Gary Brackett age, but that ball is right where it 
“We talked about being patient said. “I think we did a great job of needs to be,” safety Jim Leonhard against these guys,” Manning being the hunters and imposing said. said. “We knew it would be a our will today.” Garcon was one beneficiary. four-quarter game.” Manning finished 26 of 39 for The other was rookie Austin 
The Colts will face New Orleans, 377 yards. He became the first Collie, who had a career-best which made its first Super Bowl player in league history with seven catches for 123 yards, his after a 31-28 overtime win over seven 300-yard postseason first 100-yard day as a pro. And Minnesota, in two weeks. games. That broke a tie with Kurt the Jets allowed three TD passes Manning will play in the same Warner and Joe Montana. for the first time all season. venue where he beat Chicago in The Jets’ magical run ended After falling behind late in the the rain and won the Super Bowl with their first road loss in six first half, Manning responded. He MVP award three years ago. games. took the Colts 80 yards in four Manning will be going against New York (11-8) built a 17-6 plays, hooking up three straight Saints quarterback Drew Brees, a lead and took advantage of trick times with Collie, including the family friend. plays. But the Jets lost running 16-yard TD pass that made it 17­
Just as special was having the back Shonn Greene with a rib 13 with 1:13 to go in the half. Colts career rushing leader, injury in the second half, and Manning was just getting start-Edgerrin James, present the team rookie quarterback Mark Sanchez ed. with the Lamar Hunt Trophy, was shut out over the final two The next time he got the ball, which goes to the AFC champs. quarters. he took the Colts 57 yards in eight He never made it to the Super “Today wasn’t our day. There’s plays, connecting with Garcon in Bowl with the Colts, though team no question,” said Ryan, who the back corner of the end zone to owner Jim Irsay gave James a declared his Jets the Super Bowl make it 20-17 with 8:03 left in the ring when the Colts beat the favorites before the playoffs. “You third quarter. 


Monday, January 25, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
AUSTRALIAN OPEN 



Roddick defeats Gonzales 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia — Andy Roddick outlasted Fernando Gonzalez of Chile to survive a Sunday of upsets at the Australian Open that resulted in fourth-round exits for U.S. Open champion Juan Martin del Potro and two of the top three women. 
The seventh-seeded Roddick ral­lied to beat Gonzalez 6-3, 3-6, 4-6, 7-5, 6-2 and advance to the quar­terfinals at the season’s first major for the sixth time in eight years. He’ll next meet No. 14 Marin Cilic, who ousted del Potro in five sets and 4-hours, 38-minutes earlier in the evening. 
“I got a little lucky tonight, but sometimes it’s better to be lucky than good,” said Roddick, who is hoping to end a Grand Slam title drought that dates back to the 2003 U.S. Open. 
Two of Russia’s top hopes were ousted, but replaced by other Russians in the women’s draw. 
Second-ranked Dinara Safina retired due to a back problem while she was down 4-5, serving at 30-40 in the first set against Maria Kirilenko, who had ousted 2008 champion and fellow Russian Maria Sharapova in the first round. 
No. 3 Svetlana Kuznetsova lost 6-3, 3-6, 6-1 to Nadia Petrova, who went into the match after a stun­ning, 6-0, 6-1 third-round victory over U.S. Open champion Kim Clijsters. 
While the seeded players dropped, former No. 1 Justine Henin continued her run in her first Grand Slam tournament in two years with a 7-6 (3), 1-6, 6-3 win over fellow Belgian Yanina Wickmayer, keeping her on track for a quarterfinal meeting with Petrova. 
Del Potro had an upset win over top-ranked Roger Federer in the 
U.S. Open final last September, ending the Swiss star’s streak of five straight titles in New York. 
The 21-year-old Argentine was the first man since Novak Djokovic won the 2008 Australian Open to interrupt the Federer-Rafael Nadal domination of men’s Grand Slam titles, and started the season’s first major seeded fourth. 
The other leading men are still here. 
Defending champion Nadal and Andy Murray held off two of the tallest men and biggest servers in tennis earlier on Rod Laver Arena to set up a quarterfinal match up. 
Nadal, who beat Federer in the 2009 final, had a 6-4, 4-6, 6-4, 6-4 win over 6-foot-10 Ivo Karlovic of Croatia, the tallest man on the tour. 
No. 5 Murray overcame 6-foot-9 American John Isner 7-6 (4), 6-3, 6-2 to reach the final eight in Australia for the first time. The 22­year-old Scot hasn’t dropped a set in four matches. 
No. 1 Federer and No. 3 Djokovic play their fourth-round matches Monday. 
Former No. 1 Roddick looked out of it with the Chilean on a roll, leading by two sets to one and only a point from forcing a tiebreaker that would have been a lottery between the two big servers. 
But the American won five straight points to level the sets at 2-all and broke early in the fifth to dictate the ending. 
“When Fernando gets hot, you know that a lot of the match is out of your control,” Roddick said. “I think the thing that helped me was being able to serve through.” 
Gonzalez saved four set points in the 10th game of the fourth set. After Gonzalez led 40-0 on serve, Roddick then won four straight points to get another set point. 
He clinched it with a forehand down the line, which a line umpire initially ruled out. 
Roddick asked for a video replay, which showed the ball hit the line. The set was awarded to the American, amid protests from Gonzalez that he could have had a play on the ball but stopped when he heard the out call. 
Gonzalez then kicked two drink bottles near the player’s chair. The booming forehands that troubled Roddick earlier then started to wilt and, after saving two match points, the Chilean double-faulted to end the match. 
The 2007 Australian Open final­ist refused to blame one disputed call for turning the match, saying he’d have to watch replays before commenting further. 
“But it wasn’t the key of the match,” he said. “The key of the match was before I have like a breakpoint, love-30, miss two balls. I think that was most impor­tant than that point. 


NFL 


Three players up for NFL’s Man of the Year 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Redskins linebacker London Fletcher, Browns wide receiver Mike Furrey and Chiefs guard Brian Waters are finalists for the NFL’s Man of the Year Award. 
The award, named for the late Hall of Fame run­ning back Walter Payton, which goes annually to the player who combines on-field excellence with off­the-field community serv­ice. 
This season Fletcher started a curriculum, men­toring program for 25 Washington, D.C., middle school students. The stu­dents visited Capitol Hill, talked with congressmen, explored museums, dis ­tributed food to local resi­dents and participated in a forum about peer pres ­sure, health and educa ­tion. 
“I’m extremely humbled by being one of the three finalists,” Fletcher said. “Each team submits all their individual ‘Men of the Year’ candidates, so out of 32 players I’m one of three who’s been selected to be the Walter Payton Man of the Year, so truly I’m hum­bled and honored.” 
Furrey created a founda­tion and spends time sup­porting charitable causes. The foundation has creat­ed relationships with local kids in the community as well as with more than a dozen charitable organiza­tions. Furrey provides inspiration for children in hospitals, serves as a men­tor for kids in children’s homes, tackles hunger and nutrition issues, supports neighborhood development and organizes holiday ini­tiatives. 
Waters’ foundation has awarded 82 college schol­arships to low-income stu­dents. Children have bene­fited from his back -to ­school program that pro­vides backpacks with school supplies, as well as haircuts, uniforms, shoes, immunizations and dental care. 
Recent winners include Kurt Warner of the Cardinals in 2008, Jason Taylor of the Dolphins in 2007, and Drew Brees of the Saints and LaDainian Tomlinson of the Chargers, co -winners in 2006. 
The winner will be announced live on CBS before the Super Bowl on Feb. 7. 
NBA 


Turkoglu’s free throws lead Raptors to victory 
Associated Press 
TORONTO — Hedo Turkoglu made two free throws with 1.2 seconds left as the Toronto Raptors beat the Los Angeles Lakers 106­105 on Sunday night 
Andrea Bargnani scored 22 points, Chris Bosh and Jarrett Jack each had 18 and Marco Belinelli added 15 for the Raptors, who are 6-0 at home this season against Western Conference opponents. 
Kobe Bryant missed a last-second jump shot and fell one assist shy of his first triple-double of the season, scoring 27 points and grab­bing 16 rebounds. Bryant, who shot 11 for 24, has 16 career triple-doubles. 
Bryant took an inbound pass from Luke Walton but his fadeaway jumper rimmed out as the Lakers lost for the second time in three games. 
Pau Gasol scored 22 points, Andrew Bynum had 21 and Jordan Farmar 17 for the Lakers. 
Bosh also had 13 rebounds for Toronto, which has won four of six. 
The Lakers didn’t trail through the first three quar­ters but gave up the lead in the fourth on a Bargnani 3­pointer with 7:33 left, put­ting Toronto up 93 -90. Farmar answered with a 3 of his own, but a Belinelli 3 from the corner at 6:26 restored Toronto’s lead, making it 98-95. 
The Raptors weren’t in front for long, with baskets from Gasol and Bryant put­ting the Lakers back on top, 99-98, with 4:57 left. Bargnani made two free throws to give the Raptors a 100-99 edge with 4:34 left, but Bynum and Farmar countered for Los Angeles, making it 103-100 with 2:24 to go. 
Toronto wasn’t done, with Bargnani making the free throw after he was fouled on a reverse layup to make it 105-104 with 1:16 remain­ing. Bryant and Bargnani both missed jumpers before Belinelli knocked a loose ball out of play with 15 seconds remaining and 3 seconds on the shot clock. Bryant’s quick jumper bounced off the rim and Bosh grabbed the rebound, giving Toronto 
one final chance with 11 seconds to play. 
The Raptors gave the ball to Turkoglu, who was fouled by Gasol with 1.2 seconds left. Turkoglu, who went 6 for 6 from the line, made both free throws, setting up the dramatic finish. 
Bargnani, who returned to Toronto’s starting lineup after sitting out Friday’s win over Milwaukee with a sore lower back, brought the crowd to its feet with a reverse dunk in the first. 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, January 25, 2010 
NBA 


Mavs beat Knicks in record win 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — The Dallas Mavericks rolled to the biggest win in franchise histo­ry, ignoring the absence of two starters to crush the New York Knicks 128 -78 on Sunday. 
Drew Gooden stepped into the lineup with 15 points and 18 rebounds, Dirk Nowitzki and Jason Terry each scored 20 points, and the Mavericks put on a shooting clinic in beating the Knicks for the eighth straight time. Dallas shot 58 percent from the field, was 12 of 22 from beyond the arc and 16 of 17 from the foul line. 
The Mavericks led by as much as 53 and outscored the Knicks 70-31 over the middle two quarters on the way to bettering their 149-104 victo­ry over Golden State on Jan. 15, 1985. 
Jose Barea replaced point guard Jason Kidd in the line­up and scored 11 points, and rookie Rodrique Beaubois backed him up with 13. 
The Knicks owned the pre­vious largest lead in the NBA this season when they led Indiana by 48 points three weeks ago, but they offered no resistance to the Mavs on Sunday in the second-worst loss in franchise history. 
Already leading by 16 at halftime, the Mavs made 15 of 19 shots (79 percent) in the third quarter. Nowitzki was only 1 of 6 for seven points at the half, then scored 13 in the third on 5-of -6 shooting before the starters took a seat for good. 
Kidd left the team following Friday’s 92 -81 loss in Philadelphia to return to Dallas, with owner Mark Cuban saying it was for a family reason. Erick Dampier was inactive with a left knee injury but was easily replaced by Gooden, who badly out­played Knicks All-Star hope­ful David Lee in the middle. 
Lee finished with 11 points 
on 5-of -16 shooting and grabbed 14 rebounds as the Knicks lost for the sixth time in eight games. 
Dallas led 27-25 after one, with the Knicks staying close behind 12 points from Jared Jeffries, the best quarter of his career. It was a six-point game midway through the second before Beaubois made two 3-pointers and Nowitzki knocked down a jumper for his only field goal of the half to make it 50-36 with 3:15 left. 
Dallas made eight of its first 11 attempts — the Knicks started 1 of 11— from behind the arc, including Terry’s that increased the lead to 17 with 
1:20 remaining in the half. The Mavs led 59-43 at the break. 
Barea drove into the lane unimpeded for layups at least twice in the third quarter as the Knicks appeared to sim­ply stop trying. It was an embarrassing effort lowlight-ed when Jeffries botched a layup on the break and the ball was batted off his head out of bounds on the rebound. 
NBA 


Nuggets surprise Hornets in overtime 

Kaman and Camby combine for 32 points to help Clippers break eight-game road losing streak 
Associated Press 
DENVER — Carmelo Anthony scored four of his 30 points in over­time and added 11 rebounds and the Denver Nuggets beat the New Orleans Hornets 116-110 on Saturday night for their season-high sixth straight victory. 
Kenyon Martin added 20 points and 14 rebounds, and Chauncey Billups had 20 points and nine assists, and Arron Afflalo had 19 points, hitting two 3-pointers in overtime. 
Chris Paul had 26 points, seven in overtime, and 10 assists for the Hornets. Darius Songaila added a season-high 20 starting in place of the injured David West. 
Afflalo’s second 3-pointer came right after Paul pulled the Hornets to 108-106 with his only 3-pointer of the night. 
Anthony rolled his ankle after landing on Devin Brown’s foot with 1:04 left, but stayed in the game and hit two free throws to give Denver a 113-106 lead. 
The Nuggets led 101-99 with 24 seconds left in regulation, but Paul hit a shot to tie it with 18 seconds left. 
Anthony missed two shots in the final seconds that would have won it in regulation. 
Stojakovic hit three 3-pointers in the third quarter as New Orleans surged ahead, but the Nuggets came storming back. Anthony hit a turnaround and after New Orleans miss, Martin’s putback dunk made it 75-72 with 2:59 left in the frame. 
Denver led 79-78 heading into the fourth. 
West, the Hornets’ second-leading scorer, missed the game after spraining an ankle against Minnesota on Friday night. Songaila started in West’s place and scored eight points in the first quarter to help New Orleans take a 33-32 lead. 
Clippers 92, Wizards 78 
Chris Kaman scored 20 points and Marcus Camby had 12 points and 19 rebounds to lead the Los Angeles Clippers to a 92-78 win over the Washington Wizards on Sunday. 
Los Angeles had six players in double figures and snapped an eight-game road losing streak, and a three-game skid in Washington, as the Clippers won for the third time in eight games. 
Baron Davis had 11 points and 11 assists and Rasual Butler scored 14 for Los Angeles. The only real problems for the Clippers came on the perimeter; they shot 3 of 16 from 3-point range. Los Angeles (20-23) has now eclipsed its win total from last season. 
Antawn Jamison scored 20 points and 10 rebounds for Washington, which has lost three straight. Brandon Haywood added 18 points and 12 rebounds. 
Jamison was held to a total of 15 points in the past two games on a combined 6-of-24 shooting, the only time this season he has failed to reach double figures in back-to-back games. He avoided his first such three-game streak since Feb. 7-10, 2004. 
The Clippers outscored Wasington 21-10 in the fourth quarter. The Wizards shot 3 of 16 from the field. 
Los Angeles took the lead in the opening minutes and held onto it the rest of the game, although momentum swung back and forth as the teams traded long runs starting just before halftime. 
The Wizards closed the first half on a 8-0 run and trailed 48­46 at the break. The Clippers used a 12-0 run early in the third quarter to take a 13-point lead with 7 minutes left in the quarter. 


Monday, January 25, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
NFL 


Indy favored as bets open for Super Bowl 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS — Peyton Manning and the Indianapolis Colts opened as a four-point favorite to beat New Orleans in the Super Bowl. 
Oddsmaker Sean Van Patten of Las Vegas Sports Consultants said the firm gave that line after watching New Orleans struggle to beat the Minnesota Vikings in the NFC championship game Sunday night. Las Vegas Sports Consultants provides betting lines for roughly 90 percent of sports books in Nevada. 
“The big factor here is that Indy has been there,” Van Patten said. “The experience factor is such a huge thing when it comes to the Super Bowl.” 
Manning and the Colts won the Super Bowl in 2007 over the Chicago Bears. 
Patten said oddsmakers like that Indianapolis has succeed­ed against two top NFL defenses in consecutive games. The top-seeded Colts beat the New York Jets 30-17 Sunday in the AFC champi­onship. 

Indianapolis was a 4 1/2 ­point favorite in the Glantz-Culver line, with the over-under at 55 1/2 points. 
Sports books gave Indianapolis 8-1 odds to win the Super Bowl at the start of the season, compared with 18­1 for New Orleans. 
“I think the Saints are very fortunate to be in there,” said Jay Kornegay, executive direc­tor of the race and sports book at the Las Vegas Hilton. “To get five turnovers at home and having to go to overtime to win it, I don’t think they were playing that well.” 
New Orleans outlasted Minnesota 31-28 in overtime, even though the Vikings gained 218 more yards and had nearly twice as many first downs as the Saints. 
Jay Rood, race and sports book director for casino oper­ator MGM Mirage, said bettors began favoring Indianapolis soon after New Orleans won and the odds were posted. 
Rood said that was because the Colts have been consistent all year, while Saints bettors who lost Sunday because New Orleans didn’t cover the spread didn’t want to take the team again so soon. 
NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 



No. 3 Lady Vols defeat LSU 

No. 25 Cavaliers outlast No. 22 Yellow Jackets in Virginia 
Associated Press 
BATON ROUGE, La. — No. 3 Tennessee’s offense strug­gled in its 55 -43 victory over No. 18 LSU on Sunday night, but coach Pat Summitt was still pleased — with a tough zone defense. 
“I thought our coverage out of the zone was really good,” Summitt said. “We 
e x t e n d e d  i t .  We  w e r e  
aggressive,  we  got after it.  
O b v i o u s l y  w e  w a n t e d  t o  

make sure we were not just giving them good open looks or a lot of chances to get in the paint.” 
The Lady Volunteers, who scored about 20 points below their average, held LSU to 26 percent shooting from the field. 
Alyssia Brewer made the most of her third Southeastern Conference start, scoring 14 points and grabbing seven rebounds for Tennessee. Kelly Cain added 11 points and Angie Bjorklund had 10 for the Lady Vols (17-2, 5-1). 
Allison Hightower led LSU (14-4, 3-3) with 17 points and LaSondra Barrett had 
12. Jasmine Nelson had 10 rebounds for the Tigers. 
LSU scored only 5 points in the first three minutes of the game. 
“I think during those plays we had a lot of break ­downs, ” said Hightower. “We fouled the shooter and put them on the line. They got a few easy looks in the post. I guess we had a lot of breakdowns at key moments in the game — blocking out and rebound­ing.” 
Tennessee, playing its sec­ond straight road game, led by as much as seven in the first half and took a 24-22 lead at the break. 
LSU took its only lead of the game with 12:18 remaining in the second half, going up 35-32 before the Vols answered with an 
1 8 -2  r u n  t o  p u t t h e  L a d y  
Tigers away.  
T h e  m u c h  b i g g e r  L a d y  

Vols gave LSU problems under the basket, holding the Tigers to only 12 points in the paint. Tennessee out-rebounded LSU 39-32. 
LSU retired former player Seimone Augustus’ jersey before the game. Augustus, a two-time national player of the year, led the Tigers to their first Final Four as a sophomore and ranks in LSU’s top 10 in every major category. Augustus is the first female athlete at LSU to have her jersey retired. It now hangs beside those of Pete Maravich, Shaquille O’Neal, and Bob Petit. 
Virginia 57, Georgia Tech 55 
Monica Wright scored 15 of her game-high 23 points in the second half to lift No. 25 Virginia to a 57-55 win over No. 22 Georgia Tech on Sunday. 
Lexie Gerson added 10 points for the Cavaliers (14­5, 3-2 ACC), who survived a wild final 10 seconds. Brigitte Ardossi missed a potential tying 3-pointer, and after a missed foul shot by Virginia, Tech guard Sharena Taylor was fouled with 1.2 seconds. 
Taylor made the first free throw but had to miss the second intentionally, and the Yellow Jackets (16-5, 2­
3) could not gather in the loose ball. 
Ardossi paced Georgia Tech with 18 points and Deja Foster added 11. Sasha Goodlett and Alex Montogomery finished with 10 points each. 
Virginia trailed 20-7 early in the game, then used a 14-0 run to take the lead. The Cavaliers held on thanks to their foul shooting (16 of 17) and their bench play, where they outscored Georgia Tech 21-2. 


page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 25, 2010 
ND TRACK & FIELD 


Women finish first, men second at Invite 
By KAITLYN MURPHY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish women came out on top Saturday at the first scored meet of the season, the Notre Dame Invitational. Notre Dame’s women won the meet with a score of 
126.5 points, followed by Louisville with 108 and Michigan State in third with 
102.5 points. 
The men’s squad finished second with 113.5 points behind Michigan State, who scored 126. Louisville fol­lowed the Irish in third place with 100.5 points. 
A major highlight of the meet for the women was sen­ior Joanna Schultz’s NCAA provisional qualifying mark in the 400-meter race with a time of 53:82. This was the second provisional NCAA mark set by Notre Dame this season. 
Other highlights included the continuing dominance of Irish vaulters. Sophomore Kevin Schipper and his senior brother Matt finished first and second, respectively. The brothers put forth Big East qualifying marks at last week’s meet and continue to dominate the competition. 

The Irish took top honors in a number of other events. Junior Denes Veres finished first in the shot put with a throw of 17 meters and sen­ior Samantha Williams out-sprinted the competition in the 500-meter race with a time of 1:14:94. Freshman standout Nevada Sorenson produced a first-place finish, accompanied by a Big East qualifying time of 8.56, in the 60-meter hurdles. 
Irish coach Joe Piane had previously identified winning the Big East as an immediate goal for the team, and both the men and women’s squads outlasted their sole Big East opponent, Louisville, in this weekend’s meet. 
The Irish will travel to Bloomington, Ind., this week­end for the Indiana Invitational. 
Contact Kaitlyn Murphy at kmurph28@nd.edu 
SMC SWIMMING 





Belles end season with tie 
Immediately after this, sopho­more Barbaba Beidler edged in only nine hundredths of a second before the other swimmers to take first at 58.72 seconds in the 100-yard freestyle. 
Griffin then took first in the 200-yard backstroke, racking up her second first-place finish for the day. Watson took first in the 500-yard freestyle at 5:30.81, closely followed by Niemann, who took second, at 5:35.94. 
When Albion took first, second and third in the 200-yard breast­stroke, the Belles lost their large lead, and led by five, 109-104. They needed a first place finish in the final event of the day, the 200­yard freestyle relay, to clinch the win, but lost to Albion by 0.27 of a second. 
The Belles did, however, take second and third in the relay to end the meet at 115-115. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s lost its second conference contest in as many games Saturday, falling 62-57 at Trine. 
The Thunder (9-9, 2-4 MIAA) had never defeated the Belles (10-7, 5-4) as a member of the MIAA, which accepted Trine in 2004. 
The game was back-and­forth early and knotted at 12­12 with just under 14 minutes left in the first half when Trine hit a 3-point shot to take the lead, a lead they would main­tain at halftime by the count of 31-26. 
Coming out of halftime, the Thunder went on a 9-2 run to take what would be their biggest lead of the game at 40­
28. The Belles, however, were not about to quit easily and countered with a run of their own, tying the game at 46 with more than eight minutes to play. Sophomore guard Patsy Mahoney even gave Saint Mary’s a two-point lead shortly afterward by converting two free throws, but Trine immedi­ately regained the upper hand. 
With just over two minutes to play, the Belles again went up by a point at 56-55. Defense dominated for the next minute and a half of play, but the Thunder’s Kelly Costello was able to get open and make a 3­


By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
This weekend brought improve­ments for the Belles on many fronts. In its last home meet of the season, against Albion Friday, Saint Mary’s took first place fin­ishes in eight of the night’s 13 Senior Meredith Lierz, who returned this weekend after a knee injury, came back strong with a season-best time of 26.78 for first place in the 50-yard freestyle. The fourth straight first-place victory came from freshman Ellie Watson in the 200-yard indi­vidual medley. 
The motivation behind the first 
events and tied the Britons 115-115. 
The night began “Our team is a group 
with relays, in of girls who are which the Belles 
motivated and 
won second and 
third place. From hardworking both in there the rest of and out of the pool.” the meet only got better. 
Caila Poythress 
Coming in, the 
Belles freshman
swimmers said 
they were confi­dent in their abilities as a whole. 
“I believe our team is a group of girls who are motivated and hard­working both in and out of the pool, and are always supportive of our teammates in every aspect,” freshman Caila Poythress said. 
Senior Sara Niemann started off a long stretch of first-place finish­es for the team when she pulled ahead by more than 12 seconds in the 1,000-yard freestyle. Freshman Katie Griffin then took first in the 200-yard freestyle. 
place finishes came from the support of all the ladies com­bined. 
“We are like one big family. We support each other in our everyday lives,” Watson said. 
Freshman 
Genevieve Spittler began a series of close races when she finished just half of a second in front of her competitors in the 200-yard butterfly with a time of 2:21.94. 

SMC BASKETBALL 


Murphy scores 22 points in loss 
point shot, giving Trine a 58-56 lead with 22 seconds to go. 
Sophomore forward Kelley Murphy made one free throw and cut the lead to one point with just 11 seconds left, but the Thunder hit all of their free throws at the end to seal the win. 
Murphy led the Belles with 22 points and 10 rebounds and senior forward Anna Kammrath followed with 14 points. Junior guard Liz Wade’s six steals moved her to third all-time in school history. The Belles, however, shot only 38.2 percent from the floor com­pared to Trine’s 42.6 percent. The Thunder also spread around the scoring with three players in the double digits and a fourth with nine points. 
Despite the loss, Saint Mary’s was able to hold on to third place in the conference, but is now only one game ahead of four teams. It is three games behind second-place Calvin, whom the Belles host Wednesday night in an oppor­tunity to gain ground in the conference. 

Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


Monday, January 25, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 

Weekend 
continued from page 24 
from Havens and freshman 
B l a s  M o r o s  t o  h o l d  o n t o  
their lead.  
S u n d a y  m o r n i n g  s a w  
N o t r e  D a m e  a n d  t h e  

Cavaliers on the courts using an alternative scoring method agreed upon by both teams. The match con­sisted of 10 single matches, each worth one point, and five doubles matches, each for one double point, for a total of 11 points. 
The Irish jumped to a 3-1 lead in the Nos. 7-10 sin­gles, where junior David Anderson, sophomore Samuel Keeton and junior Matt Johnson won the Nos. 8-10 positions. Davis fell 7­5, 6-3 to Virginia’s Philippe Oudshoorn in the No. 7 sin­gles. 
The Cavaliers cut the Notre Dame lead to 3-2 when they took the doubles point. The duo of Davis and Watt fell 9-8 to Michael Shabaz and Sanam Singh at No. 1 doubles while Keeton and junior Daniel Stahl fell 8-4 at No. 3 and junior Sean Tan and freshman Spencer Talmadge lost 8-5 at the No. 4 position. 

Notre Dame’s main defeat came in the Nos. 1-6 sin­gles, where Stahl was the only win for Notre Dame at No. 4 with a 7-6 (7-2), 4-6, 7-6 (7 -5) defeat of Virginia’s Drew Courtney. 
Notre Dame had better luck Sunday evening as they swept the Jaguars. 
Davis and Havens took the No. 1 doubles spot 8-2 over IUPUI’s Deon Shafer and Nick Volz. The trend continued at No. 2 with Talmadge and Tan’s 8-3 win and again in No. 3 as sen­iors Patrick Callaghan and Takashi Yoshii won 8-4. 
The sweep continued without much of a chal ­lenge in the singles division for the Irish. Havens, Moros, freshman Michael Moore, Davis, Anderson and Keeton all won in two sets. 
The Irish travel to Columbus, Ohio, next week­end to compete in the Ohio State regional of the National Indoor Team qual­ifiers. Notre Dame will face Tulsa at 1 p.m. Saturday. 

Contact Meaghan Veselik at mevesel01@nd.edu 
Johnson 
continued from page 24 
after knocking down 24 of 25 the night before. The solid back-to-back performances were a first in the young goal­tender’s career. 
“[Johnson] played exception­ally,” Jackson said. “[He] gave our team a chance to win, and at least come out of the game with a point. Hopefully that is going to be the beginning of him being able to play at that high level of consistency.” 
Freshman Nick Larson netted Notre Dame’s lone goal of the night, a mere 23 seconds after Lake Superior State (14-9-5, 9­8-3-2) beat Johnson with a shot. In the shootout, Ryan, Ridderwall and Thang shot and missed for the Irish, while Laker Domenic Monardo con­verted his attempt for the shootout win and an extra point in the CCHA standings. 
With the win and the tie over the weekend, Notre Dame moved into sole possession of sixth place in the conference, only three points behind Lake Superior State in fourth. 


Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 

NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 


No. 6 Duke survives scare against Maryland 


Associated Press 
COLLEGE PARK, Md. — Playing for the third time in seven days, No. 6 Duke could have really used a breather against struggling, rebuilding Maryland. 
Instead, the weary Blue Devils were forced to expend every bit of their remaining energy to squeeze out a 58-57 victory Sunday night. 
Jasmine Thomas scored 20 points and Bridgette Mitchell made the go-ahead basket with 
1:29 left for Duke, the lone remaining unbeaten team in Atlantic Coast Conference play. 
The victory capped a week in which the Blue Devils were soundly defeated by Connecticut before defeating Virginia Tech. 
“I’m extremely proud of our team’s character,” coach Joanne McCallie said. “A lot of things were working against us throughout. I thought Jasmine showed incredible poise in terms of what she did defen­sively and, of course, offensive­ly.” 
Thomas accounted for more than a third of the Blue Devils’ points, grabbed three rebounds and had three steals. 
Duke (17-3, 5-0) frittered away an 11-point lead and trailed 54-53 before Mitchell hit a runner in the lane as the shot clock expired. 
After a missed shot by Maryland, Duke’s Joy Cheek made two free throws with 20 seconds remaining for a three-point cushion. Anjale Barrett then missed a 3-point attempt for the Terrapins, and Thomas made one of two free throws before Barrett connected on a 3 at the buzzer. 
“We did more than survive,” McCallie insisted. “I thought we really handled adversity well. A lot of teams don’t play Connecticut. We did. Then we had a great game against Virginia Tech and you’ve got to travel. I think we really blos­somed as a team in the sense of our toughness. Not everything was going our way — at all.” 
Lori Bjork scored 11 points for Maryland (14-6, 2-4), which committed 19 turnovers. The Terrapins, who had their 48­game home winning streak bro­ken by Miami on Thursday, have lost three straight overall 
— matching their longest skid since February 2004. 
It’s also the first time since February 2006 that Maryland has lost two in a row at home. 
“Obviously, there are no moral victories. But I am proud of this team,” coach Brenda Frese said. “I think it’s a great statement game for us, the fact that our teams knows they can play with anybody.” 
Maryland trailed 30-25 early in the second half before Lynetta Kizer made a layup to ignite a 9-0 run that gave the Terrapins their first lead since 2-0. 
Mitchell then scored on a put-back, and Thomas scored the Blue Devils’ next 13 points to make it 45-38. 
“I really was just taking the shots that were there,” Thomas said. “In the first half, I forced a lot of things, over-penetrated and passed up a few shots I should have taken. They were still there in the second half, and I just hit them.” 
After Thomas’ scoring spree, the lead expanded to 51-40. Bjork then hit consecutive 3­pointers to begin a 14-2 surge that put Maryland back in front. 
Following a series of missed shots and turnovers, Mitchell hit her pivotal shot. 
Although the Blue Devils bat­tled fatigue, they had more fight left at the end than the Terrapins. 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, January 25, 2010 
Depth 
continued from page 24 
were able to get the Mountaineers (18-2, 5-1 Big East) into foul trouble early, forcing West Virginia to play less aggressively as the game went on. 
“They play aggressive, we can’t play aggressive. They can bang, and we can’t because of foul trouble,” Mountaineers coach Mike 
started off shakily for the Irish, as they lost the battle on the boards 9-1 in the first five minutes. This rebounding advantage allowed the Mountaineers to take over the first half and set the tone of the game. 
“They knew right away that they could have their way with us on the boards,” McGraw said. “And that set the tone for the half, and we never fought back. We let them manhandle us in there and we took it.” 
The bright spot for the Irish in the first half was freshman guard Skylar Diggins, whose play was key to keeping the first half from getting out of hand. 
“Skylar [Diggins] had the best game from start to fin­ish,” McGraw said. “She got us off to a great start, thank­fully, because we really could-n’t score, and she came off the bench and hit a couple shots and did really well defensive­ly.” 
Diggins ended the game with 15 points, second only to Schrader’s 16. 


Frilling 
continued from page 24 
and the Hawkeyes, but Frilling’s ability to stand the pressure of competing against the best paid off. 
“[Sonja Molnar] is a really intense player and she fought really hard during the match, ” Frilling said. “But in the end, I was 

West Virginia went on a 13­0 run near the end of the first half and seemed to have the game well in hand heading into halftime with a 42-31 lead. According to McGraw, that is when her senior lead­ership stepped up. 
“I knew that the seniors would just get it done,” McGraw said. “They would step up. They knew what they had to do, they don’t need me to do that very often. I thought they took care of business pretty much on 
their own.” 

“I knew that the
Carey said. The Irish “We weren’t as seniors would just get used a 16-3 aggressive in it done.” run in the sec-the second half ond half, 10 because of foul points of which 
Muffett McGraw 
trouble.” came from The game Irish coach Schrader, to 

take the lead 
away from 

West Virginia for good and to cruise to their second straight victory. 
“In the first half, I didn’t think we got inside as much,” Schrader said. “We have to go back to what we are really good at, which is the inside-out game.” 
Schrader posted her second consecutive double-double and her third in the past four games. 
Senior guard Ashley Barlow also posted a career-high mark with seven assists. 
The game marked the Irish’s second sell-out this year, eighth all-time. McGraw attributes much of the victory to the atmosphere the crowd brought to the game. 
“We really, really got the energy,” McGraw said. “We were feeding off of them today.” 
The Irish will next tip off against Providence Wednesday in the Purcell Pavilion at 7 p.m. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 


six singles matches and all of the three doubles compe­titions. 
Victories from Frilling, Mathews, McGaffigan, Krisik, Ciobanu and junior Kristen Rafael each con­tributed to the six points the Irish received as they swept the singles competi­tion at Wisconsin. 
Despite the success that the Irish experienced this weekend, the chal ­

able to close “We need to work on lenges of the 
out the ensuing sea-
serving more. In
match.” son are moti-
Sophomore indoor meets, good vating the Shannon serves are a good women to Mathews, keep working 
weapon to have.” 
freshman on different Chrissie aspects of the McGaffigan Jay Louderback game. and seniors Irish coach “We need to 
Kali Krisik and Cosmina Ciobanu each defeated Hawkeye players to earn five of six possible points. The Irish also swept all three of the doubles match­es to top the final score off at 6-1. 
“This was the first time that the doubles teams have played together, ” Louderback said. “They were able to win each of the doubles matches this weekend.” 
Next, the Irish traveled to Madison, Wisc. to take on the Badgers, a battle where the Irish won each of the work on serv­ing more, ” Louderback said. “In 

indoor meets, good serves are a good weapon to have.” 
The team is also hoping to spend this week in prac­tice getting more matches in to ensure that they will demonstrate a competitive 
f r o n t  f o r  t h e  w e e k s  t o  
come.  
Th e  n e x t  m a t ch will b e  

against DePaul Saturday at Notre Dame’s Eck Tennis Pavilion. 

Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
Guard Will Walker led the Blue road. Demons and all players with 35 “We played Syracuse when 



DePaul 
points, shooting 15-of-30 from they were the hottest team in the 
the field. Forward 
continued from page 24 
Devin Hill also lead into halftime, leading 37-27. tallied 15 points 
Senior forward Luke and eight Harangody said a strong start rebounds for helped Notre Dame coming off DePaul. two straight losses. “We’ll take any 
“We just had to get out of the Big East victory gates, and we did that today with we can get. It’s the balance and efficiency of this good to get that team,” Harangody said. rid of that two-
The Irish maintained their lead game losing throughout the second half, and streak and get 
“We’ll take any Big East victory we can get.” 
Tyrone Nash Irish forward 
every time DePaul made a move, out of the losing column,” Nash Notre Dame responded. A late 3-said. pointer pulled the Blue Demons Notre Dame will face another within 77-71, but it was too little conference challenge Wednesday, too late as Notre Dame sealed the facing No. 4 Villanova on the win with free throws down the stretch. 
Abromaitis led the Irish in scoring with 30 points, and three of his teammates ended the game with double-doubles. Harangody, junior Ben Hansbrough and Nash each accomplished the feat with points and rebounds, and for Nash it was the first of his career. 
“My teammates really concen­trated on getting me the ball early,” Nash said. “[Harangody] and I went down there and got to work early.” 
Nash finished with 13 points and 10 rebounds. 
Ball control, a strength for the Irish all season, was key for Notre Dame in the game, as the Irish had 22 assists and just two turnovers. The Irish lead the nation in assist-to-turnover ratio. 
“If we are going to be able to compete with the best teams we really have to play together,” Hansbourgh said. “We don’t nec­essarily have the superior ath­letes like Syracuse or UConn, but we can make up for that by play­ing together.” 
Hansbrough came just three assists short of a triple-double, filling up the box score with 15 points, 10 rebounds and seven assists. 
league, and now we play Villanova and they’re the hottest team in the league,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “That’s a great opportunity for us as a team. We’ve just got to get our reps in at practice tomor­row, get well 
rested tonight and we’ll be ready.” 

Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 

Monday, January 25, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN


T.I.N.D. 






 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 





Sports 

Monday, January 25, 2010 page 24 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Irish improve standing with win over DePaul 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish led from start to fin­ish and went back above .500 in Big East play with an 87-77 win over last-place DePaul Saturday. 
Notre Dame started the game on fire offensively, jumping out to a 7-0 lead in the opening min­utes. Junior forward Tyrone Nash scored on the Irish’s first two possessions, and the Blue Demons were forced to take an early timeout. 
“We wanted to come out right away and boost the energy,” jun­ior forward Tim Abromaitis said. “We got three stops right away and really pushed the ball in transition. It helped to get those big stops right away.” 
DePaul kept the game from getting out of hand, however, overcoming Notre Dame’s quick start to narrow the lead to 20­
15. The Irish built up a 10-point 
see DEPAUL/page 22 



Big Easy 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer Junior guard Ben Hansbrough, right, dribbles Saturday during Notre Dame’s 87-77 win over DePaul. Hansbrough had 15 points, 10 rebounds and seven assists in the win. 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Big Ten no match for Irish squad 

By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
In their first two tests of the spring season, Notre Dame kicked off its dual ­meet season with a 6-1 win 
over Iowa and a 7-0 win over Wisconsin. 
“Since we had so many players out in the fall, it was good for the kids to start playing together again, ” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. 
During Saturday’s match at the University of Iowa, soph­omore Kristy Frilling, cur­rently ranked No. 30 by the Intercollegiate Tennis Association, defeated Iowa’s No. 65 Sonja Molnar in the first singles competition in only two games. Last season, the Irish lost in the top sin­gles position against Molnar 
see FRILLING/page 22 


HOCKEY 



Ridderwall records hat trick in victory over Lakers 
against a team who is 9-1 in its on transition as well. That line in the night, neither Ridderwall ing on transition, it gives us a

By DOUGLAS FARMER 
last 10 games.” has a little bit of everything, nor Thang assisted on a goal fourth man on the rush and 
Sports Writer 
The Irish (11-10-7, 7-7-6-2 and right now they seem to be Friday. Instead, all six goals allows us to generate more.” CCHA) set a season high with clicking.” were assisted on by defense-After Thang’s first period goal 

Facing its fourth top-20 team six goals in a 6-1 victory Friday Thang, one of Ridderwall’s men as seniors Kyle Lawson tied the game, the Irish scored in a row, Notre Dame earned night. Senior Ryan Thang, jun-linemates, knocked in his fifth and Brett Blatchford and junior their next five goals all in the four points in the conference ior Ben Ryan and sophomore goal in the last three games to Joe Lavin each dished out a second period. standings over the weekend Patrick Gaul each scored one tie the game at one. pair of assists. Their dramatic In contrast to Friday’s offen­with a win and a shootout loss goal in the offensive explosion, “Obviously with the injury to appearance on the state sheet sive show, The Irish displayed against No. 18 Lake Superior while junior Calle Ridderwall [sophomore] Billy Maday, it brought accolades from defensive strength Saturday State. recorded his second hat trick of opened up a spot to try and get Jackson. night to tie the Lakers 1-1. 
“Anytime you go on the road the season. Ryan going,” Jackson said. “It “Our core defensemen are as Freshman goalie Mike and win and tie it’s a good “Calle was the benefit of good has certainly started to take good as any in college hockey,” Johnson saved 45 of 46 shots, weekend,” Irish coach Jeff play down low on the cycle,” off.” he said. “If they start being Jackson said. “Especially Jackson said. “He did a nice job Despite their line’s four goals involved in the offense, activat-see JOHNSON/page 21 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 




Winning streak begins again 
By JARED JEDICK 
Sports Writer 
The No. 4 Irish began a win­ning streak of their own Sunday with their second con­secutive come-from-behind vic­tory, a 74-66 win over a No. 16 West Virginia squad that came into the day boasting a 16­game winning streak. 
The Irish recovered from a 42-31 halftime deficit to put the Mountaineers away on the back of a dominant 13-point second-half performance from senior guard Lindsay Schrader. 
“I thought our depth wore them down,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “We were able to rest.” 
The Irish (17-1, 4-1 Big East) 
see DEPTH/page 22 

MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish win two, lose one in weekend play 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish had a successful start to their 2010 season, going 2-1 this weekend. No. 30 Notre Dame defeated William & Mary 4-3 Friday, suffered a 7-4 loss Sunday morning to No. 2 Virginia but came back to take down IUPUI 7-0 Sunday evening. 
The Irish opened Friday’s match with a 3-0 lead, but the Tribe fought their way back to tie the match at 3­
3. Sophomore Niall Fitzgerald clinched the vic­tory with a 2-6, 6-3, 6-3 victory at No. 3 singles over the Tribe ’s Jamie Whiteford. 
Notre Dame earned the doubles point in the match with victories at the No. 1 and No. 2 positions. At No. 1 for the Irish, sophomore Casey Watt and junior Tyler Davis defeated Kezial Juneau and Ilja Orre 8-6 while Fitzgerald and junior Stephen Havens took down Sebastien Vidal and Adrian Vodislav 8-5 at the No. 2 spot. 
Juneau defeated Watt in the No.1 singles competi­tion, 6-4, 7-5, but the Irish came back with wins in the No. 2 and No. 5 positions 
see WEEKEND/page 21 




