the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Authorities explain law to students 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Questions about the legal process involved with underage drinking sparked student interest during the “State of Arrest” open panel discussion Monday evening. 
Representatives from the Office of Residence Life and Housing (ORLH), the Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP), the South Bend Police Department (SBPD), the Indiana State Excise Police, the St. Joseph County prosecutor’s office and a defense attorney from the public defendant’s office participated in the panel discus­sion. 
“Today’s panel discussion put a face on the people involved in issues that matter to students,” student body president Catherine Soler said. 
Morrissey Hall sponsored the discussion to give students back­ground information on Indiana alcohol laws and the legal effects of drinking off campus, Morrissey assistant rector Josh Bennett said. 
“Our mission is not to give stu­dents a hard time or to go out and see how many parties we can bust on a nightly basis,” SBPD Captain Jeffrey Rynearson said. “Our mission is to protect the citi­zens of South Bend.” 
The best method to avoiding confrontation with police is to minimize noise because a noise complaint is typically what draws cops to a party, Rynearson said. 
see PANEL/page 5 


‘UNFINISHED BUSINESS’ 

Photo courtesy of Terrence Rogers 

Terrence Rogers, right, hits Mike Orlando, left, in the 1977 Bengal Bouts competition. Rogers went on to lose in the fnals that year, but is back this school year in search of the 2011 championship. 


Boxer returns to ND at age 55 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 

Editor’s note: This is the first installment of a three-part series about Terrence Rogers, a 1979 Notre Dame graduate who has returned as a graduate student with the goal of winning Bengal Bouts. 
After 31 years and 11 rejec­tion letters, Terrence Rogers, Notre Dame class of 1979, is finally a Notre Dame student again and has one goal — to win Bengal Bouts. 
Former Irish football coach Knute Rockne founded the amateur boxing tournament known as Bengal Bouts in 1920. The tournament, which follows the motto “Strong bodies fight that weak bodies may be nourished,” is a chance for male Notre Dame students to train and spar while raising money for the Holy Cross missions in Bangladesh. 
At age 55, Rogers will face competitors more than half his age in this quest to win. But he is not sparring for his own sake. Following the Bengal Bouts tradition, Rogers is fighting for a differ­ent, very specific goal. 
“I will be fighting on behalf of the missions,” Rogers said. “The most money that the Bengal Bouts has ever raised is $100,000. I want to help shatter the record and at least double that.” 
Rogers has been a Bengal Bouts fan since his childhood in the 1960s. His oldest broth­er, then a student at Notre Dame, came home on break with stories of the student boxers who sparred not for their own glory but to help people in Bangladesh. 
“All I ever wanted to do ever since I was ten years old was come to Notre Dame and win the Bengal Bouts,” Rogers said. 
After transferring to Notre Dame from West Point in the 1970s, Rogers boxed in the Bengal Bouts three times as an undergraduate. He won the semi-finals in 1977, beat­ing Mike Orlando by unani­mous decision. Rogers won second place as a junior and became determined to win his 
see ROGERS/page 3 



NDVotes anticipates elections 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 

NDVotes 2010, a forum designed to promote voter participation and engagement in the upcoming midterm elections, kicks off this evening with the first “Pizza, Pop and Politics” event. 
Sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns (CSC), along with College Democrats, College Republicans and College Libertarians, NDVotes 2010 is intended to increase political dialogue among stu­dents through a series of five discussions. 
“The ultimate objective of NDVotes is to encourage political involvement, regard­less of party affiliation,” said Eileen Flanagan, College Democrats co -president. “We’re thrilled to be involved in an event that encourages bipartisanship.” 
Tuesday’s discussion will provide an initial overview of what is at stake in the 2010 midterm elections, Flanagan said. 
Several professors will be on hand to discuss issues that are especially relevant for voters and politicians this year, including Matthew Storin, professor of American studies; David Nickerson, professor of political science; and Jack Colwell, a writer 
see VOTE/page 4 


Gingrich screens film on Pope John Paul II 
By ELLIE HALL 
News Writer 
Former U.S. Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich screened his Catholic docu­mentary “Nine Days That Changed the World” Monday night in Washington Hall and urged the audience to carry the film ’s lessons into an increasingly secular nation. 
“Nine Days That Changed the World,” produced and narrated by the former speaker and his wife, Callista, chronicles Pope John Paul II’s historic first visit to Poland in June 1979 and the subsequent begin­nings of the solidarity move­ment that overthrew the Polish Communists in 1990. 

“You cannot understand the history of the collapse of the Soviet Union and the end 
of the Cold War without understanding the power of religion and in particular the influence of Pope John Paul II, ” Newt said as he introduced the film. 
He said the film and the pope’s messages are still rel­evant today. 
“The message of this film is not just for those places that might have overt dicta­torships such as Cuba or China but are also for those places in the West that have aggressively and abundantly used courts and bureaucra­cies to weaken the religious impulse and the right of individuals to approach God on their own terms,” Newt said. 
“Conflict between a secu­lar government determined to impose its power and a free people seeking the right to approach God on their own terms and seeking the right to openly profess their face is a conflict that has gone on for most of human 
see GINGRICH/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER University invests in energy conservation page 3  Glee preview page 10  Interhall football kicks off page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Monday, September 20, 2010 

THE OBSERVER 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT’S THE FIRST THING YOU LOOK AT WHEN YOU OPEN THE OBSERVER? 









P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 

Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 

SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 

and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 





TODAY’S STAFF 

News Amanda Gray Sports Sam Stryker Douglas Farmer Nicole Toczauer Chris Masoud Graphics Michael Todisco Melissa Kaduck Joe Wirth 
Photo Scene 
Dan Jacobs Maija Gostin Sarah O’Connor Viewpoint 


OFFBEAT 

Greeks find skulls in luggage of U.S. tourists 
ATHENS — Greek police charged two U.S. tourists with desecrating the dead on Thursday after they found six human skulls in their hand luggage at Athens international airport, a police official said. “The skulls were found in a scanner check during a stop-over in Athens on their way back to the United States,” said a police official who requested anonymity. “The coroner confirmed they were human skulls.” The two young tourists said they had bought the skulls in a souvenir shop on the island of Mykonos and believed they were fake, 
Jarred Pickering  Emma Nalezny  Erin Gibson  Dondi Ellis  Deirdre Murdy  Mike Wilbur  
grad student  senior  junior  junior  senior  junior  
first year  off campus  Welsh Fam  Alumni  off campus  O’Neill  

“The front page, “The question “The viewpoints “I don’t read “The inside “The opinions let’s see what of the day.” so I can be up the Observer.” column.” and editorial.” the big deal is!” on the latest ND gossip.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

the official said, adding they had been released pending trial. 
Australian scientists find regional accents in bats 
SYDNEY — It’s not just people who have different accents but bats as well, according to Australian scientists. 
Researcher Brad Law of the Forest Science Center found that bats living in the forests along the east coast of the state of New South Wales had different calls. 
Law said the different calls of about 30 bat species were used to develop a system so that scientists could identify the various bats along the coast, assess their numbers, and protect them. 
Researchers took 4,000 bat calls and used a cus­tom-made software pro­gram to develop identifica­tion keys for bat calls in dif­ferent parts of New South Wales. 
Bats use their calls to nav­igate and hunt using a process called echolocation in which high frequency ultrasounds, inaudible to humans, hit objects and echo back. 
But the researchers said the development of auto­mated identification keys for bat calls was in its infancy. 
“The identification keys we have produced should undergo further testing,” said Law. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 

The International Summer Service Learning Program Information Session will be held tonight , from 7 to 8 
p.m. at the McNeill Library in Geddes Hall. Information sessions conducted by past participants will provide information on the applica­tion processes. 
The Notre Dame Center for Ethics and Culture will be showing a free screening of “Nine Days that Changed the World” tonight from 7 to 
8:45 p.m. at Washington Hall. This documentary, pre­sented by former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich and his wife, Callista, follows Pope John Paul II’s historic pilgrimage to Poland in 1979 to support the Solidarity workers ’ movement. This event is open to the public. 
The Provost’s Distinguished Women’s Lecture Series features “Scented Gloves and Perfumed Buttons: Smelling Things in Renaissance Italy” tonight from 7:30 to 9 p.m. at the Snite Museum of Art in the Annenberg Auditorium . This free event is open to the public. 
“Work Off Your Weekend” Personal Training Packages are available through RecSports. If purchased on any Monday until Nov. 29, a 10-percent discount will be given for any Personal Training package. 
Tomorrow, Republicans, Democrats and Libertarians join together to discuss the Midterm Elections 2010 in Pizza, Pop, and Politics. This free event will begin at 6 
p.m. at Geddes Hall Coffee House. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Today Tonight Tuesday Wednesday thursday friday 


CORRECTIONS 

In the Sept. 15 issue of The Observer, the “Tuesday Variety Show” comic strip by Laura McGinn was incorrectly identified. The Observer regrets this 



error. 

LOW 64 LOW 64 LOW 63 LOW 59 LOW 65 LOW 50 

Tuesday, September 21, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 





SMC bookstore signs 
ND invests in conservation 
contract with Follett 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame will invest $6.5 million in campus energy con­servation measures over the next two years, University president Fr. John Jenkins and Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves announced last week. 
The initiative, known as Energy Conservation Measures II, will focus on improving lighting, heating and cooling in 55 campus buildings, accord­ing to a press release from the Office of Sustainability. It will target buildings that have the most opportunities for saving energy, Rachel Novick, educa­tion and outreach program manager for the Office of Sustainability, said. 
“The University has been working on efficiency renova­tions in several buildings, so this is the next step in that 
major focus of the new initia­tive is improving lighting both indoors and outdoors, and this goal will be reflected in the upcoming transition to high-efficiency fluorescent lighting in buildings and the replace­ment of over 100 outdoor lampposts with LED lights. 

Additionally, LED lights will  cient as possible reflects the  
power  exit  signs  and  new  environmental consciousness  
lampposts installed on cam­pus. The initiative will also  of the University, Novick main­tains that the $6.5 million ini­tiative is a worthwhile finan- By ALICIA SMITH Associate Saint Mary’s Editor  
include the improvement of the heating and cooling sys­ cial investment. “It’s really important that the  Saint Mary’s College recently  

tems on cam­pus. Novick said many of the currently are old fash­ioned and ener­gy-consuming systems will be replaced with adjustable sys­tems that use less energy. 
“There are a lot of opportu­nities to improve effi­ciency behind 

“Each individual project and building is a relatively small slice of the initiative, but it all really adds up.” 
Rachel Novick education and outreach program manager Offce of Sustainability 
University as a Catholic institu­tion reduces its environmental footp rint,” Novick said. “But it’s also a great invest­ment because all the money put into the ini­tiative will come back in the form of energy savings in six or seven years.” 
the scenes,” Novick said. “For instance, the pumps and motors that run chemical equipment on campus will be replaced with 
higher efficien­

“It’s really important 
process,” cy models.” Novick said. that the University as Novick also “It’s part of the said the 
a Catholic institution 
conti nuous University ’s 
reduces its
process of find-utilities depart­ing opportuni-environmental ment is con-ties to save footprint.” ducting a care-energy on cam-ful analysis of pus, and the fume hoods 
Rachel Novick 
changes will be used in labora­implemented education and outreach tories on cam-
right away.” program manager pus. Novick said a “Most people 
Offce of Sustainability 
don’t know that 
the hoods use a huge amount of energy,” Novick said. “There is an opportunity to reduce the amounts of air used in the hoods, which would decrease energy consumption.” 
While the ultimate goal of making campus as energy-effi­option to rent textbooks,” Speller said. “Follett’s Rent-A-Text option, available to Saint Mary’s for the spring 2011 semester, could save students up to 50 per­cent on books.” 

Speller said Follett will also offer students Caféscribe, a digi­tal textbook program. 
“Caféscribe gives students, and faculty, the freedom to search, highlight, take notes, cross-refer­ence, sort text and connect with others using the same eTextbook,” Speller said. 
Though the store’s manage­ment will change, Speller said students, faculty and staff can still expect to see quality mer­chandise within the store. 
“They will not only bring in merchandise specific to Saint Mary’s College’s input and research, but the best practices and trends across higher educa­tion and the collegiate market­place,” Speller said. “As a result, customers can expect to see top quality merchandise available both online and in the Shaheen Bookstore in the Student Center.” 
Speller said even though new management will take over in mid-October, customers may not notice many changes until spring semester. 
“When students return to cam­pus in January, they will find that the store … is more spacious, with better traffic flow,” Speller said. 
According to Speller, Follett will pay for the renovations made to the Student Center. Renovations include expanding into the space now occupied by the C-Store. Follett plans to make these changes during fall break. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 

Novick said the initiative is projected to yield over $1 mil­lion in annual energy savings and reduce campus carbon dioxide emissions by 14,900 tons each year, and the invest­ment will eventually benefit students beyond simply con­serving energy. 
“The energy savings will lower the University’s over­head, which will allow them to provide more services to stu­dents by paying less energy 
bills,”  Novick  said.  “This  
investment ma kes  a  lot of  
sense.”  

Although the initiative includes several small-scale projects, Novick said the com­bined effects would accumu­late. 
“Each individual project and building is a relatively small slice of the initiative, but it all really adds up,” Novick said. 

Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
contracted Follett Higher Education Group to assume oper­ations of the Shaheen Bookstore, Richard Speller, vice president for finance and administration at the College said. 
Follett will officially begin administration of the bookstore Oct. 20. 
According to an e-mail sent to the student body Monday from Mike Hicks, director of campus stores, the bookstore will close Oct. 17 for training and inventory purposes and will reopen Oct. 25. 
Speller said the College elected to discontinue managing the bookstore on its own for financial reasons. 
“Bottom line, this move will save the College money,” Speller said. “The College will not have to anticipate demand, purchase and store large inventory in the form of textbooks, apparel and other merchandise.” 
Speller said the College’s finance officials reviewed three different management companies and decided on Follett. 
According to Speller, Follet has more than 1,600 independent campus stores, and is the leading supplier of bookstore services and used books in North America. 
Speller said the University of Notre Dame and Holy Cross College both use Follett to man­age their campus bookstores. 
The college also selected Follett to operate the bookstore for its textbook rental program, accord­ing to Speller. 
“Follett will offer new choices for students, most notably the 



Rogers 
continued from page 1 

senior year, when he made it all the way to the final round. 
“That last year, 1979, was the Bengal Bouts’ largest crowd ever,” Rogers said. “Over 7,900 fans attended my final fight.” 
accepted. He also tried for the master’s in creative writing graduate program with no suc­cess. His 12th application to Notre Dame finally earned him a spot in the University’s one-year master’s of law program in international human rights. 
“When I finally saw ‘Rudy’ 
for the first time, after I was accepted, I started yelling at the televi-
But Rogers “This isn’t some sion,” Rogers was fighting 
clown show. I fully said with a 
Bruce Belzer, a laugh. “I said, 
expect to win.” 
third-year law ‘Come on, Rudy, student. pay your dues! 
“We only Terrence Rogers Three rejections crossed paths is nothing.’” 
Bengal Bouts participant 
that one night,” Rogers said. Rogers broke Belzer’s jaw in the first round 
— the most serious injury ever sustained by a Bengal Bouts participant, Rogers said. Despite the injury, Belzer came back so strongly in the third and final round and, by a split decision, Belzer won. 
Rogers never got over that fight throughout his three-decade business career and stint in law school. 
“Having lost that fight, after being so close to winning, always stuck in my craw,” Rogers said. “I felt that I’d robbed myself of something I’d wanted since I was ten and that I should have achieved. I had the talent, I was in the moment three times, and I just couldn’t pull it off. It was a piece of unfinished business.” 
Rogers applied to the Notre Dame Law School over and over again but was never Bengal Bouts’ 
rules allow for 
four years of eli­gibility, so this year is Rogers’ last shot. 
But the only age restriction is that boxers must be over 18. 
“I have that (restriction) cov­ered three times,” he said. 
Rogers has heard plenty of criticism from those who doubt his ability to fight. But he also believes his age will give him an advantage, as he has gotten advice and training help from other older boxers. 
“This isn’t some clown show,” Rogers said. “I fully expect to win.” 
The second installment of this series will examine Rogers’ past experiences as a Notre Dame undergraduate and Bengal Bouts competitor. It will run in tomorrow’s Observer. 
Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 21, 2010 



SMC recognizes global Day of Peace 

By BRIANNE CARROLL 
News Writer 
This Tuesday, Saint Mary’s Campus Ministry will hold two events in recognition of the International Day of Peace. 
Students may gather in the student center between 10 
a.m. and 2 p.m. to create their own pinwheel for peace. Regina Wilson, assistant director of Campus Ministry, said students will write their hopes, dreams and wishes on the pinwheels to serve as a visual reminder of this global­ly recognized occasion. 
“It’s a way for Saint Mary’s to join in the worldwide com­munity in observance of peace; a way to invite stu­dents to stop in the middle of the day and reflect,” Wilson said. 
It is also important for stu­dents to learn about peace together, she said. 
The second event in obser­vance of International Peace Day will be held Tuesday 


Vote 
continued from page 1 
and political analyst for the South Bend Tribune, as well as an American studies pro­fessor. 
College Republicans presi­dent Josh Varanelli said each 
“Pizza, Pop and Politics” event will have a dif­ferent focus and also pro ­vide an oppor­tunity for stu­dent dialogue. 
“It’s meant to give students a clear, balanced backdrop upon which to deci­pher their own viewpoints on evening at 6:30 p.m. in the Student Center. Students will have the opportunity to view “Taking Root: the Vision of Wangari and Maathai,” a film that tells the story of a Kenyan woman who attempts to address environmental degradation and other human rights issues by planting trees. In conjunction with the justice education department, Saint Mary’s Environmental Action Coalition will lead stu­dents in a discussion follow­ing the film. 

“These are just two little, simple ways that we ask stu­dents to focus on the needs of the world to pursue peace; these things don’t register on people’s radar,” Wilson said. 
Last year, between 60 and 80 students attended these events on International Peace Day, she said, adding that the events foster a friendly envi­ronment and are open to all interested participants. 
Contact Brianne Carroll at bcarro01@saintmarys.edu 

the realm of politics if they are given the opportunity to learn about today’s topics from an objective standpoint. 
The purpose of NDVotes is mainly to expose students to the key areas of contention that dominate politics, he said. 
“I think every group involved would just like to see 
“I think every group involved would just like to see a general increase in political awareness.” 
Josh Varanelli president College Republicans 
a general increase in political aware­ness,” Varanelli said. “If NDVotes does nothing other than get stu ­dents to under­stand the way politics affects them directly, and pushes them towards becoming more 
the topics we see being fought over today,” he said. “Issues like health care, the economy and immigration, which are so relevant to our generation will be discussed.” 
Varanelli said College Republicans hopes more stu­dents will become involved in involved, it will have done its’ job well.” 

The first “Pizza, Pop, and Politics” is 5:30 p.m. today in the Geddes Hall Coffee House. 

Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 



Prof. envisions device for monitoring health 
Special to The Observer 
For Hsueh-Chia Chang, Bayer professor of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, the greatest uses of microfluidic tech­nology still lie ahead, in applica­tions that will help tackle some of the world’s toughest health and environmental problems. 
Chang’s vision is of easy-to-oper­ate, handheld devices that can rap­idly detect such things as pathogens in blood, toxins in food and water, and even track invasive species as they threaten crops and ecosystems. It is a vision in which the power of a modern research lab is concentrated into a smart-phone-sized tool that can be used to diagnose disease as easily in a remote village as it can in a city hospital. 

And it is a vision informed by a life journey that stretches from Southeast Asia to South Bend. 
“I have seen third world poverty firsthand,” Chang said. “I have also seen what malaria can do, as well as polio. Typhoid, TB and even cholera were always part of life. After I established myself academi­cally, I decided I should do some­thing that can impact human socie­ty. Rapid point-of-care diagnostics for the developing world happened to be something I can contribute to and I seized the opportunity.” 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 


Group discusses voting 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 

Voter registration and educa­tion on local political issues will create positive channels between Notre Dame students and the surrounding area, student body president Catherine Soler told Campus Life Council (CLC) Monday. 
Social Concerns chair Pat McCormick said the Center for Social Concerns and student gov­ernment teamed up to get stu­dents involved in the election. 
CLC members supported the campaign to vote in local elec­tions and learn more about important issues in the South Bend community. 
“We have put a lot of time and energy into this issue,” Soler said. “Voter registration gives us some of the best opportunities for com­munity involvement.” 
Recent negative energy between Notre Dame students and South Bend Police created tensions that could be helped if members of the community see the student 
body reaching them through  “We are encouraging all students ... to learn  state students in local elec­ 
the elections,  about the issues that  tions, he said.  
Soler said. “We  are  affect us most.”  “First, we are encouraging all  
encouraging  s t u d e n t s  
students  to  Pat McCormick  regardless  of  
take full mem­ chair  their state of  
bership in the community,”  Social Concerns Committee  residency to learn about the  
M c C o r m i c k  issues  that  
said.  affect us most,”  

Finding the best way for each McCormick said. “Education for student to participate in the local voters is a huge part of this idea.” community is the most important Second, students who are part of this project, Soler said. Indiana residents are strongly 
“What we are doing is essen­tially a three-tier process,” McCormick said. 
The campaign broke into com­
ponents of education, registration of Indiana vot­ers and involve­ment of out-of­encouraged to register to vote and learn about dominant issues in their home state, he said. 
Third, out-of-state students can legally switch their permanent residence to Indiana in order to vote in local elections, McCormick said, but this change might cause problems post-grad­uation based on state policies. Some students might find the transition back to their home state more difficult after switch­ing their permanent residency to Indiana, he said. 
“Students who are interested in that route should get advice from someone trained in legal issues to find out what that change would look like for them,” McCormick said. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 


page 5 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, September 21, 2010 


Gingrich 
continued from page 1 
history, and a conflict that goes on in the United States today.” 
At the end of the screen­ing, the Gingriches greeted audience members and posed for photos with mem­bers of the College Republicans. 
“It’s easier to be an athe­ist in America than a Christian,” Callista — a life­long Catholic — told The Observer after the screen­ing. 
Callista said there are many parallels between Poland under its communist regime and America today. 
“The opposition to school prayer and the removal of crosses from classrooms ” are two such similarities, she said. 
America is “going through a cycle [of secularism], ” Newt said, “and cycles like this have been overturned before.” 
He referenced St. Paul, who spread “seeds of Christianity” during a time of widespread paganism. 
“We need a new Aquinas, a new Benedict, new Wesley brothers,” Newt said. “We need politicians who will take on secularism and defend belief in Christ. 


“If you’re willing to endure the scorn of the news media, you’ll win the support of the American people,” he said. 
Newt, who converted to Catholicism in March 2009, acknowledged the personal and political implications of his new faith. 
“The power of being accepted by the Church and receiving the Eucharist into your life … certainly shapes how you look at the world in general,” he said. 
In addition to speaking generally about Catholicism, Newt also said positive things about Notre Dame as a Catholic university. 
“I can’t imagine any place better in America to show the film,” he said. 
Contact Ellie Hall at ehall4@nd.edu 



Military training sparks Utah fire 

Associated Press 
HERRIMAN, Utah — The com­mander of the Utah Army National Guard took responsibility Monday for a fast-moving wildfire that led to the evacuation of 1,600 homes, saying Guard officials erred when they allowed live-fire training despite high wind warnings. 
Gen. Brian Tarbet said he was “deeply sorry” about what he called a “systematic failure” at Camp Williams, about 30 miles south of Salt Lake City. The flames also destroyed three houses and damaged a fourth. 
“Our mission is to support our citizens, not to endanger them, and we failed in that yesterday,” Tarbet said. 
Tarbet said no one checked to see if the National Weather Service had posted a “red flag” high-wind warning before permitting the machine gun exercise to proceed in tinder-dry conditions. He also said guard commanders waited two hours to call outside fire agen­cies for help. 
It was only the latest example of military training activities sparking large fires at Camp Williams and other facilities. 

Utah National Guard officials say they can usually contain any flames, but local leaders ques­tioned the decision to fire weapons at all. 
“It’s a regular occurrence with any type of training — small flare­ups we deal with,” Lt. Col. Hank McIntire said Monday as the fire retreated to the interior of the camp, which, at 44 square miles, is nearly twice the size of Manhattan. 
The blaze was 20 percent con­tained by Monday evening, fire spokeswoman Kim Osborn said. 
The flames were ignited Sunday by practice rounds from a .50-cal­iber machine gun. National Guard crews thought they had the blaze quickly contained, until overnight winds of more than 40 mph fanned the fire across more than 6 square miles. 
“People are upset, and I don’t blame them,” Salt Lake County Sheriff Jim Winder said Monday. “They’re getting chased out of their house in the middle of night.” 
The National Guard pitched in to fight the flames, deploying 120 sol­diers, as well as seven bulldozers and three Black Hawk helicopters. 
When the drill got under way, the National Guard said the fire hazard was moderate. There was little wind, temperatures were below 75 degrees and humidity was 13 percent, typical for Utah’s dry climate. 
“Our fire crews were on standby, responded and corralled the fire. They got it under control, but the winds came up, and the fire spread and got beyond what we could handle ourselves,” McIntire said. 
Fires caused by artillery shells or other weapons at military installa­tions are not uncommon. In May 2007, a flare dropped from an F­16 on a training flight sparked a fire that burned 17,000 acres in New Jersey. Artillery practice sparked a huge wildfire in July 2009 outside Marseille, France. 
Sunday’s fire destroyed three homes, not four as originally reported by fire officials. It also destroyed several sheds, recre­ational vehicles and damaged a water pump house. 

Panel 
continued from page 1 

“We also advise that some­body at the party stays sober to deal with officials,” Rynearson said. 
When students at an off-cam­pus party comply with police the entire process will go more smoothly for everyone, Rynearson said. 
Communication can make the difference between a positive and negative direction, Rynearson said. 
“It does not take Sherlock Holmes to figure out that being respectful to law enforcement is the best way to 
go,” Deputy Prosecutor Eric Ta m a s h a s k y  “It does not take Sherlock Holmes to  said. “I think the best advice I can give you is  
said. Students are not clear on when and how  fgure out that being respectful to law enforcement is the  not to drink until you are 21.” Soler said the  
to refuse a b r e a t ha l y z e r  best way to go.”  discussion was a learning  
when the test is requested by police, Soler  Rudy Monterrosa defense attorney  opportunity for students and will hopefully  
said.  help  students  
“You  can  approach  any  

exercise your right to refuse a future encounters with law portable breath test at a house enforcement safely. party but you have to be willing “The discussion could have to face the consequences that lasted four to five hours because come with that,” defense attor-there are so many questions to ney Rudy Monterrosa said. be asked,” Soler said. 
If police have sufficient reason Sophomore Mike McCarty to believe that a minor violated said the questions answered by underage drinking laws, he or the panel covered relevant top-she can be arrested after refus-ics. ing a portable breath test, “We live in a bubble,” Monterrosa McCarty said. said. “This is a step 
The panel in the right 
“We are very pleased 
also outlined the direction for 
with the reception of
legal process understanding after charges of the student body to what goes on minor con-outside that.” 
the events under 
sumption have The panel dis­
beND and the general
been raised. cussion ended a 
idea of being weekend of Representatives activities under 
informed.” 
from the St. the beND cam-Joseph County paign, student 
Catherine Soler
prosecutor ’s government’s office fielded student body president effort to engage 
Monterrosa said students should also seek legal help from a lawyer during this process. 
“The best advice I can give students is to not go through this without an attorney,” Monterrosa said. 
ORLH director Jeff Shoup said his office will help students con­nect to local attorneys should they be in need of legal advice. 
The panel also provided stu­dents with information on the range of costs and fines dealing with underage drinking and legal action after charges of minor consumption. 
“While we are not living in the prohibition era we are living in a country that says you cannot drink under the age of 21,” 
Monterrosa 
questions about pretrial diver­sion as well as heading to court on charges of minor consump­tion. 
Linda Scopelitis from the St. Joseph County prosecutor’s office said pretrial diversion covers requirements like com­munity service, paying fines and avoiding other legal trouble. 
Failure to comply with all aspects of the program could send a student back to court, Scopelitis said. 
“Please do not think this is like Monopoly and pretrial diversion is a ‘get out of jail free’ card,” Scopelitis said. 
the student 
body with the South Bend community, Soler said. 
The beND campaign is an umbrella for the more specific efforts, ranging from voter reg­istration to community service to education on alcohol issues, to tie the student body to the community. 
“We are very pleased with the reception of the student body to the events under beND and the general idea of being informed,” Soler said. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 



Calif. utility company unearths animal fossils 
Associated Press 

RIVERSIDE, Calif. — A utility company preparing to build a new substation in an arid canyon southeast of Los Angeles has stumbled on a trove of animal fossils dating back 1.4 million years that researchers say will fill in blanks in Southern California’s history. 
The well-preserved cache con­tains nearly 1,500 bone frag­ments, including a giant cat that was the ancestor of the saber-toothed tiger, ground sloths the size of a modern-day grizzly bear, two types of camels and more than 1,200 bones from small rodents. Other finds include a new species of deer, horse and possibly llama, researchers affili­ated with the project said. 
Workers doing grading for the substation also uncovered signs of plant life that indicate marsh reeds and birch, pine, sycamore and oak trees once grew in the area that is now dry and sparsely vegetated. 
The fossils representing 35 species have all been removed from the site and will be on dis­play at the Western Science Center in nearby Hemet starting next year. 
Tuesday, September 21, 2010 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS page 6 


BP oil well in Gulf of 
Bordergovernorsseekreform 
Associated Press 
SANTA FE, N.M. — U.S. and Mexican border governors called Monday for reform of 
U.S. immigration policies, but New Mexico Gov. Bill Richardson said it’s unrealistic to expect Congress to act on the hot-button political issue before the November general election. 
Richardson made his com­ments at the close of a border governors meeting, which was held in New Mexico after Arizona Gov. Jan Brewer can­celed the event in Phoenix because of a planned boycott by Mexican governors over Arizona’s new immigration law. 
Richardson was the only U.S. governor to participate along with the governors of six Mexican states. California Lt. Gov. Abel Maldonado filled in for ailing Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger. The gover­nors of Texas and Arizona did not attend. 
A joint statement by the gov­ernors said they “recognize the need for comprehensive immi­gration reform” in the United States and for a deportation process “based on the funda­mental premise of respecting the human dignity and human rights of individuals being repa­triated.” 
Richardson said he hoped that immigration reform would become a major priority for Congress next year and that the groundwork could be laid for legislation after the general election. 
“There has to be a national effort, and it’s really up to Democrats and Republicans alike. It’s not just a partisan issue,” Richardson told a news conference. 
The Democratic governor, whose term ends this year, said legislation should include tougher enforcement against businesses that hire illegal 



Mexico declared dead 
immigrants as well as a path to legalization for immigrants who learn English, pay back taxes and a fine. 
The governors said in their statement that there’s been a “lack of coordination, informa­tion exchange and joint activi­ties” on border security by the 
U.S. and Mexican federal gov­ernments and they called for improvements to border cross­ings to improve the flow of international trade. 
Richardson and several Mexican governors said it was important to meet despite the tension over Arizona’s immi­gration law. 
“This meeting clearly shows the political maturity that we have,” said Sonora Gov. Guillermo Padres Elias, whose remarks in Spanish were trans­lated into English. 
Richardson said, “We want dialogue, not division.” 


disaster, said Sunday that BP’s well “is effectively dead” and posed no further threat to the Gulf. Allen said a pres­sure test to ensure the cement plug would hold was completed at 5:54 a.m. CDT. 
But there is still plenty of oil in the water, and some continues to wash up on shore. Many people are still struggling to make ends meet with some waters still closed to fishing. Shrimpers who are allowed to fish are finding it difficult to sell their catch because of the perception — largely from people outside the region — that the seafood is not safe to eat. Tourism along the Gulf has also taken a hit. 
The April 20 blast killed 11 workers, and 206 million gal­lons (780 million liters) of oil spewed. 
The gusher was contained in mid-July after a temporary cap was successfully fitted atop the well. Mud and cement were later pushed down through the top of the well, allowing the cap to be removed. 
But the well could not be declared dead until a relief well was drilled so that the ruptured well could be sealed from the bottom, ensuring it never causes a problem again. The relief well inter­sected the blown-out well last Thursday, and crews started ronmental and economic nightmare for people who live, work and play along hundreds of miles of Gulf shoreline from Florida to Texas. It also spurred civil and criminal investigations, cost gaffe -prone BP chief Tony Hayward his job and brought increased govern­mental scrutiny of the oil and gas industry, including a cost­ly moratorium on deepwater offshore drilling that is still in place. 
p u m p i n g  i n  t h e  c e m e n t  
Friday.  
The spill caused  an  envi - 

The disaster also has taken a toll on the once mighty oil giant BP PLC. The British company’s stock price took a nosedive after the explosion, though it has recovered somewhat. Its image as a steward of the environment was stained and its stated commitment to safety was challenged. Owners of BP-branded gas stations in the 
U.S. were hit with lost sales, as customers protested at the pump. 
And on the financial side: BP has already shelled out $9.5 billion in cleanup costs, and the company has prom­ised to set aside another $20 billion for a victims compen­sation fund. The company could face tens of billions of dollars more in government fines and legal costs from hundreds of pending law ­suits. 
BP took some of the blame for the Gulf oil disaster in an internal report issued earlier this month, acknowledging among other things that its workers misinterpreted a key pressure test of the well. But in a possible preview of its legal strategy, it also pointed the finger at its partners on the doomed rig. 
BP was a majority owner of the well that blew out, and it was leasing the rig that exploded from owner Transocean Ltd. 

Associated Press 

The well that spewed mil­lions of gallons of oil into the Gulf of Mexico is finally dead, but residents will be feeling the pain for years to come. 
A permanent cement plug sealed BP’s well nearly 2.5 miles (4 kilometers) below the sea floor, five agonizing months after an explosion sank a drilling rig and led to the worst offshore oil spill in 
U.S. history. 

Retired Coast Guard Adm. Thad Allen, the federal gov­ernment’s point man on the 

page 7 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Tuesday, September 21, 2010 


Obama asks for voters’help 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama reached out fervently Monday to skeptical voters who are still hurting long after the declared end of the recession, imploring them to stick with him in elections that could inflict catastrophic losses on Democrats in just six weeks. 
Recognizing the economy is the campaign’s Issue No. 1 ­and a peril for his party ­Obama vigorously defended his recovery efforts and chal­lenged tea party activists as well as the Republicans who are clamoring to take over Congress to spell just how they would do better. 
Republicans said that’s just what they intended to do, on Thursday. House Republicans said they would roll out a roughly 20-point agenda -on jobs, spending, health care, national security and reforming Congress -at a hardware store in subur­ban Virginia. 
Unimpressed in advance, the president said, “We have tried what they’re offering.” Addressing the GOP and tea party candidates, he said, “It’s not enough just to say, ‘Get control of government.’” 
Campaign style, Obama fin­ished his town hall-like event 
on the economy and then headed to Pennsylvania to raise money and rally dispir­ited Democrats for Joe Sestak in a tough Senate race against Republican Pat Toomey. 
The president has just a month and a half to make the case for keeping Democrats in charge in Washington to voters itching for change. He cast Democrats as fighters for the middle class and Republicans as protectors of millionaires, billionaires and special inter­ests. 
The GOP, in turn, lambast­ed the president. 
“Once again, President Obama trotted out the same old worn-out reassurances 
on the economy, but Americans are still waiting for the promised recovery that never arrived,” said Republican Party Chairman Michael Steele. And Toomey linked Sestak to Obama, faulting both for an agenda “that’s keeping unemploy­ment high” and policies “that have prevented us from hav­ing the kind of economic recovery that we could and should be having.” 
At the Washington event, Obama repeatedly expressed sympathy for people still out of work and struggling despite economists’ asser­tions that the Great Recession of 2007-2009 had ended. In fact, the National Bureau of Economic Research said earlier Monday that the downturn ended in June of last year. 
For the millions of people who are jobless and strug­gling, “it’s still very real for them,” the president said. He added that people are frus­trated because progress has been “slow and steady” instead of “the kind of quick fixes that I think a lot of peo­ple would like to see.” 
Obama acknowledged that his policy accomplishments may not be playing well politically and that the diffi­cult economic conditions ­including a nearly 10 percent unemployment rate -are hindering his ability to con­vince people that a revival is under way. 
His economic focus could be risky. Republicans are trying to cast the elections as a national referendum on the president and the sluggish recovery, while Democrats seek to localize races to focus on the choices voters have between individual can­didates. But Obama has little choice but to talk jobs; doing otherwise would make him look out of touch to a public that overwhelmingly rates unemployment and the recovery as top issues. 
“I can describe what’s hap­pening to the economy over­all, but if you’re out of work right now, the only thing that you’re going to be hearing is, when do I get a job? If you’re about to lose your home, all you’re thinking about is, when can I get my home?” 
His audience at the event sponsored by CNBC included large and small business owners, teachers, students and unemployed people. They seemed friendly -he was applauded repeatedly ­though several people pep­pered him with questions that indicated their frustra­tion, if not disillusionment, with his tenure. 

“I voted for a man who said he was going to change things in a meaningful way for the middle class. I am one of those people. And I’m waiting, Sir. ... I don’t feel it yet,” said Velma Hart, the chief financial officer of AMVETS in Washington, describing how the recession has taken a toll on her fami­ly. “Is this my new reality? 
“I understand your frustra­tion,” Obama responded. “My goal is not to convince you that everything is where it ought to be. It’s not.” Still, he added: “We’re moving in the right direction.” 
“There aren’t jobs out there right now,” countered Ted Brassfield, 30, a recent law school graduate. He praised Obama for inspiring his generation during 2008 but said that inspiration is dying away. He asked, “Is the American dream dead for me?” 
“Absolutely not,” Obama responded. “What we can’t do, though is go back to the same old things that we were doing because we’ve been putting off these problems for decades.” 
Walter Rowen, the owner 

of Susquehanna Glass in Columbia, Pa., urged the president to explain his eco­nomic policies because the public “doesn’t get” them. “You’re losing the war of sound bites. You’re losing the media cycles.” 
Answered Obama: “The politicizing of so many deci­sions that are out there has to be toned down. We’ve got to get back to working together.” 
And Anthony Scaramucci, a hedge fund manager and a Harvard Law School class­mate of Obama, spoke on behalf of Wall Street, saying: “We have felt like a pinata. Maybe you don’t feel like you’re whacking us with a stick, but we certainly feel like we’ve been whacked with a stick.” 
To that, Obama retorted: “I think most folks on Main Street feel like they got beat up on.” 


Fake bomb prompts arrest in Chicago 
setting off smoking devices in 
Associated Press 

downtown locations near City 
CHICAGO — A man arrested Hall, authorities said. for allegedly placing a back-“No killing. There is no pack he thought contained killing,” he told the inform-an explosive near Chicago’s ant, according to the com-Wrigley Field also talked plaint. about poisoning Lake But his plans became more Michigan, bombing a land-grand, as he believed bigger mark skyscraper and assas-acts would command public sinating Mayor Richard attention and embarrass the Daley, according to a federal mayor, according to the com-complaint filed Monday. plaint. 
Sami Samir Hassoun, 22, a “Little by little, I’m building Lebanese citizen living in it up,” he said, according to Chicago for about three years, the complaint. “I will shake was charged with one count Chicago.” each of attempted use of a Hassoun ’s alleged plots weapon of ranged dur­mass destruc-ing the tion and investigation. attempted use They includ­of an explosive ed talk of 
“He wanted to transform 
device. plans to 
the city of Chicago, he
“He wanted unleash a to transform wanted to make a bi ologic al the city of virus on 
statement and he wanted 
Chicago, he Chicago and 
to replace the mayor of
wanted to bombing the make a state-Chicago.” Willis Tower, ment and he formerly wanted to known as the 
Robert Grant 
replace the Sears Tower, 
FBI Special Agent
mayor of the com ­
Chicago,” said FBI Special Agent in Charge Robert Grant. “He was unhappy with the way the city was running. He was also unhappy with things that were happening in other parts of world.” 
At a brief hearing Monday, Hassoun quietly told U.S. Judge Susan Cox that he understood the charges. Hassoun’s federally appointed public defender Dan McLaughlin, declined to com­ment on the case, as did several family members who attended the hearing. A message left on an answering machine at Hassoun’s home telephone num­ber wasn’t returned. 
An FBI informant tipped investigators about Hassoun nearly a year ago, the agency said. Grant said Hassoun acted alone and that the undercover agents told him they were from California and unaffiliat­ed with any group. He declined to offer specif­ic details about H a s s o u n ’s motivations, but said he “He was not highly never was in believed the any danger. 

skilled, but I think he was 
agents were Police said 
definitely desirous of
ready to give Daley -who him money if obtaining the material has been in he carried out needed to carry out his China for a the attack. business trip 
attack.” 
Hassoun -was was arrested informed of early Sunday Robert Grant the plot over after planting FBI Special Agent the week ­
the fake expl osive device -which was given to him by an undercover agent -in a trash receptacle near Sluggers World Class Sports Bar, a pop­ular bar steps from Wrigley Field, Grant said. The Cubs were not playing at their home field; the stadium host­ed Dave Matthews Band con­certs Friday and Saturday nights. 
The informant befriended Hassoun over the course of a year, conducting conversa­tions in Arabic, which were taped and shared with the FBI. In that time, Hassoun waffled greatly on his plans. 
Initially, he didn’t want to cause violence, suggesting plaint said. 
Hassoun on 
one occasion 
told the informant he wanted to para­lyze commerce in the city, according to the complaint. Asked how he intended to carry out various suggested attacks, Hassoun responded, “You park the car, and let it go ‘boom,’” the complaint says. 
Grant said Hassoun wanted to start his own organization and planned to flee to California after the device went off in Wrigleyville. 
“He was not highly skilled, but I think he was definitely desirous of obtaining the material needed to carry out his attack,” Grant said. 
Shortly before the plot near Wrigley Field, the informant introduced Hassoun to the undercover agents who Hassoun believed were friends and would pay for the 
attack to be 
carried out. 

Chi cago 
authorities 
said Daley 
end. 

“We were 
always in 
control of 
this investi­gation,” said Chicago Police Superintendent Jody Weis. 
There have been other cases involving FBI agents posing as terror operatives and supplying suspects with bogus explosives. Last year, authorities arrested a Jordanian national after he allegedly attempted to deto­nate what he thought was a bomb outside a Dallas sky­scraper. In an unrelated case, authorities in Springfield, Ill., arrested another man after he allegedly tried he tried to set off what he thought was explosives in a van outside a federal courthouse. 
The Observer 


Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesday, September 21, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Lazy Sunday 

Sunday is a day of rest — so says God, so says the Bible, so says I. Yet Sunday looms in my mind as the day when I need to accomplish a million and one things on my “To Do” list. 
This list goes something like Marissa Frobes this: one hun­dred pages of Assistant reading I did Scene Editor not finish last week, two hun­dred to get done for next week, start a paper, study for a test, call mom, clean room, etcetera etcetera. What I plan on doing and what I actually get done are two completely different things. 
I set my alarm for 9 a.m., but in the morning decide that lis­tening to my iHome (and stand-in alarm clock) for three hours until noon is less annoying than climbing down my loft to shut it off and inevitably begin my depressing day. 
At noon, once I actually force myself to see daylight, I plan on heading to South for a quick bite to eat before my excursion to the library. I convince myself 30 minutes is enough to enjoy brunch. 
Next thing I know, it is my friends, the dining hall employ­ees and I left at South Dining Hall. It is 2:45 p.m., and though I have pieced together what my friends and I have actually been doing for the past two days, I have yet to cross off a single thing on my list. 
Brow furrowed, I run through the huddle and grab a triple­grande latte to sneak into the library. I finally arrive at around 
3:15 p.m., settle into my favorite table in the back-right corner and open a book. 
I find myself reading the same sentence over and over for approximately 20 minutes. Then Facebook albums from the week­end start blowing up my news feed — there is no hope for homework at this point until at least after dinner. Do I want to go to Chipotle? Of course, the walk to Eddy Street alone adds about 30 minutes to my meal, and I will do anything in the holy name of procrastination. 
By the time I get back on cam­pus, I decide to work in my sin­gle because surely I will be more productive alone. I sit down on my futon with a book, put “Keeping Up With the Kardashians” on low volume and get to work. But I get completely immersed in the woes of Kortney and Khloe and am therefore completely incapable of reading or even skimming. It is 11 p.m. and I have nothing accom­plished. 
Without a doubt, this is the way my Sundays play out. I am in the process of convincing myself that acceptance is the first step to recovery — maybe if I own up to my lethargy and have a Lazy Sunday, I can at least begin my week well rested rather than disappointed in my lack of productivity. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Marissa Frobes at mfrobes@nd.edu 
Conference realignment 101 
Saturday night marked the end of Notre Dame’s annual early-season string games against Big Ten opponents. As such, it seems like a fitting time to dis­cuss our relationship with our large, geo­graphical neigh­bors. If you turned Andy Ziccarelli on ESPN at any time during the 
Moment of 
month of June, 
intertia 

you know that the Big Ten Conference was looking to expand from its current 11 members to either 12, 14 or possibly even 16 schools. The motiva­tion, simply, is increased revenue. If the Big Ten could expand to 12 teams, they could add an additional market for their self-promoting cable network and imple­ment a corporate sponsored, prime-time football championship game (read: money grab). The Pac 10 followed suit and set out to raid the Big 12 conference, eventually swiping Colorado, nearly tak­ing five additional schools, and setting off alarms all across the country. When the Big Ten set out to find the best candidate for its 12th member, Notre Dame, as the prominent independent in the country (located in the Midwest, no less), was obviously the Big Ten’s golden goose. As it turned out, Notre Dame stayed true to its independent roots (for now, anyway) and the Big Ten, looking to make a splash, ended up with football power Nebraska. 
But the fact that the conversation even happened raises some important issues. I’ve heard some fellow students say, “I think it would be kind of cool to join the Big Ten” and, “It would be nice to be in a conference, for once.” And those are the kind of comments that will draw an angry glare from this writer. Many stu­dents simply do not understand why independence is not only preferable, but necessary for Notre Dame to maintain its identity. So, fellow students, if anybody 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
asks you if you think Notre Dame should join the Big Ten, the answer is (and always will be) a firm, resounding “no.” Here’s why: 
This is an issue that can be looked at from a number of different angles. I’ll first consider the highest profile case: football. Before you dismiss football as a secondary issue, consider the fact that Notre Dame, as a university, is what it is today thanks to the success of its football team. Notre Dame is, and always has been, an independent football team. Oh, we tried to join the Big Ten back in the early 1900s, but Fielding Yost and Michigan wouldn’t be associated with a group of blue collar Catholics. So, black­balled by our geographical neighbors, the Irish set out to play teams across the country, traveling from New York to Georgia to California and winning every­where along the way. Since we didn’t have a conference to win, national cham­pionships became the only standard, and that standard continues today. What dis­tinguishes Notre Dame from the other Midwestern football powers is its truly national appeal. 
Every game is shown on national tele­vision, Notre Dame has legions of fans spanning the whole country and our team plays a national and diverse sched­ule. Within the next five years, Notre Dame is scheduled to play Oklahoma, Miami, Texas, Arizona State and Maryland, in addition to the regulars on our schedule which span across the country. Contrast that to playing likely nine or ten games per year in the Big Ten’s geographical footprint, with excit­ing games against teams like Indiana and Minnesota. Now imagine doing that every single year. Joining the Big Ten would only serve to further marginalize (and regionalize) a program that has been doing it to itself for the last 16 years. In joining a conference (any con­ference), Notre Dame would lose its most distinguishing characteristic. 
Beyond football, though, Notre Dame is simply not a good institutional fit for the conference. The conference is populated by 10 (soon to be 11) mammoth, public, state universities and one secular private school. What unites all 12 is their non­religious backgrounds and their commit­ment to research over undergraduate education. Why I, and most students, decided to come to Notre Dame as an undergrad was the feeling of community that I felt on campus, which is fostered by an institution that prioritizes under­graduate growth and learning. Additionally, the religious aspect of Notre Dame cannot be overlooked, as our Catholic roots will likely put us at direct odds with potential research performed in the conference, like stem cell research. And, as the only likely objector, Notre Dame would likely be on the wrong end of a lot of 12-1 votes. That is, unless Notre Dame decides it wants to become a research institution (and there is a feeling that we are headed in that direction, anyway). If that ever happens, the University will be so fundamentally different that it will be unrecognizable, and Notre Dame as we know it will no longer exist. 
And that, fellow students, is why we need to stay true to our roots. The Big Ten, despite my criticism, is actually a fantastic organization that has a lot of great people doing great things for the world. Many universities across the country would be proud to be part of such a group. Notre Dame just shouldn’t be one of them. 
Andy Ziccarelli is a senior majoring in civil engineering. He welcomes your adulation and veiled threats at aziccare@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Battle not with monsters, lest yebecome a monster, and if you gazeinto the abyss, the abyss gazes alsointo you.” 
Friedrich Nietzsche German philosopher 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“If you can solve your problem, thenwhat is the need of worrying? If youcannot solve it, then what is the use of worrying?” 
Shantideva Indian scholar 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, September 21, 2010 page 9 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Protecting our own 
Something much of the Notre Dame community is probably unaware of is that a portion of the Band of the Fighting Irish was effectively “smashed” into a wall by the MSU football team as they celebrated their OT win this weekend. Several instruments were damaged and several band members have soreness and injuries they didn’t get from marching. 
I was one of the saxes who got caught in the mob and while I am angry and amazed at the lack of class on the part of the MSU football team, I really just want to thank the members of the Notre Dame staff who tried to get them off of us. It all happened very quickly and I would argue intentionally, but I thank God that no one was seriously injured. Again, thank you to those who came to our aid, because as much as I con­sider myself to be pretty tough, I know I am no match for a mob of 6’5,” 300-lb. football players. 
Erin Reinke 
senior Welsh Family Hall Sept. 19 

Appearance protest 
I am always amazed at the contortions people go through to justify the positions of their favorite politicians and politi­cal parties. Sean Mullen and Andrew Lynch tell us that it was appropriate to protest Barack Obama’s appearance because of his position on abortion, because abortion is intrinsically evil. However, they argue, no one should have protested Newt Gingrich regarding his pro-death penalty, pro-war, pro-tor­ture views (which run counter to Christ’s teaching) because they are not “intrinsicaly evil.” Oh really? By the logic of Mr. Mullen and Mr. Lynch, if Adolf Hitler were alive and speaking at Notre Dame we should not protest him, because Hitler, too, was pro-life, and his policies led to “only” 11 milliion deaths in the Holocaust. I am weary of people who see abortion as the only evil in the world. And who only see evil in Democrats. Evil is evil, I would submit. It is all bad. 
John Monczunski 
associate editor Notre Dame Magazine Sept. 20 

Health care bill and abortion 
I am writing in response to Mr. Mullen’s let­ter to The Observer (“Gingrich is not Obama,” Sept. 20). In the letter, he claims that the healthcare reform bill provides government funding for abortion. I am writing to inform him that his claim is factually inaccurate. 
Currently, the law of the land concerning the public funding of abortion is contained in the Hyde amendment. This amendment states that federal money cannot be used for abor­tions. The only exceptions are “in cases of rape, incest or when the life of the mother is at stake.” This has been the status quo since 1977. If this is what Mr. Mullen is suggesting, then yes, there are some cases of federal dol­lars being used for abortion. However, I think that Mr. Mullen refers to how the health care bill would change the status quo. 
One major aspect of the bill is the creation of health insurance exchanges run by the states. A health insurance exchange is a place where small businesses and individuals who want health insurance can be grouped together by their state to get affordable health care. In each exchange, there will be multiple health care plans. Some of these plans could cover abortions, but there must be at least one plan that does not cover abor­tions. So if someone who is pro-life wants to enter an exchange, they will have the option to not pay premiums to an insurance compa­ny that covers abortion. Now, let’s say that someone is in the exchange, is receiving a federal subsidy, and wants to get an abortion. Federal money will not be used as mandated by law. The insurance company will have to calculate the cost of the abortion, and sepa­rate it from the rest of that person’s health care costs, so that the person’s abortion does not have any federal aid. 
This also goes without mentioning that President Obama recently signed an execu­tive order to give extra assurance of the pro­tection to the Hyde amendment under the health care bill. 
To conclude: Mr. Mullen, you are entitled to your own opinions, but not your own facts. 
Adam Newman 
sophomore Stanford Hall Sept. 20 
Shake up the thunder 
I confess that I did not grow up a Notre Dame football fan, but my freshman year turned me into a fervent convert, and this convert’s zeal is what impels me to write on the issues of two abuses which cause me dis­tress. 
The first is directed to freshmen: Slow down! At the past two home games, I’ve noticed that the Freshman section claps, sings, and cheers at a cadence much faster than is proper. I certainly admire your enthu­siasm — really, I do — but your tempo is off. The Notre Dame band, leprechauns and lovely cheerleaders are well versed. Look to them (particularly the lovely cheerleaders), and they will lead you in the correct performance of our beloved songs and cheers. 
This, however, is nothing compared to the dismay I feel when I look over to the junior and senior sections, however. While no upper­classman friend of mine is guilty of this (for I keep good company), very few of their confr­eres join in supporting our team with heart, hands and voice! Where are the cheers? Where are the curses of death uttered against our opponents? For shame, juniors and sen­iors, for shame. The sunburnt, clap-happy freshmen are beating you in Irish pride. 
I know it’s been a rough season, but let that not deter us from giving our players, our school and our tradition their due. 
And if anyone is hungry before the game, I heartily recommend Knights of Columbus steak sandwiches, sold every home game out­side the Knights’ Hall on South Quad. Go Irish, and let’s shake up some thunder from the upperclassmen. 
Todd Velianski 
sophomore Keough Hall Sept. 20 

UWIRE 

Comedy Central goes to Washington 
As a satirical response to Glenn Beck’s rally to “Restore Honor,” Jon Stewart and Stephen Colbert are having rallies of their own at the National Mall on Oct. 30. 
Stewart’s “Rally to Restore Sanity” and Colbert’s “March to Keep Fear Alive” 
will ridicule the overzealous- Indiana Daily  
ness of Beck’s rally but in dif- Student  
ferent ways.  
Stewart’s rally, with the  Staff Editorial  
motto, “Take it down a notch  
for America,” is a call to tone  

down the fanatical rhetoric being spewed on both sides, and is a plea for rationality and reasonable­ness in a media landscape dominated by the loudest and craziest sector of the population. 
One of his protest signs reads, “I disagree with you, but, I’m pretty sure you’re not Hitler.” 
Colbert’s rally, with the motto, “Now is the time for all good men to freak out for freedom,” is attempting to communicate the same message as Stewart’s, but as is customary for Colbert, it will parody Beck’s fear-mongering to make its point. 
These rallies have the potential to be a provoca­tive form of civic engagement through the use of satire and humor, but we hope that the message stays comical and lighthearted. 
If either of these rallies transitions from mocking criticism to abrasive derision, they will be no better than their opposition. 
And because Stewart announced that his rally will feature special guests, we hope the event does not become a campaign tool for political candidates, as the “Restore Honor” rally seemed to be for Sarah Palin. 
By keeping the rhetoric playful and farcical, and in a sense, antithetical to Beck’s rhetoric, his mes­sage can be subverted and made to look foolish. 
An exemplary use of political satire occurred before the 2004 presidential election when a group called “Billionaires for Bush” took to the streets. 
They described themselves as “Ruly bands of Billionaires” who will “roam the streets of New York, stopping for three-martini lunches and spon­taneous outbursts of ballroom dancing.” 
The participants dressed themselves in tuxedos, top hats and elegant gowns and flaunted signs such as “Widen the income gap” and “We’re selling your future today!” 
Arvind Singhal and Karen Greiner write that, “Through playful actions, satire and ridicule, ‘Billionaires for Bush’ engaged both participants and observers to expose the nexus between the presidency and right-wing, upper-class, neo-con­servatives.” 
Stewart and Colbert’s rallies can accomplish a similar feat, especially because these events might garner a wider audience than their individual tele­vision shows. 
If they can successfully contrast the dogmatic lunacy of Beck’s rally with the composed rationality of Stewart’s and the exaggerated antics of Colbert’s, their message might reach and affect more people. 
But if these rallies become lectures rather than vaudevillian spoofs, their message might get lost among the rhetoric. 
This column first appeared in the Sept. 20 edition of The Indiana Daily Student, the daily publication serving the Indiana University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Tuesday, September 21, 2010 




does not actually do anything physical screen adaptation of the bestseller hip parents, making every scene they By BRANDY CERNE with them, but the whole school “The Help.” She transforms slightly are in a highlight of “Easy A.” Grossly Scene Writer believes she does. better than average material into gold under-utilized, Lisa Kudrow has a Olive takes inspiration from her in “Easy A,” with some help from her small role as Olive’s guidance coun-Any reputation is better than no rep-English class, where the current book castmates. selor, which is mostly devoid of laughs. utation. Or at least high school student assignment is Nathaniel Hawthorne’s Penn Badgley adequately takes on the Olive Penderghast (Emma Stone) “The Scarlet Letter.” She buys a whole role of Olive’s Jake Ryan-esque crush, thinks so. Fed up with being unknown new wardrobe of corset tops, skinny which is appropriate considering there in her high school, she decides to take black jeans and heels and sews a red is a whole scene of Olive wishing her advantage of a rumor so that her fel­“A” onto all her shirts. life was more like a John Hughes film. “Easy A” low students will finally know who she At times it can be confusing as to While it is an enjoyable, funny high is. Now, most people would not want why Olive would take this persona so school comedy skewering the ludi­the identity she receives, but Olive far. Maybe she just enjoys being talked crousness of reputations and the doesn’t just accept her role. She about at all, or she may just enjoy Directed By: Will Gluck rumor mill, “Easy A” is no “Mean embraces it wholeheartedly, at least on annoying the overly pious Marianne Girls.” The film presents plenty of Starring: Emma Stone, Pennthe surface, in “Easy A,” directed by and her 
Christian group of friends, humorous one-liners, but it has a Badgley, Stanely Tucci, Will Gluck. even causing them to bring protest much smaller scope. Olive’s dilemma After Holy Roller Marianne (Amanda signs to school. Patricia Clarkson is not as relatable to the majority of Bynes) overhears and spreads a false It is easy to overlook Olive’s ques­people’s high school experiences as in story of how Olive lost her virginity, tionable actions and flimsy plot past high school set classics such as Olive is both shocked and pleased to motives because of the charm of “Easy the aforementioned “Mean Girls” and be the talk of the school, even if the A,” and above all, star Emma Stone. John Hughes films. Still, it offers a subject matter is her promiscuity. The Stone makes every line shine with a funny and honest portrayal of the dis-source of her newfound reputation? wit that is becoming rare with the semination of information among She agreed to help out a gay friend onslaught of pretty but dull 20-some­teenagers, and is worth seeing if for who is continually picked on by pre­thing actresses. Audiences will leave nothing else than the hilarious per-tending to sleep with him. the film wanting to be friends with her formances by Stone, Tucci and What starts as a favor turns into a and wondering why Olive was so invis-The rest of the cast is fleshed out Clarkson. small business — guys are allowed to ible to begin with. Stone deserves to with plenty of familiar faces. Stanley say they hooked up with Olive if they land quality films in the future, and Tucci and Patricia Clarkson play the Contact Brandy Cerne at pay her with various gift cards. She she is already attached to the big-outstanding supporting roles of Olive’s bcerne1@nd.edu 
 
Visit ndsmcobserver.com  

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 


The Observer 

Scene
Tuesday, September 21, 2010 page 11 


By CAITLIN FERRARO 
Scene Writer 

Last spring McKinley High’s New Directions glee club placed third at regionals, leaving them in the precari­ous position of being almost disband­ed. But thanks to the usually villainous Sue Sylvester (Jane Lynch) the glee club will be back in action tonight at 8 
p.m. on FOX as the highly anticipated second season of “Glee” premieres. 
Created and produced by Ryan Murphy, the devilish mastermind of “Nip/Tuck,” “Glee” has skyrocketed to success. The show’s popularity can be seen in its magazine covers, iTunes sales and sold out nationwide concert tour. 
While some criticize the lack of a capella singing, the show’s success is undeniable. And so is the power of song. The plight of the misfit glee club and the teachers who love — and love to hate them — charts every emotion ranging from utter happiness to deep pain. While “Glee” is listed as a come­dy at award shows — and even won a Golden Globe this year — there is no doubt it is full of dramatic storylines that resonate with viewers. 

The ninth episode of last season, titled “Wheels,” was beautifully mov­ing as it charted the difficulties Artie (Kevin McHale) faces while wheelchair bound, as well as Sue’s soft side towards her mentally handicapped sis­ter. Paired with just the right song — “Proud Mary” — the message of acceptance becomes even stronger. 
Another noteworthy performance occurred in episode 20, “Theatricality,” when Burt Hummel (Emmy-nominated Mike O’Malley) stands up for his openly gay son Kurt (Chris Colfer) when fellow glee clubber Finn (Cory Monteith) continuously uses a derogatory term. 
“Glee” tackles many intense issues, but a great deal of the show is a comic rollercoaster. The humor is of a campy, oddball style that might not always mesh with a mainstream audience. 
But if you can take the ridiculous plotlines with a grain of salt, you can enjoy the heart of “Glee” — its charac­ters and their love for the performance arts. What other show could combine such intense issues with humor, song and dance and make it work? Somehow the formula Murphy created does just that. 
Lea Michele is a standout star as stardom-obsessed Rachel Berry, but every young actor brings something unique to the stage. From Amber Riley’s powerhouse voice to Harry Shum Jr.’s out-of-this-world dance moves as Mike Chang, there is no stop­ping these kids. And of course nothing would be possible without Spanish teacher and glee club coach Will Schuester (Matthew Morrison). 
Last season, “Glee” had some incred­ible guest stars from the world of Broadway. Kristin Chenoweth and Idina Menzel, both notable for origi­nating the lead roles in “Wicked,” had recurring and integral roles. And Neil Patrick Harris even won an Emmy for Best Guest Performance for his spot as Bryan Ryan, Mr. Schuester’s high school nemesis. 
SPOILER ALERT: This season expects more stars as John Stamos (“Full House”) joins the cast as a dentist wooing guidance counselor Emma (Jayma Mays). Have mercy! Uncle Jesse is stopping by to get in on the “Glee” fun. Oscar-winning Javier Bardem is in talks to appear too. And in breaking news, another Oscar-win­ner, Gwyneth Paltrow, is rumored to appear as well as a love interest for Mr. Schuester for two episodes in November. 
And of course there’s Britney. Britney Spears will guest star as her­self in the season’s second episode, a one-hour Britney extravaganza. After the success of last season’s all-Madonna and all-Lady Gaga episodes, look for future episodes centering on a single singer or band. 
There will of course be many more romantic entanglements this season. Will Kurt get a boyfriend? What are the ramifications of Quinn (Dianna Agron) and Puck (Mark Salling) giving up their baby? Will Finn and Rachel be a real couple after his “I love you?” And what will Emma do now that Will has promised he is not giving up on them? 
And of course there is Sue. Just because she voted for New Directions to win regionals and convinced Principal Figgins (Iqbal Theba) to allow the glee club to continue singing does not mean she has turned nice. Expect more stinging comments from Sue about Schuester’s hair and diaboli­cal plots to ruin the glee club. In other words, expect to keep learning how “Sue C’s it.” 
If you have never tuned in to Glee, try giving it a chance this time around 
— if not for the powerful storylines, brilliant song and dance numbers and overall fabulousness, then for Lynch’s ridiculously great one-liners. 
Take a slushie to the face at 8 p.m. tonight on FOX. 
Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrar1@nd.edu 

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
page 12 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 21 2010 

CLUB SPORTS 

Montee, Lugo compete for Irish in bike race 
Special to The Observer 
Murphy Kate Montee and Jose Lugo represented Notre Dame at the Purdue Cross-Country Mountain Bike race Sunday. Montee placed first in the Women’s A category. After a rough start, she pulled ahead and won in an exciting sprint finish. Jose entered the singlet rack in the front of the Men’s C pack, but flatted halfway through the lap and walked it in. 
Women’s Rugby 
This weekend, the Notre Dame Women’s Rugby Club defended their home turf for the first time in club history with a 42 -17 win over Northern Illinois University. The Irish wasted little time putting points on the score­board with a quick try by Ashley Okonta. The women of Northern Illinois University responded with a try and pulled ahead 7-5. The Irish scored another try to regain the lead, which they main­tained for the remainder of the match. Despite a few penalties, the Irish showed vast improvements and domi­nated the majority of the game. 

Men ’s Water Polo 
The Notre Dame men’s water polo team beat Michigan State’s B team, but fell to Michigan State’s A team, Grand Valley State and Purdue at the Michigan State Invitational this weekend. 
The Irish fell to host team and eventual champion Michigan State 16 -8. The Irish started out strong against the Spartans, one of the nation’s top teams. With about a minute left in the half, however, with the Spartans leading 6-4, the Irish defense allowed a slew of goals, and the Spartans took commanding lead of the game. Captains Dan Geisman and Matt Fordonski, along with sophomore Chris Jennis, notched goals for the Irish. Notre Dame lost its second contest of the day 10 -8 to Grand Valley State. The game was delayed because of rain for several hours, and when it finally started, the Irish start­ed out ice cold. Going down several goals in the first quar­ter, Notre Dame was unable to regain the lead. The Irish played a hard and physical game, but the Lakers ulti­mately emerged victorious. Sophomores Jon Hancher and Chris Jennis, along with grad­uate students Craig Bentzen and Sebastian Testero scored for the Irish. The Irish finally got in the win column against the Michigan State B team Saturday. The Irish appeared to start out much looser this game, and quickly jumped to a 3-0 lead. Goaltenders Tate Kernell and Geno Freeman were able to hold the Spartan shooters at bay, and the Irish defense held them to only one goal in the first half. During the sec­
ond half, however, cracks began to show, and the Irish gave up several goals on their way to a 10 -5 victory. Freshman Jack Turek and Peter Wasik had strong games, and Fordonski again led the way in scoring, with Testero, Hancher, and Geisman also scoring goals. In their final game of the tournament, the Irish fell Purdue 6-4. The Irish again came out cold, and found themselves in a 4-1 hole with­in the first ten minutes of the game. But the Notre Dame defense buckled down, and only allowed two more goals for the rest of the game, with none allowed in the second half. However, the Irish failed to create quality chances. Hancher scored two goals, and Jack Turek and Dan Geisman each added one. 
The team will be in action next in conference qualifiers the first weekend of October. 
Sailing 

Notre Dame’s sailing club competed in three regattas this weekend, with mixed results. At the Detroit Yacht Club’s Sloops Regatta, the Irish finished fourth among six entrants. In the JV Regata at Denison University, fresh­men Phil Hootsmans, skipper, and Lucy Smith, crew, placed second in the B Division. At the Davis Club at Iowa, the Irish finished seventh in a field of eight schools. Over twenty club members partici­pated in the three events. 


NCAA FOOTBALL 

Panthers’ QB Clausen to get starting nod on Sunday 
against Cincinnati. take over the NFL’s 28th-rated preseason. overthrown ball that likely also 
Associated Press 

“I’ve dreamt it for my whole offense as Carolina seeks to It’s nothing like the end of last would’ve gone for a score. 
CHARLOTTE,N.C. — A day life, to be a starting quarterback avoid a second straight 0-3 season, when he threw eight “There were some plays out before his 23rd birthday, Jimmy in the National Football start. touchdown passes and one there that we left, no doubt,” Clausen received a job promo-League,” said Clausen, who “We’ve just not been getting it interception. The undrafted, Fox said. “We’ve got to be able tion he seemed destined for went unbeaten in high school done,” said Fox, facing his own fourth-year QB from Oregon to make those in game situa­since before he entered high and was one of the nation’s top uncertainty in the final year of State entered this year 6-2 as a tions. Talking to the team today, school: NFL starting quarter-college recruits before playing in his contract. “Jimmy is a guy we starter. we’ve got to spark our offense, back. the Notre Dame spotlight. “It’s think highly of. I thought he When asked what’s gone in particular the passing game. 
In a rapid ascension made real exciting, but at same time made the most of his opportuni-wrong, Moore shook his head So we’re going to start Jimmy possible by Matt Moore‘s six it’s a job. You’ve got to go pre-ties Sunday. We’ll see how it and replied, “I wish I knew.” He Clausen this week. ... We’ll let turnovers and Carolina’s 0-2 pare.” goes this week.” rejected the argument his demo-Matt sit back and watch.” start, Panthers coach John Fox Clausen, whose stunning fall Clausen’s promotion was tion was inevitable when Clausen is 7 of 15 for 59 yards announced on Monday the sec-to 48th overall amid concerns accelerated by Moore’s dismal Clausen fell to the Panthers in and one interception in two brief ond-round pick from Notre about his attitude was one of the start to the season, a steep fall the draft. stints this season. Clausen said Dame will start Sunday’s game top stories of April’s draft, will from his strong 4-1 finish as a “I don’t think my thoughts he was “surprised” when Fox 
starter last season that helped were headed in that direction at told him Monday morning he pave the way for seven-year all,” Moore said. “I was confi-was taking over. starter Jake Delhomme‘s release dent, I still am. I know I can “It’s exciting,” Clausen said, in March. play. Unfortunately, the last two “but at the same time it’s time to 
“I’m not happy with it. I showings haven’t been great. get to work now.” understand, I accept it. But it’s This is the option we have and Clausen was greeted with definitely not what you want to they went with it.” cheers when he replaced Moore hear as a player,” Moore said. John Fox made the only choice early in the fourth quarter “I’ll be behind Jimmy as the he could have Monday, naming Sunday. He quickly matched weeks go on.” Jimmy Clausen his starting Moore in completed passes on 
Moore threw three end zone quarterback. Don’t expect his first drive, but it ended with interceptions and lost a fumble Carolina’s offense to get magi-running back Jonathan Stewart before leaving with a concussion cally better, though, ESPN.com’s being stopped short on fourth-in a Week 1 loss to the New York Pat Yasinskas writes. Blog and-goal from the 1. Clausen Giants. After being cleared to Fox, who stubbornly stuck was intercepted by Aqib Talib return Sunday, Moore threw an with Delhomme last season later in the game on a deflected interception and lost another despite his 18 interceptions until pass. fumble before getting yanked he was sidelined with a broken Clausen, groomed for this early in the fourth quarter of the finger, had a quick trigger this since he was setting high school 20-7 loss to Tampa Bay. time. records, is now charged with 
Moore has led Carolina on Moore completed just 6 of 16 jump-starting a stagnant offense only two touchdown drives, passes for 125 yards and a on a winless team with no expe­completed just 41 percent of his touchdown against the rienced receiver after Steve passes and has a passer rating Buccaneers. It included over-Smith. of 41.8. It comes after the throwing rookie David Gettis for “Somehow or another we have Panthers became the first team what would’ve been a touch-to gain some confidence in the in at least 14 years to not score down. Tight end Dante Rosario passing game,” Fox said. “We’ll an offensive touchdown in the couldn’t hang on to a slightly see if this works.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Better World Books, Mishawaka, IN, Northshore Condo, 1428 Marigold “I put all my genius into my life; I put is looking for an enthusiastic college Way near ND, 1 bdr, 1 bath, LR, DR only my talent into my works.”
WANTED student with excellent interpersonal, & kitchen w/ appliances. FOR RENT PERSONAL - Oscar Wilde communication skills, organizational ——————————————— and multi-tasking skills and a strong 1 car garage. $69,000. Call Doris at Spacious Upper-Level Apartment 
FOOSBALL players wanted. work ethic to join our team as a PT If Near Airport, on Busline 1 Bdr. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't I thrive on negativity. (20 hrs/wk) Outbound Telesales $550, All Util Included Call Mike go it alone. Notre Dame has many High level of play, best table in area. Rep. This position requires heavy If you or someone you care 574-250-0191 resources in place to assist you. If In the seventh grade, my math phone usage and consistently uti-abouthas been sexually assaulted, ——————————————— you or someone you love needs teacher told me I was flunking. Approx 10 minutes from ND. lizes Salesforce.com (CRM tool) to we can help. LakesideCozy furnished 3 bedroom confidential support or assistance, manage the majority of the job func-cottage 30 minutes from South please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 You know what? Call D at 257-4441 tions. Pay is $10/ hr. For more information, Bend. Tranquil beach community. or Ann Firth at 1-2685. or 339-2838. Please send your resume to One bath, fireplace, washer / dryer, For more information, visit ND's The next day I scored six goals for 
hr@betterworldbooks.com for con-visit Notre Dame's website: full kitchen. Security deposit/ refer-website at: http://pregnancysup-my hockey team. So there you go. Leave message if no answer sideration! http://csap.nd.edu. ences requested.708-205-454 port@nd.edu. - Michael Scott ——————————————— ———————————————-——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Tuesday, September 21, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
Fisher 
continued from page 17 
Sorin, while Zahm will look to fine tune their offense during a bye week. 
O’Neill 6, Keough 0 
O’Neill executed a combination of ball control and strong defense to near perfection in its win over Keough on Sunday 
The Angry Mob capitalized off of a blocked first quarter punt for the game’s only score and held Keough’s offense without a first down. 
The blocked punt occurred fol­lowing the Kangaroos’ (0-1) first possession in the first quarter. The punter lined up only five yards behind center instead of the usual eight, and, consequently, O’Neill (1-0) junior nose tackle Mark Welsh easily blocked and recov­ered the ball. 
“It was a simple miscommunica­tion on my part,” Keough senior captain Kevin Laughlin said. “We were trying to give them a look at a fake punt formation.” 
O’Neill’s offense quickly took advantage of field position inside the red zone as freshman fullback Eric Reed plowed 15 yards though the middle of the defense for a touchdown. 
After this score, O’Neill main­tained a conservative offensive approach, handing the ball to its running backs and fullback and converting key fourth downs. 
On one such fourth-and-short play late in the fourth quarter, instead of the usual run, Mob jun­ior quarterback JP McCabe com­pleted a deep 30 yard pass that 


SMC VOLLEYBALL 


put them inside the Keough 20 and crushed any Kangaroo hopes for a comeback. 
“It was definitely a gutsy but perfectly-timed call by [offensive coordinator Bobby Powers],” O’Neill junior captain Guy Schwartz said. “Keough was com­pletely sold on the run.” 
O’Neill’s defense stifled Keough’s offense, and the Kangaroos failed to convert a first down. Laughlin attributed the Kangaroos’ offen­sive woes to a lack of cohesiveness on the offensive line, something Keough will look to improve upon in practice. 
Next Sunday, Keough will look to earn its first win against Keenan, while O’Neill will battle Dillon. 
Contact Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu, Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu, David Kenney at dkenney1@nd.edu, Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu, Victoria Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu and Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu 
Weasels 
continued from page 16 

attack,” Bigi said. “We have some great coaching and we also have a lot of weapons out there to drive the field with.” 
One of those weapons was senior tight end Mary Forr, who caught three touchdowns on 76 receiving yards. 
“Most teams know of our other two receivers so it was nice to take some of the stress off Simone [Bigi],” Forr said. “Everything is really spread out in our offense so we definitely have a lot of options.” 
The turning point in the game came with 12 seconds left in the first half with the Purple Weasels leading 13-7 when Bigi connected with sophomore receiver Alice Yerokun for a 63­yard touchdown pass on third down. Later in the second half, the Shamrocks’ defense gave up another deep pass on third down when Bigi hit Forr on a slant route for a 30-yard touch­down. 
“We caught some bad breaks in giving up those big plays on defense,” McGlinn coach Joseph de Groot said. “But I’m proud of the way we fought and never gave in throughout the game.” 
McGlinn will look to rise above .500 next week against Welsh Family while Pasquerilla West will take on Walsh with hopes of extending its two-game winning streak. 
Cavanaugh 6, Farley 0 

A long touchdown pass and several key maneuvers on the defensive side made the differ-
including a number of goal-line sstands, the turning point for the 
Conference play begins for team 
Chaos (2-0) came two minutes 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary’s golf team finished sixth out of 10 overall in the O’Brien National Invitational held at Notre Dame’s Warren Golf Course Sunday and Monday. 
The No. 1 Methodist College won the tournament as they fin­ished the two-day event with a combined score 633. Wisconsin-Eau Claire (641) finished sec­ond, followed by Allegheny (643), DePauw (646) and Gustavus Adolphus (652). 
Saint Mary’s concluded the tournament with a 657-team score. 

“We have a few things that we need to work on,” Belles coach Mark Hamilton said. “We will be able to take a lot of positives from it though.” 
Methodist’s Paige Caldwell captured the individual medal­ist honors, shooting 76 and 77 over the two days. The best score of the tournament came from Allegheny’s Lauren Hilger as she tied the tournament’s lowest score record of 71 Monday. 
The Belles were led by senior Mary Kate Boyce, who shot a 76 and 80 for a total of 156 over the two days. This score was good enough for Boyce to finish in second place overall and ence Sunday in Cavanaugh’s win over Farley. 
After withstanding some early threats from the Finest (1-1), 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
As the non-conference por­tion of their schedule is behind them, the Belles turn full atten­tion to conference play, begin­ning tonight against rival Kalamazoo College. 
The Belles head into the con­test with a 1-2 MIAA record. 
The Belles and Hornets split their two matchups last season, with the home team taking each contest. Both matches were close, as expected based on the competitiveness of this series. 
In last year’s victory over the Hornets, the Belles made a comeback after falling behind early to eventually defeat their rival. Sophomore Stephanie Bodien was nearly unstop­pable. She picked up seven kills in nine attempts for Saint Mary’s. Junior leader Danie Brink had 41 assists in the match to lead the Belles. 

Beginning with this match, the Belles will play three of their next five matches at home in an important stretch that will determine what teams will be contenders in the MIAA tournament. 
Saint Mary’s went 1-2 over the weekend and has lost four of its last five games. They defeated Franklin (3-1) Saturday before losing to Purdue North Central (3-0) and Millikin Blue (3-0). 
After their match against Kalamazoo College, the Belles will travel to Alma Friday before coming home to face Adrian Saturday. They have a little over a month before the MIAA Championships begin. 
The teams will play Tuesday at 7 p.m. at Saint Mary’s. Both teams need a win as they move forward in conference play and look to gain high seeds at the MIAA Tournament. 

Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
before halftime. 

Cavanaugh junior quarter­back Rebecca Cink received the snap and drifted to the right side of the field, completing a pass to her receiver deep in the right corner of the end zone. 
“We’ve been trying to work on converting our plays and scoring touchdowns,” Cink said. “We have a lot of good looks but we need to work on converting.” 
While they may be focused on improving their offense, the Chaos defense impressed Sunday. A number of sacks, pass deflections, and two timely interceptions left Farley score­less. 
With little time left in the sec­ond half, Farley was looking to tie the game after getting a first down when Cavanaugh was 
flagged for unnecessary rough­ness. The Chaos then came up 
SMC GOLF 

with two straight pass deflec­tions, and senior Mo Mathias came up with a crucial intercep­tion to seal the victory. 
Belles hope for improvement 
“The defense played pretty 
solid all-around. We have a pret­ty aggressive defense,” Mathias 
make the All-Tournament Team. 
said. “We pull flags, that’s why we’re out there and that’s what we did.” 
Senior Mary Kate Howard came up with another intercep­tion for Cavanaugh, and was pleased with how the team played on both sides of the ball. 
“We’re confident in our­selves,” Howard said. “We make the big plays when needed.” 
Cavanaugh will look to contin­ue their winning ways next Sunday against Lyons while Farley will take on their neigh­bors from Breen-Phillips. 
Lyons 25, Breen-Phillips 0 

For two long years, Lyons failed to even reach the end zone. 
The Lions more than made up for that drought Sunday in a 25­0 romp over Breen-Phillips. 
The dominating victory put Lyons in the win column for the first time in two seasons. 
“It’s exciting to come out on top for a change,” Lyons senior running back Neva Lundy said. “We haven’t scored a touch­down since my sophomore year so it’s really nice.” 
Lundy scored the team’s first touchdown as she ran the ball in on a fourth-down five-yard sweep. 
The Babes (0-2) struggled to get their offense going through­out the whole game. Breen-Phillips quarterback Siena Combs threw an interception to the Lions (1-1) junior linebacker Kat Rodriguez who returned the ball ten yards to the Babes’ ten-yard line. Lundy followed up with her touchdown run to punctuate the drive. 
Breen-Phillips regained con­trol of the ball, and tried to use long counts to draw the Lions offside, but the strategy back­fired as Lyons sophomore line­backer Nicole Borner intercept­ed Combs and returned the ball 60 yards for a touchdown to end the first half. 
“I read the quarterback and stepped in front of the receiver,” Borner said. “There was a lot of room after I caught the ball so I just ran in.” 
Breen-Phillips continued to struggle offensively in the sec­ond half. 
Despite the loss, the Babes hope that the game experience gained in the first two contests of the season will benefit their young team. 
“We’re very young and inex­perienced,” Breen-Phillips sen­ior captain Kate McNelis said. “All we need is more experience and we’ll be all set.” 
Lyons’ next opponent is Cavanaugh while Breen-Phillips tries to get their first win against Farley next Sunday. 

Contact Kristen Lasak at klasak@nd.edu, Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu, Sarah Crippin at scrippin@nd.edu, Andrew Gastelum at agastell@nd.edu, Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu and Ian Garrahy at igarrahy@nd.edu 

“She was very solid as usual,” said Hamilton. “She got a little more out of her game.” 
Freshman Marin Beagley and Paige Pollak finished in 11th and 27th place respectively. Each golfer provided the consis­tency that has been evident among the Belles all season. 
The Belles will continue with a tough stretch against the top teams as they play in the Fall Preview next weekend at the Mission Inn Resort in Hower-in­the-Hills, Florida. 

Contact Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 
Joyce 
continued from page 20 

team’s level of confidence as 
they head into tonight’s 
match against the Spartans. 
Manchester (1-6) has had its fair share of struggles this weekend as well, and should provide the Belles with one of their less com­petitive opponents this sea­son. 
Joyce’s key to success will be finishing their chances on goal, something the team struggled with this past weekend, 
“We’ll want to make the most of our chances against Manchester,” Joyce said. “We’ll do some work with our finishing today at prac­tice so we can capitalize on our opportunities”. 
The Belles play Tuesday at 
4:30 p.m. at Manchester. 


Contact Robert Graham at rgraham@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 21, 2010 
MLB 

Torre returns to New York for Steinbrenner 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Joe Torre walked into new Yankee Stadium for the first time, signed the club­house wall alongside other pin­striped greats and ended his estrangement from Brian Cashman with an embrace. 
In death, George Steinbrenner had brought them back together. 
Torre had not been to the Yankees’ home since his bitter departure as manager after the 2007 season, the next-to-last sea­son of old Yankee Stadium. After 12 seasons and four World Series titles, he walked away after he was offered only a one-year con­tract. 
“Yeah, I was hurt,” he said at a news conference Monday before the unveiling of Steinbrenner’s monument. “And yet if you try to be rational about it, I think you had two parties not knowing how to say goodbye. And that’s what it turned out to be — the Yankees feeling I’d been here this long, didn’t want me to manage, and how do you approach that?” 
He announced Friday he would retire from the Los Angeles Dodgers after three seasons as their manager, and then received an invitation from Yankees chief operating office Lonn Trost to attend the ceremony. With the Dodgers off, Torre accepted and came to New York with former Yankees captain Don Mattingly, who will succeed him as the Los Angeles manager. 

Torre said he was stressed dur­ing his final three years as Yankees manager. After leading the team to World Series titles in 1996 and from 1998-00, his final seven seasons were unsuccessful. 
Now his anger at the Yankees is almost gone. 
“It gradually, you know, abated pretty much,” he said, wearing his 1996 World Series ring. “It’s much different than then. I’m not saying I would want to change anything, because you tell people how you feel at the time you feel it.” 
He had not spoken with Cashman since January 2009, just before the publication of a book that the general manager felt spilled clubhouse secrets. 
After Cashman walked into the interview room and embraced Torre, the two retreated to the clubhouse for a discussion. 
“I think we’ve agreed to just put it behind us,” Cashman said. “We had a good constructive meeting. We’ve taken the steps to start to repair whatever got broke.” 
Cashman said the chilly dis­tance between the two contrasted with their warm working rela­tionship during Torre’s dozen sea­sons, of which Cashman was gen­eral manager for the final decade. 
“It’s just not healthy. It’s time to just turn the page and move on,” Cashman said. “Whatever hap­pened on that side is a small sam­ple compared to the huge sample of all the good stuff that took place.” 
Mattingly said he felt no bitter­ness when the Yankees bypassed him to hire Joe Girardi as Torre’s successor. Mattingly said he left as New York’s bench coach because he felt Girardi’s tenure would have been questioned dur­ing each small losing streak had he stayed. 
“I didn’t think it was fair to him,” Mattingly said. “I love com­ing back to New York.” 
Torre wouldn’t rule out taking another managing job — if the Mets fire Jerry Manuel, Torre would be linked to the job he held from 1977-81. 
“I really don’t anticipate I’m going to manage,” he said. 
But Torre won’t rule it out. 


“When the season’s over, if the phone rings, and if it rings a number of times, I’m just curious what’s out there,” he said. “If somebody calls me and it excites me, fine. And, you know, you cer­tainly have to listen to it. But I’m curious if there’s anything, because I want to stay connected with baseball in some way.” 
NFL 

Broncos may have to rely on rookies after multiple injuries 
Yet, Jones said the rookies are can kind of play in a more com-we’re playing, you’ve got to pre-play, listening to them, asking 
Associated Press 

ready for the challenge. fort mode.” pare like hey, you don’t want to them questions. There’s just so 
ENGLEWOOD, Colo. — Nine-“We’ve got some talented young Vaughn was more low-key let nobody down.” much they have to offer that you time Pro Bowl cornerback Champ guys,” Jones said. “But more about the possibility of increased He said having Bailey, want to find out,” Vaughn said. Bailey said over the summer that importantly, I think we’ve got playing time this week. Goodman and veteran safeties “We have a lot of veterans, so it what he liked most about some very diligent vets on this “I’ll just try to stick besides Renaldo Hill and Brian Dawkins will be a real great comfort level.” Denver’s seasoned secondary team and if that happens, we’ll do these veterans and prepare like to help him eases his mind. Even if one or both starting cor­wasn’t so much its experience but everything in our power to get they would as much as I can,” “It really does help, just being nerbacks are on the sideline in its youthful additions. them ready.” Vaughn said. “Regardless of who around them, watching them street clothes. 
New nickel back Nate Jones, a Cox got a lot of work with the seven-year veteran who came starters during camp and said over from Miami, saw it right that’s helped rid him of any away. nerves as he faces the possibility 
“Depth is always your friend in of getting extended playing time the NFL,” he said. or even his first NFL start. 
That depth could get tested in a “Regardless if they’re playing or big way Sunday: The Broncos not, I think I’m going to fit in big-might have to face Peyton time. I’m prepared for it,” Cox Manning and the Indianapolis said. Colts with a trio of rookie corner-Cox, who had treatment backs. Monday on a minor right leg 
Bailey left the stadium on injury, sure isn’t intimidated by crutches Sunday night after train-the possibility of getting picked on ers treated his right foot late in by Manning. the fourth quarter of Denver’s 31-“I mean, it’s a big challenge but 14 win over Seattle. Coach Josh I wouldn’t really look at it too McDaniels said Bailey didn’t have much differently than any other any broken bones but wasn’t sure challenge,” he said. “Everybody’s if he or cornerback Andre in the NFL, everybody’s a profes-Goodman (thigh) would be able to sional.” play Sunday. Cox has an icy confidence about 
Goodman walked with a slight him that belies his eight quarters limp but didn’t stop to talk on his of NFL experience, so it’s not sur­way to the trainer’s room prising to see him shrug off the Monday, and Bailey never showed notion that Manning will provide up in the locker room during the a test the likes of which he’s 45-minute access period. never seen. 
“It would be an important game “I don’t look at nobody differ-obviously to have those guys ently,” Cox insisted. “I kind of look available for,” McDaniels said. at everybody on the same level “And they’ll do everything they until they prove different. I don’t can to do make sure they’re go by what people say and what’s ready for Sunday. And that’s real-in the newspapers and all that. I ly all we can tell right now. I don’t just go out and ball. Help out my know if they’re going to be or teammates the best way I can is not.” kind of what I look forward to.” 
If the answer’s no, the Broncos Cox had his first NFL intercep­would line up with rookie corner-tion in the waning minutes backs Perrish Cox, a fifth-round Sunday but that was quickly fol-draft pick from Oklahoma State, lowed by his first personal foul and Cassius Vaughn, who went when he celebrated with a throat undrafted out of Mississippi. slash, a gesture that’s been Syd’Quan Thompson, a fifth-banned by the league for a rounder from Cal, would likely be decade. activated for the first time this “It was a reaction. It’s my first season. interception,” he said. “It felt 
“Peyton’s one of the best to play good, actually. The real season. the position. We all know that,” Getting an interception the sec-Jones said. “He presents a chal-ond game of the season, that’s lenge no matter who you have out kind of a great feeling. It kind of there.” takes a lot off your back and you 

Tuesday, September 21, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Hoosiers looking to improve beyond record 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Bill Lynch looks at Indiana’s unbeaten record and understands it’s been far from perfect. 
The Hoosiers, he insists, still need to be more efficient in third-down situations on 
offense and defense. He wants them to score more touchdowns in the red zone and close out games better than they did at Western Kentucky. 
“We must continue to get better,” Lynch said Monday. “We have to continue to run the football better. I think that is something that is vital and there are times in games when you have to run the ball when they know you are going to run the ball, and that’s when you have to be good at it.” 
So far, so good. 
Indiana has averaged 4.5 yards per carry, a significant improvement over last sea­son’s average of 3.8 yards. And after posting a 39 per­cent third-down conversion rate in 2009, the Hoosiers have bumped that average up to 54.5 percent. 

Quarterback Ben Chappell has been brilliant, too, com­pleting nearly 74 percent of his passes, averaging 274.0 yards per game with five TDs and no interceptions and is coming off the best game of his career. On Saturday, Chappell was 32-of-42 for 366 yards with three TD passes and one rushing TD. He had career-highs for completions and yardage and tied the school record with his fourth career 300-yard game. 
On Monday, Chappell was rewarded with his second career Big Ten offensive play­er of the week award. 
“It’s a great honor,” he said. “We’re going week-by-week, so I guess that means I had a good week and I will try to do it again next week.” 
But Lynch also realizes sta­tistics can be deceiving, espe­cially this early in the season. 
Indiana has racked up big numbers against Towson, a Football Championship Subdivision school, and Western Kentucky, which extended the nation’s longest losing streak to 23 games with Saturday’s loss. 
And things are about to get a whole lot tougher. 
Up next for Indiana is Mid-American Conference foe Akron, and then the Hoosiers host No. 21 Michigan, and Heisman Trophy candidate Denard Robinson, before vis­iting No. 2 Ohio State, and Heisman candidate Terrelle Pryor, in back-to-back weeks. 
That gives the Hoosiers basically one chance to fix Lynch’s lingering concerns before opening Big Ten play. 
“There are a lot of areas for improvement and our guys understand that in the way they go about their work,” Lynch said. “I’m confident we’ll have that kind of week as we get ready.” 
The good news is that, despite Lynch ’s concerns, Indiana is off to a seventh straight 2-0 start — just what they need if they intend to get their second bowl bid in four years. 
But what does Lynch really need to see? 
More consistency, more con­versions and the mentality it takes to close out drives and games with perfect precision. 
“I like what we’ re doing (running), but we’re not look­ing to put in new plays or new formations, we just have to execute better,” Lynch said. “We’re close. When you break down the tape, and that’s one 
of the advantage we have with all the technology now and the end zone look, we see how close we really are. But close doesn’t get it done. And close gets you a 1-yard gain when you should get a 6-yard gain. So that’s where we have to continue to improve and we’ll get there.” 

MLB 

Hamels’ pitching helps Phillies to victory over Braves 
Brandon Beachy (0-1) gave up are Roy Halladay and Roy Placido Polanco’s RBI play. 
Associated Press 

three runs — one earned — and Oswalt. grounder to shortstop drove in The Phillies answered in the 
PHILADELPHIA — Cole four hits in 4 1-3 innings in his Hamels did his job. The 2008 Victorino with the go-ahead bottom half. Howard led off Hamels had another outstand-major league debut. He was a World Series MVP is pitching run. with a double. Two outs later, ing outing, and the Philadelphia late fill-in for Jair Jurrjens, who better than he did when he led Chase Utley followed with a Carlos Ruiz lined a double to Phillies took advantage of an is still nursing a sore right knee. Philadelphia to its second single. He stole second and left to tie it at 1. The crowd error by Jason Heyward to beat The 24-year-old right-hander championship two years ago. advanced to third on catcher chanted “Choooch” as Ruiz the Atlanta Braves 3-1 on was at the Braves’ instructional Despite a slew of injuries this Brian McCann’s throwing error. jogged into second with another Monday night, increasing their league program in Florida season, the Phillies are primed Eric O’Flaherty entered and clutch hit. The catcher leads the lead in the NL East to four when he got the call to join the to win their fourth straight divi-walked Ryan Howard and team with a .299 batting aver-games. team. sion title and are trying to Jayson Werth to load the bases. age. Ruiz entered the season 
The two-time NL champion A crowd of 45,256 was the become the first NL team in 66 Raul Ibanez grounded out to with a .246 career average, but Phillies won their eighth 118th straight sellout at years to capture three consecu-shortstop to score Utley for a 3-he has a knack for coming straight game and improved to Citizens Bank Park. A fan wear-tive pennants. 1 lead. through in big games. Ruiz hit 42-15 since July 21, when they ing a red spandex costume and Shane Victorino led off The Braves went ahead 1-0 in .349 in the NLCS and World trailed the Braves by seven mask ran onto the field and Philadelphia’s fifth with a hard the second on McCann’s RBI Series over the last two years. games. briefly eluded security guards liner to right-center. He hustled double. Derrek Lee singled and Hamels has an 0.49 ERA in 
Hamels (12-10) allowed one during the seventh inning into third after the ball glanced scored on McCann’s shot off the his last five starts, and a career-run and six hits, striking out six before Braves left fielder Matt off Heyward’s glove. Heyward scoreboard in right. After Diaz low 2.93 ERA this season. in eight innings to win his fifth Diaz helped tackle him. made a long run and seemingly singled, Hamels pitched out of Hamels would have a better straight start — a career-best. The Phillies adjusted their had trouble with the wind or the jam. He struck out Alex record with some more run Brad Lidge finished for his 24th rotation so their three aces the curve of the ball, but it was Gonzalez and got Melky support. He allowed two earned save in 29 chances. would pitch this series. Next up ruled an error. Cabrera to ground into a double runs or less in five of his losses. 
NFL 

Clifton takes a break from starting position with sore knee 
Associated Press 
GREEN BAY, Wis. — Veteran Chad Clifton remains the Green Bay Packers’ starting left tack­le. 
That doesn’t mean he’ll start against the Chicago Bears next Monday night. 
Clifton was benched in favor of first-round rookie Bryan Bulaga during Sunday’s victory over the Buffalo Bills, and Packers coach Mike McCarthy said he made the move because Clifton “didn’t look healthy.” Continued knee sore­ness is putting Clifton’s avail­ability against the Bears in doubt. 
“He’s our starting left tack­le,” McCarthy said. “He’s bat­tling through a rough spot right now medically. We have Bryan Bulaga getting ready. I thought Bryan played well with his opportunity yesterday.” 

Facing a Monday night game, the Packers would have an extra day to get their rookie ready. 
“It helps you, one more day of preparation,” McCarthy said. “We’ll take advantage of that, and I’m sure Bryan will take a lot of the practice reps this week. We’ll make sure Bryan’s ready, and we’ll do what we need to do to get Chad ready.” 
Making his first career start against the Bears at Soldier Field could be a big deal for Bulaga, a native of Crystal Lake, Ill. — although any excitement might be tempered by the prospect of facing Julius Peppers. 
Bulaga went into the draft after his junior year at Iowa, and was taken No. 23 overall by the Packers. 
Packers quarterback Aaron Rodgers said Bulaga played well Sunday, other than a false start penalty in the fourth quarter. 
“Bulaga, from day one, he’s fit in personality-wise very well here and I like his work ethic and I have a lot of confidence when he’s in the game,” Rodgers said after Sunday’s game. “Other than the jump on a hard count, I think he did a nice job for us.” 
Although Bulaga is expected to become the Packers’ long­term left tackle, he was given a chance to compete with veter­an Daryn Colledge for the starting left guard job in train­ing camp. Colledge won the job in camp after Bulaga missed time with a right hip flexor injury. On Sunday, they lined up next to each other. 
“I know he was nervous, but at the same time he was extremely excited,” Colledge said Sunday. “He got out there and I thought he did a good job from what I could tell. He had one false start just like me so the left side kind of held down the penalties. I think he was excited to get out there and show what he’s got.” 
Colledge called the transition seamless, although the rest of the linemen did try to simplify the calls they make at the line of scrimmage. 
“When it’s me and Bulaga in there, I just want him to settle down so I’m going to tell him what we’re doing and we’re just going to roll,” Colledge said. “I thought he did a great job. He was physical in his plays and he blocked well.” 
As might be expected of an 11-year NFL veteran, Clifton has a history of knee issues and was receiving medical treatment Monday. 
Clifton, who had arthroscopic surgery on both knees and both shoulders before the 2009 season, had swelling in his right knee toward the end of training camp this year and sat out practice. 
McCarthy said the team will take the week to determine whether Clifton will start against the Bears, and Bulaga will likely get a significant number of snaps at left tackle in practice. 
“He’s played a lot of foot­ball,” McCarthy said of Clifton. “He’s had a number of surger­ies, both knees, shoulders, and it’s some wear-and-tear. We just feel that we need to treat him accordingly. They’re trying different things, and hopefully he’ll be ready for Chicago. There’s really nothing else to talk about.” 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, September 21, 2010 
Wildcats 
continued from page 20 
discourage them. 
“We are pretty confident about the chances for the rest of the sea­son,” sophomore defensive line­man Alyssa Casill said. “We know what we need to work on and this really motivated us so we will come out strong next week.” 
Ryan, greatly encouraged by the improvements this week, is look­ing with optimism toward the rest of the season. 
“We are confident from here on out,” Ryan coach Andy Ziccarelli said. “We’ve shown we can play at a high level and have bounced back.” 
Walsh will take on Welsh Family next Sunday, while Ryan has a bye. 
Lewis 7, Pasquerilla East 0 
In a game dominated by defense, one offensive play made the difference in Lewis’ victory over Pasquerilla East on Sunday afternoon at LaBar Fields. 
Late in the second half, with the game still scoreless, Lewis (1-1) sophomore quarterback Connaught Blood scored on a 16­yard quarterback scramble to put the Chicks up for good. Blood rolled out to the right, cut back off of a block from sophomore line­man Taylor Sticha, then knifed through the Pyro (0-1) defense on her way to the game’s only score. 
The first half was a defensive struggle with both offenses unable to move the ball consistently. The Pasquerilla East defense was able to get constant pressure on the shifty southpaw Blood, forcing a number of tough throws. 
In the second half, however, Lewis switched from two to three offensive linemen to slow down the Pyro pass rush. 

“That gave me a little bit more time to see the field,” Blood said. “It allowed me to run when I needed to and throw the short pass when I needed to.” 
The Chick defense stifled the Pyros’ pistol offense all day long, forcing two interceptions and stopping the run game in the backfield on nearly every play. 
Junior Margot DeBot stepped up with both interceptions, returning one deep into Pyro territory. DeBot also caught the one-point conversion pass from Blood and was instrumental on short pass plays from her left tackle position on offense. 
Stalwart Lewis senior captain and defensive lineman Sarah Ceponis also had multiple sacks on key third-down plays and was tough against anything up the middle, backed up by sophomore linebacker Mara Catlaw and soph­omore safety Katie Hennessy. 
While this was Pasquerilla East’s first game of the season, Lewis rebounded from their open­ing loss to defending champion Howard last week. 
“Last week, it was really close. We almost had it together, but it was our first game,” Blood said. “This week, Sarah [Ceponis] just got us really pumped up and we were just going to learn from last week.” 
Lewis will be off next week while Pasquerilla East looks to bounce back against Badin. 
Howard 26, Badin 0 

Howard continued its defense of its 2009 title with a convincing 26­0 win over Badin at LaBar Fields Sunday. 
The Ducks (2-0) played a solid game on both sides of the ball, scoring four touchdowns but also keeping the Bullfrogs (0-2) score­less all afternoon. 
Experience is a big key this sea­son for the Ducks, as they return many players from last season’s championship squad. 
Howard senior quarterback Kayla Bishop connected with sen­ior receiver Kaitlin Robinson in the end zone for the Ducks’ first touchdown of the game early in the first half. 
Later in the half, Bishop com­pleted a 15-yard touchdown pass to Jenny Gassner. Gassner, a jun­ior receiver/defender, credited the Ducks’ success to their defense. 
“We did a really good job of con­taining Badin’s quarterback,” Gassner said. “Our team played today’s game with a high level of intensity, and our defense shut Badin down.” 
The Bullfrogs gained some momentum on the second play after halftime, though, as senior defender Becky Sharon intercept­ed one of Bishop’s passes near the Ducks’ end zone. Badin had twen­ty yards to go for the touchdown, but the Bullfrogs’ offense failed to convert and did not score on the drive. 
Howard’s offense continued its success with another Bishop touchdown pass in the second half, this time to 6-foot-1 sopho­more receiver Laura Coletti. 
“We played really well as a team,” Bishop said. “Our defen­sive effort created many of our offensive opportunities. Everything seemed to click.” 
The Ducks’ domination contin­ued through the game’s final min­utes, when Robinson, playing defense, intercepted a pass from Badin junior quarterback Sylvia Banda. 
Robinson ran the interception 25 yards back to the end zone to score the final touchdown of the afternoon. 
Self-proclaimed “inspirational” Howard coach Fritz Schoenhut praised his team’s performance after the game. 
“We attacked Badin on defense, but still moved the ball well on offense,” Schoenhut said. “Though we played a pretty perfect game on both ends of the field, we’re eager to get back to practice and prepare for next week’s matchup.” 
The Ducks look to continue their winning season against Pangborn on Sunday, while Badin will face Pasquerilla East as both teams search for their first win. Pasquerilla West 31, McGlinn 14 

Last year’s runner-up Pasquerilla West raked in their second win with an explosive aeri­al attack in their win over McGlinn. 
The Purple Weasels were led by senior quarterback Simone Bigi, who threw for 205 yards and five touchdowns while running for another 52 yards. 
A week after displaying a decep­tive triple-option offense, the Purple Weasels (2-0) stuck to the passing game with four passes over 25 yards and picked apart the Shamrock (1-1) secondary that had shut out Ryan in their opening game. 
“We wanted to show that we are not one-dimensional in our 
see WEASELS/page 13 

Tuesday, September 21, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
The two-time defending champi-gain. A few plays later, Dugan on Ramblers (1-0) were looking to made a beautiful diving catch to 
Sorin 

continue their tradition and come tie the score at 6-6. The extra out big winners against the point gave Morrissey the 7-6 lead 
continued from page 20 

Highlanders (0-1), who finished that it held until the final whistle. quarterback Matt Abeling to soph-winless last season. For the rest of the game, omore wide receiver Zach That was not the case, though, Morrissey’s defense was relentless Siefring. Sorin blocked the extra thanks to a stifling Duncan with the defensive line and line-point attempt, though, and the defense. backer core notching multiple score stayed tied at 6-6. “We didn’t really have a counter sacks against Knott’s offensive 
Sorin began driving toward for the blitzes up the middle,” line. Manor sophomore captain another score, but the momentum Siegfried senior quarterback Matt Alex Oloriz especially credited jun-shifted when Abeling, in his first Meinert said. “We really weren’t ior Tom Nield with his play not game on defense, intercepted a prepared on offense.” only on the defensive line, but pro-Spinelli pass and returned it 52 Neither team could get anything tecting Conrad on the offensive yards to the Otters’ 13-yard line. going on offense until the second line as well. 
“We were low on numbers, so quarter, when Wandor’s long field “Nield was relentless on both everyone played both ways,” St. goal attempt went through the side of the ball today on every Edward’s junior captain and run-uprights, barely clearing the play,” Oloriz said. ning back Jay Mathes said. crossbar. Nield, along with freshman line­“[Abeling] had never played cor-“I was expecting to make it,” backer Tyler Plantz, freshman nerback before, and he was carry-Wandor said. “The line did a great linebacker Rayven Moore and ing the ball like a loaf of bread on job blocking, Matt Meinert had a sophomore defensive end Taylor that return.” great hold, and it’s why we do it in Stein led the defense in keeping 
Abeling’s return set up a 2-yard practice.” the pressure on Knott’s offense for touchdown pass to senior wide Duncan had two opportunities the Juggerknotts’ final offensive receiver Sean Reed, and a con-to tie the game or take the lead in drive. The Manor made a big verted extra point gave the the fourth quarter, sustaining defensive stop on fourth down to Gentlemen a 13-6 lead at the half. drives into Rambler territory. The regain possession with about a Abeling finished 18-of-24 with 143 Highlanders’ first chance ended minute left to play. With the win 
yards and two touchdown passes when Meinert, also a defensive secured, Conrad took a knee and ior wide receiver Pat Kelly in the rust, the Knights remain confi-
After a 61-yard zone-read keep-back for the Ramblers, broke up a ran out the clock to seal the victo­
fourth quarter. dent. 
4th-and-11 pass attempt. The sec-ry for Morrissey. 
er by Spinelli, the Otters found Rizzo credited much of his suc-“It’s nothing we can’t fix,” Dear 
themselves inside the red zone ond attempt was unsuccessful The Knott players were very dis-cess to his protection. said. and converted on a pretty fade after Siegfried senior safety Scott appointed with their loss, yet 
“I think our offensive line was The Knights look to rebound 
route to sophomore wide receiver Schinderle intercepted a pass with determined for the rest of the sea-the standout,” Rizzo said. against Keough next Sunday, son. 
Ryan Robinson. a minute to go. “Offensive line was a big problem while the Griffins head into a bye 
After their first extra point Siegfried only had 59 yards of “Our defense looked very good for us last year, and they did a week. 
attempt was blocked, the Otters total offense. Duncan had a slight today except for two plays,” Knott really good job today.” had more confidence in going for edge, with 64 offensive yards, but junior captain Dan Shaffer said. Even in a loss, the Keenan Fisher 6, Zahm 0 
two points and the win. was unable to put any points on “We know where we need to 
defense was impressive as they Compared to the three years 
“It’s like we always say, go big or the board. improve and we plan on not losing kept steady pressure on the that Fisher waited to win an inter-go home,” Otters senior wide Even though Siegfried ended the another game.” Griffins’ offense. The Knight hall football game through means 
receiver Bobby Sullivan said. game on top, the Ramblers were Morrissey was not only happy to defense was led by their senior co-other than a forfeit, the nearly 48 displeased in their effort. be victorious but was encouraged 
The Otters snapped the ball captains, linebacker Bart Dear minutes they had to wait to score directly to Browder in the wildcat, “We’re disappointed,” Meinert by the play of their young team. and defensive back Jamie Koepsel. against Zahm Sunday seemed like 
but his pass was intercepted. A said. “We expect to win bigger “Our freshmen had a huge Still, the Griffins were too much nothing. 
stop by Sorin’s defense allowed than that, but we’ll get right back impact on the tempo of the game,” for the Knights to handle. It was just barely enough to their offense one more chance at at it and try to improve.” Oloriz said. “There were too many third notch their first win, as senior 
the end zone, but a botched snap Duncan takes on Knott next The Manor will look to pick up down conversions by Stanford,” halfback Michael McMahon scur-Sunday. Siegfried gets a bye before their second win next week 
recovered by St. Edward’s fresh-Koepsel said. “But our run defense ried into the end zone as time 
man defensive lineman Patrick also battling Knott in two weeks. against Alumni while Knott will looked very good.” expired to give the Green Wave a Doyle sealed the game for the face Duncan next Sunday. The potential that several victory. Gentlemen. Morrissey 7, Knott 6 Stanford freshmen showed in the Zahm (0-1) and Fisher (1-0) had While excited by the win, From the crack of the first hit, to Stanford 13, Keenan 0 week’s opener was promising. remained deadlocked at 0-0 until 
Mathes emphasized that his team the final knee taken by Morrissey The Stanford Chapel retains its Besides Morsches, wide receiver the very end of the fourth quarter, freshman quarterback Nick name for one more year as 
should not get too excited. Connor Healy, offensive lineman with both defensive units making 
“We didn’t want to pass as much Conrad, Morrissey and Knott were Stanford shut out Keenan in the Ruben Carrion and offensive line-forward progress almost impossi­
as we did,” Mathes said. “We still neck and neck in a heated, dusty most recent installment of the man Pat Rauh all started and ble. 
have a lot to work on.” and hard-hitting Morrissey victory. rivalry game. 
made their presence felt. “Our defense was incredible,” 
St. Edward’s will play Carroll (0-Ultimately, it was the youth of The Griffins (1-0) utilized their The Griffins appreciate the Fisher senior coach Eric Prister 
0) next week, while Sorin will take the Manor (1-0) that carried the clear size advantage to overpower importance of their win. said. “[Zahm’s] entire line was on Fisher (0-0-1). day. the Knights (0-1). 
“We see these guys every day,” afraid of what was coming next. 
Knott (0-1) opened scoring with The defensive tone of the game Rizzo said. “You know, just walk-They went backwards most of the 
Siegfried 3, Duncan 0 a 38-yard field goal from fresh-was established on the opening ing to class, going to the dining time.” Siegfried beat Duncan in a tense man kicker David Pratt After drive, as Stanford freshman line-
hall. But it’s always nice to know Fisher’s offense put together a turnovers by both teams, Knott backer Michael Morsches’ inter-
defensive battle that left both that you beat them.” series of drives, but failed to finish 
teams with a bitter taste in their put up another field goal to take a ception halted Keenan’s first drive. The Knights struggled with pro-any of them off, something that mouths. 6-0 halftime lead. Stanford senior quarterback 
tecting junior quarterback Trevor the team will look to improve in On Morrissey’s second drive of Anthony Rizzo tossed an early 
The lone score came from Yerrick, who was forced out of the the coming weeks. Siegfried sophomore kicker the second half, Conrad connected touchdown and later capped off pocket almost incessantly by the “We had drives, but didn’t get a 
Stephen Wandor on a 45-yard with freshman wide receiver his strong showing by throwing a 
quick Stanford defense. Despite touchdown until the last second,” Patrick Dugan for a 60-yard touchdown pass on the run to jun-
field goal. their opening loss and apparent said Prister who is also an associ­ate sports editor at The Observer. 

The missed opportunities were all but forgotten when the ball was tossed to McMahon and he raced 50 yards to the end zone, aided by several nice blocks from his team­mates. 
Fisher had never before attempted the game-winning play, as the complex formation was drawn up in a time-out in the waning seconds. Fisher was origi­nally flagged for illegal formation with too many receivers down field, but, because the pass from junior quarterback Pat Hertenstein was completed behind the line of scrimmage, the play was allowed to stand. 
Although the Zahmbies were downcast after their heart-wrenching defeat, senior captain Mark Pomerenke did identify some positive developments. 
“Our defense was solid until the lapse at the end,” Pomerenke said. 
Zahm’s offensive situation remains frustrating, as the Zahmbies failed to score and only converted two first downs. 
“Our offense wasn’t polished and couldn’t execute,” Pomerenke said. “We couldn’t get a gain.” 
Fisher will look to continue its winning ways next week against 
see FISHER/page 13 

page 18 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 21, 2010 

Tuesday, September 21, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


JEFF KNUREK

SCOTT MITCHELL and MATT MOMONT 
THE MATING RITUAL 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Tuesday, September 21, 2010 page 20 
MEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Opening weekend kicks off 
St. Ed’s begins with narrow win against Sorin, Defense shows important for Siegfried; Duncan 
By JACK HEFFERON, SAM 
GANS, DAVID KENNEY, 
JOSEPH MONARDO, 
VICTORIA JACOBSEN and 
MATT UNGER 
Sports Writers 
Both St. Edward’s and Sorin entered their season opener wanting a successful beginning to the new campaign. After an excit­ing contest Sunday, only the Gentlemen (1-0) have gotten their season off to the start they hoped for. 
The Otters (0-1) started the game on offense and proceeded to march down the field behind the powerful backfield of junior full­back Matthew Pepe and senior halfback Mike Browder. Pepe found the end zone on a 20-yard dash, but Sorin failed to convert the extra point attempt. 
Facing an early deficit, the Gentlemen got the ball back and, lining up exclusively in the shot­gun, used the short and interme­diate passing game to move the ball down the field. Sorin eventu­ally finished off their scoring drive with a 9-yard pass from senior 
SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 

Sorin sophomore quarterback Ted Spinelli carries the ball in the interhall game against St. Ed’s see SORIN/page 17 Sunday afternoon. The Gentlemen won 13-12. 

SMC SOCCER 

Belles head out to face Spartans 
By ROBERT GRAHAM 
Sports Writer 

After ending its six game losing streak Friday, the Saint Mary’s College soccer team hopes to win two more as they travel to Manchester Tuesday to take on the Spartans before the regular season comes to a close. 
The goal for the Belles (1-7) is to generate as much momentum as possible before MIAA play begins Sept. 29 at Calvin. 
Belles coach Michael Joyce said sustaining the energy of its first win is paramount to the team’s success as they move along in their schedule. 
“Winning in general is a big boost to your confidence, team moral and enthusiasm,” Joyce said. “We’re excited to keep things moving in the right direction.” 
Joyce said he expects a marked difference in the 
see JOYCE/page 13 
MEN’S TENNIS 

SeniorAnderson begins season successfully 
Irish look for leadership, wins from veteran 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
For David Anderson, this year is all about finishing his Notre Dame career as strongly as he started it three years ago. 
The senior star is intent on leading the Irish to another NCAA Tournament berth and making a deep run once they get there. Anderson, a three-year starter, has certainly left a mark on the Notre Dame program, assistant coach Ryan Sachire said. 
“[Anderson] is a consistent force for us on and off the court,” Sachire said. “He is a good kid who gets good grades and is a real solid guy for a program that is focused on both academics and athletics.” 
Over the weekend, Anderson picked up some important vic­tories for his team against quality opponents. 
“He beat two top-of-the-line Iowa and Western Michigan players,” Sachire said. “Those are two solid teams and any­time you play another team’s No. 1 player, you know he is a real good player.” 
Anderson is a crucial leader for a team with a strong mix of veteran presence and talented underclassmen learning the ins and outs of college tennis. 

“He is a hard worker and is very conscientious of his deci­sions,” Sachire said. “He is not the most outspoken guy, but he is a leader by example. The young players are able to learn from his example and can see that he is a stabilizing force for us.” 
Anderson has taken multiple trips to the NCAA Tournament during his time with the Irish. Last season, he and teammate Daniel Stahl picked up a much-needed win at the dou­bles position as Notre Dame looked to advance past Wisconsin. Although the Badgers eliminated the Irish, Anderson once again proved why he plays such an impor­tant role for the Irish. That experience should only help Anderson this year as he looks to make a splash as a singles player. 
“He can have a big year,” Sachire said. “He just needs to keep working and continue to be aggressive.” 
With another strong season and a prospective appearance at this year’s NCAA Tournament, Anderson can leave a lasting mark on the Irish program. 

Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 

WOMEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Wildcats come out on top 

By KRISTEN LASAK, 
MATTHEW DeFRANKS, 

SARAH CRIPPIN, ANDREW 
GASTELUM, LAURA 
COLETTI and IAN 
GARRAHY 
Sports Writers 

After a disappointing shutout loss to McGlinn in its opening game, Ryan fired back on Sunday to defeat Walsh. 
The Wildcat offense, led by sophomore quarterback Maya Pillai, scored two unanswered touchdowns in the second half to seal the victory. 
The Wild Women (0-1), who reached the semifinals last year, held a slight lead over Ryan (1-1) at the end of the first half, but suffered a critical loss when sen­ior linebacker Carolyn Leary had to leave the game due to an injury. Ryan immediately capital­ized on the injury coming out in the second half on a touchdown run from Pillai. 
“We came out of halftime and ran a great play called ‘Circus,’ which went for a touchdown,” Pillai said. “I think that gave us the confidence to dominate the rest of the game.” 
After Pillai’s touchdown run, Ryan never looked back. Walsh, under the leadership of senior quarterback Amy Langnecker, seemed poised for a comeback, but failed to match Ryan’s go-ahead score. After the game, the Wild Women, a perennial playoff contender, refused to let the loss 
see WILDCATS/page 16 







