the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Donnelly wins seat over Walorski 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
U.S. Rep. Joe Donnelly, a Democrat, retained his seat in Indiana’s 2nd Congressional District Tuesday, narrowly defeating Republican Jackie Walorski in one of the country’s key congressional races. 
Donnelly won 48.2 percent of the vote, while Walorski had 
46.8 percent. 
In a statement released to the South Bend Tribune, Donnelly thanked Northern Indiana vot­ers for their support and reiter­ated his focus on improving the job market in his district. 
“What’s at the forefront of all of our minds is the economy, and I won’t stop until every Hoosier who wants a job, has a job,” he said. 
Adjunct professor of American Studies and South Bend Tribune columnist Jack Colwell said with Indiana polls being among the first to close nationally, the early results of this particular race would set the tone for the 2010 Midterm elections. He noted an article in Tuesday’s edition of The New York Times, which listed the race as one to watch. 
“Everyone knows there will be a big Republican tide,” he said. “It’s a bellwether race that everyone will be watching.” 
Eileen Flanagan, president of Notre Dame College Democrats, said she is extremely pleased with what the victory repre­sents, not only for Indiana’s 2nd 
see ELECTION/page 4 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer College Republicans watch the election results in the LaFortune Student Center Tuesday night. 

Professor emeritus dies at 86 
Observer Staff Report 
Joseph Brennan, professor emeritus of English, died in his South Bend home on Oct. 
25. He was 86. 
A funeral Mass was cele­brated Monday in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, the University announced in a press release Tuesday. 
Brennan taught at the University of Notre Dame from 1955 to 1993. The press release said he was a “soft-spoken” professor of American literature. 
see BRENNAN/page 5 


Friedman to address recent book at Forum’s signature event 
recent book “Hot, Flat, and what’s to come.” probe a bit more into what topic and he’s a really big name 

By MOLLY MADDEN 

Crowded,” has been highly A roundtable discussion will Friedman will talk about,” Gast which brings more awareness.” 
News Writer 

anticipated by students and oth-follow Friedman’s talk and will said. Other students who have been ers involved in this year’s feature Dr. Carolyn Woo, the Friedman was selected as the involved in the development of 
Pulitzer Prize winning journal-Forum. Martin J. Gillen Dean of the speaker for this year’s signature the Forum throughout the year ist and New York Times colum-“We’ve had a lot of positive Mendoza College of Business, event because of his writings on hope Friedman’s lecture and the nist Tom Friedman will speak feedback,” said senior Shanna Gary Anderson, Hesburgh the marketplace and his critique issues he addresses will res-tonight about the global econo-Gast, a member of the working Professor of Catholic Theology of certain economic practices. onate with students. my’s relationship to the common committee for the Forum and a and Gast. Andrea Mitchell, Chief “Friedman is very vocal on “I hope that students will be good at the Notre Dame Forum’s panelist at tonight’s event. “The Foreign Affairs Correspondent topics of globalization, income able to take away concrete, signature event. tickets for the Forum event with for NBC News, will moderate the gaps and issues that arise when realistic ways that we can be 
The event, which features a Friedman sold out in an hour discussion. discussing the common good,” more responsible as global citi­lecture given by Friedman about and fifteen minutes so it’s clear “The panel is there to ask Gast said. “He brings a more issues he addressed in his most students are looking forward to more informed questions and to informed perspective to the see FORUM/page 4 


Drive to be held at Rolfs 

By LAUREN KELLY 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame community will have the opportunity to save lives through a blood drive run by RecSports in coordination with the South Bend Medical Foundation. The drive will run today and Thursday at the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. 
This drive is one of three blood drives that RecSports and the South Bend Medical 
see BLOOD/page 5 

NOTRE DAME COMMEMORATES SULLIVAN 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer Flowers lay at the LaBar Practice Complex Tuesday in memory of junior Declan Sullivan, who died in an accident at the site Oct. 27. 

Survivor discusses past abuse 
By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writer 
Victimologist and educator Tena Dellaca-Hedrick deliv­ered her speech, “Turning Passion into Purpose” as part of a co-sponsored event held 
b y  S a i n t  M a r y ’s  B e l l e s  
A g a i n s t  Vi o l e n c e  O f f i c e  
( B AV O )  a n d  t h e  C r o s s  

Currents Program’s Collegiate Speaker Series. 
Through audience partici­pation activities, Dellaca -Hedrick helped students, fac­ulty and community members 
see SURVIVOR/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Members discuss role of Off-Campus Council page 3  “Drowsy Chaperone” page 8  Women’s basketball begins season page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Wednesday, November 3, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU CREATED A POLITICAL PARTY, WHAT WOULD YOU CALL IT?
THE OBSERVER 









P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 

Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Meaghan Veselik Alicia Smith Chris Allen Emily Schrank Joe Wirth Graphics Scene Lisa Hoeynck Jordan Gamble Photo Viewpoint 
Coleman Collins Ren Brauweiler 
OFFBEAT 

Superheroes brawl in Conn. parking garage 
STAMFORD, Conn. — It is assault charges for Spider-Man and Captain America, and breach of peace for Poison Ivy. Police in Connecticut said a man dressed as Captain America and another as Spider-Man have been arrested after getting into a fight in Stamford over the Halloween weekend. 
Stamford Police Lt. Elizabeth Erickson said offi­cers found 25-year-old Michael Sanchez, dressed as Captain America, beating the father of 21-year-old Vincent DeCarlo, sporting a Spider-Man costume, in a parking garage Sunday morning. 
Paolo Garcia  Timothy Powers  Allison Jeter  Susan Tith  Andy Schroeder  Yaset Acevedo  
junior  senior  sophomore  sophomore  junior  junior  
off-campus  Morrissey  Pangborn  Pangborn  Morrissey  Fisher  

“The PPP: “Team Coco.” “The Party “The Hakuna “The Turd “The Pokemon Paolo’s Political Party.” Matata as a Sandwich Party.” Party.” Way of Life Party.” Party.” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

The Stamford Advocate reported that DeCarlo allegedly punched Sanchez of Stamford as police tried to break up the scuffle. 
DeCarlo’s girlfriend, 18­year-old Nicole Bitterli of Toms River, N.J., dressed as Poison Ivy, also hit Sanchez. 
Sanchez and DeCarlo face assault charges. Bitterli faces a breach of peace charges. 
N.C. man pursues world record for kidney tumor 
PIKEVILLE, N.C. — A North Carolina man is cele­brating successful cancer surgery in an unusual way: by seeking world record status for the tumor doc­tors removed from his abdomen. The News & Observer of Raleigh report­ed that Eugene Tyner of Pikeville has applied to the Guinness Book of World Records for the status of heaviest cancerous kidney ever removed. 
In a four-hour surgery, doctors removed the kid­ney, which had grown to the size of a cantaloupe because of a huge malig­nant tumor. At 332 grams, the tumor weighed more than twice the normal weight of a kidney. 
The 31-year-old former prison guard said he’s pur­suing the record to solidify his victory over the cancer that nearly killed him. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
RecSports will sponsor a Blood Drive today from 11 
a.m. to 5:30 p.m. at the Rolf Sports Recreation Center. Participation in the blood drive requires participation in a national research study involv­ing testing to detect West Nile Virus in blood donations. 
The colloquium “A Decade of Discovery with Chandra” will take place today at 4 p.m. in Nieuwland Science Hall Room 
118. Daniel Evans, from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, will speak. 
The lecture “New Research on Dante’s Vita nova” will take place today at 4:30 p.m. in the Special Collections Room of the Hesburgh Library. Zygmunt G. Baranski, professor of Italian at the University of Cambridge, will speak. It is free and open to the public. 
The Center for Social Concerns will sponsor a Summer Service Learning Program (SSLP) Information Session today at 5 p.m. in the McNeill Library of Geddes Hall. The SSLP is an 8 week experi­ence within a 3 credit Theology course. The Center recruits Notre Dame students who are interested in expanding their education by working with and learning from persons who are marginalized in society. 
The lecture “Slip Slidin’ Away: The Nimble Leaps of Early Northern Verse” will take place today at 5 p.m. in the Hesburgh Library Auditorium. Roberta Frank, professor of English at Yale University, will speak. It is free and open to the public, 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



54 45 HIGH 5043 4855
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

39 39 LOW 3230 3140 







Wednesday, November 3, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Members discuss role of Off-Campus Council 

By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
At this week’s Council of Representatives (COR) meet­ing, members discussed the role of the Off-Campus Council and how possible improve­ments could increase effective­ness and take more of the bur­den of handling off-campus concerns from other groups, leaving more resources for other issues. 
“So much of the focus of on-campus bodies has been off-campus 
-


issues,” stu involved and 
“We think we can really 
dent body maintaining president up the quality and get a consistent 
Catherine more people to apply for meeting Soler said. “We schedule. 
this if we could get on-
think one of “We don’t 
the things we campus students who are really have 
can do is to living off next year to meeti ngs really bolster which is part 
run.” 
the power of of the prob-the Off-lem,” he Campus Catherine Soler said. “It’s 
Council.” student body president been hard. 
Referencing the group’s constitution, Soler said the Off-Campus Council’s purpose is to “sponsor functions and disseminate information to off-campus students, which has been the goal of student gov­ernment this whole year.” 
Hoping to reduce ambiguity about electing members to the council and better express the group’s intended purpose, Soler raised a discussion about potential constitutional amendments. 
One of the unclear clauses pertains to eligibility to run and vote for off-campus posi­tions. Under the current rules, only current off-campus stu­dents can vote for the follow­ing year, and in practice, only off-campus juniors have tend­ed to run for these offices. 
“I guess it’s just been implied that you have to live [off cam­pus] junior year to run for these positions,” off-campus president Ryan Hawley said. “It doesn’t really make sense. What we’re thinking is having people who are going to live off campus be able to run and vote so it’s much more repre­sentative of off-campus stu­dents.” 
Soler said expanding eligibil­ity for participation could attract more applicants and ensure the most capable stu­dents are given the opportuni­ty to fill the positions. 
“We think we can really up the quality and get more peo­ple to apply for this if we could get on-campus students who are living off next year to run,” she said. 
After it was suggested that the Off-Campus Council’s level of activity has been lacking, Hawley said the problem was figuring out how to get inter­ested off-campus stu­dents 
People want 
to get 
involved and 
help but actually getting them involved has been difficult.” 
Hawley introduced the idea of off-campus ambassadors, whose role would be to facili­tate the flow of information between off-campus students and the on-campus president, as well as maintaining positive relationships with members of the community. 
“We were thinking about having neighborhood ambas­sadors who would go around neighborhoods introducing themselves,” he said. “They would report directly to the on-campus president.” 
Soler said she felt redefining the purpose of the Council could also help with the group’s current funding prob­lems. 
“The focus was thought to be that it was a programming board,” she said. “But if we decide that it’s disseminating information then it’s probably something that could be taken more seriously, if this is a more legitimate need for funds.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 

Knight reviews author’s life 
By MIRANDA PERETTI 
News Writer 
Author and Historian Louise 
W. Knight spoke about her newest book, “Jane Addams: Sprit in Action,” at Saint Mary’s Tuesday. She led an engaging discussion on the life of Addams and her accomplishments in Stapleton Lounge. 
Sister Kathleen Dolphin, head of the Center for Spirituality, introduced Knight. 
“She engages the general reader,” Dolphin said. “This is not an easy task. However, she does it well.” 
Knight’s second book on Addams includes a full biogra­phy as well as her “secret side” growing up in Cedar Town, Ill., and being the youngest of five. Addams co-founded the Hull House in Chicago and is the author of 10 books, Knight said. 
“She knew she wanted to be a medical doctor and live among the poor,” Knight said. 
Addams attended Rockford College in Illinois — a small women’s college for girls of wealthy families — in hopes of becoming a doctor. 
According to Knight, two months after graduation, her father died leaving her in a haze. After one year of medical school she had a nervous breakdown partly due to her father’s death and the realiza­tion that the medical career lifelong dream of living among the poor, she said. The settle­ment house transformed her life. 

According to Knight, she learned that poverty affects the 
was not for her. 
The images of joy among the cata­combs in Rome “took her breath a w a y, ” Knight said. 
Vi siti ng Rome instilled a new drive in Addams and inspired her to develop the Hull House in Chicago, she soul just as much as materialism. She herself was ferocious­

“The settlement house 
ly anti-materi­

was a social effort to 
alistic, even 

take college educated though she came from a
men and women and 
wealthy fami­

place them in a working 
ly, she said. 

class neighborhood.” Addams wrote, “The best teacher 
Louise W. Knight 
of life is life 

author and historian 
said. After convincing a friend to help, the two acquired a property in an immigration neighborhood. 
“The settlement house was a social effort to take college edu­cated men and women and place them in a working class neighborhood,” Knight said. 
The idea was to cross class lines, as well as to fulfill her itself.” 
She was committed to social action and embraced 
union reforms, Knight said. Jane Addams can be described as a “visionary and profit,” according to Knight. She was hated by many but loved by many more. 
This was Knight’s third and final lecture at Saint Mary’s. 
Contact Miranda Peretti at mperet01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, November 3, 2010 
engaged in the discussions fol-agreed with Crotty’s sentiment “Me and my colleagues on the experts and political and theo­lowing the event.” and said the smaller events panel had different ways of logical commentators have defi-
Forum 
continued from page 1 
zens,” said junior Shannon Crotty, a member of the working committee for the Forum. 
Since one of the main goals of the Forum was to facilitate dis­cussion among as many stu­dents as possible, Forum com­mittee members ensured that students who did not secure a ticket to the signature event this evening would still have a chance to participate in the con­versation. 
“Anyone not able to get tickets can watch the event broadcast on Channel 13, the TVs in LaFortune or in the Jordan Auditorium of Mendoza,” Crotty said. “Hopefully, this will allow for more people to become 
Election 
continued from page 1 
Congressional District, but also for the nation as a whole. 
“We’re absolutely thrilled,” she said. “It’s really taken over the national narrative because he is a moderate Democrat run­ning against a very conservative opponent.” 
Flanagan said the club was especially pleased with the results because of all the hard work they put in to aiding the reelection of Donnelly. 
“It validates us as a club because we knocked on hun­dreds of doors and made thou­sands of calls,” she said. 
President of Notre Dame College Republicans Josh 
Friedman’s lecture may be the signature event of this year’s Forum, but committee members and University professors who participated in the Forum’s satellite events that were held over the past two months, believe that the issues addressed at these panels helped prepare the audience for the topics Friedman will discuss. 
“I’m really happy with how the Forum has developed so far,” Crotty said. “The new Forum format, with multiple events and opportunities for dis­cussions rather than just one larger event, definitely allows for more students and faculty to become engaged with the forum topic.” 
University professors who par­ticipated in the satellite events 
Varanelli said Walorski’s loss was not a shock for the club. 
“We’re not terribly surprised. Joe Donnelly has been an incumbent for a while,” he said “We didn’t expect her to pull this off, but she definitely came quite close, closer than we expected.” 
Colwell said Republicans had targeted this race as one to make a statement, as indicated by the amount of money spent by independent groups on nega­tive advertisements directed at Donnelly. 
“They [had] picked this race as a target,” he said. “He raised more than Walorski, but she had more money from inde­pendent groups.” 
Varanelli said despite the local congressional loss, on a national scale his club is extremely excit­allowed more students to active­ly participate in the Forum. 
“I think the Forum events have been excellent and have done a much better job at engaging the students,” said Peter Kilpatrick, dean of Engineering and a panelist in the Oct. 12 Technology: Boon or Bane Forum satellite event. “If you don’t prepare for the [Friedman] Forum event well, it will be more entertainment for the students than academic.” 
Professor Harindra Fernando, a panelist in the same event as Kilpatrick, said the satellite events allowed students to hear a variety of viewpoints concern­ing complicated issues, which is something that the previous Forum format did not always allow. 
ed with the Republican results, which indicate that the party will gain a majority in the House of Representatives. 
“It was a relief to take the House,” he said. “As of now our expectations have been fulfilled. We’re just waiting to see what else falls in our lap.” 
Flanagan said the disappoint­ment of losing the House is cou­pled with the political chal­lenges this change will present. 
“We’re obviously disappointed we lost the House but we did what we could,” she said. “I think the Democrats will have to re-evaluate their priorities because in order to get legisla­tion passed, they must compro­mise.” 
Varanelli said while legislative change may not be swift, what is important is the statement approaching the issue at hand,” Fernando said. “It’s good to come from different angles and viewpoints because the issue is complex that stretches across social and technological are­nas.” 
Crotty said she feels like the satellite events served their pur­pose in preparing students for the Friedman lecture tonight, and the additional panels added more substance to the theme of the Forum. 
“To me, one of the greatest things about the Forum topic of ‘The Global Marketplace and the Common Good’ is that it can be approached from a number of stances,” she said. “The pan­els and discussions from the perspectives of business and legal professionals, engineering 
Americans have made with their voting choices this elec­tion. 
“It’s not like we’re going to see instantaneous change,” he said. “I think Americans have spoken, and Democrats will not take voters for granted as they have. This proves the lack of substance behind some of the promises of 2008.” 
Flanagan said now that Election Day is over, her group can appreciate all the hard work they put into the cam­paign. She said such efforts have defied the notion that young Americans are uncon­cerned with the election process. 
“People really stigmatize young people as being apathet­ic, but our club defied these stereotypes,” Flanagan said. 
nitely addressed the issue com­prehensively.” 
Forum organizers and partici­pants said they feel they have adequately addressed many of the questions that arise when discussing the marketplace and the common good, but it is ulti­mately up to the students to take the information the Forum provides and apply it to their lives. 
“One of the main points we’re hoping students get out of the Forum is to ask themselves why these topics matter to them as students,” Gast said. “I hope it sheds light on mundane, every­day action that can affect the common good.” 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 
“We really care about the com­munity and the Democratic party.” 
Once the lame-duck period ends and the newly-elected offi­cials take office in January, Colwell said Republicans and Democrats would be even more confrontational than they were during the 2010 campaign sea­son. 
He said this is due to the fact that a Republican House will be squaring off n President Barack Obama. 
“The initial thing will be that it will be more divisive, more partisan than it has been,” Colwell said. “The switch of the House to Republican will be a stalemate.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 


Wednesday, November 3, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
Brennan 
continued from page 1 
Among his students was University President Emeritus Fr. Edward “Monk” Malloy, who was an English major as an undergrad­uate and took two courses with Brennan. 
In his autobiogra­phy, “Monk’s Tale,” Malloy called Brennan “one of the most articulate people I have ever 

Blood 
continued from page 1 
Foundation put together each year. 
Jennie Phillips, assistant direc­tor of Fitness and Fitness Facilities, describes past drives at Notre Dame as “very success­ful.” 
She said that the South Bend Medical Foundation staff has 
been “helpful and are good people to work with.” 
“[Giving blood is] an easy way for people to con­tribute to their local community,” Phillips said. “It’s free and doesn’t take a lot of time.” 
So far in 2010, there have been 252 donors from the Notre Dame met,” the press release said. 
A native of Providence, R.I., Brennan graduated from Providence College, earned a master’s degree in English from Brown University and then obtained his doctorate from the University of Illinois. 
Before coming to Notre Dame to teach, Brennan was a Fulbright scholar and did post-doctoral work at the Universita degli Studi in Florence and the University of Gottingen in Germany. 
His wife, Sheilah, associate professor emerita of philoso­phy at Notre Dame, survives Brennan. He is also survived by his sons, Ciaran and Kevin, his brothers, James and William, and five grandsons. 
faculty, she said. 
“I am always so impressed by the response of Notre Dame. Everyone is so service-minded,” Phillips said. 
The actual process of donating “takes about 45 minutes with 10 minutes afterward to eat and drink to make sure you’re not queasy or lightheaded,” Phillips said. 
According to Phillips, there are some requirements to keep in mind if you are planning to 

“[Giving blood is] an easy way for people to contribute to their local community.” 
Jennie Phillips assistant director Fitness Facilities 
donate. You must be at least 17 years old and weigh a mini­mum of 110 pounds. You must be in over­all good health. Also, all first time donors need to bring a photo ID with them. 
Students can donate at a sta­tion set up in the 
community, Phillips said. The result of this is 226 lives saved. A total of 192 units of blood have been collected before this drive, she said. 
“One pint of blood can save three lives,” Phillips said. 
The success of these drives would not be possible without the contributions of students and Rolfs Sports Recreation Center today from 11 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. and Thursday from 9 a.m. to 
3:30 p.m., Phillips said. 
There are call ahead reserva­tions but walk-ins are also wel­come. 
Contact Lauren Kelly at lkelly3@nd.edu 


Survivor 
continued from page 1 
develop a sense of self. However, by helping the audience find themselves, Dellaca-Hedrick also helped them discover the power of life experiences and the empowering nature of com­munity. 
As a victimologist, Dellaca-Hedrick deals with patients 
of domestic and sexual abuse. While Dellaca -Hedrick works with victims as part of her job, she her­self was also a victim of sex­ual abuse. 
However, she said she decided not to dwell on her own victim stories. Rather, she discussed how stories of victimization can change into empowering ones of survival. 
With one exercise show­casing how ‘victim’ and ‘sur­vivor’ are defined by differ­ent terms, Dellaca-Hedrick demonstrated even with good intentions, we view vic­tims in a negative way. 
“Victims of sexual assault die the day they are victim­ized … then they are re ­born,” Dellaca-Hedrick said. 
Dellaca -Hedrick had the audi ­ence describe her based on first impres­sions. The audi ence described her in words detaili ng her race, sex, marital status, reli­
“Victims of sexual assault die the day they are victimized ... then they are reborn.” 
Tena Dellaca-Hedrick victimologist 

of the five adjectives were false. 
She said each and every aspect of a person’s charac­ter contributes to a person’s identity in a vital way. 
“What you see on first glance can re -victimize a person by assuming some­thing about a person,” Dellaca-Hedrick said. “Even from the best intentions, we make assumptions about people … by making assumptions find their own internal power and strength. 
Therefore, Dellaca-Hedrick urged the audience to find themselves, claiming “edu­cation is not the only step­ping stone to where you want to go.” 
Instead, she claimed, it is personal experience that makes people who they are. 
“Academia is the icing on the cake, but the cake — 
your cake — is 
meaningful, ” 
Dellaca­

a b o u t o u r f r i e n d s a n d f a m i l y, w e c a n h u r t  “Every experience, whether pleasurable or painful, is a gift ... and  Hedrick said. A s p a r t o f enriching that c a k e , s h e  
them too.”  has led us to where we  a s k e d  t h e  
D e l l a c a -Hedrick told  are today.”  a u d i e n c e t o create person- 
the audience that all were  Tena Dellaca-Hedrick  a l g o a l s a n d put them into  
s u r v i v o r s ,  victimologist  action.  

who had experienced some event in their lives that has impacted us directly and changed their identity. 
“Anybody who feels they haven’t survived something, I would like to meet you,” she said. 
Despite her own experi­ence of abuse, Dellaca -Hedrick said she would not 
change anything about her life. She said her background led her to travel the world and meet and help people. 
“Every experi­ence, whether pleasurable or painful, is a gift … and has led us to where we are today,” Dellaca-Hedrick said. “It’s what 
gion and age, among other we make of that gift that is things. After compiling a up to us.” list, Dellaca-Hedrick went At work, Dellaca-Hedrick through proving why three said she helps her clients As her last 
activity, she 
made audience members change positions in the room and actually go through another person’s purse. She then asked for volunteers to tell how they felt. ‘Nervous,’ ‘exposed,’ ‘exploited’ and ‘uncomfort­able’ were all words used to describe the experience. 
Those were all the emo­tions she said victims feel when telling their story. By recognizing that everyone has felt this way at some point in their lives, she said they can better relate to our peers. 
Jacqualyn Zupancic, a jun­ior, said she felt a sense of community she felt after the lecture. 
“[The lecture] brings unity. I now know that I’m not alone,” Zupancic said. “People over and over again will face the same things I’m going through.” 
Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 


The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Wednesday, November 3, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

We will win more 
The Giants won the World Series on Monday night. We will win more. 
That’s about all I’m going to say about my first championship team (I wasn’t even four won the 49ers when the Super Bowl in 1994). We took care of business, and I now have brag­ging rights for another nine months. 

This one is for Christopher you Seattle, Masoud Kansas City, Baltimore, 
Assistant Sports Editor 
Washington and Pittsburgh*. 

If you claim any of the above cities as your hometown, your baseball team finished last in its division and you probably didn’t even notice because you all have pretty good football teams. 
But if I told you that in three years your team could go from the cellar of its division to the pinnacle of the free baseball world, would you believe me? 
The Giants finished in dead last three seasons ago with 71 wins in the NL West. We finished second-to-last in 2008, and third in 2009. Basically, we went from being awful, to less awful, to okay, to champions. 
You are still probably leaning towards no because the Pirates have put together 18 consecutive losing seasons; Stephen Strasburg won’t pitch for the Nationals for at least 2011 due to Tommy John surgery; the Orioles play in the same division as the Yankees and Red Sox; the Royals have a cheap owner and the Mariners play in the same city as Pete Carroll, who may actually take down a city this time. 
I say the answer is yes for a couple reasons. 
First, there is parity in baseball. Over the last 10 years, only the Red Sox have won more than one World Series. More than any sport, a gener­al manager with an eye for talent and an owner with any kind of money can give your club the resources to rebound. 
Second, the baseball draft is a legitimate retooling device. There’s no two-day ESPN special, but it gets the job done better than any other sport’s draft, except that of the NHL. The Giants rode two rookies in Buster Posey and Madison Bumgarner all the way to the series, and the Rays did the same in 2008. 
Third, none of your squads have valid curses that come to mind. And even if you do have a small hex, if the Red Sox can get rid of the Curse of the Bambino, any club can throw the curse they’ve got too.** 
So keep showing up to the ballpark like I did (which shouldn’t be too hard, as each of your venues is arguably one of the top 10 in base­ball) and keep checking the stand­ings. One of these days, you may stand on that pinnacle too. 
*Phoenix not included because the Giants have a stranglehold on the NL West for the foreseeable future. 
**Except Cubs or Indians fans. The Bambino has nothing on Bartman or LeBron. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Christopher Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
Science, politics and global warming 
According to the late Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, “everyone is entitled to his own opinion, but not his own facts.” That Moynihan was a politician is ironic, as politics seems to be the one sphere where different parties actually do Edward A. have their own Larkin facts. Social secu-
Scientific 
rity, tax rates, 
Notation 

charter schools — statistics are con­stantly produced on both sides by think tanks and used by political journalists. It’s easy to get either turned off or confused by the acrimonious debate. 
The most polarizing issues are those over values that involve significant cultur­al elements and beliefs. Interestingly, sci­ence is inextricably involved in many of these hot-button topics. Some of the major cultural debates of the past decades have involved the role of science in determining priorities. The teaching of evolution versus intelligent design and the global warming debate are two exam­ples of such issues. The handling of the two subjects by the scientific community affords larger insights about the interac­tion between science and politics. 
The evolution debate is an example in which science clearly can and should be marshaled to support a specific view­point. Part of the reason for this is the accessibility of the scientific evidence to everyone — even a cursory study of evo­lution is incredibly persuasive. The simi­larity of our genes and proteins and those of yeast and bacteria can easily be dis­played. Simply going on a walk or to the zoo can remind of us of our striking simi­larity to other creatures. The incredible richness of research on evolution for more than a century speaks firmly in its favor. No one has ever found a structure in living things that could not have feasi­bly evolved (called “irreducible complexi­ty”). The science is clear — evolution should be taught in school. The debate about evolution is becoming less about cultural priorities and more about simple intellectual honesty. 
This is a positive development — cul­tural issues are often the most divisive, and science should attempt to keep out of 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
the crosshairs. Global warming is a situa­tion where science has failed in this quest. Before I am accused of being a denialist, let me state that I believe that man-made global warming is probably true, and that something should be done about it. Moving our economy towards a more full embrace of alternative energy is undeniably good for the environment (even in the absence of global warming concerns), as well as national security and economic competitiveness in the next century. 
One major problem is that the vast majority of people can never hope to real­ly be able to evaluate the merit of global warming science — most scientists included. How many people have actually researched climate change, as opposed to simply accepting their party’s view on it, armed with a few choice facts from their favorite commentators? How can we be sure enough about the science to enact the large-scale change that must take place to adequately protect against the worst scenarios? Predicting the future is notoriously difficult, even for scientists. The reality is that the complex combina­tion of physics, chemistry and computer-model based speculation that undergirds global warming is incredibly complex. 
So where has science failed in the glob­al warming debate? As much as I wanted Al Gore to win the 2000 presidential elec­tion, the idea of casting the necessity to deal with climate change as a “moral obligation” is exactly the wrong way to approach it. Militant attitudes about the necessity to act quickly and drastically, in a way that is economically harmful in the short term, is sure to only alienate peo­ple. Ridiculing people who deny the scien­tific consensus, despite the fact that no one on either side of the issue really knows how the scientific consensus has been reached — is foolhardy. 
Indeed, the entire issue of the politics of global warming seems fundamentally unscientific to me, which is the reason why I am so surprised at the dogmatic attitudes of some scientific publications. Science is at its core a skeptical endeavor 
— rigorous proof is needed to publish anything. Scientists needle each other for minute experimental flaws, and are care­ful to never rule out any possibilities or permit unverified assumptions. No pre­dictions go unchallenged. So when the leading scientific journal in the world, Nature, announced recently that it will soon publish Nature Climate Change, I was surprised, and quite honestly, disap­pointed. The sureness with which the sci­entific community has proceeded on the global warming front seems to threaten its stated precepts. 

This attitude leads to a deep hostility towards scientists from many pockets of the electorate. It’s what fuels the media sensationalism about the Climategate scandal and the tiny fraction of errant claims in the IPCC report. It’s what ani­mates some people to call the entire idea a hoax to impose more government con­trol on the market. Obviously, politics requires getting your hands dirty. But those who believe in global warming (like myself) should understand that science is about a rational analysis of the facts, an embrace of all the data. There’s no room in science for insulation from competing claims. 
The climate debate will not be won by castigating non-believers as ridiculous and throwing economics out the window. It will be won by a cool-headed articula­tion of the consequences of climate change — answer the “so what?” ques­tion, but do it in an intellectually rigorous way. Most people are driven to the polls by the state of their job or deep-seated beliefs about important cultural issues — not the idea of biodiversity loss or the prospect of future coastal flooding. This, however, doesn’t mean that doomsday predictions should be made to mobilize people. Making this debate as militant as possible is not worth it for the scientific community. If global warming does prove to be overhyped, the credibility of science could be seriously damaged. As Moynihan would surely agree, facts should be regarded with caution. Above all, every­one should be allowed an opinion. 
Edward A. Larkin is a senior with a double major in Biological Sciences and Classical Civilization. He can be reached at elarkin1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“It is better to know some of the questions than all of the answers.” 
James Thurber 
U.S. author 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“It's okay if you mess up. You should give yourself a break.” 
Billy Joel
U.S. musician 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, November 3, 2010 page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Inspired by your memory 
As I walk around campus this week, I am filled with memories from years ago. On Saturday morning, Nov. 13, 1993 I joined the throngs of students in North Dining Hall for breakfast filled with excitement for the “Game of the Century” later that day: No. 1 Florida State vs. No. 2 Notre Dame. As we got our bagels and cereal, I remember the moment when I over­heard another student say: “Did you hear? A freshman died last night!” Seventeen years ago we did not have cell phones, or even wired internet in the dorms, so it took until later in the day to learn the name of the student who was lost from our midst, Mara Fox. She was killed by a hit-and-run driver as she walked along Douglas Road with friends on their way home from dinner off campus. Her death was sudden, tragic, and filled with questions about who was to blame. As news of her death spread across cam­pus, the joy of beating Florida State to claim the No. 1 spot was over-shad­owed by the knowledge that a life was lost too soon. 
As the weeks went by, the Notre Dame community mourned her loss. Her Lyons Hall roommates and her family and friends experienced the deepest grief as their loved one was taken from them. Those of us who had met her in our first three months on campus mourned the bright light we had briefly glimpsed. I had shared adventures with Mara in our early fall golf class as we both failed to make a single shot, gave up, and snuck back to the Rockne before class was over. That was my only encounter with Mara, but I felt her loss deeply. Who knows the friend she might have become, the contributions she might have made to the Notre Dame com­munity and to the world. At our grad­uation in 1997, I remember thinking “someone is missing” and my eyes filled with tears as I still felt the loss of someone who died too soon. 
Witnessing the Notre Dame commu­nity mourn the loss of Declan Sullivan opens up these memories again. The grief, doubt, anger, fear and sorrow felt by so many reminds me of the struggles we all encounter with the loss of someone we love. While his friends and family face the deep and profound loss of Declan, witnessing their grief evokes in each of us our own experiences of loss. For those of us who have lost friends and family members, the grief in our hearts responds to the suffering of Declan’s family and together we mourn the loss of a member of our community. Our compassion opens us up to emotions and questions we have struggled with before: “Why did this have to happen? Who is to blame? Where is God in all of this?” 
I believe that God is in the midst of the community that mourns, weeping with us. I believe that we are stronger when we come together to share our suffering than when we try to go it alone. And I believe that everyone responds to grief in their own way. Listen to your friends who want to talk about other people they have lost, do not judge other people for the ways they respond to the death of a loved one — we all grieve in our own ways. And most importantly, if you are struggling to make sense of your emo­tions or responses in this time of sor­row please talk to someone. Your rec­tor, assistant rector, RA, a professor, priest, campus ministry, university counseling center — someone who can help you reflect on your own experience of this loss to our commu­nity. 
Declan, I never met you but know many people you touched. You will be missed now and in the years to come. May we all be inspired by your memo­ry. 
Megan Shepherd 
staff Assistant Director, ND Vocation Initiative Oct. 29 
Honoring Declan 
You want to do something significant to memorialize Declan Sullivan? Don’t think about doing something for videog­raphers. Rest assured, new regulations will protect them. Instead, do something for those he cared about but who are still quite unprotected: football players. Evidence is growing that not only profes­sional but college and high school play­ers are experiencing cognitive and emo­tional harm as a result of head injuries, even when these fall short of a concus­sion. For example, a recent Purdue study of 21 Indiana high school football players published in the Journal of Neurotoma showed that eight suffered significant cognitive and neurological changes after a season of football even though only four of them had suffered a concussion. 
If Notre Dame cares for its players, who generate so much revenue for it, it will become a leader and test its players before and after the season to see if dis­turbing neurological, cognitive or emo­tional changes have developed. If they have, it will treat the matter as a crisis, and take whatever measures are neces­sary to protect its players. Is there a bet­ter way to honor Declan than to dare to discover uncomfortable truths and be willing to take whatever difficult actions they imply? 

Some might say that following my sug­gestion would be a political exploitation of Declan’s death. That the suggestion has a political dimension I do not deny. I would argue, however, that the investi­gation of a question about the harmful consequences of a culturally entrenched and economically powerful institution is not an act of political exploitation but of political courage. 
James Greene 
alumnus Class of 1971 Nov. 1 

The Observer cover curse? 
In addition to the posters, flags and signs that are covering up the cinder block walls of my room in Keenan, the inside wall near my door also sports six of The Observer’s Irish Insider cover pages from throughout this season. Over the weekend, a friend and I noticed that each of these cover ath­letes has experienced a considerable setback this year. Dayne Crist and Armando Allen have suffered season-ending injuries. Unless the Irish can pull out victories in two of their final three games and become bowl eligible, Ian Williams and Theo Riddick are unlikely to return. Carlo Calabrese missed the Tulsa game with a ham­string injury. The most recent cover features David Ruffer with the head­line, “From Walk-On to Starter to Sure Thing.” The senior kicker is having a great season, but many are wondering why he did not get a chance to prove so in the final minute on Saturday. 

Like the alleged “Madden Curse” that has affected the careers of the NFL stars who have graced the cover of the famous video game, it seems that the Irish may be facing a similar jinx. So for the 2011 season, I only ask that The Observer be a little more selective when deciding who to feature on each Friday throughout the season. Perhaps Rich Rodriguez and Lane Kiffin would be a good starting place. 
Josh Flynt 
senior 
Keenan Hall 
Nov.1 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Wednesday, November 3, 2010 

LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Wednesday, November 3, 2010 page 9 

Football fans donned costumes a day early for the football game vs. Tulsa on Oct. 30. 
From the classic bedsheet ghosts to the entire cast of Mario, those not dressed as “Irish football fans” stood out in the crowd — it was even easy to spot the Waldos. 
Photo illustration by Lisa Hoeynck, Courtney Eckerle, Maggie O’Brien and Sarah O’Connor 
page 10 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, November 3, 2010 
GOLF 

Westwood tops Woods for No. 1 in the world 
and golf game imploded. The waiting for Tiger to get back 
Associated Press 

only surprise for Woods is that to where he has been. This 
SHANGHAI — The first it took this long for someone year, he had some stuff to go encounter between Lee to replace him. through. But when he gets Westwood and Tiger Woods “To be No. 1 in the world, that straightened out, we since they switched spots in you have to win regularly,” expect him to be as good as the world ranking was not Woods said. “And I haven’t ever.” exactly the momentous occa-done that lately.” That remains to be seen. sion some thought it might be. All of that can change this This is the 10th time in his 
A pair of photographers week at the HSBC Champions, career that Woods was crouched into position on the and not just between them. replaced atop the world rank-far end of the range at The top of golf is so crowded ing. Historically, he doesn’t Sheshan International, where at the moment that four play-lose the No. 1 spot as much as Westwood was quietly hitting ers — Westwood, Woods, PGA he loans it out. But he has wedges and Woods was quick-champion Martin Kaymer and never been as unpredictable ly approaching from the put-Masters champion Phil as he is now. ting green. Mickelson — could get to No. And while interest in 
“Westy ... Billy,” Woods 1 this week without even win-America tends to peak when called out to the new No. 1 ning. If Steve Stricker and Jim Woods is demolishing his com-and his caddie, Billy Foster. Furyk had come over to China petition, it becomes fascinat-
He never stopped to chat. for this World Golf ing worldwide with four play­
“Tiger,” Westwood respond-Championship, they also ers whose ranking average is ed, turning his head briefly would have had a shot at No. separated by less than a half-before settling over his next 1. point. shot. It’s possible that the highest “This could be very exciting 
They have been friends for finisher among Westwood, for the game,” Westwood said. as long as they have been on Woods and Kaymer will go to The top spot changed hands their respective tours, and the No. 1 in the world, provided 10 times between Seve exchange was similar to they’re in the top 20. Ballesteros and Greg Norman Consider the case of quickly he can put his game countless others. The only dif-Golf is no longer about over a three-year period in the Westwood. Woods had a lead back together, and whether he ference was the pecking order birdies and bogeys these days. late 1980s. This is more remi-that was nearly triple in the can get back to the level in the world ranking, and even It requires a calculator. niscent of 1997, when four world ranking a year ago, yet where he was winning nearly that comes with a dose of per-To kick off the festivities this players — Woods, Norman, Westwood still managed to half the tournaments he spective. week, the latest version of the Ernie Els and Colin overtake him despite winning entered. 
Being No. 1 in the world is a “Big Four” gathered on Montgomerie — were in the only twice, neither of them a Even at No. 2 — and he big deal to Westwood, as it Shanghai’s riverfront and hunt for No. 1 around the U.S. major. He was consistently could slip to No. 4 by the end should be. On the home page touched swords in a photo Open at Congressional. better than anyone else, with of the week — Woods still of his website is a photo of opportunity to depict what The first time Woods was two runner-up finishes in the seems to be the one dictating him standing before a map of organizers hope will be an No. 1, it lasted a week before majors, a tie for fourth in The the action. the world, cradling a globe epic battle for No. 1. he was replaced by Els, who Players Championship, nine Westwood was asked Sunday and holding up the No. 1 sign. But that’s just this week. was supplanted by Norman a top 10s and only one missed evening if he still considered 
“Whenever you can sit down All four players realize that week later, and then it went cut. Woods his main rival, or if he and say, ‘I’m the best in the this competition will continue back to Woods. It rotated “It gives everyone hope,” thought the challenge more world right now,’ it’s a dream after Shanghai and stretch among those three during the Mahan said. “It’s been a long likely would come from the that everybody holds,” he into Singapore, Australia, next year before the music time since someone other than growing pack of youngsters, said. Dubai, South Africa and stopped and Woods took over. Tiger Woods has been ranked either someone like Kaymer, 
Losing the No. 1 ranking is California — at tournaments Woods, though, has been No. No. 1. Obviously, we all know Dustin Johnson or Rory not a big deal to Woods, nor they play the rest of the year. 1 for so long — all but 32 it’s possible in a sense. It just McIlroy. should it be. This business of No. 1 isn’t weeks since the 1999 PGA takes good play, and some “I wouldn’t write Tiger off as 
He had been at the top for a likely to be settled anytime Championship — that to sud-good luck.” quickly as that,” Westwood record 281 consecutive weeks. soon. denly see so many other play-The good luck in this case said. “I certainly wouldn’t. A year ago, it looked as if he “It could — to really, defini-ers in the mix has given many was Woods’ misfortunes, all of He’s proved that time and time might be there the rest of his tively know — take a year,” more belief that it can be it his own doing. again when he’s gone away career until his personal life Hunter Mahan said. “We’re all done. The question now is how and comes back.” 

NFL 

Redskins work out maligned former No. 1  pick Russell 
least one other quarterback, Bowl player’s future with the Russell’s talents, but said the like he’s in good shape out here 
Associated Press 

who were getting a look from team, and coach Mike other factors do come into con-and he’s working, and that’s all 
the team. Shanahan added to the confu-sideration when evaluating a you can evaluate. Sometimes 
ASHBURN, Va. — Former “We’ll evaluate him and sion by offering varying expla-player. when guys do get a second Oakland Raiders quarterback everyone else out there,” nations for the decision. “I don’t think you consider opportunity, they can change JaMarcus Russell worked out Shanahan said. Russell, the No. 1 overall pick anyone just based off of talent,” their stripes.” with the Washington Redskins The Redskins routinely invite in the 2007 draft, was released Kyle Shanahan said. “Everyone The Redskins also worked out on Tuesday, just three days out-of-work players for work-in May after three disappointing in the NFL’s pretty talented. quarterback J.P. Losman; nose after Donovan McNabb was outs on Tuesdays, but the tim-seasons with the Raiders. He (It’s) other stuff that really sepa-tackle William Joseph; defensive benched in the closing minutes ing of Russell’s visit only added regressed on the field, was fined rates you. He is very talented, end Charles Grant; defensive of a loss to Detroit. to the team’s quarterback for being overweight and was so I think he can overcome backs Tye Hill, Justin Miller and 
Offensive coordinator Kyle drama of the last few days. criticized by the coaching staff some of the stuff that he strug-Sha’reff Rashad, and receivers Shanahan said Russell was one McNabb’s benching raised ques-for his work ethic. gled with. I don’t really know Chad Jackson, Bobby Williams of many players, including at tions about the six-time Pro Kyle Shanahan praised that personally, but if he looks and Taurus Johnson. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
CLASSIFIEDS The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit 
FOR RENT 
IRISH CORNER APARTMENTS New upscale apts. Less than 1 mi from ND, next to Taco Bell on SR933. Fully furnished apts w/gran­ite countertops, GE appliances w/dishwasher. Each has 2bd/2bath. Mstr. bdrm w/walkin closet. No water/sewer bill. $1000/mo starting. Call JSK Development 574-387­4466. —————————————— AVAILABLE NOW 4BD/2BA HOME FOR RENT. 1.5 miles from ND 574­876-6333 ——————————————— 

FOR SALE 
House for sale on Angela. 2.5K sq ft home. 4BR 3.5BA. Furniture ?, fully redone. 
$365K 574-232-2211 
on web at 610.sbrp.us ——————————————— Chess Lessons: 
USCF and FIDE (International Chess Federation) Master, 
2010 Indiana State Chess Champion and coach of 1997/8 K-8 National Championship team 
Dennis Monokroussos is offering lessons to players of all ages and levels (local and online). 
Please contact historicchess@comcast.net for rates and information. ——————————————— 
PERSONAL 
If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu ——————————————— UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. ——————————————— Matthew: "I have a question for you real quick. What did you think of my demo? Did you get it?" 

Aldous Snow: "I was gonna listen to that, but then, um, I just carried on living my life." 
-Forgetting Sarah Marshall ——————————————— 
"Marriage is like a tense, unfunny version of Everybody Loves Raymond, only it doesn't last 22 minutes. It lasts forever." 
-Knocked Up ——————————————— “You shut your mouth when you’re talking to me!” 
-Wedding Crashers ——————————————— 
"She doesn't deserve a baby show­er. She deserves a baby monsoon." 
-Seinfeld ——————————————— “This is our receptionist, Pam. If you think she's cute now, you should have seen her a couple years ago.” 
-The Office ——————————————— 

Wednesday, November 3, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
MLB 

Giants to maintain strong young pitching staff 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas — No arguing the World Series cham­pion Giants have dominant pitch­ing. General manager Brian Sabean isn’t about to break up that talented, homegrown bunch. 
He knows full well more hitting might be needed to make anoth­er deep October run. As is the case most winters for this club, San Francisco will go searching for a big bat that fits the budget. And it’s not supposed to be a great free-agent market this off­season. 
At least now Sabean and com­pany know they can win without that marquee slugger. 
The Giants are on top again, securing their first World Series crown since the franchise moved West in 1958 with a 3-1 victory over the Rangers in Game 5 on Monday night. 
The first question that always comes up afterward: Can they do it again? 
“We’re going to celebrate for a while. We’ll go to our organiza­tion meetings not this week but next and we’ll sort it out as best we can,” said Bill Neukom, the Giants’ bowtie-wearing second-year managing partner. “As we did this year, we will burn the midnight oil. We will not go to bed any night without having fig­ured out who we are, where we want to get, how we get there, who we need to get us there.” 
The Giants headed home late Monday on festive charter flight. The victory parade is Wednesday, pushed back because of Tuesday’s elections. 
Neukom himself let loose for a little while. Soaked with beer in the winning clubhouse, he bounced up and down with his arm around infielder Juan Uribe. 
“Juan, Juan, Juan, U-ribe!” he hollered. 
For all the near misses by gen­erations of Giants greats — Willie Mays, Willie McCovey, Barry Bonds — anyone with a connection to the orange and black had reason to cheer this long-awaited title. 
“A day does not go by until today that I don’t think about the ‘02 Series,” former owner Peter Magowan said, fighting tears. “Now I don’t have to worry about that anymore. I know how much the people of San Francisco ached for this. There are a lot of happy families in San Francisco.” 
Sabean creatively turned the Giants into a contender — and then a champion. His roster of castoffs and misfits, including in-season acquisitions Pat Burrell and Cody Ross, and rookie Buster Posey after a late May callup, came through with sur­prises in every round. 
The Giants got by Atlanta, then stunned the heavily favored two-time defending NL champion “Right now it’s a little bit sur-Phillies. They took care of the real,” Sabean said. Rangers deep in the heart of The Giants got two victories Texas. from two-time reigning NL Cy Young Award winner Tim Lincecum against Rangers ace Cliff Lee — unbeaten in the post­season before this — and a loaded Rangers lineup. San Francisco received spectacular defense from second baseman Freddy Sanchez, who also deliv­ered with four hits and three RBIs in the 11-7 World Series-opening win last Wednesday. 



“There’s just so much tradition and history,” Sanchez said. “For us to be able to do this, that’s why it was truly a team effort.” 
Series MVP Edgar Renteria produced two game-winning hits, including a three-run homer in the seventh inning Monday, all while playing with a torn biceps. 
The Giants hit .237 in the post­season but had a 2.47 ERA. Their postseason batting average was the lowest for a World Series champion since the 1988 Los Angeles Dodgers batted .227, according to STATS LLC. 
Their pitching carried them just as it had all year for a team that clinched the NL West on the season’s final day — and in its third try. San Francisco won the close games with an unimpres­sive offense. 
With Lincecum, Matt Cain, Jonathan Sanchez and rookie Madison Bumgarner, Sabean has quite a formidable rotation set for 2011. One of the first big tasks will be deciding whether to re-sign first baseman Aubrey Huff. 
The Giants will be counting on more from $126 million pitcher Barry Zito, who was left off the roster for all three rounds in the playoffs but handled it with class all the way. 
The 2002 AL Cy Young Award winner with the Oakland Athletics failed to reach 10 wins for the first time since his rookie season in 2000. His 4.15 ERA is the fourth-highest of his career. He went 1-8 with a 6.72 ERA over his last 11 outings and 10 starts and only had one victory in his last 15 appearances. The stretch included a career-worst nine-game losing streak from July 21 to Sept. 14. 
Zito was right there rooting even when he wasn’t pitching. 
“That’s the biggest deal for me, 53 seasons or 52 years — how­ever you want to add it up — teams have been going out there every year trying to bring this thing home,” Zito said. “And they haven’t been able to do it. To be able to be a part of a team to bring something so special to the city of San Francisco, where my heart personally is because I’ve been in the Bay Area for 10 years as a professional.” 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, November 3, 2010 
Dotzel 
continued from page 16 
Bend, she became motivat­ed to do everything in her power to contribute imme­diately and help out her team. 
“I had not fully realized how incredi­bly talented this team was 


Ridderwall’s first season with the Irish started slowly. He did-n’t notch his first goal until his tenth contest, and only had one more goal in the regular sea­son. When the playoffs started, however, Ridderwall found his stride. He peaked in the Frozen Four semifinal game against Michigan, scoring twice, including the game-winner in overtime. 
“That run we had to the Frozen Four was definitely the greatest hockey experience I’ve had with any team. Playing on that level in front of that kind of crowd is something you don’t do too often,” he said. “Now when I look back at it I only wish we could make it happen again.” 
The Irish squads of the past two years were not up to the level of that Frozen Four squad, but Ridderwall contin­ued to improve. He led the team in scoring his sophomore year, finding the back of the net 17 times and earning a selection to the CCHA all-tour­nament team. His junior year was more of the same, scoring 19 times including two hat tricks. That most recent sea­son, however, was a struggle for Notre Dame — a trend Ridderwall wants to reverse. 
“We all believe that we can get back to the Frozen Four and do some damage,” he said. “I think obviously the ultimate goal is to win a national cham­pionship but short-term we want to do better in the CCHA.” 
The Swedish striker has done his part to improve on his play from 2009-2010. 
“I think I’ve gotten a little bit bigger and stronger,” he said. “This year especially I’ve improved my defensive game and awareness of the system we play.” 
Looking back on his time in South Bend, the finance major is satisfied with his decision to play for Jackson. 
“Hockey-wise, we played in the Frozen Four, we won the CCHA regular season and the playoffs [and] we’ve continued to build off of that and make this program great,” he said. “I’ve definitely liked the expe­rience I’ve had here.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
until I was a part of it, ” she said. “Nothing compares to training and racing with them on a daily basis. I can already tell they are some of the greatest role 

“I had not fully realized how incredibly talented this team was until I was a part of it.” 
Sarah Dotzel Irish swimmer 
models I will ever come in contact with. This alone makes me want to work my hardest to not only score points for them at meets, 
display dur­ing the 

Sarah Dotzel
team’s meet 

Irish swimmer
a ainst
g Michigan State on Oct. 
29. When Dotzel got off the bus in East Lansing, she found out that she would be compet­ing in the 400-yard individ­ual medley. 
“The 400 IM would not typically be placed in my usual list of events,” Dotzel said. Irish assistant coach Kate Kovenock even had to assure Dotzel that she was actually in the race, and that it wasn’t a rouse. When the race ended and Dotzel looked to the scoreboard for results, she was met with a pleasant surprise — she’d won. 

“I'm not going to lie, I was incredibly excited when I looked at the clock and saw 
a one next to my name, ” she said. 
H o w e v e r, even in the midst of her first colle ­giate win and a personal v i c t o r y, Dotzel was sure to place her accom ­pli shment within the confines of 
Calle 
continued from page 16 
“I knew my pick was going to be a guess and so I wanted to show the team that I believed they were going to win,” he said with a laugh. “I was half-serious, yes, but I believed they would win.” 
That style of leadership and belief in Notre Dame is Ridderwall’s defining charac­teristic and one that he will need as alternate captain of a green Irish squad. 
“He’s a great example for a lot of players as far as his com­mitment,” Notre Dame coach Jeff Jackson said. 
The Stockholm native under­stands how important his lead­ership will be in his final year playing in the Joyce Center. 
“Being an older guy on a young team like this, you’ve got to lead by example proba­bly more than talking,” Ridderwall said. “Stay positive, [have a] good attitude, and try to keep everyone happy.” 
Ridderwall, the first Notre Dame player from the land of Ikea, moved to Chicago to play for the Chicago Chill, where he was a teammate of current Irish junior Billy Maday. After graduating from high school he played one season in the United States Hockey League, leading the Tri-City Storm in scoring and making the all-rookie team. Throughout it all, however, Ridderwall had his eye on the Golden Dome. 
“Living in Chicago, people build up Notre Dame to be something out of this word. I think I knew right from the beginning after coming to the States that this place was unbelievable,” he said. “I really believed in the direction the program was headed, and with the business school, I think it was a good fit.” 

her team’s success. 
“The fact that I could achieve my first win in a challenging event that I did not feel extremely prepared 
but also to achieve some of for made me the things they have during their time on the “Notre Dame women’s team.” 
swimming has won 14
Dotzel’s 

selfless atti-years in a row. I want tude was on to help make it 15.” 
towards 
very proud of myself, but mostly proud that I was making my first contri ­bution to the team,” Dotzel said. 
With her team-fi rst attitude, Dotzel’s main goal for her rookie season is oriented 
continuing the 

Notre Dam’s dominance in the Big East. 
“Notre Dame women ’s swimming has won 14 years in a row,” she said. “I want to help make it 15.” 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 


Wednesday, November 3, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

McGaffigan adjusts to sophomore season 
By MATT ROBISON Sports Writer  “She hasn’t played as much tennis as most of her teammates, but is getting more experience  motivate her teammates. As a sophomore, she is already in a position of leadership due to the  same goals.” Perhaps most notable about McGaffigan’s leadership and  was 10-5 with senior Kristen Rafael, 3-3 with graduated senior Cosmina Ciobanu, 4-1 with junior  
every semester,” Louderback  Notre Dame team’s youth. Half of  team-focused mindset is her  Shannon Mathews and 1-0 with  
Before  she  came  to  Notre  said. “You can always count on  the  roster  is  infectious per- graduated senior Kali Krisik.  
Dame,  sophomore  Chrissie  Chrissie to work hard in prac­ freshmen,  and  sonality that car- The improvement Louderback  
McGaffigan was playing three  tice.”  McGaffigan’s role  ries  over  from  speaks of has already been visible  
varsity sports  as  a  senior in  As  far  as  mechanics  go,  as a leader with  the locker room  in Notre Dame’s fall  season  
Davenport, Iowa. But none of those sports was tennis. Regardless, McGaffigan joined  McGaffigan’s natural athleticism has facilitated her efforts to become a better all-around ten- the other return­ing Irish players has been and  “Having played four sports, Chrissie knows  onto the court. “She is very outgoing off the  where she has gone 4-2 in singles and 2-2 in doubles with freshman Julie Sabacinski. At the Eck  
the Irish squad as the Tennisrecruiting.net’s No. 32 national recruit and made an  nis player, as well as create a unique style of play. “She is very athletic and moves  will continue to be essential to the team’s devel­ what it is like to play on a team.”  court and is learning to bring that to the court  Tennis Classic, hosted by the Irish, McGaffigan advanced to the semifinals in the blue singles  
immediate impact during her  well,” Louderback said. “Chrissie  opment.  as  well,”  draw and the quarterfinals of the  
freshman season. This year, her  plays a bigger game and is work­ “Having played  Jay Louderback  L o u d e r b a c k  blue  doubles  bracket  with  
play is continually on the rise as  ing on being more aggressive by  four  sports,  Irish coach  said.  Sabacinski.  
she constantly works to improve  coming to the net more after her  Chrissie knows  Last  season,  McGaffigan will be looked to  
on the court.  big forehand. She also uses her  what it is like to  McGaffigan went  once more when the Irish travel  
Irish coach Jay Louderback  serve well to set up easier shots.”  play on a team,”  16-10  in  her  to Champaign, Ill., next week to  
praised the effort and drive  Although she has not played  Louderback said.  matches overall,  compete in the Illinois Blast tour- 
McGaffigan has shown this sea- tennis as much as she has other  “She is very good at helping moti­ 16-9 in dual play, 4-0 Big East,  nament.  
son, especially since she has less  sports, McGaffigan’s extensive  vating her teammates and real- and 0-1 on tour. At one point, she  
experience than most of her  experience as an athlete has con­ izes how important it is for a  climbed to the No. 90 in the  Contact Matt Robison at  
teammates.  tributed to her ability to lead and  team to work for toward the  national ranks. In doubles, she  mrobison@nd.edu  

Zhang 
continued from page 16 
stroke total, coming in one under par. Zhang improved on the final day of play, cut­ting her individual strokes from 73 the previous day to 70 in the final round. She fin­ished only three strokes behind the first place finish­er, TCU’s Brooke Beeler. 
Two strokes behind Zhang was Notre Dame senior So-Hyun Park, who tied for fourth with Colorado’s Emily Talley at 217 strokes, ending one over par. Park trimmed her score of 73 in the first round to a pair of 72s in the second and third rounds, an accomplishment considering the difficulties with both the course and weather. 
“The hardest part was placing the ball in the right spot on the greens.” Park said. “The weather today was very windy which made the course tougher to play, but we managed to play pretty well and we shot the lowest team score for the day.” 
Nhim concluded the tour­nament tied for ninth with a total of 220 strokes and four 
over par. The tournament marked her best score on a 54-hole course during the fall season of her rookie year. 
“I’m happy I got a top 10, but as always, individual per­formance can always be improved,” Nhim said. 

Rounding out the top five Irish scorers were juniors Becca Huffer and Allare. Huffer took 43rd with 231 strokes and Allare tied for 54th with 234 strokes. 
Notre Dame’s 18-over par finish was its second best of the season, which aided in its victory over No. 13 Colorado and No. 17 Tulane. 
“Beating two teams that were ranked ahead of us, which will help us move up in the rankings, was the highlight of the tournament,” Park said. 
The Irish will have a break from competition for a few months, coming back to the tee with the spring season beginning on Feb. 21 at the Central District Invitational, hosted at the River Wilderness Course in Parrish, Fla. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 


page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, November 3, 2010 
McGraw 
continued from page 16 
The team that will be on the court tonight is very different from last year’s, so the exhibi­tion will give the team a chance to see just how well they can play together, against someone other than themselves. The dif­ferences from last year are striking, especially in light of the fact that the 2009-2010 squad posted a 29-6 record. The current Irish lost five play­ers to graduation, and have added three freshmen. 
McGraw has seen definite areas of improvement in all sides of the game, especially in this year’s speed. 
“Every team is a little bit dif­ferent,” she said. “I think this team is going to be a little faster than we were last year. I think we’re just a little better defensively, I’m not sure if we’re there right now. I think we can see that we’re going to be a little better transition team. I like the way we’re run­ning, I think things are very up-tempo.” 
Other central areas in which McGraw has noticed the Irish grow are in ball handling, scor­ing and a revived post game. 
“I think with Skylar [Diggins] having the ball in her hands a lot I think we’re going to go a lot and really move the ball in,” she said. “I think we’re shoot­ing the three-pointer a lot bet­ter than I think we’ve shot it last year. I think we have more weapons from the three-point line than we did last year. I’m excited about the post game. I think our post game is better than it was last year. You know, we have more bodies, we have more depth. 
“I think last year, we didn’t have the depth, but now with Erica Solomon, Natalie [Achonwa] and Ariel [Braker], as those two are freshmen, you know, we get three new post players,” McGraw said. “We’re really happy, we’re young, we’re going to have some ups and downs, but I think overall I’m excited about the season.” 
Many of the team’s ups and downs will be coming from the loss of guards Lindsay Schrader, Ashley Barlow and Melissa Lechlitner, who started most of last season’s games, and of center Erica Williamson, who was a steady presence for the Irish, McGraw said. 
McGraw said the team was “absolutely” going to miss their experience and the skills they brought to the team. 
“You have a player like Melissa Leichlictner, who’s an outstanding leader. She was the general, she ran the team,” McGraw said. “That’s a big void to fill with one person, so we have a couple people trying to fill that void. We lose Lindsay Schrader, who could really score on the block, the leading rebounder. We’re not a good rebounding team right now, so we’re really going to miss her. Erica Williamson, you could really count on her to take the charge if you got beat. Ashley Barlow was just steady, a good defender. We really lost a lot.” 
Among the current Notre Dame players stepping up to fill the voids left by the gradu­ated seniors are senior forward Becca Bruszewski and Devereaux Peters and senior guard Brittany Mallory. 


“[Mallory is] going to be like the ‘glue player’ for us, kind of like Lech was last year for us,” McGraw said. “She’s going to be the one we need in the game to keep us all together,” McGraw said. Peters, who has been out for two weeks with slight tendonitis and is “a little rusty coming in,” will have big things expected from her. Until she is healed, however, Peters will be playing in limited quan­tities, and may not appear in tonight’s game. 
McGraw also mentioned that many freshmen would be com­ing off the bench as well. 
“They [the freshmen] give us great depth. We have nine players right now that we can really count on,” she said. 
Notre Dame’s depth will be on display tonight as the team is ready and excited to start the season. McGraw said she’s looking for a few specific things from her team tonight, which is mostly having a lot of fun. 
“They’ll come out hard, because it’s game day and that’s exciting for them,” McGraw said. “We want to see intensity but a lot of excite­ment. We want to see up-tempo, we want to see a lot of scoring, we want them to have fun while they’re playing, and look like they’re having fun by playing hard and by playing great defense, and diving for loose balls, and taking charges. And having that kind of energy that we need to have.” 
The Irish will face Michigan Tech at 7 p.m. tonight at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
Hope 
continued from page 16 
set from the start, leaving no doubt as to which team had had a better season. 
Of the three matches the two teams have played this season, Tuesday’s was the closest in terms of the final score, as the Belles had double-digit points in each set, a feat they had not reached in each set faced against the Flying Dutch this season. 
The second set was the strongest for Saint Mary’s, with 
a .243 hitting percentage off of 13 kills and only four errors on 37 swings. Although the Belles fell short in the set, it was the closest they have come to win­ning a set against the Flying Dutch this season. 
Hope is heavily favored to win the tournament, which will con­clude on Nov. 6. 
Sophomore outside hitter Stephanie Bodien led the Belles once again this season with a team-high eight kills that were matched by eight digs. Junior outside hitter Lindsey Stuss added seven kills and three assists to the Belles effort while freshman setter Hailee Leitz notched a team-high 18 assists, 8 digs and two kills. Junior Meghann Rose brought in a team-high 13 digs and an assist. 
In her final match at Saint Mary’s, senior Ellen Hueslmann picked up nine digs and three kills. 
Tuesday’s match was the final contest of the Belles’ season. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


Wednesday, November 3, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Wednesday, November 3, 2010 page 16 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Taking the court 
McGraw, Irish begin 2010 season at home 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame is ready to jump-start the season tonight when it hosts Michigan Tech in an exhibition game at the Purcell Pavilion. After one of the pro­gram’s most successful seasons last year, the No. 12 Irish are ready to get the first game jit­ters out and put on their new uniforms. 

“I’m really excited to play against some new faces,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “I think we all are ready to just get the kinks out, get in the uniforms, get in front of the crowd, see what the Jumbotron is going to look like, the atmos­phere of the game. Especially for the freshman, just being in the uniform for the first time, it’s a big deal. So we’re really excited to get the opportunity to get in front of our fans.” PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Sophomore guard Skylar Diggins dribbles upcourt during an Oct. 8 practice. Diggins and the Irish see McGRAW/page 14 begin their season Wednesday night against Michigan Tech in an exhibition game. 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 
Belles fall to Hope in tournament 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
The Belles’ season ended Tuesday night as they were eliminated in the first round of the MIAA Championship tour­nament against top-seeded Hope College. Saint Mary’s (5­21, 3-14 MIAA) went into the match ranked eighth in the nine-team conference after a season where its victories were few and far-between. The Flying Dutch (24-4, 16-1 MIAA) are currently No. 6 in the Division III national rankings and were the regular season MIAA champions alongside Calvin. 
Saint Mary’s dropped the match 3-0 (25-15, 25-19, 25­
12) for the third time against Hope this season. The match was never contested too heavi­ly, as Hope commanded each 
see HOPE/page 14 


ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 
Dotzel’s work ethic serves her well in competition 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
Before freshman swimmer Sarah Dotzel’s name was ever uttered in a collegiate swim meet, her name incited fear with her club former team. At 5-foot-4-inches, it was neither Sarah’s size nor demeanor that provoked terror, but rather the training regimen that became associated with her name. 
“The ‘Sarah Dotzel Set’ is a set created by my club coach when I was about 10 years 
old. It is a set focused on endurance,” Dotzel said. “It’s really difficult and just the name of it sent swimmers on my team into a panic, includ­ing me.” 
The ‘Sarah Dotzel Set’ is emblematic of the fortitude and passion that Dotzel showed for the sport from an 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish end fall slate with strong showing 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame ended its fall season with a strong come­back in the final round of the Alamo Invitational at the Briggs Ranch Golf Club in San Antonio, Tex., as they moved up from fifth to third place with a three-round total of 882 (+18). No. 18 Notre Dame had sat in fifth after both the first and second rounds of play, which began on Sunday. Texas Christian University took the tournament title with an 877, Texas A&M finished second at 880 and No. 17 Colorado took fourth. 

“Our team always goes into tournaments wanting to win, so we’re disappoint­ed we didn’t win, but we did beat two teams ranked ahead of us, ” freshman Kristina Nhim said. 
Nhim was among three members of the Irish team to finish in the top 10, even though the whole team, except for junior Katie Allare, was sick throughout the duration of the tourna­ment. 
Finishing first for the Irish was freshman Nicole Zhang, who took third place overall with a 215 
see ZHANG/page 13 
early age. While swimming for the YMCA in her home­town of York, Penn., Dotzel exceeded even her own expectations under the guid­ance of her coach, Michael Brooks. 
“What enabled my success was a phenomenal coach who pushed me past what even I thought was possible in prac­tice and at meets,” Dotzel said. 
Making the jump from club swimming to competing at the collegiate level required Dotzel to make some adjust­ments to continue her suc­cess. This included Dotzel forcing herself to adapt to a more demanding schedule, both academically and athlet­ically. 
“The major changes have been different kinds of train­ing: including more practices, different kinds of sets and practices, and lifting,” she said. “I had never lifted before college so it was a complete shock to me having 
to lift then go straight to  a  
swim practice.”  
Often freshman year is  a  

time for self-growth, where athletes look for personal improvement and do not nec­essarily make large contribu­tions to their team. However, once Dotzel arrived in South 
see DOTZEL/page 12 
HOCKEY 

Ridderwall thriving early 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
Irish senior left wing Calle Ridderwall had a unique pre­diction in The Observer’s Oct. 8 Irish Insider, published before Notre Dame’s football game against Pittsburgh. 
“Honestly, I have never in my life seen an entire football game,” Ridderwall said. “I pre­dict the Irish will win 96-3. That sounds reasonable, right?” 
Ridderwall hails from Sweden and moved to the United States in 2005, which is the reason behind his lack of understanding of football. He had a purpose for his pick, however. 
see CALLE/page 12 







