the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Poet Dana Gioia awarded Laetare Medal 
Mary Ann Glendon rejected highest honor for an American Catholic last year; award was last bestowed in 2008 
awarded since 2008, when actor University Pre sident Fr. John Award. He also published eight  
By SARAH MERVOSH  Martin Sheen accepted the Jenkins comm ended Gioia’s smaller collections of poems,  
News Editor  honor. Former U.S. commitment to  both faith and two opera libretti and many  
Ambassoador to the Holy See culture.  translations of Latin, Italian and  
Dana Gioia, poet and former  Mary Ann Glendon initially “In his vocati on as poet and German poetry.  
chairman of the National  accepted the Laetare Medal last avocation as arts administrator,  He also has edited over 20 lit- 
Endowment for the Arts (NEA),  year, but Dana Gioia has  given vivid wit­erary anthologies and has writ- 
will receive the Laetare Medal,  declined the ness to the mutu al flourishing of ten essays and reviews in maga­ 
during the 2010  honor after faith and cultur e,” Jenkins said zines, such as The New Yorker,  
Commencement ceremony May  hearing the in the press rele ase. “By award-The Washington Post Book  
16, the University announced  U niv e rs i t y ing him our Uni versity’s highest World, The New York Times  
Sunday.  w o u l d honor we hope b oth to celebrate Book Review and Slate.  
The Medal is the oldest and  award an and participate i n that witness.” Gioia served as chairman of  
most prestigious honor given to  h o n o r a r y Gioia is the  second poet to the NEA from 2003 to 2009.  
American Catholics and is  degree to receive the Lae tare Medal. The During his tenure, he sought to  
awarded annually to a Catholic  P r e s i d e n t University prese nted poet Phyllis strengthen bipartisan support  
“whose genius has ennobled the  B a r a c k Gioia McGinley with  the medal in for public funding of arts and  
arts and sciences, illustrated the  Obama. 1964.  art education, to champion jazz  
ideals of the Church and  University spokesman Dennis Gioia has pub lished three col­as a uniquely American art  
enriched the heritage of human- Brown said last year’s events lections of po etry, including form, to promote Shakespeare  
ity.”  did not affect the selection “Interrogations  at Noon,” which readings and performances  
The Medal has not been  process this year. won the 2002  American Book nationwide and to distribute  



Mendoza takes top spot in rankings 
es to students and student-faculty ratio. 
“Students boasting about the school’s commitment to ethics, Catholic beliefs and passionate professors helped land Mendoza in first place, ” the BusinessWeek article said. “During an economic crisis that has left many young people unemployed, Mendoza also managed a strong showing in career placement, with 95 percent of grads landing a job offer within three months of graduation.” 
Carolyn Woo, dean of the 
M e n d o z a  C o l l e g e  o f  
B u s i n e s s ,  s a i d  t h e  
Univers ity’s top spo t  was  

see MENDOZA/page 8


By JOSEPH McMAHON 
Associate News Editor 
The Mendoza College of Business was named the top undergraduate busi ­ness school in the nation for the first time in Bloomberg BusinessWeek’s 
f i f t h  a n n u a l  r a n k i n g s ,  
w h i c h  w e r e  r e l e a s e d  
March 4.  

Notre Dame, which was ranked second in 2009, finished ahead of the busi­ness schools of University 
of Virginia, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and University of Pennsylvania. The crite­ria include students ’ response to teachers, SAT scores, recruiters’ respons-


Brain Awareness Week to stimulate dialogue 
Organizers hope that week will increase awareness of neuroscience at Notre Dame 


By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
After the much-needed men­tal relaxation of Spring Break, the Psychology Club is sponsor­ing the first annual Brain Awareness Week to get stu­dents more interested and involved in the field of neuro­science and how it applies to daily life. 
Fifth-year student and Brain Awareness Week coordinator Bryce Chung said a growing number of students on campus are interested in neuroscience. 
In response to this growing interest in the subject, juniors Kevin Mickey and Annette Ruth are founding Notre Dame’s first neuroscience club, the Society for Mind, Brain and Behavior. 
The idea for Brain Awareness Week came from the Dana Foundation, an inter­national organization that spreads knowledge and aware­ness of the arts, the brain and immunology research, Chung NEA grants more widely. 

In a lecture he delivered in 2000, Gioia said art and Catholicism work together because “the Catholic, literally from birth, when he or she is baptized, is raised in a culture that understands symbols and signs.” 
“[Catholicism] also trains you in understanding the relation­ship between the visible and the invisible,” he said. “Consequently, allegory finds its greatest realization in Catholic artists like Dante.” 
A native of Hawthorne, Calif., Gioia graduated from Stanford University in 1973. He earned a master’s degree in comparative 
see LAETARE/page 6 


Students volunteer on Mexico border 
By AMANDA GRAY 
Assistant News Editor 
While many students were vacationing or relaxing at home, some Notre Dame stu­dents saved lives along the 
U.S. and Mexico border this Spring Break, senior Joan Swiontoniowski said. 
Swiontoniowski helped lead a group of 15 students who traveled to Arizona to work with No More Deaths, a national organization provid­ing humanitarian aid to migrants along the U.S. ­Mexico border. 
“No More Deaths provides basic humanitarian assis ­tance [in the form of food, water, and medical aid] to those migrants who cross the desert in search of a better life, ” Swiontoniowski said. “To me, this humanitar­ian aid is something we can all stand behind — in spite of what our political and other beliefs may be — as it simply serves to keep people alive.” 
No More Deaths began in 2004 at the Multi -Faith Border Conference, accord­ing to the organization’s Web site. The group seeks to monitor U.S. border prac­tices and lower the number of migrant deaths by provid­ing water, food and medical 
see MEXICO/page 8 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Glenn Close visits Saint Mary’s page 3  ‘Alice in Wonderland’ review page 12  Men’s Basketball page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Tuesday, March 16, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

What the heck is a Hoosier? 
I suspect that for many transplanted Domers, the state of Indiana is a weird place in which to spend four years. The weather is impossible to predict, it has no topography to speak of and the state nick­name —“Hoosiers” — makes almost as much sense as the mission of the Indiana Excise Police. 
A demonym is the name given to the inhabitants of a certain region. For many locales, the demonym is a straightforward transmutation of a place’s name. Europeans call the continent of Europe their home, Canadians are from Canada, Floridians live in Florida, Chicagoans come from Chicago. It’s all quite commonsense, until you get to places like Indiana. What the heck is a “Hoosier,” anyway? Is it a tire? Gene Hackman? A redneck hick? Indiana University doesn’t even know – they just settle for an amor­phous mascot and the colors cream and crimson. So does that mean a “Hoosier” is a pitchfork-shaped monogram? 
Not really. While we were studying Indiana history, my fourth grade class actu­ally had to make up our own stories because no one else had much of an idea anyway. As inspiration, Mrs. Goodrich told us about other people’s theories. The most colorful explanation came from James Whitcomb Riley, Indiana’s most famous poet. He said the term came out of frontier barrooms, where there was enough brawl­ing and knife fights to hear “whose ear?” on a regular basis. Another story has less vicious Indiana residents calling out “whose here?” to travelers approaching their cab­ins. 
The most likely and boring answer is that Indiana residents appropriated “Hoosier” after migrating from the southern states and Appalachia, where “hoosher” and “hoosier” meant hillbilly or backwoods (lit­erally, the Anglo-Saxon root “hoo” means hill or high ground). Into the 1850s, poor Southern whites were called “hoosiers” and “crackers.” Yet in the state’s infancy, the people settling in the Indiana wilderness gave the old slang new connotations. As more and more people set down roots in the Indiana wilderness and made the land their own, “Hoosier” took on a meaning of respect, not ridicule. Towards the end of the nineteenth century, the word lost its negative connotation in Indiana, and by 1900 was simply accepted as the state demonym. 
But for me, “Hoosier” doesn’t really entail any of this history. I think of the Oscar-win­ning movie with Gene Hackman and Dennis Hopper, or Indiana’s basketball cul­ture summed up simply in the image of a makeshift hoop and court in a barn lot. Or, you know, it’s my hometown college, Purdue University, being the sworn nemesis of the Indiana University Hoosiers. But I can’t draw a picture of a Hoosier or tell you it’s the state tree, like they can in Ohio. Sure, I’ll explain the James Whitcomb Riley lost-ear story to my Nicaraguan roommate for the heck of it, but sometimes it’s fun to have a state mascot that’s so mysterious. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT WAS T E  IG LIG T OF YOUR SPRING BREAK? 

Gavin Do  Alejandro Sigala  
sophomore  freshman  
Siegfried  Keenan  


“I stayed on “The migrant campus so there experiences really was no seminar and 


“Irish women's “Picking up basketball in trash in Hartford, southwest Little Conn.!” Rock with my cousin Jacob” 
highlight.” 
soaking up the Florida sun!” 
IN BRIEF 
The exhibit “Yin Yu Tang: A Chinese Home ” will be shown today from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the Snite Museum of Art. The exhibit will run until April 25. Admission is free. 
Daily Mass will be held at 
11:30 a.m . and 5:15 p.m . today in The Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
A lecture titled “Living the Dead Sea Scrolls? Medieval Jewish Sectarianism and Qumran” will begin at 5:15 
p.m. The lecture will be held in 126 DeBartolo Hall today. 
The 16th Annual Hesburgh Lecture in Ethics and Public Policy: “Education as a Tool in Preventing Violent Conflict: Suggestions for the International Criminal Court” will be held at 4:15 
p.m. today at the Hesburgh Center Auditorium . The event is free and open to the public. 
A children’s storytime read­ing of “The Curious Polka-Dot Present” will be present­ed at 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. today. The reading will be held at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. The event is free and open to the pub­lic. 
A colloquium titled “Applying Nuclear Physics to Address Challenges in National Security” will begin 4 p.m. tomorrow. The event will be held in 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Friday Saturday 

OFFBEAT 
Woman allegedly hits sis­ter with toilet tank lid 
IOWA CITY, Iowa – Iowa City police arrested a woman who allegedly attacked her sister with the lid of a toilet tank. Nitasha Johnson, of Iowa City, was arrested early Sunday and was charged with domestic abuse assault causing injury and interference with official acts. According to police, Johnson removed the lid and hit her sister during a fight. Authorities said the sister suffered an injured foot and finger. 
Johnson was taken to the Johnson County jail. She remained in jail on Monday on a $1,500 bond. Jail offi­cials did not know if she had hired an attorney. 
Determined bulldog chews officer’s tires, bumper 
CHATTANOOGA, Tenn. – What happened to a Chattanooga police offi­cer’s car was certainly under the radar. A city police spokeswoman said Sunday that Officer Clayton Holmes had been checking traffic speeds with radar and stopped to fill out a report when he felt his car shaking. He found a bulldog chewing on the tires. After the dog attacked two passing cars and a second police car, officers used pepper spray and a Taser on it, but the animal wasn’t deterred. 
By the time McCamey Animal Center staffers captured that dog and two others, it had chewed two tires and the entire front bumper off Holmes’ patrol car. 
Officer Rebecca Royval said the dogs got out of a fence at a nearby welding shop. The owner was cited and the dogs were removed. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Wednesday Thursday 

not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 
LOCAL WEATHER 





CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publica-
tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­
ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can 
correct our error. 
LOW 35 LOW 35 LOW 35 LOW 40 LOW 43 LOW 
Atlanta 61 / 45 Boston 49 / 34 Chicago 56 / 36 Denver 58 / 36 Houston 63 / 49 Los Angeles 83 / 56 Minneapolis 47 / 36 
New York 58 / 40 Philadelphia 56 / 34 Phoenix 77 / 56 Seattle 58 / 41 St. Louis 58 / 40 Tampa 70 / 47 Washington 54 / 40 

Tuesday, March 16, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Actress Glenn Close speaks at Saint Mary’s 
Oscar nominee discusses childhood, college years, professional life; cites family for inspiration for successful career 


By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
As a 12th generation Connecticut Yankee, actor Glenn Close found her inspira­tion and strength in her two grandmothers and her mother to pursue her dreams. 
Close visited Saint Mary’s College Monday as the Margaret Hill Endowed Lecturer. In “An Evening With Glenn Close,” Close spoke about her journey as an actor in the College’s O’Laughlin Auditorium. She shared stories from her life and told tales of past auditions, her childhood and her family. 
Close introduced herself with an anecdote about a woman who spotted her at the airport and mistook her for Meryl Streep. 
“Your perception of those characters have deeply influ­enced your perception of me,” Close said. 
Close said she based some of her characters after her grand­mothers’ strong personalities. Both of her grandmothers were talented — one dreamed of being a famous singer, and the other longed to become an actor. 
Close said neither of her grandmothers was allowed to pursue their dreams, so Close said she knew her grandmoth­ers were watching over her while she chased her goals. 
Close said she was also inspired by her mother’s intelli­gence and strength, even though she never graduated from high school or attended college. 
She said her mother is “the most well-read, strongest and compassionate women I will even know.” 
Close described her childhood as “magic.” She said she spent her childhood playing outdoors with her siblings and also spent hours on her own in the woods. 
“Our catch phrase was ‘let’s pretend,’” Close said. “I just never wanted to stop playing. Living in my imagination was something I never had to work at.” 
When she was seven years old, her mother and father decided to join a cult. Close said she remained faithful to the group for 15 years and struggled to conform to the expectations of the cult. Finally, Close said she left the cult and was accepted to William and Mary College in Williamsburg, Va. 
Close said college was a way of freeing herself. 
“It was in the theatre depart­ment that I spent most of my time,” she said. 
At William and Mary, Close was inspired by one of her pro­fessors, Howard Scammon. Close said Scammon came to all of her plays in her early professional career up until his death. 
After working in several pro­fessional productions, Close decided to work with a profes­sional acting coach to improve her audition skills. 
“For a long time, I was really bad at auditioning,” Close said. 
Working with acting coach Harold Guskin, Close learned several important lessons, which she said she’s applied to her career as well as her life. Close said one such lesson was to remember to breathe. 
Close said that in order to continue to learn her trade she went to every rehearsal. 
“I saw that acting companies brought together to achieve a common goal are chemical,” Close said. 
Close has played a variety of characters on stage, in film and on television series. 
“All these characters repre­sent a lot in my life and the learning curve in my career,” she said. 
Though she has been suc­cessful in her career and has been awarded many of the parts she wanted, Close said she was greatly influenced by others. 
“I’ve had so many brilliant people constantly whispering in my ear,” Close said. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 16, 2010 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Group continues debate on student handbook 

By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Council 
(CLC) debated potential rec­ommendations for changes to the du Lac student hand­book — including the cre­ation of a student medical amnesty policy and the han­dling of discipline for first-time alcohol offenses in res­idence halls — at its meet­ing Monday. 
“The whole process in my 
opinion is very difficult because we are just giving recommendations instead of voting on policies,” student 
b o d y  p r e s i d e n t  G r a n t  
Schmidt said.  
T h e  n e e d  f o r  a n  e s t a b  - 

lished medical amnesty poli­cy has recently gained trac­tion in student government, he said. CLC is struggling with how to balance its desire for a medical amnesty procedure with the Office of Residence Life and Housing’s (ORLH) need for flexibility to deal with exceptions to the policy. 
“In order for this to be effective, we do need it to be in du Lac and be clear to students,” student body vice president Cynthia Weber said. 
CLC did not approve a spe­cific recommendation for ORLH, but Monday’s draft will be clarified and pre ­sented again to the Council members. 
“We need to clarify that assisting students would not be held liable except under extenuating circumstances,” Schmidt said. 
Council members also rec­ommended that in the case 
of a first time alcohol offense in a residence hall, the student’s rector would be responsible for disci ­pline, instead of sending the case to ORLH. 
Schmidt said this recom­mendation arose from a standard that is “already in place but should be stated clearly.” 
The current du Lac policy allows for in -house disci ­pline when the offense takes place within a student’s own residence hall, but the coun­cil wants to include offenses that occur elsewhere on campus in the language of this policy. 
“One of [Associate Vice President of Student Affairs Bill] Kirk’s desires was that the policies in du Lac address current practice,” Weber said. “We need what is written to be adjusted accordingly for clarifica ­tion.” 
Many Council members hope to recommend the rec­tor handle discipline before ORLH takes action. 
“We are asking education to happen at a more local­ized level, which we consid­er to be more effective, ” Weber said. 
The issue of how discipline is handled is particularly important for students hop­ing to apply to graduate schools, Weber said. 
Some of the rectors on the Council cautioned that set­ting up a policy with only loose definitions could cause confusion for students. 
“If I were a student, I would want more structure 
on this, ” Fr. Pete McCormick, rector of Keough Hall, said. 
Weber said because rec­tors have a strong connec­tion to the average student, she thinks they should be allowed to handle discipline whenever possible. 
“We can keep it at the level where it’s appropriate so as not to unnecessarily tarnish a student’s reputa­tion or record,” Professor of Army Science Jon Crist said. 
Discussion of this recom­mendation will continue at the Council’s next meeting. Other issues for upcoming CLC debate are recommen­dations on the undergradu­ate tailgating policy and drinking games. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Studentshavestoaidresearch 
Coley shows support for uncle, participates in St. Baldrick’s Foundation 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
When sophomore Colleen Coley’s uncle was diagnosed with cancer, she wanted to do something special to show her support. 
During Spring Break, Coley, a native of Greenwood, Ind., shaved her head at an event sponsored by the St. Baldrick’s Foundation, an organization that raises money for child­hood cancer research. 
“I’m not graduating or get­ting married and I don’t have anything major coming up in my life,” she said. “It’s a really good cause and my hair was more than long enough, so I just decided to go for it.” 
St. Baldrick’s has raised more than $74 million since the organization was founded in 2000. More than 130,000 volunteers, including nearly 10,000 women, have shaved their heads in that time. 
Coley said 75 percent of the money St. Baldrick’s collects goes directly to research. 
“I’m planning on going into nursing once I graduate, so this is a cause that I’m really passionate about,” she said. 
Coley quickly surpassed her initial goal of raising $1,000. As of Monday, she had received $1,384 from family and friends. 
“In the United States, more children die of cancer than any other disease,” she said. “And the money that I have raised is critical in reversing that trend.” 
Coley’s biggest reason for shaving her head was to be in solidarity with her uncle and others who have lost their hair undergoing cancer treatment. 
“No one should have to go through cancer, especially kids,” she said. “And losing your hair is just adding insult to injury.” 
Coley said both friends and family were supportive of what she was doing. 
“I met another girl who was a freshman in college and we kind of bonded over the fact that we were both college students shav­ing our heads,” she said. “It was a really cool experience for me.” 
While no one has said anything to her about her recently shaved head, Coley said she has gotten a lot of stares. 
“There was a moment where I kind of freaked out when they put the ponytail in my hand,” she said. “But after that, there was no looking back.” 
Coley said she feels good about shaving her head and has absolutely no regrets. 
“I try not to think about it too much,” she said. “It’s just hair — it will grow back.” 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 




World & Nation 
Tuesday, March 16, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Irish cardinal refuses to resign 
DUBLIN — Ireland’s senior Roman Catholic, Cardinal Sean Brady, said Monday he would not resign despite admitting he helped the church collect evidence against a child-molesting priest — and never told police about the crimes. 
Brady, as a priest and Vatican-trained canon lawyer in 1975, said he interviewed two children about the abuse they suffered at the hands of the Rev. Brendan Smyth. He said both children were required to sign oaths promising not to tell anyone outside the church of their allegations. 
Cuba criticizes U.S. ruling 
HAVANA — Cuba says a U.S. ruling that makes it easier for companies to provide Internet communications services on the island is meant to destabilize the country, not loosen Washington’s 48-year economic embargo. 
“The government of the United States has said clearly that its objective is to use these services as a tool of subversion and destabi­lization,” Josefina Vidal Ferreiro, director of the Cuban Foreign Ministry’s North American affairs office, said Monday in a written response to questions from The Associated Press. 
Last week, the U.S. Treasury Department announced it would allow the export of Internet communications services and soft­ware such as instant messaging, e-mail and Web browsing to Iran, Sudan and Cuba to help people in those countries communicate. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Pro-pot measure fails to make ballot 
LOS ANGELES — Medical marijuana advo­cates have failed to gather enough signatures for a ballot measure challenging a new Los Angeles law that will shutter hundreds of pot dispensaries. 
Lead organizer Dan Halbert said Monday his coalition had gathered about 15,000 voter sig­natures. The group needed more than 27,400 by Monday to put the measure on a ballot. 
Halbert’s dispensary, the Rainforest Collective, is one of hundreds that would have to close under the new ordinance that caps the number of pot dispensaries at 70. 
About 128 dispensaries that registered before 2007 would be exempt. 
Kris Hermes, spokesman for Americans for Safe Access, says the group will seek an injunction to block the ordinance from taking effect. 
Toyota questions Prius driver’s claim 
SAN DIEGO — Toyota cast doubt Monday on a man’s claim that his Prius sped out of con­trol, saying the report is inconsistent with the findings of the company’s preliminary investi­gation. 
Toyota said in a statement that the accelera­tor pedal was tested and found to be working normally and a backup safety system worked properly. The automaker said the front brakes showed severe wear and damage from over­heating, but the rear brakes and parking brake were in good condition. 
The motorist, James Sikes, said his car raced to 94 mph (150 kph) on a freeway near San Diego last week. The March 8 incident ended when Sikes stopped the car with help from a California Highway Patrol officer. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Rep. urges citizens to examine ads 
INDIANAPOLIS — U.S. Rep. Baron Hill is urging his constituents to listen carefully to the claims made in advertising for and against health care reform that Congress hopes to vote on this week. 
The Indiana Democrat says both sides of the debate are spending millions of dollars on television, radio and print advertising in his southern Indiana district. 
Hill issued a statement recommending peo­ple check the ads’ claims with his office or Web sites like FactCheck.org and PolitiFact.com. He also urges people to pay attention to who is paying for the ads. 
Democrats count down to reform 
President expresses optimism that Congress will approve modified health care plan 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — House Democrats triggered the countdown Monday for the climactic vote on President Barack Obama’s fiercely con­tested remake of the health care system, even though the legislation remained incom­plete and lacked the votes needed to pass. 
Obama expressed opti­mism Congress would approve his call for afford­able and nearly universal coverage as he pitched his plan on a trip to Ohio, and congressional leaders showed signs of progress in winning anti-abortion Democrats whose votes are pivotal. 
At the same time, Sen. Jim DeMint, R-S.C., among the bill’s sharpest opponents, said he was “less confident” than before that it could be stopped. 
“They’d have to be remark­able people not to fall under the kind of pressure they’ll be under,” he said of rank-and­file Democrats. 
Some of the pressure was aimed at Rep. Dennis Kucinich, D-Ohio, who flew aboard Air Force One with President Barack Obama during the day, then walked into a senior citizen center with the chief executive in time to hear a voice from the they are open to supporting ers that support for the lack it, curbing industry prac­audience yell out, “Vote yes.” the president when the vote Senate bill would be a tices such as denying cover-
A smiling Obama turned to comes. One of them, Rep. “career-defining pro-abortion age on the basis of pre-exist­the liberal lawmaker and James Oberstar of vote.” ing medical conditions, and said, “Did you hear that, Minnesota, is “in the leaning Union groups and other beginning to slow the growth Dennis?” Then, turning back yes column,” said a supporters announced a $1.3 of health care nationally. His to the audience, he added, spokesman, John Schadl. million advertising campaign plan would require most “Go ahead, say that again.” “When we bring the bill to urging 17 House Democrats Americans to buy health 
“Vote yes!” came back the the floor, then we will have to vote for the measure, and insurance, fine most who fail reply. the votes,” said Speaker officials at the Service to do so and provide govern-
Kucinich, who said later he Nancy Pelosi. Employees International ment subsidies to help mid-remains uncommitted, is one Obama sounded similarly Union threatened to with-dle-income earners and the of 37 Democrats currently in confident in an interview draw support from working poor afford it. the House who voted against with ABC News. “I believe Democrats who vote against Sweeping legislation Obama’s legislation when it we’re going to get the votes, the bill if it loses. seemed to be on the brink of cleared the House last fall. we’re going to make this The lobbying came as the passage in January, after 
In addition, the White happen,” said the president, House Budget Committee, on both houses approved bills House is laboring to hold the who has traveled to three a 21-16 vote, took an essen-and lawmakers began work-support of several other states and lobbied numerous tial first step toward the ing out a final compromise in Democrats who voted for the lawmakers in recent days. House vote, which could talks at the White House. But earlier bill, but only after first Outside interests on both come by the weekend. those efforts were side-supporting strict anti-abor-sides sought to prevail on It was more than a year tracked when Republicans tion limits that would be wavering lawmakers. ago that Obama asked won a special election in altered the second time The National Right to Life Congress to approve legisla-Massachusetts — and with it, around. Committee, which opposes tion extending health cover-the ability to block a vote on 
At least two have signaled abortions, wrote to lawmak-age to tens of millions who a final bill in the Senate. 

MEXICO 
Aztecas street gang blamed for murders 
the families of U.S. government Consulate, she said, though the investi-
Associated Press 
employees. gation is continuing. 
CIUDAD JUAREZ — Suspected drug Mexican authorities put suspicion on Both the American couple and the gangsters chased down and opened fire the Aztecas street gang — a group Mexican man who was killed were on two white SUVs carrying families of allied with the “La Linea” enforcement traveling in similar vehicles — white 
U.S. consular employees from a chil-arm of the Juarez drug cartel. They sport utility vehicles. dren’s party, killing three adults and said that was based on “information The U.S. consulate in Ciudad Juarez, and injuring two children in this violent exchanged with U.S. federal agencies.” shut for Monday’s Mexican national border city, officials said Monday. But the reason for the attacks holiday, also will be closed on Tuesday 
An infant in a car seat survived a remained unclear. as “a way for the community to mourn burst of bullets that killed her All three victims had attended a chil-the loss” of the victims, said consulate American parents. dren’s party hosted by another con-spokesman Silvio Gonzalez. It was the 
The FBI announced it was aiding sular employee shortly before the second U.S. border consulate closed Mexico’s federal Attorney General’s attacks, said the FBI spokeswoman in because of violence in the last month. Office in probing the slayings that El Paso, Andrea Simmons. The consular office in Reynosa, across alarmed both the White House and “There is no information that the vic-from McAllen, Texas closed for several Mexico’s presidency as the surging tims were specifically targeted” days in late February because of gun bloodshed along Mexico’s border struck because of their work with the U.S. battles in the area. 

page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 16, 2010 
of the brain and go into the Mind” will be shown Tuesday will be Saturday’s fundraiser, Wirth. A faculty neuroscience 
often forgotten peripheral at 8 p.m. “Brainanza,” which offers per-group also exists on campus. 
Brain 
continued from page 1 
said. The week is the largest Dana Foundation event in Indiana. 
Although the week is an extension of the Dana Foundation’s international mis­sion, Chung stressed the importance of making neuro­science more accessible to the Notre Dame community as a whole. 
“The mission of this week is to provide students with the opportunity to get their feet wet in neuroscience and explore what the field is all about,” Chung said. “We want to increase interest, introduce the field and make this week a pilot event for the future.” 
In order to achieve this goal, Brain Awareness Week offers 12 different events over five days. Each day centers around one of four themes. Monday’s focus is the mind and Tuesday’s is the body, while Wednesday highlights the self and society and Thursday emphasizes con­structive dialogue. 
Chung said these themes highlight the cognitive, biologi­cal and sociological aspects of neuroscience. 
Senior Lauren Schmitt coor­dinated Tuesday’s events around the theme, “Health and Medicine.” 
“Tuesday is meant to extend beyond the normal functioning 
Laetare 
continued from page 1 
literature from Harvard University in 1975 and returned to Stanford for his master’s of business administration in 1977. 
The Laetare Medal is named in honor of Laetare Sunday, the fourth Sunday in Lent and the day the University announces its recipient each year. The award was first given in 1883. 
Past recipients include oper­atic tenor John McCormack, President John F. Kennedy, Catholic Worker foundress Dorothy Day and jazz composer Dave Brubeck. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 

nervous system as well as what The week’s main event is happens when functions of the Thursday’s forum entitled, brain go awry, “Are We as in autism Designed with and schizo-God In Mind?” ph renia,” “The mission of the “The forum will Schmidt said. allow us to dis-
week is to provide
The week’s cuss where reli­
students with the
events include gion comes from lectures by opportunity to get and what’s in it professors for us,” Chung 
their feet wet in 
from the said. “It will also 
neuroscience.” 
Psychology, relate neuro-Sociology and science with the Biology Bryce Chung God debate in Departments, terms of science 
organizer
and by Dr. versus faith, not 
Brain Awareness Week 
R o b e r t just atheism ver-Spinner of the sus theism.” Mayo Clinic. In The culmina­addition, the film “A Beautiful tion of Brain Awareness Week formances by the Juggling Club, Troop ND and other cam­pus performers. 
“Through this event, we can look at how the brain processes the different types of activities presented,” Chung said. 
In addition to spreading awareness and knowledge to students, Chung hopes the event will continue to make the University administration more aware of the growing student interest in neuroscience on campus. 
Although Notre Dame does not currently have a depart­ment of neuroscience, the University has hired two new neuroscience professors, Dr. Jessica Payne and Michelle 
“The closest thing we have to neuroscience is the psychology department,” Chung said. “Neuroscience is difficult because it’s inherently interdis­ciplinary and consumes a lot of resources.” 
Although neuroscience is usually connected with biology and the hard sciences, Chung hopes to see the field at Notre Dame connected with philoso­phy and theology because of the strong ties those subjects have with campus life. He said he hopes Thursday’s forum will help foster the connections between those subjects. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 

The Observer 
Business

Tuesday, March 16, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

U.S. car owners sue Toyota 
MIAMI — A group of Toyota owners sued the Japanese automaker Monday, demanding a full refund for their recalled cars and seeking a pay­out that could exceed several billion dollars. 
Dozens of Toyota owners in Arizona and Washington claim the vehicles recalled over inci­dents of sudden acceleration are so unsafe they should be able to return them immediately. Attorney Steve Berman said many of the owners no longer trust their vehicles. 
“When we talked with Toyota owners, they all voiced the same desire — to drive the car back to the lot, hand them the keys and pick up a check,” said Berman, who is based in Seattle. “Fortunately, we think the law allows for exactly that solution, and we are asking the courts to make it happen.” 
The new lawsuits seek class-action status, which if expanded nationwide, could mean a set­tlement covering about 6 million recalled Toyotas in the U.S. 
Dozens of other potential class-action lawsuits have also been filed against Toyota since it began recalling millions of vehicles to fix floor mats the company says can snag on the accelerator in some models and gas pedals that can get stuck in others. Critics and lawsuits contend the real problem is Toyota’s electronic throttle control, which the company has denied. 
AIG closes Transatlantic offering 
NEW YORK — Insurer American International Group Inc. said Monday it closed a secondary public offering of Transatlantic Holdings Inc. for about $452 million. 
The nearly 8.5 million shares of common stock were owned by American Home Assurance Co., a subsidiary of AIG. 
As previously announced, Transatlantic Holdings bought 2 million of the shares owned by American Home Assurance in the offering. 
Goldman Sachs & Co., Wells Fargo Securities and BofA Merrill Lynch served as the under­writers of the offering. They have a 30-day option to buy up to 725,969 additional shares, or the remaining Transatlantic shares held by American Home Assurance. 
The offering by AIG comes as the insurance giant looks to repay billions of dollars in feder­al bailout money. The U.S. government has about an 80 percent stake in AIG as part of a loan package during the meltdown. 
Senate unvails regulation bill 
Democrat Dodd presents biggest overhaul of financial controls since New Deal 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — A new Democratic Senate bill to tame the financial markets would give the government new powers to break up firms that threaten the economy, force the industry to pay for its failures and create an independent con­sumer watchdog within the Federal Reserve. 
Legislation unveiled Monday by Senate Banking Committee Chairman Chris Dodd falls shy of the ambi­tious restructuring of feder­al financial regulations envisioned by President Barack Obama or contained in legislation already passed in the House. 
But the 1,336-page bill, which includes provisions negotiated with Republicans, would still be the biggest overhaul of reg­ulations since the New Deal. It comes 18 months after Wall Street’s failures helped plunge the nation into a deep recession. 
In its sweep, the bill would touch all corners of the financial sector, from small-town mortgage bro­kers to the highest pent­house office suites on Wall Street. Lobbyists were already mobilizing to change several of its fea­tures. by the treasury secretary, to goal for ending risky trad-ened with the loss of all its 
“Americans are frustrat-look out for the systemwide ing and hedge-fund invest-regulatory powers, will now ed and angry, as we all health of the financial sec-ments by depository banks oversee all bank holding know,” Dodd, D-Conn., said. tor and to stop financial but calls for a study before companies with assets of “They’ve lost faith in our firms from becoming “too any regulations are written $50 billion or more. But it markets, and they wonder big to fail.” The council and enforced. would also be given power if anyone is looking out for could place large, intercon-Like the House bill, to regulate and even break them.” nected financial institutions Dodd’s proposal would cre-up large interconnected 
In announcing his bill at a under the supervision of the ate a mechanism to shut companies, such as the news conference, Dodd Federal Reserve. And it down large, failing firms, insurance conglomerate stood alone, a sign of the would have the authority to with shareholders and American International difficult task ahead of him approve the breakup of unsecured creditors bear-Group, whose failure could in forging a bill that can large complex companies if ing the losses. Management pose a risk to the economy. pass the Senate. None of they pose a threat to the also would be removed. The bill creates restric­the 10 Republicans on his nation’s financial system. The costs of such a shut-tions for previously unregu­committee endorsed his Dodd partially embraced down would be covered by lated exotic products and plan. Several Democrats Obama’s call for a so-called a $50 billion fund financed financial instruments. It have voiced dismay at Volcker Rule. Named after by the largest financial requires hedge funds that Dodd’s decision to reject a former Fed Chairman Paul firms. manage more than $100 plan for a freestanding con-Volcker, the proposal would The Federal Reserve, million to register with the sumer agency, an Obama limit the size of some of the under Dodd’s plan, emerges Securities and Exchange regulatory centerpiece. largest financial institutions as a leaner institution with Commission. And it gives 
The bill would create a and ban commercial banks new powers to regulate the shareholders the right to powerful nine-member from conducting certain size and the activities of the cast a nonbinding vote on Financial Stability trades on their own nation’s largest financial executive compensation Oversight Council, chaired accounts. Dodd’s bill sets a firms. The Fed, once threat-packages. 

Jobs bill advances past GOP filibuster 
made minor changes when it passed reimbursed for the lost revenue. 
Associated Press 
the bill, requiring its return to the Second, it would extend highway and 
WASHINGTON — A bipartisan bill Senate for approval. mass transit programs through the end that would provide tax cuts for busi-Passage would give Obama a much-of the year and pump in $20 billion in nesses that hire unemployed workers needed victory while highlighting time for the spring construction sea-cleared a GOP filibuster in the Senate Democratic efforts in Congress to son. The money would make up for Monday, opening the way for final con-address unemployment in the run-up lower-than-expected gasoline tax rev­gressional approval. to midterm elections this fall. enues. 
The Senate voted 61 to 30 to end “We need to help people to get jobs,” The Senate vote came the same day debate on the measure. The Senate is said Sen. Max Baucus, D-Mont., chair-House Democrats unveiled a new bill expected to vote on final passage man of the Senate Finance Committee. designed to help small businesses that Tuesday or Wednesday, sending the bill “We need to do more to help business-could be voted on as early as this to President Barack Obama for his sig-es to hire more workers.” week. nature. The bill contains two major provi-The House bill would exempt long-
The $35 billion bill blends $15 billion sions. First, it would exempt businesses term investments in certain small busi­in tax cuts and subsidies for infrastruc-hiring the unemployed from the 6.2 nesses from capital gains taxes, and ture bonds issued by local governments percent Social Security payroll tax would expand the Build America with $20 billion in federal transporta-through December and give employers Bonds program, which subsidizes tion money. an additional $1,000 credit if new interest costs paid by local govern-
The Senate passed a similar version workers stay on the job a full year. The ments when they borrow for construc­of the measure in February. The House Social Security trust funds would be tion projects. 

page 8 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, March 16, 2010 
Mendoza 
continued from page 1 
“not a sudden event,” noting that the school had been ranked high in the past. 
“We never set out to excel in the rankings,” she said. “We were doing what we were doing before the rank­ings. The goal was not to win according to the criteria of the rankings.” 
Woo said commitment to undergraduate education was the motivating factor for the College’s rise. 
“What got us there is we are very serious about the education change our 

“We’re not trying to be 
of our stu-policy of how dents,” she different. We did this we accept stu­said. “If dents just so 
because we want to be 
our stu -we can be 
faithful to the Notre
dents do higher in the their part Dame mission.” rankings,” she we will do said. “Our mis-our part.” sion is to serve 
Carolyn Woo 
W o o people.” 
Dean

offered the Woo said she 
Mendoza College of Business
example of had more faith 
the new Junior Research Challenge: Foresight in Business & Society course, which became a part of the required curriculum last year. 
“As painful as the Foresight course is … it is really to give our students the skills to look at future issues and trends,” she said. “Our eye is always on the preparation of our stu ­dents.” 
Woo said the College ’s effective and hardworking faculty, challenging curricu­lum and devotion to Notre Dame ’s core principles helped the school receive high marks from students and recruiters. 
“When recruiters rank us highly, they probably look at a couple of different things such as how well our stu­dents are prepared academ­ically, people skills and ethi­
cal judg ­ment,” she said. 
In addi ­tion, Woo credit ed the entire Notre Dame experi­ence, rangi ng from First Year of Studies to dorm life, as factors. 
“We ’re not trying to be dif ­ferent,” she said. 

“We were not trying to be number one. We’re glad to be recognized as number one, but we have certain principles and commitments that we’re going to always keep” 
Carolyn Woo Dean Mendoza College of Business 
“We did this because we want to be faithful to the Notre Dame mission.” 
Woo said the commitment of director Lee Svete and his entire Career Center team were also vital in helping the College claim the top spot, as were the alumni who helped students find jobs. 
“The alumni really stepped up,” she said. 
However, Notre Dame is still behind its peers in a few of the items, including a high student to faculty ratio of 19 to 1, lower SATs and lower salaries for faculty members. 
Woo said many of these statistical issues stem from Mendoza’s policy of admit­ting anyone who was origi­nally admitted to Notre Dame. 
“We found that students flourish as business majors, ” she said. “Their skills and education back­ground are highly valued.” 
Woo has resisted the temptation to cap the num­ber of students admitted to Mendoza, largely because freshman year GPA and SAT scores are not adequate measures of long term suc­
cess. 
“We are not 
going to 
in the 
BusinessWeek 
rankings then similar systems largely because they exclude peer evaluations and are more objective. 
“No rankings are perfect, but I have to say that the BusinessWeek rankings have more legitimate items than other rankings,” she said. 
Nonetheless, Woo said she would never tailor Mendoza’s curriculum to the rankings. 
“We were not trying to be number one, ” she said. “We ’re glad to be recog ­nized as number one, but we have certain principles and commitments that we’re going to always keep.” 
Woo said she doesn ’t believe Notre Dame ’s top ranking will lead to a glut of students applying to 
Mendoza. “This is 
nothing new because we were number three and then we were number two, so it’s not like all of a sud ­den we became excel­lent, ” she said. “I hope that people don ’t come into the busi­ness school unless they are interested in business, but it could generate more inter ­est.” 
Woo said Mendoza ’s top spot was representative of the University’s overall con­stant striving for excellence. 
“This is a school to honor the Blessed Mother, and 
[ U n i v e r s i t y  P r e s i d e n t  
E m e r i t u s  F r.  T h e o d o r e  
Hesburgh]  once  said, medi­ 

ocrity is not the way we honor the Blessed Mother,” she said. “Everything we do, we should do it as well as we can. We did what we did because it is our mission.” 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
Mexico 
continued from page 1 
assistance. The first group 
of Notre Dame students worked with No More Deaths in 2008. 
“Originally I was interest­ed in the trip because I 
thought it would be a good opportu­nity to learn more about immigration issues,” Swiontoniowski said. “As a result of my experiences along the bor­der and the people that I met there though, what began as a mere effort to 
learn more about immigra­tion has turned into a pas­sion for border issues and immigrant rights. 
“It’s been important to me to get others involved in No More Deaths so that more people could learn about the realities migrants face in their attempt at a better life.” 
“No More Deaths is the demand that immigration must be a human rights issue,” junior David Rivera said. “No matter what your politics are on the issue, that doesn’t change the fact that people are dying on the border basically every day. 
“Our policies attempt to hide the human side of the issue but families are being broken up and people are dying. We visited the memorial site for a 14-year­old Salvadorian immigrant who died alone in the cold waiting for someone to find her.” 
Junior Elizabeth Furman also experienced life at the border. 
“We camped out in the Sonora desert, and every 
“What began as a mere effort to learn more about immigration has turned into a passion for border issues and immigrant rights.” 
Joan Swiontoniowski trip organizer No More Deaths 
day, we went on patrols down trails that mig rants use and left water and sometimes food for them,” Furman said. “We also spent 
one day across the border in Nogales, 
Mexico, learning about the process of ‘voluntary’ repa­triation. We met migrants who had been the word about the immi­gration of undocumented individuals and individuals who were genuinely invest­ed in the efforts to end migrant deaths,” Ozowara said. 
Rivera said that he had fun, but it was not a vaca­tion. 
“It’s humanitarian aid, and more than anything it left me feeling angry and a little depressed. I’m definitely not hopeless, but I’m just angry about the inaction on the issue and how it ’s become so politicized so as to mask the human element behind it,” Rivera said. “We hope to raise awareness here on campus this semes­ter, possibly raise money for the organization and focus on immigration issues here in the community that other groups are already involved with.” 
Swiontoniowski said the experience helped bring the issues presented to the fore­front for those students who 
attended. 
“Living in 
deported South Bend, Ind., 
“More than anything
and listened it is easy to be to their sto-it left me feeling ignorant of or ries of angry and a little forget about the abuse from realities
depressed.” 
b o r d e r migrants face patrol and when they cross separation David Rivera the border,” 
from their junior families.” 
Junior Beverly Ozowara said she learned more about immi­gration and border issues on the trip. 
“It was amazing to be sur­rounded by so many other individuals eager to learn more and eager to spread Swiontoniowski said. “Border issues really is 
one of the most important social justice issues of our time though, so I encourage everyone to, at the very least, learn more about it.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 



Tuesday, March 16, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 9 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 10 Tuesday, March 16, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
John Tierney Jared Jedick Sam Stryker Megan Finneran John Cameron Andrew Owens 
Graphics Scene 
Blair Chemidlin Jordan Gamble 
Viewpoint 
Lauren Brauweiler 
The food police 
No doubt many of you are reading this column while munching away on the deli­cious cuisine offered at North or South Dining Hall. What is it that you are eating? Cereal? Fries? Pizza? Some fro-yo, per­haps? 
Moreover, as an independent, intelli­gent young adult, you consciously chose certain foods from the various options available based on criteria such as taste, nutri­tional value, fresh-Christie ness, etc. You prob-Pesavento ably did not rely on 

Right-Winging 
others to make the 
It
decision for you. 
Like the majority of restaurants and grocery stores in the United States, Notre Dame’s dining halls and restaurants offer foods ranging widely in health benefits. Some health-conscious people choose to eat only foods that are high in nutritional value and limit their calorie intake, while others disregard their health and consume whatever they desire in unlimited quantities. Still others try to find some sort of balance between the two extremes. 
The important point to take away from the circumstances outlined is that we are all given a choice in regard to what and how much we consume. Furthermore, these choices have consequences, and since the individual is responsible for what he or she decides to eat, the individual is also largely responsible for the health con­sequences that result from these cumula­tive decisions. Although genetic makeup and predispositions also play a significant role in one’s health, the individual has a considerable capacity to increase or decrease the likelihood of developing cer­tain health problems through dietary choic­es. 
Not everyone, however, is content with this state of affairs. Pointing to increasing trends in a number of preventable condi­tions, most notably obesity, health advo­cates are ratcheting up their rhetoric in order to foster a sense of urgency among the public that something must be done to protect people from themselves. 
One such advocate is former U.S. Surgeon General Richard Carmona, who contends that obesity is the “fastest-grow­ing cause of illness and death in the United States.” His statistics indicate that obesity 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
has reached epidemic proportions, with nearly two-thirds of Americans being clas­sified as overweight or obese, represents a 50 percent increase from just a decade ago. 
“Unless we do something about it,” says Carmona, “the magnitude of the dilemma will dwarf 9/11 or any other terrorist attempt.” 
Dr. Clyde Yancy of the American Heart Association elaborates on the public impact of the epidemic. 
“Obesity is depleting our nation’s pocket­book and devastating the health and well­ness of millions of Americans. Left unad­dressed, the obesity epidemic will under­mine our country’s health, reduce our pro­ductivity and threaten our economic securi­ty,” he said. 
First Lady Michelle Obama, who has adopted the cause of ending childhood obe­sity, even linked Americans’ expanding waistline to national security. 
“This [obesity] epidemic,” she stated, “also impacts the nation’s security, as obe­sity is now one of the most common dis-qualifiers for military service.” 
With health experts and political figures alike warning of dire consequences that will befall the nation if nothing is done to curb the rising obesity rate, it should come as no surprise that some government offi­cials have all but declared a war on obesity. Activists and bureaucrats have proposed various solutions to the problem that range from relatively harmless educational cam­paigns and mandatory nutritional labels to more invasive proposals like taxing sodas, imposing zoning restrictions on fast food restaurants and prohibiting the marketing of junk food to children. 
The most recent tactic politicians have employed to fight the battle of the bulge involves banning certain food additives that are thought to contribute to obesity. 
In California, Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger signed a law in July 2008 that prohibits food manufacturers and restaurants from frying foods using oils, margarines and shortenings that contain more than 0.5 percent trans fat per serv­ing. Those that violate the law face up to $1,000 in fines. 
Earlier this year, New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg revealed the National Salt Reduction Initiative, consisting of a set of guidelines for restaurants and food processors to reduce the amount of sodium in their foods by 20 percent over the next five years. While these guidelines are cur­rently voluntary, efforts have already been made to make them mandatory. State Assemblyman Felix Ortiz introduced legis­lation earlier this month that would “pro­hibit restaurants from using salt when preparing customers’ meals,” and levy a $1,000 fine on restaurants each time one of its chefs uses salt to cook. 
The knee-jerk response of many political leaders to perceived social crises, as these examples demonstrate, often involves implementing more laws, more control and more coercive force. As a result, individual choice and freedoms are permanently eroded while the government’s intrusion into our daily lives steadily increases. 
Politicians have no business dictating what we can and cannot eat, and limiting our choice of food ingredients does exactly that. Yes, obesity is a problem, and yes, it does contribute significantly to the overall cost of health care. But paternalistic poli­cies are not the answer. When the govern­ment can control something as elementary as the food we choose to consume, there is virtually no aspect of our lives left that remains out of its reach. And that, my friends, leads to what C.S. Lewis once referred to as the worst sort of tyranny, “a tyranny sincerely exercised for the good of its victims.” 
Instead of relying on government-run solutions, Americans should turn to educa­tion and the free market in order to fight obesity. Dieting and nutrition cookbooks are widely available at bookstores every­where. Many restaurant chains and food manufacturers have introduced healthier options into their menus and range of products. McDonald’s, for example, now offers yogurt parfaits and salads. Campbell’s has created a line of Healthy Request soups that are low in fat, choles­terol and sodium. 
In January, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention released data indi­cating that obesity rates have encountered a plateau, with numbers remaining rela­tively constant for at least five years for men and close to 10 years for women and children. While hardly representing defini­tive proof of progress, these figures offer a sign that the obesity epidemic has halted its expansion without government interven­tion. 
Christie Pesavento is a senior who is majoring in political science and sociology. She can be reached at cpesaven@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“There is always some madness inlove. But there is also always somereason in madness.” 
Friedrich Nietzsche German philosopher 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“We never understand another human being and to think we do isthe most dangerous illusion of all.” 
Jo BeverlyAmerican writer 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Tuesday, March 16, 2010 page 11 
Moral consistency on the issue of life 
I first want to congratulate The Observer for allowing me the opportunity to juxtapose the Conservative ranting that goes on in this paper with some fresh ideas from the liberal perspective. Now, let’s get down to business. Anthony 
The University’s 
Matthew 
Right to Life group 
Durkin 
purports to be in charge of promot-

A Confederacy
ing its stance on 

of Dunces
issues where the sanctity of life is in question. For this group, the issue of what life is to be sanctified appears rather clear cut; once you are conceived, you are a human being and, thus, cannot be killed under any circumstances. The Right to Life group is one of the larger groups at Notre Dame and it makes its voice felt in various ways, most visibly through the “Cemetery of the Innocents” on South Quad. The group also makes an annual trip to Washington to walk in the “March for Life” protest where their goal is politi­cal. They hope to reverse the Supreme Court’s decision of Row v. Wade by endorsing and campaigning for congres­sional members that are pro-life. 
The University, in response to the con­
troversy surrounding the Commencement invitation to President Obama, also took the initiative this fall to convene a “Task Force on Supporting the Choice for Life.” This Task Force, co-chaired by Professors Margaret Brinig and John Cavadini, sub­mitted a list of recommendations in response to the charge of University President Fr. John Jenkins “to consider and recommend to [him] ways in which the University, informed by Catholic teach­ing, can support the sanctity of life.” The Task Force then formally recommended that the University “formulate and adopt a policy statement” on issues such as abor­tion and torture, and to continue to pro­mote Catholic “pro-life” teachings across the campus. 
Noticeably absent from the Task Force’s recommendation, and all of the rhetoric of the Right to Life group, is any recognition of one major injustice in our country that likewise breaches the sanctity of the life question, the death penalty. “Right to Life” to its credit states on its Web site that in addition to abortion, it “also work[s] for legislation that bans embryo-killing stem-cell research, assisted suicide and capital punishment.” Yet, in my four years, I have yet to see or hear this group do anything to oppose capital punishment, especially 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Need for reconciliation 
While at home for a week, I heard more about my local bishop’s initiative to bring more people to Reconciliation during this Lenten season. Reconciliation is the foundation for coming into greater unity with Christ. For those who have been away from the Church for many years, receiving this Sacrament can help them begin a new journey to more actively partici­pate in their faith. For those who have followed the weekly routine of going to Mass and receiving Holy Communion, a strong examination of conscience and participation in Reconciliation can revive one’s desire to act out the words heard on Sunday mornings that often fade from mind in days or hours. The Catholics who hesitate to participate in Reconciliation because they do not feel the need to confess their sins to anoth­er person, preferring to deal directly with God on their own, miss the point of the Sacrament. 
Before his ascension into Heaven, Jesus commanded his apostles to preach the Good News of his salvation and gave them the authority to forgive sins in his name. Reconciliation is a continuation of Jesus’ words as fulfilled by the priests throughout the world. While many people may fear Reconciliation because of a disapprov­ing reaction from the priest, they should view the Sacrament in a differ­ent way: Priests are obliged to look with kindness on those who have been compelled to confess their sins. Those who have had uncomfortable experi­ences of Reconciliation before should still try to find it in their heart to pledge a renewed commitment to God, even it if means taking the time to find a priest that they are comfortable with. While priests may be human, their ordination has granted them the authority to act as examples of Christ who seek to bring people back to God and bestow the forgiveness to those who seek it. The center of the Mass, the Eucharist, is enhanced when Catholics participate after receiving Reconciliation. The entire Catholic community benefits from an increased push for more confessions. 
Christopher Lushis 
senior St. Edward’s Hall March 12 

To Tim 
Dear Tim Abromaitis, 

I’m not writing to you because I hap­pen to think you have a smile that could run the Permacloud permanently out of town, although I do, or because over the course of the past few months you have made my heart stop, my grades drop and my allegiance to the Fighting Irish deepen to the point of obsession. Since the basketball season began you have taught me what burn offense and basketball IQ are and made me wish I could spend my spring break in Madison Square Garden instead of Mexico, playing Bracketology with ESPN commentators instead of Monopoly with my family. But most importantly, you have shown me that it’s possible for a varsity athlete in one of the most competitive programs in the country to be both an outstanding scholar and, by all accounts, a true gentleman. 
And so although you’ve already been honored by the Big East as Scholar-Athlete of the Year, I think you deserve another round of congratulations from us, your peers. Although I see you in the dining hall all the time, I know I will never have the nerve to say this to your face, so here it is in print. Know that it’s delivered with full respect and total sincerity, and not just because I happen to think you have that dreamy smile. I know I won’t be the only Irish fan who’ll be hoping to see it this week as you knock down the 3-pointers that are almost as impressive as your 3.72. 
Sincerely, 
Kathleen Hull 
freshman 
Ryan Hall 
March 15 
in the state of Indiana where two men have been executed in Michigan City (a 40-minute drive) since I began here as a freshman. Worse yet, the University’s Task Force utterly fails to address the death penalty whatsoever. Rather, it blandly states only that the University should con­sider “the spectrum of life issues,” a vague and ambiguous statement that uncoura­geously avoids the issue of capital punish­ment, notwithstanding crystal clear Church teaching in opposition. 
It does not take one long to find support for the inclusion of the death penalty as a “life” issue in statements and encyclicals by both Pope John Paul II and Pope Benedict XVI. Pope John Paul II stated in 1999 that “a sign of hope is the increasing recognition that the dignity of human life must never be taken away, even in the case of someone who has done great evil.” (Pope John Paul II, St. Louis, Mo., January 1999) Pope Benedict XVI announced in 2009 that “The right to life must be recog­nized in all its fullness. In this context, I joyfully greet the initiative by which Mexico abolished the death penalty in 2005.” (Pope Benedict XVI, July 2009) Further support can be found in the Catechism of the Catholic Church and the campaign of the US Conference of Catholic Bishops (USCCB) against the death penal­ty. Surely the task force could not have missed these profound and unambiguous statements. 
This University, of all places, is in a unique position to join other Catholic lead­ers in opposition to this archaic, inhu­mane, and morally unacceptable practice. The execution of a criminal defendant by lethal injection or electrocution is not a “natural death,” and equally violates the sanctity of human life. If you believe in the right to life, you ought to favor the aboli­tion of capital punishment in the thirty-eight states in this country in which it remains lawful. Too many people at Notre Dame turn their backs on this sanctity of life issue because it seems lost in the con­stant debate over the lawfulness of abor­tion. I call upon Right to Life and the Task Force to be morally consistent by address­ing this issue and taking the right stance in the name of Catholic teaching. 
Anthony Matthew Durkin is a senior living off campus and double majoring in political science and history. He can be reached at adurkin@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Organ markets 
Hundreds of thousands of Americans and millions of people across the world need an organ transplant right now. They live with the fact that if they don’t get that organ in time, they are going to die a premature death. That is the longest wait anyone can undertake, and especially painful for family and friends if things don’t work out. The system we have is wrong and there is no reason it shouldn’t be fixed by solutions that have been tried and tested. Now I’m not against anyone donating their own organs to save another person’s life, it is a noble and selfless act, but we would be lying to ourselves if we didn’t recognize that money talks. Why can’t I sell my kidney to somebody that needs it? Why can’t my family benefit from the organs I give up after I die? 
There is a stigma out there about giving a part of yourself for free. I have no problem with it, especially if I have already passed on, but my parents have made it clear to me that they don’t want me to be an organ donor. There is misinformation about the process, and no reward to soften steely hearts of loved ones. Having a market where it is legal to trade organs can make the process easy, open, and natural. We have the technology and processes to implement such an idea, but our lack of action has created an organ shortage that has wrought misery to those who need immediate help. 
Currently the only country that allows legal organ trade is Iran, which has no waiting list for organs. As the United States of America, we can set the example for doing organ trade the right way. We can use regula­tion to ensure dignity and integrity to all parties involved, create over­sight to ensure correct donor matches and safe organ transportation, and avoid exploitation of the poor and disabled. The best part is nothing really has to change. If you don’t want to donate or sell, feel free to keep what your mother gave you. 
Time and time again markets have created efficiencies where it is needed most. There is already a thriving international black market that is profiting off those that are desperate for help. Illegal procedures are very expensive and dangerous, which is why we need to start a legal system so people can get the help they need. Everyone says you can’t put a price on a life, but if we don’t set some kind of bar, we will continue to let our neighbors and friends die for lack of available organs. 
Mark Easley 
sophomore Keenan Hall March 15 

The Observer 
Scene

page 12 Tuesday, March 16, 2010 

By NICK ANDERSON, JORDAN GAMBLE, MAIJA GUSTIN, MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL and ADRIANA PRATT 
Scene Writers 

The movie trailer is a complex specimen. Marketers have about three minutes to sum up a movie, flash some star power and con­vince viewers they should shill out more cash to see the whole thing. 
With 2010 summer movie season fast approaching and the Christmas box office on the hori­zon, the studios are flooding the Internet and theaters with new trailers. Some of these are exqui­site masterpieces in the art of teasing, while others are just plain lazy and uninspiring. 


Parents and their single 30-year­old daughter show up to a hotel. Hot guy greets girl as she leaves the ele­vator. They fall madly in love, then it becomes evident that he’s on the run from hit men and she must join him on his crazy quest for freedom. Katherine Heigl and Ashton Kutcher star in what promises to be an entertaining summer flick, but the trailer doesn’t garner this movie a “must-see” label. There’s plenty of action, pretty shots of Heigl and full-on views of Kutcher’s abs (which earned this trailer a shamrock in and of itself), but the only motor propelling this two-minute clip along is the star power of its two good-looking leads. 

June 4, 2010 
When 28 years pass between a movie and its sequel, there had better be an extremely good reason for the second installment. The “Tron Legacy” trailer smolders for almost a minute and a half before presenting its argument. After a meager backstory, the stereotypical teenage protagonist with an absent father figure is pulled into the computer and the audience follows closely. Epic music, tense but unrushed cuts and the awesome special effects finally show a beautifully realized computer world. It’s everything the original promised. In its final seconds, the steely gaze of an Oscar-winning Jeff Bridges beckons you into the Tron world. 

December 15, 2010 


the hallmarks from November’s blockbuster: moody music, mention Mary-Kate Olsen in some Goth get-ups. The makeup swirling clouds, Pacific Northwest scenery, Robert Pattinson’s for the “Beast” himself is an intriguing design which looks like earnest declarations of love, Kristen Stewart’s eyebrow acting a cross between a Neo-Nazi and a bad case of acne — truly and gratuitous shots of Taylor Lautner’s abs. But the title card ghastly. But the main character’s cursed skin condition must at the end says it’s “The Twilight Saga: Eclipse.” What? It’s like have led these trailer editors to model the preview on a the people behind this trailer aren’t even bothering to be cre-ProActiv ad. About a minute in, it takes a turn for infomercial ative anymore, since they know people will still flock to the the-territory, halting the suspense and drama for an awkward aters anyway. string of micro-interviews with the cast and director. 
June 30, 2010 June 30, 2010 

The trailer for new action movie 
Every action movie cliché? Check. “Kick-Ass” has all the makings of a Special effects? Check. Greco­great preview — plenty of action Roman mythology reference? Check. scenes, a little romance and a lot of hilarious dialogue. (It also Extremely attractive male lead showcasing a short, Roman stars Nicholas Cage and Christopher “McLovin” Mintz-Plasser.) centurion-like uniform? Check plus. Liam Neeson as a god? The movie about a group of everyday folks who turn vigilante Check. The shot of Liam Neeson in all his god-like glory declar­by night is based off a popular comic of the same name. From ing, “Release the Kraken!” is alone enough to warrant this 

Contact Nick Anderson at 

the looks of the trailer, the film has kept the spirit of the comic trailer at least three shamrocks. Combined with Sam 
nanders5@nd.edu, Jordan Gamble at 

alive. It is fast-moving but leaves plenty of time for a little char-Worthington, the Kraken and an epic clash of divinities, the 
jgamble@nd.edu, Maija Gustin at 

acter development and a lot of one-liners. It’s basically the per-trailer sends a shiver down the spine of its viewers and has 
mgustin@nd.edu, Mary Claire 

fect draw for a bizarre movie that looks totally awesome. them ready to purchase their ticket for the movie in 3-D. 
O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu and 

April 16, 2010 April 2, 2010 
Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scene

Tuesday, March 16, 2010 page 13 



By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Tim Burton’s new film “Alice in Wonderland” is not the “Alice” that fills your childhood memo­ries. Thirteen years after the events in Lewis Carroll’s book “Alice in Wonderland” (and the Disney movie adaptation), Alice, played by new­comer Mia Wasikowska, returns to Underland, which she mistakenly called Wonderland on her last visit. Although she has dreamed of her visit to Underland since childhood, she thought it was merely that — a dream — and is convinced she is once again dreaming her fantastical surround­ings. 
But the inhabitants of Underland, many of whom are familiar from the animated film, remember her quite well and guide her through trials and tribulations so that she can fulfill her destiny and save Underland from the tyrannical rule of the Red Queen (Helena Bonham Carter). These characters include the Mad Hatter (Johnny Depp), the White Rabbit (Michael Sheen), Absolem the caterpillar (Alan Rickman) and the White Queen (Anne Hathaway). 
Burton brings his stunning vision to life in “Alice.” The scenery is lush and gorgeous, the costumes are bizarrely beautiful and the makeup perfectly emphasizes the zany features of each character. The CGI animation blends well with the live-action characters to create a totally immersive world. “Alice” can be viewed in 3D, and while Burton is less dedicated to cre­ating an all-encompassing 3D experi­ence than James Cameron was in “Avatar,” the dimensionality of “Alice” is still mesmerizing. Paying the extra $3 for 3D isn’t necessary, but it’s worth it. 
Unfortunately, the rest of the film doesn’t hold up to its stunning visuals. The acting is good all-around, but it could have just been so much better. Wasikowska seems perfectly cast as Alice, who, with age, has developed a bit of attitude, and has lost some of her doe-eyed naïveté. 
However, her dialogue is dry and dull and it seems as if something is missing in the direction she was given. Her enormous potential is there on screen, but she is left as only that — an actress with staggering potential. 
Depp was advertised as the main draw of “Alice.” While his eccentricity seems perfectly at home in the char­acter of the Mad Hatter, he seems a tad too weird, even for a quirky Burton film. Although enjoyable to watch, he is at times difficult to believe. That being said, he is full of energy and lights up the screen. 
Helena Bonham Carter, as the evil Red Queen, is the real highlight of the film. Her lines are mostly limited to “off with his/her head!” but she is both hilarious and vindictive, and her giant head merely adds to the character. She becomes the real star of the film. 
In the smaller roles, Rickman’s voice fits per­fectly to Absolem’s hookah-smoking caterpillar and Stephen Fry is hilarious as the Cheshire Cat. 


Hathaway is debatably creepier as the benevo­lent White Queen than Carter is as the Red Queen, but she takes her character a little too far, making her unbelievable. 
Overall, it’s a good movie. Those who like Burton’s typical unconventional storytelling will probably feel right at home in his “Alice,” although it is definitely not designed for children bred on the Disney classic. Burton’s rendition is dark, twisted and scary. 
All the elements for a great movie are there. Generally good acting, awesome visuals and an interesting story all work well on their own, but in this case, the whole is not greater than the sum of its parts. When put together, everything gets a little mashed up, and, at the end of the day, there is just something missing in “Alice.” It could have been great, even truly awesome. But, sadly, “Alice” just falls a little flat. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 


BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, March 16, 2010 
NBA 

Brooks’ fnal shot secures victory for Rockets 
Knicks continue road winning streak; Celtics get ahead to rest starters; Jazz come back after back-to-back losses 
and a straight-on jumper in Iguodala missed a runner in 
Associated Press 
the first two minutes of the the lane and Gallinari 

HOUSTON — Aaron Brooks fourth to stretch Denver’s responded with a 3-pointer swished a jumper with 2.9 lead to 104-93. for a 10-point lead. The 7-0 seconds left and scored 31 The Rockets shot 59 percent run sealed New York’s second points to help the Houston (23 of 39) in one of their best consecutive win in Rockets rally for a 125-123 first halves of the season to Philadelphia for the first time victory over Denver on lead 68-57 at the break. since 2004. Monday night, snapping the Houston hit 13 of its first 17 Iguodala shot only 5 of 22 Nuggets’ six-game winning shots, many of them layups, and missed all seven of his 3­streak. and generated 10 fast-break pointers. Over his last four 
Carmelo Anthony scored 45 points in the first nine min-games, Iguodala is 1 for 19 points for the Nuggets, but utes to lead 32-20. from 3-point territory. missed a 3-point try at the Denver rallied after Trailing by nine points mid-buzzer. Luis Scola grabbed Houston coach Rick Adelman way through the third quar­the final rebound and finished went to his bench early in the ter, the Knicks went on an 11­with 23 points and 11 boards. second quarter. The Rockets 0 run to take a 67-65 lead 
Scola was coming off a gave away three turnovers in with 2:31 remaining. career-high, 44-point game, the first three minutes, and Harrington scored five points and converted a key three-J.R. Smith scored six quick during the spurt. point play with 41 seconds points to cut the Nuggets’ Dalembert kept the Sixers remaining to put Houston deficit to six. close with nine rebounds in ahead 122-121. Martin returned with 9:37 the third, giving him 16 total. 
Brooks sank a free throw left in the half and scored But Philadelphia fell behind before Anthony drove past seven points during a 16-6 73-69. Shane Battier for a layup to spurt to push the lead to 58-In the first half, Green tie it at 123. Brooks then 42. Denver botched simple scored 15 points on 7-for-15 dribbled around Anthony layups early and Nene missed shooting as the Sixers took a Carter and hit the go-ahead a one-handed dunk try with 55-44 lead into the locker shot from the right of the free 4:24 remaining in the half. room. throw line, giving Houston its Anthony had 19 points at first three -game winning the break, despite going 7 for Celtics 119, Pistons 93 streak since December. 16 from the field. Billups had Paul Pierce, Ray Allen and 
Kevin Martin scored 29 only two points at halftime. Michael Finley scored 15 points for Houston. Chauncey points apiece, and Kevin Billups and J.R. Smith added Knicks 94, 76ers 84 Garnett had 14 points and 17 apiece for the Nuggets. Danilo Gallinari scored 21 eight rebounds on Monday 
The Nuggets led 104 -93 points, Toney Douglas added night to help the Boston with 10 minutes left in the 20 and the New York Knicks Celtics coast to a victory over game after trailing by as won their second straight on the Detroit Pistons. much as 16 in the first half. the road by rallying past the Boston rested its starters in Battier’s corner 3 with 8:05 struggling Philadelphia 76ers, the fourth quarter while beat-left capped a 7-0 spurt to on Monday night. ing up on a non-contender for draw the Rockets within four. Al Harrington contributed the second straight home 
The Rockets couldn’t crack 15, Tracy McGrady scored 14 game. But in between was a Pierce scored 12 points in Andray Blatche scored 24 the four-point deficit until and Wilson Chandler had 12 104-93 loss at Cleveland that the first 6:39 of the game and points and Mike Miller added Scola swished a jumper from points and 11 rebounds for could be a more important 
helped the Celtics open an 14 points and 10 rebounds for the wing with 3:25 to go to the Knicks (24 -43), who measurement of where the 18 -point lead in the first the Wizards, who lost their cut it to 115-113. snapped the Dallas Celtics stand in the playoff quarter. He played just 30 eighth straight game. 

Denver stretched the lead to Mavericks’ 13 -game win hunt. 
seconds in the second quar-Washington shot just 3 of 22 five, but couldn’t put away streak with a convincing 128-Will Bynum had 16 points ter, when the Celtics used a from the field and was Houston. Trevor Ariza’s 3-94 victory last Saturday. and seven assists, and Jason 19-5 run to open a 29-point outscored 31-15 in the third pointer with 1:09 left made it David Lee grabbed 16 Maxiell had 11 points and 10 

lead, before picking up his quarter as Utah built a 90-60 121-119, Arron Afflalo missed rebounds as the Knicks rebounds for the Pistons, who 

third foul. lead. The Wizards shot 36.9 

a 3 and Scola rebounded. He improved to 2-2 on this five-lost their second straight He wasn’t needed much in percent for the game. 
got the ball to Brooks, then game road trip. game and their ninth out of the second half, either. Mehmet Okur scored 14 charged down the lane for a Jrue Holiday scored 18 11. 
Boston led by as many as 33 points for Utah, which had tying layup. Billups fouled out points, Willie Green added 17 Rookie Jonas Jerebko points, 82-49, but the Pistons seven players score in double 

on the play and Scola hit the and Andre Iguodala had 14 scored all 10 of his points in cut it to 19 at the end of figures and won for the 11th ensuing free throw to put the points and a career-high 17 the third quarter. 
three. time in 16 games. 

Rockets ahead. rebounds for the Sixers (23-Detroit lost starting forward The Jazz moved one game Until then, Anthony and the 44), who have dropped five in Tayshaun Prince with 4:53 Jazz 112, Wizards 89 ahead of Oklahoma City for 
Nuggets seemed to have the a row and 10 of their last 11. left in the first quarter when Carlos Boozer scored 23 the No. 4 seed and home ­
game in hand. The Sixers are just 10-22 at he was kneed in the back by points, Deron Williams court advantage in the first 
Houston led by 11 at the home. Maxiell. Prince fell backward notched his 35th double-dou-round of the playoffs. 
half, but Billups sank consec-Samuel Dalembert had 11 into Maxiell’s knee, then ble of the season, and the Blatche is averaging 22.6 
utive 3-pointers early in the points and 18 rebounds for remained on the floor for sev-Utah Jazz ended a two-game points in the Wizards’ eight 
third quarter to get the Philadelphia. eral minutes, holding his losing streak with a 112-89 games in March. Alonzo Gee Nuggets going. His tip-in with After Holiday made a layup back, before limping off with victory over the Washington scored 10 points in the sec­4:36 left tied it at 83-all and to get Philadelphia within 85-assistance. 
Wizards on Monday night. ond half for Washington, Anthony made a 3-pointer 30 82 with 3:47 left, Douglas He did not return. 

Williams finished with 17 which trailed 59-45 at half-seconds later to give Denver knocked down a 19 -foot Prince, who played 82 points and 11 assists, and time. 

its first lead of the game. jumper and Gallinari connect-games in each of the previous keyed a 17-6 run at the start Utah blocked six shots and Anthony scored 11 in the ed on two free throws for an six seasons, missed 26 games of the third quarter that forced 15 Washington third quarter, then knocked 89-82 advantage with 2:03 early this season with a back turned the game into a rout. turnovers. 
down a 3, a baseline jumper remaining. injury. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

gradrentals.viewwork.com ——————————————— SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: lifetime provided. Download appli-If you or someone you care about
FOR RENT For rent: Furnished 4 bedroom Make a difference in the life of a cation: www.baycliff.org For more PERSONAL has been sexually assaulted, we house 5 blocks from campus. Off child! Summer therapy camp for information call or email: (906) 345-can help. For more information, visit street parking, security system, children with physical disabilities. 9314/email baycliff@baycliff.org Notre Dame's website: 
Looking for someone to rent the central air. Nice. Only $350.00 a Located on shore of Lake Superior UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do http.csap.nd.edu upstairs of my home. Quiet month each. Call 574-289-4071. in Big Bay, MI. Positions available ——————————————— not go it alone. Notre Dame has ——————————————— Mishawaka neighborhood, $450 a ——————————————— for Counselors, Waterfront, many resources in place to assist month, includes all utilities. Call Instructors for Nature/Arts &amp; We are seeking a college student, you. If you or someone you love Cleaning By Maria 954-657-1898 250-8278 for details. Crafts/Recreation, Nurses, preferably female, to ride in the needs confidential support or assis-Homes, Apartments, Offices ——————————————— WANTED Therapists, Food Service, and passenger seat and be like a driv-tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at Affordable and Relaible House 3 bed, 3 bath, new Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, ing tutor for a 38 year old lady 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For rehab/clean, so close to ND you WANTED, Apple iPhone SDK responsible, and love children. June learning how to drive. We will pay more information, visit ND's web ——————————————— can see campus from the yard! developers. Contact 13 through August 8. Salary, room you $15 per hour. site: Meeshawaka-can’t wait for DOME Email alexrock@rock.com! daniel@miSoft.com. &amp; board, and experience of http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu DANCE! ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 

Tuesday, March 16, 2010 page 15 
Men’s Division I Baseball USA Today Poll 
team previous 
1 LSU 1 2 Florida State 3 3 Arizona State 4 4 Virginia 2 5 Georgia Tech 7 6 Texas 5 7 Clemson 9 8 Florida 6 9 TCU 8 10 Coastal Carolina 10 11 Louisville 13 12 North Carolina 12 13 UCLA 18 14 Miami (FL) 11 15 Oklahoma 22 16 Arkansas 17 17 Mississippi 19 18 Oregon State 15 19 Rice 20 20 Vanderbilt NR 21 East Carolina 21 22 Kentucky NR 23 Ohio State 25 24 UC Irvine 16 25 Alabama NR 
Men’s Division I Baseball Baseball America Poll 
team previous 
1 Virginia 1 
2 LSU 2 
3 Texas 3 
4 Georgia Tech 4 
5 Florida State 6 
6 Florida 5 
7 TCU 7 
8 Coastal Carolina 8 
9 Rice 9 
10 Louisville 10 
11 Arizona State 12 
12 Clemson 13 
13 East Carolina 14 
14 Arkansas 17 
15 UCLA 19 
16 UC Irvine 11 
17 North Carolina 20 
18 Mississippi 21 
19 South Carolina 15 
20 Miami (FL) 16 
21 Oregon State 22 
22 Kentucky 23 
23 Stanford 24 
24 Vanderbilt NR 
25 Oklahoma NR 


around the dial 
NCAA Men’s Basketball 
Winthrop vs. Arkansas Pine-Bluff 
7:30 p.m., ESPN 
NHL Hockey 

Canadiens at Rangers 
7:30 p.m., Versus 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Kansas receives top overall seed in NCAA tourney 
Associated Press 
An injury hurts as much as a loss in the days before the brackets are drawn up for March Madness. Syracuse endured both and will have to rack up some major air­plane time to make a run to the Final Four. 
Kansas, Kentucky and Duke won their conference tournaments and the top seeding that went with them when the selection commit­tee rolled out its 65-team NCAA tournament bracket Sunday. 
The Orange, meanwhile, also got a No. 1 seed, but was ranked fourth of the four top teams and sent West 
— the result of an early loss in the Big East tournament in which center Arinze Onuaku injured his right quadriceps. 
Onuaku, who averages 10 points, five rebounds and 1.1 blocks a game, isn’t expected to play Friday when Syracuse opens against Vermont. 
Syracuse’s road to the Final Four, set for April 3-5 in Indianapolis, will have to go through Salt Lake City, a 2,100-mile trek from home. 
“We’re proud to be a No. 1 seed,” Syracuse coach Jim Boeheim said. “This team has worked extremely hard, been consistent all year. Obviously, the tournament is always going to be challeng­ing. It’ll be challenging right off the bat.” 
America’s largest, three-week office pool starts get­ting sorted out Tuesday with an opening-round game between Arkansas-Pine Bluff and Winthrop. The tourna­ment goes into full swing Thursday, with Kansas the overall No. 1 seed. 
The Big East led the field with eight teams, tying its own record and marking the third time the conference has put that many teams in the tournament. 
But winning the toughest conference’s regular-season title wasn’t the accomplish­ment it might have been for Syracuse. The Orange (28-4) lost to Georgetown in the Big East tournament quarterfi­nals. That pushed Syracuse down, below Duke, which was expected to vie with West Virginia for the final No. 1 spot. 
Winning the Atlantic Coast Conference tournament helped Duke vault over Syracuse and the Mountaineers. 
“Once again, we’re talking about the entire season,” selection chairman Dan Guerrero said. “We place value on that. Obviously, the big center for Syracuse got banged up. That’s an issue to some degree.” 
Before the committee even met, there was no question there will be a new national champion. 
Defending titlist North Carolina was on a long list of traditional powerhouses that didn’t receive spots in this year’s tournament. 
IN BRIEF 
Ovechkin suspended for two games because of hit 
NEW YORK — Two-time MVP Alex Ovechkin was suspended Monday for the Washington Capitals’ next two games because of a reckless hit. 
The forward drove Chicago’s Brian Campbell into the boards from behind in the first period Sunday and received a major penalty and a game misconduct. With Ovechkin, who is leading the league in points with 96, kicked out of the game, the Capitals later came back from a 3-0 third-period deficit to win 4-3 in overtime. “There’s nothing I can do right now. He just fell and this happens,” Ovechkin said after the game. 
Because he also was suspended for two games earlier this season, Ovechkin is now considered a repeat offender under the collective bargain­ing agreement. He’ll forfeit more than $232,000 in salary based on the number of games in the season instead of the number of days. 
Mariners’ Lee ejected after throwing at Snyder 
TUCSON, Ariz. — Seattle Mariners ace Cliff Lee was ejected from a spring training game Monday against Arizona for throwing at Diamondbacks catcher Chris Snyder. 
With two outs in the bottom of the third inning, Lee threw an inside pitch to Snyder, then tossed one just over the batter’s head. 
Snyder walked toward the mound, and the dugouts and bullpens emptied. No punches were thrown. 
Plate umpire Brian Knight tossed Lee but let Snyder stay in the game. 
In the first inning, Lee tripped over Snyder while trying to back up a play at home plate. But the left-hander denied throwing at Snyder intentionally and said he wasn’t trying to retaliate. 
“I was trying to go inside and a couple got away from me and the guy hitting got mad and came close to the mound and I got thrown out of the game in the process,” Lee said. 
Raiders acquire Wimbley from Browns for pick 
OAKLAND, Calif. — The Oakland Raiders bolstered their pass rush Sunday by acquiring former first-round pick Kamerion Wimbley from the Cleveland Browns for an undis­closed draft pick. 
Oakland senior executive John Herrera confirmed the deal, saying Oakland gave up a pick it had acquired in a previous deal. The Raiders had acquired a third-round pick from New England last summer in a deal for Derrick Burgess. 
“This gives us a guy who has been a strong presence as a pass rusher,” Herrera said. “He has been very pro­ductive.” 
The Browns traded two former first-round picks Sunday, confirming a deal that sent quarterback 2007 first-rounder Brady Quinn to the Denver Broncos about two hours before Oakland announced it had picked up Wimbley. 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, March 16, 2010 
NHL 

Devils’ three goals in frst set the tone 
Blue Jackets see goals from fve different athletes 
Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. — David Clarkson had a goal and an assist as the New Jersey Devils scored three times in the first period against Tim Thomas and held on for a 3-2 victory over the Boston Bruins on Monday night. 
Clarkson took the shot that Rob Niedermayer deflected in and then scored on a break­away — set up by goalie Martin Brodeur — to make in 2-0. Zach Parise finished the barrage that assured the Devils (41-24-3) their 18th straight .500-plus season. 
Blake Wheeler scored for the third consecutive game to cut Boston’s deficit to 3-1 at 43 sec­onds of the middle period, but the eighth-place Bruins failed to stretch their lead at the bottom of the Eastern Conference play­off race. Boston is one point ahead of the New York Rangers and has played one fewer game. 
Patrice Bergeron made it 3-2 with 1:03 left after goalie Tuukka Rask was pulled for an extra skater. 
New Jersey bounced back from a disappointing loss at the New York Islanders on Saturday and won its third straight at home. The Devils trail Atlantic Division-leading Pittsburgh by two points and will host the Penguins on Wednesday. 
Brodeur made 34 saves for the Devils, 3-0 against Boston this season. 
After a sloppy first 10 minutes that featured several turnovers and multiple stoppages, the Devils dominated the final half of the period and stormed to a 3-0 lead. 
Niedermayer started it at 9:58 when he tipped in Clarkson’s shot from the slot that was let go as he fell to the ice. Clarkson pushed the advantage to two with 2:47 remaining the period. 
Brodeur fired a long pass from the crease past the red line and onto Clarkson’s stick. Without breaking stride, Clarkson split a pair of defend­ers and skated in on Thomas. Shifting back and forth, Clarkson settled the puck on his backhand and slid in his eighth goal. 
Clarkson, who missed 23 games from Dec. 31-Feb.13 due to a lower body injury, scored for the first time since Nov. 16. 
His goal was still being announced when Parise made it 3-0 45 seconds later. Thomas stopped defenseman Mike Mottau’s shot but couldn’t con­trol the rebound. Parise found the puck in front and backhand­ed in his 32nd goal. Parise was pointless in three of four games. 
Thomas didn’t make it out for the second period, marking the fifth time this season he has been pulled. The reigning Vezina Trophy winner made only his fifth start in 14 games and dropped his third straight decision (0-2-1). He stopped nine of 12 shots. 
It has been a tough season for Thomas, who has lost his start­ing job to Rask. He also made just one mop-up appearance for the United States at the Vancouver Olympics. 
Thomas had 36 wins with an NHL-best 2.10 goals-against average last season in leading Boston to the top seed in the East. Thomas has only 15 wins with a 2.57 GAA in 40 games this season, a key reason why the Bruins are fighting for a playoff spot with 14 games remaining. 
Rask stopped all 16 shots he faced. 
Blue Jackets 5, Oilers 3 
Antoine Vermette had two assists and scored the clinching empty-netter Monday night to lead the Columbus Blue Jackets past Edmonton, adding to the Oilers’ road woes. 
Kristian Huselius added a goal and three assists and Jake Voracek, Chris Clark and Marc Methot also scored for the Blue Jackets, who totaled only three goals in their previous two games. Derek Dorsett chipped in with two assists for the first multipoint game of his 91-game career. 
It was a wild, wide-open game full of odd-man rushes. That wasn’t a surprise, since the two teams rank near the bottom of the NHL in goals allowed. 
Robert Nilsson and Aaron Johnson each had a goal and an assist and Dustin Penner also scored for the Oilers, who are just 1-14-1 on the road since mid-December. 
Clark made it 2-1 at 4:30 of the second when he scored off a quick wrister from near the top of the right circle. It was his third goal since being acquired in a trade from Washington in December. 
Methot turned a cross-ice pass from Vermette into a 3-1 lead in the opening minute of the third period. 
But the rest of the game was in doubt until Vermette’s goal with 55 seconds left. 
Andrew Cogliano dug a puck off the short boards and then slid a pass through Huselius’s skates to Penner for his 26th, cutting the lead to 3-2. 
After Huselius pushed the lead back to two goals with a breakaway slap shot that hand­cuffed goalie Devan Dubnyk and then trickled across the goal line, the Oilers cut it to 4-3 when Johnson pounced on a rebound at 7:45 of the third. 
There were momentum changes and prime scoring opportunities on both sides the rest of the way until the Blue Jackets took advantage when Dubnyk was pulled for the extra attacker in the final minute. 
Steve Mason finished with 29 saves for Columbus. 
Voracek got the Blue Jackets on the board first. A loose puck ended up on the stick of Derick Brassard near the point. He passed to the right dot where Voracek’s one-timer beat goal­tender Devan Dubnyk. 
Columbus came in 18-12-5 when scoring first this season, while Edmonton was just 6-30­4 when falling behind 1-0. 
Less than 2 minutes into the second period, the Oilers pulled even when Nilsson notched his ninth goal of the year, taking a pass from Taylor Chorney, dek­ing a defender and then netting a hard, low shot from the left hash. 
MEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING 
Villafor paves path for Irish at 12th 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
Three Irish divers placed in the top 20 of the 1-meter and 3-meter events held at the Boilermaker Aquatic Center in the NCAA Zone Meet this past weekend. 
Junior Wes Villaflor led the way for the Irish with a score of 614.55, as he finished 12th overall in the 1-meter event. He improved on the score of 239.50 that he recorded at the meet as a sopho­more. 
Juniors Eric Lex (592.05) and Nathan Geary (536.50) finished 15th and 18th, respectively, for Notre Dame in the event. 
“They dive as a team and that is something we have been able to do for years,” Irish coach Tim Welsh said. “They are a unified group and they have had some great performances.” 
Villaflor also led the way in the 3-meter diving, finishing 13th overall with a score of 662.60. Geary finished just behind him in 14th with a score of 661.30. Lex finished 16th with a score of 646.90. 
“We are pleased with their per­formance,” Welsh said. “They have improved all year.” 
The top two finishers at the meet in the 1-meter were both Purdue divers. David Colturi 
(762.30) and David Boudia 
(746.30) finished first and second, respectively. 
Purdue also had the top two divers in the 3-meter competition, with Boudia setting the pace with a score of 849.70. teammate J.P. Perez finished second with a score of 792.35. 
The NCAA Championships will be held March 25-27 in Columbus, Ohio. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
NFL 
Foote back to Steelers from Lions 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — Larry Foote quickly realized how much he disliked losing. 
The inside linebacker is returning to the Pittsburgh Steelers, signing a $9.3 mil­lion, three -year contract Monday after a dishearten­ing season spent with Detroit. 
Foote started when Pittsburgh won the Super Bowl during the 2004 and 2008 seasons, but asked for his release and subsequently signed a one-year contract with his hometown Lions because he knew the Steelers planned to make Lawrence Timmons a starter. 
Foote started in Detroit, but told friends with the Steelers last season that he wearied of losing as the Lions went 2-14. 
“I’m begging — I want to get back to a winner,” Foote said while visiting the Arizona Cardinals last week. “And I’m more comfortable in a 3-4 (defense).” 
Foote knows the Steelers’ system and provides flexibil­ity at a position where defensive co-captain James Farrior is 35. If the Steelers incur any injuries, Foote could start inside and Timmons — a 2007 first ­round draft pick — could move outside. 
“I’m here for depth,” Foote said Monday. “I’m here to back up those guys, James and Lawrence, and help con­tribute to the team. I accept that role.” 
Foote, a former Michigan player who will be 30 in June, preferred to remain a starter and recently visited with the Redskins and Cardinals. He said he was ready to sign with Arizona, but did not work out terms and wound up back in Pittsburgh. He started every regular season game for the Steelers from 2004-08. 
The Steelers almost never bring back players once they have left the organization but, this month, they have signed both Foote and wide receiver Antwaan Randle El. Randle El played for Washington from 2006-09 after spending his first four NFL seasons with Pittsburgh. 
“I didn ’t think it would happen, but I’m glad to be back,” Foote said. 


Tuesday, March 16, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
MLB 

Righty Gallardo hopes to lead Brewers in future 
Marlins win depsite Volstad’s poor pitching; pitcher Ortiz stays in Dodgers’ rotation and shuts out Angels 
a hit and a run in the fourth. He 
Associated Press 
finished his day by striking out 

PHOENIX — Yovani Gallardo former Brewers prospect Matt wants to start on opening day for LaPorta. the first time. He’s making his Escobar, Milwaukee’s rookie strongest argument yet. shortstop, has had a strong 
Gallardo struck out five in four spring, too, as J.J. Hardy’s solid innings and rookie Alcides replacement after Milwaukee Escobar knocked in his ninth dealt the All-Star to Minnesota run of the spring, lifting the for Carlos Gomez. Milwaukee Brewers to a 5-4 win Escobar isn’t supposed to be over the Cleveland Indians on the hitter that Hardy was, but is Monday. 12 for 26 this spring with a 
“I think about it, I would like home run and a team-high nine to be it,” Gallardo said. “I think RBIs. it would be a great experience. “I’m just trying to put it in Just being here two years and play,” Escobar said. “I’m hitting having that opportunity means a every day and working on my lot.” swing. I don’t know if I’m going 
Gallardo is almost the forgot-to stay that hot.” ten starter in Brewers camp this Indians starter David Huff spring. The 24-year-old right-never appeared to find a hander went 13-12 with a 3.73 rhythm. ERA last season, but Huff, who is trying to win one Milwaukee’s rotation ended the of two unclaimed spots in year in shambles with a league-Cleveland’s rotation, allowed the worst 5.37 ERA among starters. leadoff hitter to score in every 
In the offseason, the Brewers inning he pitched. He finished signed left-handers Randy Wolf allowing five runs and eight hits new day.” outing. I need to keep remem-year and pitched in Japan in and Doug Davis. Jeff Suppan, in 3 1-3 innings. bering to finish everything.” 2008. Manny Parra, Dave Bush and “I left some pitches up and Marlins 5, Twins 4 The right-hander was one of Ortiz went 59-49 for the Chris Narveson are battling for they definitely capitalized on it,” Chris Volstad hurt his chances six candidates for three spots in Angels from 1999 through 2004, the final two rotation spots. said the left-hander, who went at solidifying a spot in the the Marlins’ rotation behind including 15-9 with the 2002 Brewers manager Ken Macha 11-8 last season. “All in all, it Marlins’ rotation, allowing four Josh Johnson and Ricky Nolasco. World Series championship club. hasn’t selected his opening day wasn’t a very good outing. There runs in 2 1-3 innings in Florida’s One of those spots, though, He credits his experience in starter yet, but made it a point were some good signs in there victory over the Twins on appears filled by Anibal Sanchez Japan with teaching him a dif­not to give it to Gallardo last as far as certain pitches I threw Monday. after his four scoreless innings ferent approach to pitching. year because he didn’t want to to certain guys. There were Volstad allowed five hits and against the Mets on Sunday. “I’ll take 93 or 94 (mph) on the put pressure on his budding star. more bad things than good four walks. He has given up “Anibal has looked really good corner rather than 97 right “If I get it, I get it,” Gallardo things but it was a learning eight runs on 11 hits and five and that’s a good sign,” manager down the middle,” said Ortiz, said. experience.” walks in his last two outings. Fredi Gonzalez said. who said he adjusted to more of Macha said Gallardo has been Huff said there’s a fine line in “The first few innings were Marlins prospect Mike Stanton a finesse approach because of very good this spring and that trying to balance results and good. After that a couple of had his third homer of the the tight Japanese strike zone. he’s “glad to hear” his young 
work on his mechanics while pitches were up, the breaking spring, a two-run shot in the “Japan helped me a lot.” pitcher wants to start on open-competing for a job. stuff was not quite as good,” third off Twins starter Francisco Ortiz said he drew interest ing day. “Leaving pitches up is not a Volstad said. “I just need to fin-Liriano. Liriano pitched three from several major league clubs Gallardo retired the first nine good thing,” he said. “Today was ish it a little more. innings, allowing three runs on and mentioned the New York hitters he faced before allowing one of those days. Tomorrow’s a “That’s what happened last four hits. He struck out six. Mets, Philadelphia and Tampa Liriano said he was quick to Bay. the plate his final two innings “I like California,” he said. after getting the side in order in “The Dodgers have a great the first. team.” “It didn’t give time for my arm Dodgers manager Joe Torre to catch up to my body leaving returned to the Cactus League some pitches up,” he said. after a three-game stint in The Marlins rallied from a 4-1 Taiwan. deficit. Donnie Murphy drove in Former Angels star Garret the winning run with a two-out Anderson played left field for the single in the sixth. Dodgers. He got a big ovation Volstad allowed a leadoff sin-when he came to the plate with gle in the first and walked two, two runners on in the first and including the leadoff batter, in hit a soft RBI single to center the second. He then allowed six field. of the seven batters he faced in Scott Kazmir made his first the third inning to reach, includ-spring start for the Angels and ing Jason Kubel, whose three-allowed two runs and five hits in run homer gave the Twins a 3-1 2 1-3 innings. lead. Working on a different grip on Wilson Ramos’ RBI double his slider, he walked two and three batters later made the struck out one. His spring had score 4-1. been delayed due to tightness in “It was encouraging the first his right hamstring. two innings so I’m just going to “It was tough not being able to feed off that for right now,” do my leg work,” he said. “It Volstad said. took a little more time because it Volstad slumped to 9-13 with a was my landing leg.” 

5.21 ERA last year after going 6-“There weren’t too many solid 4 with a 2.88 ERA in 15 games hits — broken bats, bloopers,” as a rookie in 2008. He allowed Kazmir said. “I’ll take that ... I three home runs in 84 1-3 was a little anxious out there.” innings in 2008 and 29 in 159 Kazmir went 10-9 overall with innings last season. He has sur-Tampa Bay and the Angels last rendered two home runs in his season. He had a sparkling 1.73 last two outings. ERA over six regular-season 
starts with the AL West champi-Dodgers 4, Angels 0 ons. 
Ramon Ortiz kept up his bid Angels right-handed setup for the fifth spot in the Dodgers’ men Fernando Rodney (shin rotation, pitching two-hit ball for pain) and Kevin Jepsen (shoul­four innings Monday in a win der tendinitis) also made their over the Los Angeles Angels. first spring appearance. 
The 37-year-old Ortiz has Rodney walked two and did thrown nine scoreless innings not allow a hit in two-thirds of this spring. He filled in for an inning. Jepsen struck out two Vicente Padilla, who threw 77 and walked one in one hitless pitches in a simulated game. inning. 
Ortiz has not pitched in the “It was good getting those guys majors since 2007 with out on the mound,” Angels man-Colorado. He was in Triple-A last ager Mike Scioscia said. 



page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, March 16, 2010 
ND SOFBTALL 

Upset victory energizes Irish to win 8 of 9 games 
p r o u d  o f  t h e  “I am thrilled for [Lux].  t e a m  t h a t  
w a y w e c a m e out in Riverside t o s t a r t t h i n g s off, and I liked  She deserves it. She is a great hitter who has most pitchers on their  promised to pr o vi d e th e t o u g h e s t competition  
the way  we  fin- heels.”  o f  N o t r e  
i s h e d  i n  L o n g  D  a  m  e  ’  s  
B e v e r s u s  a  c h s o m e  Deanna Gumpf  S B  p r  r i e  n a  g k  
great teams.”  Irish coach  schedule.  
For the first of  Senior first  
the two tourna­ b a s e m a n  

ments, the Irish traveled to Christine Lux had a game for Riverside, Calif. for the Aten the record books in Notre Construction tournament Dame’s 6-1 win over East where they defeated Ohio Tennessee State as she hit State, East Tennessee State, her 37th career home run to Cal State Northridge and host break the Irish record. The UC Riverside. record breaking continued for 
“A 10-day road trip is tough Lux as the first baseman also on anyone,” Gumpf said. “To claimed the most putouts at go in and beat a ranked oppo-first base in program history. nent, beat three teams at “I am thrilled for [Lux],” their home field and finish Gumpf said. “She deserves with three strong wins is very it. She is a great hitter who impressive. I truly believe our has most pitchers on their team can beat anyone.” heels.” 
The Irish shut out both of their remaining opponents before leaving Riverside, beating the hosts 10-0 in 5 innings before finishing with a 3-0 victory over Cal State Northridge that was high ­lighted by Valdivia’s one-hit­ter 
“Jody is performing like a leader and a veteran,” Gumpf said. “She knows how to beat teams and is doing a great job con­trolling hit ­ters.” 
freshman pitcher Brittany O’Donnell received her first collegiate loss against San Diego State, a team that has been flirting with the NCAA rankings for the first part of the season. A solo home run from senior infielder Heather Johnson gave the Irish their only run in their fifth loss of the season. The Irish attempt­ed a comeback in the seventh and left two runners on base as San Diego State record­ed the 
Later in the “It’s so crucial to have game’s final week, the some great competition out. 
Irish traveled The Irish 
before Big East starts
to Long followed up Beach, Calif. and I believe we have their loss for the Long accomplished that.” with two Beach State wins over Invitational, UNLV and 
Deanna Gumpf
where four tournament wins in five Irish coach host Long low -scoring Beach State. g a m e s Va ldi via improved their overall record struck out 10 batters and to 16 -5. A tough 2-1 loss gave up three hits in Notre against San Diego State Dame’s 4-1 victory over UNLV. ended Notre Dame’s 11-game Junior Sadie Pitzenberger’s win streak. three hits accompanied with 
The Irish defeated Buffalo hits from Erin Marrone and 1-0 in their first game of the Miller established the Irish tournament as Valdivia win. pitched a two -hitter and The Irish beat Long Beach struck out seven batters. State 4-2 with pitchers Sophomore infielder Dani Valdivia, O’Donnell and fresh­Miller’s sacrifice fly brought man Jackie Bowe all con ­in senior catcher Alexia Clay tributing to the win. for the win in the sixth -Offensively, the Irish got an inning. Later in the day, early start as an RBI from Johnson and a pair of RBIs from Miller gave the Irish a lead which they kept for the duration of the game. Though Long Beach State scored two runs in the sixth inning and had two runners on base in the seventh, the Irish defense was able to suppress any rally. 
In their final contest of the break, the Irish defeated Purdue 3-0. Fleury had two hits and scored once, and Johnson had one home run, two hits and three RBIs for the Irish. Valdivia earned her 11th straight win on the mound, struck out nine bat­ters, and pitched the first six innings of the game without letting up any Boilermaker hits. 
“It’s so crucial to have some great competition before Big East starts and I believe we have accomplished that,” Gumpf said. “We are in a great position to begin Big East and the team is well pre­pared for it.” 
Next, the Irish will travel to Kalamazoo, Mich. to play Western Michigan on Thursday to squeeze in one more away game before their 2010 season home opener against Eastern Michigan on Tuesday at Melissa Cook Stadium on Mar. 23. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame’s upset of No. 14 Ohio State early in its Spring Break trip gave the Irish the momentum to win eight of nine games in a pair of tournaments in California. 
“Playing nine games in 10 days is grueling, and I thought they did a great job,” Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. “I am 
The Irish took an early lead against Ohio State after jun­ior infielder Katie Fleury hit a home run in the fifth inning. Though junior pitcher Jody Valdivia gave up a three-run homer in the sixth inning that threatened the Irish lead, she secured the win by shutting Ohio State down in the sev­enth inning as the Irish offen­sive rally decided the game. Five runs in the seventh rounded out a 12 -5 defeat of the 


Tuesday, March 16, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Borjorquez aids Belles to end strong 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s split the final two games of its Spring Break tournament, losing the opener against Heidelberg (Ohio) 5-0 and concluding with an 8-0 trouncing of SUNY Potsdam in five innings in Florida. 
The Belles (6-4) began the day with a loss to Heidelberg where they just could not get anything going. The Berg controlled much of the game, including thrashing the Belles defense with stellar small-ball play. 
The Berg took advantage of base hits and walks to score runs as they jumped out to a 5-0 lead and never looked back. Heidelberg utilized a combination of a single, a walk, then another single to drive in a run numerous times. 
Sophomore pitcher Angela Gillis suffered her first loss of the season against Heidelberg. She went the dis­tance and ended up allowing two unearned runs while striking out two. 
The Belles rebounded in the second game against SUNY Potsdam as they awoke their previously dormant bats to finish with an 8-0 win. 
Junior outfielder Hayley Bojorquez led the Belles as she went 3-for-3 with two home runs, two runs scored and five RBIs. 

“Hayley really stepped up as a veteran and picked us up after a game we shouldn’t have lost earlier that day,” Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. “She gave us great momentum with her bat and helped us have a successful finish on our training trip.” 
Outfielders senior Ashley Peterson and sophomore Lauren Enayati also provided the Belles with offensive pro­
duction. Peterson was 4-for-4 and added an RBI and a run scored while Enayati went 3-for-3 with a stolen base and also a run scored. 
Sophomore pitcher Monica Palicki threw a stellar game, striking out six 
“Hayley really stepped up as a veteran and picked us up after a game we shouldn’t have lost earlier that day.” 
Erin Sullivan Belles coach 

and allowing just one hit to the game’s first batter. 
Saint Mary’s hopes to con­tinue its recent success as it next takes on Goshen in a game that will be the Belles’ first outside of Florida, where they began the season. The trip allowed the Belles to make adjustments and learn about themselves for the upcoming games. 
“I am so impressed with the progress we made,” Sullivan said. “I want to see the whole team bring that energy and passion we found on our trip to our remaining games.” 
The Belles will face a hot Goshen team that won four of its last five games in the Spring Break trip in Florida. The Maple Leafs (5-5) used two shutouts and 31 runs to propel them to break even at .500 to conclude the break. Goshen’s record does not speak for how it has been 
playing recently, and the Belles will need to jump out early to take command. 
“Our prepa­ration for Goshen was more based on making adjustments from our games last week,” 
Sullivan said. “We spent some time on the things we needed to do better and I’m hoping to see us respond to these changes and jump to an early lead.” 
Saint Mary’s hopes to con­tinue their success against the Maple Leafs as they trav­el to take on Goshen in a dou­bleheader Tuesday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Irish begin outdoor season in Puerto Rico 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
The No. 3 Irish spanned two vastly different locales en route to a 2-1 record over Spring Break. 
After defeating Indiana at home, the Irish (12-2) split a pair of matches in Puerto Rico, defeating William & Mary and losing to No. 7 Duke in the squad’s first outdoor matches of the season. 
The team opened the break with a dominating 7-0 victory over in-state rival Indiana in what will likely be the team’s last indoor match of the season. The Irish dropped only one doubles match while still pulling out the doubles point. The Irish were propelled by a dominating 6-0, 6-1 victory in first singles from national No. 14 sophomore Kristy Frilling over Indiana freshman Leslie Hureau. Frilling won 10 straight games to start the match and the Irish never looked back. 
“It’s our last indoor match, so we’re happy to finish with a win,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. “We played much better in the doubles, and that really gave us a boost going into the singles. Indiana is a tough team. They beat a ranked team in Tennessee the week before so we knew they would be tough.” 
Coming off the defeat of the Hoosiers, Notre Dame made a huge transition, traveling to Puerto Rico for the first outdoor matches of the season. 
Louderback said the new playing environment challenged his team. 
“The biggest thing about getting outdoors is that the rest of the schedule is outdoors,” Louderback said. “There was a lot of rain, so there wasn’t as much time for hit­ting as we wanted. It’s important to get outdoors, but I feel like we were still adjusting as we left the trip.” 
Notre Dame opened up strong by defeating William & Mary 5-2. 
“Our first one is always the toughest one,” Louderback said. “The sky was overcast, though, so we didn’t have a lot of elements to deal with. We switched our dou­bles around and played much bet­ter. It didn’t feel like our first match outside because we adjust­ed better than we did against Duke.” 
Against the No. 7 Duke, the defending national champion, a defeat of Frilling in first singles set the tone in a 5-2 Irish loss. After sweeping the doubles matches, the Irish lost five of six singles matches. Senior Cosmina Ciobanu was the only winner. 
“Playing a good team from the south outdoors when it’s early in the season is tough,” Louderback. “It was sunny and there was a lot of wind to deal with. I think we had some trouble with it.” 
The Irish will look to get back in the win column when they travel to take on Vanderbilt Friday. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 


page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, March 16, 2010 
Jackson 
continued from page 24 
Saturday night brought more scoring woes for the Irish, along with porous goaltending. Johnson gave up four goals in the first period, while only making five shots. Jackson said the freshman was hindered by a knee injury suffered the night before. 
“[Johnson] got hurt and I still started him on Saturday,” Jackson said. “I probably shouldn’t have started him. I don’t think he was physically ready for that.” 
Junior wing Calle Ridderwall cut the deficit to three early in the second period with his 19th goal of the season, but the Buckeyes added two more to their tally before the end of the period. Senior Tom O’Brien did his best to protect the net for Notre Dame over the last two periods, allowing four goals while making 12 saves. 
“It was kind of tough because our team actually came out buzzing pretty good and had a number of scoring chances in the first 10 minutes,” Jackson said. “Then they came down and scored on the first shot, which is pretty disheartening for a team.” 
Senior wing Christiaan Minella added a goal for the Irish in the third period, but by then it was too little, too late. 
In the two games, the Irish went a combined 1-for-12 on the power play, compared to a 2-for-5 performance by Ohio State. 
“I don’t care how good the goaltending is. At some point you have to finish,” Jackson said. “You always have to cred­it the opposing goaltender, but the thing is, we have to find ways to score goals. It’s been our M.O. all season long.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
TRACK & FIELD 

Two runners advance to NCAAChampionships 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
The past two weekends brought much excitement for the Irish as six athletes became provisional qualifiers for the NCAA Indoor Championships and two actu­
championship appe ara nce ranked No. 15 nationally after winning the Big East’s 800 -meter indoor title this year. He advanced to the finals after a fifth-place finish in the pre­liminaries with a time of 
1:49.52. He ended the two-week stretch of races with seventh place in the men’s 800 final with a time of 1:49.48, earn­ing his first All -America 
special experi­ence,” Howard said. 
Senior sprinter Joanna Schultz also went to the preliminaries, where she finished 11th in the women’s 400 at 53.58. 
Prior to the preliminaries, the Irish had six athletes qualify provisionally, which means they posted times or distances that would have qualified for nationals if oth­ers hadn’t topped them. On March 5, senior Eric Quick came in first for the men’s long jump at 7.21 meters. 
Senior long distance runner Jake Walker finished third in the men’s 5000 with a time of 13:55.08, creating a new per­sonal best by nine seconds. 
“This season has been my best so far. I am finally com-
ally advanced 

“Becoming an
to the champi­

onships in All-American has Fayetteville, always been a big goalArk. 
of mine.” 
Senior sprinter Jack Howard came Jack Howard into his first Irish sprinter 

sional qualifiers. Shultz fin­ished fourth at 54.37 in the women ’s 400, and junior sprinter Kelly Langhans fin­ished eighth in the women’s 800 with a time of 2:08.58. Howard finished seventh in the men’s 800 at 1:48.85 and 

award. “This season has been 
“Becoming my best so far. I am an All ­
fnally completely
American has always been a healthy after dealing big goal of with injuries.” mine, so to finally be able 
Jake Walker 
to achieve that was a pretty Irish runner pletely healthy after dealing with injuries. Running the pro vis ion al time for a 5k meant a lot, but it meant a lot more for me to break fourteen min­utes,” Walker said. 
The follow ­ing day of the invitational brought four more provi ­
senior long dis­tance runner Daniel Clark finished fifth in the men’s 1600 at 4:01.57. 
As a team, the Irish ended their season achieving their goal of winning the Big East indoor meet. 
“I think the biggest differ­ence for our team this year has been in 
our depth. In 
the past, we relied on three or four people to carry the load,” Howard said. “This year we have a whole bunch of people in just about every event who are stepping up and who can contribute.” 
The Irish begin the outdoor season at the Arizona State and Stanford Invitational meets March 26-27. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
Brey 
continued from page 24 
the South region, and Notre Dame will play in New Orleans against Old Dominion. 
“I think it was really power­ful how we finished,” Irish coach Mike Brey said Sunday. “We’re really proud of that. I think it says a lot about what this group did to put us in that position.” 
The team knew after its suc­cess at the end of the season that it would most likely make the Tournament, but getting a No. 6 seed was unexpected. 
“I thought we were in the eight or nine range, but to see us get a six, that’s ers, and Harangody had 10 points off the bench. 
Notre Dame never trailed by more than five in the first half. In the second half, West Virginia led by 10 with 5:23 to go, but two 3-pointers from Hansbrough helped cut the lead to three. 
“I mean, we lost to the sixth-ranked team in the country by two points and had a shot to win it,” Hansbrough said after the game. “It just shows how far this team has come.” 
Notre Dame fully utilized its new slow offense to beat Pittsburgh 50-45 in the quar­terfinals Thursday. Notre Dame only led by two with 
1:41 left, but Harangody drew a foul after he 
tremendous,” H a r a n g o d y said. “It just goes towards what we did at the end of  “I think it was really powerful how we fnished. We’re really proud of that.”  r e b o u n d e d J e r m a i n e Dixon’s layup and sank both free throws to extend the lead  
the season, what these guys did.”  Mike Brey Irish coach  to four. He and Jackson both had 12 points  
The  Irish  in the game.  
made it to the  Jackson said  
Big East semi- after the game  
final  before  that  he  liked  

losing 53-51 on Friday to West the slow style of play Notre Virginia (27-6, 13-5), which Dame had adapted. earned a No. 2 seed in the “It gives guys great shots, East region. Notre Dame open shots. A lot of teams trailed for the entire second don’t want to guard for the half but whittled down the whole 30, 35 seconds,” he deficit slowly. Irish senior said. “So it kind of wears guard Tory Jackson attempted them down. And if you are a 3-pointer with five seconds knocking shot after shot down left, but missed. like that, some teams will lay 
“Boy, we made a run at it,” down.” Brey said after the game. After a first-round bye, “And to have a shot, it was Notre Dame dispatched Seton kind of a weird game. We Hall, 68-56, in the second were in a hole. But to dig out round of the tournament and have a look, it was pretty Wednesday. Harangody had good.” 20 points and 10 rebounds, 
Senior guard Ben again off the bench. Hansbrough led the Irish with “The last couple of days of 17 points and hit four 3-point-practice have been great for me just to get back in the flow,” Harangody said. “Kind of get my conditioning back up to where it has been.” 
The Irish missed the Tournament last season but earned bids each of the previ­ous two years. This year, the team’s confidence is high. 
“I think the way we play, we can beat anybody in the coun­try,” Hansbrough said. “And I think we kind of proved that and it got us to where we were. I mean, we were not even in the Tournament and all of a sudden being a six seed in the matter of three weeks, two and a half weeks, stuff like that? It really bounced us back and got our confidence going.” 
The gap between the confer­ence and the selection was rough: Bad weather cancelled the flight to South Bend, so the team took a 13-hour bus ride back to campus. 
“That’s how we connect as a team, you know,” Jackson said. “We teased each other. We played around with each other.” 
Because of the seed and region, Notre Dame was one of the last teams announced, allowing some tension to creep into the Purcell Pavilion where the team watched the selection show. 
“To be honest,” Jackson said, “if I would have took off my shirt and squeezed it out, I probably could have filled a bucket.” 
But the Irish made it, and now look forward to Old Dominion Thursday. 
“You know, I think we’re a very confident team that can’t wait to play,” Brey said. “I’m glad we play Thursday instead of Friday so we get back out on the court. We feel we’re playing pretty well.” 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

Tuesday, March 16, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, March 16, 2010 
Big East 
continued from page 24 
defense, pulling the score as close as 21-20 late in the half. Notre Dame was able to keep it close by winning the turnover battle 17-11. 
Notre Dame was only down 25­22 at the break, but the close game was not to last. 
The Huskies dominated the boards down the stretch, winning the rebounding battle 44-34 over the course of the game. 
Senior center Tina Charles paced Connecticut with 16 points and 17 rebounds, while senior guard Kalana Greene chipped in 15 points of her own. 
The leading scorer for the Irish, and the only one in double fig­ures, was freshman guard Skylar Diggins, who had 10 points and two assists. 
The loss to Connecticut marks the third time this year the Irish have lost to the Huskies, with the previous losses coming with deficits of 24 and 25 points. This game was the closest thus far, with the deficit being only 15 points. 
Placed on opposite sides of the NCAA Tournament bracket, Notre Dame and Connecticut would not play again this year unless they both made it to the national championship game. The Irish earned a No. 2 seed and will open the NCAA Tournament at home against No. 15-seed Cleveland State Sunday. 
“I was joking with Coach, we’re 

Break 
continued from page 24 
over two minutes remaining sent the contest to overtime. The Dragons scored with just 22 sec­onds remaining in the first over­time, ending the game and hand­ing Notre Dame its first loss of the season. The Irish dominance on the stat sheet was of little consolation. 
“It’s not about statistics, it’s about finding ways to win,” Corrigan said. “We didn’t make the adjustments we needed to make when playing a hot goalie.” 
Sophomore midfielder Max Pfeifer led Notre Dame with a career-best four goals. Senior midfielder Grant Krebs added one more, as did Earl. Hicks assisted on two goals, extending his point streak to 21 games, a run that leads the Irish. 
During the trip, three Irish sen­iors — Krebs, defenseman Sam Barnes and goalkeeper Scott Rodgers — were named to the watch list for the Tewaaraton Trophy, given to the best colle­giate lacrosse players. 
After the tight loss at Drexel, the Irish had three days to travel to Houston to face Fairfield in the first NCAA Division I game in that city in four decades. Though the weather was warm, Notre Dame’s winning ways were cold, and the Irish dropped their sec­ond game in a row for the first time in just over two years by the score of 10-8. Notre Dame did itself no favors by allowing the Stags to jump out to a 4-0 lead in the first quarter. The Irish scored twice in the second quarter but allowed another three goals to face a 7-2 deficit at halftime. 
Hicks tallied two goals to open the third quarter, but Fairfield responded with two of its own to take a five-goal lead into the final period. Notre Dame, however, cut the lead to two with nine minutes left behind a goal from Earl and two from Krebs, but fell short as each team scored once in the final minute of the game. The Irish lost another 20-game probably one of the best pre­pared teams going into the tour­nament having played Connecticut three times this year,” Diggins said. 
Despite the loss to Connecticut, the Irish still put up strong show­ings against Louisville (14-17, 5­
11) and St. John’s (24-6, 12-4), two teams they struggled against in the regular season. 
In the win over Louisville in the second round of the tournament, Notre Dame got a very welcome contribution from senior center Erica Williamson, who chipped in for 16 points. 
“The great thing was Erica Williamson,” McGraw said. “Secondleading scorer in the Big East tournament. [Junior for­ward] Devereaux Peters, third-leading scorer. That was exciting for me to see because it just means how much better of a team we are when you take your [senior guards] Ashley Barlow, Lindsay Schrader and [Melissa] Lechlitner and you know they’re going to be ready, now you know more people are going to be ready.” 
After defeating Louisville, the Irish took on St. John’s in the quarterfinals, avenging a loss earlier this year with the win. 
The Irish were led by Diggins’ 21 points and 13 points from Peters, who had 11 points in the second half alone. 
Notre Dame’s NCAA-opener will begin Sunday at 2:30 p.m. in the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
streak when Fairfield was the first team in 21 contests to score at least 10 goals against Notre Dame. 
The Irish again dominated the stat sheet but not the scoring line, taking 42 shots to the Stags’ 23 and winning 14 of 20 face offs in the game. Hicks’ hat trick led the Irish offensively while Krebs and Earl each had three-point performances. The two losses revealed some weaknesses, especially on the offensive end. 
“We’re in too much of a hurry and not selective enough. We’ve got to be consistent,” Corrigan said. “Defense is a matter of minor adjustments.” 
Those adjustments were installed on Monday during the team’s first practice in brand-new Arlotta Stadium on Monday in preparation for the team’s clash with Denver (3-3) Wednesday. Notre Dame will have to convert more of its shots in order to win as well as find better team communication on offense. The Pioneers are coached by Bill Tierney, who won six national championships at Princeton. 
“They have a lot of very cre­ative offensive guys and they’re very well coached,” Corrigan said. “They play solid defense and are all-around a very good team.” 
Notre Dame has also slipped from No. 3 to No. 13 in the national rankings, providing one more motivator for the Irish. 
The Notre Dame squad is also excited to play its first meaning­ful game in Arlotta Stadium, especially considering the rela­tively warm conditions, Corrigan said. 
“It’s a beautiful venue,” Corrigan said. “I hope we get a lot of people out because it’s a great place to watch a game.” 
The Irish look to snap their two-game losing streak and begin climbing up the rankings again when they face Denver this afternoon at 4 p.m. at Arlotta Stadium. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
trip with a four-game set at the Irish Baseball Classic in San 
Schrage 
Antonio, Texas. The Irish 
opened up the tournament with 
continued from page 24 
a 10-6 victory over Bradley (4­Schrage said. “When that hap-6). Senior leftfielder Ryan pens, you get a lot of fly outs.” Connolly belted a solo home 
Notre Dame run and con-salvaged the tributed 3 RBIs final game of to pace the 
the tourna­ment against host Stetson, as junior  “I still think pitching is the strength of our team.”  offense. The Irish fell to Pacific (10-5) the following  
pitcher Brian  day  8-4,  but  
Dupra limited the Hatters (8-8) to just  Dave Schrage Irish coach  Dupra played the role of stop­per against  
one  earned  Gonzaga (7-7)  
run  over  once  again  to  

seven innings en route to a 4-2 propel Notre Dame into the title victory. Senior outfielder game. Dupra turned in a career Brayden Ashdown and fresh­man second baseman Frank DeSico each had a pair of hits, while junior catcher Cameron McConnell added a two-run single. 
“I still think pitching is the strength of our team, so we need to start pitching more innings, pitch deeper into games so we don’t have to tax our bullpen,” Schrage said. “I think sometimes there’s no control over that, but it’s taxing on your bullpen if you’re going to your bullpen in the fourth, fifth or sixth inning.” 
The Irish next traveled to Edinburg, Texas for a two-game series against Texas-Pan American, but were unable to carry the momentum. Notre Dame fell to the Broncos (7-3) 9-7 and 10-4 in consecutive days, as the starting pitching failed to keep the game within reach. 
“We just need to get some of those guys to get us into the seventh inning,” Schrage said. “Their arms are at a point where they should be able to do that, get up to around 90 pitches, and hopefully 90 pitch­es will be enough to get us through seven innings.” 
Notre Dame rounded out the start and the best performance by a starter all season, holding the Bulldogs to two earned runs over 7 innings while fanning 8 in a 6-3 win. 
Senior first baseman Casey Martin continued his torrid hit­ting, emerging as Notre Dame’s biggest threat at the plate. Martin jacked a three-home run in the first to give the Irish a lead they would not relin­quish. 
Falling in the championship game in a rematch against Pacific 3-2, the Irish hope to improve their record to .500 in the home opener Saturday against Michigan State. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 


Tuesday, March 16, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 





JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Tuesday, March 16, 2010 page 24 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Showing some swagger 
Irish make it to Big East semis but lose to WVU 
By BILL BRINK 
Senior Staff Writer 
A month ago Notre Dame was 6-8 in conference play, senior forward Luke Harangody was in street clothes and another trip to the NIT seemed imminent. 
But that was before Notre Dame beat Pittsburgh and Georgetown, both in the top 15 at the time, before it beat Connecticut on Senior Night, before junior forward Carleton Scott hit a game-tying 3 at the buzzer at Marquette to allow the Irish to win in overtime and before the Irish won two Big East tournament games last week. 

The six-game win streak was enough to give Notre Dame (23-11, 10-8) a No. 6 seed in the NCAA Tournament, which begins Thursday. The selection committee placed the Irish in PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Senior guard Tory Jackson gesticulates after a score during the Irish’s 65-56 win over Seton see BREY/page 20 Hall in the Big East tournament. The Irish lost in the semi-finals to West Virginia 53-51. 

BASEBALL 
Irish post six losses in road trip 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
While the rest of the student body dreads the end of Spring Break, the return to campus could not have come sooner for the Irish. Notre Dame compiled a 3-6 record during the nine-game road trip that featured seven different teams across two states. 
The Irish (7-8) jumped to early leads against Harvard (3-4) and Kansas State (13-2), but were unable to maintain their consis­tency at the plate, falling to the Crimson 9-6 and the Wildcats 5­2 in the first two games of the Stetson Tournament in DeLand, Fla. 
“We hit some homeruns early in the season and sometimes the team gets the tendency thinking they need to hit homeruns to score runs,” Irish coach Dave 
see SCHRAGE/page 22 


MEN’S LACROSSE 

Squadlosestwoofthreeoverbreak,looktoearncoach200thwin 
when the Irish host Denver and David Earl paced Notre went up for good with just under straight regular season win, the 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
tonight in their first regular-sea-Dame with three goals each, 10 minutes remaining in the con-then-No.3 Irish traveled to 
Sports Writer 

son game in brand-new Arlotta while senior attack Neal Hicks test on Earl’s third goal. The per-Philadelphia to take on then-No. Stadium. deposited two goals and an formances of Earl and 20 Drexel. In a tense overtime Big crowds, overtime thrillers, Notre Dame’s Spring Break trip assist. Earl also had an assist in a Brenneman earned both recogni-contest, the Dragons prevailed 7­player honors and warm weath-began with a trip to Baltimore to career day. tion; Brenneman was selected to 6 despite being out-shot 42-30 by er — Notre Dame experienced all play in the third game of the The Greyhounds led 3-2 at the Inside Lacrosse’s team of the Notre Dame. The Dragons took of the above over its Spring Konica Minolta Face-Off Classic end of the first quarter before week, while Earl was named to the lead 16 seconds after the Break trip. at M&T Bank Stadium, the home the Irish put forth a 3-0 second the Big East honor roll. opening faceoff, but the Irish set 
The Irish (3-2) dropped two of of the NFL’s Ravens. Notre Dame quarter. The Notre Dame lead “We actually made a lot of the tone for a tight contest by three on the trip, however, and defeated No. 10 Loyola, 11-9, did not last long, however, as plays, but we didn’t really play answering four minutes later. look to avoid dropping to .500 on before 19,742 fans to give the Loyola scored three times in the that well,” Corrigan said. “We got The game was tied 4-4 at half-the season. Irish coach Kevin Irish their third consecutive vic-first five minutes of the second a great win over a very good time and a Drexel goal with just Corrigan has a chance to notch tory to open the season. Junior half. The rest of the game was team.” his 200th win at Notre Dame midfielders Zach Brenneman back-and-forth until the Irish After Notre Dame’s 20th see BREAK/page 22 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Team falls to UConn in semis 
By JARED JEDICK 
Senior Staff Writer 
No. 6 Notre Dame made a strong showing in the Big East tournament, rolling over Louisville 89-52 and avenging a regular season loss to No. 17 St. John’s with a 75-67 win before running into the brick wall that is the undefeated No. 1 Connecticut squad for the third time this year, losing 59-44. 
“Defensively we played really well,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “I was really happy with the defense, I thought we rebounded pretty well.” 
The Irish (27-5, 12-4) managed to play a close game with Connecticut (33-0, 16-0) during the first half thanks to that 
see BIG EAST/page 22 

HOCKEY 
NotreDamegetsswept out of CCHA tourney 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
A two-game sweep at Ohio State last weekend ended any Irish dreams of being Cinderella in the CCHA Tournament. The 3-1, 8-2 losses ended Notre Dame’s season, the first time the Irish have not played in the NCAA Tournament since 2006. 
Notre Dame (13-17-8, 9-12­7-2) finished ninth in the CCHA regular season, just four points behind the eighth-place Buckeyes (14-16-6, 10­12-6-4). 
In the first game of the series on March 5, Ohio State struck first with a goal early in the second period. Sophomore wing Richard Ryan evened the score seven minutes into the third period, but the Buckeyes got two more shots past Irish fresh­man goaltender Mike Johnson for the 3-1 victory. 
“I thought Friday night we played fairly well early on, and we definitely had a lot of scoring chances,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “Their goaltender played well, and they capitalized in the third period which we couldn’t. When it’s all said and done, we out-chanced them pretty well, and still couldn’t score.” 
see JACKSON/page 20 





