the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


ND mourns Walton’s death 
Basilica’s director of music leaves impact on students, colleagues 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
Assistant News Editor 
Dr. Gail Walton, director of music at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, will be remem­bered as a dedicated musician, teacher and Catholic who touched the lives of many mem­bers of the Notre Dame commu­nity. 
Walton, an organist and direc­tor of two Notre Dame choirs, died last week after a long ill­ness. She was 55. 
“This was not a job. This was a passion and her life,” Fr. Peter Rocca, rector of the Basilica of the Sacred Heart, said. “Her impact was tremendous. She touched the lives of so many stu­dents.” 
Senior Jordan Schank said when he first auditioned for the Liturgical Choir, he was an intimidated freshman with no choir experience. 
“I know Gail could see my shaking knees. I don’t think I have ever felt so intimidated by a woman in high heels before,” he said. “She took note of my nerv­ousness and she did her best to calm me down.” 

With Walton’s help and encour­agem ent , Schank said he was able to learn the challenging music and Walton improve his singing dramatically. 


“I can with full faith say that Gail taught me everything I know about singing,” Schank said. “She took a young, inexpe­rienced freshman with terrible Midwestern vowels and formed me into the confident singer I am today.” 
Bishop Daniel Jenky of Peoria, Ill., was the homilist at Walton’s funeral and spoke to a standing room-only congregation at the Basilica Tuesday morning about Walton’s impact on the Notre Dame community. 
“Year after year, season after season, the walls of this place have echoed with the glory and sensitivity of Gail’s music,” he said. “At Notre Dame moments of joy and sorrow, Gail made great music that lifted our spir­its. 
“Today, the Basilica is filled with only a few of an army of her many friends who loved her.” 
Walton directed the Liturgical Choir and the Basilica Schola, which she also founded. She assisted with music at a number of University liturgical events, such as opening mass, Junior Parents Weekend mass and Commencement mass, Rocca said. 
Walton also touched the lived of countless couples as they pre­
see WALTON/page 6 



Campus strives to end the ‘R’ word 
By CAITLYN KALSCHEUR 
News Writer 
“End the ‘R’ Word Day” is returning to campus for its sec­ond year to raise public aware­ness about the social prejudice faced by people with intellectual disabilities, now with celebrity endorsements and a national platform. 
“The point of the campaign is to educate the public, not to take away the rights of free speech,” said junior Soeren Palumbo, the campaign’s co-founder. “The word ‘retarded’ has a profound effect on people with intellectual disabilities and should be eliminated by social consensus, not by a legal means.” 

With Notre Dame’s service-oriented mentality, Palumbo said he hopes Notre Dame will be a leader in the campaign. 
“Notre Dame has an unprece­dented service orientation toward people with disabilities, and people here want to make the world a better place for peo­ple with intellectual disabilities,” Palumbo said, “I want Notre Dame to be the jewel in the crown of this year’s events.” 
The official event began last year at the Special Olympics Winter Games when Palumbo and a Yale student came up with the idea to create an event to draw media attention and educate the public on the word 

see WORD/page 6 




BasketballregistrationendsFri. 
Bookstore tournament hopes for record-breaking participation 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer Hallelulah Holla Back, 2009 Bookstore Basketball champions,compete in a tournament game last spring. 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
Bookstore Basketball, the world’s largest outdoor five­on-five basketball tourna­ment, is just around the corner, and the tourna­ment’s organizers are hop­ing to break their own record by garnering even more teams to play than last year’s 650. 
Registration for the open and women’s tournaments ends Friday at 5 p.m., but the main goal of the tourna­ment’s executive staff is to 
see BOOKSTORE/page 4 


Chilean student shares stories from earthquake 

AP 
Volunteers help load relief supplies into boxes at the airport in 
Santiago, Chile, Tuesday. 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
For Notre Dame junior and Santiago native Rodolfo DisiPavlic, the hours after an 8.8-magnitude earthquake ravaged his home country were a frantic experience. 
“I found out at 9 a.m. [5 a.m. in Chile] on Saturday when I tried to check the news sites from Chile and they were all down,” said DisiPavlic, who is currently studying abroad in Bologna, Italy. “Right after I found out, I tried to call every­one’s cell phones with no luck. Then I called my mom’s home phone and she answered. 
“Although it didn’t take me too long to reach her, I had never felt [so] desperate in my whole life.” 
DisiPavlic said his family was fortunate not to be near the epicenter of the earth­quake when it hit. 
“At the moment of the earth­quake, my mom was in Santiago, and my dad and sib­lings were in Pucón,” he said. “None of them were close to the epicenter, but a month ago my mom was camping with my brothers in Curanipe, a coastal town that was obliterated by the tsunami.” 
Since Santiago was not hit as 
see CHILE/page 4 



Saint Mary’s announces Commencementspeaker 
Observer Staff Report 
Marine biologist Sylvia Earle will deliver the 2010 Commencement address and receive an honorary doctor of humanities degree from Saint Mary’s. Author Lois Lowry will also be receiving an hon­orary doctor of humanities degree at the ceremony. 
“It will be an honor to wel­come Sylvia Earle and Lois Lowry to our campus, ” College President Carol Ann Mooney said in a press release. 
According to the release, Earle has spent over 6,000 hours underwater. The New York Times labeled her “Her Deepness.” She led the first all-female team of aquanauts in 1970 and holds the record for the deepest solo dive. 
In September 2009, she published the book “The World Is Blue: How Our Fate and the Oceans Are One,” which discusses the need to protect oceans and the work people need to do to keep them clean. 
“Dr. Earle is a passionate 
see SPEAKER/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Speaker for Hesburgh lecture announced page 3  Figure skating fashion page 12  Men’s basketball preview page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Wednesday, March 3, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Keep on fighting 

While almost every student at Notre Dame stepped onto campus as a fresh­man with a long list of extracurricular activities they excelled in during their high school years, not all of us had the time or the quick tongue necessary to join the Debate Club. Regardless, Notre Dame stu­dents love to debate, and this is never more evident than when one reads the Viewpoint section Chris Allen of this paper. 

Many lament Sports Wire Viewpoint wars as 
Editor 

a silly way to argue about important issues, but I take a different, more positive view on these week-long (and sometimes month-long) arguments. As my academic advisor Dr. Steve Brady told me when we discussed my involvement at The Observer, “It wouldn’t be Notre Dame if people weren’t angry about something.” Viewpoint wars are extremely impor­tant to the Notre Dame community and should be celebrated as such. 
Whether we are arguing about ridiculous things like Swedish meat­balls or important economic issues like wages of University workers, the Viewpoint gives us an important venue to engage each other in intellectual and structured debate. In the recent debate over wages, undergraduates, graduates, alumni and professors alike have chimed in with their opinions. This type of living, breathing dialogue has broken down the barrier that is so frequently observed in college lecture halls where the students are on the receiving end of the pedagogical process but offer minimal contribu­tions. In the Viewpoint section, the freshman student and the tenured professor are on an equal playing field, where the community will absorb their words all the same. 
The Viewpoint section also repre­sents perhaps the most important and most basic agent of change on cam­pus. The Observer is read across cam­pus, but except for the Viewpoint the platform is reserved for writers like myself. By necessity, the Viewpoint is the first step for most students who are looking to initiate change. The University is a big place, with a lot of offices, a lot of departments, and a lot of people. Writing a letter to the news­paper where, with luck, it will be pub­lished and read and contemplated by thousands of people is the easiest and most approachable way of initiating change. At the very least it is more attractive than cutting through the bureaucracy of a big university. 
So let’s relish the opportunity to debate on the pages of Viewpoint. While we’re at it, let’s acknowledge a few general rules. The people that you are arguing with are fellow Domers, so keep that in the back of your mind. The pages of the Observer are above playground-style name-calling and belittlement of one’s ideas, so keep it 
civil. With that said, long live Viewpoint, and keep on fighting, Irish. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DID YOU GIVE UP FOR LENT? HAVE YOU STUCK WITH IT? 








Katie Allare  Andrew Geist  Brianna Hohman  Jack Goonan  Pat McIntyre  Johnny Kerrigan  
sophomore Howard  graduate student off-campus  sophomore Walsh  junior O’Neill  freshman Dillon  junior O’Neill  
“I gave up sweets and Facebook. Facebook didn’t last.”  “Car magazines, and yes, I stuck with it.”  “I gave up chocolate and peanut butter. I’m addicted to peanut butter but I haven’t  “Sky diving, and I’m sufficiently not sky diving these days.”  “I haven’t given anything up.”  “I don’t think you can print what I gave up for Lent.”  
had either.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

EILEEN VEIHMEYER/The Observer Best Buddies at Notre Dame Club leaders Chris Rhodenbaugh and Courtney Isaak sell t-shirts in the LaFortune Student Center on Tuesday. The t-shirts were sold for “End the ‘R’ Word Day.” 
OFFBEAT 
Newlywed Mass. couple spends first night in jail 
HYANNIS, Mass. – A newlywed Massachusetts couple spent their wedding night in separate jail cells after police said the bride tried to run over an old flame of the groom. 
Police say 22-year-old Hyannis resident Marissa Ann Putignano-Keene tried Monday to run over the other woman and the woman's son in a parking lot. The intended victim later told police that she had previously been in an intimate relationship with the groom. 
Police say the couple got married at Barnstable Town Hall and split a bot­tle of Champagne after­ward. 

Man shoots up hotel room, places clock in microwave 
ALBION, Mich. – Authorities said an overnight hotel guest who claimed a divine calling has been jailed after shooting up his room and placing an alarm clock in the microwave. Police say the 53-year-old Dearborn Heights man surrendered about 8:30 a.m. Sunday at the Albion Inn, about 85 miles west of Detroit. He was being held in the Calhoun County Jail pending arraign­ment and mental evaluation. 
The Jackson Citizen Patriot said the man shot the bed, window, walls and ceil­ing of his room, where he left a note that read: "God delivered me from evil and placed me in Albion, Michigan." 
No injuries were reported. The man's name was not released. 
He faces possible charges including felonious assault, possession of a firearm while committing a felony, destruc­tion of property and reckless discharge of a firearm. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday 

IN BRIEF 
An exhibition, “All Art is Propaganda,” will be held in the Special Collections Room of the Hesburgh Library today from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. The exhibition is composed of materials from the Special Collections and will continue until Aug. 20. The exhibit is free and open to the public. 
Joan Frank, the 2010 Sullivan Prize Winner in Fiction Writing, will read from her book, “In Envy Country,” and sign books at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore tonight from 7:30 p.m. to 9 p.m. The event is free and open to the public. 
A colloquium, “Magnetic Dopants Charge Carriers in Colloidal II-VI Semiconductor Nanocrystals,” will be held today from 4 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. in 118 Nieuwland Science Hall. The event is free and open to the public. 
The Notre Dame Fire Department will hold an open house Thursday from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. and 2:30 p.m. to 
4:30 p.m. This year marks the 130th anniversary of the oldest university fire department in the nation. Notre Dame faculty and staff are invited. 
“Children’s Theater: Tomie dePaola’s ‘Strega Nona’” will be held Friday at 10 a.m. at the Decio Mainstage Theater in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The public is welcome and tickets can be purchased online at performingarts.nd.edu or at the Ticket Office. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Saturday Sunday 


Atlanta 47 / 29 Boston 36 / 31 Chicago 37 / 27 Denver 52 / 34 Houston 64 / 41 Los Angeles 63 / 47 Minneapolis 37 / 17 New York 37 / 31 Philadelphia 38 / 33 Phoenix 75 / 54 Seattle 57 / 40 St. Louis 44 / 26 Tampa 55 / 48 Washington 43 / 36 
Wednesday, March 3, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 




Council discusses FLEX, du Lac recommendations 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR) pre­sented a new initiative for the Freshmen Leadership Experience (FLEX) and dis­cussed ongoing recommenda­tions for revisions to the du Lac student handbook at its meeting Tuesday night. 
The FLEX committee pre­sented its draft of a student booklet that will be mailed to incoming University freshmen over the summer before they arrive on campus in the fall. 
The committee said the booklet, which it compiled based on research and feed­back from the current fresh­man class, is intended to give the Class of 2014 information about campus they might not be able to find anywhere else. 
The booklet would feature specific details about loca­tions on campus, rankings of on-campus and off-campus eateries, and walking times from one campus location to another. 
Student body president Grant Schmidt said the cur ­thing you get in the mail as an incoming freshmen is gold 
— you read it cover to cover.” 
Schmidt said it is possible the information will be posted online so students can poten­tially have links to the various organizations listed in the 
booklet. Many COR members as being concerns of University students. 

“We came up with nine con­crete recommendations and so far, four of the recommen­dations were passed in [Campus Life Council] at their meeting this week,” Schmidt said. 
CLC officials recommended that du Lac clarify the use of the word “shall” in its rulings and more specifically define policies for off-campus activi­ties. CLC also recommended the continued use of service hours as a sanction. 
Schmidt said clarification in wording was needed when addressing the accountability of the student in off-campus situations. 
“Right now it’s hard for stu­dents to understand what policies they are accountable for adhering when they are off campus,” he said. “The Indiana law doesn ’t apply when students are out of the state of Indiana or abroad. We recommended that the new wording say that stu­dents are responsible for complying with the laws of the state or the country in which they are residing.” 
Schmidt said CLC recom­mended the wording of du Lac be changed from “shall” to “may” when talking about punishments. 
“The term ‘shall’ didn’t allow for a lot of flexibility for the Office of Residence Life [and Housing,]” he said. 
The remaining five recom­mendations, which include recommending a medical amnesty policy, will be debat­ed when CLC resumes after Spring Break. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 
rent proposal is “Right now it’s hard said they to make revi -for students to believed it sions to the would be more 
understand what
existing draft effective to mail and then send policies they are the booklet as it as a booklet accountable for initially pro ­to students posed. 
adhering when they
over the sum-Schmidt said 
are off campus.” 
mer. everything is in 
“Technically the planning this is informa-Grant Schmidt stages, but if tion that could the FLEX com-
student body president
be found other places,” Schmidt said. “But there is no central location where this can all be found, and any­mittee decides 
on mailing the booklet as opposed to creat­ing a Web site, he hopes to include the booklet in one of the initial mailings the Class of 2014 will receive this sum­mer. 
Since the FLEX booklet is still in the initial phases, stu­dent body vice president Cynthia Weber recommended that members of COR present the current draft to their indi­vidual councils. 
“This is a good thing for you guys to show your respective groups because not only is it fun to read, but you can get feedback,” she said. 
Schmidt then turned the topic of discussion to the ongoing revisions to the du Lac student handbook. Schmidt said that while stu­dent government does not get to vote on any changes, they can make recommendations to the Office of Student Affairs about issues student government has recognized 



Harvard Law dean set to lecture 
By MEGAN HEMLER 
News Writer 
Martha Minow, this year’s speaker for the annual Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh Lecture in Ethics and Public Policy, is not someone who ascribes to the “ivory tower” mentality that can isolate aca­demics, said Joan Fallon, director of communi ­cations for the Kroc Institute. 
Instead, Minow is a highly accessible and relatable thinker who has a passion for education, Fallon said. 
Minow, a human rights advocate for minorities, women and children, is the Jeremiah Smith, Jr. Professor and dean of Harvard Law School. 
Her lecture, Education as a Tool in Preventing Conflict: Suggestions for the International Criminal Court, will be given on March 16 at 
4:15 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
“It’s exciting to showcase a high platform person because those aren’t always so visi-society in the areas of ethics ble,” Fallon said. “These and public policy,” Culbertson speakers meet students, facul-said. “Fr. Hesburgh founded ty, they talk with them … I the institute, with the help of think students across the Mrs. Kroc. He had a vision for University, from an institute law to history where we would to journalism, “It’s exciting to educate peace not just peace showcase a high builders and studies stu -also shape pub-

platform person
dents, would be lic policy.” really interest-because those aren’t The lectures ed in her.” always so visible.” are always a 
The Hesburgh popular event, Lecture is the Fallon said, 
Joan Fallon 
largest and with last year’s most presti -director of communications expected audi­gious event the Kroc Institute ence so large 
Kroc Institute hosts each year, Fallon said. Past speakers have included the Rev. Bryan Hehir, Congressman Lee Hamilton and Nobel Peace Prize winner Shirin Ebadi. 
“We don’t tell [the speakers] what to talk about,” Fallon said. “We choose them based on the merit of their work and each brings a fresh perspec­tive.” 
The lecture series began as a way to honor University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh in his public role as an international leader in ethics, said Hal Culbertson, executive director for the Kroc Institute. 
“We set up the lecture to bring in people contributing to they moved the 
lecture into the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. 
“We usually have equal parts students and faculty,” Fallon said. “There’s also a reception afterwards for peo­ple to meet her and talk for a few minutes. 
“The Hesburgh Lecture rep­resents people who are doing the essence of what Notre Dame tries to do, and that is to be engaged at the highest level of thinking ... We try to encourage Notre Dame stu­dents to think about them­selves as influential global cit­izens.” 
Contact Megan Hemler at mhemler1@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 3, 2010 
Bookstore 
continued from page 1 
raise money and awareness for Jumpball, a basketball camp that provides free instruction and lunch to children in and around Kingston, Jamaica. 
“The more teams that partici­pate, the more funding we get for the camp,” tournament organizer Jack Goonan, a jun­ior, said. “We want to give kids 
the chance to play because they have limit­ed funds and opportunities to do so.” 
Tournament organizer Kelly Flynn, a junior, said Bookstore Basketball funds the entire camp by itself. Last year’s tourna­ment raised $12,000 for the because it’s a long running Notre Dame tradition,” Goonan said. “If they sign up now, they can have four years of funny moments on the courts.” 
Although attracting more participation from the fresh­man class is a perennial con­cern, a more serious, time-con­suming issue is the submission of inappropriate team names each year. 
“Every year, we have to sit and go through every single team name and approve them,” 

“We want to give kids the chance to play because they have limited funds and opportunities to do so.” 
Kelly Flynn tournament organizer junior 
Flynn said. “Then, the Student Activities Office reviews and approves that list.” 
Flynn noted that many teams try to be as funny as possible in creating team names, but what is funny for col­lege students is not always appropriate for 
Kingston camp and its satellite locations, making the camp completely free for its partici­pants and providing equipment and personnel for the camp, she said. 
One of the camp’s coaches is from the Notre Dame communi­ty and two of the tournament’s commissioners travel to the camp every summer. 
“It’s a good charity and a good time, and you get to see where all the money goes to,” Goonan said. 
Goonan encouraged freshmen to sign up for the tournament since their participation is tra­ditionally low. 
“Freshmen should sign up such a highly publicized, University-sponsored event. 
The championship title is up for grabs because last year’s open winners, Hallelujah Holla Back, will not be competing this year, sophomore team member Dayne Crist said. 
“I can’t play this year because I’m recovering from ACL repair surgery, and [teammate] Joe Fauria transferred to UCLA,” said Crist, a quarterback on the Irish football team. “[Team member] Jonas Gray can’t play because of a new rule restrict­ing football players from play­ing basketball.” 
Women’s tournament champi­ons Four Girls and a Guy will be back to defend their title, under a new name with an additional teammate, said sen­ior Molly McCarthy, a member of last year’s team who also helped organize the tourna­ment. 
She said the team’s victory last year was especially mean­ingful because her father and teammate Jane Fleming’s father made a surprise appear­ance at the final game. 
“The victory with our dads watching is definitely one of my favorite college memories, but I expect nothing less than a great tournament this year,” McCarthy said. “It’ll be hard work to get back to the champi­onship, but we look forward to every game.” 
The executive staff said they are enthusiastic about the tour­nament beginning. 
“We’ve been working on this since December, so it’s been a long process,” Flynn said. “We’re excited to see how many teams will come out.” 
This year’s open tournament will start on March 27 and end April 25. Any student, staff or faculty member from Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross is invited to participate. 
The large number of teams requires the open tournament to be spread out over the course of a month. Because the women’s tournament only attracts around 70 teams, it begins later than the open tour­nament. 
The semifinals and finals will take place the same weekend as the annual Blue-Gold Game, which is set for April 24. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 



Chile 
continued from page 1 
hard as other areas, the damage to DisiPavlic’s home has been relatively manage­able. 
“My mom showed me on Skype her apartment. Everything was on the floor and some non-structural walls had cracks,” DisiPavlic said. “My dad’s house lost some tiles and some stuff fell inside, and the pool lost its water. 
“It was eerie seeing and hearing all of this and think­ing that you’re not safe in your own home.” 
Though earthquakes of this magnitude are not common, DisiPavlic said tremors and seismic movement frequently occur in Chile. 
“Chile is a seismic country. Noticeable earthquakes hap­pen every couple of months. They are part of daily life in my country,” he said. “We even make a difference 


Speaker 
continued from page 1 
advocate for the survival of our planet,” Mooney said. “Her work to save our oceans is legendary and I know our graduates will be inspired by her dedication to this important cause.” 
Lowry, a young-adult fic­tion writer, won Newberry Medals for her books between the noticeable [tremors) and the destructive [earthquakes].” 
DisiPavlic said his family is trying to proceed through daily life as usual. 
“I wanted to go back home as soon as possible, but my dad told me that it would be good if we all behaved as normally as possible,” he said. “I’m going to be done with school here in Italy in June, but I’ll try to finish ear­lier to go home before that.” 
DisiPavlic said he knows the charitable nature of Notre Dame and its students firsthand, and he hopes the relief effort in Chile proves to be no exception. 
“I know Holy Cross and the Notre Dame community have deep and long lasting connec­tions with Chile, so I ask everyone to pray for those who have been affected,” he said. “I would deeply appre­ciate if the University organ­ized relief efforts too.” 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
“Number the Stars ” and “The Giver.” She is also author of the Anastasia Krupnik series. 
“The majority of our grad­uates probably counted Lois Lowry’s books among their favorites when they were growing up,” Mooney said. “We are delighted to be able to recognize her body of work.” 
Commencement will be held May 15 at noon on Le Mans Green. 


World & Nation 
Wednesday, March 3, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Guatemalan drug czar arrested 
GUATEMALA CITY — Authorities arrested Guatemala’s anti-drug czar and national police chief Tuesday in a case involving stolen cocaine and slain police, acting just two days before 
U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton arrives to discuss the drug war. 
The detentions were the latest embarrass­ment for Guatemala’s embattled anti-narcotics effort and came amid U.S. complaints that cor­ruption is impeding the battle to stop the flow of drugs north through Central America. 
Attorney General Amilcar Velasquez told The Associated Press that Police Chief Baltazar Gonzalez, anti-drug czar Nelly Bonilla and a third, unidentified official were detained for “being linked to the robbery of drugs in Amatitlan in March 2009.” 
Clinton promises aid to Chile 
SANTIAGO — U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton made a small dent in Chile’s growing needs following a massive earthquake, handing over 25 satellite phones Tuesday while promising more in the country’s capital. 
“We stand ready to help in any way that the government of Chile asks us to. We want to help Chile who has done so much to help others,” Clinton said during a brief visit that took her nowhere near areas with heavy damage. She spent most of her time at an undamaged area of the airport. 
Clinton toured an area of the airport where tea, flour and other supplies were being loaded into boxes for shipment to parts of the country where supplies are short. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Supreme Court considers gun bans 
WASHINGTON — The Supreme Court sug­gested Tuesday it will strike down U.S. cities’ outright bans on handguns, a ruling that could establish a nationwide ownership right fervently sought by gun advocates. But the justices indi­cated less severe limits could survive, continuing disputes over the "right to keep and bear arms." 
Chicago area residents who want handguns for protection in their homes are asking the court to extend its 2008 decision in support of gun rights in Washington, D.C., to state and local laws. 
Such a ruling would firmly establish a right that has been the subject of politically charged and often fierce debate for decades in the U.S. But it also would ensure years of legal chal­lenges to sort out exactly which restrictions may stand and which must fall. 
3 convicted in toddler cult killing 
BALTIMORE — The leader of a household described as a religious cult was convicted of second-degree murder Tuesday along with two of her followers for starving a 1-year-old boy to death because he did not say "Amen" during a mealtime prayer. 
Jurors also convicted Queen Antoinette, her daughter Trevia Williams and Marcus A. Cobbs of child abuse resulting in death. Cobbs was also found guilty of accessory after the fact for help­ing to cover up the death of Javon Thompson. 
The defendants each face up to 60 years in prison when they are sentenced May 18. 
They showed no emotion as the verdict was read, a contrast to their laughter and astonish­ment during prosecutors’ closing arguments. The trial lasted six days, and jurors deliberated for about three hours. 
LOCAL NEWS 

State revenue short of forecast 
INDIANAPOLIS — Indiana lawmakers who hope to adjourn Thursday got more bad financial news Tuesday as they con­tinued to wrangle over school budget cuts, an increase in the unemployment insur­ance tax and proposals designed to create jobs. 
Figures released Tuesday showed February tax collections fell $86 million short of a December forecast. Revenue is now $895 million less than predicted by a May forecast lawmakers relied on when they passed the current two-year budget in June. 
Health plan to include GOP ideas 
President Obama plans to incorporate Republican input in new legislation 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama embraced a handful of Republican health care ideas Tuesday to lure Democratic votes as he pre­pared to spell out his final package for a sharply divid­ed House and Senate, where its fate is unsure. 
In a bit of political sleight of hand, Obama said he might include four GOP-sponsored ideas in his plan, even though virtually no one in Congress or the White House thinks it will procure a single Republican vote. 
The move is aimed instead at wavering Democrats, especially in the House. Some of them might find it easier to vote for the health care package if they can tell constituents it had bipartisan elements that Republicans should have supported. Yet there is no guarantee that Democratic leaders will incorporate Obama’s suggestions in revised legislation. 

Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell warned that Democrats will enact their health care plan at their own political peril, vowing to make it an issue in every congressional race this fall. al leaders Tuesday, Obama from Sen. John McCain, R-Sen. Tom Coburn, an 
In remarks at the White said he would consider four Ariz. Oklahoma Republican who House on Wednesday, the ideas floated by Republican But Obama again rejected proposed some of the president will describe the lawmakers: sending investi-Republican appeals to notions Obama is weighing, final elements of his propos-gators disguised as patients restart the health care said that “merely incorpo­al and then ask Congress to to uncover fraud and waste debate or dramatically scale rating these ideas into the enact it, aides said. He is in Medicare and Medicaid; back his proposals. deeply flawed House and expected to leave no doubt expanding pilot programs to “Piecemeal reform is not Senate bills will not bring that, barring an unexpected bring more predictability to the best way to effectively us any closer to real change in Republican tac-medical malpractice law-reduce premiums, end the reform.” tics, he wants Congress to suits; increasing payments exclusion of people with In a letter to Obama, pass the legislation using to Medicaid providers; and pre-existing conditions or Coburn noted that opinion budget reconciliation rules, expanding the use of health offer Americans the security polls show extensive opposi­which prohibit Senate fili-savings accounts. of knowing that they will tion to the Democratic plan. busters. Obama is unlikely “I said throughout this never lose coverage,” his “An all-or-nothing reconcili­to use those exact words, as process that I’d continue to letter said. ation strategy will give the Democratic leaders are draw on the best ideas from House Speaker Nancy American people nothing,” emphasizing they want to both parties, and I’m open Pelosi said the letter “brings Coburn wrote. pass a bill with simple to these proposals in that us just another step closer White House chief of staff majority votes in the House spirit,” Obama wrote. to passing the bill.” She said Rahm Emanuel, after meet-and Senate. In a nod to his 2008 presi-she hopes to incorporate ing with top Democrats in 
It takes 60 votes to halt a dential rival, he said he had some of the GOP ideas. the Capitol, told reporters: filibuster, and Democrats eliminated a special deal for Republicans, meanwhile, “Reconciliation is a vehicle control only 59 in the 100-Medicare Advantage benefi-made it clear the presi-that’s been used many member Senate. ciaries in Florida and other dent’s overtures will not win times. This is a normal pro-
In a letter to congression-states that drew criticism their hearts or votes. cedure.” 

Dems press Bunning to end budget block 
deficit were not in a compromising said. 
Associated Press 

mood, signaling that they largely want A law that provided stopgap road 
WASHINGTON — Democrats the irascible Bunning to surrender funding and longer and more gener­ramped up the political pressure rather than agree to a set of votes on ous unemployment benefits and Tuesday on a Republican stubbornly ways to defray the $10 billion cost of health insurance subsidies for the job-blocking a stopgap measure to extend the measure. It seemed increasingly less expired Monday. Without the help for the jobless and keep federal likely that Bunning would relent. extension, about 200,000 jobless peo­highway dollars flowing. Republican Leader Mitch McConnell ple could lose federal benefits this 
But an impasse involving Sen. Jim — who has a strained relationship week alone, according to the liberal-Bunning of Kentucky that has caused with his homestate colleague — said leaning National Employment Law federal furloughs and threatens the that he is working with Democrats to Project. unemployment benefits of hundreds of set up a vote to pass the legislation, Earlier on Tuesday, Bunning object-thousands of people continues, even which has been single-handedly held ed to a request by Maine Sen. Susan as GOP leaders pressed for a graceful up by Bunning despite virtually unani-Collins, a fellow Republican, to pass a exit from the unexpected political mous support from the other 99 sena-30-day extension of jobless benefits tempest — which has subjected tors. and other expired measures. Republicans to withering media cover-“We’re going to be able to work out When asked Tuesday if Bunning was age and cost the party politically. the short-term extension in the very hurting the Republican Party, Collins 
Democrats used to being on the near future and we’re in the process said, “He’s hurting the American peo­defensive over health care and the of working on that now,” McConnell ple.” 
page 6 The Observer  NEWS Wednesday, March 3, 2010 
Walton 
continued from page 1 
pared for marriage and worked with families planning funerals for loved ones, Rocca said. 
“The Notre Dame community will miss her dedication, her zeal, her knowledge of the liturgy and music, her expertise,” Rocca said. “And ultimately her gracious presence and her wonderful smile.” 
Although Walton dedicated her life to music, it wasn’t for her own benefit, but meant to help others, Vice President of the Liturgical Choir Christie Marden said. 
“More than anything, Gail val­ued sacred music and what it can bring to the liturgy. Even though she spent decades making beauti­ful music, her ministry was never about herself,” Marden said. “She was always reminding the choir … that our job is to help the con­gregation to pray.” 
Schank also said Walton’s focus was on helping others strengthen their faith. 
“Gail always stressed that our work in the Basilica was always a ministry and never a perform­ance,” he said. “The choir climbs the stairs to the loft each Sunday 
Word 
continued from page 1 
´“retarded” and its isolating effects on those with intellectual disabilities, Palumbo said. 
“We expected to get about a dozen schools involved in last year’s campaign and ended up [getting] 45 universities and even schools in other countries to par­ticipate,” Palumbo said. 
He said he anticipates even more involvement this year as service organizations such as Best Buddies International Inc. and Push America have joined the effort. 
The campaign has also gar­nered celebrity involvement with “Scrubs” actor John C. McGinley as the main spokesperson. Other celebrities involved with the cam­paign include Joe Jonas, Carl Lewis, Evander Holyfield and Alonzo Mourning. These celebri­ties have shown their support by creating public service announce­ments in which they recite the pledge and post the videos on YouTube or other media outlets. 
This year, Palumbo said he hopes the campaign will gain national media engagements or a possible op-ed in a major publi­cation like The New York Times to raise attention for the cam­paign to “Spread the Word to End the Word.” 
The goal is for people to sign pledges similar to Notre Dame’s pledge: “As a member of the Notre Dame community, I pledge to end my pejorative use of the word ‘retarded.’” 
At Notre Dame, students can participate by signing one of the banners that will be located in both dining halls during lunch and dinner, as well as in LaFortune Student Center from late morning to mid-afternoon. 
morning to help others pray, to enter more deeply into the mag­nificent mystery of the Eucharist.” 
Jenky said in his homily Walton’s impact on her students extended beyond her knowledge of music. 
“She taught those choir mem­bers not only music, but how to live and how to love,” he said. 
Both Schank and Marden said Walton made an impact on their lives beyond music. 
“The Notre Dame community has lost a fine woman, mentor, friend and musician. Her warm smile and kind heart will be sore­ly missed,” Schank said. 
Marden added: “I am deeply grateful for the opportunity to get to know such a beautiful woman. She will be missed.” 
Jenky encouraged those at the funeral to model Walton’s dedica­tion to her faith and music during this period of grief. 
“When all our human explana­tions seem inadequate to describe all that we experience, we wor­ship to the Lord,” he said. “Where our words fail, we sing to the Lord … In terrible grief and sorrow, it is music that clearly expresses what we cannot say.” 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
There will also be T-shirts avail­able for $5. 
“We want to bring the event to students and to make it simple for them so it’s not something they have to work to do,” Palumbo said. “It’s something they carry with them. 
“Society gets a brighter, more enriched future to see what peo­ple with intellectual disabilities can bring to the table. It’s a pow­erful, humbling, spiritual affirma­tion to be a part of that.” 
Contact Caitlyn Kalscheur at at ckalsche@nd.edu 

Protesters respond to racist incidents 

Associated Press 

LOS ANGELES — A firestorm over racially and ethnically charged incidents at several University of California campus­es spread Tuesday as UC San Diego announced a KKK-style hood was found on campus and students in Los Angeles and Irvine demonstrated against intolerance. 
“What kind of campus pro­motes an environment that allows people to think it’s accept­able to target people for their ethnicity, gender or sexuality?” said Corey Matthews, one of about 200 mostly minority UCLA students who held a lunchtime rally. “It’s something about the tone of the environment that allows this.” 
At UC Irvine, about 250 people gathered for a “student solidarity speakout” to condemn the recent spate of racist incidents at UC San Diego that targeted black students and another incident last month at UC Davis, which targeted a Jewish student with a swastika carved on her door, said Marya Bangee, an event organizer. 
The protests came on the same day UC San Diego announced the discovery of a white pillowcase fashioned into a KKK-style hood 
— the third racist incident around the campus in as many weeks — and a day after UC Santa Cruz officials found an image of a noose scribbled on the inside of a bathroom door. 
Officials found the hood, which bore a hand-drawn circle and cross, on a statue of children’s book author Theodor Geisel, aka Dr. Seuss, outside the main cam­pus library late Monday. A rose had been inserted between the statue's fingers. 
Detectives were analyzing the pillowcase for fingerprints and DNA evidence, a university state­ment said. 
UC San Diego Chancellor Marye Anne Fox vowed to pun­ish the culprits to the fullest extent of the law. “We will not tolerate these despicable actions,” she said in the state­ment. 



The Observer 

Business
Wednesday, March 3, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Apple sues iPhone competitor 
SAN FRANCISCO — As Apple Inc.’s iPhone faces stiffer competition in the lucrative mar­ket for smart phones, the company is going after one of its main rivals with patent law­suits claiming theft of touch screen technology and other features. 
The complaints, which Apple filed Tuesday, cover a slew of models made by Taiwanese phone maker HTC Corp., including the Nexus One, G1 and myTouch 3G — all using the free, rival Android mobile operating software from Google Inc. Non-Android phones include HTC’s Touch series. 
But consumers shouldn’t worry about buying or using any of those phones. Patent cases can take months or years to resolve — sometimes longer than the life of these phones — and agreements over licensing and royalty pay­ments often emerge. 
Still, it shows Apple’s get-tough strategy as significant competitors emerge. 
“We can sit by and watch competitors steal our patented inventions, or we can do some­thing about it,” Apple CEO Steve Jobs said in a statement. “We’ve decided to do something about it.” 
Apple said HTC has infringed on 20 of its patents covering aspects of the iPhone’s user interface and hardware. 
Yahoo CEO: Rebound could take years 
SUNNYVALE, Calif. — Yahoo CEO Carol Bartz says she hopes investors growing impa­tient for her to turn around the slumping Internet company remember how long it took for Steve Jobs to revive Apple. 
In a Tuesday meeting to celebrate Yahoo’s 15th anniversary, Bartz reminded reporters that Apple struggled for the first four years after Jobs returned to that company as CEO in 1997. 
It wasn’t until Jobs unveiled the iPod in late 2001 that Apple’s profits and stock price began to soar. 
Bartz says the challenges she has faced in her first 14 months as Yahoo’s CEO have been compounded by the worst U.S. recession in 70 years. 
Nevertheless, Yahoo is making modest progress. Bartz expects the company’s first quarter to show the first revenue gains since the summer of 2008. 
Merger activity helps lift stocks 
Companies’ growing optimism gives market third straight winning day 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — The stock market had its third straight winning day on signs that companies are becoming more optimistic about the economy. 
The Dow Jones industrial average edged up 2 points Tuesday but closed off its best levels. The Dow had managed to erase its losses for the year during trading but was down 22 points for 2010 by the close. Broader indexes pushed into the black for the year on Monday and extended their gains Tuesday. 
More merger activity and a plan by Qualcomm Inc. to buy back stock brought reassurance that business leaders expect the recovery to continue. The economy’s health had been in doubt in recent months after reports indicated the pace of improvement was slowing and as countries including Greece struggled with heavy debt loads. 

In deal news, CF Industries made a new offer for fertilizer maker Terra Industries, which last month agreed to be sold to Norway’s Yara for $4.1 bil­lion. Dow Chemical Co. sold its Styron plastics business to private equity firm Bain Capital for $1.63 billion. ployment rate dropped for about the economy. The broader Standard & Investors often see the second straight month Darell Krasnoff, manag-Poor’s 500 index rose 2.60, takeovers as signs of confi-in January and household ing director at Bel Air or 0.2 percent, to 1,118.31, dence in the economy. spending grew. Investment Advisors in Los and the Nasdaq rose 7.22, 
Meanwhile, Qualcomm The array of reports Angeles, said the rebound or 0.3 percent, to 2,280.79. said it would buy back $3 about dealmaking and after the slide in January Bond prices were little billion in stock and raise its global economic readings and early February is a changed. The yield on the dividend by 12 percent. are clues for investors who sign that the market need-benchmark 10-year Shares of the maker of are trying to determine ed a break before it could Treasury note was flat at wireless chips and other how fast a recovery will proceed. Still, he said that 3.61 percent from late mobile technology rose 6.7 take place. A long climb in investors feel burned by the Monday. percent. the stock market began to slide in 2008 and early The dollar mostly fell 
Markets got a lift from stall in mid-January follow-2009 and have concerns against other major curren­upbeat economic reports ing mixed economic reports about the economy. cies. Gold rose. abroad and growing hopes and concern about debt in “There is still tremendous Crude oil rose 98 cents to European leaders will come Greece and other relatively anxiety about the state of $79.68 per barrel on the up with a bailout for weak European economies the global economy,” he New York Mercantile Greece. The Greek govern-like Portugal and Spain. said. “It doesn’t take much Exchange. ment is scheduled to detail Major stock indexes stand to rekindle the animal spir-Stocks rose Monday after deeper spending cuts on at their highest levels in its of the bear market.” American International Wednesday. more than a month but the The Dow rose 2.19, or Group agreed to sell its 
Manufacturing exports in gains have come in light less than 0.1 percent, to Asian life insurance busi-India rose for a third month trading volume. That indi-10,405.98. It is up 85 ness for $35.5 billion. The in January and new orders cates many investors are points in three days and is bailed-out insurer is selling reached an 18-month high staying out of the market as at its highest level since off divisions to help repay last month. Japan’s unem-they await more evidence Jan. 20. government loans. 

February auto sales exceed expectations 
free maintenance to returning cus-bling. Those results included Volvo, 
Associated Press 

tomers. General Motors Co. and which Ford is preparing to sell. 
DETROIT — Automakers plowed Chrysler LLC matched the financing Other winners included Kia Motors through a snowy February to better-deals. Corp. and Subaru. Even struggling than-expected sales, and new incentives Toyota’s U.S. sales fell 9 percent last Chrysler saw a slight increase in sales. led by beleaguered Toyota will keep the month, besting some analysts’ predic-February was the first full month momentum going into spring. tions that its sales would fall by double since Toyota suspended sales of eight 
Despite some analysts’ predictions of digits. Meanwhile Ford, GM, Nissan, popular models on Jan. 26. Toyota Vice single-digit gains, sales rose 13 percent Honda, Hyundai and BMW all reported President Bob Carter said Tuesday that over last February and all major double-digit growth compared with almost all of those vehicle have been automakers but Toyota Motor Corp. February 2009, at the depth of the repaired and are now on sale. Toyota reported higher U.S. sales. Most took recession. The gains might have been also has announced temporary produc­customers from the Japanese automak-even higher without the blizzards that tion cuts at two U.S. plants. er, which has been struggling with a paralyzed the East Coast. Carter estimated the sales suspension series of massive safety recalls. Toyota’s Ford’s sales shot up 43 percent and cost the automaker 18,000 sales in 
U.S. market share fell to 12.8 percent, the automaker outsold GM for the first February. Media coverage of the safety its lowest level since July 2005, accord-time since August 1998, when GM was lapses also has taken a toll. Toyota offi­ing to Ward’s AutoInfoBank. in the midst of a strike. Ford’s gains cials and federal regulators appeared 
To win back sales, Toyota said it will were led by cars, which rose 54 per-before House lawmakers last week and offer zero-percent financing on most cent, with sales of the midsize Fusion, a were testifying before the Senate models this month plus two years of Toyota Camry rival, more than dou-Commerce Committee Tuesday. 
page 8 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, March 3, 2010 Wednesday, March 3, 2010 The Observer  NEWS page 9 
U.N. campaigns against HIV 
Associated Press 
UNITED NATIONS — The United Nations launched a glob­al campaign Tuesday to prevent girls and women from contract­ing HIV, now the leading cause of death and disease among women worldwide between the reproductive ages of 15 and 49. 
The U.N. AIDS agency and Scottish singer and AIDS activist Annie Lennox unveiled a five-year action plan amid a two-week meeting to review a 1994 platform to achieve equal­ity for women. The platform was adopted by 189 countries at a historic conference in Beijing and included a call for increased action to prevent HIV in women as well as treat and care for them. 
The U.N. Millennium Development goals, adopted in 2000, include halting and reversing the AIDS pandemic by 2015. 
But Michel Sidibe, the execu­tive director of UNAIDS, said the agency’s latest report in December showed the propor­tion of women infected with HIV has risen in many regions of the world over the past 10 years. 
According to UNAIDS, HIV is the leading cause of death and disease worldwide among women of child-bearing age from 15-49. 
In sub-Saharan Africa, 60 percent of people living with HIV are women, and in south­ern Africa the prevalence of HIV among women aged 15-24 is on average about three times higher than young men of the same age, UNAIDS said. 

Lennox said a “broad move­ment for change” is needed. 
“I see this agenda for action as a great opportunity to bring the realities faced by many women and girls to the fore­front and to call attention to the injustices faced by many women and girls, placing them at a bigger risk of HIV,” she said. 
Nearly 30 years into the HIV epidemic, Sidibe said, growing inequality between women and men and human rights viola­tions against women including “brutal rapes” and trafficking for prostitution are putting women and girls at greater risk of HIV infections. 
He told a news conference that 400,000 babies are born every year with HIV in Africa and 30 percent will die before their first birthday without medicine, “but it also means 400,000 women have not been checked for HIV” and had no treatment “to at least avoid the transmission from mother or child.” 
“What we are trying to do is create a new movement, to mobilize the world around a new urgency — urgency which is about stopping violence against women ... an urgency which will call for a new mobi­lization of leaders in order to reduce the number of new infections among girls” and will target more services to women, Sidibe said. 
The Agenda for Action launched Tuesday calls for the U.N., governments and volun­tary organizations to work together to combat violence against women, analyze and address the factors that prevent women and girls from protect­ing themselves against HIV, and scale up engagement with men’s and boys’ organizations to support the rights of women and girls. 
Suksma Ratri, who has HIV, and is a member of Indonesia’s Positive Women’s Network, said she believes the agenda will help countries strengthen serv­ices for women and girls — including those with the virus that causes AIDS. 
If the agenda is implemented by every country, she said, “gender inequality between men and women will slowly vanish” and women will be empowered, even HIV positive women. 
Sidibe said he believes the plan will work because it was not developed just by the U.N. but by governments and volun­tary groups and has a timeline with targets. 
For the first time, he said, countries will be reporting back and there will be “a scorecard which can really show what type of progress has been made.” 


Voters debate future of Yankee nuclear plant 

tionship with the state and its 
Associated Press 
residents. 
WAITSFIELD, Vt. — In their The relationship has soured in annual town meeting on recent weeks with the discovery Tuesday, folks in this Vermont of leaking radioactive tritium at ski town voted on a town budg-the plant and admissions by et, debated the need for a new plant officials that they misled roof on the fire department state regulators about the extent building and adjourned at of underground piping on the lunchtime to nosh on Tracey property. Coutts’ famous “yummy chicken “Either they’re lying or they’re pieces” casserole and cherry pie. incompetent, and neither one is 
But at this year’s annual exer-good when you’re talking about cise in New England-style a nuclear power plant,” said democracy they also weighed in Carol Hosford, of Waitsfield. on a debate that has consumed On Tuesday, she stood outside lawmakers in Montpelier and Waitsfield Elementary School, 
dominated radio  handing out slips  
talk shows and newspaper opin­ion pages: the  “Either they’re lying or they’re  of paper urging town meeting voters to support  
continued oper­ation of an aging nuclear power plant whose  incompetent, and neither one is good when you’re talking  Item No. 13 on the agenda, which urged state lawmakers  
“leaks and lies”  about a nuclear  to turn thumbs- 
are fueling a push to close it.  power plant.”  down on the reli­censing and  
People  in  require Entergy  
Waitsfield and  Carol Hosford  to  shore  up  a  
13 other towns  Waitsfeld, Vt. resident  “decommission­ 

approved resolu­tions urging the state Legislature to pull the plug on the Vermont Yankee plant. One town voted against the measure and another opted not to take it up Tuesday. Though nonbinding, organizers hope the votes will give further momen­tum to a movement to stop it from operating past 2012. Voters here have had this direct democracy privilege since colo­nial days. 
The 38-year-old power plant, which supplies about one-third of Vermont’s electricity, is sched­uled to close in two years, but owner Entergy Corp. is seeking permission to run it for another 20 years. 
Normally, the decision would be solely in the hands of the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Not in Vermont: It’s the only state with a law giving the Legislature a say in the relicens­ing of a nuclear plant. And on Tuesday, regular people had their say, too. 
Last week, the state Senate voted overwhelmingly against continued operation, though Entergy may go to court to chal­lenge the state’s authority. 
The plant, which sits on the banks of the Connecticut River in the town of Vernon, has always endured a love-hate rela­ing fund” of 
money to be used to render it safe once it’s shut down. 
Even some nuclear power sup­porters say it’s time to pull the plug. 
“I’m very much in favor of nuclear power, but I’m not in favor of continuing Vermont Yankee,” said Dave Beach, 81, a retired Eastman-Kodak camera designer who lives in Stowe. “(Nuclear power) is nonpolluting and can be run properly. It’s just that Vermont Yankee’s not being properly managed.” 
While state health officials and Vermont Yankee acknowledge that the tritium has infiltrated groundwater, it has not been found in drinking water sup­plies. 
The state believes that tritium 
— which can cause cancer if ingested in large amounts — has reached the Connecticut River, but it hasn’t shown up in meas­urable levels. 
“A few years back, I wasn’t as adamant about it,” said Cheryl Allen, a 56-year-old graphic designer. “We all use energy. It’s easy to say that we need to close it up, but we all use energy, so it’s kind of hypocritical. But when it starts polluting the Connecticut River, it just can’t go on.” 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 10 Wednesday, March 3, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Sarah Mervosh Jared Jedick Amanda Gray Molly Sammon John Cameron Kaitlyn Murphy Graphics Scene Sofia Iturbe Jordan Gamble Viewpoint Patricia Fernandez 
Why I'm a hockey fan now 
Every time the Olympic Games roll around, all kinds of sports pick up new fans. It has almost become cliché to talk one’s love of curling after the win­ter games or a newfound respect for the modern pen­tathlon (pistol shooting, epee fencing, 200 meter swim, show jump­ing, and a cross country race) fol­lowing the Summer Olympics. However, with the passing 

Jason Coleman
of the Vancouver games, I have found myself a Man at Large newly minted hockey fan. 
As a Kansas City native, the opportu­nity to play hockey never really pre­sented itself. There are fewer rinks in the city limits than I could count on my two hands. My high school had a club team, but I don’t have any idea who they played. The closest I ever got to getting into hockey was when Kansas City, Mo. built a puck-shaped arena downtown, and subsequently failed to woo the Pittsburgh Penguins to town. I wasn’t really heartbroken. 
However, after watching five or six games over the past two weeks with my hockey-loving roommates, I have to say it is definitely a different kind of sport. While the championship game 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

between the U.S. and Canada ended the Olympics on a thrilling note, it was all the games and personalities in between that got me. 
First, I never watched a game closely enough to realize how fast it moves. As a former lacrosse player, I understood how players were subbed in “on the fly” and lines frequently changed to keep the speed at a max. I was not prepared for how seamlessly these changes took place. Collegiate lacrosse is known for wasting tons of time while changing lines, with players often holding or passing the ball around while players move in and out. In hockey, it is not even possible to see when the lines are changing. 
Second, the play of goalies is incredi­ble. American goalie Ryan Miller fin­ished the tournament saving 94.6 per­cent of shots that came his way. With pucks moving off of sticks, feet and walls all around the rink, being able to keep an eye on the puck as a viewer is sometimes impossible. In fact, it seemed that the only bad shots were the ones I could see on TV. Watching these athletes in action is a seminar in hand-eye coordination that TO or Ochocinco couldn’t begin to match. 
Third: the hits. One can’t write 600 words about hockey without talking about the hits. Given our football tra­dition, it follows that American view­ers would be into the hits. I am no exception. Whether it was the slam that loosened the outside boards or any of the checks that tore sticks in half, they were always more impres­sive at high ice speeds. On top of it all, none of these players ever seem to get hurt or call for a timeout. That’s some serious grit. 
Fourth, the games are not conducive to commercials or pauses. Sixty min­utes of hockey takes two hours on TV, not three or four. That adds up to almost ten more minutes of action per hour than football. The clock keeps running, the hits keep coming and the action stays consistent. 
Any hockey fan will look at these reasons and probably gloat. After all, they’ve known this for years. But for me, when taken together, these are all more than enough reason to start watching some hockey in my free time. With a move to Ann Arbor on the hori­zon, it might be even more important to pick up a team, if only to make sure I can find friends. I’ve heard the Red Wings aren’t bad. Of course, this could fade as fast as so many Olympic fan’s curling dreams, but I have a feeling my newfound enthusiasm is here to stay. 
Jason Coleman is a senior accounting major. He can be contacted at coleman.70@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“It’s not enough that we do our best;sometimes we have to do what’s required.” 
Sir Winston Churchill British politician 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Love truth, and pardon error.” 
Voltaire French author 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, March 3, 2010 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Be aware of the R-word 
I agree with yesterday’s column (“Spread the word to end the word,” March 2) and the Letter to the Editor (“The hurtfulness of one word,” March 2) on the importance of the efforts to end the careless use of the words “retard” and “retarded.” On March 3, I call on all stu­dents to be aware of the use of these words and to be vocal in combating them. There are three main ways these words are used. First is when the R-word is used as a derogatory term for someone with intellectual disabilities. This is hurtful, crass and just plain low. Although it’s the most obvious use of the R-word, it’s not the most common use on campus. We should pay attention to the other, more insidious uses of the R-word. One is the use of the R-word for something annoying, worthless or undesirable (e.g. “Parietals are so ___!”) This sends a message to soci­ety, whether you intend it or not, that peo­ple with intellectual disabilities should be associated with unwelcome or inconven­ient things. That’s just not true. The last use of the R-word is as a casual insult against fellow students, coworkers, or fac­ulty. When you call your peers the R-word, you take their (and your) intellectu­al abilities for granted. Be grateful for the talents God gave you, the ones that got you a high school diploma and a college acceptance with relatively little difficulty; be aware at the same time that some peo­ple face challenges to fit in every day. People with intellectual disabilities display amazing strength and bravery. 
On March 3, share in that courage. Pledge to end the R-word. 
Katherine Pierret 
alumna Class of 2009 March 2 

Basilica Wedding Madness 
As a member of the Notre Dame com­munity, I have always known about the “ring by spring” mentality. This year, I got more insight to the phenomenon. It started last summer and slowly but sure­ly progressed until the last minute end of January proposal. Then the calling group organization began. No less than three of my friends, no doubt braver than I, decided to try to have their wed­dings at the Basilica in the summer of 2011. I myself went to my local church as soon as I got engaged and was able to set my date at the time I wanted that day. 
I can understand the allure of the Basilica, and the further connection to Notre Dame would have been wonderful, but the hassle turned me off. In today’s day and age, the busy signal is almost forgotten. This is not true if you want to get married at the Basilica. Notre Dame has an online lottery for all other impor­tant facets of student life. From applica­tion, to housing, to registration, to foot­ball tickets, to senior week activities, it is all automated. Why has one never been developed for weddings? It wouldn’t be hard to do. Just collect people’s informa­tion when they get engaged, ensure that they are appropriately affiliated with the University and then give them a pin. On March 1, they log on and get their date. 
My greatest concern is for Amy Huber’s sanity. In today’s article, it said she dealt with 70-80 calls today. She must get annoyed eventually, and the couples must be frantic by 2 p.m. or so. I called for three hours and it seemed like an awfully long time. Also, what about the people on the West Coast? They had to get up at 5 a.m. Moreover, wedding hopefuls and their hapless friends and relatives have to use their limited vaca­tion days, which recent graduates rarely have and could be better using going to weddings. 
So let’s fix the system, and maybe by the time my children are getting mar­ried, I won’t have to call the Basilica for them 
Megan Aldrup 
junior Holy Cross Hall March 2 

Nothing turns me on like short hair and charity 
As most of us know, Spring Break is the prime-time for getting hair cut. Whether it’s convenient to make an appointment at your home hairdresser or you want to look good for Panama City, the locks usually drop. The pur­pose of this article is quite simple: to convince every female on this campus to not cut her hair until April 21. 
Now all you lovely ladies may be a lit­tle confused as to why such a huge sac­rifice needs to be made. On April 21-23, multiple clubs and dorms on campus (such as Sophomore Class Council, Duncan Hall, to name a few) will be joining forces to host the first annual event “The Bald and the Beautiful.”All the money collected from head shaving and hair cuts will go towards cancer research. For those not brave enough to shave their heads, Pantene Beautiful Lengths asks for eight inches of hair with the aim of making a wig for cancer patients who have recently undergone chemotherapy. 
If you aren’t convinced yet, then maybe you should take my word on the matter. Having sported everything from a bleach-blond Mohawk to a handprint shaved into my head, I know what it takes to make hair look good. If nothing else, hair should be an extension of your personality. So, if you really want to wow that guy in your seminar, let him notice your great, new haircut after April 23. Once he finds out you sacrificed your hair appointment during Spring Break so that a child undergoing chemotherapy wouldn’t have to suffer through the process of balding, I’m sure you would gain a little respect. 
All I ask is that you females take my advice both as an average guy and a hair enthusiast: Don’t let your beautiful hair be cut off at a typical hair salon and simply lay around on the ground. Make the small sacrifice of having longer hair for a few weeks so that a cancer patient can be happier. 
Ben German 
sophomore Dillon Hall March 1 
Chile earthquake 

I am a 2009 graduate living in Santiago, Chile since May of last year. It is with incredible frustra­tion that I write to you today, as 80 percent of the population of my country has been affected by one of the greatest natural disasters recorded in history. 
An 8.8-magnitude earthquake struck the morning of Saturday, Feb. 27, leaving thousands in the streets. What was not destroyed by the heavy shaking was taken down by a massive tsunami merely 20 minutes after. The images are sad­dening, to say the least. 
Thankfully, Santiago took the cataclysm quite well, with only a few buildings suffering terminal damage, and a couple highway over-passes collapsing. Concepción, however, did not pass unharmed. Though multiple build­ings collapsed, leaving many trapped in the ruins, it is not the physical damage what is affecting the region the most. 
Thousands of now-homeless peo­ple have resorted to rioting and violence to get a hold of prime necessities like food, medicine, water and fuel. But there are even more people using the situation only to create chaos. 
Grocery stores have succumbed to the masses, just like department stores, drugstores and gas sta­tions. People are taking everything they find in their way. News sta­tions have shown images of people carrying refrigerators on their backs, LCD televisions, and even liquor. Some who haven’t found what they were looking for have lit these places on fire. Concepción these days is as close as many of us will get to hell while alive. 
It is to end this situation, that many, including myself, have resorted to campaigning to get help from any source we can find. Many Web sites have been estab­lished to receive donations direct­ed to the building of emergency housing, a prime necessity to keep the people in Concepción off the streets while the rescue teams are trying to get to those still trapped. 
Please go to stanfordchile.org and donate whatever you feel you can to help ease the situation here. 
As an alum, I know the Notre Dame family is especially sensitive to those in need. And Chile needs us now. So, on behalf of the entire Chilean people, I will be eternally grateful to you for helping us. 
Always Irish, 
Gonzalo Brenner 
alumnus 
Class of 2009 
March 2 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 

Scene
page 12 Wednesday, March  3, 2010 




Joannie Rochette Canada 
Women’s freestyle program 
Rochette won the bronze just days after her mother died, and her emotion was visible in all her routines. 
She moved into the top three with this sophisticated Princess Jasmine number. 
Kevin van der Perren Belguim 
Men’s short program 
Van der Perren must be going for the “crypt keeper on ice” look 
but forgot pelvic bones and about four ribs. 






Miki Ando Japan Xue Zhao and Hungbo Shen
Women’s short 
China 
program

and Maxim Shabal Pairs short program
What’s with the This married couple —giant cross on her

Ice dancing folk program 
and eventual gold medal-chest? If the rest ofDomnina and Shabal ists — definitely broughtthe costume didn’t performed a routine their romance into theiralready look likebased on the dances of routine with these lovelyDracula’s bride, I’d the Aboriginal peoples costumes.

say she had it to wardin Australia by wearing off vampires.
brown-face illusion netting and fabric 

leaves (and these are 
the toned-down cos­
tumes). They took cul­
tural insensitivity to 
whole new level, con­sidering they were com­
peting against skaters 
actually from 
Australia. 
Jordan Gamble can be reached at jgamble@nd.edu The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Wednesday, March 3, 2010 page 13 

By GENNA McCABE 
Scene Writer 

As with much else on the Internet these days, YouTube has become a part of life. Just as “Google” became a verb several years ago, we now use the word “YouTube” in precisely the same way. 
Do you want to see the latest music video from your favorite artist? “YouTube it!” Do you want to watch “Charlie Bit Me” for the 10,000th time? “YouTube it!” Did you miss that epic thing that happened on TV last night? “YouTube it!” 
There is no doubt YouTube has become a cultural phenomenon. It has entirely changed the way people use and share video. And while it may be a struggle for YouTube itself to monetize its content, many individu­als are capitalizing on this invaluable resource at their fingertips. 
Sam Tsui and Kurt Schneider, both students at Yale University, have done just that, creating a slew of YouTube videos that have accumulated more than 20 million hits. 
Their winning recipe, which com­bines Tsui’s impressive singing voice with Schneider’s production skills, was not actually the duo’s original intention. 
According to an interview on “The Bonnie Hunt Show,” Tsui and Schneider grew up right down the street from one another. Upon coming to Yale, Schneider began producing videos and thought Tsui would be perfect for an upcoming project he was planning. The song, “Can I Have This Dance” from the film “High School Musical 3,” was intended as a duet between a boy and a girl, but when the girl stood them up, Schneider had the idea to record Tsui singing both parts. From there, he decided to shoot two Tsuis in the video — essentially, Tsui singing a duet to himself. And a brilliant idea was born. 
Tsui and Schneider decided to con­tinue collaborating after their initial success. Having found a formula that worked for them, Tsui and Schneider have produced more than 15 videos and have many more planned for the future. 
The first video to put them on the map, their version of Journey’s “Don’t Stop Believing”, has accumulated more than 5 million views alone. 
Several of their videos are must-sees, especially for the pop music fan. Their Lady Gaga medley features sev­eral of Lady Gaga’s top hits mixed to near perfection. This video, above all, exhibits the brilliance of Tsui’s voice. He delivers an inspired performance, belting out Lady Gaga’s songs almost better than the pop diva herself. 
Perhaps the best example of Schneider’s production skills, their Michael Jackson medley features no less than six Tsuis on stage singing the Prince of Pop’s greatest hits, impeccably strung together. Anyone who is a Michael Jackson fan or loves a good medley will have a hard time watching this video just once. 
Future plans for Tsui and Schneider are sure to include music. Recently they performed on “Oprah,” and they have recently released an album of their covers on iTunes. The album includes the Michael Jackson medley, the Lady Gaga Medley, “Don’t Stop Believing” and seven other fantastic tracks. 
If nothing else, Tsui and Schneider are an excellent example of what tal­ent, ingenuity and the wonders of the Internet can do for college kids look­ing to make their mark. 
Contact Genna McCabe at gmccabe@nd.edu 



SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, March 3, 2010 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
No. 1 Syracuse tops St. Johns by 19 points 
Reynolds puts up 17 points in Villanova’s victory over Cincinnati; Jenkins, Ogilvy lead Vanderbilt victory over Florida 
(15-14, 5-12) with 19 points, tion on consecutive posses-
Associated Press 
while Paris Horne had 18. sions 

SYRACUSE, N.Y. — Fifth-St. John’s dropped to 0-7 Syracuse extended its 42-28 year seniors Andy Rautins against ranked teams this halftime lead to as many as and Arinze Onuaku made season, but the Red Storm 16 points in the first 5 min-their final home game at beat Louisville at home and utes of the second when Syracuse one to remember, Notre Dame on the road in Brandon Triche hit a pullup 3 combining for 35 points and consecutive games just over in transition to make it 52-36 the Orange beat St. John’s two weeks ago and kept pace with 16:27 left. 85 -66 on Tuesday night in with the Orange early. After Horne hit his fourth 3 their first game in two Horne hit two 3-pointers of the game to cut the margin decades as the No. 1 team in and Kennedy hit another to to 11, Jardine negated it with the nation. move St. John’s within 23-20 a three -point play, and 
Syracuse (28-2, 15-2 Big with 8:27 left. But the Red Onuaku’s follow of a missed 3 East) beat No. 9 Villanova 95-Storm lost theirs second -by Rautins gave the Orange a 77 on Saturday night before leading scorer and top out-59-44 lead with 12:27 left. an NCAA record on-campus side threat midway through Johnson ’s soaring slam crowd of 34,616 to move the first half when Dwight dunk and four straight bas-from No. 4 to the top spot on Hardy twisted a knee and kets by Onuaku — a slam off Monday. It was the first time was carried off the court by a pass from Johnson, a put-the Orange were there since two teammates. back, and consecutive layups a six-week stint in 1989-90 Syracuse finished the half off feeds from Rautins and and they apparently like the on a 19-8 run, and Rautins Jardine — had Syracuse up view. led the way. After driving and 72-54 with 7:31 remaining. 
They close the regular sea-dishing off to Onuaku for a son on Saturday at Louisville layup, Rautins hit a 3 from Villanova 77, Cincinnati 73 looking to finish 9-0 on the the top of the key and set up Scottie Reynolds scored all road. Their only losses this Joseph with a perfect lob to of his 17 points in the second season were at home to the boost the lead to 33-22 with half Tuesday night, and No. 9 Cardinals and Pittsburgh. 4:55 to go. Villanova let most of its late 
Onuaku finished with a sea-St. John’s found some open-16 -point lead slip away son-high 21 points and had ings in the Syracuse zone at before holding on for a 77-73 eight rebounds. Rautins had the outset as Anthony Mason victory over Cincinnati. 14 points and seven assists. Jr. and Justin Brownlee con-The struggling Wildcats onds remaining. the stretch and lost for the Wes Johnson had 13 points, verted lobs from Malik (24 -5, 13 -4 Big East) got Vanderbilt (23 -6, 12 -3 fourth time in its last seven four assists and four blocks Boothe. But the Orange their second win in their last Southeastern Conference) games. and reserves Kris Joseph and began to extend their defense five games, and it didn ’t swept the season series for The Gators have dropped Scoop Jardine combined for and the Red Storm struggled, come easy. Villanova was the first time since 1997 and two straight and play the 23 points. getting called for a shot clock coming off a 95-77 drubbing stayed in the hunt for the Wildcats in the regular-sea-
D.J. Kennedy led St. John’s violation and backcourt viola-at No. 1 Syracuse, a low point league’s regular-season title. son finale Sunday. of its season. The Commodores need No. 3 Florida turned the game 
Down by 16 points with 6 Kentucky to lose its remain-with a 16 -2 run midway minutes left, Cincinnati (16-ing two games to have a through the second half, and 13, 7-10) regrouped for a 14-chance. Boynton did most of the point run that cut it to 66-65 Vernon Macklin led the work. with 2:17 to go. Reggie Gators (20-10, 9-6) with 21 Erik Murphy had a tip-in, Redding hit two free throws points and nine rebounds. No then Boynton found Alex Tyus and a 3-pointer that blunted other Florida player scored and Macklin for layups on the comeback. Reynolds fin-in double digits, the biggest consecutive trips. Macklin ished it off with two free problem for a team trying to followed with a one-handed throws with 3.2 seconds left. get back to the NCAA tourna-jam off Boynton’s miss, and 
Rashad Bishop had 19 ment for the first time in then Boynton tipped in a shot points and Deonta Vaughn, three years. to give the Gators their first one of two Cincinnati seniors Nonetheless, coach Billy lead of the game. honored before the game, Donovan’s team had several Jeffrey Taylor silenced the kept the Bearcats in it with chances to pull off an upset. O’Connell Center with a dunk 14 points in the first half, But Macklin missed a free on the other end, but Florida and a 3 that sparked the late throw, Erving Walker missed kept it going when Tyus hit a run. a short jumper and Kenny short jumper and Macklin got 
Boynton missed a 3-pointer loose for a layup that made it Vanderbilt 64, Florida 60 with 10 seconds remaining. 53-48 with 9:24 remaining. 
John Jenkins scored 18 The Gators even tipped in The Commodores got it points, A.J. Ogilvy added 16 the go -ahead basket. Dan back to 55-54 on Jenkins’ 3 and No. 13 Vanderbilt beat Werner, the team’s lone sen-from the corner, Vandy’s Florida 64 -60 on Tuesday ior who was recognized eighth of the game. Jenkins night, delivering a blow to before his final home game, hit another one about a the Gators’ NCAA tournament tipped one through Vandy’s minute later — his fifth — hopes. hoop with 1:06 to play. and tied it at 57. 
Jermaine Beal chipped in Werner somewhat made Florida had it tied again, 13 points for the amends with a blocked shot 60-all, and Ogilvy got credit Commodores, including two on Vandy’s next possession, for the basket that Werner key free throws with 6.2 sec-but Florida struggled down tipped home. 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Need Strega Nona tix. PLEASE CALL 574-315-5967 

child! Faculty/grad students. 2 bdrm, 2.5 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For 
Summer therapy camp for children bath, LR, DR, FR, Florida room, util-more information, visit ND's webWANTED with physical disabilities. TICKETS ity room. PERSONAL site: http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu 
Located on shore of Lake Superior 2-car attached garage. ——————————————— SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS in Big Bay, MI. Positions available Security system. Available now. CONSIDERING ADOPTION? ND I want you listen to me, friend, and I Secure your summer job! for Counselors, Waterfront, 262-332-0015. Shown by appt. ALUMS hoping to adopt. Please want you to listen to me good. I am Residential, Catholic camp, located Instructors for Nature/Arts &amp; 1616 E. Colfax. visit our website going to come at you. And I am in Nashville, Indiana. Operated Crafts/Recreation, Nurses, ——————————————— http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro-going to come at you hard. I am since 1946. ACA Accredited. Therapists, Food Service, and House 3 bed, 3 bath, new file.net. going to steal all of your clients. And Serving campers aged 7 to 16 in Auxiliary. Must be enthusiastic, rehab/clean, so close to ND you can ——————————————— then I am going to kill them in front
NOTICES 

various programs. Inclusive of per-responsible, and love children. June see campus from the yard! If you or someone you care about of you. sons with disabilities. Great staff 13 through August 8. Salary, room 2 AKC registered English Bull dogs has been sexually assaulted, we ——————————————— community. Now Hiring: Male Camp &amp; board, and experience of for free. Email alexrock@rock.com! can help. For more information, visit And you know what? I am here for Counselors. Training provided; start lifetime provided. Download applica-If interested please contact: ——————————————— Notre Dame's website: you. Let me be, your, traveling date May 29, 2010. Apply online: tion: www.baycliff.org For more d.harrison120@gmail.com For rent: http.csap.nd.edu pants. www.campranchoframasa.org. For information call or email: (906) 345-Furnished 4 bedroom house 5 ——————————————— ——————————————— more info: Contact Angi Sullivan at 9314/email baycliff@baycliff.org blocks from campus. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do It happened this morning in the 
(888) 988-2839, x25 or email ——————————————— Off street parking, security system, not go it alone. Notre Dame has parking lot. I took her to the hospi-
FOR RENT 

angi@campranchoframasa.org. WANTED, Apple iPhone SDK central air. Nice. many resources in place to assist tal. And the doctors tried to save ——————————————— developers. Contact Only $350.00 a month each. Call you. If you or someone you love her, life, they did the best they SUMMER CAMP POSITIONS: daniel@miSoft.com. gradrentals.viewwork.com 574-289-4071. needs confidential support or assis-could. And she is going to be ok. Make a difference in the life of a ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at ——————————————— 
Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Wednesday, March 3, 2010 
page 15 

NCAA Division I Women’s Basketball AP Poll 
team previous 
1 Connecticut 1 2 Stanford 2 3 Nebraska 3 4 Tennessee 4 5 Xavier 5 6 NOTRE DAME 7 7 West Virginia 8 8 Florida State 9 9 Duke 6 10 Ohio State 10 11 Oklahoma 11 12 Georgetown 13 13 Iowa State 15 14 Baylor 17 15 Texas A&M 12 16 St. Johns (N.Y.) 18 17 Gonzaga 19 18 Texas 14 19 Kentucky 16 20 Oklahoma State 23 21 LSU 20 22 Georgia 24 23 Hartford 25 24 Virginia 21 25 Michigan State NR 
NCAA Division I Women’s Basketball Coaches Poll 
team previous 
1 Connecticut 1 2 Stanford 2 3 Nebraska 3 4 Tennessee 4 5 Xavier 5 6 Florida State 9 7 NOTRE DAME 8 8 Duke 6 9 West Virginia 7 10 Ohio State 12 11 Georgetown 11 12 Oklahoma 10 13 Iowa State 13 14 Texas A&M 15 15 Baylor 17 16 St. John’s (N.Y.) 19 17 Gonzaga 20 18 Kentucky 14 19 Virginia 18 20 Oklahoma State 21 21 Hartford 23 22 Texas 16 23 Michigan State 25 24 Georgia 24 25 UCLA NR 


around the dial 
NHL Hockey 
Capital at Sabres 7 p.m., Versus 

NCAA Men’s Basketball 
Duke at Maryland 9 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 


Beltran latest player involved in probe 
Associated Press 
PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. — Mets center fielder Carlos Beltran talked to federal investigators last week about a Canadian doctor accused of selling an unap­proved drug and said he recommended the physi­cian to teammate Jose Reyes. 
Beltran went to Toronto last summer seeking Dr. Anthony Galea’s opinion on his bruised right knee, the All-Star said Tuesday. He worked with Galea for a month and felt better fol­lowing a rehab program, but his knee regressed when he went home to Puerto Rico. 
“I have nothing to worry [about], nothing to hide,” Beltran said. “I just went there for an opinion for my knee.” 

Galea is facing four charges in Canada related to the drug known as Actovegin, which is extract­ed from calf’s blood and used for healing. His assis­tant also has been charged in the U.S. for having HGH and another drug while crossing the border in September. 
Investigators talked to Reyes last week. New York Yankees third baseman Alex Rodriguez said Monday that he had been contacted about the probe. 
Galea is known for using a blood-spinning technique designed to speed recovery 
IN BRIEF 
Hamilton scratched from 
game due to shoulder injury 
SURPRISE, Ariz. — Texas Rangers outfielder Josh Hamilton will miss the team’s exhibition opener Thursday because of a bruised left shoulder. 
Hamilton was scratched Tuesday from the second of the team’s two intrasquad games because of the shoulder contusion, sustained when he dived for a ball during a pop-up drill on Feb. 25. 
Rangers manager Ron Washington said there’s no timetable for Hamilton’s return. 
“He’ll let me know when,” said Washington, whose team opens against the Kansas City Royals in the annual charity game Thursday. 
Tuesday’s intrasquad game between the regulars and reserves ended after four innings in a 4-4 tie. 
David Murphy had an RBI double, scored a pair of runs and stole a base, and Vladimir Guerrero had an oppo­site-field RBI single for the regulars. 
from injuries. Among the athletes he has treated are golfer Tiger Woods, swim­mer Dara Torres and sever­al NFL players. 
The New York Times reported on its Web site Tuesday that authorities wanted to speak with Beltran and former Mets first baseman Carlos Delgado because another athlete said he was referred to Galea by the stars. 
Beltran confirmed he rec­ommended Galea to Reyes. 
“When I was out, Reyes was one of the guys that was out also,” he said, adding he told his team­mate, “Reyes, give it a try. He helped with other ath­letes.” 
“So Reyes at the same time put his agent in con­tact with the doctor and they were in contact with the team,” he said. 
It was not known whether authorities had talked to Delgado, a free agent. David Sloane, Delgado’s agent, declined comment when reached by The Associated Press. 
Beltran, who was side­lined for 2½ months last season with a painful bone bruise on his knee, said he heard about Galea from friends and he did not undergo the platelet-rich plasma therapy. 
Beltran was accompanied by an attorney when he talked to investigators, who asked if Galea injected him with HGH. 

Reebok to be sued over 
‘Finish Strong’ Saints apparel 
NEW ORLEANS — The New Orleans Saints’ Super Bowl-winning season has led to a trademark dispute involving the team’s unofficial 2009 motto and two manufacturers of athletic wear. 
In a suit filed in Chicago federal court, Finish Strong LLC claims trademark infringement by Reebok International LLC, which manufactured and market­ed a T-shirt using the “Finish Strong” mantra that Saints quarterback Drew Brees adopted during the 2009 NFL season. 
Finish Strong claims it has had a reg­istered trademark on the phrase since 1998 and uses it in a branded line of apparel including T-shirts, pants, skirts and shirts. 
The Reebok T-shirt carries the slogan: “We Finish Strong! We Are Saints.” 
The suit, filed on Feb. 25, asks for Reebok to turn over all profits from the shirt to Naperville, Ill.-based Finish Strong, plus unspecified damages. 
Strasburg likely to start 
season in minor leagues 
VIERA, Fla. — Washington Nationals manager Jim Riggleman dropped another strong hint Tuesday that right-hander Stephen Strasburg, the top pick in June’s amateur draft, is destined to start the season in the minor leagues. 
“It’s just more challenging to pitch in Double-A or Triple-A in April than it is in spring training in March. We get a better read,” Riggleman said. 
Strasburg is slated to make his first spring training start at Space Coast Stadium on March 9 against Detroit in a game that will be televised live in Washington. He was scheduled to throw live batting practice Tuesday. 
Strasburg has shown a blazing fast­ball this spring and earned raves from the front office and teammates for his poise. But his manager acknowledged there may come a point where the rookie will need more innings than he can get in the major league camp. 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, March 3, 2010 
NFL DRAFT 

Hickman turns down chance for pro career 
Associated Press 
LINCOLN, Neb. — Jacob Hickman started 36 straight games in a Nebraska program famous for developing offen­sive lineman. He was poised to achieve the dream of the mil­lions of boys on America’s sandlots. 
Hickman had an invitation to be among more than 300 pro prospects showcasing them­selves at the NFL Scouting Combine in Indianapolis. 
He said no. 
The passion was gone. 
“Playing in the NFL was never a dream for me, like the end-all, be-all,” Hickman said. “I kind of thought if that hap­pens, it’s something I would do. As it has progressed, I’ve kind of gone in a different direction.” 
Some scouting services ranked Hickman as high as the No. 10 center available in April’s NFL draft. But a few days after the Cornhuskers beat Arizona in the Holiday Bowl, Hickman came to the conclusion that he simply doesn’t feel like playing foot­ball anymore. 
“I enjoyed everything I did here,” Hickman said. “I had a great experience. I didn’t feel the need to continue playing. It just didn’t feel like it’s what I wanted to do with my life.” 
The list of players who hang around too long in their sport grows every year. Far shorter is the list of those who, with a legitimate professional oppor­tunity in front of them, decide it’s time to do something else. 
It would be easy to point to Hickman’s lengthy history of injuries as the reason. That was a consideration. But just ing away while he can. as important — and Hickman “I know a lot of guys who can’t express exactly why — have similar injury issues like he didn’t have the stomach for me tend to have a lot more pro football. surgeries once they get to the 
“There are so many guys league,” he said, “and it’s not who deserve and want to be at something I was looking for-this level that a guy whose ward to.” heart is only halfway into it Hickman, who is from isn’t going to be successful,” Bakersfield, Calif., was recruit-he said. ed to Nebraska in 2006 by for-
NFL draft consultant Gil mer coach Bill Callahan. He Brandt, who has worked in the admitted to having thoughts 
league since the 1960s, said it hap-“Playing in the NFL pens about 
was never a dream 
every other 
for me, like the
year that a 
player end-all, be-all.” expected to be drafted 
Jacob Hickman
calls it quits 
Former Nebraska 
after college. He said Offensive Lineman Hickman probably about quitting from time to time the past four years. 
He couldn’t bring himself to do it until after his sen­ior season and he’s glad he stuck around as long as he did. 
Bo Pelini took over Callahan’s moribund program and in two years 
would have been a sixth-or built it into a 10-game winner seventh-round pick. that came within a point and 
People who haven’t played last-second field goal of beat-football at the major college or ing Texas in the Big 12 cham­pro level can’t understand the pionship game. toll it takes on the mind and Hickman talked to Pelini and body, Hickman said. The 6-a couple assistants, his wife foot-4, 290-pound Hickman and his father before deciding already has developed arthri-to hang it up. He was among tis. He played through a the first wave of players to painful hip pointer last season. receive invitations to the He’s had surgeries on a knee, scouting combine, which ankle, hand and elbow. caused him to re-think his 
“I’ve got 14 screws, two decision. plates and a washer in me,” he “Getting one as early as I did said. makes you think you have a 
Hickman is 23. He knows his pretty good shot,” Hickman income potential would have said. “I wanted to make sure been great in the NFL if he that if I decided to quit that it made a team and stuck. But wasn’t because subconsciously having weighed the money he I was afraid I couldn’t make it. might have made against his I know I had a chance to make lack of desire and the risk of a it, and I still decided I didn’t debilitating injury, he’s walk-want to pursue it.” 

Just because Hickman is done playing doesn’t mean he’s done with football. Though he’ll graduate in May with a degree in construction man­agement, he’s considering going into coaching. 
“I like the mental aspect of the game, and it’s something I could be good at,” he said. “There is a vast difference between playing and coaching. I wasn’t burned out on the game itself.” 
And Hickman and his wife of two years, Savannah, hope to start a family someday. 
“If I play for another 10 years, I might be walking with a limp when I’m 40,” he said. “I would like to be able to play ball with my kids.” 
MLB 

Mets defeat Braves 4-2 in first exhibition game 
Associated Press 
PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. — Cross another last off the list for Bobby Cox. 
Atlanta’s longtime manager got two scoreless innings from Tommy Hanson, but the New York Mets spoiled Cox’s last spring training opener with a 4-2 victory over the Braves on Tuesday. 
Cox announced last September that he plans to retire after his 21st consecu­tive season in Atlanta’s dugout 
— the longest tenure of any active manager — and 25th overall. He has agreed to serve as a consultant for the team after he steps down. 
On a damp day in Florida, the 68-year-old Cox seemed happy to be off and running with another round of spring games. 
“Just getting ready,” he said. “It’s business as usual and nothing has changed. I don’t look at it that way. It’ll hit me the last week or so.” 
New York, which was riddled by injuries last year, scratched Jose Reyes and all of their reg­ulars from the lineup when morning showers drenched the field. 
“When it rains like that and wind and (the) forecast is this and that, I just feel it wasn’t necessary to do,” Mets manag­er Jerry Manuel said. 
Jason Pridie, Jesus Feliciano and Ruben Tejada each drove in a run in the fifth inning for New York, which is scheduled to play Atlanta in Kissimmee on Wednesday. Russ Adams homered in the eighth. 
Hanson allowed a leadoff sin­gle to Feliciano before retiring six straight batters. The right-hander struck out three. 
“That was definitely a confi­dence booster out there today,” he said. “I wouldn’t say I didn’t expect to throw that well, but it went better than planned.” 
Hanson went 11-4 with a 
2.89 ERA in 21 starts last year as a rookie, despite spending the first month of the season at Triple-A Gwinnett. 
Another Braves phenom, Jason Heyward, walked twice, singled and stole a base. Heyward is 20 years old and has never played in the majors, but could be Atlanta’s starting right fielder on opening day. 
“He’s got great instincts,” Cox said. “That’s why he’s ahead of the 20-year-olds. He does a lot of other things, other than just hit. He had a great day.” 


Wednesday, March 3, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
NBA 

Iverson will not play for remainder of season 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — The Philadelphia 76ers have said goodbye to A.I. 
Allen Iverson’s second stint with the team he once led to the NBA finals ended with a whimper Tuesday when the Sixers announced he would not return for the rest of the sea­son. 
Iverson has mostly been absent from the team for a month, returning to Atlanta to be with his family as they deal with an undisclosed illness of his 4-year-old daughter, Messiah. 
Iverson, who returned to the 76ers as a free-agent in December, has not played since Feb. 20. 
“After discussing the situation with Allen, we have come to the conclusion that he will not return to the Sixers for the remainder of the season, as he no longer wishes to be a dis­traction to the organization and teammates that he loves very deeply,” team president Ed Stefanski said. “It has been very difficult for Allen and the team to maintain any consistency as he tries to balance his career with his personal life.” 
The former NBA MVP and four-time scoring champion averaged 13.8 points in 28 games this season. He started the season with Memphis but only played three games before he announced a short-lived retirement. 
Coach Eddie Jordan said at practice it was best for Iverson to move on and put his focus on his family. 
“I think it was the right thing to do at the right time,” Jordan said. “His body of work has proven to be a terrific body of work in the history of the NBA.” 

Iverson’s agent, Leon Rose, did not immediately return messages seeking comment. Other attempts to reach Iverson were unsuccessful. 
The 34-year-old Iverson made a tearful return to Philadelphia eager to prove 
play basketball. 
“It was tough to leave her and my wife and kids,” Iverson said. “But I do have a commitment and an obligation to be with my team and to do my job. But it is rough. I think this is the only thing I do in life where for a couple hours during the game I don’t think about nothing but 
(basketball).” 
he wasn’t fin­ished after dis­astrous stints  “We have come to the conclusion that he  Iverson was hobbled by an arthritic left knee  
in Detroit and  will not return to the  and  constantly  
Memphis. He returned to a sold-out crowd  Sixers for the remainder of the  needed it drained. He usually walked gingerly around  
dotted with No. 3 jerseys, but he only showed flashes  season, as he no longer wishes to be a distraction to the  the locker room after games. His dwindling produc­tion didn’t bother  
of his former p l a y m a k i n g self when he ruled the NBA  organization and teammates that he loves very deeply.”  his fans — Iverson was voted a starter for the East All-Stars,  
as  one  of the  though he did not  
best  guards  Ed Stefanski  play.  
around. He scored at least  Sixers president  Dalembert, who played with  
20 points six  Iverson in both his  

times — including a 23-point Philly stints, said A.I. was not effort in a game against the the same player who once ter-Lakers that turned into a rorized the opposition. But throwback 1-on-1 duel vs. Kobe Dalembert also noticed a more Bryant. reserved, humbled Iverson who 
“Before it was like, give him just wanted to fit in instead of the ball, everybody spread out dominating the ball or making and let him do his thing,” Sixers splashy headlines with contro­center Samuel Dalembert said. versial or selfish actions. “Now, he’s like, you have to run “He was focused, he was this, you have to get him being a leader,” Dalembert involved. He was still learning said. “It was a completely dif­the offense. There were a cou-ferent Iverson. The role we ple of games where it was a needed him to play, he was struggle offensively, but other doing it. He understood what he games he got the feel for it. You needed to do for the team and got the flash of A.I.” he came in and did it.” 
Iverson said at a Feb. 15 The Sixers have been awful practice that it was emotionally with or without Iverson. They draining to leave his family to are 22-37 after a 126-105 loss to Orlando on Monday night. They were on a nine-game los­ing streak when Iverson made his debut on Dec. 7. 
Andre Iguodala, another Sixer who saw both ends of Iverson’s time in Philly, said he’ll miss No. 3. 
“He did a good job bringing his personality to us,” Iguodala said. “On the plane, on the bus, just having a chance to laugh. He brought a huge positive side. Guys enjoyed being around him.” 
Iverson was the No. 1 overall pick in the 1996 draft and spent 10 seasons in Philadelphia before he was traded to Denver in December 2006. He won the MVP in 2001 when he led the Sixers to the Finals. 


PGA 
Woods returns home after counseling session 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla.— Tiger Woods is back at home after a week of family counseling in Arizona and is trying to get into a routine that includes golf and fitness, a person with knowledge of his schedule said Tuesday. 
Woods returned to his home near Orlando on Saturday and has been hitting balls on the range at Isleworth, not far from where he ran his SUV into a tree in a middle-of-the-night acci­dent on Nov. 27 that set off reve­lations of his extramarital affairs. 
The person, who spoke on condition of anonymity because only Woods is authorized to release information about his schedule, said there is still no timetable for golf’s No. 1 player to return to competition. 
Woods was photographed hit­ting golf balls at Isleworth on Feb. 18, the day before he ended nearly three months of silence by speaking to a small group of associates in a 13½­minute statement that was tele­vised around the world. Those photos of Woods were arranged to counter the paparazzi trying to follow his every move since Thanksgiving. 
Woods has not practiced in earnest since winning the Australian Masters in Melbourne on Nov. 15 for his 82nd victory worldwide. 
News of him getting back into a routine is sure to begin specu­lation when he might return to the PGA Tour. Woods announced on Dec. 4 that he was taking an “indefinite break” to try to sal­vage his marriage. 
“I do plan to return to golf one day, I just don’t know when that day will be,” Woods said Feb. 19 in his statement at Sawgrass. “I don’t rule out that it will be this year.” 
Woods said he was leaving the next day for more therapy, with­out saying what kind. The per­son who spoke to The Associated Press said he went to Arizona for a week of family and marriage counseling with his wife, Elin. 
Woods said at Sawgrass of his infidelity, “As Elin pointed out to me, my real apology to her will not come in the form of words; it will come from my behavior over time. We have a lot to dis­cuss; however, what we say to each other will remain between the two of us.” 
Woods is not likely to play next week in the World Golf Championship at Doral, where he has won three times. 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, March 3, 2010 
NBA 

Wade leads Heat in win over Warriors, 110-106 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — Dwyane Wade had 35 points and 12 assists, and the Miami Heat snapped a four-game slide by digging deep late to beat the under­manned Golden State Warriors 110-106 on Tuesday night. 
Quentin Richardson scored 15, including two big 3-point­ers in the final minutes, for the Heat. Michael Beasley also had 15 points, while Jermaine O’Neal and Carlos Arroyo each added 14 for Miami, which moved a half-game ahead of Charlotte in the race for the No. 8 seed in the Eastern Conference. 
The Heat also got within two games of Toronto for the No. 5 seed. 
Anthony Morrow scored 24 points, C.J. Watson had 20 and Stephen Curry added 18 for Golden State, which had a chance to tie the game with 5 seconds left — but Curry’s pass skipped off Ronny Turiaf ’s hands, Arroyo fol­lowed with two free throws, and Miami escaped. 
Turiaf finished with 15 for the Warriors, who dressed only the minimum eight play­ers — including Reggie Williams, who was signed ear­lier Tuesday to a 10-day con­tract after being called up from the Sioux Falls Skyforce. 
The Warriors were without leading scorer Monta Ellis (sore back) and center Andris Biedrins (sports hernia), both of whom are expected to miss at least the next four games as well. It all meant Golden State used its 35th starting lineup of the season, and like most of the other 34, this one simply didn’t have enough to win. 
That’s not for a lack of try­ing. 
Warriors coach Don Nelson spoke before the game about how much he’s enjoyed watch­ing his team — which has known it has no playoff chance for some time — con­tinue to play hard, and right on cue, they delivered another one of those performances against Miami. 
Golden State attacked the rim in the first quarter, shoot­ing 10 of 11 from inside the lane and that, combined with six early Miami turnovers, gave the Warriors a 34-33 lead after one. And even though Wade had 19 by half­time, Morrow had 17 for Golden State in the first 24 minutes, so Miami’s 56-54 lead at intermission — espe­cially when considering the home woes that have dogged Miami all season — seemed tenuous at best. 
Eventually, the Heat found a way. 
It was far from easy. 
Down 95-94 after Morrow hit a 3-pointer with 6:00 left and silencing a half-empty building, the Heat looked to Wade for a burst, and once again, he delivered. A 15-foot­er — his longest made jumper of the game to that point — gave Miami the lead, and then he set up Richardson for a 3­pointer and a 99-95 lead. 
Wade to Richardson for another 3-pointer 59 seconds later, and it was 104-97. 
Exhale? 
Not yet. 
Curry made a jumper from the foul line with 1:01 left to get the Warriors within two, and Morrow had an open look at a 3-pointer with 10 seconds left that would have put Golden State up by one. It clanged off the rim, O’Neal grabbed the rebound and the Heat held on. 

MLB 

White Sox shape up new pitching rotation 
Associated Press 
GLENDALE, Ariz. — Gavin Floyd was efficient while Chicago White Sox teammate Daniel Cabrera was wild once again Tuesday during a practice game against the Los Angeles Dodgers. 
The Dodgers won 4-2 in a seven-inning game at the spring training complex they share. Both teams play their exhibition open­ers later this week. 
Floyd gave up one hit, two walks and hit a batter. He figures to be the third or fourth starter in Chicago’s rotation. 
“I want Gavin Floyd to win 20 games,” Chicago manager Ozzie Guillen said. “I think he’s got the potential to do it.” 
Cabrera, trying to regain his form, gave up four runs on three hits and three walks in one inning. 
Control problems have plagued Cabrera the past two years. He walked 42 and struck out 23 last season with the Washington Nationals and Arizona Diamondbacks. 
Cabrera dismissed this perform­ance — 28 pitches, 12 for strikes 
— as only being the first outing of spring training. 
“Understand, it’s been a while and I didn’t do the things I wanted to do,” Cabrera said. “I just have to keep working and I’m getting into form now. It’s just going back out there and pitching and hope­fully doing better next time.” 
Guillen expressed disappoint­ment in Cabrera’s performance. The White Sox are trying to con­vert the hard-throwing righty into a long reliever. 

NHL 

Capitals hopeful after break 
Associated Press 

ARLINGTON, Va. — The Washington Capitals entered the Olympic break atop the NHL standings. That doesn’t mean life will be easy as they prepare for their first game in 18 days. 
On Wednesday, the Capitals will face the Buffalo Sabres and Ryan Miller, MVP of the Vancouver Olympics and silver medalist as goaltender of the 
U.S. team. 

It just also happens to be the day of the league’s trade dead­line. And the Capitals are playing with a superstar who’s even more motivated than usual. And there’s only 20 games over the next 40 days to settle on a No. 1 playoff goalie. 
“We want to be playing as well as we can when we hit the play­offs,” forward Brooks Laich said. “The next 20 games are going to be used to iron out how we’re going to play, and identify our strengths and our weaknesses, and then we want to have momentum going into the play­offs.” 
First, there is Wednesday’s trade deadline, a date that’s been a significant milestone in seasons past but is now being downplayed by nearly everyone in the organization. There might be a minor move or two — more depth at the blue line could be a priority — but there seems little logic in disrupting the chemistry of a team that set a franchise record by winning 14 straight games in January and early February. 
Team owner and blogger extraordinaire Ted Leonsis post­ed that he doesn’t see the Capitals “doing anything dramat­ic this week,” adding: “I threw out our ‘stupid pills’ a couple of years ago.” 
“Sometimes the best move,” Laich said, “is not making a move at all.” 
That said, all is not perfection in Caps Land. After the 14-game streak, the team lost its last three before the break, allowing an average of five goals per game. That’s why defensive play has been the message of the last few days. 
“We were winning, we were all doing the right things, and then we just got away from doing the right things, and then it’s like a runaway train,” coach Bruce Boudreau said. “You start scor­ing goals, and you get so hungry scoring goals that you forget about the other end of the ice.” 
Boudreau also has three potential No. 1 goalies to juggle, each with at nine wins. Veteran Jose Theodore has as many starts (31) as youngsters Semyon Varlamov (15) and Michal Neuvirth (16) combined. Theodore has a 10-game per­sonal winning streak that tied the franchise record, but his goals-against-average and save percentages are the worst of the three. 
Injuries and inconsistency have kept Boudreau for settling on a definitive No. 1. Last year he entered the playoffs with Theodore as his starter, only to yank him in favor of Varlamov after only one game. 
“We’ll have somebody when we’re going into the playoffs as the one that starts,” the coach said. “The good thing is we’ve got guys that are ready to go if that person isn’t successful. That’s our stance, and I think last year we showed we’re not afraid to make a change. We want to win, so, whatever we have to do to put the best team on the ice in my mind to win, we’ll do.” 


Wednesday, March 3, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
MLB 

Butler looks to make name for himself in KC 
Associated Press 
SURPRISE, Ariz. — If Billy Butler’s breakthrough sea­son of 2009 had come in New York, Los Angeles or Boston, the barrel-chested first baseman would likely be one of baseball’s most celebrated young hitters. 
Fame is hard to come by in a major league backwater like Kansas City, which has­n’t hosted a postseason game in 25 years — even for young athletes who achieve a level of excellence known only to an elite few. 
Until Butler came along last season, just seven men who were 23 or younger had hit 50 or more doubles in a season. You may have heard 
of Hank Greenberg, Enos Slaughter, Stan Musial, Alex Rodriguez, Albert Pujols, Grady Sizemore and Miguel Cabrera. 
Toss in Butler’s 21 home runs and the list drops to only five men in the modern era of the game who legged out 50 doubles and hit 20 homers before turning 24. 
It was one of the finest seasons in Royals history. And to many people, even serious baseball fans, it went virtually unnoticed. Even many of those in Kansas City failed to appre­ciate what their hardwork­ing young first baseman was doing because attention was riveted on Zack Greinke, who won a Cy Young Award with a major league -best 
2.16 ERA. 
The funny thing is, Butler doesn ’t seem to mind. He knows he’s not playing in a major market, and he knows he ’s playing for a team that’s long been out of the national spotlight. 
Most of all, he knows that one great season is not the sum total of the career he envisions for one Billy Ray Butler of Idaho Falls, Idaho. 
“I know what company I’m in there,” he said. “By no means do I think I’m as good as those guys. They didn’t do it just one year. They did it multiple years, consistently. A-Rod’s done it for a decade. Stan Musial did it for a lifetime. I did it for one season. If I do it again this year, I’ll take a little more credit. If I do it three seasons, I’ll take a lit­tle more credit.” 
Last year was quite a sea­son for the young man who averaged .336 in the minor leagues. Spraying the ball all over the field with his quick and powerful right-handed swing, he amassed 73 extra -base hits and a .301 average for 299 total bases — 10th -best in the majors. His 51 doubles were three short of Hal McRae’s team record. Historians say he’s the first player since the modern era began in 1900 to have four games with three doubles in one season. 
“If I don’t ever repeat any­thing close to that again, then it was just a fluke year,” he said. 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
OSU clinches Big Ten Title 
Associated Press 

COLUMBUS, Ohio — Jon Diebler once again lit up Illinois from behind the arc, hitting seven 3-pointers for 21 points, to lead No. 6 Ohio State to a 73-57 victory on Tuesday night that assured the Buckeyes of at least a share of the Big Ten title. 
It was the third conference title in the last five years for Ohio State (24-7, 14-4), win­ners of four straight overall and 13 of 15. 
William Buford added 17 points, seven rebounds and five assists, Evan Turner con­tributed 16 points and 12 rebounds and David Lighty had 15 points for Ohio State. 
DeMetri McCamey had 18 points for the Illini (18-12, 10­7), who have lost two straight and four of five. 
Diebler hit six 3-pointers and scored 18 points in the Buckeyes’ 72-53 rout at Illinois on Feb. 14. 
After the game, fans rushed the court and cheered while several players ran over to their families to celebrate with them. 
The crowd chanted “One More Year!” for Turner, a front-runner for national play­er of the year who has not decided if he will give up his senior season to jump to the NBA. 
Athletic director Gene Smith then presented the Big Ten championship trophy while the band played. 
The Buckeyes used a 12-0 first-half run — built around two 3s by Diebler — to take the lead for good. The Illini stayed close before Ohio State scored 12 of 14 points to pad its lead. 

The title was Ohio State’s 18th. The victory also locked up the No. 1 seed in next week’s Big Ten tournament, with the Buckeyes getting nine days off until they play in the quarterfinals in Indianapolis. 
With Ohio State on top by four points at halftime, both teams tightened things up on defense. 
The Buckeyes’ lead hovered around four points until Kyle Madsen hit a baseline jumper and, after an Illinois turnover, Lighty took one quick step to the basket and scored on a left-handed layup while Illini big man Mike Tisdale picked up his third foul. Lighty’s three-point play pushed the lead to 58-49 with 9 minutes left. 
After McCamey picked up his first points of the half on an 18-foot jumper, the Buckeyes hurried the ball down the court and Buford hit a short jumper — with Tisdale collect­ing his fourth foul. Buford’s accompanying free throw made it 61-51. 
Buford then stole a pass and drove, fouling out Tisdale, before hitting both free throws. 
Illinois had made just 4 of 24 3-point shots in the earlier matchup, but came out con­necting at Value City Arena. They hit 6 of their first 10 shots behind the arc and set the pace early. 


NBA 
O’Neal promises return for 2010 postseason 
Associated Press 
INDEPENDENCE, Ohio — Now that his regular season is all but ended, Shaquille O’Neal promises he’ll make it up to Cleveland in the playoffs. 
The Cavaliers center had surgery on his injured right thumb Monday and seems likely to miss the rest of the regular season. He should miss about eight weeks, the team said. 
He was examined Sunday by spe­cialist Dr. Thomas Graham at the National Hand Center in Baltimore, who operated Monday morning. 
He was acquired in a trade by the Cavs in the offseason to help them win the NBA finals in LeBron James’ final year under contract in Cleveland. Shaq immediately took to the challenge, saying he was there to win LeBron his first NBA title. 
“Will be out for a min but when I return it is on,” O’Neal posted on his Twitter account Monday morning. “Win da ring for da king! Luv my team, Cavs baby!” 
O’Neal was averaging 12 points and 6.7 rebounds in 53 games. He injured the thumb Thursday at Boston when his shot was blocked by Glen “Big Baby” Davis with just over 7 minutes left in the first half. 
Making things worse for the Cavs, they had just traded away longtime center Zydrunas Ilgauskas, who had come to overlap roles with O’Neal. 
The recovery timeline means O’Neal, who turns 38 on Saturday, may not be ready for the start of the playoffs April 17. The Cavaliers acquired him last summer with an eye toward the postseason, after Dwight Howard and Orlando elimi­nated them in the Eastern Conference finals. 
“He feels like he let us down, but we understand injuries happen in the game,” said teammate Jamario Moon, who got a text from the star center along with the other Cavs. “I think he’s really down about being out. ... He let us know it’s time to continue playing basketball and he’s going to be all right.” 
Cavs general manager Danny Ferry said O’Neal will wear a splint for the next two weeks, then begin his rehab. 
“Our guys have done a very good job of stepping up this season. We are confident they will do the same in this situation,” Ferry said. “We are fortunate to have some depth in our front court that can keep us moving forward while Shaq recov­ers and returns to play for the post­season.” 
Anderson Varejao will continue to start at center for Cleveland, which has the NBA’s best record at 44-16. 
J.J. Hickson and Leon Powe, who recently returned from knee sur­gery, are also options. 

page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, March 3, 2010 
NBA 

Arenas breaks silence, attends event put on by PETA 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — As he has done many times in the month of March, Gilbert Arenas took off his shirt in a building full of adoring fans. 
This time, though, he was sim­ply changing into a T-shirt with the PETA logo, not removing his Washington Wizards jersey to toss into the crowd on the way to the locker room after a game. Suspended by the NBA for the rest of the season for bringing guns to the locker room, he was giving away used fur coats to women in need on behalf of one of the few groups still proud to be associated with him: People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. 
“I have a lot of free time on my hands,” Arenas said when one of the organizers thanked him for coming. 
After the coats were handed out, Gilbert spoke to The Associated Press, his first inter­view since pleading guilty to a felony gun possession charge in January. Appearances such as these are helping pass the time until the next big date on his cal­endar: March 26, when he’ll learn whether he’ll go to jail for his crime. 
Asked if he was nervous, Arenas shrugged. 
“If the judge goes off with the story the papers write, then, yeah,” Arenas said. “But if he goes off the actual real story, then I have no problems with it.” 
Arenas has maintained that he had four guns in the Wizards locker room and took them out in a “misguided effort to play a joke” on teammate Javaris Crittenton, who then displayed a firearm of his own and has since been sen­tenced to a year of unsupervised probation for a misdemeanor gun charge. Arenas could get anything from probation to five years in jail, although the government indicated it will not seek more than six months. 
Until the fateful date comes and goes, questions about Arenas’ future are hard to answer. Would he be willing to play again for the Wizards, the team that gone to great lengths to disassociate itself from him, the team that has removed nearly every trace of him from the Verizon Center? 
“I have no problem,” Arenas said. “Basketball is basketball. I don’t think people realize that. No matter what city, overseas, D-league, park league — I just want to play.” 
Then again, Arenas noted that his future with the Wizards is not up to him. He’s only in the second season of a six-year, $111 million contract. 
“That’s up to the city and the owners,” Arenas said. “It’s out of my hands.” 
Arenas’ sentence could deter­mine whether the Wizards will attempt to void the remainder of his contract, something the play­ers’ union would almost certainly oppose. Still, team president Ernie Grunfeld has indicated an Arenas appearance in a Wizards uniform could happen again, saying last month: “He’s part of the organiza­tion. If he wants to play, he’s going to play here.” 
Arenas is not big into downtime 
— he’s been known to play online poker during halftime of NBA games and work out in the Verizon Center gym at 2 a.m. — but knee problems that derailed his previous two seasons have made it easier for him to cope while away from the arena. 
“You’ve got to remember: I’ve been hurt for two years before this, and so I did all my stir-crazy moments then,” he said. “So now it’s like ‘I’m used to this, I’m used to this time off.’ Just play with the kids, be a father.” 
Arenas also said he’s “staying in shape and finding causes to help, without all this publicity behind it.” The athlete who used to make news regularly via blog, Twitter and outlandish comments in the locker room expressed surprised to find a reporter at the PETA event, and his short answers exhibited his preference to lay low. 
His million dollar smile came to life, however, for the people at Rachael’s Women’s Center, where the event was held. It might seem unusual for PETA to be giving away furs, but these were all donated by people who bought them, then had a change of heart and wanted to discard them for ethical reasons. Rather than throw them away, PETA accepts the furs and gives them to home­less people and others in need of a inter coat to stay warm. 
Arenas helped the women try on the furs, giving advice on size and looks. Several asked for auto­graphs, photos or hugs — or a combination of all three — and he complied every time. He was called “my favorite basketball player” by one woman and told by another how much the last-place Wizards need him back. 
PETA approached Arenas about becoming a spokesman for the organization early in the season. It was coincidental that the organ­ization released a photo of his tat­tooed bare chest with the slogan “Ink, Not Mink” the very week that he was initially suspended by NBA commissioner David Stern. 
“Nothing that allegedly hap­pened had anything to do with how animals are treated on farms or the issues that we advocate for as an organization,” said Dan Shannon, director of campaigns for PETA. “If he wants to speak out about the cruelty in the fur industry, we want him to do that.” 
Arenas said he’s never owned a fur. Being welcomed by PETA is a welcome change: The Wizards have kept their distance and his shoe company, Adidas, has dropped him altogether. 


Wednesday, March 3, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 
Start 
continued from page 24 
friendly environment,” Bednarski said. “Let’s hope that our athletes will be able to effectively run this emotional rollercoaster during the conference championships.” 
The Irish finished the regular season with the top-ranked men’s and women’s teams. Both sported an undefeated record, the first time this has occurred since 1991. 
Although the Irish have passed every test so far, they are aware their work is not done, and a sea­son that has been so satisfying could very easily turn sour with a couple of bad performances. 

“[The] postseason is coming and we are now a different type of events,” Bednarski said. “The regionals and final of the NCAA have different rules and different emotional pressure. I am sure that these events will decide how much we appreciate our regular season results.” 
A pair of Olympians — sopho­more Gerek Meinhardt and sen­ior Kelley Hurley — has led the Irish all season. 
Meinhardt was a first team All-American as a freshman and fin­ished second in the NCAAs last year. Hurley was the 2008 women’s epee national champion. But Bednarski said the team’s depth is a strength that will hope­fully lead the Irish to a NCAA team title. 
“Beyond [Meinhardt and Hurley] we have a big group of individuals who can win anytime and against anybody,” Bednarski said. “They are prepared physi­cally and mentally and they are one unit, one team that wants to win.” 
As they head into the confer­ence championships, the already decorated team has grander aspi­rations and expects that it can do great things. 
“In the sport of fencing, it is not the season but Conference rings and NCAA medals that give big­ger satisfaction and last longer in a memory of athletes,” Bednarski said. 
Contact Luke Mansour at lmansour@nd.edu 
Tennis 
continued from page 24 
biggest win of his career against Luke Ross O’Cannor [of Wisconsin],” Bayliss said. “Sam’s ability to finish at net a year ago cost him, came in a lot, and made a big difference. Put us on the board, home court advan­tage.” 
Havens also came away with an easy win, only dropping one game in a victory at No. 2 singles. 
No. 19 Watt did not have such an easy time with his opponent at No. 1 singles. No. 109 Marek Czerwinski defeated Watt 7-5, 6­4. 
Freshman Blas Moros was the next Irish player to fall, losing 6­seniors to show what kind of games they have,” Kubinski said. “Each has worked very hard the last couple weeks in preparation, so I think we’ll see good things.” 


The Irish will take to the course starting Friday in Laredo, Texas, with the time to be announced. 
Contact Luke Mansour at lmansour@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles prepare for trip to Orlando to train 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
After only three matches, the Belles will take their annual spring trip to Orlando, Fla., March 6-13. The trip will allow the team to work on several aspects of their game that have been a focus during training. 
“We have been working really hard to improve our doubles and also improve our conditioning going into the trip,” Belles coach Dale Campbell said. 
The weeklong trip will test the Belles’ (2-1) mettle and training. Over six days, the Belles will face Ursinus, Carthage, Wesleyan, Wartburg, St. Francis and 4, 6-3 at No. 6 singles. 
Anderson lost again at No. 4 singles in a tough three-set match by a score of 4-6, 6-2, 6-3. 
Anderson was coming off of a big win for the Irish as he beat a talented freshman on the Wisconsin team over the week­end to help lift the Irish to a vic­tory. 
No. 72 junior Dan Stahl fought to a three-set finish with No. 66 Souza, as he jumped out to an early lead with a 6-2 victory in the first set and then dropped the second set 6-4, and was tied 6-6. 
The Irish have 10 days off before they travel south to take on South Florida and Florida State over Spring Break. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba01@saintmarys.edu 
Border 
continued from page 24 
Overall, Kubinski said he is confident he will see a positive performance from his team heading into the weekend tour­nament, especially from seniors Doug Fortner and Josh Sandman. 
“I’m really looking for our Wheaton. 
“We will be playing six matches in six days which should chal­lenge us physically,” Campbell said. 
Although the season is young, Campbell said he has already noticed some improvements in his players, such as maturity on the court, better concentration and adjusting games in the middle of matches. 
Despite the progress made in the short period of time, Campbell said more improvements must be made as the team looks to contin­ually advance its game heading into MIAA conference play. 
“We still need to get stronger to face the top teams in our confer­ence,” Campbell said. “Our dou­bles has to get more aggressive and have a stronger presence, as well as make our opponents react to us.” 
The trip will give the Belles an opportunity to get some much-needed experience against non-conference competition similar to that which they will face in league play. 
Nonetheless, the spring trip is invaluable in preparing the team for tougher stretches ahead. 
In terms of expectations, Campbell said he just wants to see his players get better. 
“My expectations are to improve and have the most effort possible,” Campbell said. “The wins will come but we have to get better, improve our doubles team­work and continue to play a high­er level offensively in singles.” 
The trip offers the Belles a chance to work on their short-term goals. 
“We want to improve our foot­work, selection and placement of shots at all times, and continue to believe in our ability to play at a higher level,” Campbell said. “We have the talent to be able to do that.” 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 


page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, March 3, 2010 
UConn 
continued from page 24 
The Irish, Brey said, are prepar­ing as though they will not have Harangody, who missed the last four games because of a bone bruise in his knee. Brey said the team will evaluate the injury on a week-to-week basis rather than a day-to-day basis. 
“A bone bruise takes time,” Brey said. “Each guy’s different and you have to be really, really cautious with it.” 
Brey said if Harangody could not play Wednesday, he could not see him playing Saturday on the road at Marquette and that his status would be re-evaluated next week in preparation for the Big East tournament. 
In Harangody’s absence, junior forward Carleton Scott has stepped up and performed. He scored 17 points and had nine rebounds in Notre Dame’s 78-64 win over No. 19 Georgetown on the road in his third start. 
“Certainly starting, I think, helps a guy get confident,” Brey said. “I think he’s getting very, very com­fortable playing with older guys and getting into a rhythm.” 
Scott has also started shooting the ball well, which Brey said he knew was coming. 
“The man can shoot the ball,” Brey said. “I’ve been waiting for him to shoot the way I think he can shoot.” 
Brey also said Scott was an underrated passer and had passed the ball well all season. 
The play of sophomore guard Kemba Walker, Brey said, was part of what had the Huskies doing so well. Walker has led the team in scoring in four of the past five games, averages 14.8 points per game and scored 28 points in a 78-76 loss to Louisville Sunday. 
For the Irish, junior forward Tim Abromaitis has continued to score. He led the team in scoring in three of the last four games, and in those games he averaged 
23.3 points. He is also third in the Big East in 3-point percentage, making 47.3 of his 3s, and 14th in the nation. 
Brey said slowing down the offense has helped the team limit possessions and find better shots. 
“We either have transition or really patient now,” he said. “There’s not much in between.” 
Tip-off is at 7 p.m. in Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 


Run 
continued from page 24 
more improbably, Notre Dame marched into the Verizon Center and shocked Georgetown by 14 points three days later. 

And in one stunning week, without their future NBA draft pick, the Irish firmly placed them­selves back on the ubiquitous NCAA Tournament bubble. They’ve fought their way back in the conversation, but cementing that status starts with a win tonight. 
Without their star player, the Irish have played an incredible and unselfish brand of basketball. Young players have stepped up to fill the void left by Harangody, and more experienced players like Tory Jackson and Ben Hansbrough have stepped up their scoring and leadership. 
The future without Harangody also suddenly looks brighter, as returning big men like Tyrone Nash, Carleton Scott, Jack Cooley and Mike Broghammer have stepped up for big minutes. Scott had the best game of his career against the Hoyas on Saturday, stealing offensive rebounds from Georgetown players and throwing down big dunks. 
Cooley, who probably has been asked for autographs by people who might think he actually is Harangody, has resembled the big man not just with his appearance but with his play. Cooley played hard-nosed defense on Georgetown 7-footer Greg Monroe, scored four clutch points and grabbed three rebounds. 
All of these players will have to continue to step up the final two games of the regular season and for the Big East tournament. The group has opened up the offense and buckled down defensively against top opponents, but if they drop games to the Huskies and Marquette next week, they’ll be competing for a consolation prize instead of a championship. 
The game tonight is close to an elimination game for both teams. Connecticut is more experienced, more talented and more athletic, yet if the Irish continue to play with the intensity and heart of the past two games, they should pull it out. Either way, one team tonight will leave Purcell Pavilion one step closer to the NCAA Tournament, and the other one step closer to hosting round one of the NIT. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
NHL 

Pens and Leafs complete trade 
Associated Press 

PITTSBURGH — The Pittsburgh Penguins made their second trade in as many days as they look to make another deep playoff run, picking up left wing Alexei Ponikarovsky from the Toronto Maple Leafs for forward Luca Caputi and defenseman Martin Skoula. 
Penguins general manager Ray Shero was pleasantly surprised to add a productive wing with good size — Ponikarovsky is 6-foot-4 — without dealing any top-line play­ers. 
“I didn’t think this was a deal we’d be able to do. If you’d have told me we could do it a few days ago, I’d have said no way,” Shero said Tuesday night. “This gives us a chance to be a good team again. I was happy with our team. We didn’t have to take anything off our team.” 
On Monday, the Penguins acquired defenseman Jordan Leopold from the Florida Panthers for a second-round draft pick. He made his Penguins debut during a 3-2 victory over Buffalo on Tuesday. 
Ponikarovsky has 19 goals and 41 points in 61 games and needs one more goal for his fourth 20­goal season. He has more goals than any wing currently on the Stanley Cup champion Penguins’ roster; Bill Guerin, who plays on Sidney Crosby’s line, has 17 goals. 
In 477 career games, Ponikarovsky has 114 goals, 143 assists, 257 points and a plus-56 rating. He had 23 goals last sea­son. Ponikarovsky was held out of the Leaf’s 5-1 loss to Carolina in Tuesday night before the trade. 


Wednesday, March 3, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 





JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Wednesday, March 3, 2010 page 24 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Race to the finish 

Teamexperiencingarebirth hot team in rematch 
Notre Dame now the without star Harangody 
By BILL BRINK 
This senior class has won more Big 
Sports Writer 

East games than any in Notre Dame history, but tonight’s showdown with Connecticut has had an up-and-
Connecticut might be the biggest of down season, but Notre Dame 
their careers. has yet to meet the Huskies when 
A week ago, this Irish team looked they’re down. 
dead. Luke The first time the teams met, 
Harangody, their the Huskies had won five of six 
All-American, All-games, and beat the Irish 82-70. 
Everything for-Later, they lost five of six. 
ward and leader, But now, Connecticut (17-12, 7­
was out far longer 9 Big East) has won three of four, 
than anyone and comes to town to face a hot 
expected with a Notre Dame (19-10, 8-8) squad 
bone bruise. While on Senior Night. 
the Irish showed 
Michael Bryan 

their resiliency and started the year now,” Irish coach 
“We’re playing the UConn that 

mettle in a double-Mike Brey said. 
overtime loss at 
Sports Writer

Louisville, the bad 15 opponents without senior for-
The Irish recently beat two top-

defeats to Rutgers, ward Luke Harangody and are 
St. John’s and Loyola Marymount making a push to be in considera­
looked to doom Mike Brey’s squad to tion for the NCAA Tournament. 
a second straight NIT appearance. “The power of the Big East 
Then everything clicked. The Irish always presents itself with play-
made every open shot and locked ing our way in,” Brey said. 
down Pittsburgh’s offense in a 
VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer 
blowout at Purcell Pavilion. Even 

Junior forward Tyrone Nash, center, posts up against a Pittsburgh defender in Notre Dame’s see UCONN/page 22 68-53 win on Feb. 24. The Irish play for their tournament lives tonight against Connecticut. see RUN/page 22 



MEN’S GOLF 

Team looking for strong showing at Border Olympics 
ful at the tournament over the selves an opportunity to win The Irish have enjoyed a suc-Kubinski said.
By LUKE MANSOUR 

last couple of seasons. In 2009, come Saturday afternoon.” cessful season so far, recording But the Irish will also need to 
Sports Writer 

the Irish scored a fifth-place As in most tournaments, their first tournament win since count on solid contributions this finish, and in 2007, they held Kubinski said he is focusing on 2006 and receiving several con-weekend from the seniors, 
Notre Dame hopes to get the the lead halfway through before limiting mistakes in the tourna-tributions from underclassmen, many whom have battled second half of its season off to a faltering in the tournament’s ment. including sophomores Max through up and down seasons. good start at the Border second half. Irish coach Jim “The [Border Olympics] is a Scodro and Chris Walker. “We’ve had some tough weeks Olympics tournament this Kubinski said he expects the course where if you drive the Scodro notched a 22nd-place this season but if we can get weekend in Laredo, Texas. team to be able to build off its ball well, you’ll have a number finish on the individual leader-our seniors to play to their 
The Irish will look to improve recent successes in Texas. of birdie chances,” Kubinski board at the Battle of the potential, I think we’re a team upon their 11th-place finish at “The Border Olympics has said. “If we can limit our mis-Beach. Walker lowered his capable of competing favorably the Battle of the Beach two been a good event for us in the takes to bogey at worst, we’ll score each day in the tourna-against the nation’s best,” weeks ago in their first tourna-past, and I think the course sets have a chance to win. Like in ment and finished in 58th place. Kubinski said. ment of 2010. up well for us,” Kubinski said. any event, if we putt well, we’ll “I’ve come to expect [Max and 
The squad has been success-“Our expectation is to give our-place well.” Chris] to be there each week,” see BORDER/page 21 
FENCING 

New challenges await squad 
By LUKE MANSOUR 
Sports Writer 
Undefeated Notre Dame has enjoyed the same kind of regular-season dominance it has in recent years, but the Irish know the most important challenges still lie ahead. 
The Irish (33-0) will face the first of these challenges Saturday when they host the Midwest Fencing Conference Championships at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said he knows his team has a tar­get on its back as it heads into postseason play on its home turf. 
“It is sometimes easier to fence on the road and easier to organize a group when you stay out of the 
see START/page 21 

MEN’S TENNIS 
Individuals shine in Irish loss to Illinois 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The No. 38 Irish fell to No. 12 Illinois yesterday in Champaign despite a strong showing. 
The Irish maintained their changes in the doubles lineup and were able to pull out a win at No. 1 doubles as sophomore Casey Watt and junior Stephen Havens defeated the No. 48 team by a score of 8-4. 
“We switched some of our doubles teams,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “Casey [Watt] was playing with [junior] Tyler [Davis], but now he is playing with Stephen. Nothing is set yet, but it was good to see them pull out a win over Wisconsin over the weekend.” 
The other doubles teams did-n’t have as positive of results as the Irish dropped the doubles point to start off the match. 
Sophomore Niall Fitzgerald and Davis dropped their match at No. 2 doubles to No. 38 Abe Souza and Connor Roth by a score of 8-6. 
Juniors David Anderson and Matt Johnson lost their match 8-1 at No. 3 doubles. 
The Irish were able to come away with two wins in singles starting off with sophomore Sam Keeton, who pulled off a 6­2, 6-1 win at No. 5 singles to get the Irish started. 
“Sam Keeton pulled out the 
see TENNIS/page 21 





