the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Kramer sells portion of portfolio 
By KATLYN SMITH 
News Writer 
Editor’s note: This is the final installment in a two-part series about Kramer Properties and Campus Apartments, which both lease off-campus housing to students in South Bend. 
Local landlord Mark Kramer said selling a portion of his portfolio to Gross and Cohen Real Estate Investors has benefitted his business. 
“I believe that it’s impacted my business in a positive way,” Kramer said. “I’m able to continue with the personal service.” 
Kramer finalized the deal two years ago but continued to manage the properties until the national chain Campus Apartments, hired by Gross and Cohen, took 
over management last spring. 
Maintaining personal inter­actions with students moti­vated Kramer to sell, he said. 
“You get to a point where you get too large, and then you need to bring in more staff, and I’m a hands -on person,” Kramer said. “When I was approached by Gross and Cohen to sell a portion of the portfolio, I just thought it was a good idea so that I could continue to maintain that personal level 


EddyStreetprovidesoff-campusjobs 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Eddy Street Commons, a shopping dining and entertainment area near campus, provides off-campus jobs to the Notre Dame community. 
provide on-campus jobs, some “I needed a job, and I liked 

By LISA CARLSON 

students find they prefer the environment off campus 
News Writer 

working off campus. better,” he said. “I didn’t want Cedric Strickland, a sopho-to be a student worker. I want-
The new additions to Eddy more computer science major ed a real job.” Street to the Notre Dame com-who worked at Hammes Senior Katrina Corcoran also munity provide not only places Bookstore on Eddy Street over found summer employment at to eat, shop and live near the the summer, found the job Eddy Street. University, but jobs as well. while living off-campus for a 
While Notre Dame strives to summer semester.  see EDDY/page 7 

Storms hit; students take cover 

Observer Staff Report 
Students took cover in the low­est level of buildings for about an hour and a half Tuesday morn­ing after the University issued a campus-wide alert notifying the community of a tornado threat. 
The University informed stu­dents via e-mail, phone calls, text messages and overhead announcements to take cover. The messages called the threat “imminent.” 
No tornado occurred, but winds reached more than 70 mph, the South Bend Tribune reported. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said there was no dam­age on campus besides “a couple branches [down] here and there.” 
Brown said the branches did not hit any buildings and he was not aware of any trees that came down. 
see SEVERE/page 7 


of business with my clientele, the students of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s.” 
Kramer gave no advanced notification to students who had signed a lease with Kramer Properties. 
“It’s a sensitive process, but I did notify them once the process was complete via e-mail and expressed to them that please feel free to call me so that I could help them with any transition sit­uations, which many of them did,” Kramer said. 
Kramer said he would not hire a national chain to man-
see KRAMER/page 6 




Week seeks to raise alcohol awareness 

LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 
sponsoring Alcohol Awareness 

By JOHN CAMERON 
Week on campus. 
News Writer 
“It’s extremely relevant to college students and their 

As part of the ongoing efforts lifestyle,” student body presi­to inform Notre Dame students dent Catherine Soler said. “We about the use and misuse of think promoting education and alcohol, the Office of Drug and awareness, not necessarily Alcohol Education, PILLARS and student government are see ALCOHOL/page 6 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Alum reflects on musical journey page 3  Now and Then: Senior Bar page 10  Football: Ian Williams’ injury page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Wednesday, October 27, 2010 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 

Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 

SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 

and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Meaghan Veselik Alicia Smith Allan Joseph Sara Felsenstein Joe Wirth 

Graphics Scene 
Lisa Hoeynck Jordan Gamble 

Photo Viewpoint 
Coleman Collins Patricia Fernandez 


CORRECTIONS 

An Oct. 7 article titled “Grads work to make a differ­ence” misquoted what 1981 alumnus Terrence Keeley said about the Financial Hippocratic Oath. Keeley said the Financial Hippocratic Oath is based on the Golden Rule and relates to the relationship between financial service providers and their clients. It has nothing to do with relationships between competitors, as stated in the article. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHERE WERE YOU DUR NG THE TORNADO WARN NG? 







Bob Besio  Brendan Kiefer  Kyle Roshak  Lauren Hoedeman  Nate Lee  
freshman  senior  senior  senior  junior  
Alumni  Off-campus  Dillon  Ryan  Stanford  
“My room.”  “What  “The spacious  “Trapped in the  “Huddled in the  
tornado?”  basement of  basement of  basement of  
Dillon Hall.”  South Dining  Stanford with  
Hall.”  200 of my  
closest friends.”  


PAT COVENEY/The Observer A tornado warning was issued for St. Joseph County Tuesday morning. Here trees in McGlinn Fields bend beneath the wind. Students, faculty, and staff were held up in the basements of various buildings from 9:30 to 10:45 a.m. 


OFFBEAT 

Man calls cab to make robbery getaway 
MISSOULA, Mont. – Police in Montana say a man robbed a bank and then called a taxi to make his getaway, tipping the driver $5 just before squad cars surrounded the cab. Taxi driver James Anderson told the Missoulian the man was acting strangely when he picked him up at a Missoula coffee shop. 
He said the man first asked to be taken to the University of Montana cam­pus, but couldn’t give Anderson a specific loca­tion. The man then asked to be taken to a hotel, but not before stopping to buy cigarettes. 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
The Special Olympics Notre Dame will be selling T-shirts on the first floor of LaFortune today from 8 to 10 p.m. The shirts are $5 each and they will be accepting Domer Dollars or cash. 
The Debartolo Performing Arts Center will host the world premiere of the Sean Curran Company’s “Left Exit,” today at 7 p.m. Left Exit is a dance performance that examines spirituality, faith and religion, illuminating our core desire to search for significance and purpose in one’s life. Tickets can be purchased online at performingarts.nd.edu or at the DPAC box office. 
Lisa Morje Howard will present the lecture, U.S. Foreign Policy and the Illiberal Peace, Thursday at 
12:30 p.m. in C-103 of the Hesburgh Center. Howard is an Assistant Professor in the Department of Government at Georgetown University. The lecture is free and open to the public. 
The Debartolo Performing Arts Center will present the film: It’s Hard Being Loved by Jerks Thursday at 6:30 p.m. The film is an incisive exami­nation of the complex, often conflicting issues of free speech, self-censorship, secu­larism, and assimilation 
RecSports will be accepting entries for CoRec Broomball, CoRec Innertube Water Polo and Campus Badminton Singles until 11 p.m. on Thursday, Entries are limited and will be accepted on a first come, first serve basis. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

The cab fare was $7.50, and Anderson said the man tipped him $5 as they arrived at the hotel. Officers then pulled up and surrounded the taxi with guns drawn. 
Police allege the man earlier entered a downtown bank, told a teller he had a weapon and demanded money. No one was injured. 
Charges have not yet been filed, and the man’s name wasn’t released. 
Man on all-spud diet wishes he set goal of one month 
MOSES LAKE, Wash. – The Washington state man who’s on a 60-day all-potato diet wishes he would have set a goal of one month instead of two. 
Chris Voigt told the Tri-City Herald that — as good and healthy as potatoes are — there’s only so many ways they can be prepared. And, about halfway through his tuber diet, he’s had them boiled, baked, steamed, grilled, fried, marinated and mashed. 
The Moses Lake man is executive director of the Washington Potato Commission and is on a mission to prove spuds aren’t junk food. 
For variety Voigt soaked one potato in pickle juice. And his wife made him potato ice cream. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday 


Wednesday, October 27, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 





Alum finds success with classical music group 


46 states,” Quigley said. “I the Top Ten.” 2.” Firebird Chamber Orchestra 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 

couldn’t find a downside to Quigley said this “viral That same year, the group and various choral ensembles. 
News Writer 

being involved in music.” moment” caught the attention also began performing with Quigley said the group has two 
After following his interests of the National Public Radio the Miami Symphony more albums due out within 
When Patrick Dupre Quigley to a master’s degree in con-program “All Things Orchestra, and Quigley decid-the next few months, including came to Notre Dame as a ducting from Yale University, Considered,” which did a seg-ed to commit to the group as a Christmas recording and a freshman in the fall of 1996, Quigley currently serves as the ment on the group and its its full-time artistic director. disc with the Firebird he was unaware that his par-founding artistic director for grassroots publicity methods. “At that point, only two peo-Orchestra. ticipation in campus choral Seraphic Fire, a Miami-based The effects of this national ple worked for the group — “Our goal for the future is to ensembles would provide him professional choral ensemble attention for the group were myself and the office manag-expand our recorded legacy with a clear that performs classical, renais-unprecedented. er/grant writer,” Quigley said. because there’s a big shift career path 
sance, baroque and secular “Within an hour of the pro-“Now the organization is much away from the traditional into music, 
music. gram’s airing, the album hit bigger and involves more per-recording model for classical let alone 
Their recent collaboration number one on the iTunes formers.” music to the new digital music help his 
with the Western Michigan classical charts,” Quigley said. A number of the group’s per-economy,” Quigley said. “One musical 
University Chorale, Claudio “We remained on the best sell-formers were doctoral stu-of the great things about our group top 
Monteverdi: Vespers of the er list for over a month, and dents at the University of album’s success is that the Lady Gaga 
Blessed Virgin 1610, was one day we even beat out Lady Miami who eventually went on power of large record labels in on the iTunes 
released in August, reached Gaga.” to become music professors or digital distribution of classical charts this 
the No. 1 spot on the iTunes Seraphic Fire’s commercial full-time professional musi-music is diminished, but word past sum-classical charts and outsold success comes eight years cians who perform with operas of mouth is much more impor­mer. Lady Gaga’s The Fame after Quigley first became and symphonies or in choral tant in promoting our product 
“I helped found The Monster at one point. involved with the group, short-ensembles around the country, in the digital world.” Undertones during my fresh-The 64 performers who ly after he completed graduate Quigley said. Quigley said the demograph­man year and served as their appeared on the album — school and relocated to Miami In fact, the members of ic of iTunes customer is gener­music director for four years,” including 12 members of to work as the music director Seraphic Fire are all profes-ally much younger than the Quigley, a 2000 Notre Dame Seraphic Fire and 40 members for a large Catholic parish. sional musicians or professors, traditional classical music con-graduate, said. “Working with of the Western Michigan “While I was working at the and none perform with the sumer, usually assumed to be that group taught me that University Chorale — har-church, I met a number of pro-group full-time. affluent people over the age of there is a market for vocal nessed the power of the fessional singers who were Seraphic Fire, now in its 55. music out there, and I realized Internet and word of mouth to section leaders in one of the ninth season, comprises 40 The popularity of Seraphic that I wanted to be a conduc-publicize their new album and seven church choirs I direct-members from around the Fire’s album on iTunes leads tor.” garnered outstanding results, ed,” Quigley said. country and performs about 65 Quigley to believe that his 
As a music theory major and Quigley said. Quigley and a group of eight concerts per season, mostly in group has successfully member of The Undertones “When the disc was released, professional vocalists initially Miami and other southern “cracked the egg that is the and the Glee Club, Quigley iTunes featured it on their performed three concerts as Florida metropolitan areas, digital music economy.” explored his interest in music classical homepage,” Quigley Seraphic Fire, but the group Quigley said. “If younger people are buy-and had the opportunity to said. “From there, I tagged all expanded significantly over the The group did perform in ing classical music on iTunes, travel the world as a per-the members of the ensemble next three years to the point Mexico City in May, and it will that means that classical former during his time at in a post on Facebook, and where Quigley could no longer travel to the Midwest twice music is alive and well, and Notre Dame. they shared the iTunes link to direct the group as a mere side this winter, including a concert new audiences are being 
“My interest in music was the album on their Facebook project. at Notre Dame on Jan. 19. exposed to it,” Quigley said. twofold: I really loved the pages. It got to the point where During its third year of exis-Additionally, the group often “It’s incredibly heartening.” music we performed, and at people I knew from grade tence, Seraphic Fire was invit-collaborates with other ensem-Notre Dame, I was able to per-school started publicizing the ed to record with Shakira on bles in its performances and Contact Kristen Durbin at form in three continents and album, which propelled it to her album, “Oral Fixation, Vol. recordings, such as the kdurbin@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, October 27, 2010 Wednesday, October 27, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 


COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Membersapprove‘The Shirt’presidentnominee 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR) voted to approve the nominee for presi­dent of The Shirt Project 2011 and discussed Alcohol Awareness Week, which is co­sponsored by student govern­ment, at its meeting Tuesday. 
Senior Christian Gigante, president of The Shirt 2010, gave members an update on the successes of last year’s Shirt, which has sold 145,000 shirts so far, approaching the record 155,000 shirts sold in 2006. 
The profit from The Shirt sales benefits various campus clubs and organizations, the rector funds and The Shirt Project Fund, which assists stu­dents with serious accidents or illnesses, Gigante said. 

“That number, hopefully, will be close to $700,000 which is pretty exciting,” Gigante said. 
Gigante, who is responsible for the preliminary choice of the new president, introduced jun­ior Lauren Marzouca, the nomi­nated student. 
Marzouca, a pre-professional major from McGlinn Hall, said she was excited to be president of the Project because she feels students should be reminded of where the money from the Project goes. 
“I want to be president because I don’t think people really know where the money goes. The money goes back to the students and people who need it,” Marzouca said. “It means something more than just another T-shirt.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 




Lecture explores faith, science 
As Snow mentioned, the and refused to “Recognition of the Hoover said. lecture, put on by Saint marry a non -infnite gives the Hoover Mary’s Center for Spirituality, Catholic. Morse h i g h l i g h t e d 
scientist the humility
was “a very broad overview converted, and one of Morse’s 
to make great
of one man’s philosophy of was a strong many philoso­the link between science and advocate of his discoveries.” phies, which religion.” faith ever since, stated that Snow and Hoover Snow said. “both religion 
Colleen Hoover 
addressed many topics, According to and science 
Professor of Mathematics 
including the development of Hoover, Morse recognize the 
each other; rather, they com­plement each other. 
Morse’s philosophy stated that there is no conflict between science, philosophy and theology, Hoover said. 
Morse argued that any spark of conflict between these fields would only arise due to misunderstanding of 
the definition 
of “science,” 

By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writer 
Mathematics Professor Joanne Snow and associate mathematics Professor Colleen Hoover presented “Faith and Reason in the Life and Work of Mathematician Marston Morse” at Saint Mary ’s Believing Scholars Lecture Tuesday. 
children and on top of that, providing many insights into the field of mathematics. 
Morse fathered the Morse Theory, helpful in the study of topology of mathematical space, Snow said. 
Morse was raised as a staunch Baptist until his future wife entered his life. Louise Morse was a Catholic, 


power and limitations of reason.” 
“Morse believed that faith is as much needed in science as in religion,” Hoover said. 
Spirituality’s study of the infinite, Morse argued, great­ly complements science. 
“Recognition of the infinite gives the scientist the humili­ty to make great discoveries,” Hoover said. 
Snow said Morse believed that “without faith, science lacks the wonder and awe” of discovery. 
Morse was not a stranger to the Notre Dame community. 
According to Snow, he knew many influential people, including Einstein and Notre Dame’s own Father Hesburgh. Morse was con­sulted in the renovation of the Notre Dame math depart­ment, and he donated many 
b o o k s  t o  t h e  H e s b u r g h  
Library,  
D e s p i t e  a l r e a d y  h a v i n g  

written an article about a connection between Morse’s work and the arts, it was the study of Morse’s connection between science and religion that most interested Snow, she said. 
She said her research on this topic gave her “a greater respect and admiration of the man.” 
Sarah McCroy, a junior Mathematics and Business major at Saint Mary’s, also discovered a greater respect for Morse. 
“Studying as a mathemati­cian, I like to look for ways I can use my study to learn more about my faith, ” McCroy said. “I look to exam­ples, such as Morse, to understand how they use their field of study to reflect on their faith.” 
Sister Kathleen Dolphin, director of the Center for Spirituality, said this student reaction was the ideal out­come of the event. 
“Students seem to be inter­ested in the connection between faith and reason. The Center for Spirituality’s goal is to address these ques­tions in an academic way.” 
In particular, Dolphin said she wanted to help students address the current problem of science versus spirituality. 

Contact Caitlin Housley at Chousl01@saintmarys.edu 

Morse’s spiritual life, his phi­losophy that religion supports science and the influence of faith on Morse’s personal and professional life. 
According to Snow and Hoover, Morse was very pro­lific, writing many books and articles, serving his country in times of war, raising seven was not afraid to stand up for his newfound Catholic faith. He was not afraid to correct the miscon­ceptions and false assump­tions others had about the Catholic Church. 
In their lecture, Snow and Hoover argued science and religion do not contradict 


page 6 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, October 27, 2010 


Alcohol 
continued from page 1 
abstinence from drinking alto­gether, but more responsible behavior is always a good thing.” 
While Soler said she does not think the drinking situation at Notre Dame is especially alarming relative to most uni­versities, she said it is still an important issue to keep in mind. 
“We’ve been doing some benchmarking for other off-campus issues at other schools. At Boston College they have a really big drinking problem right now,” Soler said. “It’s the mindset in college and at big universities that every­thing needs to have a pregame. I think it’s a national trend and something to keep an eye on.” 
Soler said informing students through events like Alcohol Awareness Week is important to preventing drinking at Notre Dame from becoming a prob­lem. 
“I don’t think we’ve reached the point at Notre Dame where we need to panic, but hopefully by raising awareness we won’t have a problem,” Soler said. 
Soler said she thinks the University’s alcohol policies put students in a slightly dif­ferent position compared to other college students. 
“I do think it’s unique that we don’t have a dry campus,” she said. “We think it’s an opportunity that we’re trusted with a little responsibility in the dorms that we should take advantage of it by being 

responsible with what we’re  bu t I’ m t o t al ly app roach -incident.  
doing.”  able.” Kramer  According to Murdy, the  
To help with the educational  A s e c u r  i t y f i r m p a t r o l s house’s security system was  
aspect of the week, Monday kicked off an informational  continued from page 1 Kramer’s pp.m. to 6  roperties from 6 n o t o n , a n d a b u r g l a r a.m. daily. Each c r a w l e d t hr ou g h a n op e n  
campaign, which included  age his properties, including property has  a security sys-window and allegedly stole  
posters, cab phone number  75 houses, Lafayette Square tem, peeph oles in every door an iPod and some speakers.  
cards distributed to dorms  Townhomes and 20 apart-and motion  sensors. Kramer “He was there later that  
along with various events later  ments. said incidents  concerning afternoon and fixed it all for  
in the week.  “If I decided someday that security have decreased.  us,” Murdy said.  
“They’re going to be table  I wanted to retire, I would “We’ve h ad less incidents M u r d y s a i d s t u d e n t s  
tents in the dining halls, we’re  not bring a national chain to t h a n w e ’  v e h a d i n p a s t should co mmuni ca te with  
planning a big poster cam- m a n a g e m y c o m p a n y, ” years,” Kra mer said. “I think Kramer.  
paign on The Wall and in aca- Kramer said. “I would hire t h a t h a s s  o m e t h i n g t o d o “He’s really easy to get in  
demic buildings. They’re going  my family and that’s why we with student awareness.”  touch with,” Murdy said.  
to have beer goggles and dif­ h a v e s u c c e s s i o n p l a n s i n Kramer s aid he is “active-Senior Eileen Bingle lives  
ferent activities out on  place.” ly” leasing  for next year. in a five-person house man- 
Fieldhouse Mall” Soler said.  Living in South Bend his “ To me ,  i t’s bus ine ss as a g e d b y K r a m e r o n S a i n t  
“We’re also having a mock tail- whole life, Kramer has been usual ,” K ramer said. “My Louis Boulevard.  
gate on Saturday before the  in the student housing busi­business is  active as it’s ever “It was a little disconcert- 
game.”  n e s s f o r 2 0  been and popu­i n g t h a t h e h a d d r o p p e d  
The events at Fieldhouse  y e a r s .  lar as it’s ever some of the people that had  
Mall include an information  Kramer said “If I decided someday  been.” originally signed with him,  
table with free non-alcoholic  K r a m e r that I wanted to  A c c o r d i n g t o but as far as what I’ve expe­ 
“mocktails” from 11 a.m. to 1  Properties is  Kramer, houses rienced personally, I have no  
p.m. Thursday and a “Food  a “ f a m i l y retire, I would not  l eas e f or $ 42 5 p r o b l e m b e i n g u n d e r  
and Fun” event on Friday from  b u s i n e s s ” bring a national  per month, and Kramer management,” she  
10:30 p.m. to midnight, spon­ w h e r e h i s chain to manage my  L a f a y e t t e said.  
sored by Student Activities  w i f e m a n - T o w n h o m e s B i n g l e s a i d K r a m e r h a s  
Office.  a g e s t h e company. I would hire  l eas e f or $ 32 5 r e s p o n d e d t o t h e “ f e w ”  
Soler said she hopes this  f r o n t o f f i c e my family and that’s  unfurnished and i s s u es she and h er room- 
weeks programming will not  a t 8 1 2 E a s t why we have  $395 fully fur-mates had in a prompt man- 
only enable students to be  L a S a l l e  nished. ner.  
smarter and safer with alcohol  S t r e e t i n sucession plans in  K r a m e r h a s “We had mice, which was  
but will also help improve the  South Bend. place.”  n o p l a n s t o a little scary, but he came  
standing of students in the  “That’s not  r e t i r e o r s e l l over and had an extermina­ 
community.  a c o m p a n y Mark Kramer  any more prop-tor come in right away and  
“I think there’s a lot of things  name on my  erties. took care of the problem,”  
we can take away from this  b u i l d i n g , ” landlord  “ I s t i l l h a v e Bingle said.  
week as far as thinking of  Kramer said.  t h e d e s i r e t o Bingle said she values off- 
drinking in a different way, or  “ T h a t ’s m y  continue on and campus living.  
of the consequences,” she said.  name. It’s not a big corpo­have fun i n my business,” “I t’s reall y a real-world  
“I think we can definitely  rate name that’s sort of a K r a m e r s  a i d . “ S t u d e n t s experience dealing with pay- 
improve our situation in the  shield, and that’s why I use make me young.”  ing bills, and things like that  
community if we can be more  my name.” Senior De irdre Murdy lives will help me in the future,”  
responsible with the drinking  Kramer said his personal in a house  on South Bend Bingle said. “It’s a lot of fun  
and improving our attitude  service makes him unique in Avenue. M urdy said she and living with your friends in  
towards alcohol.”  light of his competitors. her roommates  approached your house.”  

Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 

“My students can call me directly,” Kramer said. “I’m the owner of the business, Kramer about installing additional motion sensors the morning after a security 

Contact Katlyn Smith at ksmith33@nd.edu 


Wednesday, October 27, 2010 The Observer . NEWS page 7 


Eddy 
continued from page 1 
“I was here over the summer for summer classes and saw that Kildare’s was opening,” Corcoran said. “I knew that working at an Irish pub would be a lot of fun, or ‘craic’ as the Irish say, and, on the more practical side, more lucrative than continuing to work on campus. It is very convenient and adds balance to your life as an ND student.” 
When it comes to balancing school with work, though, on-campus jobs win out, Strickland said. 
“Working at Kildare’s is more intense than where I have previously worked [on campus] because you are con­stantly waiting on customers and helping out in the kitchen. Fridays before game days I normally go seven to eight hours without taking a break,” Corcoran said. 

Off-campus jobs can also be used as a supplement to on-campus jobs students already have. 
In addition to being a wait­ress at Kildare’s, Corcoran still works at the Center for the Study of Language. Strickland said he also worked at The Huddle and Legends in addi­tion to the bookstore on Eddy Street. 
“I ended up having two jobs 

— I worked at Legends as well as the bookstore — and that meant balancing everything with coursework,” Strickland said. “On campus is more flexible. Off campus would work around my school sched­ule, but they wouldn’t work around Legends.” 
In spite of this, students still like working off campus. 
“My favorite part has been meeting more people from the South Bend area,” Corcoran said. “I feel like I am finally learning more about South Bend after being here for three years. I have also had the chance to meet [football] coach [Brian] Kelly, [former Irish football player Daniel] “Rudy” [Ruettiger] and [former Irish football player] Jim Flanagan while working at Kildare’s.” 
Contact Lisa Carlson at lcarlso2@nd.edu 
of the alerts — through text mes­
sages, phone calls, e-mail, the 



Severe 

University website and the public continued from page 1 address system — was effective in getting the word out to stu-
The University sent out the dents, faculty and staff. first alert around 9:10 a.m. and The public address system, asked everyone on campus to go which was activated last spring, to the lowest was a “very effec­
level of a build­ing. A second message was  “I think for the most part the combination  tive tool” for mak­ing an emergency a n n o u n c e m e n t ,  
sent  out  at  of tools that we used  Brown said.  
10:26 a.m. reporting that the warning had  to alert the campus worked well.”  “I think for the most part the com­bination of tools  
been extended.  that  we  used  to  
The University gave the “all clear” for stu- Dennis Brown University spokesman  alert the campus worked well,” he said. “It was a dis- 
dents to return  ruption this morn- 

to normal activity at 10:46 a.m., ing, but I think most people were Brown said. able to cope and go to the lowest Brown said the “redundancy” level and wait it out.” 


Christie calls off construction 
Associated Press 
TRENTON, N.J. — New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie is standing firm on calling off the biggest public works project under way in the country — a multibillion-dollar rail tunnel under the Hudson River linking his state with New York City, officials said Tuesday. 
Christie is sticking by a deci­sion he made more than two weeks ago, when he argued the state can’t afford to pay any overruns on the $9 billion-plus project, an official familiar with the decision told The Associated Press. The official spoke on condition of anonymity because an announcement had not been made. 
Construction began last year on the tunnel, which has been in the works for 20 years. It’s designed to supplement a cen­tury-old two-track tunnel and would double train capacity between New York and its pop­ulous New Jersey suburbs. 

The Republican governor was given four financial options for salvaging the project, including one plan that eliminated his state’s risk for paying cost over­runs, said an aide to Sen. Frank Lautenberg who also spoke on condition of anonymity. Lautenberg, a Democrat, has been a vocal proponent of the tunnel. 
The Star-Ledger of Newark reported that federal officials offered to improve financing terms but offered no new money. The newspaper first reported the decision, citing three officials close to the proj­ect. 
Lautenberg said that he urged the U.S. Transportation Department to give Christie options to minimize New Jersey’s financial risk and that federal officials complied. 
“The federal government demonstrated its strong com­mitment to building this tunnel, but it was clear from the begin­ning that Gov. Christie planned to kill this project no matter what,” the senator said in a statement that stopped short of confirming the governor’s deci­sion. 
An official announcement is expected Wednesday. 
Christie said Tuesday after a town hall meeting in Monmouth Junction that he would “make the decision when I’m ready.” 
Later in the day, spokes­woman Maria Comella declined to confirm reports the project was dead, saying only: “We’re not commenting on this until we make a formal and public announcement.” 


Joint-effort research project receives grant 
Special to The Observer 
The National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded a five-year, $5 million grant to a research project titled “Science of Integration for Cyber-Physical Systems,” in which Panos Antsaklis, H.C. and E.A. Brosey Professor of Engineering at the University of Notre Dame, is playing a key role. 
The project is a joint effort of Notre Dame, Vanderbilt University, the University of Maryland and General Motors Research and Development Center. Vanderbilt will lead the project and Notre Dame will be in charge of its theoretical aspects, under a $1.5-million agreement. In addition to Antsaklis, Vijay Gupta from Notre Dame’s Department of Electrical Engineering and William Goodwine from its Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering will participate in the research effort. 
“This is a highly competitive and very prestigious NSF award,” Antsaklis said. “The project aims to develop the the­ory, methods and tools to build Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS), by combining seamlessly the necessary heterogeneous com­putational and physical compo­nents. The Notre Dame team will be using theoretical con­cepts such as passivity and symmetry to address system uncertainties and the interde­pendence of design concerns. The scientific results will be validated on a GM electrical vehicle automotive test-bed.” 
Industry has long recognized the huge significance of systems integration and regarded it as a grand challenge. The NSF fund­ed project is designed to solve this challenging problem. 
“Cyber-physical systems are physical, biological and engi­neered systems whose opera­tions are monitored, coordinat­ed, controlled and integrated by a computing and communica­tion core,” Antsaklis said. “As computers become ever-small­er, faster and more efficient, and communication networks become better and ever cheap­er, computing and communica­tion capabilities are being embedded in all types of objects and structures in the physical environment. This intimate cou­pling between the cyber and physical will be manifested from the nano-world to large scale, wide-area systems of sys­tems, and at multiple time scales.” 


The Observer 


Viewpoint 
page 8 Wednesday, October 27, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Not how I roll 
When Dayne Crist failed to run the ball into the end zone on Notre Dame’s first drive Saturday against Navy, the die-hard Irish faithful sit­ting around me nearly coughed up their gourmet California Rolls in disgust. 
Yes, you read that right. Sushi, at a football game, in the same stadi­um where the famously rugged and tough New York Jets and 


Chris Allen 
New York Giants play. 
Sushi at a 

Assistant 
sporting event? 

Sports Editor 
At a profession­al sporting event? At a football game? That’s not how I roll. 
It seems to be the trend in athletic stadiums these days to cater to the upscale crowd. The average Joe who values his tickets and lives and dies by his team has fallen out of favor as professional sports have become increasingly corporate. Perhaps the biggest issue that people have with this trend is rising ticket prices. 
But I’ll leave that for another col­umn. 
For my purposes, let’s assume the average Joe has his ticket and is through the stadium gates. The atmosphere that meets him inside New Meadowlands Stadium (or the new Cowboys Stadium in Dallas, or any number of new sports palaces) isn’t a sporting event anymore — it’s a glorified cocktail party. On my way to my seat at the Navy game, I passed a well-furnished and stylish bar, a sushi station, a soup vendor, a Food Network concession and a little nook that resembled a fancy Italian restaurant, wood-fired pizza oven and all. It took me about three min­utes of searching to find a place that served a plain hot dog. 
Ticket prices aside, this is the most alarming problem for the die-hard sports fan. It’s part of the reason that I disliked the beautiful new stadium in North Jersey that will one day host the Super Bowl. The seats are beau­tiful, the sight lines are perfect, and the JumboTrons were awe-inspiring in size and clarity. The whole thing just feels so ... urbane. 
To make this point hit home with more Notre Dame fans, just consider one of the most contentious Viewpoint discussions of the year: cheering (and the various levels of intensity that students have displayed in it). Long story short, I think we can all agree that if you go to the game and want your team to win, you belong in the stands, cheering your team on as you deem fit. If Notre Dame Stadium was equipped with the same overabundance of amenities as the newer pro stadiums, a good chunk of the fans would enjoy the game from a lounge inside the stadium. That’s not sports. That’s a travesty. Give me a hot dog, a good seat and a cold drink, and I’m happy. I hope others share my devotion to the game being played on the field. If they don’t, let them eat sushi. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Chris Allen at Callen10@nd.edu 

Looking for good role models 
The other day I was reading in the bathroom, as I normally do when nature calls. The book I had (hastily) selected for my time of need was an English translation of “Cyrano de Bergerac.” For 
those not in the  Brooks Smith  
know: Cyrano is  
an unusually elo- Intellectual  
quent man who  
also bears the  

unfortunate cross of a longer-than­average nose, rendering him unat­tractive to women. He is in love with his cousin Roxanne, but she prefers the handsome Christian, but Christian is really dumb, so Cyrano nobly decides to help Christian seduce Roxanne by putting words in his mouth. Christian dies in battle before he and Roxanne can consummate their marriage, and Cyrano nobly hides his role in the seduction from Roxanne until he is on his deathbed. 
Now Cyrano used to be one of my favorite stories, and I’m still carried along by the sheer momentum and craft of the play. But rereading it in the water closet yesterday I had a revelation: Romantically speaking, Cyrano is a terrible role model. And that started me thinking of all the other terrible role models in literary history — among them Cinderella, Romeo and Juliet, and Edward Cullen. 
Why is it that it’s so difficult to accurately portray a functional rela­tionship? One answer might be that dysfunction makes for more com­pelling reading. There must be a rea-


EDITORIAL CARTOON 
son most fairy tales end with “and then they lived happily ever after.” But is it that all the interesting stuff happens before the ending — or that capturing “happily ever after” in less nebulous terms is beyond the literary skill of the tale-spinner? 
But the vague-out of “happily ever after” is by far less pernicious than the romanticisation of tragedy and drama which works like “Cyrano” and “Romeo and Juliet” perpetuate. Where “happily ever after” simply glazes over the inevitable difficulties in sustaining a serious romantic com­mitment, tragic romances like these actively work against the goal of find­ing a happy relationship. 
“Cyrano” is bad because it hides Cyrano’s fear of rejection under the guise of his lavish self-sacrifice. When Christian comes along it’s a huge relief for Cyrano: all of his pent-up emotion can finally have a safe channel that won’t damage his rela­tionship with Roxanne. Roxanne doesn’t have to put on the red light for Cyrano (telling him to stop), she can green-light Christian’s forward progress. As much as Cyrano proves his courage on the battlefield, in love he is a coward. 
“Romeo and Juliet,” one of the best-known and worst-written of Shakespeare’s plays, is equally awful. Its status as an archetype belies the monumental stupidity of all charac­ters, not least that of R and J them­selves. It’s actually painful to read how much angst and perfectly metered, excellently rhymed, terrible teen poetry Shakespeare managed to pack into this play. What truly galls is that at the end Shakespeare has the Prince of Verona declare, “For never was a story of more woe/Than this of Juliet and her Romeo,” thereby ele­vating their callow and foolish actions to an inappropriately large scale. Flawless execution of a bad idea doesn’t make the idea any better (see: Twilight, Showgirls, Pride and Prejudice and Zombies). 
It may be as hard to write about a good relationship as it is to have a good relationship, and no doubt most writers have managed neither. Or to be more exact: it may be as hard to write well about a good relationship as it is to have one — documentations of happy relationships from the par­ties involved tend to be cloying and irritating (if Facebook is a good barometer of such things). So there’s the challenge: write a story about a happy relationship that can’t be turned into a self-help book for the lonely or anthologized in “Chicken Soup For The Soul.” I will offer a large monetary prize to the winner of this contest, which I’m calling the Burger King Love Story Contest in hopes of attracting a certain wealthy corporate sponsor. Submissions can be anytime between now and my graduation. Let’s get it started. 
Brooks Smith is a senior. He can be contacted at bsmith26@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“To win without risk is to triumphwithout glory.” 
Pierre Corneille French author 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Stress is an ignorant state. It believes that everything is an emergency. Nothing is thatimportant.” 
Natalie Goldberg
U.S. author 

The Observer 


Viewpoint 
Wednesday, October 27, 2010 page 9 
UWIRE 

Internet overload affects our attention spans 
The likelihood of you finishing this col­umn is not good. 
These first two sentences are already boring you. 
After a few more words your eyes are going to scan down until something else 
Nick Pelster 
catches their atten­tion, and from there Daily you may read a little 
Nebraskan 
longer, skim to the last paragraph, and finally move on to the next page. 
Don’t worry, I won’t be offended. 
It’s not your fault. 
It might not even be my fault. 
Instead, blame the Internet. 

Not only is it changing our brains, but it’s changing society. 
Those reading online will say, “Of course, there’s always something better to find on the Internet than the Daily Nebraskan.” 
Maybe so, but that doesn’t explain why your patience ran out after a few seconds. 
And if you’re waiting for class to start and your laptop is stashed away at home, this excuse doesn’t work so well. 
The blame would theoretically fall back on me for producing a boring column. 
But maybe not. 

We have limited patience because our brain is being rewired to prefer reading brief segments of information over long blocks of text. 
Shortened attention spans aren’t only the result of countless distractions sur­rounding us throughout the day, but also what those things do to the neurological pathways transferring data through our brains. 
So while the Internet gives us libraries of information at our fingertips and has revo­lutionized worldwide communication, it might also be making us dumber than the generations before us. 
Is it all worth it? 

Is losing the ability of deep, contempla­tive thought and long, deliberate reading worth the benefits of a hyper-connected race with the ability to ‘know’ anything after a .18 second Google search? 
Nicholas Carr’s latest book, “The Shallows,” asks these same questions. 
However, as Carr points out, the idea of technology degrading human intelligence is nothing new. 
He cites Greek philosopher Plato’s “Phaedrus,” in which Socrates tells the story of an Egyptian god discussing the new invention of reading with a prince of Egypt named Thamus. 
Although the ancient Greeks were the first civilization to put together an effective alphabet, they didn’t trust the written word, instead favoring those with skills in oration and memorization. 
Plato makes this clear through the prince, Thamus, who said the ability to write “will implant forgetfulness in (peo­ple’s) souls: they will cease to exercise memory because they rely on that which is written… (the written word) is a recipe not for memory, but for reminder… They will seem to know much, while for the most part they will know nothing.” 
The argument between Thamus and the Egyptian god could easily be applied to our ability to learn and the negative conse­quences of Google. 
The former represents the potential for deep, lifelong knowledge in a subject, while the latter grants us endless access to information within seconds of wanting it, but it’s longevity in our minds is reliant upon our limited memory (as opposed to the infinite cloud of online information) to save it. 
Yet, in this particular case, Thamus was wrong. 
Over the next two millennia, the ability to read and write brought literacy, commu­nication and history to the masses. 
It accelerated the development of human society and culture more in those 2,000 years than in the 200,000 before it. 
In fact, all changes in how we read and write throughout history were made to make reading more efficient. 
The Greeks read aloud because words wereruntogetherlikethis, a slow, clunky process difficult to pick up without years of schooling. 
Because of this, the poor weren’t learn­ing how to read much more than the occa­sional street sign. 
After words were broken up, hardbound books (as opposed to scrolls, which are impractical and difficult to navigate) made research easier for ancient scholars. 
In 1450 the Gutenberg press was intro­duced and eventually made reading acces­sible to the lower classes of society. 
Again, every new technology and innova­tion in reading and writing has, as a whole, made us collectively smarter and better off than before. 
So why would the Internet be any differ­ent? 
Evolution has nothing to do with our ability to read better than our ancestors; 2,500 years of reading with an alphabet is a sliver of time on the geologic scale of human existence. 
As a species who, for most of our being, needed to be acutely alert of our surround­ings to avoid predators and other humans, long periods of blinding focus on one thing goes against the evolved physical makeup of our brains. 
Learning to read and write takes a con­siderable amount of time, and forces the brain to rewire itself in the process. 
Therefore it is in our nature to focus our attention from one thing to another more so than to read a long book or engage in meditation. 
Surfing the web may be more natural to us than reading a book, but that doesn’t mean it’s better. 
With our attention spans shrinking because of the Internet’s bombardment of distractions, we lose the ability to form long-term memory. 
Because of everything occupying our attention, our short-term, or working, memory is laboring overtime to keep up. 
And as Carr states in “The Shallows,” “The depth of our intelligence hinges on our ability to transfer information from working memory to long-term memory and weave it into conceptual schemas (the concepts which aid us in complex decision making).” 
These schemas are responsible for the creativity and original ideas that are need­ed to solve complex problems. 
All of which are critical to the further advancement of society. 
But with Facebook, Twitter, blogs, e­mail, text messaging, television, smart phones and more often being engaged all at once, the information overload is weak­ening our long-term memory, and the intu­itive wisdom that goes with decision mak­ing is being lost with it. 
So what does it mean for society if we are losing our attention spans while gain­ing access to vast amounts of information at the same time? 
For students it makes long reading assignments harder to digest, and lengthy papers require even more time and focus to write. 
It may be good for a stock broker to be able to scan through piles of information in a short time, but for a lawyer looking through dry, lengthy summaries of court cases to keep their client free, one would hope they could concentrate on their work. 
Or look at our president (notorious for spending time on his Blackberry), who is unable to commit to memory even the basic points of his speeches without the help of a teleprompter. 
Would this be a sign of someone who can’t make major decisions because his brain hasn’t stored enough long-term memory? 
Does he not have the schemas necessary to provide him with enough creativity to come up with the best solution? 
Probably not, but it is a new way to start looking at the changing world around us. 
None of this is meant to be a call for everyone to abandon the Internet and read James Joyce’s “Ulysses” this weekend. 
But it should be a reminder that humani­ty and culture are not static, not even the physical makeup inside our heads. 
Moving forward with new technologies, we should be aware there is a give and take involved, and we are giving away as much as we are taking. 
While we distract ourselves with endless amounts of media, our ability to fully understand it is slipping. 
And if you’re still with me and not halfway through the crossword by now, you’re either my mother or none of this applies to you. 
To the latter, I’m envious, and to my mother, “Hi 
Nick Pelster received a Facebook mes­sage and forgot to finish this column. Reach him at nickpelster@dailyne­braskan.com. 
This column first appeared in the Oct. 25 edition of The Daily Nebraskan, the daily publication serving the University of Nebraska. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Beatles death conspiracy theory lives on 
Whether you believe in them or not, people love to hear ghost stories. You probably had a pretty boring childhood if you didn’t spend at least one sleepover or camping trip trying to tell the best and creepiest horror story or most ridicu-
Erica Bartz 
lous urban legend. Like we do with hor-Daily ror movies, most of Nebraskan us enjoy the scary thrills of a good story — we can experience the feelings of the situation without actually being part of it. Conspiracy theories are part of that fas­cination because while no one seems to actually believe in them, they’re still fun to talk about, and we’re willing to let them creep us out sometimes. 
Take for instance the theory that Paul McCartney has been dead for more than 40 years and was replaced by a lookalike. Although one website claims that there are 376 documented clues that Paul died in an accident in late 1966, it seems as if many of these were pulled out of nowhere just to keep the theory, and the fun, alive. The majority of the clues appear to be taken from song lyrics, reverse playing of the songs themselves, and album covers and pictures; not many are supported by official documentation. For example, sup­posedly if you play the beginning of “Revolution 9" backwards, you’ll hear “turn me on, dead man” and at the end of “Strawberry Fields Forever,” someone says “I buried Paul.” Certain lyrics also point to Paul’s death, including in “Come Together” (“one and one and one make three”) and in “She’s Leaving” it states “Wednesday morning at 5 o’clock as the day begins” which is the proposed day and time of Paul’s death. On many album cover and pictures, Paul is distinguished from the rest of the group: on “Abbey Road,” he’s out of step from the others and barefoot (a tradition for burying corpses). 
The Sgt. Pepper cover has a “grave” of a guitar, an open palm is shown above Paul’s head (another indication of death), and if you place a mirror in the middle of the drum, an arrow points to Paul next to the words “He Die.” 
While I don’t believe that Paul McCartney is actually dead, there are admittedly a suspicious number of clues. If there is a real conspiracy at all, it’s more likely that The Beatles planted some “evidence” to drive people insane and generate more interest in the band. The Beatles were a fun-loving bunch, so it’s not impossible to believe they decided to play a prank on their fans. Still, all four Beatles denied planting false evidence, so the most likely conclusion is that people like to look for patterns and signs. If they concoct a theory, they’ll find ways to make the facts fit and not the other way around. 
The most fascinating part about con­spiracy theories is not the surrounding speculation and rumor mill, but the peo­ple taking them so seriously. The creator of Officially Pronounced Dead? — The Great Beatle Death Conspiracy, although he has list upon list of evidence, has sever­al pages disproving the theory, which attests to its true nature — a fun story that probably isn’t true. One minor Internet celebrity, however, has taken it to extremes by posting videos on YouTube with images and audio relating to the dead Paul theory, writing songs that sound like Beatles songs when you play them backwards, and even planting suitcases at various locations around the world with supposed clues. Of course, no one knows his or her real identity, but the celebrity theorist has implied recently that he or she came upon explosive evidence that once belonged to a long-dead former assistant of McCartney, which may be revealed. 
Perhaps this fan hasn’t gotten more attention because he or she is just another kook, a crazy person who can’t let go of an idea that can’t be true (according to general opinion). But almost all of the greatest scientists in history were consid­ered insane or ridiculous until their theo­ries were proven correct years later. While it seems unlikely that Paul McCartney is dead, it’s possible that this believer has evidence of something just as monumental. Followers of the conspiracy believe that the former assistant’s suitcase may contain unreleased Beatles demos, a Beatles biography and proof that he had helped create the concept for “Sgt. Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band.” If turns out to be true, it could change histo­ry. 
These sorts of theories can help us to not be passive observers of the world around us. By looking for hidden mean­ings behind our books, films, music, and whatever else, we’re able to interact with them in a deeper way. And then who knows? Maybe we’ll find and open doors that we never even dreamed of. 
This column first appeared in the Oct. 18 edition of The Daily Nebraskan, the daily publication serving the University of Nebraska. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 



Scene
page 10 Wednesday, October 27, 2010 

LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 

The Observer 

Scene
Wednesday, October 27, 2010 page 11 
By ANKUR CHAWLA 
Scene Writer 

Wes Craven, the writer of classic horror movies like “Scream,” “A Nightmare on Elm Street” and “The Hills Have Eyes” once again proves his prowess in the genre with a fresh and original plot in “My Soul to Take.” The new film stands out from the regular slew of horror movies coming out in time for Halloween, such as “Saw 3-D” and “Paranormal 

By SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Writer 

Joaquin Phoenix’s self-indulgent, at times head-scratching documentary, “I’m Still Here” is, as many suspected, one big lie. But that’s part of its fun and mystique, because the documentary, directed by Casey Affleck, plays it straight the whole time. 
It’s a waste of time, really, for both the creator and the view. Despite Phoenix’s “character” so desperately wanting to be taken serious, there is nothing seri­ous about a pot-smoking, hobo-looking nut trying to make sense of his life while beating up on his close friends and call­ing on prostitutes. If this were real, then it’d be sad really, as though a male Britney Spears documented his fall from grace, hygiene and decency. 
At the core of the film is a man on a soul-searching mission who 
Activity 2” (more like “Seen It Six Times Before” and “ParaBOREmal Activity”). 
“My Soul to Take” revolves around seven children who were born on the day of a serial killer’s death. The serial killer was named Abel, a man who had dis­sociative identity disorder. While in start dying. In this slasher flick, the audience is kept on the edge of their seats trying to piece together which of the seven is the killer. Additional wrinkles to the plot are sprinkled in as the teens discover that one of the kids is related to the original killer, and love triangles appear more frequently than they did in high school geometry. 
Despite the interesting plot-line, “My Soul to Take” was far from perfect. The movie had less of a reason for 3-D than animated movies like “Shrek” and “Despicable Me.” The extra dimension did not even impact the scariness of the movie, as one would expect from an over­ly bloody film. In fact, there was not a scene in the movie worth the added 3-D effects. As most moviegoers would agree, unnecessary 3-D is aggravating and needlessly expensive. The extra $3.50 for a pair of glasses theaters expect returned is more than a little absurd. 
Additionally, there was not a recognizable face in this cast of fit-for-TV-sitcom teens, with the central character, Max Thieriot, being best known for his role in “The Pacifier.” As with most horror movies, the acting was far from great, but it was, at least, not so terrible as to be a distraction from the movie. 

It is close to Halloween, and for those of you interested in a mildly thought-provoking, who­dunit slasher flick, “My Soul to Take” is definitely worth watch­ing. If you prefer surveillance videos of a kitchen with pots wobbling around or creepy clowns torturing people, by all means see one of the other hor­ror movies in theaters. 


Contact Ankur Chawla at achawla@nd.edu 
the process of stabbing his wife, the police come to stop him and end up shooting him. Before his death, he vows to come 
back and complete his mission, inhabiting the soul of one of the seven kids. 
Sixteen years later, the seven kids continue to practice a ritual in the woods to ward off the evil spirit of the “Ripper” when they, as expected, get split up and 

of mind and left a void in his creative spirit. Who knows how much of this is actually grounded in Phoenix’s true life, but in either case, the actor gives an outrageous, nearly believable perform­ance. 
After announcing his retirement from acting in 2008, Phoenix appears to give up all logic and personal hygiene in favor of becoming a drugged-up loony. He rebels against the overly controlling Hollywood system that took hold of him at a young age and brought him A-list celebrity status at a price. He instead takes his “talents” to South Beach, New York and Los Angeles as he pursues his 
ing to rationalize his obtrusive antics, the 

real intrigue comes in his interactions with those in the entertainment indus­try. P. Diddy reluctantly meets with him, actor Edward James Olmos imparts wisdom on Phoenix that appears to really touch him, and David Letterman awkwardly clashes with him during Phoenix’s infamous appearance in 2009. 
The plotline goes that his goal is to “find himself.” It’s not so clear how his actions — abusing his assistant, blow­ing-up in Ben Stiller’s face when Stiller is trying to pitch him a role in “Greenberg,” and not taking care of himself to the point that he looks Phoenix, a gifted actor who has twice been nominated for an Oscar, felt the need to spend two years of his life mak­ing this film. He paraded around the country and crafted himself a new iden­tity with a beer-belly, a pipedream of hip-hop stardom and a journey of self-discovery that is paved with idiocy. 

It’s one big hoax though, and as a hoax it fails. So let’s hope for Hollywood’s sake that the gig is up and that he really is still here. 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu


LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, October 27, 2010 


CLUB SPORTS 


Men’s water polo falls to Flames in semifinals 
Irish equestrian competes at Northwestern show; Men’s volleyball performs well at pre-season Loyola (IL) tournament 
Laura Tiche and Patty Wash offense. This allowed the Irish place in the champ 4+ event. son. The Irish, led by senior 
Special to the Observer 

earned second. Emma Rhoades offense to score four unan-Mark Iandolo, used scrappy 
and Catie Hrabrick split third swered goals and take a 5-4 Men’s Rugby defense and powerful hitting to 
The Notre Dame and Saint place. In beginner walk-trot-lead. Notre Dame held on late to top the Fighting Bees. Mary’s Equestrians competed canter Laura Powell took first The third quarter looked earn a close win over Bowling Sophomore outside hitter at two shows over the week-and qualified for regional. good for the Irish as junior Green this weekend, beating Rob Bauer used his powerful end of Oct. 15 at Augustana Lisa Folkerth took second. captain Dan Geisman scored the Falcons 33-32. hitting from every position on College and Northwestern. At the end of the day Notre on a powerful skip shot and an The two teams have main-the court to lift the Irish in The team claimed Reserve Dame and Northwestern were upper bar to give the Irish a tained a healthy rivalry within their second match to a late 2­High Point Team finishes each tied for reserve and University commanding three-goal lead. the Midwest, and the match 1 (21-25, 25-22, 15-13) victory day. of Wisconson-Madison was the However, Ohio rallied and served as a preview of how the over Clarke. The Irish wel-
Highlights of the Augustana high point team. On the sec-scored a goal with three sec-teams would perform in the comed back the high-flying hit-show included Katie Walsh ond day of competition onds left to tie the game 7-7. collegiate premier league this ter Kevin Padden from his taking second in open flat and Genereux had another out-In overtime, Notre Dame spring. study abroad last year, and he third in open fence and Amy standing ride, taking first in senior captain Matt Fordonski The match was extremely contributed immediately at Giordano placing second in open fences and a second in scored two goals from hole set aggressive from the opening both outside and right side hit-intermediate fences. open flat. In novice fences, to secure a 9-8 Irish win. minutes. After 10 minutes of ter. Catherine Mikkelsen and Mana Sarah Lusher rode her way to scoreless play, the Irish broke Senior outside hitter Jason Espahbodi took fourth and fourth. Katie Pietrucha placed Men’s Rowing through the Bowling Green Healy also had several clutch fifth, respectively, in novice third in intermediate flat, After the club trained at defensive line and scored plays and remained a consis­fences, with Espahbodi also while Whitney Preisser had a Notre Dame for the first half of underneath the posts. tently good passer. Junior finishing sixth in intermediate great ride in novice flat and fall break, the Irish traveled to However, the Falcons were right side hitter Tom Johnson flat. Whitney Preisser and earned first in her class. Patty Boston for the Head of the able to take advantage of two also contributed with powerful Mikkelsen claimed first and Walsh and Natalie Valent took Charles. The regatta, the costly Irish penalties within hits and precise serving. In the fifth, respectively, in novice second and Hrabrick placed largest fall race in the world, two minutes of the Irish score last match of pool play, the flat, while Laura Powell, sec-third in advanced walk-trot-featured a handful of former to tie the game at seven. Irish were defeated 2-0 (25-22, ond, and Katrina Steward, canter. University of Wisconsin Olympic medalists, hundreds Although Bowling would con-25-22) by the adult league fourth, scored points in walk-Madison was high point team of international participants vert two penalty kicks in the team, Ballsagna. The loss put trot-canter, and Amy Giordano the second day as well while and most of the elite varsity first half, a converted try by the Irish in the Silver playoff qualified for Regionals in Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s and club programs in the Notre Dame senior Nick bracket for the tournament, intermediate fences. took third place overall. United States. Severyn put the Irish up by In the first knockout match Wisconsin finished as high The club 4+ boat raced first one at halftime. against Clarke’s second team, point team at Augustana. Men’s Water Polo for the Irish early Saturday The second half started with the Irish fell 2-0 (25-23, 25­
At Northwestern, Walsh and The No. 3 Irish lived up to afternoon in an event featuring 20 minutes of hard-fought 16). Girodano took first and fourth their ranking this weekend at 56 boats. Coxed by Lauren scoreless play. But after a cost-Several freshmen made their in open fences, while Nicole the conference championships, Mach, with Cliff Roberts, David ly penalty by Bowling Green, collegiate debuts at Loyola this Oberschmied and Sarah but were unable to advance to Link, Kurt Krautmann and Phil the scoring floodgates opened weekend, including defensive Lusher tied for third in novice the nationals. Brunner from stroke to bow, up. specialist Brian Bucciarelli, fences. Walsh garnered a sec-Notre Dame with a 7-5 win the crew placed 24th overall. Andy O’Connor booted a high setter Pat Laskowski and mid­ond first in open flat, with over Loyola-Chicago. After the Later in the afternoon, the kick, which was recovered by dle Scott Canna. All three Giordano fifth. Preisser, first quarter, the game looked collegiate 4+ competed against Irish freshman Byron Henry, freshmen contributed exten-Oberschmied and Christine as though Loyola would have some of the top crews in the who juked out the final sively throughout the day, and Martine finished second, third the upper hand holding a 2-1 country. Coxed by Rebecca defender for the score. The it provided much needed game and fourth in novice flat, and lead. At that point, though, Holmberg, with Charlie Janini, next 20 minutes tested the experience as well as built Patty Walsh, Powell and Sebastian Testero and Dan Mike Benvenuti, Mark Kettler depths of both teams, and with more cohesive on court play Steward rode third, fourth and Geisman powered the Irish and Brent Shawcross from three minutes remaining, the for the team. fifth in walk-trot-canter. The into a 4-3 halftime lead. stroke to bow, the Irish placed Irish found themselves with a Junior middle Steve Walsh Irish again finished behind the In the third quarter, goal-eighth out of the 41 boats in 33-32 lead. Despite the efforts also played well on his birth-Badgers, although Walsh keeper and sophomore captain their event. of the Falcons to punch in a day, and his clutch kills and earned High Point Rider hon-Tate Kernell shut down The highlight of the weekend score before time expired, the timely blocks were key in the ors. Loyola’s offense and the Irish for the Irish was the collegiate Irish held them off to close out Irish victories. 
The squad followed up those held on for the win. 8+ event early Sunday after-a hard-fought victory. Sophomore Middle Jim two performances with anoth-In the semifinals, against noon. Coxed by Chris Bennett, The Irish earned another vic-Waclawik also had a strong er strong showing this week-top-seeded Illinois-Chicago, with Garrett Campbell, Tim tory in the B-side game, taking day. Patrick Condon, a sopho­end at home. In open fences, Notre Dame started strong, but Parks, Michael Maggart, Greg down the Falcons 12-0. Senior more outside hitter, was at the Mia Genereux claimed first wilted as the game wore Flood, Zach Stackhouse, Chris White took control of the tournament, but could only place with Giordano close on. The first half ended with Graham Boechler, Sean match, directing the stalwart provide sideline support after behind in second on the first the Irish trailing 5-3 in a close Gibbons and Michael Wagner Irish defense. The combination recently having his wisdom day of competition. In novice contest. However, the Flames from stroke to bow, the crew of White at flyhalf and Dan teeth removed. With former fences, Oberschmeid claimed rallied in the second half, placed fifth out of the 42 boats Palmer at center truly proved teammates and Notre Dame second and Victoria Scheid quickly scoring a several times in their event, finishing second key to the win over Bowling alumni Mike Nejedly, Alex took third. Scheid earned early in the third quarter. out of the club teams behind Green. Lewis and John Tibble in third place again in intermedi-Notre Dame was unable to only the University of Virginia. attendance, the Irish made a ate flat and Espahbodi placed turn the momentum around, The fifth-place finish was the Men’s Volleyball strong season debut. fifth. and dropped the contest 16-5. highest ever for the Notre Notre Dame opened presea-Players unable to make the 
Natalie Stoeger and Sarah The final game was a battle Dame collegiate 8+ in this son play this Saturday with a tournament Saturday were Dalton had very strong rides in for third place in the confer-event. tournament at Loyola-senior defensive specialist Pete novice flat, taking first and ence against Ohio. The Many Notre Dame rowing Chicago. Although the Irish Balestracci, sophomore setter second for their class. The Bobcats made a very strong alumni participated in the did not have the entire roster Mark Dediana, freshman team had an especially good showing in the first quarter, regatta as well, dotting the available at the tournament, defensive specialist Liam day in advanced walk-trot-taking a 4-1 lead at the first field in the singles and fours they opened the year well. In Gallagher, freshman outside canter, with Notre Dame or break. races. The most notable was pool play, Notre Dame defeat-hitter Ronnie Seman and jun-Saint Mary’s riders filling the In the second, Irish freshmen probably Michael Lehmann, a ed NAIA opponent St. Ambrose ior setter Josh Rehberg, who is top three in all classes. goalkeeper Geno Freeman held 2010 graduate, who coxed the 2-1 (27-25, 23-25, 15-13) in currently studying abroad in Stewart won first while both strong, shutting down the Ohio U. S. National Team 4+ to first the opening match of the sea-Australia. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 


CLASSIFIEDS 
River house for rent. 3BR 2BA with UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? river frontage. 10 miles east of ND Don't go it alone. I’d keep playing. I don’t think the on Jefferson. Grad student pre-Notre Dame has many resources in heavy stuff is coming down for quite What Jefferson was saying was, 
FOR SALE 

FOR RENT ferred. $1170 574-255-0322 place to assist you. If you or some-a while. Hey! You know, we left this England 
——————————————— one you love needs confidential -Caddyshack place 'cause it was bogus; so if we Chess Lessons: USCF and FIDE support or assistance, please call ——————————————— don't get some cool rules ourselves (International Chess Federation) AVAILABLE NOW 4BD/2BA Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth pronto, we'll just be bogus too! Get Master, 2010 Indiana State Chess HOME FOR RENT1.5 miles from at 1-2685. it? Champion and coach of 1997/8 K-8 ND 574-876-6333 For more information, visit ND's Turn off the Xbox magic man. National Championship team ——————————————— website at: http://pregnancysup--Fast Times at Ridgemont High Dennis Monokroussos is offering IRISH CORNER APARTMENTS port@nd.edu. -Unknown ——————————————— lessons to players of all ages and New upscale apts. Less than 1 mi -——————————————— ——————————————— levels (local and online). Please from ND, next to Taco Bell on If you or someone you care about I don’t get why parents are always contact historicchess@comcast.net SR933. Fully furnished apts w/gran-has been sexually assaulted, we complaining about how tough it is to I’m a hermit crab Ray, next time someone asks you if for rates and information. ite countertops, GE appliances can help. raise kids. You joke around with you’re a god, you say yes! ——————————————— w/dishwasher. Each has 2bd/2bath. them, you give them pizza, you give -Dan 
Mstr. bdrm w/walkin closet. No For more information, visit Notre them candy, you let them live their ——————————————— -Ghostbusters House for sale on Angela. 2.5K sq water/sewer bill. $1000/mo starting. Dame's website: lives. They’re adults for God’s sake. If I'm not back in five minutes...just ——————————————— ft home. 4BR 3.5BA. Furniture ?, Call JSK Development 574-387-wait longer You’re killin’ me Smalls! fully redone. $365K 574-232-2211 4466. http://csap.nd.edu. -Michael Scott -Ace Ventura -The Sandlot ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 

PERSONAL 
Wednesday, October 27, 2010 The Observer • SPORTS page 13 

NCAA FOOTBALL 



Iowa hopes to derail Spartans 

single vote in the preseason overtime. The Spartans also 
Associated Press 
AP poll, but here they are, edged Northwestern last 
EAST LANSING, Mich. — inching their way into the weekend after a successful For the second straight sea-national title discussion. fake punt in the fourth quar­son, an unheralded Big Ten After this weekend, ter. team is undefeated in late Michigan State plays two of In between trick plays, October, its fans dreaming of its last three games at home. Michigan State has worn a conference championship— The Spartans are d o w n and maybe more. already alone in first o p p o ­
Last year, that team was place in the Big Ten, n e n t s Iowa, and this time it’s and since Ohio State with a Michigan State, so perhaps isn’t on the schedule relentless 
“That’s no fuke. 
it ’s fitting that the fifth -this season, running ranked Spartans will put Michigan State They’ve earned every game and their perfect record on the would certainly have a matur­
one of them.” 
line against the 18th-ranked the inside track to Hawkeyes in Iowa City this the league title with weekend. a win over Iowa (5­
“The next step is probably 2, 2-1). what we thought going into “We need to have the season, one of our bigger fun with this, enjoy challenges: going on the road the ride a little bit,” to play at Iowa,” Michigan Dantonio said. “In State coach Mark Dantonio saying that, you said. “They win know, con ­the right way. I tinue to be think they win enthusiastic with execution.” in our own 
The Hawkeyes way and 
“We need to have fun 
started 9-0 last continue to 
season, making a with this, enjoy the try and put 
valiant bid for an ride a little bit.” the next unexpected con-block up. ference title That’s how 
Mark Dantonio 
before dropping we’ ve tried a pair of Michigan St. coach to do it.” November games Michigan and ending up in State provid­the Orange Bowl. ed one of the Michigan State’s s e a s o n ’s rise has been an even bigger most memorable highlights surprise. The Spartans (8-0, last month, beating Notre 4-0 Big Ten) didn’t receive a Dame with a fake field goal in 
ing quar­terback. Kirk Ferentz Kirk Iowa coach Cousins has th rown 14 touch­down passes 
and only four interceptions. 
“It’s something you dream of doing around here—a Big Ten championship and going to a BCS bowl game,” Cousins said. “I think being 8-0 is special, but 9-0 is that much more special. It’s something that hasn’t been done around here a lot.” 
The Spartans are seldom dazzling but always effective, which means they’re pretty similar to last year’s Iowa team, which eked out close wins over Northern Iowa, Arkansas State, Michigan and Michigan State before finally falling to Northwestern and Ohio State. 
The Hawkeyes were 7-0 when they came to East Lansing a year ago, and they needed a 7-yard touchdown pass from Ricky Stanzi to Marvin McNutt as time expired to beat Michigan State 15-13. 
“This was the game last year that a lot of people were picking us to lose,” Iowa 
offensive lineman Julian Vandervelde said. “Like, ‘Oh, there’s no way they’ll get past Michigan State.’ We pulled it out at the end.” 
Now it ’s Michigan State dealing with the skeptics. The Spartans have passed every test so far, and they’ve moved up the rankings accordingly, but there’s still a sense peo­ple are waiting for them to lose. 
“They may be waiting for a while. That’s a good football team, ” Iowa coach Kirk Ferentz said. “That’s no fluke. They’ve earned every one of them.” 
Michigan State went 6-7 last season, including a hand­ful of close losses like the one against Iowa. Dantonio, who missed a couple games after a mild heart attack last month, is convinced the Spartans are more prepared to handle tight games this season. 
“When you start making plays at the end of a game to win a football game, you’re in a close game, you start devel­oping confidence you’re going to win that game and you find a way,” he said. “I think there’s something to that.” 
Notes: Dantonio wouldn’t comment on suspended DB Chris L. Rucker, who has been jailed for violating pro­bation but is scheduled to be released Thursday after serv­ing eight days. Rucker plead­ed guilty to reckless driving. … Michigan State has not won at Iowa since 1989. 


page 14 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 27, 2010 
NBA 



LeBron just can’t bring enough of the Heat 
Miami’s new superstar threesome proves unable to take down Celtics in season opener as they lose 88-80 
Associated Press 
BOSTON — LeBron James’ Miami Heat looked an awful lot like LeBron James’ Cleveland Cavaliers. 
The Heat fizzled in the debut of their superstar threesome on Tuesday night, scoring just nine points in their first quarter of the season and falling behind the Celtics by 15 points at halftime. Then, James took over — just like he was forced to so many times in Cleveland — but his 21 second-half points weren’t enough to prevent Boston from winning 88-80. 
“This is one of 82,” said Dwyane Wade, the Heat’s incum­bent star. “I’m sorry if everybody thought we were going to go 82­
0. It just ain’t happening.” 
The Celtics knocked the Heat out of the playoffs last season, and one round later eliminated James and the Cavaliers for the second time in three years. Thus began one of the most tumul­tuous summers in NBA history, culminating in James’ decision to leave Cleveland and join Chris Bosh and Wade in Miami. 
But even with their three-star lineup, the Heat were unable to win their much-anticipated debut against the defending Eastern Conference champions. More disturbing: They couldn’t do much of anything until James, who was supposed to have more help in Miami than he did in Cleveland, simply took over the game. 
James scored 15 points in the third quarter, making 2 of 3 from 3-point range as an outside threat and 5 of 6 from the line after picking up fouls on drives to the basket. He took seven of the team’s 13 shots in the quar­ter, and Miami cut a 19-point deficit to 63-57. 
“We knew we wouldn’t neces­sarily hit on all cylinders right away,” Heat coach Erik Spoelstra said. “When we got close and started grinding, that was more of his competitive nature the second half.” 
But James missed three 3­point tries in the fourth as the Heat failed to claw their way back and the sold-out TD Garden crowd began serenading the alleged superteam with chants of “Overrated!” Wade fin­ished with 13 points on 4-for-16 shooting, and Bosh had eight points, making 3-of-11 shots. 
“It’s going to take time, and we understand that,” James said. “I think right now it’s a feel-out process. It almost felt like we were being too unselfish, trying to get each other into the game.” 
In what might have been the most anticipated regular-season game in NBA history, Miami scored just nine first-quarter points — fewer than its much less-talented roster scored in any quarter last season; same with James and the Cavaliers, for that matter. 
True, it’s only one game. 
But it’s an early reminder that paper talent doesn’t always translate into a winning team, especially when superstars and their egos are involved. Kevin Garnett, Paul Pierce and Ray Allen were able to do it in Boston from the start, winning their first eight games in 2007­08 and 29 of their first 32 en route to the franchise’s 17th NBA title. 
“We know it isn’t going to be easy. The first half was an indi­cation of that,” Spoelstra said. “It’s not a reason to panic right now. … I already imagine we’ll be much better tomorrow.” 
Celtics coach Doc Rivers fears that Spoelstra is right. 
“They’re going to be great,” he said. “They’ll be much better. Hopefully, we will, too.” 
The sold-out crowd — a single ticket in the luxury suites was listed at $18,824 a few hours before the game — booed James virtually every time he touched the ball and delighted in Miami’s early struggles. 

But that was no different from when he with the Cavaliers. 
“I actually felt like I was in the playoffs. It had the same feeling, that same energy,” said Celtics guard Ray Allen, who scored 20 points. “That’s how it was com­ing into the building today.” 
And James left it feeling the same way. 
Returning to the building where his Cleveland career ended, James avoided questions about the controversial summer in which he became the NBA’s biggest villain except to say, “It was pretty long.” 
“I’m at a point where I’m look­ing forward to playing the games,” he said before the tip­off. “I’m excited about this new start. I’m excited about this sea­son. I’m excited about this team and this franchise. I’m excited to get it going in a city where (I’ve) struggled.” 
Since signing with the Heat, James has become beloved in Miami. 
And he remains a respected rival in Boston. 


Wednesday, October 27, 2010 The Observer • SPORTS page 15 

SMC VOLLEYBALL 


Rematch next test with MIAA tourney ahead 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING 



Maxwell focuses on legacy 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
Senior standout Samantha Maxwell’s accolades over the past three years speak for themselves, and it looks like she’ll be adding to her résumé once more this sea­son. 
Maxwell earned an invitation to the NCAA championships in each of her first three seasons on the Irish squad and was named an All-American her past two years. In her sophomore year, she was named the team’s MVP and the Big East’s Most Outstanding Swimmer. 
Although her list of honors is impressive, Maxwell measures success by more than individual accomplishments. While she still aims to represent Notre Dame at the NCAA championships this year, having her teammates join her there would make the achievement that much sweeter. 
“Since my freshman year it has always been Amywren Miller and I, and we would love nothing more than to walk on deck at the NCAA championships with a team beside us,” Maxwell said. 
Besides leaving her own legacy at Notre Dame, Maxwell hopes to leave the Irish squad with more than just personal awards. 
“Since it’s my senior year I want to be able to leave our swim­ming program with people who are going to outshine my own accomplishments.” 
Not only does Maxwell root on her teammates but she also views them as a key reason for her own success. The tight-knit team dynamic of the Irish team has enabled her to persevere through long workouts and stressful situa­tions throughout her college career. 
“We all have our days where practice isn’t at the top of our list of enjoyable activities, but having coaches and teammates that are there to push me and who want the best for me helps me a ton,” she said. “Nothing makes a prac­tice go by faster than being able to laugh and joke around with team­mates.” 
Outside of her teammates, Maxwell views her family as a main source of support and encouragement. She credits the values her parents instilled in her for much of her success. 
“I wouldn’t be where I am today without my family,” she said. “Growing up, they taught me what it means to have a true work ethic and it has only served me well so far in life. We have a run­ning joke in our house that my dad and I are both ‘too stupid to quit.’” 
Maxwell’s superb work ethic is manifest in the goals that she sets forth for herself and for the team. She said she wants to win a 15th consecutive Big East title and she would like to lead the team into national prominence. 

“Although the thought of win­ning another championship is always present, I think our team is really trying to set its sights on the NCAA championships and moving our program to the national scene,” she said. “By doing this, winning another Big East title will only be a stepping stone to greater accomplishments.” 
Maxwell and the Irish are well on their way to another victorious season. Notre Dame opened the season with a win at the Dennis Stark Relays before traveling south for strong showings against perennial powers LSU and Auburn, despite falling in both meets. Maxwell was one of two Notre Dame swimmers to post a win in the three-team meet. She believes that the meet against the two SEC opponents set the stage for team and for her personal suc­cess later in the season. 
“We went into the meet against Auburn and LSU as the under­dogs,” Maxwell said. “It was really just a chance for us to practice racing quality opponents while at the same time seeing what progress has been made since the our last meet. Although it was a loss on the scorecard, we gained a lot of valuable knowledge moving forward.” 
Maxwell and the Irish will next hit the water when they travel to Michigan State on Oct. 29. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 
MLB 



Playoffs may add more wild cards 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Baseball’s playoffs could be expanding in two years. 
The new head of the players’ union says his members are open to adding more wild-card teams for 2012 and possibly extending the division series to a best-of-seven. 
Union head Michael Weiner says it’s also possible players would agree to cutting the regu­lar season from 162 games, but that’s more problematic because it would cost teams revenue. 
“There is sentiment among a substantial segment of the play­ers to consider expanding the playoffs,” Weiner said Monday in an interview with The Associated Press ahead of his first World Series since replac­ing Donald Fehr as union head. 
Eight of 30 baseball teams make the playoffs under the format that began in 1995, a year later than intended because of a strike that wiped out the postseason in ’94. 
Baseball commissioner Bud Selig appears to be increasingly in favor of proposing more play­off teams during collective bar­gaining with the union next year, which will determine the postseason format for 2012 and beyond. 
“We have less teams than any other sport,” he said last month. “We certainly haven’t abused anything.” 
In the NFL, 12 of 32 teams make the playoffs. In the NBA and NHL, 16 of 30 teams advance to the postseason. 
The first round series have been best-of-five since they began. It’s possible they could follow the path of the league championship series, which began as best-of-five in 1969, then expanded to best-of-seven in 1985. 
“There are some players who have expressed an interest in that, as well,” Weiner said. “Obviously, you’ve got to look at everything together. But I think we can have a very healthy dis­cussion with the commissioner’s office when bargaining begins about these issues.” 
Weiner said the union likely would generate a consensus on its playoff stance during its annual executive board meeting in December. Bargaining is like­ly to start in the first half of the year on the labor contract to replace the one expiring on Dec. 11, 2011. 
Only minor tinkering with the playoffs is possible for next October. 
“We’ve been talking about a revised schedule in 2011 that would be a compressed sched­ule for postseason play,” he said. “The structure for playoffs in 2011 will be the same as it’s been throughout this contract.” 
The regular season expanded from 154 games to 162 in the American League in 1961 and the National League a year later, when each of those cir­cuits went from eight to 10 teams. 
“Certainly some of the players have said either we should shorten the regular season because the regular season’s too long, or we should shorten the regular season to accommo­date expanded postseason,” Weiner said, adding that would have “revenue implications for the industry.” 
“That is one of the ideas that they are kicking around. But having said that, we understand that a proposal to reduce the length of the regular season will be viewed one way by the own­ers as opposed to a proposal to expand or modify the structure of the postseason.” 

Not all players are in favor of a longer postseason. 
“Personally, I like the system the way it is,” San Francisco Giants outfielder Aaron Rowand said as he prepared for Wednesday night’s World Series opener against the Texas Rangers. “I think just the one wild card team from each league. If you’re in a division where you’ve got a team run­ning away with it, it gives all those other teams hope of something to play for through­out the course of the season.” 
Through 1968, there were no divisions and the team with the best regular-season record in each league advanced to the World Series. 
Giants reliever Jeremy Affeldt is concerned that adding wild­card teams or increasing the length of the division series would make a long season even longer. 
“If they’re going to do that, they need to shorten the season then. That’s a lot of games and that’s a long time. Even in the playoffs now we’re going poten­tially to Nov. 5,” he said. “Sometimes they think we’re just robots, but you’ve got to think of potential injuries. On pitchers, that’s a lot of throw­ing. Position players, some play every game all year. It just takes a toll on the body. If they’re going to do that, they’ve got to think a lot about the ram­ifications.” 

By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 

The Belles travel to con­ference rival Adrian tonight in search of their third MIAA victory as next week’s con­ference tournament quickly approaches. 
Saint Mary’s (4-18, 2-11 MIAA) dropped a 3-1 (22-25, 25-17, 26-24, 25-19) deci­sion to Adrian (9-15, 3-10 MIAA) on Sept. 25, but ence tournament. 
“We are taking it one match at a time,” she said. “We have three big matches this week, which means we have three opportunities to get better. Our goal all sea­son has been to get better every time we step out on the floor as a team. I really believe we have had a lot of success with that.” 
Kuschel added that the underclassmen on the squad would be very important 
Belles coach Toni Kuschel said she 

“Our team has 
was opti ­

improved in a lot of
mistic that Saint Mary’s ways since can win the the beginning of thematch this 
season.” 
time around. “We need Toni Kuschel 
to play our Belles coach best and have some fun out on 
during the next week and as the program moves forward. 
“We have had a lot of fresh­man step up and play big roles on this year’s team and do a good job,” she said. “Our team has improved in a lot of ways since the 

the court together,” Kuschel said. “We need to come out with a lot of energy and enthusiasm.” 
In their last match against Adrian, the Belles jumped ahead early with a win in the first set. The Bulldogs beginning of the season. We feel that our freshman have really had some great accomplishments.” 
One area where the rookie players have excelled this season is in their ability to easily step up to the level of 
evened the match at one win apiece in the second 

“We need to play our 
and never looked back, best and have some taking the 
fun out on the court 
remaining two 

together.” 
sets. 

This time around, the Toni Kuschel teams meet in 
Belles coach 
a crucial match that falls only one play on the coll egiat e level. 
“They have had to adapt very quickly to the college game,” Kuschel said. “A lot of players on the team have had to adapt to new roles that 

week before the MIAA tour­nament. The Belles current­ly find themselves in eighth place, but a win would tie them with Adrian and put them only one game behind Trine. Kuschel emphasized how important it is that the Belles continue to get better and prepare for the confer-they have never had to play before, and it is just making us that much stronger for our future.” 
The Belles take on Adrian tonight at 7 p.m. in Adrian, Mich. 


Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 

page 16 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 27, 2010 

Lavin 
continued from page 20 
longest,” Lavin said. “The things that I had to do to get here gained a lot of their trust. It wasn’t the easiest thing to do transferring schools — there was a lot of work to do. I needed to catch up on all my work and catch up credit -wise. So just because I made the commit­ment to do that I think it earned a lot of trust with the guys.” 
The long journey that ended with Lavin suiting up as cap­tain in his first full year with the Irish (4 -1-0) began at Providence College, where Lavin recorded eight assists in his freshman campaign before leaving the Friars twelve games into his sopho­more season. Lavin played out the rest of the year with the Omaha Lancers of the USHL. 
“At Providence, it was an up -and -coming team, but things didn’t get rolling as soon as people thought,” Lavin said. 
Eventually, Lavin set his sights on South Bend and envisioned himself playing for the Irish — more specifically, playing for coach Jeff Jackson. 
“It’s a lot different. There’s a lot of history here, you know. Coach Jackson is one of those coaches that has a lot of respect around the country, and even throughout Canada. The teams that have been through here in the past have been really good, so there are a lot of expectations,” Lavin said. “It was up to me to decide what I wanted to do, and this was a place that I wanted to come to, just because of coach Jackson’s history and the successful teams over the years.” 
The respect that Lavin expressed for Jackson has served the senior well in his stint as captain, a stint that has begun with the young Irish squad reeling off four wins in their first five games and losing only a late 5-4 decision to No. 6 Boston University. Lavin also said that, in his role as captain, he strives to be a liaison between the team and Jackson. 
“I have a great relationship with coach Jackson. He’s very open with me and I’m very open with him. He tells me what he wants done, and I tell him, you know, what the guys want,” Lavin said. “If there’s a message to be relayed to the team, and it would be more effective through me, that’s what my job is. I do feel I have a responsibility keeping the team motivated and at their best.” 
Lavin’s biggest challenge has been leading a team that lines up with a staggering amount of youth throughout the roster. Notre Dame has 12 freshmen on the roster with only four seniors. 
“I think that a lot of the 12 players that came in were the best players on their teams beforehand. So I think that they were leaders, and once you’re a leader, you’re always a leader. You always have those leadership skills,” Lavin said. “Then you have the three other seniors who are great, and the other upper­classmen, so it’s not really as tough as people think.” 

Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 


Win 
continued from page 20 
a little margin won’t help you much. In golf, unlike in football, running up the score is a good thing. We want to run it up.” 
Kubinski got both of his wishes 
— a solid third round and an increased gap between his squad and the Gaels — as the Irish fired a 3-over-par 291 to conclude the tournament. 
Junior Tom Usher led the Irish, as a 4­under-par 212 earned him sole medalist honors in the second round. He fought back with an eagle-birdie-birdie and scored for us which was huge.” 
The team’s first-place finish at the Bayonet and Blackhorse Golf Club marked the first time in program history that the Irish have started the season with five straight finishes in the top two. Kubinski said his team has enjoyed the success and expects their efforts to be recognized nationally. 
“It’s been really cool for the guys,” he said. “I expect when 
the newest rank­
ings come out 
we’ll be in the 
top 25.” 


for the first time Part of the 
“I don’t know if I’ve 
in his career. impressive 
“I don’t know ever been more proud string of tourna­if I’ve ever been of a player.” ment finishes for more proud of a the Irish was p l a y e r , ” their runner-up 
Jim Kubinski 
Kubinski said of finish at the last year’s Big Irish coach Lone Star 
East co-medal­ist. “His first round 68 was bogey -free, which is super. He even missed a few short putts. He really almost could have been in the 20s on the front nine.” 
On the opposite end of the Irish scorecard was freshman Niall Platt. The first-year golfer has been one of the top perform­ers for Notre Dame this season, but finished in a tie for 57th with a 15-over-par 231. Kubinski downplayed Platt’s struggles, chalking it up to fatigue as the freshman navigates his first semester in college. 
“Trying to get through exams and then fall break, he’s not used to it,” he said. “He just got tired, that’s all it really was. I was really proud of how he did Invitational in 
San Antonio last 
week. Kubinski 
left Texas impressed with his team’s play down the stretch. 
“The guys did a great job in Texas, playing extremely well down the stretch,” he said. “We honestly had a chance to win that tournament with a better first round performance. I think Chris Walker played well, his personal best score. It gave us some good momentum going into fall break and carrying over into the play in California.” 
The Irish now enter into their off-season, returning to action in Florida on Feb. 10 at The Match Play. 


Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Frilling takes tournament 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
The ITA Midwest Regional match in Ann Arbor, Mich., brought some initial struggles for the Irish, but junior Kristy Frilling fought through all the obstacles to win the singles title, advancing farther than any other Irish female tennis player since 2006. 
Coming out with anything less than a victory wasn’t an option for Frilling. 
“I definitely came into this tour­nament wanting to win, and I’m happy with the result,” she said. 
Frilling, the No. 1 seed, con­cluded the week’s events Tuesday, when she beat the No. 2 seed, Michigan senior Denise Muresan. Frilling started with an early lead, taking the first set 6-2. She began the second set leading 5-2, but Muresan came back to take a 6-5 lead. Frilling fought back, though, to tie set at 6-6. 
“It was tough because I was up in the second [set] and let her come back and almost win the set. I had to really dig and play aggressively because I knew if we went to a third set it would’ve been a long, grueling match,” Frilling said. 
Her perseverance paid off as Frilling took the tiebreaker 7-2, winning not only the match but also the title. The final match was the only one that went to a tiebreaker of the five she played throughout the tournament. 
“I think I got some good match­es at All-Americans, and I have been really focusing in practice on taking more shots, being more consistent and just being mentally prepared for match play,” Frilling said of her preparations leading up to this tournament. 
The doubles pair of Frilling and junior Shannon Mathews fell 8-6 in the quarterfinals to Ohio State’s Kelsey Haviland and Gabby Steele after triumphing over Ohio State’s Paloma Escobedo and Cami Hubbs the previous day. 
Irish senior Kristen Rafael and freshman partner Britney Sanders also fell in the quarterfi­nal round, losing 8-6 to Northwestern’s Linda Abu Mushrefova and Nida Hamilton. They had previously beaten Northwestern’s pair of Kate Turvy and Belinda Niu in the round of 16. 
In the singles division, sopho­more Chrissie McGaffigan, Mathews and Rafael were all knocked out in the quarterfinals. After three sets, McGaffigan fell to Michigan’s Mimi Nguyen, while Mathews lost to Northwestern’s Brittany Wowchuk and Rafael was knocked out by Muresan, Frilling’s final opponent. 
While Frilling was the only Notre Dame player to advance past the quarterfinals, the team has big hopes for the future. 
“I like it so much better when we are all together and playing together,” Frilling said. “It was so weird without them, and it just made me more excited for the spring season where we will all be working together towards the same goals — Big East and NCAA Championships.” 
Frilling’s win secures her a spot in the singles competition at the National Individual Indoor Championships in Flushing, N.Y., which begins on Nov. 4. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 

Wednesday, October 27, 2010 The Observer • SPORTS page 17 
Clark 
continued from page 20 
tion. 
Though the Panthers are not one of the contenders for the Big East title this season, a victory in South Bend could help them qualify for the conference tournament as they are on bubble for one of the remaining available posi­tions. 
“Of the three teams that can win the league at the moment, it ’s us, Connecticut and Georgetown,” Clark said. 

“They’ll be playing to get into the tournament. It’s a big game for them also — they’re looking to win this game.” 
The Irish will play the Pittsburgh Panthers at 7 
p.m. today at Notre Dame ’s Alumni Stadium with important conference positioning on the line. 
“[Winning the Big East is] one of our major goals, ” Clark said. “If we’re going to be success­
ful we’re going  to  have  to  
t a k e  c a r e  o f  b u s i n e  s s  
[today].”  

Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

Williams 
continued from page 20 
Saturday ’s game, and he added six more to that total before suffering the injury in the third quarter. 
“I think somebody just got rolled up into me,” Williams said. “Just like a freak acci­dent, things like that happen sometimes.” 
Kelly said Navy double ­teamed Williams throughout the game, so it would be hard to determine where the block that injured him came from. 
“It’s hard to look at any particular block and say, well, that was high or low,” he said. “I didn’t feel that way. Our coaches didn’t feel that way, and he was in there battling a couple of guys vir­tually every play.” 
Williams has not watched the play in which he was injured either, and does not plan to. 
“It’s kind of painful, but I didn’t want to start second-guessing what if I’d have done this or that,” Williams said. “So I chose not to watch it again.” 
The MCL sprain, Williams’ first football injury in his career, will not require sur­gery, and Williams insisted his season is not over, even if Notre Dame will only have 
one game left four weeks from now. 
“I’ll be alright though, I’ll be back soon,” he said, citing a return date of “as soon as possible.” 
In the meantime, junior Sean Cwynar will start in Williams’ place, after spelling Williams for spurts of plays throughout he first eight games of the season. 
“Sean’s been a consistent performer in there when Ian came out of the game, so we feel good about Sean step-ping in for that position,” Kelly said. “The next player for us is [junior] Hafis [Williams], and Sean can’t play the whole game. He doesn’t have the work volume to do that yet. So Hafis and Sean, together, can get that done.” 

Ian Williams said his two back-ups look as if they will be able to fill his void without 


Belles 
continued from page 20 
been honing in on their weak spots. 
“Finishing is our biggest chal­lenge, so we’ve been working on that,” Joyce said. “We attacked the goal against Adrian every which way, but we’re missing that final touch.” 
With the season coming to a close, Joyce said he hopes to end it on a positive with a win to inspire work in the off-season. He will also be looking to some of Saint Mary’s younger players to lead the young team, which has one senior this season in Corissa much of a problem, after watching them in practice Tuesday. 
“Watching them today out here, they looked pretty good,” he said. “Came off the ball pretty hard, they knew what they were doing, so I think they’ll be fine.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Hart. 
“I’m looking to our juniors to really step up against Trine and to start assuming the responsibility of the team moving forward,” Joyce said. 
The Belles have also found lead­ers in freshman Valencia and sophomore Morfin, who Joyce feels have set new standards for the rest of the teammates. 
“I think their play is inspiring for the team and sets a level of work and excellence for the rest of the team,” Joyce said. 
The Belles take on Trine College this afternoon in Angola, Ind., with a 4 p.m. start. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer • SPORTS Wednesday, October 27, 2010 
MEN’S INTERHALL 

Dillon, Sorin earn playoff confdence with wins 
interhall playoffs by finishing its 
By SAM GANS, MEGAN 
regular season with a dominant 
GOLDEN, JOSEPH 
victory over Keough Oct 14. 
MONARDO, ADAM 
Dillon (4-0) freshman defensive 
LLORENS, VICTORIA 
back Patrick Touhy shut the 
JACOBSEN and MATTHEW 
Kangaroos down early with an 
DEFRANKS 
interception on the first play of 
Sports Writers 

Keough’s (0-4) opening drive. “I saw the ball and it got to Knott 8, Alumni 0 me,” Touhy said. “The defense 
Knott raced off to a quick start played great. They’re working early and held on late to upset really hard and doing a great previously unbeaten Alumni in a job.” heated contest Oct. 14 for their The first half was predomi­first win of the season. nantly a defensive matchup 
After Knott (1-3) stopped between the Big Red and the Alumni (3-1) on the opening Kangaroos. Big Red senior defen­drive, the Juggerknotts proceed-sive end Jack Winnike picked up ed to take their first drive 76 a safety to close the half, giving yards for a touchdown behind Dillon a 9-0 lead over Keough. the passing of sophomore quar-In the second half, the Big terback Dylan Walter. Walter Red’s passing game took center went 4-for-6 for 64 yards on the stage, connecting on several long drive, including a 23-yard swing balls and touchdown passes. pass to senior running back Cam Sophomore wide receiver Will Smith to convert a key third-and-Salvi had one of three Dillon 
21. Walter finished the drive with touchdown receptions. a one-yard sneak. “I just went deep and got 
Knott had attempted to move open,” Salvi said. “We have a the ball through the air the great connection, me and [fresh­whole season, but never man quarterback] Kevin [Fink]. achieved great success until it We dominate — we stay after faced the Dawgs defense. practice and work hard.” 
“We’ve been passing the ball The Big Red is looking forward 
all  year,  but  to competing as  
today  it  just  the top seed in  
really came t o g e t h e r , ”  “I think we’re  the playoffs, as the Thursday win  
Walter said. “I felt more com­fortable. The  defnitely the favorite in the playoffs, but we  over Keough established them as the team to  
line was giving  can’t let that get to our  beat on the way  
me a time.”  lot  of  heads.”  to the champi­onship game at  
After  Knott  Notre  Dame  
s o p h o m o r e  Will Salvi  Stadium.  
Jake Coleman  Dillon sophomore receiver  “I think we’re  
ran  in  a  fake  definitely  the  
extra point for  favorite  in  the  
a  two-point  playoffs, but we  

conversion, Alumni drove into can’t let that get to our heads,” Juggerknott territory, but was Salvi said. “People are going to stopped on third-and-7 when start saying that we’re No. 1, and Knott junior captain Dan Shaffer we can’t start thinking that laid a crushing hit to break up a because we need to play every screen and helped to continue team.” the momentum. Winnike, who was disruptive in 
“We came in intense and the Keough backfield all game, everybody kept it going,” Shaffer said the undefeated team has said. “Everybody got big hits, not great chemistry. just me, but that helped, too.” “It was a really great season. In 
Knott nearly lost the lead late my four years this was the best in the game, with Alumni deep in team I’ve been a part of,” he Juggerknott territory. But when said. “This is a great group of Alumni junior running back and guys to be a part of. There’s captain Dan Dansdill fumbled the great chemistry, a killer quarter-ball at the 10-yard line, Knott back and a great coach.” recovered the ball to seal the vic-Dillon will take on their South tory. Quad neighbors, Fisher, in the 
Though Alumni’s option first round of the playoffs. offense, led by Dansdill and freshman quarterback Will Stanford 14, O’Neill 0 Cronin, gained 45 more yards Powered by aggressive defense than Knott, but Alumni’s slow and an effective passing game, start and inability to finish drives Stanford closed out its regular led to its first loss. season with a crucial victory over 
“We came out flat,” Dansdill O’Neill Oct. 14. The win sent said. “They wanted it more than Stanford into the playoffs on a us. They pushed us around.” high note, while the loss marked 
Alumni, which had already the end of another season for clinched a playoff berth, was O’Neill. hoping to build momentum for Both the Griffins (3-1) and the the postseason. Instead, it left Angry Mob (2-2) entered the Thursday trying to pick up the game with their playoff hopes in pieces. the balance. Coming off a loss, 
“The main thing is to regain Stanford was eager to provide a our focus,” Dansdill said. “We decisive victory against O’Neill. need to all get on the same page While the Griffins’ running game and start working as a team.” struggled to establish itself early, 
Though Knott was eliminated senior quarterback Tony Rizzo from postseason contention, the was able to hook up with junior victory wasn’t any less sweet. wide receiver Griffin Naylor for 
“It’s amazing,” Shaffer said. “It the first score of the game. feels great, and it’s really good Naylor hauled in a number of for next year.” passes on the day, including a 
While Knott’s season is over, long catch on a key fourth down Alumni hopes to rebound as the to set up Stanford’s second No. 3 seed in an upcoming play-touchdown before halftime. off game against Carroll. “We knew [Naylor] was the guy 
we would have to worry about Dillon 29, Keough 0 coming in,” O’Neill junior coach Dillon established itself as the Guy Schwartz said. “He still did a 
overall No. 1 seed in the men’s great job making plays.” 
Despite O’Neill’s inability to lock down Naylor and what Schwartz referred to as “bone­headed plays” — including untimely penalties and zone breakdowns on defense — the Angry Mob was able to hang around until the very end. 
Trying to mount a comeback in the fourth quarter, O’Neill junior quarterback J.P. McCabe led his team to inside the Stanford 5­yard line, but the Angry Mob was stopped on four consecutive plays. The goal-line stand, along with junior defensive back Dan Mulligan’s interception in the first half, highlighted the impres­sive performance of the Stanford defense. 
“Our plan was, on defense, to be more aggressive,” Rizzo said. “Last game I think we played really soft and gave up a lot of yards.” 
The importance of defense was not lost on Rizzo. 
“When you don’t give up any points,” Rizzo said, “It’s hard to lose.” 
The Angry Mob barely missed out on a playoff spot, falling just short in point differential. Stanford will face Siegfried as the No. 4 overall seed in the first round of this year’s playoffs. 
Siegfried 12, Morrissey 7 
It wasn’t pretty, but Siegfried got the result they were looking for, defeating Morrissey on Oct. 14 before heading home for Fall Break. 
The Manor (2-2) dominated the first half, controlling the tempo on both the offensive and defen­sive sides of the ball. In fact, on their first drive of the game, Morrissey freshman quarterback Nick Conrad connected with one of his wide receivers to put the favored Ramblers (3-1) down 7-0 early. 
The momentum shifted back to Siegfried quickly after halftime, though, as Siegfried senior line­backer Dan Scime intercepted an errant Conrad pass inside Manor territory. 
“Their quarterback made a good read, but I made a better one,” Scime said. “That was a play worthy of beast house.” 
Shortly after, Siegfried sopho­more running back David Whi tmore scored on a 15­yard option pitch. 
“[S enior Dame Stadium. 
“In the second half, we played together as a team,” Whitmore said. “If we could play like this every game, we will be a danger­ous team in the weeks to come.” 
Quarterback Matt Meinert agreed with his running back. 
“When we are playing like this, we are a force to be reckoned with,” Meinert said. 
A coach-less and young Manor squad kept it close against a Siegfried squad which, besides having multiple seniors and three coaches, had a WNDU camera­man and reporter on their side­line. 
Despite the potential distrac­tion, Siegfried is back in the play­offs seeking yet another title. Their quest begins against Stanford next Sunday. 
Zahm 14, St. Ed’s 7 
Zahm closed out its season with a thrilling victory over St. Edward’s Oct. 14. 
Though the Zahmbies (1-3) have suffered from a lack of scor­ing in recent years, the offense came alive late in the first half, sparked by a catch in the end zone for the first Zahm touch­down in three years. 
The Zahmbies opened the sec­ond half with another touchdown scoring drive. Although the Gentlemen (1-3) threatened late in the game with a touchdown from of sophomore wide receiver Zach Siefring, the rally proved unsuccessful, with the game end­ing on a desperate but futile series of lateral passes. 
A number of factors con­tributed to Zahm’s first win of the season. 
“Heart. We came out with a lot of heart,” Zahm senior Dylan Fernandez said. 
Despite the absence of senior captain Mark Pomerenke, the Zahmbies did have sustenance in the form of a pre-game pizza party, in keeping with their team motto of “Eat pizza, win games, eat more pizza.” 
The Zahm defensive line also contributed to the winning effort. The unit is nicknamed the “SWAT Team,” and includes sophomore Tom Mealey and sophomore Brian Salat. The Zahmbie line knocked several 
pass attempts 
out of the air, 
shutting down 
the St. Edward’s 
passing attack. 

quarterback ”When we are playing Although the Matt] Meinart Zahmbies were 
like this, we are a force
made a great pleased with pitch to me to be reckoned with.” their victorious and I saw a effort, they did hole and took it admit that they 
Matt Meinert 
in,” Whitmore could have been 
Siegfried senior quarterback 
said. more prepared 
Although the extra point was mishandled, Siegfried junior cornerback Sam Fenker inter­cepted another Conrad pass on the ensuing Manor drive. 
Shortly after the pick, Meinert pulled off a 51-yard touchdown run to seal the game for the Ramblers. 
“My touchdown run was the same play that we ran for Whitmore earlier,” Meinert said. “This time, the defense all thought the pitch was coming, making it easy for my to burst away from the pack.” 
Now the Ramblers are in a place they feel the most comfort­able — the playoffs. As the defending champion, Whitmore said Siegfried has its sights set on nothing less than a trip to the championship game in Notre for the game. 
“We could 
have practiced 
more this past month,” Fernandez said. 
The excitement did not extend to the Gentlemen’s sideline. 
“Nothing went well,” St. Edward’s junior captain Jay Mathes said. “We were too con­cerned with putting points on the board, and Zahm came to win.” 
The Gentlemen noticed that their players were not staying in position during much of the first half, but halftime adjustments weren’t enough to catch the Zahmbies. 
“90 percent of the game is half mental, and we lost both halves,” St. Edward’s junior offensive line­man Ryan Kim said. 
Although the Gentlemen were disappointed to end their season with a loss, they were pleased with the performance of junior defensive lineman Neil Mathieson, who had three sacks in his first game. 
Both teams will have to turn in their pads as neither will be advancing to the playoffs. 
Sorin 20, Carroll 2 
In a potential offensive fire­works show between Sorin and Carroll, one team lit up the sky while the other used a wet fuse. 
Sorin (3-1), behind its strong running game and stout defense, cruised to a victory over the pre­viously undefeated Vermin on Oct. 14 at LaBar Fields. 
The Otters employed a bal­anced attack to rack up 203 yards of total offense — 105 of those coming on the ground. Senior captain and running back Michael Browder sliced the Vermin defense for 82 yards on 15 carries. 
“Our offensive line played real­ly well. We just went double tight [end] the whole game basi­cally and we were able to run it down their throats,” Browder said. “[The] offensive line just opened up a bunch of holes, made it easy for me and [junior fullback Matthew] Pepe.” 
Pepe himself ran the ball for 75 yards on nine carries, including a 15-yard touchdown run out of the Wildcat formation and a key 30-yard third-down late in the second quarter. 
Pepe’s run was just the begin­ning of an interesting series that put Sorin up two scores. On the next play, Sorin sophomore quar­terback Ted Spinelli had a touch­down pass negated by a penalty. Two plays later, Carroll freshman defensive lineman Connor Miller sacked Spinelli, bringing up a third-and-15. After an incom­plete pass, Spinelli connected with junior wide receiver Bobby Sullivan for 25 yards on fourth down, and the Otters were able to punch the ball into the end zone. 
On its first two drives com­bined, Sorin ran 26 plays from scrimmage for 160 total yards. 
Coming out of halftime, the tide appeared to be turning. Sparked by a 23-yard punt return by freshman wide receiver Bobby Dorman to the Sorin 36-yard line, Carroll’s offense drove inside the Otters’ 1-yard line before being turned away on four straight plays. 
“We stepped up,” Browder said. “We haven’t been playing well on the goal line and we just made it happen. We had a cou­ple big plays by our defensive linemen and our linebackers.” 
The following Sorin series saw an errant snap roll out of the end zone for a Carroll safety. Those were, however, the only points the Vermin would score on the night. Carroll managed only three first downs and a meager 10 yards rushing. 
“[We have] great momentum. This is the best game we’ve played all year,” Browder said. “Our offense is clicking, our defense is playing well.” 
Both teams will play in the first playoff round this weekend, with Sorin matching up against Morrissey and Carroll clashing with Alumni. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu, Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu, Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu, Adam Llorens at allorens@nd.edu, Victoria Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu and Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu. 

Wednesday, October 27, 2010 The Observer u TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 

PLEASANDVILLE JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 


JUMBLE 


Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
SUGIE  

 
 
 
 
 

©2010 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
BANIC  

 
 
 
 
 

BOLTAC  

 
 
 
 
 
 

JYLFOU  

 
 
 
 
 
 

-
BIBLE
Jumble
o:
http://www
.tyndale.com/jumble/ 
JEFF KNUREK MIKE ARGIRION 
THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek 

“ 


” 
A: A 




(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: AGONY RABBI PARADE DISMAY Yesterday’s Answer: What she ran into at the water cooler — 
A BIG “DRIP” 
 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports
Wednesday, October 27, 2010 page 20 
FOOTBALL 
Senior NT Williams out for 4-6 weeks 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
If the Irish defense wasn’t suffering enough after giving up 367 rushing yards to Navy during Notre Dame’s 35-17 loss Saturday, news on Monday certainly set that mood further back. 
During his weekly press conference Tuesday, Irish coach Brian Kelly confirmed reports that senior nose tackle Ian Williams will miss the next four to six weeks with a sprained MCL. 
“It seems to be the worst-kept secret in America,” Kelly said. “Ian Williams will be out four to six weeks, and we will be able to modify any 
of those comments based upon when we can get him moving around again.” 
Williams had registered 37 tackles heading into 
see WILLIAMS/page 17 

Blocked out 

SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer Senior nose tackle Ian Williams is helped off the field during Notre Dame’s 35-17 loss to NavySaturday. Williams is expected to miss 4-6 weeks with an MCL sprain. 
MEN’S GOLF 
Team runs away with fall finale 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
The Irish concluded the fall portion of their schedule on Tuesday with a blowout tourna­ment win. At the Saint Mary’s Invitational in Seaside, Calif., Notre Dame finished with a 3­under-par 861 after two days, good for a 20-stroke victory margin over second place Saint Mary’s College of California. 
After the first two rounds at the Bayonet and Blackhorse Golf Club, Irish coach Jim Kubinski said that his team would focus on continuing their solid play in the final round, and also attempt to increase their lead if possible. 
“I think the important thing is not to go out there worrying about winning and losing, but just to play a solid round,” he said. “We want to separate our­selves in the rankings. A win by 
see WIN/page 16 


MEN’S SOCCER 

Panthers to be next test in quest for conference crown 
can win the league,” Irish important to get a good jump particular group that will the nation’s toughest compe-
By MOLLY SAMMON 

coach Bobby Clark said. “The into the Big East tournament. travel to Notre Dame, the tition over last week’s fall 
Sports Writer 

team will need to take care “I think every game is a dif-Irish went over previous break, losing one game to 
of that themselves. If we’re ferent game, every year is a games to get a better grasp No. 1 Louisville and ending 
The Irish will test their going to do that, we need to different year, and every on what to expect from in a scoreless tie against No. seven -year win streak win both games this week team a different team. It’s Pittsburgh Wednesday. 5 Connecticut. After playing against Pittsburgh at home and that starts [today].” what we do [today] that will “They are having a pretty three big games over the this afternoon, opening a Though the Irish (7-4-4, 4-influence the outcome, ” good season this year. I think break, Clark gave the Irish crucial week of play that will 2-1 Big East) have won eight Clark said. “There’s no use we’ve watched tape on them, an off day Monday and a determine their potential as of the last ten contests looking back, there’s no use and we’ve been impressed light run through of drills a contender for the Big East against the Panthers (6-7-2, looking forward. It’s what we with them on tape. They’re a Tuesday to rest their legs for crown as the regular season 1 -4 -2 ) , C l a r k s a i d do [today] that’s going to be strong physical team,” Clark the ensuing week of competi­enters into the final stretch. Wednesday’s matchup will be important.” said. 
“We’re in a position that we a big challenge and very To learn about this year’s Notre Dame faced some of see CLARK/page 17 
SMC SOCCER 

Belles travel to Trine to play season finale 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Sports Writer 
The Belles hope to end the season on a winning note as they hit the road and travel to Trine today for their last game of the season. 
Saint Mary’s (2-16) is coming off a tough defeat last week against Adrian College, but Belles coach Michael Joyce said the team is feeling optimistic about their chances against the Thunder. 
“I think on paper we’re a little better than Trine when you look at similar opponents we’ve played,” Joyce said. “But they are good enough to win if we don’t play well.” 

Though the Belles fell 2-0 at home against Adrian College in their last game, the team rallied for many scoring chances throughout, with shots on goal from freshmen Jordan Diffenderfer and Mollie Valencia and sophomore Ashley Morfin. 
“We have some spectacular possession,” Joyce said. “We just need to convert that into more goal scoring opportunities.” 
Sophomore Caitlin Walsh had 10 saves against Adrian to bring her total to 96 on the season. 
Trine lost 3-0 in its last game against Kalamazoo College, making Joyce more confident in his team going into the match. In preparation, the Belles have 
see BELLES/page 17 

HOCKEY 
Lavin makes mark quickly 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
A year ago, Irish senior defenseman Joe Lavin hadn’t even officially joined the Notre Dame team. Today, he is the captain of a No. 13 Irish squad coming off a 2-1 upset of previously top ­ranked Boston College squad on Saturday and the unques­tioned leader of the Notre Dame blue line. So much for slowly rising the ranks. 
“I think coming in [this year] as a senior, the seniors have a certain amount of responsibility. Even though everybody works together, as a senior you do a little more because you’ve been here the 
see LAVIN/page 16 






