the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Students notified of study abroad decisions 
Office of International Studies accepts 789 applicants; most popular programs include English-speaking locations 

By LIZ O’DONNELL 
News Writer 
The Office of International Studies (OIS) received 1,499 applications for study abroad programs for the 2010-2011 school year, Director Kathleen Opel said. 
Opel said not all of the 1,499 applications were “unique,” meaning that some students turned in multiple applications to OIS. 
“The number of applications we received this year was just a bit higher than last year, proba­bly by 10 or so,” she said. 
Opel said they were able to offer acceptances to 789 people and place some others on wait­ing lists. She said the most pop­ular programs were mainly in English-speaking locations. 
“Students who applied to study abroad during the next academic year were notified on Feb. 5 about their acceptance decision from the programs they applied to,” Opel said. 
Opel said they considered a number of factors in their deci­sion aside from a student’s GPA. 
“It would be really easy if [admission] were only based off GPA,” she said. “First we exam­ine every part of the applica­tion, everything written with the essay being the most impor­tant part.” 
Among other factors that influenced the committee’s deci­sion was the required academic letters of reference, rector ref­erence and Dean’s approval.  
“Most students understand and have met the guidelines we have laid out for the abroad programs,” Opel said. “We get a sense of who are those appli­cants who are best suited for the program as well as the pro­gram that best suits the stu­dents. We choose based on stu­dents who fit both criteria.” 
Students accepted to a study abroad program have until Friday to notify OIS about their decision to either accept the invitation or withdraw. 
The traditional favorites were London, Dublin and both Australia programs as well as 
see ABROAD/page 6 



Fr. John Jenkins lectures on ethics 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
Making leadership decisions in an ethical context, a topic University President Fr. John Jenkins is certainly familiar with, was central to a lecture he held Tuesday. 
“The Ethics of Leadership” lecture was the second of four main events hosted by the Mendoza College of Business as part of its annual Ethics Week. 
Jenkins’ presentation was structured around balancing the moral and practical compo­nents of making leadership decisions, both in and outside of business. 
Jenkins said ethical leader­ship is a “practical activity” and emphasized the impor­tance of not only developing, but also implementing ethics in one’s life and career. 
“It’s something you do,” Jenkins said. “Be good at it. 
“If you want to be an ethical leader, pay attention to the small things,” Jenkins said. “It’s about the 

see JENKINS/page 6 

Retired history prof. Robert Burns dies Fri. 
Observer Staff Report 
Retired professor of history Robert Burns died Friday after a long illness. He was 83. 
Prior to teaching at Notre Dame, Burns served in the U.S. Coast Guard. He later graduated from Northeastern University and went on to obtain his mas­ter’s and doctoral degrees in his­tory from Harvard. 
Burns began at Notre Dame in 1957 and taught courses in Irish and British history. He also was the author of a two-volume study on “Irish Parliamentary Politics in the Eighteenth Century” and “Being Catholic, Being American: The Notre Dame Story,” a two-volume his­tory of Notre Dame from its foundation to 1952. 
Thomas Schlereth, professor of American studies and a Notre Dame alumnus, remembers 
see PROFESSOR/page 6 


Mass held in celebration of Rhoades 

By KATLYN SMITH 
News Writer 
Notre Dame celebrated the arrival of Bishop Kevin Rhoades to the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend with a Mass of thanksgiving at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart Tuesday. 
Rhoades, former bishop of the Harrisburg, Pa., diocese, succeeded Bishop John D’Arcy, who retired on Jan. 13. Both Rhoades and University President Fr. John Jenkins presided the mass. 
“I hope he feels this is home and not a place to visit,” Jenkins said. 
The Observer reported in a Nov. 16 article that Rhoades was one of some 80 bishops who denounced President Obama’s appearance at the 2009 commencement in a let­ter to Jenkins last spring. Despite past tensions, Rhoades said he anticipates a close rela­tionship with Notre Dame. 
“I believe, as Pope John Paul II said when he visited the United States in 1987, that bishops should be seen not as external agents but as partici­pants in the life of the Catholic university,” Rhoades said dur­ing his homily. 
Rhoades defined this rela­tionship as one of his new obli­gations as successor to D’Arcy. 
“As I undertake my new responsibilities as Bishop of Fort Wayne-South Bend, I am very conscious of my responsi­bilities, my responsibility par­ticularly to strengthen and pro­mote the Catholic universities in my Diocese and especially to promote and assist in the preservation and strengthening of their catholic identity,” Rhoades said. 
Rhoades explored the role of these Catholic universities in the larger society. 
“Our institutions make a vital contribution to the mission of our church and truly serve societies,” Rhoades said. “They become places in which God’s presence in human affairs is recognized and in which every young person discovers the joy of entering into Christ’s being for others.” 
see RHOADES/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Council of Representatives page 3  Super Bowl commercials page 13  Women’s basketball wins at Cincy page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Wednesday, February 10, 2010 

INSIDE COLUMN 
It ain’t broke, don’t fix it 
“If it ain’t broke, don’t fix it.” The NCAA needs to adopt this cliché when looking at possible changes to the men’s basketball tournament. 
There has been a lot of talk recently about a possi­ble expansion Matthew Robison of the bracket, and it is com-
Sports Wire 
pletely bewilder-
Editor
ing why anyone would want to change anything that is so good. I mean seriously, what sports fan doesn’t love March Madness? 
People, sports writers, fans, the blo­gosphere, have all been talking about expanding the tournament to include another round, so as to avoid so many “deserving” teams being shunned. 
Some, including Denver Post sports writer and ESPN contributor Woody Paige, have even made the suggestion that the tournament include all 347 Division I teams. Listen, I know it’s called March Madness, but that would be insanity. 
The reason the NCAA holds the tour­nament is to reward those teams that have had quality seasons with a chance to compete for the national champi­onship. Those who have had mediocre seasons have not proven themselves contenders. 
Some might challenge this by saying, “why not just give everyone a shot?” 
The answer: everyone does have a shot. Every team (with the exception of the Ivy League and the independents) has a chance to earn an NCAA bid by winning their conference tournament. 
If an additional round were added, of the 64 additional teams added to the bracket, 60 of those would be crushed in the preliminary round. Sure, there would be some upsets, there always are. But winning the national champi­onship is tough enough as it is. Winning six games in three weeks against the best teams in the country is a formida­ble challenge, and only the best teams do so. 
A team that’s won 30 games deserves to compete for the title, a team that goes 16-14 with a .500 record in its conference doesn’t. 
On Selection Sunday, 65 teams get in, 282 don’t. Yes, some schools get their hearts broken. This year, as the season is shaping up, the Irish look to be on the proverbial bubble. The coaches, players and fans will be waiting with bated breath to see if we get it in. Dozens of other schools will be doing them same. 
But the heartbreak of the selection show is just part of the Madness. Some say it’s not fair. On the contrary, I’d say it’s not fair to make a team that has had an outstanding season, finished in the top 10 in the polls and won their conference tournament have to risk having a great player go down with an injury or, gulp, lose in a huge upset to a less than mediocre team in an addition­al preliminary round. They’ve earned their shot, give it to them. 
So, amid all this talk of expanding the tournament, let’s just remember just how much we all love and enjoy it, and admire it for all it’s worth. It ain’t broke, college basketball fans, so don’t fix it. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHICH SPORTS T AM HAS THE B ST-LOOKING ATHL T S AT ND? 






Hans Helland  Stu Jansen  Justin Pham  Nicole Sugiyama  Linsey Laufenberng  Liz Cress  
sophomore  junior  sophomore  senior  senior  junior  
Knott  Stanford  Fisher  Pasquerilla East  Howard  Holy Cross  
“Fencing ... I’m dating a fencer.”  “Volleyball, because they go for the kill.”  “Volleyball because I used to have a crush on a volleyball player in high  “Baseball because they know how to hit home runs.”  “Football because they look good in tight pants.”  “Hockey because Brad Phillips is my best friend.”  
school.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer Students browse at Majors Night to find out more about majors offered at Notre Dame. Majors Night took place Tuesday from 6:30 p.m. to 8:30 in the Joyce Center. 
OFFBEAT 
Man claims deputies beat him for burping 
ROANOKE, Va. — A Roanoke man claims sher­iff’s deputies beat him in the city jail because of his burping. Thomas Scott Vandegrift made the alle­gations in a federal lawsuit filed last week against sev­eral deputies, the city, the sheriff’s office and the sheriff. According to the lawsuit, the deputies were annoyed by Vandegrift’s burping, which was caused by acid reflux. 
Vandegrift was being held at the jail on a drunk­en driving charge. He pleaded no contest in 2008 and received a six-month suspended sentence, a $750 fine and a year of driving restrictions. 
The lawsuit alleges excessive force, conspiracy to violate civil rights and assault and battery. 
Sheriff’s office spokes­woman Patricia Johnson said Monday there would be no comment on the law­suit. 
Man steals ambulance with patient inside 
MADISON, Wis. — Authorities say a drunken man stole an ambulance from a Wisconsin ski area with the patient and para­medics still inside. The Dane County Sheriff ’s Department says emer­gency responders were treating a patient in the back of the ambulance at the Tyrol Basin Ski and Snowboard Area in Mount Horeb on Monday night. They say a 24-year-old Illinois man got into the vehicle and drove it around the parking lot. 
The sheriff ’s depart ­ment says deputies arrested the man. But it is 
u nc lea r  h o w  he  w as  
stopped.  
Information  compiled  

from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Thursday Friday 

IN BRIEF 
All of William Shakespeare’s 154 sonnets will be read aloud by Notre Dame administrators, faculty and students today from 11 
a.m. to 3 p.m. today in O’Shaughnessy Hall. Sonnet Fest 2010 is sponsored by Shakespeare at Notre Dame and the Department of English. 
A lecture entitled “Brothers Karamazov the Opera: Turning a ‘polyphon­ic’ novel into redemptive religious art” will take place today from 1:55 p.m. to 2:45 
p.m. in Room 210 -214 in McKenna Hall. 
A lecture, “Russian Classics on the Stalinist Stage: The Case of Boris Godunov, 1936 ,” will take place today at 4 p.m. in Room 210-214 in McKenna Hall. 
Jane LaTour, author of “Sisters in the Brotherhoods: Working Women Organizing for Equality in New York City,” will discuss her book from today from 4:30 p.m. to 6:30 
p.m. in Room 117 of DeBartolo Hall. 
Daily mass will be cele­brated at 5:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Jacqueline Vaught Brogan will read poetry from her work “Damage ” at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore today from 7:30 
p.m. to 9 p.m. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Saturday Sunday 

Atlanta 49 /21 Boston 33 / 22 Chicago 26 / 20 Denver 40 / 12 Houston 50 / 33 Los Angeles 59 / 47 Minneapolis 19 / -1 New York 36 / 26 Philadelphia 31 / 25 Phoenix 59 / 47 Seattle 46 / 38 St. Louis 27 / 16 Tampa 58 / 44 Washington 35 / 26 
Wednesday, February 10, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Halls to host polar bear plunge 

“After the disaster in 
Despite the frigid tempera-well,” she Osicek said tures, Badin Hall president said. Haiti, we decided to give originally the Taylor Osicek is anticipating a Osicek said Polar Bear 
all the $5 donations 
strong turnout from the student Badin and Plunge was 
from the participants to
body. Dillon drew meant to raise 
“We are hoping for an atten-inspiration for the fund that student funds for a local dance of at least 250 for our first the event government started.” charity, but year. We are hoping that by from similar with recent using two dorms to sponsor the fundraisers events that 
Taylor Osicek 
event, we can really generate that occur have transpired some enthusiasm for the event,” across major president in Haiti, organ-she said. United States Badin Hall izers of the 
dent, Kaitie McCabe, Badin’s vice president and I realized there are so much fundraising runs in the fall and spring, but thanks to the lovely South Bend weather, there is a total lag in the winter,” Osicek said. “We thought this would be a creative way to fill the 
void.” 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Members discuss Web site to review housing 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
Saturday at 2 p.m., Notre Dame students will be braving the ice-cold waters of St. Joseph Lake in the first annual Polar Bear Plunge, organized by Badin and Dillon Hall. 
should be popular with Notre Dame students, Osicek said. 
“Basically, it’s just running into a body of water in the mid­dle of the winter and running out. It has kind of a cult-like fol­lowing and mob mentality behind it that we hope will translate to Notre Dame 
“We understand that some people are not familiar with the idea, so we hope to introduce them to the premise this year, and get them to participate next year,” Osicek said. 
Participation in the event is relatively straightforward and cities. She cited Chicago as an example, noting that on New Years’ Day participants run into Lake Michigan. Part of the appeal of the event is that it occurs in the winter. 
“Kevin Doyle, the Dillon presi­event have 

changed the focus of the event. 
“Initially we were going to raise the money for the Center for the Homeless, but after the disaster in Haiti, we decided to give all the $5 donations from the participants to the fund that student government has start­ed,” she said. 
Students can to pre-register in both dining halls Wednesday and Thursday, or register Saturday before the 2 p.m. start time at St. Joseph Beach. 
Osicek said the event will entail more than just a swim in the lake. 
“By participating, you are automatically entered in a raffle for Notre Dame Snuggies, and gift cards for restaurants at Eddy Street Commons. We will have free hot chocolate, brown­ies and cookies provided along with some music playing,” she said. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR) discussed the ongoing development of a new Web site that would allow Notre Dame students to rate and review off-campus housing properties at their meeting Tuesday night. 
The Web site, which will be accessed at rent.nd.edu, will enable students to look up off-campus houses and apartments and read reviews from other students, much like the system on www.ndtoday.com 
The idea for the Web site was first brought to student body presid ent over 
“The point of the Web site 
G r a n t updating the Schmid t’s is not so much about sell-property list-attention last ing your house ... It’s ings. 
year when he “The infor­
about conveying
attended a col-mation that is lege sympo-information about a key on this 
sium. The specifc area to students.” Web site is need for a the subjective property-information, 
Cynthia Weber 
review Web the reviews site was student body vice president and ratings,” 
rooms and pricing. 
Rich said once rent.nd.edu is launched and receives more listings, a search feature will be added that will allow for more complex housing searches that include pricing and property features. 
“The point of the Web site is not so much about selling your house,” vice president Cynthia Weber said. “It’s about convey­ing information about a specific area to students.” 
Members of COR expressed concerns over monitoring of the Web site and the updating of objective information about the properties that will be listed. One of the major concerns was 
who would 
have the con­
trol 

brought up as an issue in the student body elections last spring. 
“Basically we want this to be an authentic way for students to review the different housing options they have off campus,” Schmidt said. 
Rent.nd.edu creator, sopho­more Joey Rich, gave COR members a 10-minute demo about the utility of the site and its current functions. 
“Anyone can sign up to make a listing but if you’re a Notre Dame student you get the spe­cial privilege of rating the prop­erties,” Rich said. 
There is even a section where students can rate the landlords from “best friends” to “rotten people.” 
The Web site currently has two categories in which to look for listings and reviews, either 
under houses  or  apartment  
complexes.  
Many  COR  members  

expressed concerns with this feature as well as with the char­acteristic that only one person has control over the objective information about a property, such as amenities, number of Schmidt said. 
“You can always call the landlord or visit the property to learn about the other stuff. This would be an added bonus.” 
Weber agreed with Schmidt that rent.nd.edu will be more about peer reviews and less about students selling their house or apartment. 
“Students will look at the property and talk to a landlord before they decide on a proper­ty,” she said. “This Web site will be a double-check.” 
Weber also responded to COR members’ worries about the current construction of the Web site. 
“Web sites evolve and changes are made when you see how the visitors are using the site,” she said. “You can’t make changes for the future until you see how the way the site will be used.” 
The original plan was to launch rent.nd.edu last night, but after the discussion among COR members, Schmidt decided that further work needed to be done on the Web site. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 10, 2010 
Student government releases benefit CD 
By JILL STINCHCOMB 
News Writer 
Student government recently released “Head Above Water,” a CD containing original music by Notre Dame students whose prof­its will benefit for the Global Water Initiative, 
The CD is being sold for $6 at the LaFortune Information Desk and online at the Student Shop ND until April 1. The proceeds will go to the non-profit organiza­tion The Water Project via the Global Water Initiative. 
“We’ve had a tremendously positive response to the CD. We’ve without access to potable water,” Pham said. 
Sophomore Brian Powers, whose song “One Too Many Things” is featured on the CD, said he participated in the project to help a good cause. 
“Music is such a huge part of my life and I love that something I put so much effort into can help someone else,” Powers said. 
He added, “I like that this gets exposure for the musical scene at Notre Dame, which can be kind of limited. The benefits are twofold.” 
Nicholas Gunty, a sophomore whose song “Winking Prose” is 
featured on the 
CD, also said he 
sold at least 100  “We’ve had a  contributed  to  
CDs, and hope to sell more as it’s a  tremendously positive  support the cause. “I wanted to  
long-term proj­ response to the CD.”  contribute my tal­ 
ect,”  junior  ents to something  
R a c h e l Roseberry, co-director of the Global Water  Rachel Roseberry co-director Global Water Initiative  that I thought was a noble cause,” Gunty said. “Everyone should  
Initiative, said.  buy the CD. It’s a  
“We want to sus­ worthwhile cause  

tain the cause and support the to give your money to regardless, musicians right up until April 1.” and there are definitely some 
Justin Pham, sophomore and gems on the CD.” co-director of the Global Water Roseberry said, “This is a Initiative, said the CD was meant unique opportunity for Notre to have a unifying effect among Dame students to support both Notre Dame students. their fellow students and a cause 
“The mission of our water ini-larger than the Notre Dame com­tiative has been to unite different munity.” parts of the Notre Dame commu­nity to walk in the same steps as Contact Jill Stinchcomb at one another and support people jstinchc@nd.edu 
College holds blood drive 
which allowed more blood Students were able to vol-
By ALICIA SMITH 
to be donated the American unteer to either donate 
News Writer 
Red Cross. blood, or if they were 
“I think it’s something that unable to, they could donate 
The American Red Cross students do if their friends their time by helping check is always in need of blood are doing it. A lot of times people in. and the Office of Civic and at dinner when people are “I really enjoy getting peo-Social Engagement (OCSE) signing up, they will ask ple excited about giving at Saint Mary’s College con-their friends blood and seeing tributed to that need by nearby to give the outcomes of 
organizing a blood drive as well,” she “It’s always great to the blood drive. Tuesday. said. It’s always great 
see how much Saint 
The drive, which took Kornexl said to see how much 
Mary’s is willing to 
place from noon to 6 p.m. in more than 80 Saint Mary’s is the Student Center lounge, people signed give.” willing to give,” gave student the opportuni-u p t o g i v e Kornexl said. ty to give to those in need. blood for this Saint Mary ’s 
Jennifer Kornexl 
Freshman Ali Buckley drive, and College offers 
junior
donated during the drive more than four blood and cited the importance of 100 students, drives a year. saving lives. faculty and Two are held 
“I think it ’s important staff members attended the each semester, Kornexl because, first of all it helps last blood drive. said. a lot of people and it doesn’t Freshman Sarah Huser “There is always a need really take that much from said she donated blood for blood, so if you ’re us and just one pint of blood because there was a need healthy enough to give, we from us could a n d s h e w a s strongly encourage students save some -able to help to consider this opportunity 
“I think it’s important 
one ’s life meet that to save lives,” she said. p o t e n t i a l l y, ” because, frst of all it need. Kornexl the blood drives Buckley said. helps a lot of people “There are are not just open to stu ­
J u n i o r so many peo -dents and the entire com-
and it doesn’t really 
J e n n i f e r ple who can’t munity is invited to share Kornexl take that much from donate blood, the gift of life. helped coor -us and just one pint there’s no rea-The next blood drive will dinate the son why those be held on April 12 from 
of blood from us could 
event by sign-of us who can noon to 6 p.m. Kornexl 
save someone’s life 
i n g s t u d e n t s shouldn’t when urged students and commu­up during potentially.” there are so nity members to visit dinner over many people RedCrossBlood.org and use the past who need it, ” the sponsor code ‘smcnd’ to 
Ali Buckley 
week. Kornexl she said. schedule an appointment to 
freshman
said students Kornexl and donate blood. were more others in the 
likely to donate if their OSCE worked diligently to Contact Alicia Smith at friends gave blood as well, prepare for the drive. asmith01@saintmarys.edu 

World & Nation 
Wednesday, February 10, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 
Haitian man found alive in rubble 
PORT-AU-PRINCE — University of Miami doctors working in Haiti are treating a man who, according to two other Haitians, had been trapped by debris since the Jan. 12 earthquake — but he may have been provided food and water during his reported ordeal. 
The two Haitians’ account could not be con­firmed by doctors at a university field hospital or at a Salvation Army medical center in Port­au-Prince where the man, emaciated and suf­fering from dehydration, was first brought by the two men on Monday. 
Nery Ynclan, a University of Miami media officer in Haiti, said the patient was in stable condition Tuesday and being treated for dehy­dration and malnutrition. The man identified himself as Evans Monsigrace, 28, she said, adding that his family told doctors varying accounts of his ordeal. 
Sri Lankan parliament dissolved 
COLOMBO, Sri Lanka — Sri Lanka’s presi­dent dissolved parliament to make way for spring elections a day after authorities arrest­ed a key opposition leader, crippling the only serious threat to the ruling party’s stifling grip on power. 
President Mahinda Rajapaksa’s move Tuesday to call parliamentary elections fol­lows his sweeping victory at the polls last month over his former army chief Gen. Sarath Fonseka, who had defected to the opposition after helping to end the country’s quarter-century civil war. Fonseka was arrested by the military on Monday on sedition charges. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Senate Dems unveil jobs package 
WASHINGTON — Senate Democrats circu­lated a jobs bill Tuesday that’s light on new initiatives on boosting hiring and heavy with provisions sought by lobbyists for business groups, doctors and the satellite broadcast­ing industry. 
Senate Democrats were working to round up Republican support, but more snow in the nation’s capital made it unlikely the Senate could pass it this week and hand President Barack Obama a quick, badly needed politi­cal victory. Republicans are willing partners because much of the bill is made up of tax breaks they support, though many GOP sen­ators said they were still waiting to see the details. 
Mudslides threaten L.A. foothills 
LA CANADA FLINTRIDGE, Calif. — Homeowners in mud-ravaged foothill towns north of Los Angeles packed their cars and left Tuesday as evacuation orders took hold and a new winter storm arrived. 
Officials issued evacuation orders for 541 homes on the hillsides of La Canada Flintridge, La Crescenta, Acton and two canyons. Los Angeles County sheriff’s deputies went door to door, urging people to leave; those who refused signed waivers acknowledging they were aware of the risk. 
Sheriff’s deputies also asked residents to move their vehicles and trash cans away from the streets, where heavy rain on Saturday caused water and rocks to roar through, smashing cars and concrete barriers together. 
Officials also issued evacuation orders late Tuesday for parts of the foothill city of Sierra Madre. 
LOCAL NEWS 
Democrats plan new job legislation 
INDIANAPOLIS — Look for Democrats in the Indiana House to introduce legislation in the coming days that they say will be aimed at creating jobs. 
Democratic House Speaker Patrick Bauer of South Bend says job creation will be the top agenda item for his caucus in the second half of the legislative ses­sion. 
He says he hopes to get bipartisan sup­port to pass legislation that puts people back to work, assists small businesses and holds companies accountable for the promises they make to create jobs. 
IRAN 
Iranian nuclear program advances 
Obama responds to uranium enrichment with warning of possible sanctions 
Associated Press 
TEHRAN — Iranian nuclear technicians set dozens of centrifuges spin­ning Tuesday to begin enriching uranium stocks to a significantly higher level, prompting President Barack Obama to warn of a “signifi­cant regime of sanctions.” 
Iran’s acceleration in its enrichment program was a defiant step that puts weapons-grade uranium in closer reach, should Tehran choose to go after the bomb. It was also another in a series of mixed messages that appeared calculated to boost Iran’s leverage in negotiations with world powers on limiting its nuclear program. 
Only days ago, President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said Iran was ready to send its stockpiled uranium — currently enriched to safer, low levels — to Russia and France for processing into fuel rods to power a research reactor. That was proposed last year in a U.N.-drafted plan aimed at eliminating Iran’s ability to enrich those stocks to high­er levels needed for making warheads. 
Obama, speaking at a sur­prise appearance in the White house briefing room, said the sanctions process is sary for the Tehran reactor. Gates said he believed the nations, and these doubts moving along quickly, but Iran’s current stockpile has U.N. should slap new sanc-are quite well-founded,” he gave no specific timeline. been spun to a level of 3.5 tions on Iran in “weeks, not said Nikolai Patrushev, the 
In his most extensive percent, suitable for use in months,” according to his chief of Russia’s Security remarks on Iran in some fueling power plants, which spokesman. Council. time, Obama said Iran is Iran’s primary stated aim France also said Iran’s Senior diplomats from the appeared to have spurned for its enrichment program. action left no choice but to six major powers — the his offer of engagement. The United States and its push harder for a fourth set U.S., Russia, China, Britain, 
But even announcing its allies in Europe suspect Iran of U.N. Security Council France and Germany — latest step, Iran was careful is using such civilian work sanctions to punish Iran’s held a conference call last to leave the door open to a to mask an effort to develop nuclear defiance. Friday to discuss a U.S.-pro­negotiated solution, saying a weapons capability. Even Russia, which has duced list of possible new it would stop the work if the Central to their concern is friendly ties with Iran and sanctions. U.N. diplomats West found a way to provide uranium enrichment, which has opposed new sanctions, briefed on the talks, speak-it with fuel for the research at levels of 90 percent pro-appeared to edge closer to ing on condition of reactor, which makes radio vide a possible pathway to other Security Council anonymity because they isotopes for use in cancer nuclear arms production. members supporting harder were private, said no deci­treatment. Iran denies it wants to penalties, saying the enrich-sions were made. 
“Whenever they provide produce weapons but has ment work has raised new Diplomats say China holds the fuel, we will halt pro-defied U.N. resolutions suspicions. the key to new sanctions duction of 20 percent,” Ali demanding it halt enrich-“Iran says it doesn’t want and Tuesday’s statement Akbar Salehi, the head of ment as a way of easing the to have nuclear weapons. from its Foreign Ministry Iran’s nuclear program, told concerns. But its actions, including its calling for more talks indi­state TV late Monday. Even before the decision to enrich uranium cates that Beijing is not yet 
He was referring to the announcement, U.S. to 20 percent, have raised ready to impose tough new level of enrichment neces-Defense Secretary Robert doubts among other measures. 

Scandalized N.Y. gov. refuses to quit race 
have voiced their preference that blow to a party that just two years 
Associated Press 
Attorney General Andrew Cuomo run ago saw a landslide amid the election 
ALBANY, N.Y. — New York Gov. for governor when Paterson’s term is of Obama. David Paterson, defying calls from up. Paterson appeared to take heart even fellow Democrats to drop out of That infighting and the recent from an interview earlier in the day the race for a full term, said Tuesday rumormongering have further frac-with The New York Times, which had that he would leave only if the voters tured state Democrats and added a been widely anticipated to be prepar­turned him out through the ballot decidedly weird edge to the national ing a story dealing with his personal box, or “in a box.” party’s struggle to maintain ground it conduct. He said that in the interview 
Paterson spoke to reporters after gained in the last election. he was not asked about drug use in several days of rumors sweeping the Facing challenges from coast to the governor’s mansion or partying state Capitol about carousing in the coast amid voter frustration with with women. governor’s mansion, all of which incumbents of both parties, “The only way I’m not going to be Paterson strongly denied. Democrats in particular are girding governor next year is at the ballot 
Since Paterson took over from his for losses that could see states’ chief box, and the only way that I will be predecessor, who resigned in a prosti-executives go into Republican hands. leaving the office before is in a box,” tution scandal, his popularity has New York, a traditionally Democratic-Paterson said during a news confer-plummeted and many Democrats leaning state, would be a devastating ence. 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, February 10, 2010 
Jenkins 
continued from page 1 
day-to-day decisions you make ... Living an ethical life is about developing habits. If you devel­op good habits, they’re called virtues.” 
Jenkins touched on how one should ethically approach especially difficult and complex decisions. 
“Some of the toughest deci­sions aren’t public,” Jenkins said. 
From his own experience, Jenkins put special emphasis on the line of self-questioning. 
“What are the principles that should guide this decision? What decision can I make that accords with these principles?” he said. 
During the question and answer session following the lecture, conversation quickly turned to Jenkins’ highly con­troversial decision to invite President Obama to present the main address at the 2009 

Professor 
continued from page 1 
Burns as a teacher who “really cared about and kept in touch with his students.” 
“Bob was an affectionate and humorous man both in and out of the classroom,” Schlereth said in a press release. “I will always think of him as a story broker. He always had an engaging story to tell, and he always expected an engaging story in return.” 
Phillip Gleason, a Notre Dame historian and colleague of Burns, described him as “extraordinary in his adaptability, generosity and willingness to take on other duties in service to the University.” 
Burns served the University beyond his teaching and scholar­ship by taking on a variety of administrative duties. He was acting editor of the University’s Review of Politics, Notre Dame’s journal of political philosophy, from 1967 to 1968. 
He also directed a year-long 
Rhoades 
continued from page 1 
For Notre Dame, in particular, Rhoades said he hoped that the University would uphold its Catholic heritage. 
“This is my prayer for the University of Notre Dame — 
“Our institutions
that it may of Guadalupe always be faith-make a vital appeared. ful to its Catholic In an inter-
contribution to the 
mission by con-view with The 
mission of our church
stantly growing Observer during in its commit-and truly serve a reception fol­ment and wit-lowing the mass, 
societies.” 
ness to truth and Rhoades said he c h a r i t y, ” looks forward to 
Rhoades said. Bishop Kevin Rhoades integrating into “That our Diocese of Fort the Notre Dame Catholic ideals, Wayne-South Bend community. 
attitudes and principles per­vade all aspects of University life — teaching, research, cur­ricular and extracurricular activities.” 
Rhoades also recognized his reception from the Notre Dame community. 
“In the past few months, I have received an incredibly warm welcome from Fr. Jenkins and the whole Notre Dame com­munity, including the priests and the resident students at Commencement ceremony. 
“This president is pro-choice, there’s no doubt about it, and that’s significant,” he said. “It’s about respecting the office. 
“I know people seriously dis­agree and I respect that ... You just have to do what you think is right.” 
The session concluded with questions regarding the future and the challenges it presents to the University as a place of higher education and moral formation. 
“It’s always difficult to be dif­ferent. I think there’s a gravita­tional pull towards acting like others … I think we’ve resisted that,” Jenkins said, citing the University’s unique incorpora­tion of morality, faith and serv­ice into academics and student life. 
“In the end, it’s people who are committed to being differ­ent, to living an ethical life. That difference is sometimes the greatest challenge.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
program to train high school his­tory teachers in 1967 and served as dean of Notre Dame’s sum­mer session from 1969 to 1971. Burns was an associate dean of the College of Arts and Letters from 1971 to 1981 and served as acting dean from 1981 to 1983. 
“The accomplishment in which Bob took the greatest pride while in the dean’s office was his initiative of Notre Dame’s highly successful London program for juniors in Arts and Letters, which provided both students and faculty in the college an incomparably enriching experi­
ence,”  Gleason  said  in  the  
release.  
Burns  retired  from  Notre  
Dame in 1995.  

“Bob was heartily devoted to Notre Dame and served her in a great variety of ways,” Gleason said. “Perhaps the most lasting testimony to his love for the University is represented by his ‘Notre Dame Story.’ 
“He will be missed by his many friends, and the memory of Robert E. Burns should be long cherished here.” 
Siegfried Hall and Morrissey Manor, [where] I celebrated dorm mass last week,” he said. 
At the end of mass, Jenkins presented Rhoades with a bish­op’s staff depicting Our Lady of Guadalupe, drawn by a member of the art department. The image had particular signifi­cance for Rhoades, who was ordained as bishop on the feast of Juan Diego, to whom our Lady 
“I am looking 
forward to hav­ing a lot of opportunities to be here on campus to celebrate liturgy and to really be a part of the community,” Rhoades said. “As Pope John Paul said and I said in my homily, the bishop shouldn’t be seen as an external agent, but as a real part of the community and that’s my hope and my prayer.” 
Contact Katlyn Smith at ksmith33@nd.edu 
Abroad 
continued from page 1 
Rome and Toledo, she said. “The English language pro­grams tend to be strong,” she said. 
Sophomore Kelly Kraus, who was accepted into the London Program for Spring 2011, said she’s never traveled abroad and is very excited. 
“I have never been abroad before and it will definitely be a new experience for me,” she said. “I hope to also visit Ireland, France and Spain, among other places.” 
For students who were wait-listed, OIS laid out a series of guidelines on their Web site to help with the process. 
Opel said it is important to note there is no ranking on any of the waiting lists, and the who will be accepted depends on the accepted stu­dents who choose to withdraw. 
“In some programs, a spot may open up for a male because another male dropped out, or there may be room for an engineering major,” she said. 
Although there were many qualified applications for each program, Opel said sometimes OIS is limited by the number of students it can extend invita­tions to based on the number of available slots at the school. 
“In some programs we’re restricted in the number of students we can send and that sets off the number of total acceptances,” she said. “For example in the Hong Kong program, even if we have 50 terrific applicants, we can only send four students.” 
Opel said movement on the wait list usually happens between now and April, but it does continue over the sum­mer. 
Contact Liz O’Donnell at eodonne1@nd.edu 
The Observer 
Business
Wednesday, February 10, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

IN BRIEF 
Private colleges look to rein in aid 
In the last year, the nation's private col­leges have laid off staff, shelved construction projects, slashed sports teams and turned down thermostats to cut costs. But student financial aid has kept flowing. 
Now the weak economy is forcing some institutions to limit their generosity after many of them doubled or even tripled finan­cial aid over the last decade to attract more applicants and reduce student debt. 
Two of the nation's most selective private colleges — Dartmouth and Williams — announced they would no longer offer aid packages that allow students of any income to attend without taking out loans. Other schools are expected to follow suit, meaning many middle-class students will have to take on more debt. 
Situations vary depending on the school, but experts expect financial aid at private schools to be less generous than last year while colleges increase tuition by 4 to 6 per­cent. 
Bond yields rise with return to stocks 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. — Interest rates rose in the bond market Tuesday after investors moved back into stocks and a three-year note sale generated less demand. 
Bonds also lost some of their safe-harbor appeal as European officials appeared to be mov­ing closer to a solution for Greece's debt crisis. Bond and stock investors have been concerned that Greece's fiscal troubles could undermine Europe's common currency, the euro, and desta­bilize debt markets. 
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 150 points, back above the psychological barrier of 10,000. It closed below 10,000 on Monday for the first time since Nov. 4. 
The yield on the 10-year Treasury note that matures in November 2019 rose to 3.65 percent from 3.57 percent late Monday. Its price fell 22/32 to 97 24/32. That yield is a widely used bench­mark for consumer loans including mortgages. 
Expectations of a bailout for Greece helped global markets bounce back. Reports that European Central Bank President Jean-Claude Trichet is changing his travel schedule to attend a meeting of EU officials Thursday where the Greek debt crisis will be discussed. 
JAPAN 
Toyota recalls 437,000 hybrids 
The Japanese automaker issues additional recall on its popular Prius, among others 
Associated Press 
TOKYO — Toyota is recalling 437,000 Prius and other hybrid vehicles worldwide to fix brake problems — the latest embarrassing safety lapse at the world’s largest automaker. 
“I don’t see Toyota as an infallible company that never makes mistakes,” President Akio Toyoda said at a news conference Tuesday. “We will face up to the facts and correct the problem, putting cus­tomers’ safety and conven­ience first.” 
The number of vehicles recalled globally by Toyota Motor Corp. now has bal­looned to 8.5 million, including for floor mats that can trap gas pedals and faulty gas pedals that are slow to return to the idle position. The 2010 model of the Prius — the world’s top-selling hybrid and Japan’s top-selling car — wasn’t part of the earlier recalls. 
There have been about 200 complaints in Japan and the U.S. about a delay when the brakes in the Prius were pressed in cold conditions and on some bumpy roads. The delay doesn’t indicate a brake failure. The company says the problem can be fixed in Toyota officials went to the Sai and Lexus HS250h Japanese media for failing 40 minutes with new soft-Japan’s Transport Ministry in Japan until the updated to outline concrete steps to ware that oversees the con-earlier Tuesday to formally software for those models is tackle the safety crisis and trols of the antilock brakes. notify officials the company ready. reassure customers. 
U.S. Transportation is recalling the 2010 Prius If drivers experience a In contrast to his halting Secretary Ray LaHood said gas-electric hybrid. The delayed reaction when English in response to ques­in a statement Tuesday that automaker is also recalling depressing the brakes in tions from foreign reporters Toyota’s leaders have two other hybrid models in any of these models, they at last week’s news confer-assured him they are taking Japan, the Lexus HS250h should keep pressing, ence, Toyoda seemed much safety concerns “very seri-sedan, sold in the U.S. and according to Toyota and the better prepared Tuesday, ously.” The statement said Japan, and the Sai, which is transport ministry. reading from an English LaHood’s agency will stay in sold only in Japan. The Prius repairs will statement after doing so in constant communication The 223,000 cars being start in Japan on Japanese. with Toyota to hold the recalled in Japan include Wednesday. U.S. owners “We will do everything in company to its promise. nearly 200,000 Priuses sold will start receiving letters our power to regain the 
Also, State Farm, the from April last year about the recall next week. confidence of our cus­largest auto insurer in the through Monday, according Toyoda, the president, tomers,” Toyoda said. U.S., said it alerted federal to papers the automaker has been criticized for He said he planned to go regulators late in 2007 filed with the ministry. being largely invisible dur-to the U.S. soon to talk with about a rise in reports of In the U.S., Toyota will ing the two weeks after the American workers and unexpected acceleration in recall 133,000 Prius cars company announced Jan. dealers to bring the ranks Toyota vehicles. and 14,500 Lexus HS250h 21 the gas pedal recall in together. Congressional investigators vehicles. Nearly 53,000 the U.S., Europe and China. Analysts said fears of an are looking into whether Priuses are also being He apologized at his first even bigger consumer the government missed recalled in Europe. Toyota public news conference last backlash prodded Toyota warning signs. is suspending production of Friday, but was criticized by into recalling the Prius. 

Stocks jump on hope of Greek debt rescue 
Associated Press Spain. The European debt problems are the 
Though Greece’s economy is small, latest obstacle to trip up the stock mar-
NEW YORK — The Dow Jones indus-that country’s yawning budget gaps ket after 10 months of steep gains. trial average jumped back above 10,000 were undermining faith in the euro, Stocks began retreating in mid-January on hope that a resolution was near for Europe’s common currency. Investors after China said it would try to control Greece’s debt crisis. also believed that other countries might its economy to avoid speculative bub-
The Dow rose 150 points Tuesday, a have trouble raising money in debt mar-bles. Things got worse when President day after closing below 10,000 for the kets, which would hamper efforts to get Barack Obama announced plans to curb first time in three months. The major their economies going again. trading by large financial institutions. indexes all gained more than 1 percent. World stock markets have been tum-“There’s some euphoria that maybe Treasury prices slid as demand for safer bling in recent weeks on concerns that it’s not going to be blowing up,” said investments fell. debt problems would spread. The euro Erik Davidson, managing director of 
Global markets bounced back on is still down about 5 percent for the investments for Wells Fargo Private reports that plans are being developed year, but rose for a second day against Bank in Carmel, Calif., referring to eas­in the European Union to rescue the dollar as the outlook improved for ing fears over Greece. Davidson said Greece. That raised hopes that policy-Greece. some of the market’s slide had been makers will take bigger steps to contain Greece took steps Tuesday to calm over concern that stocks had risen too debt troubles in other weak European markets, pledging to slash spending and far. The problems in Greece provided a economies including Portugal and raise fuel taxes. handy excuse to sell, he said. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
page 8 Wednesday, February 10, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Sarah Mervosh Michael Bryan Amanda Gray Molly Sammon John Cameron Andrew Owens Graphics Scene Sofia Iturbe Jordan Gamble Viewpoint Patricia Fernandez 
Culture of college rankings becoming toxic 
In 1983, U.S. News & World Report published their first-ever college rank­ings. It seemed an innocent enough way to gain some new readers, while poten­tially providing insight to prospective college students as to exactly Andy Ziccarelli which schools were very consid-Moment of ered “the best.” Inertia After all, this was more than a decade before use of the Internet proliferated, which would make this kind of data extremely easy to find for future generations. Little did they know, however, that this simple list would ignite a firestorm in the academic community and create an entirely new line of thinking for high school students, parents, and counselors. 
The very concept of listing which col­lege is “the best” is a completely inane concept, and it is an exercise in futility. Different colleges have different mis­sions and each one has unique qualities about them. Even with we just compare major research universities (or just lib­eral arts colleges, etc.) the range of schools is so broad, and many of the philosophies and cultures are so differ­ent, it is useless to compare them. The whole ranking system treats college education as a commodity, almost as though every school provides essentially the same experience, and that these higher ranked ones are “better” than the other ones ranked below them on the list, with complete disregard for any subjective, non-quantifiable considera­tions. The whole concept is so American, and it feeds off of the culture of competi­tion that exists in this country. Americans always want to be better than their neighbor at everything, and this list finally gives them grounds to compete with each other when it comes to higher education. 
Beyond the mere concept of this sys­tem, though, I also have an issue with the methodology that is used. Twenty-five percent of the rankings are derived from a survey of deans of other academ­ic institutions and their ratings their competitors’ “perceived academic excel-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
lence,” as if they can actually quantify that on a one to five scale. For example, do you think that a dean at the University of Florida or UCLA knows about Notre Dame’s recent commitment to engineering research and the fact that the school just opened a brand new, state-of-the-art engineering building? I would hope that they are more focused on bettering their own school. This past year, Notre Dame dropped to 20th in the rankings, from a tie for 18th, largely due to the fact that our peer assessment scores are lower than every school near us on the list. So does that mean that because some administrators who have never set foot on this campus don’t think that highly of Notre Dame, our educa­tion that we are receiving is now “worse” than it was last year? 
Now, if this was simply a list in an obscure news magazine that came and went, then that would be one thing. But the USN&WR rankings have become a cultural phenomenon to the point that it now has a tremendous impact on acade­mia. Without knowing too much about Notre Dame before my experiences here the last three years, it seems as though the University places a priority on rais­ing their own ranking, though I would imagine that everyone in the adminis­tration will deny it. The term “aspira­tional peer” is a term that is thrown around far too frequently on this cam­pus, and it bothers me every time I hear it. The term is usually applied to schools that are perceived to be “better” aca­demically than Notre Dame, such as Northwestern, Duke and Stanford, and it seems as though we are craving for them to accept us as peers. Why don’t we just focus on making Notre Dame the best it can possibly be? I’m obviously supportive of the school continuing to improve itself; but that can be a unilat­eral exercise. Notre Dame’s mission and culture are unique (as are Northwestern’s and Duke’s, etc.), and any standardized comparison to doesn’t do either any justice. Just because it is convenient and easy to compare our­selves to these schools through numeri­cal rankings (all you have to do is look at the list), it doesn’t mean that it is right to do it. 
Beyond our campus, though, I see the rankings and competitive mindset per­meate through high schools to the point where the first question some of my peers would ask after a prospective school was introduced would be, “Well, where is it ranked?” If it wasn’t high enough for their standards, it was immediately thrown from consideration. I know of parents who didn’t allow their kids to apply to certain schools because they weren’t ranked high enough and they thought that their kids “could do better.” An extreme case was a parent who, allegedly, refused to allow her son to apply to any school that was not ranked in the USN&WR top 25. Period. I have no way of knowing if this is true, but if other high schools are anything like the one I attended, then I have absolutely no problem believing it. The rankings are turning college admissions into a high-stakes, pressure-packed game, in which the goal is to gain brag­ging rights over instead of finding the school that is the best fit. 
I chose to attend Notre Dame because I thought that it would be the most com­plete fit for me, personally. I did it not because it was the most highly ranked school I was accepted by, but because I considered the location, student body, unique culture, academics and my own personal experiences with the atmos­phere on campus, and then decided that it was the right fit. I would urge anyone picking colleges to look beyond an arbi­trary list (who made USN&WR the authority on college, anyway?) and find the best college according to you, not a magazine. 
Andy Ziccarelli wants everyone to come out and support the Bengal Bouts this Saturday. Bonus points will be awarded to anyone who knows the origin of his nickname. Andy is a junior majoring in civil engineering and can be reached at aziccare@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
Which of these is the best student government platform idea? 
Treehouse “Perspectives” series Follett textbook rental Other 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I finally figured out the onlyreason to be alive is to enjoy it.” 
Rita Mae Brown 
U.S. writer 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 
Wednesday, February 10, 2010 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
A new perspective 
Julian and I want to thank all our supporters. We ran the race and we battled until the end but the other team came out on top. Our campaign has come to an end but what we stand for has not. 
This is not the end of “A New Perspective.” It will live on through the voice and the experience of every person who has the willpower to make a difference. “A New Perspective” is not a set of promises, but it is a set of challenges. It sums up not only the intention of what “A New Perspective” will offer, but also what “A New Perspective” will ask. These times call for us to gather around the tables in our dorms, our dining halls, our classrooms and any other place where we can meet to explore unknown solutions that will give way to a future that rains down on us with opportunity. 
As long as there are unsolved problems, there will be unknown solutions. There will be risks that we will have to take and there will be trials that we will have to perse­vere. We will not be complacent and turn to the medioc­rity of the past for answers, but instead we will have courage and press forward into the feature where “A New Perspective” is waiting to be found. 
Congratulations to Soler and Bell and I wish them the best in the future. 
Sincerely, 
Your fellow classmates, 
Eras Roy Noel III and Julian Corona 
Eras Noel 
junior 
Siegfried Hall 
Feb. 8 
PEMCo Understands Racial Sensitivities 
Admittedly, I was first tempted to write a response to Mr. Fink’s ill-conceived notion that this campus wants to revisit the Viewpoint war and the accompanying debate over President Obama’s visit and the abortion issue (It doesn’t. Seriously, leave it alone for everyone’s sake). However, I cannot in good conscience sit idly by and let Ms. Francillon’s condemnation of PEMCO’s staff, choice of show, and that show’s message (“Need for diversity in the arts,” Feb. 8) go unchallenged. 
First and foremost, it must be stated that “Parade” is not about “a black man on trial for murder.” It centers on Leo Frank, a Jew raised in New York who is falsely put on trial as a scape­goat for the murder of a young girl in the Deep South. These Southerners fall prey to the mob mentality and its lust for blood, and focus their rage on the one man who is most unlike them within the community. Accusations that are made based on hearsay and without the necessary back­ground research to back them up shouldn’t be tol­erated, and it angers me that such false and inflammatory remarks were written. 
I fully understand the issue at hand regarding ethnicity and the casting of shows at the college level and beyond. So too does PEMCo. In 2008’s production of “Kiss Me, Kate!” the lead role of Fred Graham was played by Kyle Carter, a black male in what has historically been a white role. Surely one example does not make a compelling or airtight argument, but can it truly be said that a show as racially charged as “Parade” or “Ragtime” would have its intended impact without that glaring dichotomy on stage? I submit that it would not, and that the place for breaking ethnic barriers in theatre are elsewhere. 
Regarding the workshop mentioned in the previ­ous letter, I wholeheartedly support a dialogue examining the choices that exist to create theatre experiences that support actors of any race. However, if choosing “Parade” as this season’s PEMCo Mainstage is going to be under fire, then it must be stated that this show was chosen for a reason: on a campus where diversity remains such an issue, what better way to stimulate dia­logue than by performing a show that preaches the importance — nay, necessity — of racial sensi­tivity? 
Indeed, Jason Robert Brown, the writer and composer behind “Parade” will be on campus and holding a discussion following Sunday’s perform­ance. He will most certainly be touching on the racial implications of performing this show. I encourage everyone, and particularly Ms. Francillon, to attend and get some first hand knowledge about this sure-to-be impressive pro­duction. 
Break a leg, guys. 
Kevin Murphy 
junior 
Stanford Hall 
Feb. 9 
POLITICS DAILY 
Liz Christman, enemy of the passive voice, who rocked some jaunty hats 
My writing teacher and friend Elizabeth Christman, who wore a spiffy new suit and hat on the first day of every semester and was one of the finest humans ever, died last week at age 96. To be hon­est, I am complete-Melinda 
ly bereft. Henneberger
Miss Christman, professor emeritus 
Politics Daily 
of American stud­ies at the University of Notre Dame, was a literary agent in New York who read “The Catcher in the Rye” when it was still in manuscript form, and once took Agatha Christie shopping for a bathing suit. But that was before she went back to school at the unheard of age of 52, to pursue a doctorate and a dream — to teach young idealists how to change the world with their words. 
Writer of notes and wearer of pearls, she kept a framed photo of Henry James in her kitchen and a rosary on her night stand. She taught Trollope well into her 80s, and while sensible in the extreme, also had the most conta­gious sense of occasion. 
Although I will not succeed in com­municating her awesome Liz-ness to those who did not know her, I can at least tell you what she told me: The passive voice is the enemy. There will be time enough. Reading is the most enduring of all life’s pleasures. Deciding what you want is the difficult part; the rest is just hard work. No extraneous words. “Middlemarch” is the best book written in English. Writers write; you can’t just tell them you won a contest! I think we should have a glass of wine, don’t you? Soon you will be happy to be referred to as girls. 
The only person I ever knew her to actively dislike was a college beau of mine — also her student — whom she dismissed as “too silly for you.’’ In her later years, when her short-term mem­ory had gone, she repeatedly confessed that — now it can be told! — she was, in fact, a Democrat. Whenever I phoned, she’d cry, “How did you ever find me here?’’ in assisted living — and then would laugh when I’d answer, “Hey, I’m a reporter, aren’t I?” 
The eldest of seven, Liz grew up in St. Louis, and after graduating from Webster College — now Webster University — in 1935, moved into a gar­ret in her parents’ house to pursue a career as a writer. In her unpublished memoir, “Twenty Septembers,” she remembers, “I fixed up a studio for myself in the attic of our home, and to it I would retreat and turn out stories and verse which I hoped would get me started commercially. My father didn’t press me to get a job, though he had six other children coming up behind me to educate. He was willing to let me try this out.” 
She made some sales, netting $25 for a short story published in The Catholic World and $1.50 a line for some humorous poems that ran in The Saturday Evening Post. But “I didn’t think of any career ... as a total lifetime undertaking,’’ she said in her memoir. “I expected to marry, and in the days of my youth few women ever continued their careers after marriage. Writing, in fact, fitted in better with my scenario of a future as wife and mother than any other job. It was the kind of work one could do in intervals between wiping cute little noses and preparing succu­lent meals.” 
That never happened, despite two marriage proposals that I know of. And, during her New York years, “there was a man I loved long and deeply but could not marry.” As a younger woman, she was “left at the altar,” as she always put it, and to get over it joined the Navy as a WAVE and was posted to Washington during World War II. In New York after the war, she worked her way up from the typing pool to become a sub-agent for Harold Ober — Mr. Ober to her. Never one to hesitate on her way to making a point, she recalled a prominent writer’s complaint that he’d come down with a raging case of writer’s block after running a work in progress past “that horrid Miss Christman.” 
She received her doctorate from NYU and at last became an associate profes­sor in her 60s, fortunately for me and every other AmStud major at Notre Dame, where she made a habit of invit­ing entire classes over for lasagna — and on at least one occasion, a rib-bruising marathon of the word game “fictionary.” Though I’m still not sure that writing can be taught, I never learned more from a teacher. 
She was a late bloomer as a writer as well, publishing four novels, including the gloriously semi-trashy “A Nice Italian Girl,’’ which was made into a TV movie, and another about a woman who discovers that her husband is gay. Her greatest work, though, was the unlikely life she built for herself, brick by brick, with equal parts rigor and joy. As a Christian and as a writer, she was of the “don’t tell them, show them” school; in class, she spoke of Flannery O’Connor’s Catholicism rather than of her own, and I only knew she went to Mass every day because she arrived for lunch appointments straight from Sacred Heart. 
Immediately after graduation, I received one of her patented notes inviting me to begin calling her Liz, and from then on we exchanged letters, calls, and visits as friends — though believe me, never equals. She was so much on my mind last week, yet I didn’t call her because — ninny! — I dreaded telling her that J.D. Salinger had died. 
Her sister, Mary Ellen Hyde Mooney, told me on the phone that she had been fine until just last Monday, when she announced that she was tired, went to bed, and then slipped away over the next several days, while Mary and her daughter said the rosary with her. 
In her memoir, Liz ended her own story this way: 
“Besides teaching students, I’ve taught myself. The best way to learn a thing, they say, is to teach it. By the constant concentration on what makes good writing, close examination of both good and bad examples, tireless reiter­ation to my students of such principles as “prefer the concrete to the abstract,” I’ve improved my own writing. Even if my students haven’t written many nov­els, I have written five. And it was teaching that got me started.” 
The Notre Dame campus is beautiful in September. All summer long the chirping sprinklers have kept the lawns thick and green. How charmingly these lawns are populated with sunburned young men and women in shorts, hur­rying or dawdling to their classes. September in campus life is the new year, and it feels full of resolution and promise. Each September I relished this beginning more keenly, realizing that there couldn’t be many more for me. Having found my true calling late in life, I have nothing but gratitude for the universities that took a chance on me and the colleagues who welcomed me into their fortunate circles. Leaving these circles, I take with me the memo­ry of charmed years. ... Those golden September campuses can’t fade or fray.” 
This column first ran in the Feb. 8 edition of Politics Daily. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 
Scene
page 10 Wednesday, February 10, 2010 
There is an egregious travesty happen­ing every day, every minute in our little Notre Dame Bubble. In our dining halls. In our dorm rooms. In our on-and off-campus eateries. It is overlooked and under-advocated. That’s right, I’m talking about the merciless slaughter and con-Marie Claire sumption of alarm-
O’Donnell 
ing amounts of vegetables. 
But the tragedy Scene Writer is not just the over­consumption and thoughtless killing. These vegetables are oppressed and beleaguered their whole vitamin-enriched lives. 
Think about it. Veggies are given a bad rap. Kids turn up their noses at them, choosing instead to munch on brightly colored fruits like apples or peaches, or deliciously cheesy snacks like Cheez-Its. Vegetables are associated with mashed-up baby foods. 
From then on, children are turned off by the mere mention of peas, broccoli or carrots. The whole food group is then rel­egated to the position of punishment for children, a food that must be eaten, pushed around on a plate or slyly shoved under chair cushions before a scrump­tious, gooey chocolate chip cookie can be eaten. 
By adolescence and young adulthood, the stigma surrounding vegetables lessens, but it is replaced with anoth­er problem: consumption at alarm­ing rates. Carrots are ruthlessly pulled from their cozy, earthen homes, peas torn from their snug pods and corn ripped from its stalks. No thought is given to the heartlessness of these acts. In fact, the recent hipness of vegetarianism only exacerbates the prob­lem. Now it is “cool” to massacre inno-


Hundreds, if not thousands, of cornstalks were mown down to create those crop circles. Destruction and devas­tation reigned in those corn communities, all so that M. Night Shyamalan could make another movie with 
compared to their partners on the Food Pyramid, fruits. According to the Food Pyramid, which is a hierarchy I can believe in, vegetables are actually more important than fruits, meriting 3-5 serv­ings daily compared to only 2-4 daily servings of fruit. 
But still, fruits are given the top spot that vegetables deserve. It is always “fruits and vegetables,” but why can’t it be “vegetables and fruits?” What do they have that veggies lack? It can’t be an alphabetical order thing, because it’s always “Sonny and Cher,” and last I checked, “c” came before “s” in the 
And why are fruits always the choice for decoration or gift baskets? It’s always a fruit bowl in the middle of the table, or a fruit basket sent as a “Get Well Soon” gift. Are vegetables not pretty enough for use as decoration? Sure, apples and pears are shiny and bright, but have you ever seen the deep purple color of a ripe eggplant? That’s the color of royalty right there. Sure, pumpkins and gourds are used at Thanksgiving, but that holiday only comes once a year. And shouldn’t vegetables be sent to people recovering from illnesses? The vitamins would prob­ably greatly help the healing process, without all the sugar naturally found in 
This is on behalf of the poor vegetables, persecuted and abused in silence every­where. These vegetables have no voice. When they are slaughtered, they cannot 
express their pain in human 
terms. So, from now on, let’s all 
be Equal Opportunity Eaters, 
Decorators and Gifters. Don’t 
let the vegetables go under 
advocated for any longer. 
Marie Claire O’Donnell can be reached at modonne5@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 

By SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Writer 
Commercials, normally just money­making breathers that more often than not go unnoticed except for the occasional talking gecko, are as much the life-blood of the Super Bowl as are touchdowns and fourth quarter nail-biters. 
Chips and six different kinds of dip neatly laid out on the table, we all sit there, our eyes glued to the television screen, as millions and millions of dollars are (wisely or unwisely?) spent for the mere chance to capture the widest television audience of the year. And it’s that golden chance to not merely advertise but have a last­ing effect on consumers that pushes companies to create elaborate, inter­esting, innovative, altogether enter­taining commercials — the same com­mercials that we’ve now made a hobby of watching. 
It’s the game that we care about, yes, but it’s the commercials that we stop all else for as we watch in antici­patory silence for our next favorite of the night. And it’s those favorites that we talk about and go on to remember not only in the moments after, but years later. 
I still remember my favorite com­mercials from Super Bowls past, and it’s those standouts, like those from this year’s crop, that justify our infat­uation. 
With Sunday’s pickings still vivid, here are 10 commercials that stood out from the rest during the tri­umphant Saints win (sorry Colts fans, had to rub it in). 
E-Trade Baby (girlfriend) 
E-trade has quickly become one of the staple ad campaigns of the Super Bowl with its hit baby commercial and this year’s follow-up only added to the company’s ad success. 
Google 
While some might find this pick odd (and the fact that Google even felt the need to advertise odd), this simplistic, heartfelt and perfectly measured love story told in Google searches was the standout of this year’s Super Bowl. It’s quite beautiful actually. It was per­plexing and somewhat weird at first, but once it becomes clear what’s hap­pening, Google shows a heart and a creativity that in the end sheds light on just why the company is so amaz­ing. 
Monster (beaver violinist) 
Yeah, it has kind of been done before, but Monster’s 30-second tale of a beaver whose simple passion for violin eventually lands him a spot as a premiere violinist is memorable in its own right and spells out the compa­ny’s mission in a perfectly clear way. 
Doritos (boy slapping man) 
A little boy slaps his mom’s date and counts down “One, you don’t touch my mama. Two, you don’t touch my Doritos.” The cold stare that followed was priceless. 
Doritos (snack-attack samurai) 
This was probably the most hilari­ous moment of the night. It consists of a man dressed in a Doritos-samurai outfit. It’s got the quirky weirdness of a Skittles commercial and the punch of a spicy chip. 
Volkswagen (punch buggy) 
Volkswagen’s cheery, simple punch buggy-athon capped off by Stevie Wonder getting Tracy Morgan was a nice little laugher. Add to that one of the year’s great songs in the back­ground, “Two Weeks” by Grizzly Bear. 
Bud Light (Lost spoof) 
With “Lost” coming to an end this season it seems only fitting that one of the great Super Bowl advertisers would spoof the castaway’s first moments after the crash. 
Hyundai (Brett Favre) 
An easy one, yes, but a good point nonetheless. Not to mention one that, at this rate anyway, might come true. Maybe Hyundai is right — maybe Brett Favre will win the 2020 MVP Award — but until then, let’s just stick it out for another 10 retirements. 
Bud Light (Autotune) 
Bud Light struck comedic gold numerous times throughout the night. This commercial, filled with none other than the Autotune, was a great one. Not to mention T-Pain’s cameo at the end of the commercial (What would he be without the Autotune?). 
Bud Light (house made of beer) 
A house — made entirely out of beer cans. Enough said. 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 
SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scene
Wednesday, February 10, 2010 page 11 


Out in the unexplored reaches of the Internet lie untold riches in amusing videos, amazing songs and amicable, unwitting partici­pants. A great source of these entertaining ways to put 
Matt Brown
off work is the Interweb behemoth 
Scene Writer 
YouTube. 
Now, rather than expounding at great length about the sheer variety of majes­tic moving pictures at your finger­tips, I would like to direct your attention to the “drive-through sing your order” scene. It is one lush with variety and charming personalities on both sides of the order screens and is inspiring to all those who view it. 
There is something surpassing­ly pure about being abl e to com ­muni­cate 

your most heartfelt desires to peo around world through song. Only the greatest singers throughout his­tory have been 
Christmas,” Powter in “Bad Day” and 50 Cent in “Candy Shop.” 
But only in these Internet sensations the subject is one we all can get excited about and share the desire for: food. Be it McDonalds or Taco Bell, in rap or folk song, these musical orders strike a chord in your very soul that resonates long after you have left that small Internet screen behind. The characters become friends that you shared an emo­tional journey with through trial and tribulation, misunderstanding and reordering, taking step after begrudging step towards the ulti­mate goal, fast foody satisfaction. 
Every time that I watch these videos I am struck by the desire to go out and to follow in these brave men’s footsteps. Those who came before have paved the way for we who stand on the shoulders of giants. I have begun the long and arduous process of composing a musical number worthy of the drive through speaker at Wendy’s on U.S. 30, and so too I challenge you reader. Watch these videos, take detailed notes and study the style, rhythm, rhyme and flow of these masters of the culinary musical art. 
Add this goal to your bucket list, to-do list, procrastination list, grocery list, any list your want as long as it is on there and progress is being made. Don’t let your fear of singing in public stand in your way. Take that fear and own it. Those around you are sure to be just as impressed as you were when you first heard dulcet tones streaming forth from your speak­ers, crooning out the need for a Big Mac. This is not a journey for the faint of heart but I have faith 
that you and I together can 
make a difference in one 
late night drive -through 
worker’s life. 
That being said, these 
videos are a great source 
of idle entertainment. 
They are perfect for 
that 10 minutes you 

before you really should buckle down on your homework but you can still get away with puttering around on the Intranets. It is sure to bring a smile, or at least the hint of a smile to your face even on the bit­terest of bitter cold days here in South Bend, where even polar bears would complain of nasty weather. At the very least it brings up comforting images of delicious fast food fantasies sure to make the most stone cold of palates water. So happy hunting everyone, enjoy the songs, enjoy the videos and enjoy some fast food. 
Matt Brown can be reached at mbrown14@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of the Observer. 
page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, February 10, 2010 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
No. 22 Vanderbilt upsets No. 12 Tennessee 
Aminu, McFarland lead Demon Deacons’ victory over Eagles; Illini defeat Badgers, ending Badgers’ home win streak 
Commodores’ control. that bolted Tennessee for 
Associated Press 
The Commodores needed Southern California last 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — this game, the first of five of month. Jeffery Taylor scored 16 of his six in Memorial Gym, and Taylor hadn’t scored more career-high 26 points in the they were coming off an ugly than 10 points in a game first half, and No. 22 72-58 loss at Georgia. since Jan. 23 against Auburn. Vanderbilt never trailed They beat Tennessee 85-76 He couldn’t miss against Tuesday night in routing No. in Knoxville on Jan. 27, and Tennessee as the sophomore 12 Tennessee 90-71. they never let Tennessee get was 4 of 5 from the field and 
The Commodores (18-5, 7-2) started in the Vols’ visit to perfect on all eight free grabbed sole possession of Music City as they won for the throws for his most points in second place in the third time in four games in the first half since 13 against Southeastern Conference’s this series. They improved to Missouri on Dec. 2. Eastern Division, one loss a perfect 12-0 at home this Pearl, wearing his orange behind No. 3 Kentucky. They season, 17 straight dating to a blazer for the rivalry, drew a also swept the season series Jan. 25, 2009, loss to Florida. technical foul at 12:14. It was against their instate rival for The Commodores scored the just a blip as Vanderbilt even-the first time since 2004-05 — first six points and led 44-27 tually pushed its lead to as the season before coach at halftime. They hit eight of many as 20 when Taylor hit Bruce Pearl took over their first 11 shots as two free throws to make it 30­Tennessee. Tennessee missed 14 of its 10 with 8:46 remaining. 
Tennessee (18-5, 6-3) had a first 17 and eventually led by three-game winning streak as many as 27 points twice. Wake Forest 92,Boston College 85 snapped. The Volunteers got as close Al -Farouq Aminu had 22 
Jermaine Beal scored 20 as 10 points early in the sec-points, Chas McFarland added points and A.J. Ogilvy had 11 ond half as Prince scored to 14 points and 11 rebounds for Vanderbilt, which didn’t pull them within 46-36. He and Wake Forest held off a miss reserve John Jenkins. missed the free throw and the late rally by Boston College to The freshman who had been chance to cut the lead to sin-beat the Eagles on Tuesday averaging 10.4 points was gle digits for the first time night. hospitalized with flu. since the opening minutes. L.D. Williams added 14 
J.P. Prince led Tennessee Vanderbilt responded with a points for the Demon Deacons with 19 points, Wayne Chism 20 -3 run to put the game (17 -5, 7-3 Atlantic Coast had 16, Melvin Goins 11 and away, and Festus Ezeli capped Conference). They never Scotty Hopson 10. Brian the spurt with two free throws trailed, were held without a Williams, suspended for nine with 12:38 left that gave the field goal for the final 10.5 games after a New Year’s Day Commodores their biggest minutes, but made 14 of 18 arrest, returned to the rota-lead yet at 66-39. The sellout free throws in the final 5:36 tion but didn’t enter the game crowd taunted the Vols late by to win their third straight and until 13:34 was left and the chanting “Lane Kiffin” — the fifth in six games. court. ground, but managed a pass game well in the name of the football coach Wake Forest trails both This one may have been to Bohannon for a 3 that tied 
Duke (7-2) and Maryland (6-2) better, because the Illini are it at 53 -all. But D.J. in the standings. now in prime position to chal-Richardson and McCamey 
Tyler Roche scored a lenge the Spartans for the answered with jumpers to career-high 31 points — regular-season conference push the lead to 57-53, and including 15 of BC’s first 19 — crown. The schedule isn’t Wisconsin went cold, going and Corey Raji had 17 points easy for Illinois, which plays scoreless for 5 minutes. and 10 rebounds for the four more ranked teams in its The Badgers missed nine Eagles (12 -12, 3-7). They final six games, including two consecutive shots down the played without leading scorer games with No. 13 Ohio State stretch, including a layup by Joe Trapani, who didn’t make and a rematch with the Taylor with just over 2 min-the trip because of illness, Badgers in the regular-season utes to play and 3s by Keaton and lost their third straight. finale. Nankivil, Taylor and 
BC has dropped eight of 11 It was a shock for Bohannon. in 2010 and fell to 1-4 in ACC Wisconsin (18-6, 8-4), which McCamey hit one free road games this season. got 15 points from Jason throw with 58 seconds left 
Bohannon, including 13 in and Richardson hit two more Illinois 63, Wisconsin 56 the second half, and 12 from 16 seconds later to seal it. 
Demetri McCamey scored 27 Trevon Hughes. With a winter storm making points and Mike Tisdale added The Badgers built a 22-11 life miserable in southeastern 19 on 8-of-11 shooting to lead lead while only Tisdale could Wisconsin, there were sever-Illinois to an upset over No. find the basket, hitting every al open seats throughout the 11 Wisconsin on Tuesday field goal for the Illini until Kohl Center and the top of night, snapping the Badgers’ just over 6 minutes to play in the student section was 51 -0 home record against the first half. sparse. unranked Big Ten opponents That’s when McCamey took Wisconsin went up 22-11 under coach Bo Ryan. over. on a four-point play by 
The Illini (17-8, 9-3) became McCamey, the Big Ten play-Hughes and early only the 7­the first team to beat Ryan er of the week for his per-foot-1 Tisdale hit six of his three times at the Kohl Center formances against Iowa and first seven shots. after wins in 2005 and ‘06 the Spartans, scored 15 of His teammates, meanwhile, and ended Wisconsin’s 18-Illinois’ final 20 points of the missed 10 straight shots until game home winning streak. half and the Illini hit 10 con-McCamey’s layup with just More important, Illinois won secutive shots straddling over 6 minutes left until half-its fifth straight game after a halftime to erase the double-time. 78 -73 win over then-No. 5 digit deficit. But the Illini hit eight Michigan State on Saturday With 5:16 left, Wisconsin’s straight shots to end the half, that featured fans rushing the Jordan Taylor fell to the 10 in a row and 17 out of 21. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
2 apartments available near down-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Jim: Did I ever tell you why I left town SB 129 N. St. Louis Blvd Scranton? (between Jefferson St. &amp; ——————————————— Do not go it alone. Dwight: [cries quietly]
FOR SALE FOR SALE PERSONAL 
Colfax St.) Both apartments 1000 Jim: Yeah, I didn't think I had. 
SF no deposit required $350.00 per If you or someone you care about Well, it was all about Pam. Yeah, I Four condos for sale under gradrentals.viewwork.com person per month includes utilities has been sexually assaulted, we Notre Dame has many resources in mean, she was with Roy... and I just 
——————————————— upstairs apartment 2/3 bedroom can help. For more information, visit place to assist you. couldn't take it. I mean, I lost it, $150,000. 2BR/2BA kitchen bath and livingroom Notre Dame's website: If you or someone you love needs Dwight. I couldn't sleep, I couldn't Steps to Notre Dame. Finsh Bsmnt $375.00 per month per person http.csap.nd.edu confidential support or assistance, concentrate on anything. And then 
2 Car GA includes utilities downstairs apart-———————————————-please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 weird stuff, like, food had no taste. http://realst8.com/4-condos 1 mile to campus ment 2 bedroom kitchen bath livin-CONSIDERING ADOPTION? ND or Ann Firth at 1-2685. So my solution was to move away. groom diningroom and laundry ALUMS hoping to adopt. Please For more information, visit ND's It was awful. or call $575/month room. visit our website web site: And it's something that I wouldn't 
References and lease required http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro-wish on my worst enemy. And that 574-217-4770 Cell 574-215-7785 Please call 574-274-2110 file.net. http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu includes you. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Wednesday, February 10, 2010 
page 13 
NCAA Division I Women’s Basketball Coaches Poll 
team previous 
1 Connecticut 1 2 Stanford 2 3 NOTRE DAME 3 4 Nebraska 4 5 Tennessee 5 6 Xavier 7 7 Duke 6 8 West Virginia 8 9 Ohio State 9 10 Florida State 12 11 Texas A&M 10 12 Oklahoma 13 13 Georgetown 16 14 Oklahoma State 11 15 Baylor 17 16 Kentucky 18 17 Iowa State 19 18 Georgia 14 19 Texas 23 20 North Carolina 15 21 Virginia 24 22 Vanderbilt 22 23 Gonzaga NR 24 St. John’s 25 25 Hartford NR 
NCAA Division I Women’s Basketball AP Poll 
team previous 
1 Connectiut 1 2 Stanford 2 3 Nebraska 4 4 NOTRE DAME 3 5 Tennessee 5 6 Xavier 7 7 Ohio State 8 8 Duke 6 9 West Virginia 11 10 Florida State 15 11 Baylor 15 12 Oklahoma 13 13 Texas A&M 12 14 Texas 17 15 Oklahoma State 10 16 Georgetown 18 17 Kentucky 20 18 North Carolina 9 19 Georgia 14 20 Iowa State 22 21 Georgia Tech 21 22 Gonzaga 24 23 LSU 19 24 TCU NR 25 St. John’s 25 


around the dial 
Men’s NCAA Basketball 
Connecticut at Syracuse 7 p.m., Versus 
NBA Basketball 
Magic at Bulls 8 p.m., CSN 
NFL 

Nevada casinos win $7 million on Super Bowl 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS — Nevada casinos won almost $6.9 mil­lion on this year’s Super Bowl as bettors wagered $82.7 million on the NFL title game, gambling regulators said Tuesday. 
The Nevada Gaming Control Board said the win was $179,000 more than sports books won last year, on $1.21 million more in bets. 
The underdog New Orleans Saints beat the favored Indianapolis Colts 31-17 in the Sunday game. 
Indianapolis started as a four-point favorite when the matchup was set, according to Las Vegas Sports Consultants, a firm that pro­vides betting lines to about 90 percent of the state’s 182 sports books. The Colts were a 4½-point favorite in the Glantz-Culver line, with the over-under at 55½ points. 
Jay Kornegay, executive director of the race and sports book at the Las Vegas Hilton, said results were hurt by bad weather in the north­eastern United States, which prevented some gamblers from making planned trips to bet on the game in Sin City. But he said the bets taken on the game were indicative of today’s struggles for casinos in Las Vegas. 
“We thought the Super Bowl was a great measuring stick of the economy and we think the economy is just a little better than what it was last year,” Kornegay said. 
Kornegay said his sports book accepted 14 percent more wagers than it did last year, but average bets were lower. 
Nevada’s biggest Super Bowl win in the last 10 years was in 2005, when the New England Patriots topped the Philadelphia Eagles and casi­nos won $15.4 million. Bettors wagered the most in 2006, when $94.5 million was bet on the Pittsburgh Steelers victory over the Seattle Seahawks. 
Nevada casinos lost almost $2.6 million in 2008, when the New York Giants beat the favored Patriots. 
Kornegay said the Hilton lost money on the game in part because it lost money on normally lucrative proposi­tion wagers. Casinos usually profit by offering long odds on unusual circumstances players like to bet on — a successful 2-point conversion, for example. 
Saints quarterback Drew Brees threw a 2-point con­version pass to Lance Moore in the fourth quarter that was initially called incomplete, but was overturned by referees following a Saints challenge. 
Other unsuccessful proposi­tion bets for the Hilton includ­ed an interception returned for a touchdown, which bet­tors won when the Saints’ Tracy Porter intercepted a pass from Colts quarterback Peyton Manning and returned it 74 yards for a touchdown to clinch the game. 
IN BRIEF 
Astros’ Lyon undergoes minor shoulder surgery 
HOUSTON — Astros reliever Brandon Lyon had surgery to drain a small cyst in his pitching shoulder but is expected to be ready for spring training. 
The team said in a statement Tuesday that Lyon had the cyst drained two weeks ago and has been throwing without discomfort since. The right-hander is expected to begin workouts with his new club Feb. 20, when pitchers and catchers report for spring training in Kissimmee, Fla. He might be about 10 days behind in his throwing program, the Astros said. 
Houston signed Lyon as a free agent in December to a $15 million, three-year contract. 
“Brandon was experiencing some weakness and discomfort in his shoulder, and we brought him in a couple of weeks ago to be seen,” gen­eral manager Ed Wade said. 
Six NHL teams will open 2010-11 season in Europe 
NEW YORK — The NHL is sending more teams across the pond. The league and its players’ associa­tion announced Tuesday that six clubs will open the 2010-11 season in Europe, the fourth straight year the NHL will begin play overseas. 
The Boston Bruins, Carolina Hurricanes, Columbus Blue Jackets, Minnesota Wild, Phoenix Coyotes and San Jose Sharks will combine to play a total of six games in Europe at the start of next season. 
The Hurricanes and Wild will meet in a pair of games in Helsinki on Oct. 7-8; Columbus plays San Jose in Stockholm on Oct. 8-9; and the Bruins and Coyotes face off in Prague on Oct. 9-10. 
“We are extremely pleased that six teams — more than ever — will open their season in Europe,” NHL com­missioner Gary Bettman said in a statement. 
Kobe not sure if he will play in NBA All Star Game 
LOS ANGELES — Kobe Bryant isn’t sure if he’ll play in this weekend’s NBA All-Star game in Dallas because of his sore left ankle. Bryant missed his second consecutive game Monday night against San Antonio, which lost to the Los Angeles Lakers 101-89. 
“If I’m not able to play, I won’t play. But I’m healthy, I will,” he said. Bryant said he can’t push off on his left foot. 
“I can’t move to play. Can’t go,” he said, adding he would be a game-time decision Wednesday at Utah. “If I’m ready to go, I’ll play.” 
Lakers trainer Gary Vitti would like Bryant to rest through All-Star week­end, capped by Sunday’s game. Bryant said he couldn’t commit either way. 
“I don’t know what it’s going to look like on Sunday. I’m not clairvoyant,” he said, laughing. 
page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, Februray 10, 2010 
NFL 
Peppers considers fresh start 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. — Julius Peppers no longer wants a long­term contract with Carolina, saying the Panthers have ignored him this offseason. 
In an interview aired Tuesday morning on Charlotte radio station WFNZ-AM, the five-time Pro Bowl defensive end indicated he’s irritat­ed by the team’s “silence” and has changed his stance on whether he wants to continue his career in Carolina. 
“Last year, at the time, that was the option that I wanted most,” Peppers said. “Now it’s not.” 
While agent Carl Carey said last week he believes the Panthers aren’t interested in retaining Peppers, Carolina’s career sacks leader, team officials haven’t announced their plans for the impending free agent. General manager Marty Hurney didn’t immediately return a phone mes­sage Tuesday. 
“How can you say you want to be somewhere when you’re not really sure if they want you there because they’re not even talking to you?” Peppers said. 
It’s another twist in a long-run­ning saga between the two sides. 
After being held to a career-low 2½ sacks in 2007, the Panthers still offered to make Peppers the NFL’s highest-paid defensive player. Peppers on Tuesday provided con­flicting reasons on why he rejected the contract. 
“That deal was to make me the highest-paid defensive player, but slightly, very slightly,” Peppers said. “I didn’t really feel the sincerity behind that deal.” 
But later in the rambling answer during the radio phone interview, Peppers also indicated he wasn’t worthy of such a deal. 
“I had 2½ sacks that season and they’re coming to offer me being the highest-paid defensive player. Like, I can’t even accept that,” Peppers said. “I’m not deserving of that.” 
Peppers bounced back with a career-high 14½ sacks in 2008, then announced he wanted to play elsewhere and pleaded with the Panthers to let him leave in free agency. He said Tuesday he wanted out because he was upset with the team’s direction under then-defen­sive coordinator Mike Trgovac. 
“In my eyes I didn’t see us getting any better on that side of the ball,” Peppers said. “I felt like it was time to try somewhere else, do some­thing else. But things changed. They brought in new people.” 
Trgovac and defensive line coach Sal Sunseri left. Ron Meeks took over the defense and Brian Baker replaced Sunseri. At the same time, the Panthers placed the restrictive franchise tag on Peppers, limiting his options in free agency. 
“I never felt that they did that with the intent to keep me here,” Peppers said. “I felt like they did that in attempt to send me off somewhere else to get compensa­tion, draft picks or whatever.” 
There was no deal and Peppers eventually changed his tune, begin­ning negotiations on a long-term contract. But a deal couldn’t be reached and Peppers played under the one-year tender worth an NFL-high $16.7 million. After recording 
10.5 sacks, Peppers made the Pro Bowl and earned a $1.5 million bonus. 
NHL 
Funeral mass held for Burke’s son 
“I had a million good reasons to love and admire Brendan,” Brian Burke said in the story. “This news didn’t alter any of them.” 
Brendan, 21, was in the second semester of his senior year at Miami University in Ohio, where he was student manager of the hockey team. He died Friday when his car slid sideways into the path of another vehicle. His friend, Mark Reedy, 18, of Bloomfield Hills, Mich., also died in the accident. 
Many mourners stood for the Mass inside the packed St. John The Evangelist Church. Among those who attended were staff and players from Miami, wearing their red jerseys with white letters and numbers, and staff and players from the Maple Leafs. Also there were NHL commissioner Gary Bettman, Boston Bruins gener­al manager Peter Chiarelli, New Jersey Devils president and general manager Lou Lamoriello, Edmonton Oilers coach Pat Quinn and Boston Red Sox general manager Theo Epstein. 
that he could bring that good out from inside of people and into the world by being open, caring and kind to everyone he met.” 
Brendan Burke played goalie at Xaverian Brothers High School in nearby Westwood but decided not to play as a senior because the locker room atmosphere was becoming harder to deal with, according to an article on ESPN.com in December. 
That article related how he told his father on Dec. 30, 2007, that he was gay. 

Associated Press 
CANTON, Mass. — Brendan Burke, the son of Toronto Maple Leafs general manager Brian Burke and an advocate for gay rights, was remembered Tuesday for his compassion and courage four days after his death in a car crash on a snowy Indiana road. 
“From birth, he had an unshak­able faith in the genuine good that resides in all people,” his brother Patrick said at a funeral Mass. “Along with that faith is hope, hope 
Wednesday, February 10, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
NHL 
Noel gets used to new interim coaching position 

‘free the mind’ and all the other phrases he’s grown fond of using,” general manager Scott Howson said on the day he pro­moted Noel. “I just knew that he was a good coach who has had tremendous success at the AHL level. It was more his track record and the people I know who knew him well along the way.” 
At the end of the season, Howson will evaluate Noel’s per­formance and will consider whether to knock the “interim” off his job title. If the Blue Jackets keep playing the way they have the last two games, winning by a combined 6-1 over Dallas and Buffalo, Noel will make Howson’s decision a diffi­cult one. 
Noel grew up in a small Ontario town, the son of a miner and a housewife who raised Claude, a brother and two sis­ters. He still gets emotional when he thinks back to the day in 1981 when he was playing for the AHL Hershey Bears and his then-coach Bryan Murray (now GM of the Ottawa Senators) broke the news that Noel’s father had died. 
“The flight home was gut-wrenching,” Noel said, his voice cracking almost three decades later. 
As a player, he toiled for remote outposts before finally getting a taste of the NHL, play­ing seven games with the Washington Capitals in 1980. He never made it back, spending most of the next 10 years plying his trade before eventually start­ing as a coach on the bottom rungs of the pro ladder. 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio — Since becoming the interim head coach of the Columbus Blue Jackets a week ago, Claude Noel has received over 1,000 calls, texts and e-mails offering con­gratulations. 
Some are from folks back home in Kirkland Lake, Ontario, or from players and coaches dat­ing back to his long career beat­ing the bushes of the AHL, ECHL and practically every other HL. 
Others? He’s not so sure. 
“You know what’s wild? People send me texts with the number but no name — and I don’t know who it is!” Noel said, laughing at himself. “There might be 20 per­cent that are just numbers.” 
It’s a vintage Claude (rhymes with “ode”) moment. As an assis­tant under Ken Hitchcock, who was fired after the Blue Jackets got off to a miserable 22-27-9 start this season, the players really liked Noel. He joked with them, acted up, played around and also worked hard with them. 

He has his own way of saying things. He refers to players as “stallions.” He is constantly talk­ing about letting go and “freeing the mind.” Offensive players aren’t forwards, wings or cen­ters, they’re “shooters.” 
But in the Noel dictionary, the most important word is among the shortest. 
“That’s his big word — joy. He’s been saying it all year long,” goalie Steve Mason said. 
Now he’s saying it as the head man, at least for the remaining 22 games this season. He’s off to a 2-0 start heading into Wednesday night’s game against San Jose, the top team in the Western Conference. 
“He’s kind of serious with us,” captain Rick Nash said. “When he was an assistant coach he was a bit more fun. Now he’s more serious, and he has to be. In here, he’s all business.” 
Noel, 54, said he hasn’t changed personalities. Perhaps his new position means he’s not the players’ best buddy any­more, but that doesn’t mean he’s not the same person. 
“I can still be that way, but not to the level they saw me as an assistant,” he said, sipping a bot­tle of water in his office after Tuesday’s workout. “They’ll see that again. They might not see that level again in this hockey arena. Maybe at the end of the season.” 
His boss didn’t hire him because he was popular with the players. Noel, a veteran coach in the minors, also knows what he’s doing behind the bench and in the dressing room. 
“I didn’t know about ‘joy’ and 

WNBA 
Nolan, Smith will stay with Shock after move 
now, she’s saying that she’s 
Associated Press 
not playing this year.” 
TULSA, Okla. — One of the Nolan, a Michigan native, last things the Detroit Shock has played her entire eight-did before they moved to year career in Detroit, win-Oklahoma was announce that ning three WNBA champi ­All-Stars Deanna Nolan and onships and being selected as Katie Smith had agreed to an All-Star four times. contract extensions. Her agent, Mike Cound, said 
Now that the WNBA fran-it was “more or less correct” chise has moved to Tulsa, the that Nolan’s agreement in team’s two top scorers may September to extend her con-not be coming along, after tract was contingent on the all. franchise remaining in 
Coach and general manager Detroit. Instead, an Nolan Richardson says Nolan Oklahoma-based ownership has indicated she intends to group bought the team in skip the upcoming season to October and moved it to rest instead of relocating with Tulsa. the team. Her agent says “Basically, Deanna is under she’s not under contract and no contractual obligation to “considering all alternatives.” compete for Tulsa or any 
Smith, a six-time All-Star, other WNBA team at this has already said she doesn’t time, nor is she under any plan to play in Tulsa and is obligation to comment on the listed as a free agent by the topic,” Cound wrote in an e-league. The season begins in mail. “She is considering all May. alternatives and Tulsa and 
Team officials said they’re Coach Richardson will be the uncertain what happened first to know anything she with the contract extensions decides.” but they’re holding out hope Nolan, who ranked eighth Nolan will join the Shock. in the league last season by 
“We’re hoping that she will averaging 16.9 points per play, but she may decide — game, was designated one of according to her agent — she the Shock’s two core players may decide to take off this — meaning she would be year because she’s tired,” guaranteed a maximum, one-Richardson said. “As of right year contract. 
page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, February 10, 2010 
NHL 
Devils struggle in week before Olympics 

Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. — Jacques Lemaire didn’t want to describe his 20-minute, on-ice discussion with the New Jersey Devils as a pep talk. 
It was just a coach stating the obvious at practice on Wednesday to a team that has lost four of its last five games and 10 of 14. 
There was no shouting. No wild arm gestures. Maybe a couple of taps on the ice with his stick. 
“Most of it was about win­ning battles, competing for pucks, being harder on pucks, working on the power play,” forward Zach Parise said. “Just things when you are going on stretches like this, what’s causing it. There are just areas of our games to sharpen up.” 
If you’ve watched the Devils in the past week or so, there are inexplicable peri­ods where the team makes a couple of costly mistakes. 
In a 3-2 loss to the Flyers in Philadelphia on Monday night, the Devils squandered a 2-0 lead in the final two minutes of the second period. 
Against the Rangers in New York on Saturday night, New Jersey gave up three goals in a three-minute span in the second period in a 3-1 loss. 
The string of four losses in five games started with the Kings scoring twice in the final 1:46 in a 3-2 win a little more than a week ago. 
“It’s just like being brain dead for a little bit, and we are paying the price for it,” goaltender Martin Brodeur said. 
With three games left before the Olympic break, the Devils have seen their lead in the Atlantic Division dwindle to two points over the Pittsburgh Penguins, who have played one more game than New Jersey. 
The Devils have led the division since Dec. 18. 
“We are looking for wins, definitely,’ Lemaire said. “It’s obvious that we’re not play­ing our best hockey. We are not consistent. We’re having very good periods, and aver­age periods, and we just have to be more consistent.” 
Lemaire spent a lot of time on Wednesday having his team work on the power play. New Jersey was 1 of 7 with the extra man on Monday night and they will be facing the Flyers again on Wednesday at the Prudential Center. 
Patrik Elias, who returned to the Devils lineup two games ago after sitting out 10 games with a concussion, said no one was panicking. He felt the team had plenty of chances to score on Monday and just didn’t find the net. 
“We talked about it,” Elias said. “We have to tighten up in certain areas and be a lit­tle more desperate out there. When you go through a stretch like this, he (Lemaire) wants to make sure we go back to basics and tweak a couple of things. Sometimes when you go through a stretch like this, you try to do a little too much and you get out of position.” 
The one thing that has changed in the recent run is the Devils have lost a little confidence. When bad things happen, their play gets ten­tative and opponents have taken advantage. 
“We’re a good group of players and we know we can get out of this,” defenseman Andy Greene said. “Everyone goes through these ups and downs during the year and maybe ours is a little longer now. We just have to be pre­pared.” 
Devils captain Jamie Langenbrunner felt Lemaire’s approach was pos­itive. 
“When you’re involved in it, sometimes you lose sight of it a little bit,” Langenbrunner said. “You’re so wrapped up in it. You’re trying to work your way out of it. You’re maybe some­times trying to do too much. That definitely can be a little bit of the case right now.” 
The Devils will be without defenseman Anssi Salmela for Wednesday’s game. He suffered an apparent concus­sion when hit in the second period by Flyers forward Jeff Carter a split second after scoring a goal to put New Jersey ahead 2-0. 
Salmela did not practice Tuesday and Lemaire said there was no way he would play Wednesday. 
Lemaire didn’t get the feel­ing that Carter was trying to hurt Salmela. 
“The league looks at every incident and if there’s any­thing they’ll take care of,” Lemaire said. 
NBA 
Bobcats end Wizards’ streak 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. — Raymond Felton hit a fade-away 12-footer with 1.9 sec­onds left and the Charlotte Bobcats beat the Washington Wizards 94-92 on Tuesday night to snap a three-game losing streak. 
After Antawn Jamison missed a scoop shot in the lane, the Bobcats got the rebound and didn ’t call a timeout. Charlotte ’s play broke down, and Felton drove to the left of the lane and let go a shot over Randy Foye’s 
outstretched arms that swished through. 
Jamison missed another scoop shot in the paint at the buzzer for the Wizards, end­ing their unexpected and bizarre weeklong trip — even if they were likely to be stranded in Charlotte overnight because of another mid-Atlantic snowstorm. 
Stephen Jackson scored 22 points for Charlotte. 
Caron Butler had 23 for the Wizards, who rallied from a seven-point deficit early in the fourth quarter to nearly beat another Eastern Conference playoff contender on the road. 
The Wizards surprised the Magic in Orlando on Friday, then were scheduled to fly to Washington after the game and face Atlanta on Saturday. 
They never got there because of the first winter storm and the Hawks game was postponed. Washington ended up staying in Orlando for three more days until fly­ing to Charlotte on Monday. 
Butler was the hero in the comeback win at Orlando, and he got hot early in the fourth quarter to erase Charlotte’s 81-74 lead. Butler hit two jumpers, a 3-pointer and a mid-range jumper as the Wizards took an 85-83 lead with 5:11 left. 
After Jackson was called for traveling, Mike Miller hit a 3­pointer at the other end with 47 seconds left to put Washington ahead 92-91. 
Flip Murray’s crossover dribble got him to the hoop and he was fouled. But he hit only 1 of 2 free throws with 33 seconds left. 
Despite playing on a tender ankle that knocked him out of practice Monday and forced him to sit out Tuesday’s shootaround, Felton came through for Charlotte as it again reached .500. 
All -Star Gerald Wallace added 17 points and 13 rebounds, Murray and Boris Diaw added 16 points apiece and Felton scored 11 for the Bobcats in Tyson Chandler’s return after missing 22 games with a foot injury. 
Chandler didn’t start, but was effective in a 7-minute stretch in the first half. He had an alley-oop dunk, hit 3 of 4 free throws and had five points and four rebounds, but Charlotte trailed 37-32 when he went back to the bench. 
The Bobcats rallied to take a 50 -49 halftime lead on Diaw’s 3-pointer with 2 sec­onds left. 
Chandler didn’t play in the third quarter, when Charlotte built a 73-66 lead before the Wizards scored the final four points. 
He started the fourth and was replaced after 3 minutes as the Wizards rally came up short. 
Team officials were told the latest storm would likely mean they wouldn’t be able to get back to Washington late Tuesday night. But since this was the Wizards’ final game before the All -Star break, several players were sched­uled to stay in Charlotte and then fly to their homes or vacation spots on Wednesday. 
Mike Miller had 19 points, Jamison 16 and Andray Blatche 15 for Washington, which fell to 0-2 against the Bobcats this season. 


Wednesday, February 10, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
and will always try to help 
or UConn in what will likely coach Pat Summitt have you out in anyway they can.” 
be portrayed as a stunning become national icons, but 
IrishCiobanu 
upset. what do they have over on the tennis court are just as 
Ciobanu’s accomplishments continued from page 20 Unlike the men’s game, my McGraw? More wins, more 
continued from page 20 
impressive. A three -year 
problem is the absolute lack WNBA products, and more ble major in anthropology starter, she holds an overall 
Championship in 1982, of parity in women’s basket-attention, yes, but more tal­and science pre-professional record of 186-57 in matches. 
Tennessee and Connecticut ball. ent as a coach? I doubt it. studies, she ’s managed to In her career, she has been 
have appeared in 19 of the 28 Men’s basketball still has its A South Bend native, fresh-post a 3.86 career grade -ranked as high No. 31 in sin-
championships played. traditional powerhouses in man guard Skylar Diggins is point average. In addition, gles and No. 39 in doubles. 
Tennessee is 8-5 all-time in UCLA, Kentucky, North having a sensational year for Ciobanu is a member of the Last year, she helped the Irish 
the title game, while Carolina, Duke and others, any player, let alone a fresh-Notre Dame ’s Academic to their first ever NCAA 
Connecticut is a perfect 6-0. but only North Carolina has man. But the national recog-Honors Program and has Semifinal appearance, the 
This year Tennessee’s won more than three champi-nition she would be getting if been named an ITA Scholar best performance in program 
record of 21-2 has the Lady onships in the past 30 years. she played for Auriemma or Athlete and Big East history. 
Volunteers ranked fifth, while March Madness is exciting Summitt, the recognition Academic All-Star for the past This year, Ciobanu is trying 
the Huskies’ perfect mark of because of the inevitable Maya Moore and Candace three years. to slow everything down and 
23-0 and the pursuit of their upset, the Cinderella story, Parker benefitted from, is “When it comes down to it, truly appreciate her last sea-
own consecutive-wins record not the dominance of one or nowhere to be seen. the one thing that really got son. 
makes them the undisputed two teams every year. Maybe the Irish are the real me through rough patches “It’s nice to know that the 
No. 1 team in the country. No one is denying that benefactors of the system. and helped me be successful late nights of studying and 
If you do the math, there is men’s basketball is a com-Maybe Notre Dame sneaks has been the support I’ve got-the tiring practices and work-
a 70 percent chance that one pletely different animal than under the radar as a No. 3 ten from my friends, my outs have paid off, and it’s 
of the two programs appears women’s. It has more viewer-seed, pressure-free, all the teammates, my coaches, and even nicer to be able to look 
in the national championship ship, more fans and most way to a defining game my advisors,” Ciobanu said. back on it and realize that it 
game (19 divided by 28, carry importantly, more coverage. against Connecticut or “It has been comforting to was all worth it,” Ciobanu 
the 8, round up, anyway). But why do the media have to Tennessee, and wins. But have teammates and friends said. “But also bittersweet. 
The real chance Tennessee or portray two teams as defining does anyone outside of Notre who have been there for me Knowing how fast in-season 
Connecticut makes it to the the entire women’s game Dame notice? to support and encourage me goes by, I’ve just been trying 
national championship? One instead of six, seven or eight? I believe this team can win when things got hectic.” to appreciate every single 
hundred percent. If you’ve Connecticut and Tennessee a national championship. I Ciobanu specifically pointed moment — all the great 
taken fundamentals of arith-have the most championships want it to be our fourth, or to her coaches as amazing times, the laughs, the hard­
metic and you don’t believe and they deserve all the fifth, or sixth title, but I’ll sources of encouragement fought matches, the ups and 
me, turn on ESPNU and respect and attention that take it. Rome wasn’t built in and enablers to help her downs — really, just all of it. 
watch just one of their comes with that accomplish-a single day, but another achieve her academic goals. “For me, being a leader so 
games. ment. Notre Dame football Irish title is another step to “I am so blessed to have far this year has been more 
Senior guards Ashley enjoys being a product of that eliminating the disparity in a played for such amazing about having no regrets — 
Barlow, Lindsay Schrader system, and rightly so. But sport that deserves better. coaches, who are not only holding on tight to each other 
and Melissa Lechlitner could-when two programs absolute-great coaches but also great and taking advantage of every 
n’t care less about the num-ly dominate the coverage of The views expressed in this people,” she said. “Both [Irish opportunity .we have this 
bers I just rolled off. Winning their sport because of their column are those of the coach] Jay [Louderback] and semester. I feel really blessed 
is winning, and if they have a success year in and year out, author and not necessarily [assistant coach] Julia to be able to appreciate 
shot of making it to title something’s got to give. those of The Observer. [Scaringe] have always been something so incredible as it’s 
game, they know they will Huskies coach Geno Contact Chris Masoud at incredibly understanding happening, and to know that 
have to knock off Tennessee Auriemma and Lady Vols cmasoud@nd.edu when I needed to miss prac-every moment spent with my tice to make up a lab, to study teammates of these last few for a final, or to go on med months I have left at Notre school interviews. It’s truly Dame is incredibly precious.” refreshing to play for a school that cares about your devel-Contact John Helms at opment as a whole person, jhelms2@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, February 10, 2010 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Wade makes impact with passing, defense 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
Despite only being in her junior year, Liz Wade has left her mark on the Saint Mary’s program both on and off the court. 
Throughout this season, Wade has been a terrific team leader for the Belles, playing tough on offense and defense every game. 
“She sees the game very well at both ends of the court,” Belles coach Jennifer Henley said. 
One of Wade’s specialties is turning defense into points. She enters Thursday night’s game third on the Belles’ all-time steals list with 214 in her career. She needs 60 more to tie the record and for her, that may not be too much trouble. 
Wade ended last season with 86 steals, quite a feat for the sophomore player. Not only does the ability to create turnovers pose a defensive threat, but the Belles’ offense then has many more opportunities to score. 
Wade not only gives the Belles more opportunities on offense with her steals, she also sets up her teammates to score. Wade has recorded 82 assists on the year. 
Wade does not put forth all of her efforts on the defensive end alone. She also provides leader­ship on offense by setting up the offense as the team’s general on the floor. 
“Liz Wade is a very talented point guard,” Henley said. 
Not only are her skills on the court noticed by her teammates, her leadership ability has been noted as well. Wade leads by example on the court and through this she allows other players to mimic her tough play­ing style. 
“She was voted as one of the captains this season as a junior which speaks volumes as to how her teammates respect her,” Henley said. 
The impact that Wade left on the team from last season res­onated into this season as her teammates selected her as a cap­tain. Last season was a remark­able one for Wade, as she became the youngest player to earn the Defensive Player of the Year award in the MIAA confer­ence. 
Even through this season Wade has not let up the intensity that she played with last season. She continues to lead the Belles and contributes greatly to the team’s success. 
Contact Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 

NBA 
LeBron leads Cavs to 12th straight victory 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND — LeBron James scored 32 points to lead the Cleveland Cavaliers to their 12th straight win Tuesday night, a 104-97 victory over the New Jersey Nets. 
The win gives Cleveland the longest winning streak in the NBA this season. The Cavaliers (42-11) also have the best record in the league. 
New Jersey (4-47) has the NBA’s worst record and has lost seven straight. The Nets played without point guard Devin Harris, who has a sprained left shoulder. Courtney Lee led the Nets with 24 points. 
James, who was named the Eastern Conference’s player of the week for the fifth time this season Monday, was 13-of-21 from the field with 11 assists and three rebounds. 
Jawad Willams scored a career-high 17 points while Anderson Varejao added 15 for Cleveland. 
The Nets built an eight-point lead in the first quarter thanks primarily to 11 points by Jarvis Hayes, who hit three 3-pointers. Cleveland scored the last seven points of the quarter and went ahead for good early in the sec­ond period. 
The Cavaliers’ spurt was capped when with a highlight reel play at both ends of the court. It began when Shaquille O’Neal blocked Brook Lopez’s shot at the basket. The 7-foot-1, 325-pound center grabbed the ball and dribbled up the floor before finding James on the wing. James made a perfect alley-oop pass to Varejao, who finished the play with a dunk, bringing the crowd to its feet. O’Neal then gave Varejao a resounding chest bump and the Nets called timeout. 
James converted his own dunk off a lob pass from Daniel Gibson moments later. 
Bearcats 
continued from page 20 
said. “Today was exception­al, it was a career high.” 
The game got off to a fast start for Notre Dame (22-1; 9­1 Big East), as after Cincinnati (10-12; 3-7 Big East) scored the first two points of the game, the Irish never trailed the rest of the way. 
The Irish used an 11-0 run in the first half to extend their lead out to 30-16 with a minute to go in the first half. 
The second half score stood at 32-18, but McGraw was not pleased overall with the first half effort, as she did not believe the offense played up to its potential. 
“Offensively we did not shoot the ball all that well,” McGraw said. 
Notre Dame extended the lead out as far as 20 points to start the second half, but that was when the Bearcats began to make their comeback bid. Utilizing an 11-2 run midway through the second half, Cincinnati was able to reduce the lead to 44-35 with 9:30 left to go in the game. 
That deficit was as close as the Bearcats would get, as junior guard Lindsay Schrader decided to turn it on. 
Schrader was dominant on the low post throughout the second half, finishing with a team-high 16 points to go along with three steals and four rebounds. Also playing well offensively for the Irish was junior forward Becca Bruszewski, who managed 14 points and 8 rebounds. 
Notre Dame quashed the comeback attempt from Cincinnati with a renewed defensive intensity and cruised to the final whistle keeping the Bearcats at a safe distance. 
“We played all man-to-man and we got up to pressure the ball,” McGraw said. “In the backcourt we really got up and pressured the ball and I was really pleased with that.” 
The Irish won the rebound­ing battle 35-32, but McGraw would have liked to see the first half rebounding perform­ance extend across the entire game. 
“We outrebounded them sig­nificantly in the first half, and then in the second half both teams shot the ball really well, so they had an edge in the second half,” McGraw said. “I was not particularly pleased with the rebounding in the second half.” 
The win moved the Irish up to second place in the Big East standings, placing them ahead of No. 9 West Virginia (21-3; 8-2 Big East) and No. 16 Georgetown (19-3; 8-1 Big East). The Irish still trail undefeated No. 1 Connecticut in the standings (23-0; 10-0 Big East). 
Notre Dame will next take the court against DePaul (16­8; 5-5 Big East) in this year’s Pink Zone Game to benefit research into breast cancer. Tip-off will be at 3 p.m. on Sunday. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  
27  28  29  30  31  32  
33  34  35  36  
37  38  39  40  41  42  
43  44  45  46  
47  48  49  50  
51  52  53  54  
55  56  57  58  59  60  
61  62  63  64  65  
66  67  68  
69  70  71  

Wednesday, February 10, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
Across 38 Like King 1 Add a new Solomon … or 
article to, maybe an oral hint to 6 Sweat units 17- and 62­11 Prime meridian Across and 11­
std. and 29-Down 14 Zellweger of 40 “___, verily” 
“Leatherheads” 
43 Nonchalant 
15 Not yet reached 
45 Adjusts to one's 
16 Evergreen tree 
situation
17 Race energetically 47 Games involving past? picks19 What an athlete 50 Sch. groups may turn 
51 River to the 
20 It sometimes 
Mediterranean
depicts a dragonor tiger 52 Dust collector 
21 Rides 55 Stonewall, say 23 Keys on the side 58 Popular of a keyboard 
sandwich bag 
26 Last word of a 
61 Smoke detector 
January 1 song 
batteries, often 
27 Mozart's “___Fan Tutte” 62 Native African's 30 Yellow one musical beat? 33 Todd who 66 “I said … out!” directed “I'm Not 67 Banana-loving There,” 2007 zoo critter 
36 More bohemian 68 “With this ring 37 East ender? ___ wed” 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 
SCOFF TBAR 
SLOW AUD IO RI TA 
KEP I STOREDETECT I VES HERE AVE 
I OD I NE DRNO 
SEE SNAREDRUMS 
DUMA WARI LY BUT 
AS IN EVI LS FOG 
BR I NK DEAL PEA 
CLENCH ELLS 
OUTEREDGES RED 
LODE AFLOAT PIC 
V I SA TEACHERED I T I ONS ITCH SORE 
ALLAH TEES STUD 
OSAGE 
69 What everyinning has threeof? 
70 Native of India in the British army 71 They might getshingles 
Down 
1 Thin bark? 2 Soften 3 Grammy winner
for “Amarantine” 4 Occupies, as bushes or trees 5 Sonar's 
measurement 6 Bribe 7 Photo blowup:
Abbr. 8 SingerWinehouse 9 Red ink 10 Eyelid annoyance 11 Where an old wanderer is 
interred? 12 Sister of Venus 13 Like some short 
tennis matches 18 Louis XIV, e.g. 22 “… so long ___ 
both shall live?” 24 Fishing boat 25 Garment in 
Gujarat 27 2008 title role for 
Benicio Del Toro 28 Trireme propeller 29 What Romeo 
and Juliet had to do? 31 “___ date!” 32 Went kaput34 Luxury 
WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Puzzle by Julian Lim  
35 Arc on a music  48 Secure  57 Rochester's love  
score 39 Made, as a  49 Alignment ofcelestial bodies  59 Roman emperorafter Galba  
wager 41 Sorority letter 42 Blockhead 44 Tiny bit 46 Try for a job at  53 Former spacestation 54 Biblical land with “ivory and apesand peacocks”  60 Contestant on a Bravo realityshow 63 Breach 64 6 on a phone  
47 “Gil Blas” novelist  56 Debuts on Wall St.  65 Enero, porejemplo  

For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 


 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 
Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer
Sports
Wednesday, February 10, 2010 page 20 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
No road worries 
Stifing defense leads 

Irish have chance to Notre Dame past Cincy take out powerhouses 
Sitting at 21-1 and an 8-1
By JARED JEDICK 
record in the Big East,
Sports Writer 
Muffet McGraw’s squad has the campus talking aboutThe No. 4 Irish picked up the women’sdefensive intensity, causing 23 basketballturnovers against Cincinnati again. AsTuesday to earn a 66-50 win expected,for their 22nd victory this year the com-and their seventh in a row. 
parisons“Overall, defensively, I was have beenreally pleased. We caused 23 drawn toturnovers and we held them to the 200150 points,” Irish coach Muffet nationalMcGraw said. 
title team 
Chris Masoud
Notre Dame got a welcome andcontribution from junior guard whetherBrittany Mallory, who snagged No. 3 Notreeight rebounds in the first half 
Sports Writer
Dame canfor a career high. Mallory also deliver thechipped in for two points, two program’s second NCAAsteals and three assists with-title.
out any turnovers. 
But consider this. Since“She is playing great the establishment of thedefense, and she is always TOM LA/The Observer Women’s NCAA Division Ilooking to rebound,” McGraw 
Senior guard Melissa Lechlitner handles the ball during an 86-76 victory over Pittsburgh on Feb. 6. see BEARCATS/page 18 Lechlitner had six points in Notre Dame’s 66-50 win at Cincinnati Tuesday. see IRISH/page 17 

FENCING 
Team prepares for regionals after perfect regular season 
“Right now the team’s fenc-described by Irish coach “I think the upperclassmen Northwestern, will be out for
By KEVIN BALDWIN 
ing really well — everyone’s Janusz Bednarski as “one of are doing a good job of shap-redemption after the swift
Sports Writer 
confident, everyone’s been the best in the history of the ing the freshmen, we’ve got a defeats the Irish doled out last 
training really hard at prac-program” also feature the very young team, the upper-weekend. 
Irish fencers may well be on tice and it’s really good to strongest rosters in recent classmen have shown some of “Expectations are good but their way for a return to start seeing things pay off,” memory, touting numerous the freshmen the ropes and how it will happen, you never nationals as they get ready to junior foilist Zach Schirtz said. All-Americans in addition to the freshmen have really know its always a mystery host the Midwest conference “We’ve got the conference two members of the U.S. taken on to that and come out how you will fence in the most championship on March 6. tournament coming up and National team. and do really well,” Schirtz in the most important compe-Both the men’s and women’s the NCAA and I think we’ll be Surrounded by that level of said. tition especially when you teams just turned in an unde-a strong team in both of those talent, it is little wonder that With only three weeks until have such young kids like we feated performance at the tournaments.” many members of the team’s the start of the postseason, the have,” Bednarski said. Notre Dame Duals this past Standing at 33-0 and 35-0, large freshman class have Irish are certain to see some weekend, concluding their respectively, the men’s and risen quickly into nationally heated competition as many Contact Kevin Baldwin at perfect regular season. women’s fencing teams, recognized competitors. teams, including No. 5 kbaldwi2@nd.edu 
FOOTBALL 
Kelly moves walk-on tryouts to fall semester 
Observer Staff Report 
Irish coach Brian Kelly will not do away with Notre Dame’s long­standing walk-on tradition, but he will change the timetable dur­ing which new players try out for the team, Director of Football Media Relations Brian Hardin said Tuesday. 
“The walk-on program will not discontinue under coach Kelly, we’re simply moving the tryouts from spring until fall. That’s when coach Kelly has always had walk-on tryouts,” Hardin said. “The primary reason is so that our coaches can spend as much time evaluating the cur­rent roster as it stands right now.” 
Hardin said 25 walk-on players are currently working out with the team, and their status will not be affected by the change. 
An understanding of the walk-on tradition at Notre Dame and experience with walk-ons at pre­vious coaching stops both point to Kelly continuing to accept walk-ons in the future, Hardin said. 
“He understands the tremen­dous value that walk-ons have to our program, and he fully embraces and understands the history walk-ons have had, and will continue to have, at Notre Dame,” Hardin said. “Everywhere coach Kelly has been, he’s had walk-ons who have helped him win champi­onships.” 
Notre Dame will begin its spring practice schedule on March 26. Per NCAA rules, the Irish will hold 15 practices and conclude the spring with the annual Blue-Gold Game, sched­uled for April 24. 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Ciobanu impresses on and off court 
By JOHN HELMS 
Sports Writer 
Senior Cosmina Ciobanu has had an unbelievable career at Notre Dame while showcasing an unbe­lievable work ethic. She’s been pretty good at tennis, too. 
Ciobanu was awarded the Big East Scholar Athlete award this weekend, an honor going to a male and female athlete from each Big East school. The award, given only to those with “outstanding academ­ic achievement and excep­tional athletic perform ­ance” comes with a $2,000 scholarship towards gradu­ate studies. 
Ciobanu’s achievements in the classroom are cer­tainly outstanding. A dou­
see CIOBANU/page 17 





