the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Bengal Bouts celebrates 80th year 
Program plans to send millionth dollar to Holy Cross Mission in Bangladesh, will host prelims Saturday 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
This year’s Bengal Bouts tournament, which begins this weekend, marks two milestones for the boxing club, as the group will cele­brate its 80th anniversary and send its millionth dollar to the Holy Cross Missions in Bangladesh. 
“There’s so much surround­ing the club right now,” sen­ior captain Michael Sayles said. “The goal is to raise $80,000 on the 80th.” 
The club — started in 1920 by Knute Rockne — will hold 
see BOUTS/page 4 




Visiting scholar addresses sustainablity 
of a U.S. diplomat, Boardman lived in a number of different developing countries growing up, one factor that stimulated her interest in sustainable development, she said. 
“It’s controversial and com­plicated,” Boardman said. 
Phase II of the Green Revolution, she said, began in 1992 at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development “Earth Summit” in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. 
The lecture focused on ways technology can develop agri­cultural methods that would achieve food security for “the 
see LECTURE/page 6 


By KATIE PERALTA 
Assistant News Editor 
Access to food and clean water is an essential human right, and science and tech­nology have a key role to play in sustainable development. 
This loaded message was the theme of a lecture titled “The Fight Against World Hunger: Phase II of the Agricultural Green Revolution,” delivered Tuesday at the Hesburgh Center Auditorium by Reilly Center visiting scholar Margaret Carroll Boardman. 
From a family of Notre Dame graduates and daughter 


Chattopadhay brings experiencetoteaching 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 

The only thing longer than Professor Tamo Chattopadhay’s last name is his list of life experiences. 
“This is my fourth life,” Chattopadhay said. “Growing up in India, finishing high school, that was my first life. I was a little bit adven­turous and I wanted to study sci­ence.” 
Chattopadhay received a scholar­ship to study Physics in Moscow, Russia, which he considers his sec­ond life. 
“It was a major culture shock. It was the former Soviet Union, around 1983,” Chattopadhay said. “It was a very different society and a fascinat­ing social experiment.” 
His third life was spent in New York City, arriving in 1992 and working in finance with companies like J.P. Morgan. 
“I quickly realized everything I had learned in physics was in great demand in finance,” Chattopadhay said. 
“Here is a turning point for my life, around 1998, when I was secure in my career, I just began really to question, what is it that I want to do?” Chattopadhay said. “Is this the most rewarding way to spend life? All of this is fun, but somewhere I was feeling a little bit 
see PROFESSOR/page 4 


College revises housing policies 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
With room selection for the 2010-11 academic year quickly approaching, the Department of Residence Life and Community Standards at Saint Mary’s is working to help make the process run more efficiently with changes to the former quota system, renovations and additions to the Web site and more information sessions and more activities for students. 
The quota system is one of the more disputed issues that has come up over the years, according to Slandah Dieujuste, director of Residence Life at the College. The system limited the number of students from the different class years that could live in each hall. 
“We have heard quite a bit over the years how students didn’t think that was the best way to do room selection so we got rid of the quota system this year,” Dieujuste said. 
The one exception, she said, will be in Queens Court, a small wing on the second floor of Le Mans Hall, which will be reserved for incoming students. 
“Instead of having first year students scattered around Le Mans, we want to try to create 
see HOUSING/page 6 

LNO celebrates 24th anniversary 
Event helps raise funds for St. Joseph County Special Olympics 



By CAITLYN KALSCHEUR 
News Writer 
Late Night Olympics (LNO), an interhall competition that benefits St. Joseph County Special Olympics, is back for the 24th time, beginning tonight at 6 p.m., coordinator Tim Novak said. 
The Games will involve 14 events and take place in the Joyce Center field house and the Rolfs Aquatic Center. Events will include volleyball, men ’s and women ’s 3-on -3 basketball, innertube water polo, target golf, cornhole, broomball, men’s and women’s racquetball, kayaking, dodge-
see OLYMPICS/page 6 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Irish Gardens sees increase in demand page 3  ‘Valentine’s Day’ preview page 10  Men’s basketball wrap page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Friday, February 12, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Bad romance 

It has often been noted that the relation­ships and interactions between members of the opposite sex are strained here on this campus. People note unfair gender rela­tions, segregation of dorms, parietals, the ring by spring and the infamous “Hook-up” Carly Landon culture we cultivate here under the 
News Wire 
Golden Dome, as just 
Editor 
a few examples of these growing ten­sions. 

In this midst of all this criticism, it is great to be reminded that romance isn’t dead. 
Boys on campus will get girls numbers and text them, which is practically the love note of this century. Members of the oppo­site sex will meet up at parties, and the occasional lunch-date occurs. There are the infrequent Starbucks’ or Reckers’ meetings, and even the classy dorm date — just “chill­ing” in a dorm room. Nope, romance really isn’t dead. Life at Notre Dame must confirm it. Valentine’s Day is heading our way, and it will bring us the reassurance that love is alive and well. Thankfully, we don’t even have to go far as the dining hall will be host­ing a romantic feast, sure to win you the girl or boy of your dreams. 
Here’s a few ideas for how to meet that special someone. 
Go up to that cutie from class. Last semes­ter, a boy in class came up to me and asked if I wanted to hang out or get lunch or some­thing. I apologized saying I had a boyfriend. To which he promptly responded with a sideways glance saying he had a girlfriend. We haven’t talked since, but hey maybe it’ll work for you. I’ll cross my fingers. 
An even better idea is utilizing the roman­tic setting of the Library to your advantage. How could you not fall madly in love when surrounded by all those dusty books and hieroglyphics stenciled into the cubicles? On a recent visit, it was a night when I’d really thought chivalry must be dead. But to my dismay, my knight in shining armor arrived, masked in a handsome grey hoodie. There I was, attempting to tackle a large pile of homework, and there he was: walking wist­fully by, sitting at a nearby table dreamily tapping his fingers seductively, shaking his leg effortlessly, having his hood pulled up so I couldn’t see his face. Anything he could do to pester me he would. It seemed to me to be his ultimate mission. In the old days, annoyance led to attraction, and attraction led to instant marriage, just look at Romeo and Juliet. What an awesome plan. My cloaked suitor must have known. 
For three hours, he sat there, without a book on his desk, just teasing me silently with his aggravating presences. Finally, as I packed up to leave, he handed me a note and fled. I didn’t get to see his face as his abundant confidence led him to flee, or more literally, run out of the Library. But don’t worry, he gave me his number. 
So this hooded figure, this Romeo-esque studier, Phantom of the Library and I have never met. But believe me we are getting somewhere. Somewhere so far we are embarking on a real life Notre Dame romance, all I have to do is text him and we are there. 
So this to all you other Domers: Romance truly isnt gone. It is here and alive within this campus. It can be yours, just grab a date, take her or him to D.H. Apparently you can even walk up to a random girl and sparks will fly and a deep, meaningful rela­tionship will bloom. Good luck! 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Carly Landon at clandon@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT ARE YOUR PLANS FOR VALENTINE’S DAY? 





Kim Plemel  Sam Laycock  Max Scodro  Jesse Hoelscher  Melissa Santos  
sophomore Ryan  freshman Farley  sophomore O’Neill  freshman Zahm  junior Pangborn  
“Avoid it at all costs.”  “I’m watching the Daytona 500!”  “It’s the day after my birthday. It’s  “Hanging out with my girlfriend.”  “I have a date with Jesus. 10 p.m. Pangborn  
stealing my  Chapel.”  
thunder.”  


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Pangborn Hall’s phoxy mascot advertises Project Pink, the dorm’s signature event, on South Quad on Thursday afternoon. Project Pink is a fashion show that features all pink clothing items. 
OFFBEAT 
Teen found in igloo with pot, bongs and knife 
NEW CASTLE, Del. — Police responding to a report of a suspicious man carrying a gun instead found two legs sticking out of a homemade igloo. New Castle County police said the legs belong to Delaware teen who was arrested Wednesday after he was found to be carrying a survival knife, a hammer, 7.5 grams of marijuana and two marijuana pipes. 
County police spokesman Senior Cpl. Trinidad Navarro said the teen was released to his parents. Police said he was charged with carrying a concealed deadly weapon, carrying a concealed deadly instrument, possession of drug paraphernalia and pos­session of marijuanalegunt saepius. 
Boston forgives tickets given during non-storm 
BOSTON — Boston offi­cials said the owners of thousands of vehicles ticket­ed or towed during a snow­storm that never was won’t have to pay a cent. With forecasters predicting up to a foot of snow on Wednesday, the city declared a snow emergency, which requires main thoroughfares to be free of vehicles to allow plows to fully clear the streets. 
The Boston Transportation Department said the city ticketed 3,353 vehicles at $45 a pop and towed anoth­er 229 at $90 each. 
Then the snow came — barely a dusting. 
Mayor Tom Menino said the unpredictable nature of the storm and the fact that many families are already struggling prompted him to waive the fines. 
Transportation Department Tom Tinlin said the decision was “in the best interests of the city.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight SATURDAY SUNDAY 

IN BRIEF 
The Fifth Annual Edith Stein Project: “No Man is an Island: Creature, Culture and Community” will take place today from noon to 9:30 p.m. in McKenna Hall. The event is free and open to all. 
A short classical concert entitled Bach’s Lunch: A Noontime Concert will take palce today at 
12:10 p.m. in the Penote Performer’s Hall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The event is free but tickets are required. Call 574-631-2800 for reservations. 
The film “Broken Embraces” will be shown tonight at 6:30 p.m. in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for stu­dents, $4 for seniors and $6 for general admission. Purchase tickets online at performin­garts.nd.edu 
The musical drama “Parade” will be presented by PEMCo. tonight at 7 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are $6 for students and $8 for all non-students. Tickets can be purchased at the LaFortune Box Office or by callling 574-631-8128. 
The Brazilian Carnaval will be celebrated tonight from 8 p.m. to midnight at South Dining Hall. The event features live music and dancing. The event is free and open to all. 
Notre Dame’s 1st Annual “Polar Bear Plunge” will take place Saturday from 2 p.m. to 3 
p.m. at St. Joseph’s Lake. The cost is a $5 donation to Haiti relief. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed informa­tion about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

Atlanta 34 / 24 Boston 36 / 18 Chicago 28 / 18 Denver 47 / 32 Houston 49 / 34 Los Angeles 68 / 48 Minneapolis 28 / 16 New York 34 / 21 Philadelphia 33 / 19 Phoenix 72 / 49 Seattle 51 / 46 St. Louis 34 / 25 Tampa 53 / 41 Washington 35 / 25 

Friday, February 12, 2010 The Observer  NEWS page 3 



Campusflowershop anticipatesValentine’s 

By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
With Valentine’s Day just around the corner, Irish Gardens is facing a huge spike in business, but Notre Dame’s student-run flower shop strives to maintain its personal approach to customers while dealing with a large increase in orders. 
“Valentine’s Day is our busiest time of year, hands down,” Michelle Maloney, senior and general manager of Irish Gardens, said. “This year we’ve been trying to make it even easi­

er for customers to “The personal unsure about order flowers.” what kind of 
experience is really
Irish Gardens, flowers he 
what sets Irish
which has been should order,” operating since Gardens apart.” Maloney said. 1972 when women Maloney also were first admit-said Irish 
General manager
ted to the Gardens
Michelle Maloney 
University, is receives a attempting to Irish Gardens great deal of eight different pre-made Valentine’s Day bouquets that incorporate a variety of flowers and vary in size to accommo­date any budget. In addition, customers can create their own bouquets by choosing from the shop’s selection of flowers sold by the stem. 
Maloney said one of the shop’s defining characteristics is the level of personal interaction cus­tomers have with the employees who make their orders. 
“It helps us learn more about our customers and understand exactly what they’re looking for, which is really useful when a guy comes in completely 
make ordering effortless for stu­dents, the shop has staffed a table in LaFortune where cus­tomers can place orders. The store’s hours have also been extended for the weekend to accommodate last-minute orders. 
Despite the inevitable rush of late orders, Maloney said that Irish Gardens encouraged cus­tomers to place orders early by providing discounted delivery on orders placed prior to Feb. 10. 
This year, the shop is offering business from 


other sources, such as girls ordering flowers for friends, parents ordering from across the country for their children and even faculty and staff members placing orders at the shop. Even though cross-country customers may not have direct contact with employees, the shop strives to maintain a personal connection with every customer. 
“The personal experience is really what sets Irish Gardens apart,” Maloney said. “We all work really hard throughout the week to make sure that cus­tomers have a positive experi­ence with the shop.” 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 

IRScracksdownonworkerabuse 
Associated Press 
NASHUA, N.H. — The Internal Revenue Service and 37 states are cracking down on companies that try to trim pay­roll costs by illegally classifying workers as independent con­tractors, rather than as full employees, The Associated Press has learned. The practice costs governments billions in lost revenue and can leave workers high and dry when they are hurt at work or are left jobless. 
Many who have studied the problem believe it’s worsened during the economic downturn, fueling even more aggressive recovery efforts by states. 
“I think the economic down­turn has had a serious impact ... has exacerbated the prob­lem,” said Vermont Rep. Warren Kitzmiller, who chaired a panel that recently reported on the issue. “Businesses are looking to trim costs in every way they can, and some are coming very close to shading the legal with the illegal on that question.” 
For a growing number of companies, including Target, FedEx Ground and Comcast, cutting costs means removing workers from the payroll or bringing on new workers — sometimes through intermedi­ary companies — without mak­ing them full employees. 
The Society for Human Resource Management, repre­senting company personnel departments nationwide, said it surveyed members in October 2008 and found 12 percent of them were moving to use more independent contractors, con­tingent and temporary workers because of the recession. 
By designating workers as “independent contractors,” businesses can save as much as 30 percent of payroll — avoid­ing unemployment insurance and workers’ compensation payments, as well as the employer’s share of payroll withholding. 
The practice also deprives states of sorely needed income as rising jobless rates strain their budgets. The nation’s unemployment rate in January was 9.7 percent. 
Typically, unless workers fight for and win a ruling that they should have been treated as full employees, they aren’t able to collect workers’ com­pensation for the injury or unemployment benefits when left jobless. 
The federal Government Accountability Office estimated that employee misclassification resulted in the underpayment of an estimated $2.72 billion in Social Security taxes, unem­ployment insurance taxes and income taxes in 2006, the last year for which figures are available. 
The IRS said it would begin a three-year study of the issue this month. State crackdowns include: 
uNew York: A multi-agency team reported finding nearly 31,500 cases of employee mis­classification and nearly $390 million in unreported wages from Sept. 2007 and the end of 2009. It had ordered employers to pay more than $28 million in past-due wages, taxes and penalties. 
New York’s numbers were up significantly. Its team found 12,300 misclassification cases in the 16 months ending in December 2008; by a year later it had found about 19,200 more. 
u California: Orange County prosecutors said last year they would seek $38 million from a couple for workers’ compensa­tion fraud for failing to pay pre­miums and submitting claims for 42 injured but uninsured workers at their construction companies 
uFlorida: 
A 2008 statewide grand jury found some con­struction contractors conspired with check-cashing stores to fake payments to a bogus sub­contractor, cash the checks themselves and pay workers cash, under the table. 

• 
Ohio: The state’s Bureau of Workers’ Compensation ruled last year that a former state attorney general’s top aide improperly classified all four employees at his Youngstown construction firm; on appeal only two were found misclassi­fied. The state won’t say how much he owes in restitution. 


Matthew Capece, an officer with the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, called the states’ efforts encouraging. 
“We’re beginning to see the state and federal government fighting back and taking more interest,” Capece said. But, “There’s a lot of road left to travel to fix this.” 
Companies say using inde­pendent contractors helps them keep costs down and stay flexi­ble in an increasingly tough and competitive economy. 
“Some companies desire to focus on core business func­tions,” said Kevin Hishta, an Atlanta-based lawyer who rep­resents employers in labor relations matters. “They may feel they do not have the expertise to handle a particular function or that it would be more efficiently handled by others.” He offered as an example “a carpet manufactur­er who decides ‘I really don’t need to be in the installation business.’” 



page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 12, 2010 

Professor 
continued from page 1 
empty.” 
At this time, Chattopadhay decided to leave finance and go into teaching. 
“After a six-month visit to India where I grew up, I decided to come back and pursue studies in international development and education. That’s the current life, right now,” Chattopadhay said. “It looks like this is it. This is the life I action research project in educa­tion in India,” Chattopadhay said. “There’s a very charismatic, edu­cational leader who’s a 74-year­old Irish nun who runs an amaz­ing school in Calcutta.” 
Notre Dame’s News and Information Office detailed the group’s research on Notre Dame’s home page and in Notre Dame Magazine’s most recent issue on student research and volunteer­ing initiatives. 
“When I first came to Notre Dame, I was unsure. I had my 
doubts about 
teaching at the 

really wanted.” undergraduate 
“I am enriched a lot 
Chattopadhay level. I’ve never 
by my students, and
joined Notre taught at a Dame’s ranks in that really changed Catholic universi-
August 2008, my perspective on ty. But I think after finishing his what fascinated 
teaching in
doctorate at me, what contin-Columbia many ways.” ues to fascinate University and me, about Notre consulting for Dame is how 
Tamo Chattopadhay 
international well-prepared I
professor
organizations like find the students 
UNICEF. Education, Schooling are, and how 
“After finishing and Society engaged and my doctorate, I aware they are realized that about issues of coming into an academic institu-social justice — how keen they tion, finding a career as a teacher are to engage,” Chattopadhay and researcher, is my path,” said. Chattopadhay said. “There’s an ethos about service, 
Chattopadhay dedicated himself social justice, human rights, to equality in education and such which is for me, teaching interna­initiatives. Working as a professor tional issues about development in the Education, Schooling and and education, a tremendous Society minor as well as with the source of inspiration. I am Institute for Educational enriched a lot by my students, Initiatives, Chattopadhay has and that really changed my per-begun comparative research spective on teaching in many working with students in Brazil, ways,” he said. India and the United States. 
“One of the research projects Contact Amanda Gray at we undertook last year was an agray3@nd.edu 
Cross Missions in the country. the fight brings him back 


Bouts 
“Our help has been moving every year, and is what he will 
to something more along the most miss when he fights in 
continued from page 1 
lines of education and work-his last tournament this week. 
ing to help and maintain build “There are two rings going the preliminary fights schools,” he said. at once, and all this yelling Saturday. The boxing club recently and screaming,” Ponzio said. 
Sayles said the boxers are teamed up with the Center for “There’s just this certain currently striving to hit that Social Concerns to establish atmosphere that comes with $80,000 mark, and making an International Summer the start of the fights.” significant progress. Service Learning Project in Sayles said the best part of 
“There are more people Bangladesh. the fight is the support of his participating this year than Along with its service com-dorm, Sorin College. ever before,” he said. “The ponent though, Cugliari said “Having 70-plus guys from really unique thing about this boxing is an opportunity for the dorm screaming your is that we have Notre Dame stu-name is far and away the so many people dents to fulfill a coolest thing,” Sayles said. learning about c o m p e t i t i v e “It’s just insane.” 
“There’s just this 
a sport that not drive. Cugliari said boxing has a
certain atmosphere
many people “A lot of guys reputation as a violent sport, learn about that comes with the come in with but the service and character-these days, but start of the fights.” self doubts, not building aspect of the tourna­we can also sure if they can ment offer a positive contribu­help out thou-cross certain tion to the Notre Dame com-
Nicholas Ponzio 
sands of peo -boundaries, and munity. ple.” Bengal Bouts captain when they go “Despite the reputation box-
In order to through training ing might have as a brutal raise money, and step sport, it helps people push each boxer is given 15 tickets through the ropes in front of boundaries and really discov­to sell. Co-president and sen-thousands of people it shows er a lot about themselves. It’s ior captain Patrick Burns said a lot about their growth and a sport really helps people 199 students are fighting in character,” he said. grow,” he said. this year’s tournament. For senior captain Nicholas Sayles said Irish basketball 
Burns said a high number of Ponzio, four coach Mike novice fighters joined the club years as part Brey will open 
“The really unique thing 
this year — something he of the club the prelimi­
about this is that we
attributes to increased aware-has offered a naries with a ness for the service mission of chance to have so many people few words, the tournament. build rela -and the cap-
learning about a sport
Former boxing club presi-tionships. tains are 
that not many people
dent Mark Weber, a 2009 “My fresh -working to graduate, co-produced a doc-man year, I learn about these days, procure umentary, “Strong Bodies won my first another spe­
but we can also help out
Fight: Rough Cut,” to high-fight, and cial guest to 
thousands of people.” 
light the relationship Bengal then my sec-speak at the Bouts has with the Holy Cross ond fight was finals. Missions in Bangladesh. against a kid Michael Sayles The prelimi­
“I think it’s a good diver-who became naries begin 
Bengal Bouts captain
sion. It’s a good service to the the president Saturday at 1 Missions. 200 guys have the of team next p.m. The opportunity to help out some-year. I ended up losing, which quarterfinals will take place 
one halfway across the was a humbling experience,” Feb. 16 at 6 p.m. and the world,” Burns said. Ponzio said. “But he and I semifinals, Feb. 23 at 6 p.m. 
Co -president and senior ended up being good friends, The final fights will be Feb. captain Chris Cugliari said the and we trained together the 27 at 7 p.m. club has been pushing to cre-next year.” ate a more “self-sustaining” Ponzio said the energy in Contact Madeline Buckley at relationship with the Holy the Joyce Center on the day of mbuckley@nd.edu 


World & Nation 
Friday, February 12, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Shooting occurs ahead of Carnival 
RIO DE JANEIRO — Gunfire erupted Thursday in a Rio de Janeiro slum, killing at least seven suspected drug traffickers and a policeman a day before Carnival celebrations kick off. 
A police spokesman said the gunbattle in the Jacarezinho slum started while police were on a routine patrol. He declined to be quoted by name, citing standard department policy. 
Jacarezinho is located in northern Rio, far from the tourist areas and the Carnival par­ties that open Friday and draw about 500,000 visitors each year. 
But the violence nevertheless adds to con­cerns about the city’s image and how much it will be able to curtail violence as it prepares to host the 2016 Olympics. 
Milkshake murder case overturned 
HONG KONG — Nancy Kissel has always maintained that she killed her investment banker husband in self-defense, fending off a physical and sexual attack, but a Hong Kong jury found her guilty four years ago of sedating him with a laced milkshake before bludgeoning him to death. 
In a stunning reversal Thursday, however, the territory’s highest court overturned that conviction, ordering a retrial in the case that has grabbed headlines and spawned a book and TV special with its lurid tale of adultery, drug use and sex abuse in the rar­efied world of wealthy American expatri­ates. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Tension fills Oregon over extremists 
EUGENE, Ore. — The students stomped their feet, heckled and then stood and turned their backs as the speaker at the University of Oregon defended red-baiting Sen. Joseph McCarthy and called Martin Luther King Jr. a communist dupe. 
With more than 30 security officers assigned to keep the peace, the 90-something patriarch of the group sat in a wheelchair next to the speak­er, silently observing the spectacle while at times half-asleep. 
A campus with a reputation for young, leftist radicals has been roiled in protest in recent weeks as the aging collection of extremists — deemed a hate group by those who track the issue — has intensified its message, including a Hitler salute at an event in December. 
Condomsusedinenvironmentalcrusade 
TUCSON, Ariz. — An Arizona-based environ­mental group that fights to protect endangered species plans to distribute 100,000 free condoms across the U.S. beginning on Valentine’s Day. 
The Center for Biological Diversity in Tucson says the promotion is meant to call attention to the impact of human overpopulation on endan­gered species. 
The group will hand out six different condom packages with original artwork. Slogans on the packages include “Wrap with care, save the polar bear,” and “Wear a condom now, save the spotted owl.” 
The center’s Randy Serraglio says human overpopulation is destroying wildlife habitat at an unprecedented rate. 
The endangered species condoms will be dis­tributed in bars, supermarkets, schools, con­certs, parties, and other public events. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Indiana knocks new climate proposal 
INDIANAPOLIS — A former Indiana health commissioner and other health experts are criti­cizing a move in Congress aimed at preventing steps to regulate greenhouse gases. 
Republican U.S. Sen. Lisa Murkowski of Alaska recently introduced a measure that would bar the Environmental Protection Agency from issuing regulations to reduce pollution blamed for climate change. It must first pass Congress and be signed by the president. 
Former state health commissioner Dr. Richard Feldman on Thursday called the measure “noth­ing other than bad public health policy.” Feldman was state health commissioner from 1997 to 2001. 
East Coast blizzards set records 
Winter weather surpasses previous highs, closes schools and causes turmoil 
Associated Press 
PHILADELPHIA — Crews in Maryland worked to res­cue motorists stranded on highways in snow drifts up to 8 feet and utility workers scrambled to restore power to more than 100,000 cus­tomers a day after a power­ful storm disrupted the lives of some 50 million people from the southern plains up through the East Coast. 
The storm has been blamed for more than a dozen deaths, mostly in traf­fic accidents. 
Snowbound airports resumed limited operations but many flights were still canceled or delayed. School systems in the path of the storm remained closed for a second day, including in Baltimore, Philadelphia and Washington, D.C., although New York City school chil­dren headed back to class after only their third snow day in six years. 
In Washington, the federal government was closed for a fourth straight day. The nation’s capital joined Philadelphia and Baltimore in logging their snowiest winters in history. 
Paul Kocin, a meteorolo­gist for the National Weather Service in Washington, said the storm compares to some of the greatest ever largely overnight on U.S. 340. The Virginia state line. Early Show.” because of its timing. He highway became impassable Yue-Chung Siu, 25, got up Fenty has come under estimated 50 million people after two tractor-trailers early to be at work at his growing criticism for the were affected. jacknifed and blocked the family’s bagel store in city’s snow removal efforts 
“The big difference is that road. Philadelphia by 5:30 a.m. and for still not having it occurred within a week Frederick County Director Thursday. He said his nor-cleared snow from the previ­and a half of three other of Emergency Preparedness mal 30 minute commute ous storm. storms,” Kocin said. “The Seamus Mooney said by from Bensalem turned into He said the city has spent combination of storms is noon Thursday they were an hour and 45 minutes at least double its normal almost unprecedented — the down to 12 vehicles with because of detours and poor-budget on snow removal and amount of snow, the amount people still in them. He said ly plowed roads. expects to ask the federal of impact.” others walked home or got He recalled the record-government for help. 
The latest storm dumped rides to their destinations. breaking blizzard of January The storm has been over 19 inches in Baltimore, Maryland State Police 1996. blamed for at least a dozen 10 inches in Washington, spokesman Greg Shipley said “I was a little kid, so I had deaths. In addition to traffic 
D.C. and 16 inches in none of the stranded drivers a lot of fun,” Siu said. “Now, accidents, two snowmobilers Philadelphia. About 20 inch-appeared to be in physical it’s like half-fun, half-has-were killed in Lancaster, Pa., es fell in central New Jersey distress and most chose to sle.” when they struck a vehicle. and totals ranged from 10 to stay in their vehicles rather D.C. Mayor Adrian Fenty A New Jersey man was 16 inches around New York than go to a shelter. said it would take another killed when a tree branch hit City. The biggest problem has 24 hours to see a lot of nor-him as he used his snow-
Rescue workers in western been getting tow trucks to mal government operations. blower in his driveway. And Maryland broke through 6-the scene to remove tractor-“Then we have a nice, long another New Jersey man to-8-foot snowdrifts to reach trailers blocking the road on weekend and the city should died when snow caused an motorists in more than two the 15-mile stretch between be back on its feet by awning to collapse on top of dozen vehicles stranded Frederick and the West Tuesday,” he told CBS’ “The him. 

HAITI 
Haitian judge poised to release missionaries 
continues. the possibility that they can all be 
Associated Press 
It is unclear when the missionaries, released,” Saint-Vil told The 
PORT-AU-PRINCE — The 10 U.S. most from an Idaho Baptist church Associated Press. “I am recommend-missionaries facing trial for trying to group, might be released, and Saint-ing that all 10 Americans be take a busload of children out of Haiti Vil said it was too early to say released.” should be released from jail while an whether they would be able to leave It wasn’t known late Thursday investigation continues, a Haitian this earthquake-crippled Caribbean whether the prosecutor had received judge said Thursday, giving the nation if granted provisional free-Saint-Vil’s formal recommendation. Americans their best news since their dom. It is also unclear what bearing The prosecutor couldn’t be reached arrests nearly two weeks ago. releasing the missionaries might for comment. 
Judge Bernard Saint-Vil has the have on whether they go to trial. The Americans were charged last final word on whether to free the Saint-Vil on Thursday privately week with child kidnapping and missionaries, though he gave the questioned the last of a group of par-criminal association after being prosecutor-general the opportunity to ents who said they willingly gave arrested Jan. 29 while trying to take raise objections. He said he was their children to the Baptist mission-33 children, ages 2 to 12, across the accepting defense attorneys’ request aries, believing the Americans would border to an orphanage they were to provisionally free the Americans educate and care for them. trying to set up in the Dominican while an investigation of the case “After listening to the families, I see Republic. 

page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 12, 2010 
ask for exceptions because they forgot a deadline and it’s 
Lecture Housing 
something we cannot make out of fairness to everyone,” 
continued from page 1 
continued from page 1 

Dieujuste said. “We have to a small community for them,” keep the system.” Dieujuste said. A Roommate Social will be 
poor and excluded of the Residence Life will also held for the students in search 
world,” a significant goal given begin posting information for of a roommate for next year 
the booming world population. room selection, including lot-on March 4 in McCandless 
“The world population has tery numbers and times for Hall from 7 to 8:30 p.m. 
exploded as never before in selection, on its Web site, “We are still kind of working 
history,” Boardman said. “Most Dieujuste said. In the past, to see how it’s going to go, but 
of the expected growth is in there has been a bulletin in Le it’s going to look at trying to 
developing countries.” Mans Hall, but she said that find people that have similar 
Sustainable development, she “wasn’t the most efficient way living habits to them and just 
said, means something differ-to do things.” an opportunity to meet people 
ent to everyone. It can mean Unlike in the past, students in the Saint Mary’s community 
food protection, technological will also be receiving their lot-that they haven’t met yet,” 
innovation, protection of the tery numbers via e-mail Mihalopoulos said. 
environment and respect for rather than a list in One thing that will not 
indigenous people, among Reignbeaux Lounge in Le change in the room selection 
other definitions. [own organic] garden, how will of a number of countries and Mans Hall, Dieujuste said. process is the requirement for 
“Pope Benedict noted that we we feed the [hungry] people of continents, including China, Due to the changes being students to remain on campus 
can’t solve problems of devel-the world?” she said. Mexico, Brazil — which in 2008 made, there will also be infor-for six semesters. According to 
opment in the world without Boardman noted the problem was third largest producer of mation sessions offered to stu-Dieujuste, it is in keeping with 
addressing technology,” of labor shortage as hindering GE crops — and Africa, where dents from any class year to the mission of the College, 
Boardman said. the development of the organic the situation is “very complicat­help things run more smooth-which is to be a women’s resi-
Boardman outlined three industry. ed.” ly, said Katy Shea, hall direc-dential institution. 
agricultural systems and “If we’re going to do organic “The population going to soar tor of McCandless Hall. “That was something that 
methodologies in practice: gardening, we are going to because of international aid,” Room selection itself has was voted in by the cabinet 
organic, biotechnological and have to find more labor,” she she said. “The problem is that been moved from Reignbeaux even before I came here,” she 
hybridization. said. aid is not going to teach Lounge to the Earley said. “Every year we hear 
“The systems are not mutual-Pest management, market Africans how to solve their own Conference rooms and Vander rumors from the students that 
ly exclusive in theory, however, expansion and sanitary storage agricultural problems.” Vennet Theater in the base-it has been done away with. 
in practice they currently are are among other hindrances to Boardman pointed to aware­ment of the Student Center, It’s here to stay.” 
exclusive due to national regu-organic farming, she said. ness and education as two key according to Holy Cross Hall Lastly, Dieujuste advises stu­
latory systems,” Boardman Biotechnology advancements factors that will progress sus­director Christine dents to be thoughtful of 
said. have, Boardman said, helped tainable development. Mihalopoulos. whom they choose to live with 
Hybridization, she said, farmers around the world “Lack of understanding can In order to avoid making and be sure that both parties 
includes scientists crossing develop technology that forti-delay the progress of sustain-students wait all evening dur-know what they are getting in 
plant genomes to isolate and fies crops and fosters a able development,” she said. ing selection if they have high-to. 
introduce new traits like height stronger possibility for distribu-The talk was sponsored by er lottery numbers, Residence “Choose your roommate 
and sun tolerance. tion and consumption. They two groups focused on global Life has created time slots for carefully,” Dieujuste said. 
The first two, organic and have been monitored in the sustainable development, the students in two-hour incre-“[Students] need to have an 
biotechnological, however, she United States for more than 20 International Development ments, Dieujuste said. honest conversation about 
said, are the most important years, she said. Research Council and The “The student will have a their lifestyles and their 
agricultural systems in play Genetically engineered (GE) Reilly Center for Science, time to come during room habits, and even the room-
today. crops are one such innovation. Technology and Values. selection and they [won’t] mate’s plan of whether or not 
“Organic farmland has grown “Most of you have been eat-have to be there the whole they will back next semester 
tremendously over the past 10 ing genetically engineered food Contact Katie Peralta at night like in the past,” she or if they are going abroad or 
years,” Boardman said. for years,” she said. “GE foods kperalta@nd.edu said. will be transferring. It is their 
Although it is growing, she are the fastest to grow in Dieujuste said students can responsibility to make sure 
said, organic farmland is still acreage than any other crop in also play a part in helping the they have that conversation 
relatively small and occupies history.” night run better by paying with their friend and that they 
only 1 percent of planted She said Europeans are much attention to deadlines and the are on the same page.” 
acreage in the United States. more wary of GE crops than mail that is sent to them. 
“It’s challenging. I have to Americans are. “It’s frustrating for me and I Contact Ashley Charnley at 
wonder since I can’t feed Boardman outlined the think for us to hear students acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
myself or my family from my biotechnological advancements 
Olympics. “Last year, St. Joseph was 
Olympics 

one of the few counties that continued from page 1 didn’t have to cancel its win­
ter or summer games ball, men’s and women ’s because they had enough table tennis, and an obstacle money, due in part to funds course. raised from Late Night 
Though the games have Olympics,” McKeough said. been in action for 24 years, The Special Olympians will there are a few changes to take part in what both Novak this year’s schedule. and McKeough call their 
“This year’s games will favorite part of the event: begin with an opening cere-The St. Joseph Lions versus mony featuring the Notre Notre Dame staff basketball Dame Marching Band and game. some Special Olympians from “You get the chance to meet St. Joseph County,” Novak Olympians and talk with said. “I really think it will be them. To see the people you a great kickoff to the night.” affect is uplifting,” Novak 
Any student is eligible to be said. a part of Late Night Olympics If being an Olympian isn’t and all dorms have a repre-the kind of thing you’re into, sentative for students to con-there are other ways to help tact if they’re interested in out, Novak said. participating in the games. “There will be T-shirts for 
“I’m excited for volleyball sale at the event for $10 and 
— we get competitive,” Lyons there is a penny war going Hall representative junior on until Friday at midnight Katie McKeough, said. with jars at Rockne Memorial 
Aside from the competitive and Rolf’s Fitness Center,” he aspect of the games, there is said. the impact this event has on the community, namely the Contact Caitlyn Kalscheur at St. Joseph County Special ckalsche@nd.edu 





The Observer 
Business

Friday, February 12, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Google seeks compromise with China 
SAN FRANCISCO — Shedding China’s shack­les on free speech is proving to be easier said than done for Google Inc. 
The Internet search leader is still censoring its results in China a month after Google’s lead­ers took a public stand against Chinese laws that require the removal of links to Web sites that the government deems subversive or offen­sive. 
Citing the sensitivity of the talks, Google offi­cials won’t say how the negotiations have been going since the company issued its Jan. 12 threat to shut down its China-based search engine and possibly leave the country altogeth­er. Google is demanding that the government tear down the so-called “Great Firewall” that seeks to keep China’s citizens from finding politically sensitive information and images. 
Google’s top lawyer, David Drummond, initial­ly said that Google would take a few weeks to meet with government officials before deciding what to do. But Google officials now say the company might parse its Chinese search results for several more months while it steers through a political and cultural minefield in search of a compromise with the ruling party. 
Dairy industry fights for control 
BOISE, Idaho — Livestock groups that lost a recent Idaho Supreme Court decision asked lawmakers Thursday to come to their defense by scaling back local authority over large dairies with thousands of cows and tons of manure. 
Idaho Dairyman’s Association lobbyist Ken McClure told the Senate Agricultural Affairs Committee that Idaho should limit counties to matters involving the location of dairies and forbid them from passing stricter air and water quality standards than those already on Idaho’s books. 
Counties oppose the proposal, arguing exist­ing environmental laws have done little to address the cumulative effects of large dairies that have helped make Idaho the nation’s third biggest milk-producing state but also led to pollution concerns. 
“We’re not shutting the doors” to dairies, said Tom Faulkner, a Gooding County commis­sioner. “We’re just saying we want to protect the existing resources of the county.” 
Health insurer raises questions 
WellPoint Insurance price hike defense fails to satisfy feds and creates confusion 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Health insurer WellPoint is blaming the Great Recession and ris­ing medical costs for its planned 39 percent rate increase for some California customers of its Anthem Blue Cross plan. 
But Health and Human Services Secretary Kathleen Sebelius isn’t buying the explanation proffered in a letter delivered to her Thursday. 
Sebelius said “it remains difficult to understand” how premium increases of that size can be justified when WellPoint Inc. reported a $4.75 billion profit in the last quarter of 2009. She also noted that the premium increases are 10 times high­er than the increase in national health care costs. 
President Barack Obama has seized on the premium hikes in California as an ill omen of what will happen around the country if law­makers fail to enact health care overhaul legislation. “If we don’t act, this is just a preview of coming attrac­tions,” he said at a press con­ference Tuesday. 
Brian Sassi, the head of WellPoint’s consumer busi­ness unit, said in the letter to Sebelius that because of the weak economy, healthy peo­ple increasingly are dropping specify the size of the unit’s and requested testimony more stable for group health coverage or buying cheaper loss. from WellPoint CEO Angela insurance. In the individual plans. That reduces the pre-Affected customers can Braly at a Feb. 24 hearing. market, healthy people are mium revenue available to choose plans with lower pre-WellPoint is the largest more inclined to drop cover-cover claims from sicker cus-miums but higher out-of-publicly traded health insur-age when they see big price tomers who are keeping pocket costs, he said. er based on membership and hikes because they don’t their coverage. Sassi told Sebelius that is a dominant player in the have employer help paying 
The result was a 2009 loss insurance costs also continue individual insurance market for it, said Robert Laszewski, for the unit that sells individ-to rise because medical in California. Based in a health care consultant and ual policies to people who prices are increasing faster Indianapolis, the company former insurance executive. don’t get insurance through than inflation, and people runs Blue Cross and Blue That leaves behind sicker their employers, he said. are using more health care. Shield plans in 14 states and customers who stay because Higher rates for this group, That use increase is driven Unicare plans in several oth-they still need coverage. which accounts for about 10 by an aging population, new ers. Sassi said as much as one-percent of Anthem’s eight treatments and “more inten-WellPoint as a whole made third of their individual million customers in sive diagnostic testing,” he a profit of $4.75 billion in insurance customers leave California, are needed to wrote. 2009, though $2 billion of every year. That volatility can cover the shortfall expected Sebelius ordered a federal that came from the sale of a lead to big changes in the from the continuation of that inquiry earlier this week business. mix of people covered and trend, according to the letter. after the size of proposed Rates for individual health rate swings. Administrative 
“When the healthy leave premium increases for indi-insurance policies tend to costs also can be higher for and the sick stay, that is vidual policies was widely rise much faster than those individual lines because the going to dramatically drive publicized. A congressional of employer-sponsored cov-insurer has to sell each poli­up costs,” Sassi said in an committee also has asked for erage. cy individually instead of to a interview. He declined to information on the increases The pool of customers is larger group. 

Feds pass on surest solution to Asian carp 
Associated Press happy. kill fish that may have slipped through 
“It appears to be politically negotiated — is an expensive gamble that might not 
TRAVERSE CITY, Mich. — The surest rather than scientifically based ... sort of be enough to ward off an infestation. way to keep rampaging Asian carp from like trying to cut the baby in half,” said “We’re spending close to $80 million gaining a foothold in the Great Lakes is Thom Cmar, an attorney with the just for a short-term deterrent,” said Joel to sever the link between Lake Michigan Natural Resources Defense Council. “It Brammeier, president of the Alliance for and the Mississippi River basin, created offers a lot of middle-ground alternatives the Great Lakes, an environmental by engineers in Chicago more than a with no discussion of why any of them group. “We need to stop pushing money century ago. would actually work.” toward temporary solutions and get 
That would thrill environmentalists Shippers worry about a promised everyone on track toward investing in and those who make their living in the study that would examine closing more one that works for good — and that $7 billion Great Lakes fishing industry, often a pair of navigational locks at means absolute physical separation.” which could be devastated by a carp Chicago, and the prospect that a long-Bighead and silver carp — both native invasion. Not so the barge operators who term study could recommend severing to Asia — have been migrating toward move millions of tons of commodities on the connection between the river and the the lakes since escaping from Deep the Chicago-area waterways each year. lakes for good. South fish ponds and sewage treatment 
And so, pulled in different directions Environmentalists, meanwhile, fear plants in the 1970s. The biggest can by both, as well as politicians in the the plan’s reliance on strengthening an reach 100 pounds and 4 feet long, con-Great Lakes states, the Obama adminis-electric barrier designed to block the suming up to 40 percent of their body tration this week proposed a $78.5 mil-carp’s advance — and other measures, weight daily in plankton, the base of the lion plan that appears to make no one such as stepping up efforts to find and aquatic food chain. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 8 Friday, February 12, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
The Independent, Daily Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 
Meet Skylar Diggins and the 

P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Joseph McMahon Jared Jedick Molly Madden Allan Joseph Carly Landon Chris Allen Graphics Viewpoint Jaclyn Espinoza Ethan Bailey Scene Michelle Maitz Adriana Pratt 
women’s basketball team 
You’ve probably never seen Skylar Diggins play. 
It’s a shame, really. She’s quite a spectacle to see. But she also plays for the No. 4 team in the nation, which happens to play in a competitive conference right here on campus and it’s free for you to see. 
But you don’t. 
You all go to the football games. That team hasn’t posted 
a winning season since the majority of you have been here, yet there you were, clad in yellow, screaming away, counting down until the 1812 Overture so you could boo. 
But the women’s basketball team mows down opponent after opponent, goes 22-1, 9­1 in the Big East, and you don’t go. 
It’s no fluke. The Big East is a tough confer­ence. And Irish coach Muffet McGraw has shown she can win a championship: She did it in 2001. The team has a tal­ented group of seniors in Lindsay Schrader, Ashley Barlow and Melissa Lechlitner. Add Skylar and that lineup can deal with anyone in the country. 
The impact Diggins has had on this team is incredible. You really should see for yourself — but even money says you haven’t, so here’s a taste. She was named the 2009 Gatorade National High School Female Athlete of the Year. That’s the whole nation, every sport. That puts her in the company of LeBron James and Candace Parker. She’s cur­rently 12th in the Big East in scoring and averages 15 points per game in conference play. She was the Most Valuable Player of the Paradise Jam tournament (which the Irish won) and recently had 23 points and 10 rebounds in a win over Cincinnati. 
But that won’t resonate with any of you because none of you have seen her play. 
So come out. Don’t just come for Skylar, though. Come watch Schrader, the team’s leader, a passionate player who is third in the conference in field goal percentage. Come watch Barlow, a stout defender, or Lechlitner, a veteran 
with great court vision. 
More than that, come support a good team. The Irish won’t disappoint. You supported the women’s soccer team when they were highly ranked. Show that same support for women’s basketball. It is one of Notre Dame’s top athletic programs, and with the combination of Diggins 

make a push for a championship. 
There’s no better time to start than Sunday, when Notre Dame takes on DePaul at 3 p.m., because the Purcell Pavilion will turn into a Pink Zone, where the team will raise money for breast cancer research. There will be a silent auction and Pink Zone merchandise sales, and the team hopes to raise $55,000. 
Last year they got $48,000. Help them reach their goal. 
And help them reach their goal of a championship. Come watch Skylar work her magic, come scream loud on defense, come watch great basketball. 
The first two rounds of the NCAA Tournament are being held in the Purcell Pavilion this year as well. That’s when the Irish will really need you. If you cheer enough, maybe they’ll get much farther than that. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Often it does seem a pity that Noah and his party did not miss the boat.” 
Mark Twain 
U.S. author 
The Observer 
Viewpoint

Friday, February 12, 2010 page 9 
True love in Bali? 

She wasn’t on the dance floor at Club Fever sipping on a mixed drink. She was neither dripping with sweat inside The Backer, nor was she chatting with her friends in a small circle at Finny’s. While I suppose it’s possi­ble that I stepped foot into her apart­ment, I wouldn’t know it now. No, the love of my life wasn’t in any of these places (or at least I think), because from where I sit right now 

Bob Kessler 
(in a beachfront bar on the Indonesian The 19th island of Bali), the Grade love of my life is still absent from my life. 
A year ago I wrote a Valentine’s Day-themed piece in this paper describing my quest to find the love of my life at Club Fever. That weekend I spent time search­ing not only the dance floor of Fever, but also the crowded confines of Finny’s and The Backer. I moved between bars and house parties distributing Winnie the Pooh Valentines (complete with my name and phone number) to unsuspecting girls along the way, but I didn’t find her that day, or that week, or that semester. 
Instead I spent much of those mornings working off my hangovers by watching movies like “Definitely Maybe” and “When Harry Met Sally,” or re-runs of “The O.C.” that I had recorded off SoapNet. Distraight with my utter failure to purchase a ring by spring, I postponed my search and left the country to teach English in China. I didn’t think I would find the love of my life in Asia, and thus far I haven’t. In fact, I have found search­ing here to be immensely more difficult. 
The thing about Notre Dame bars is that you have to show your ID to get in. At Finny’s, it is nearly impossible to enter if you are under 21, and at The Backer it is incredibly difficult. Most Notre Dame students see this as a burden; they want to go to the bars, and they don’t want to get a fake ID to enter. For me, however, this burden is actually a gift, because (don’t let my Blogspot profile or Observer picture fool you) I look like a 17-year-old. 
At the bars of South Bend (and all of America), the fact that you need to show an ID to enter means (in theory) that everybody inside is over the age of 21. While this is an afterthought to most patrons, it was of critical importance for me because it subconsciously told every­body that I met inside that I was at least over the age of 21, and not the St. Joe’s High School student I appear to be. 
Here in Asia, however, there are no 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

PEMCo. misses the point 
While I understand your point of view, and while I agree with you about the message behind “Parade” being all the more pertinent at a university like Notre Dame, which needs improvement in several aspects of diversity and tolerance, I think you and the PEMCo. staff are missing the point. Diversity in the arts is always a good thing, but why is this only an issue when a racially-charged play is being performed? Wouldn’t a show like “Mamma Mia” that just happened to have some non-White leads serve the same purpose, namely subverting mainstream ideas about how race/ethnicity should play a certain part? I think the frustration Erdina (“Need for diversity in the arts,” Feb. 8) expressed is in response to PEMCo. treating diversity like a pet project every few years, rather than as a gen­eral principle of an organization that should strive to maximize its talent, regardless of racial background. 
Jasmin Simmons 
junior Pasquerilla West Hall Feb. 10 


legal drinking ages, and I have been asked my age more times by other patrons than I ever anticipated when I first crossed the Pacific. For me, trying to dance with a girl in the clubs of Shanghai, Vang Vieng (Laos) and Bali has been almost as difficult as explaining what hair cut I want to the Chinese stylist using nothing but hand motions. 
How can I possibly find true love in these circumstances that are almost as horrible as the new Facebook interface? 
Usually after a few drinks (OK, after a lot of drinks), I get fed up with all the ageism that is thrown in my direction from Australian, Swedish and Canadian girls, and I talk to a local for a while. Usually this local is very nice, until she asks me if I want sex, at which point I remember that paying for sex falls out­side of my moral spectrum (and I am a pro-choice morally repugnant Obama voter). 
After rejection and dejection, I leave the club or drinking place longing for the days of The Backer and Finny’s where I was rarely asked my age and at least had a chance at a Notre Dame hook-up. I might wander the streets for a while or maybe pass out in the back seat of a Chinese cab while thinking about that parallel universe where Flight 815 never crashed and where I am living in Chicago right now and going on a Valentine’s Date to “Valentine’s Day” (the movie) with some really awesome girl. 
Before I go to bed, however, I always wind up in the same position: with my hands on a keyboard and my eyes on Gmail. I’ll send messages to my friends spread all across the States telling them about my adventures and how great the drinking is in these strange corners of Asia, but deep down I know this isn’t why I’m in the Internet café or the hostel lounge at three in the morning. Deep down, I just want my friends, because the adventures and everything are great, but they would certainly be greater if I could be able to share them with the people whom I love instead of just telling these people about them on my Buzz (whatever this is). 
So with this weekend being Valentine’s Day, I wish they all were here with me; if not because I miss them, then because the white sand beaches have to beat the white snowpocalypse. 
Bob Kessler is a 2009 graduate currently on vacation from his position as an English Teacher in China and you can contact him at bob020787@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
A call to love 
Support the Bouts 
In case people haven’t been keeping up, there is a lot of discussion on campus and around the nation about gay rights. And yet, I feel like so much of the conversation is lost in isolating and destructive rhetoric. When I read some of The Observer Viewpoints, it is painfully clear that many Catholics fail to understand the Church’s teaching regard­ing human sexuality, whether it be heterosexuality or homosexuality. As a lesbian who struggled with identity, I read everything (yes, literally everything) the Catholic Church has written on the issue of human sexuality and homosexuality. I have read every passage from the Bible commonly thrown into the ring when discussing same sex attractions. I have read Biblical exegeses surrounding those texts. Am I an expert? Far from it. Have I done my home­work? Yes. 
When people make comments like, “There is no evidence that homosexuality is innate,” it is already clear to me that that individual hasn’t read anything the Catholic Church teaches on sexuality. Based on psychological evidence, from both secular psychological research and research conduct­ed by Vatican psychologists, the Church maintains that a person’s sexuality is an innate part of his or her creation. It cannot be controlled, chosen or changed. It simply is. To try to change a person’s sexuality is to change something God gave him or her. It cannot and should not be done. However, the Church teaches that there is only one ethical and moral expression of physical sexuality: That is, in a monogamous marriage between a man and a woman. 
That being said, our sexuality, whether heterosexual or homosexual, is something we express everyday. Our sexu­ality is a divine and mysterious gift from God. Being homo­sexual does not automatically mean that a person engages in homo-genital acts just as much as being heterosexual doesn’t mean a person engages in hetero-genital acts. Theologians describe our sexuality as that which makes us most like the Divine in that it brings out our creativity; it draws into meaningful friendships. A man or woman called to chaste life (i.e. priests, sisters, nuns) is still a sexual being; he or she is still heterosexual or homosexual, howev­er, in accordance to vows, does not act upon that sexuality through physical intimacy. 
When lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgendered and ally stu­dents ask that sexual orientation be added to the non-dis­crimination clause, we are not asking anyone to forfeit their belief in Catholic sexual morality. In fact, we are asking that the University uphold the Church’s teaching on human dig­nity. Adding “sexual orientation” does not mean that we are “imposing the beliefs of a minority on the majority.” We are not asking the University to condone same-sex marriage. We are not asking the University to condone homo-genital acts. What we are asking for is the exact same thing that the Catechism of the Catholic Church demands of Christians: “They [gay persons] must be accepted with respect, compassion, and sensitivity. Every sign of unjust discrimination in their regard should be avoided” (2358 Catechism of the Catholic Church). 
We are human beings, with the same goals as you. We are no different than you. Listen to our stories; get to know us; hear about our struggles. We are all students of higher learning. Even more important, we are all children of the same all-loving God. Part of being a student means step­ping out of one’s comfort zone and engaging with people who are different. Part of being a follower of Christ entails a radical call to love. When people stop labeling those who are different as “others” and start calling them “brother and sister,” they truly are bearing Christ to the world. 
I invite every professor and student at Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s to engage in a mature, intellectual and open discussion regarding sexuality, heterosexuality and, espe­cially, homosexuality. Don’t enter the discussion entrenched in beliefs, on either side, formed by someone else. Be open to the conversation. If nothing else, at least you can come away from the discussion able to say that you stepped out of your comfort zone. Dialogue requires of us that we listen, so open your hearts. 
Laurel Javors 
junior 
LeMans Hall 
Feb. 9 
Tomorrow afternoon the Bengal Bouts Tournament this mission is not possible without the support of each will be upon us. Nearly 200 men will not only be fight-boxer’s family and friends and all the people here at ing each other but will also be fighting for the Holy Notre Dame. Cross Missions in Bangladesh. Since November, these If you have not already, go find a boxer, buy a ticket boxers have given their sweat, blood and tears not only and support the cause and your friends. You will not be to the rigorous training necessary to ready themselves disappointed. Not only will you witness the unique sport for the sweet science but have also directed as much of boxing, but your donation will provide tremendous effort (if not more) to raise donations for people thou-impact (more than you could ever imagine) on a person sands of miles away in order to provide them with food you will never meet. and education. Simply, support the Bouts! 
This year in itself has special importance to the “Strong bodies fight, that weak bodies may be nour-Boxing Club. This year will be the 80th anniversary of ished.” — Dominic “Nappy” Napolitano the Bengal Bouts Tournament where the Boxing Club 
Dominic Golab 
will donate its one millionth dollar to the cause, a remarkable feat. Not only will that be achieved, but it junior may be possible that over $80,000 will be donated, an Stanford Hall amount never reached by prior tournaments. However, Feb. 11 
The Observer 
Scene

page 10 Friday, February 12, 2010 



was for the Christmas sea­son, “Valentine’s Day” is now expected to be for the Valentine’s Day “season.” The film features multiple meshed together plotlines and stars a team of the top romantic comedy stars in the industry, including Julia Roberts, Ashton Kutcher, Jessica Biel, Anne Hathaway, Jessica Alba, Jennifer Garner, Patrick Dempsey, Topher Grace and Bradley Cooper. 
Set in Los Angeles, the characters are all loose­ly related to each other. Julia Roberts plays Kate Hazeltine, a captain in the 
U.S. Army, who meets Holden (Cooper). In the meantime, florist Reed Bennett (Kutcher) propos­es to girlfriend Morley (Alba), while his best friend Julia (Garner), a grade school teacher, falls for Dempsey’s character, Dr. Harrison Copeland. 
Even just from the pre­view, one can see the same old trite plotlines, whether it’s Emma Roberts’ character Grace planning her first time with her boyfriend Alex (Carter Jenkins) or Biel’s character Kara planning a “We Hate Valentine’s Day” party. One can only hope that the previews will not represent the movie as a whole, or we will be pay-

By ALEX KILPATRICK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
It’s the American Valentine’s version of “Love Actually.” “Valentine’s Day” is meant to represent the all-encompassing spectrum of humanity’s views on love and the meaning of Valentine’s Day. Whether you’re going to see it for the endless list of cameos, to make fun of the chick flick clichés or even for the meaningful insight, the movie will be a must see. 
The romantic comedy, directed by Garry Marshall (who directed the classics “Pretty Woman” and “Runaway Bride,” along with the “Princess Diaries” movies) and written by Katherine Fugate, will star nearly 20 A-list Hollywood celebri­ties, which begs the ques­tion of why so much money went into making this big-budget movie for such a minor Hallmark-dominated holiday. According to Associated Content, New Line Cinema and Warner Brothers are hoping that with the expected success of this movie, Valentine’s Day will become a new money­maker for the movie industry. 
What “Love Actually” ing $8 to see a bunch of cameos wrapped into one huge cliché of a rom-com. 

John Debney composed the score to “Valentine’s Day,” record­ed it with the 
Hollywood Studio Symphony at the Sony Scoring Stage and wrote the song, “Every Time You Smiled,” for the movie with lyricist Glen Ballard, performed by Carina Round. The soundtrack also features Jewel’s “Stay Here Forever” and “Today Was a Fairytale” by Taylor Swift, who makes an 
appearance in the film opposite Taylor Lautner. 
Overall, the film looks like a clichéd American version of “Love Actually” for the Valentine’s Day season, but it does include cameos from several big budget Hollywood actors and actresses, so if you enjoy seeing any of these stars on the big screen, the movie is sure to be a well-produced film. 
Contact Alex Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 
The Observer 
Scene

Friday, February 12, 2010 page 11 


By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Do you plan on spending this Valentine’s Day with the most constant friends in your life, Ben and Jerry? Or would you just like to bring in the dynam­ic duo to join you and your sig­nificant other for a quality dou­ble date? Either way, Ben and Jerry are there for you, ready to provide with their typical brand of frozen goodness. Whether you’re a chocolate lover, dig the cookie dough or just want some fruity fun, there is a flavor for everyone. Get those spoons ready. 
Here are, in no particular 
order, 10 of Ben 
& Jerry’s best, 


be 
enjoyed by 
all. 
1. Cherry Garcia 
This clas­sic flavor, named after Grateful Dead gui­tarist Jerry Garcia, is a longtime favorite. In it, cherry ice cream gets swirled together with cherry and fudge chunks to create the perfect bal­ance of fruit and chocolate, guaranteed to please even the most discerning palette. It can even be found in a “healthy” low fat ver­sion, mak­ing those chocolate Kisses on the side 

seem like a great idea. 
2. Half Baked 
This ice cream, an ode to Dave Chappelle film “Half Baked,” features the delicious combo of chocolate and vanilla ice cream mixed with pieces of fudge brownies and bites of cookie dough. Perfect for those couples that just can’t seem to decide between Ben & Jerry’s Chocolate Fudge Brownie Ice Cream and Chocolate Chop Cookie Dough Ice Cream (both also terrific choices), or for anyone who thinks they can handle a mouthwatering com­bination of baked goods and ice cream. Again, this flavor can somehow be deemed “healthy” by buying the low fat version, just in case. 
3. Phish Food 
Ben and Jerry take their love for fellow Vermontians the band Phish to a new level with this entirely unique flavor. In it, one will find chocolate ice cream swirled together with gooey marshmallows, caramel and fudge fish. 
4. Dublin Mudslide 
Just because it’s Notre Dame. This popular flavor is perfect not only for Valentine’s Day, but for the upcoming St. Patrick’s Day season as well. Treat your taste buds to some Irish Crème liqueur ice cream mixed with chocolate chip cookies and a coffee fudge swirl. Although originally released as a limited-time-only flavor, its popularity brought Ben and Jerry to their senses, and can now be found year-round. 
5. Fossil Fuel 
For the kid in all of us. Enjoy your sweet cream ice cream with chocolate cookie pieces and a fudge swirl by adding some fudge dinosaurs to the mix! 
6. Stephen Colbert’s AmeriCone Dream 
Stephen Colbert 2012? Even if you’re not so into Mr. Colbert, can you turn down an ice cream that sends its proceeds to The Stephen Colbert AmeriCone Dream Fund, which gives money to help disadvan­taged children, veterans and the environment? I didn’t think so. The combination of vanilla ice cream, fudge covered waffle cone pieces and a caramel swirl should be the icing on top of the cake of the best altruistic ice cream out there! 
7. Karamel Sutra 
Another classic Ben & Jerry’s flavor, Karamel Sutra is sure to please any caramel fan out there with its core of soft caramel encircled by caramel and chocolate ice creams and fudge chips. 
8. Dave Matthews Band Magic Brownies Encore Edition 
This delicious flavor features black raspberry ice cream mixed with sweet cream ice cream and fudge brownies. Regardless of your high expec­tations, its sure to please all, once again mastering Ben & Jerry’s knack for mixing fruit and chocolate to delicious results. 
9. ONE Cheesecake Brownie 
It’s as simple as it sounds. Cheesecake ice cream com­bined with cheesecake brownie chunks. Made in conjunction with Google, the proceeds from this ice cream go to Google’s ONE campaign, which aids the fight against extreme poverty and preventable diseases glob­ally. 
10. Chubby Hubby 
And to top off this extensive list of flavors, guaranteed to have a flavor for everyone, comes the complex concoction of vanilla malt ice cream, rip­pled with fudge and peanut but­ter and loaded with fudge-cov­ered peanut-butter filled pret­zels. This flavor was invented with the help of some fans back in 1988, and has stuck around ever since. Perfect for the pret­zel-lover and the peanut butter-lover alike! 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu@nd.edu 


page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Friday, February 12, 2010 
NFL 

Rams to have new owner 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS — Rumors that the St. Louis Rams were being sold have been rampant the past cou­ple of years, raising concerns that the franchise would end its recent sad-sack run with a move out of town. 
The Rams announced Thursday that its majority owners have indeed agreed to sell their stake, but to a potential buyer within driving distance — and one who doesn’t want to relocate the once-proud franchise. 
If approved by a 75 percent vote of NFL owners, Chip Rosenbloom and Lucia Rodriguez, the children of the late Rams owner Georgia Frontiere, will sell their 60 percent stake to Shahid Khan, the 55-year-old president of an auto parts manu­facturer, Flex-N-Gate, in Urbana, Ill. 
“Today is a tremendously excit­ing day, I think, for the organiza­tion,” said Kevin Demoff, Rams executive vice president of foot­ball operations and chief operat­ing officer. “Whether or not the sale to a prospective buyer goes through I think it reaffirms to everybody the commitment this club has to St. Louis and our belief in this marketplace.” 
Demoff said he wasn’t aware whether an agreement had been submitted to the NFL. He said the sale could be completed as early as May. 
Kitty Ratcliffe, the head of the St. Louis Convention & Visitors Commission, applauded the Khan announcement. 
“I thought that was very good news,” she said. “It’s someone from the general area, is a fan of the team, has been in the dome and obviously has ties to the area.” 
Forbes magazine recently esti­mated the Rams franchise has a value of $913 million, 25th out of 32 teams, though some experts have said a more realistic sale price will be closer to $750 mil­lion. The sale was first reported by the Web site for the St. Louis Post-Dispatch. 
Stan Kroenke, a billionaire from Columbia, Mo., owns the remaining 40 percent of the fran­chise as well as the NBA’s Denver Nuggets, the NHL’s Colorado Avalanche, Major League Soccer’s Colorado Rapids plus a large stake in the Arsenal soccer club. 
Kroenke has 60 days to decide what to do with his stake in the franchise. He could choose to sell or make a bid to become the sole owner, although such a bid would be complicated by the NFL’s restriction of cross-ownership. A spokesman for Kroenke did not respond to an e-mail from The Associated Press. 
“I believe at the end of the 60 days you’ll know who is buying what percentage of the club, if they’re actually moving forward on the sale,” Demoff said. 

During the process, Demoff said the Rams were under no financial constraints. 
“We’re excited to go into free agency and to the draft, and find ways to improve this team,” Demoff said. 
The sale of the Rams has been expected since Frontiere’s death in January 2008. Her children are both involved in other interests and neither has ties to St. Louis. 
A group headed by St. Louis Blues owner Dave Checketts was also interested in buying the Rams. Conservative radio talk show host Rush Limbaugh was initially part of the Checketts group but was dropped in October after adverse publicity about his involvement. 
The sale has raised concerns in St. Louis, which lost the Cardinals franchise after the 1987 season when Bill Bidwill moved the fran­chise to Arizona. Several games last season were not sold out, though that was partly due to the on-field performance — at 1-15, the Rams had the worst record in the league. 
Khan did not return calls to his home or company by The Associated Press. 
According to federal court records in Illinois, the Internal Revenue Service has accused Khan and his wife, Ann, of improperly sheltering $250 mil­lion in income between 1999 and 2003, reducing their taxes by $85 million. In an interview with The (Champaign) News-Gazette in early 2009, Shahid Khan said the couple paid the IRS $68 million to settle the dispute, but insisted he’d done nothing wrong. 
“There isn’t a hint of a criminal issue here,” Khan told the news­paper, saying he planned to try to get the money back through liti­gation. It wasn’t clear whether he’s taken legal steps since then to recover the money and an IRS spokesman declined comment Thursday. 
Forbes last year ranked Flex-N-Gate as the 229th largest private company in the U.S., with an esti­mated $2.14 billion in annual rev­enue. The company says on its Web site that it has more than 9,500 employees at plants and other facilities in the U.S., Canada, Mexico, Argentina and Spain. 
St. Louis was without an NFL team from 1988-94. 
The NFL passed over St. Louis for the smaller Jacksonville, Fla., market when it awarded an expansion team in 1993. Two years later, civic leaders con­vinced Frontiere, a St. Louis native, to move the team from Los Angeles, the nation’s second-largest market, back to her hometown. 
The Rams within a few years put together a powerhouse team that won a Super Bowl a decade ago behind Kurt Warner and the rest of the “Greatest Show on Turf.” But lately, the Rams have been one of the NFL’s worst teams, going 6-42 from 2007-09. 
A loophole in the Rams’ lease allows them to move after the 2014 season if the Edward Jones Dome is not deemed among the top quarter of all NFL stadiums by various measurements. The dome is fast becoming one of the league’s older venues, and getting it into the top quarter seems unlikely. 
OLYMPICS 
Vonn encouraged by right shin’s recovery 
Associated Press 
WHISTLER, British Columbia — Each of Thursday’s steps was seen as a sign that, yes, Lindsey Vonn might very well compete in five Olympic races, after all, and might be able to think once again about medals, not medicine. 
Painkillers and a Novocaine-like numbing cream for the American’s badly bruised right shin? They seemed to dull the aching. 
Wearing ski boots, some­thing painful and depressing every time she tried it last week? She yanked them on and did a course inspection. 
Actually skiing down a hill for the first time since getting injured Feb. 2, albeit only in a free run and not on the official course? It hurt, sure, but was the most exciting step of all, one that convinced Vonn she was ready to take part in the opening women’s Olympic downhill training session later Thursday. 
Alas, that practice wound up being called off after only two racers because of thick fog and low visibility — yet even that development was deemed encouraging by the group known as the Vonntourage. 
“I was happy to be back on snow today,” said Vonn, who lives and trains in Vail, Colo. “My shin was still very painful, but I feel like the injury is finally progressing a bit. I am always disappointed when a training run is canceled, but in this situation I definitely wel­come the extra day to heal.” 
Indeed, her husband, Thomas, called the cancella­tion “fantastic.” 
“It’s not like all her competi­tors are getting multiple runs down the course. Nobody got to ski it, really, today,” said Thomas Vonn, who serves as a coach and chief adviser to his wife. “So it’s another day of healing, and hopefully tomor­row she feels even better.” 
He said she still aims to race in all five women’s Alpine events, which certainly would be a relief to the U.S. Ski Team, U.S. Olympic Committee and her fans — to say nothing of NBC and her various spon­sors. 
“She’s never taken any races off the table. It’s going to be a day to day: If she can do it, she’s going to do it,” Thomas Vonn said. “But she’s not pulling out of anything at this point, and it’s looking better than it was yesterday.” 
U.S. Ski Team women’s coach Jim Tracy was as opti­mistic as anyone. 
He knows full well her histo­ry of brushing aside injuries and pain — whether it was making the quick transition from hospital bed to starting gate after a horrific crash in downhill training at the 2006 Turin Olympics, or managing not to miss a single race after badly bruising her arm in December. 
Said Tracy of his team’s most famous member: “She’ll be ready.” 
Before her injury became known Wednesday, Vonn was widely considered a candidate to win perhaps three or four medals — including an over­whelming favorite to win golds in the downhill and super-G — and become the breakout star of the Vancouver Games. 
The first women’s race of the Olympics, the super-com­bined, is scheduled for Sunday, and the outlook for Vonn evolved quite a bit in the 24 hours since the two-time World Cup overall champion raised the possibility of not being able to compete at all. 
“She had a smile today,” Thomas Vonn said. “It’s very encouraging. Like, it seems like it’s kind of turning a cor­ner, based off today.” 
Lindsey Vonn has been try­ing all manner of measures to speed the healing process since she banged her boot against her right leg in a headfirst tumble earlier this month during pre-Olympic training in Austria. She tried things as basic as stretching. She tried laser therapy. She even tried wrapping her leg with an Austrian curd cheese to bring down the swelling. 
On Thursday, she raised the bar, writing on her Twitter feed in the morning that she “took a bunch” of painkillers and “numbed my shin with some creams.” 
Later in the day, Vonn post­ed on Facebook: “The pain level has gone down from a sharp debilitating pain to something that I feel I may be able to grit my teeth through.” 
U.S. Ski Team doctor Bill Sterett’s assessment? “Everything,” he said, “seems to be resolving.” 
Although a physical thera­pist recommended changing boots, possibly by cushioning where the top of the equip­ment meets the bruise, Thomas Vonn said they decid­ed against that, lest it affect her performance. 

CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY?  2 apartments available near down- Happy Valentine’s Day, Shivani.  
PERSONAL  Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has  FOR SALE  FOR RENT  town SB 129 N. St. Louis Blvd (between Jefferson St. &amp;  Surprised? ———————————————  
many resources in place to assist  ———————————————  Colfax St.) Both apartments 1000  Devlin, it looks like the trip to Paris  
you.  2BR/2BA  SF no deposit required $350.00 per  has been cancelled, at least with  
person per month includes utilities  this friend. Maybe with my other,  
If you or someone you care about  If you or someone you love needs  Finsh Bsmnt  upstairs apartment 2/3 bedroom  navel friend.  
has been sexually assaulted, we  confidential support or assistance,  Four condos for sale under  2 Car GA  kitchen bath and livingroom  ———————————————  
can help.  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819  $150,000.  $375.00 per month per person  “I’m honestly not sure what’s worse,  
or Ann Firth at 1-2685.  1 mile to campus  includes utilities downstairs apart- being from Texas or being from  
For more information, visit Notre  Steps to Notre Dame.  ment 2 bedroom kitchen bath livin- Jersey.”  
Dame's website:  For more information, visit ND's  $575/month  groom diningroom and laundry  ———————————————  
web site:  Cell 574-215-7785  room.  “Hey Mr. Scott, what’cha gonna do,  
http://realst8.com/4-condos or call  ———————————————  References and lease required  what’cha gonna do to make our  
http.csap.nd.edu  http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu  574-217-4770  gradrentals.viewwork.com  Please call 574-274-2110  dreams come true?”  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————­ ———————————————  ———————————————­ ———————————————  

Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Friday, February 12, 2010 
page 13 

NCAA Division I Baseball Preseason NCWBA Poll 
team previous 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Calhoun returns to Huskies after absence 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 Texas LSU Virginia Cal State Fullerton Rice Florida State UC Irvine Arizona State Georgia Tech Florida TCU Miami (FL) North Carolina Clemson Arkansas East Carolina Coastal Carolina Oregon State Louisville Mississippi South Carolina Southern Miss Ohio State San Diego Oklahoma 
2 1 6 7 9 10 13 3 19 14 11 20 4 15 5 16 21 24 17 12 23 8 NR NR 18 

NCAA Division I Softball Preseason NFCA Poll 
team  previous  
1  Washington  1  
2  Alabama  3  
3  Florida  2  
4  Michigan  6  
5  Arizona State  5  
6  Arizona  7  
7  Georgia  4  
8  UCLA  9  
9  Missouri  8  
10  Stanford  10  
11  Oklahoma  16  
12  California  11  
13  Georgia Tech  13  
14  Ohio State  12  
15  Northwestern  18  
16  Tennessee  20  
17  Baylor  15  
18  LSU  19  
19  North Carolina  17  
20  Massachusetts  14  
21  DePaul  23  
22  Louisville  NR  
23  Florida State  22  
24  Louisiana Lafayette  25  
25  Fresno State  NR  

Associated Press 
STORRS, Conn. — UConn coach Jim Calhoun appears on the mend. The Hall of Famer has to hope his return can sal­vage an NCAA tourna ­ment bid for the ailing Huskies. 
Calhoun returned to his coaching duties Thursday after a medical leave of more than three weeks forced him to miss seven games. He has no restric­tions on what he can do and will be on the bench for Saturday’s game against Cincinnati. 
“I both felt that the time away was important for my personal and profes­sional well-being and that I am ready to move ahead from this point at full speed,” Calhoun said. 
Calhoun returns to a team that needs a siz ­zling, upset-heavy win­ning streak to sniff the NCAA tournament. The Huskies (14-10, 4-7 Big East) have sunk to the bottom half of the confer­ence standings a year after a No. 1 seed and a Final Four berth. 
UConn’s top moment came Jan. 23 when asso­ciate head coach George Blaney led the Huskies to an upset of then-No. 1 Texas. But the Huskies threw away their momen­tum like one of their 352 turnovers this season when they lost the next game at Providence — and that started the sec­ond of their three-game losing streaks this sea­son. UConn ended the skid by eking out a seven-point win Saturday against lowly DePaul (1 win in the Big East) and lost at No. 2 Syracuse 72­67 on Wednesday night. 
“We still think we’re pretty good,” Blaney said. “We still think we can be a factor in every game we play in.” 
UConn has gone 3-4 in Calhoun’s absence. School 
officials have not said what was ailing Calhoun, but said it had nothing to do with his three bouts with cancer and was not related to his heart. 
The losing wasn’t the only thing that took some getting used to in Storrs, a bucolic college town, located amid the dairy farms of northeastern Connecticut. UConn games without Calhoun, as New England as a bowl 
of clam chowder, have been way too quiet. Gone has been the stomping, the cussing, the barking at officials. 
Longtime followers of the program described the 67-year-old Calhoun as more down than angry after recent losses. He never knew what kind of performance he’d get out of the erratic Huskies and almost seemed resigned to that fate. 
IN BRIEF 
Glavine joins Braves as 
assistant to Schuerholz 
ATLANTA — Tom Glavine made his retirement official on Thursday when he returned to the Atlanta Braves in a loosely defined new role. 
Glavine was hired as special assis­tant to Braves president John Schuerholz, and the two stood together before reporters for the first time since Glavine’s unexpected release last summer 
The two-time NL Cy Young Award winner was bitter when the Braves let him go, but he said Thursday that any anger at Schuerholz and general manager Frank Wren has dissipated. 
“I’m happy and comfortable with where we are as far as that is all concerned,” Glavine said. “I talked with Frank, so that is all behind us. If I didn’t feel I could work with Frank or work with John, I wouldn’t be here.” 
Linebacker Antonio Pierce 
released by Giants 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — One of the worst defensive seasons in New York Giants history claimed another victim — middle linebacker Antonio Pierce. 
The Giants on Thursday released the 31-year-old veteran who quarterbacked the defense for the past five years in a tenure that included four trips to the playoffs and a Super Bowl victory over the previously undefeated New England Patriots in February 2008. 
Pierce’s status with the team was put into question this season when he suf­fered a neck injury, forcing him to miss the final seven games of the season, a year in which the Giants surrendered 427 points. 
Defensive coordinator Bill Sheridan and defensive line coach Mike Waufle were fired after the season and Pierce, who signed a $26 million contract as a free agent in 2005, was let go a month later. 
Wallace recalls long road 
to All Star Game 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. — Rick Adelman remembers drafting a raw, inexperienced 18-year-old from Alabama in 2001 while he was coaching the Sacramento Kings. 
Adelman wasn’t sure what to do with Gerald Wallace. 
“He played one year of college and he pretty much played zone his whole career,” said Adelman, now coach of the Houston Rockets. “He just ran and dunked.” 
On Thursday, a little less than nine years later, Wallace boarded a plane for Dallas as the first All-Star in Charlotte Bobcats history. It’s the culmination of a rocky road from unhappy college kid to Sacramento benchwarmer to expansion draft pick to a player who has finally combined his freakish athletic abil­ity with a well-rounded game. 



around the dial 
NCAA Men’s Basketball 
West Virginia at Pittsburgh 9 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 

All-Star Rookie Challenge 9 p.m., TNT 
page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, February 12, 2010 
OLYMPICS 

Uncertainty dominates Vancouver Olympics 
Associated Press 
VANCOUVER, British Columbia — The XXI Olympic Winter Games begin Friday, and that’s about the only thing certain about them. 
The star is hurting, and there’s more snow in Manhattan than on some of the mountains here. 
Oh, and there could be two Olympic flames. 
Back in Canada for the first time since 1988 in Calgary, the games open with the Olympics’ first-ever indoor opening cere­mony. 
Organizers have kept a tight lid on details, and that’s fitting for an Olympics full of ques­tions. 
Will the potential headline act, American skier Lindsey Vonn, overcome a shin injury and vie for multiple medals? Will the snowboard/freestyle skiing venue — already needing emergency snow imports — survive the latest bout of inclement weather? Will Canada’s home team thrive or wilt under the pressure of its bold ambition to dominate the games? 
One burning question, at least, will be answered Friday night when the opening cere­monies end with the lighting of the Olympic cauldron. For days, Canadians have been speculat­ing and debating whether the honor should go to hockey leg­end Wayne Gretzky, the great­est player ever in Canada’s most cherished sport, or some lesser-known, inspirational fig­ure. 
The flame itself finally arrived in Vancouver Thursday evening after a 106-day torch relay that passed through more than 1,000 communities in every corner of Canada over a nearly 45,000-kilometer (28,000-mile) route. Vancouverites waved flags, banged tambourines and rang cowbells to welcome the flame at City Hall. 
On Friday, about 55,000 spec­tators will pack into BC Place Stadium for the opening, under the largest air-supported dome in North America. That roof may be a blessing — the fore­cast predicts showers during the ceremony and through the weekend, diminishing the coast-and-mountain vistas that can be breathtaking on a clear day. 
Compounding the weather problems was uncertainty over whether Vonn will be able to compete. Anything dimming her medal hopes could further damage prospects for NBC, the 
U.S. broadcaster, which already expects to lose millions on the Olympics. 
Aided by painkillers, Vonn tested her bruised right shin Thursday, skiing for the first time since her injury last week. She came away encouraged about her Olympic prospects. 
Even aside from the rain and Vonn’s setback, the games’ organizers had a tough act to follow — staging an opening ceremony just 18 months after the spectacular start of the Beijing Summer Olympics, watched by a couple of billion people worldwide as China strode onto the global stage. 
The Vancouver Organizing Committee opted for narrower goals, saying its foremost prior­ity was to unite Canadians in support of the games and the national team. Canada has shed its reputation for modesty, publicly proclaimed its ambi­tion to win the most medals, and invested $117 million in an Own The Podium program to make first place a realistic pos­sibility by the time the games end Feb. 28. 
Canada finished third four years ago in Turin, behind Germany and the United States. 
“We have a team that is con­fident,” said VANOC’s CEO, John Furlong. “The country is starving for success.” 
For many Canadians, success will be incomplete unless it includes a gold medal for the men’s hockey team. 
And that circles back to Gretzky. He played for Canada in the 1998 Olympics, which ended with a disappointing loss in the bronze medal game, and was executive director of the gold-medal winning team in 2002. 
Gretzky has evaded questions about any possible role in the opening ceremony, and he’s got some competition in terms of sentimental favorites whom some Canadians would like to see light the cauldron. 
One is Betty Fox, the mother of national hero Terry Fox, who lost a leg to cancer at age 18, then attempted a cross country Marathon of Hope in 1980. He cut short the run after hobbling 5,070 kilometers (3,150 miles) with an artificial leg, and died of lung cancer in 1981 at age 22 — inspiring annual Terry Fox runs which have raised $500 million for cancer research. 
Another oft-mentioned candi­date for the honor is Rick Hansen, a paraplegic athlete who has won numerous wheel­chair marathons and wheeled through parts of four conti­nents to raise money for research into spinal cord injuries. 
There’s also been avid specu­lation — based partly on TV footage and Internet-posted photographs — that two caul­drons might be lit, one inside BC Place Stadium and one in a plaza overlooking the down­town waterfront. And social media are abuzz with reports, based on the dress rehearsal, of some of the performers expected to appear — among them Bryan Adams, Nelly Furtado, Sarah McLachlan and 
k.d. lang. 
As the ceremonies begin, the first big protest of the games is planned Friday outside the sta­dium by an informal coalition of activists with a long list of grievances. 
Even before the opening cere­monies, the sports phase of the games begins Friday afternoon with ski jumping qualifications at Whistler, where fog, snow and rain have disrupted some of the Alpine ski training runs. 
The Vancouver Sun took the unusual step of carrying a col­umn on its front page this week, exhorting its readers to overlook Olympic inconvenienc­es and be gracious hosts. 
“The party’s on,” wrote columnist Stephen Hume. “All that stands in the way of a good time is a petty decision not to have one.” 
OLYMPICS 
30 athletes caught doping 
Associated Press 
VANCOUVER, British Columbia — With more than 30 athletes already prevented from competing in Vancouver, World Anti-Doping Agency president John Fahey predicts cheats are more likely than ever to be caught out at these Olympics. 
Fahey confirmed Thursday that more than 30 athletes had been excluded for breaking anti-doping rules in recent months, with the cases includ­ing a mixture of positive sam­ples and failure to comply with testing protocols. 
Only hours after Fahey’s news conference and reports emerging from Russia that all Vancouver-bound athletes had undergone drug testing, the International Olympic Committee announced the first doping violation of the games: Russian hockey player Svetlana Terenteva, who was reprimanded but escaped a ban after testing positive for a “light stimulant.” 
The substance — tuamino­heptane — is contained in pre­scription cold medication and is banned during competition but not out of competition. 
Terenteva, a 26-year-old for­ward who has played in four world championships, said she used the drug Rhinofluimucil in Russia to treat a head cold last month and stopped using the medication when she arrived in Vancouver on Feb. 3, a day before the Olympic drug-testing program began. Evidence of the stimulant appeared in a doping control three days later, on Saturday. 
Fahey refused to give details of the more than 30 athletes who had been excluded from Vancouver, but noted that more than 70 athletes were prevented from competing at the Beijing Olympics for violat­ing anti-doping rules in the similar period leading into the 2008 Summer Games. 
He said it was becoming more and more difficult for drug cheats to avoid detection. 
“Athletes who seek to cheat at these games, it’s more likely they’ll be caught than in any other games in our history,” Fahey said. “The approach that’s been taken around the world by national Olympic committees and anti-doping agencies (is) to ensure that they are not going to be embarrassed by having cheats represent their nation. 
“It’s good. It’s weeding out the cheats.” 
Fahey said the cases were spread across more than one sport and one country. 
“I don’t try to put too much of an emphasis on how good, or how small the number is,” he said. “Either way, it indi­cates we’re effective. It’s a number I don’t think you can ignore. That’s why I say it’s significant.” 
IOC medical commission chairman Arne Ljungqvist said the cases WADA had highlight­ed must have come from regu­lar doping programs of the international sports federa­tions. 
“My interpretation is they are not suddenly 30 new cases prevented from coming here, but an accumulation over time,” Ljungqvist told the IOC general assembly on Thursday. “I don’t know exactly what they are. They are routine cases that have been accumu­lated over the months leading up to the games. We have read some of them in the newspa­pers fairly recently.” 


Friday, February 12, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
OLYMPICS 

White prepares new trick 
Associated Press 
VANCOUVER, British Columbia — Shaun White dropped his iPhone onto the table as David Bowie’s “Young Americans” blasted out of the tiny speakers. 
Then the world’s most famous snowboarder took off his blue Team USA jacket and, with his teammates watching, shimmied over to the refresh­ment table in the cramped green room. 
They couldn’t help but laugh as the 23-year-old with the iconic red hair finished his impromptu dance while mak­ing a cup of tea before meeting the press Thursday. It’s not often White lets loose, particu­larly with the guys he spends most of the year trying to beat. 
Being the best in the world is a sometimes lonely experience for White, who has built an empire since winning gold in the halfpipe at Turin four years ago and becoming known as the Flying Tomato. 
He often trains by himself in the Colorado mountains, on a halfpipe built by one of his sponsors. He usually stays by himself during regular compe­titions, and will spend the next few days in a separate house from his teammates to grab a few moments of sanity before the games begin. 
“I do things very differently, even where sometimes I feel like everybody is at the pipe and there’s so much going on and it’s really distracting and it’s really tough to focus,” White said. 
Nonetheless, White seems at ease in the spotlight. While some of his teammates fiddled with their microphones in front of the mass of reporters, White riffed on everything from his newest trick to the state of the sport. 

He says he’s just a normal guy who worries about girls and his wardrobe, just like his teammates. Maybe, but he’s the only member of the team who had his own public-rela­tions representative at his side Thursday. And he’s the only one with the household nick­name. 
Though White like to clarify something. The Flying Tomato is so 2006. He’s got a new moniker — “Animal” — a ref­erence to the wild-haired Muppets character who thrash­es away on the drums. Considering the way White flips, spins and twists his way down the halfpipe, there’s more than a passing resem­blance. 
“The Animal has become my thing here,” he said. 
Yet he’s making an impact beyond catchy nicknames, merchandising and gold medals. He’s also helping pull the sport into the future, thanks to his newest trick, which he calls the Double McTwist 1260. 
White has called it “my best friend and worst enemy,” and the relationship has been rocky since he started working on the maneuver, which requires him to flip twice while twisting three and a half times. 
He chipped a bone in his ankle last spring, then wowed crowds in Park City, Utah, last month when he nailed it in competition for the first time. A week later at the X Games, he smacked his face on the icy pipe while trying to nail it in practice, then stepped back onto the pipe the next day and drilled it to take gold. 
Though he’d probably be a heavy medal favorite even without it, White feels it’s important for the sport to show the world his signature move despite the danger. 
“I feel confident with that trick,” he said. “It’s such an amazing thing that I feel like somewhat disappointed if I did-n’t keep it in the run.” 
It’s a trick nobody else can do and one he honed in seclusion 
— a method that seems foreign to his teammates, who include Greg Bretz, Scotty Lago and Louie Vito. 
“I don’t share that same the­ory as Shaun, but I think that’s what separates him and maybe makes him so good,” Lago said. 
The isolation is nothing new. White is so focused on winning he admits he puts his competi­tors at a distance. On Thursday, he spent 30 minutes before the news conference sit­ting outside the green room fiddling with his phone while his teammates hung out inside. He eventually made his way in and cut a few jokes. 
White is trying to embrace the idea of being on a team, at least until they hit the halfpipe Feb. 17. White spent Wednesday night in the Olympic Village with his team­mates, collecting pins from for­eign athletes and sticking them on his credential lanyard. He had the option of moving out Thursday, but planned to stay one more night. 


USA BASKETBALL 
James, Bryant to lead 
U.S. team through 2012 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — LeBron James, Dwyane Wade, Kobe Bryant and most of the reign­ing Olympic gold medalists could be back in U.S. uni­forms this summer. 
If not, USA Basketball thinks it has plenty of players who can replace them. 
The Americans announced 27 players Wednesday for the national team pool that will be used to select the rosters for this summer’s world championships and the 2012 Olympics in London. 
It features nine players who stood atop the medals plat­form in Beijing and a number 
of emerging young stars ready for their chance. 
“The pool is better than the one we had in the last quad­rant and the interest level is higher, and so we feel like we’re moving in the right direction,” U.S. coach Mike Krzyzewski said on a confer­ence call, hours before he led his Duke team against rival North Carolina. 
Also returning from the 2008 team that ended the Americans’ eight-year gold medal drought in major com­petitions are: Chris Bosh, Chris Paul, Dwight Howard, Carmelo Anthony, Deron Williams and Carlos Boozer. 
All of the returning players previously told USA Basketball chairman Jerry Colangelo they were interest­ed in coming back after spending all or parts of three years playing for the team that returned the United States to the top of interna­tional basket-
The only players not return­ing from the team that won gold in Beijing are Jason Kidd, who previously said he was retiring from internation­al competition with a perfect record, and Michael Redd and Tayshaun Prince, who have battled injuries this season. 
The remainder of the roster includes young stars such as Kevin Durant — who nearly made the team that played in the 2007 Olympic qualifier and is considered a lock for this year ’s — and Derrick Rose. Also returning to the national team are Chauncey Billups and Amare Stoudemire, who played on the U.S. team three years ago. 
Krzyzewski and assistants Jim Boeheim, Mike D’Antoni and Nate McMillan already committed to returning last summer. 
Stoudemire is perhaps the biggest surprise on the roster. The All-Star forward from Phoenix basically talked him­self off the 2008 Olympic team by publicly waffling about his desire to play at the end of the NBA season. 
“There was a time when he was really not going to be considered,” Colangelo said. “Had he not really reached out through his own efforts personally and his agent about his extreme desire to be part of it, he would not have been part of it. As a result of his expression of great interest, we reconsid­ered and he is now part of the pool.” 
Billups backed up Kidd on 
the 2007 team 
that went unde­
feated in Las 
ball.  “The pool is better  Ve g a s ,  b u t  h e  
“ T h e  r e a s o n  than the one we had  w i t h d r e w  t h e  
they’re back is they’re deserv­ in the last quadrant.”  n e x t y e a r f o r family reasons.  
i n g  o f  b e i n g  H e  m a y  n o t  
b a c k , ” Colangelo said.  Mike Krzyzewski U.S. coach  have made the f i n a l 1 2 -m a n  

James, Wade and Bosh are questionable to actually play this summer. All three can become free agents and have said their contract situations are their first pri­ority. 
“I really think it’s kind of early, but I think guys still want to play,” Anthony said. “Of course we’ll have that conversation in the near future, but they’ve got to take care of what they’ve got to take care of first, which is their contracts and things like that.” 
Paul is currently sidelined after knee surgery and Bryant is battling a number of injuries, so Colangelo knows he’s not going to get all of his top choices. However, he isn ’t worried about that now, saying those decisions can wait until the team readies for its minicamp in July. 
“Everything is a matter of waiting. Everyone’s personal situation we’re waiting for next summer. There’s nothing but speculation between now and then,” Colangelo said. “That’s why injuries and fam­ily issues and free agency, all of these things play a role. That’s why you need a pool as strong as we had and that’s why we’re happy about it.” 
roster anyway, 
since Paul was 
back from an injury that sidelined him the previous summer. 
Lakers forward Lamar Odom, who played on the 2004 Olympic team, also was chosen Wednesday. The rest 
of the players are almost entirely young players. 
The roster includes: Minnesota’s Al Jefferson and Kevin Love; Rudy Gay and 
O.J. Mayo of Memphis; Philadelphia’s Andre Iguodala; Boston’s Kendrick Perkins; Indiana’s Danny Granger; New York’s David Lee; New Jersey center Brook Lopez; Oklahoma City guard Russell Westbrook; Portland’s LaMarcus Aldridge; Charlotte’s Gerald Wallace; and Clippers guard Eric Gordon. 
The Americans will choose a group from the roster to take part in their minicamp in Las Vegas in July. They are expected to play an exhibition game in New York before heading to Turkey for the world championships, which they haven’t won since 1994. 
Colangelo said Lakers cen­ter Andrew Bynum and Celtics point guard Rajon Rondo were among the only players who were asked to participate but declined. 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, February 12, 2010 
OLYMPICS 

Whistler track is fast, but concerns abound 
Associated Press 
WHISTLER, British Columbia 
— The signature curve, the unlucky 13th, is nicknamed “50­50” — the odds of escaping its icy clutches without accident. 
Curve No. 11 is known as “Shiver,” a spine-tingling bend that has made first-time visitors tremble in fear. 
Sinisterly snaking its way down beautiful Blackcomb Mountain, the 16-turn Whistler Sliding Center track, which will host the bobsled, luge and skeleton competitions during the Vancouver Games, has already developed a nasty repu­tation before making its Olympic debut. 
It’s fast. It’s furious. It’s fright­ening. 
“It’s a great ride, for sure,” said U.S. luger Erin Hamlin, the American team’s top medal hope. “I like the challenge, so that makes it interesting and it feels that much better when you can make it down.” 
That’s if you make it down. 
One of only 16 international sliding tracks, the one overlook­ing pretty-as-a-postcard Whistler is the world’s fastest, a frozen superspeedway where sliders experience G-forces comparable to those encoun­tered by military jet pilots. 
Amateurs need not apply. Beginning with a near-vertical drop, this is a thrill-or-spill ride where the slightest mistake can send a luger hurtling headfirst into a wall, upend the bobsled and snap a skeleton racer’s bones like twigs. 
The perils of the track were all too clear Thursday when Romanian luger Violeta Stramaturaru was knocked unconscious after slamming into several walls during a training run. She was strapped to a backboard and taken to an onsite medical facility, and a Romanian team official indicat­ed that her injury was not seri­ous. 
American Megan Sweeney also crashed in her first training run Thursday, but walked away unharmed, other than a slightly torn race suit. And Australian racer Hannah Campbell-Pegg, who was wobbly during a train­ing run and braced for a crash, questioned whether the light-ning-fast track is safe enough. 
“I think they are pushing it a little too much,” Campbell-Pegg said. “To what extent are we just little lemmings that they just throw down a track and we’re crash-test dummies? I mean, this is our lives and we enjoy doing this sport … but then again, people haven’t had the runs here. The Canadians are doing fine and they’ve had a lot of runs. I still think it’s a safer track than Torino.” 
A.J. Rosen, Britain’s only luge competitor, has been chewed up and spit out by the snarling Whistler monster. During a training run in October, Rosen dislocated his hip and suffered nerve damage in a wreck. 
“The actual crash wasn’t that bad, but you are going at such speeds that sliding down is where I got hurt,” he said. “As you’re coming to the bottom, this track takes your breath away. It’s really fast and there is nothing really to compare it to.” 
U.S. luger Tony Benshoof will never forget his first trip down Whistler’s blinding gamut of lefts, rights, hairpins and straightaways. It was if he was transported back in time. 
“I felt like I was in a sped up black-and-white movie,” the three-time Olympian said. “I was very, very surprised by the speed. It took some practice to slow everything down in your head. Ideally in luge, you want to slow everything down, and the best sliders are able to do that well. 
“It took me a while in Whistler, maybe 10 or 12 runs before I could see the laces on the baseball, so to speak. It’s a handful.” 
Unlike many tracks in Europe, this one has wider, sweeping turns at the top, allowing sliders to build up early momentum and breakneck speed. By the time the men’s lugers reach the third curve called “Wedge,” they’re already approaching nearly breakneck speeds and there’s no exit ramp. 
While the speed element makes for exciting racing and will keep spectators holding their breath, there have also been questions raised about the track’s safety. However, organiz­ers insist every precaution has been taken to minimize the dan­ger for athletes. 
“Crashes are definitely part of the sport, definitely part of a new facility the first few years a track is open especially until coaches understand how to coach their athletes through particular corners on this track,” said Craig Lehto, the sliding center’s director. “On this track, we are prepared for any type of crash as it is very technically demanding and the conditions can change so quick­ly on this mountain which in turn changes the ice conditions very quickly. 
“Even pilots who might be used to sliding down this track might not be used to sliding on particular weather conditions at any given time.” 
Lehto said doctors will be on site along with three ambu­lances and a helicopter pad in case any athlete needs to be evacuated. 
SMC SWIMMING 
Belles prepare for MIAAs 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
The Belles’ season may not have included quite as many team wins as they would have liked, but it certainly contained an array of indi­vidual accomplishments. This weekend, all of their hard work will be tested one last time for the MIAA Championships. 
The past week and a half has consisted of tapering in preparation for the big weekend. 
“We have been training hard since September; now we are just doing easy work­outs and fast swimming to prepare our muscles for the meet, ” freshman Ellie Watson said. 
The team as a whole is looking to turn out fast races by as many swimmers as possible during the prelimi­naries, which begin each day at 10 a.m. From there, the top swimmers will compete at night in the finals, which begin at 6 p.m. 
Five individual swimmers are especially looking for top finishes in order to maintain their successful status dur­ing the regular season. Freshmen Katie Griffin, Watson, Caila Poythress and Genevieve Spittler, along with senior Sara Niemann all hold a top-15 finish in at least one event in the con­ference. 
Griffin is 15th in the 50­yard freestyle and 100 freestyle, 11th in the 200 freestyle, sixth in the 100 backstroke and 100 butterfly and 11th in the 200 back­stroke. Watson’s finishes include fifth in the 500 freestyle and seventh in the 1650 freestyle and 400 indi­vidual medley. Poythress has the 13th-best time in the 200 backstroke, Spittler the fifth in the 200 butterfly and Niemann the 14th in the 1650 freestyle. The five relay teams all have a top-five finish under their belt as well. 
Now it is time for accom­plishments beyond the regu­lar season. 
“We’ve been enjoying the down time we have together on deck. This weekend, we hope everyone has fast races during prelims to make it back for a second swim and score some points for the Belles,” Poythress said. 
The weekend definitely offers great possibilities for many Belles. They are look­ing not only to come out on top, but even to shatter some school records on their way. 
The team travels to Calvin College in Grand Rapids, Mich. for meets all day Thursday through Saturday. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Rally falls just short in close loss 
By TIMOTHY SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s fell in a close, hard fought battle to Wheaton 75-74 in an impor­tant game as the season begins to draw to a close. 
Senior forward Anna Kammrath scored four points in the final minute of the game to keep the Belles close. Kammrath attempted a free throw with under five seconds to play and hit the first to pull within one 75-74 but missed the second shot. Freshman guard Annie Doyle’s rebound set up soph­omore guard Patsy Mahoney with a 3-point attempt as time expired but the shot fell short. 
The Belles, despite the loss, played well and hung with the Thunder for most of the game. Saint Mary’s start­ed out the game with a 20­10 lead. The Thunder stormed back however and retook the lead 21-20. 
Saint Mary’s had to battle back for most of the game after the early lead fell out of their grasp. As the Belles surged back and cut the lead to a small margin, the Thunder responded and re­established a comfortable lead. 
Despite the outcome of the game, Saint Mary’s showed that they could play down the stretch of a game, mak­ing solid plays during the final minutes of the game. A few crucial rebounds and baskets kept the Belles in the game within the final two minutes. 
Saint Mary’s distributed the ball well tonight as four players scored in double-digits. Kammrath led all scorers and also recorded her sixth double-double of the season with 21 points and 13 rebounds. Sophomore forward Kelley Murphy added 18 points, Mahoney scored 15 and sophomore forward Jessica Centa added 14 points as well. 
Saint Mary’s will move on from this tough loss and focus on the rest of the sea­son that lies ahead. 
The Belles will travel to Hope on Saturday to take on the Flying Dutch at 3 p.m. 
Contact Timothy Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 


Friday, February 12, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
DePaul 
continued from page 20 
A victory would be the ideal ending to complete Sunday’s ceremony, but to do so Notre Dame (22-1, 9-1 Big East) will have to stay focused against a DePaul team that has tradition­ally caused problems for the Irish. 
“They’re always a dangerous team,” McGraw said. “It’s always a huge rivalry between us and DePaul. We’ve had some great games over the years, and it’s always been a battle for us.” 
Currently ranked ninth in the conference standings, the Blue Demons (16-9, 5-6) are coming off a blowout loss to Connecticut last Wednesday. DePaul is led by junior Sam Quigley, an explosive point guard whose 16.6 points and 4.9 assists per game are good enough for top-10 in the conference. Quigley’s numbers are even more impressive con­sidering she is averaging 40.2 minutes per game, the most in the conference. 
“She is having a great year,” McGraw said. She’s playing real­ly well, playing a lot of minutes for them. I don’t think she ever comes out. Our goal defensively is just try to keep the pressure on her.” 
But the Blue Devils are hardly one-dimensional. Anchored by freshman Katherine Harry and sophomore Keisha Hampton, DePaul has developed an effec­tive post game to complement its perimeter offense. 
“They’re big,” McGraw said. “They’ve got some really good players inside. They’ve got a back line that could go 6-1, 6-2 and 6-4, and of course that’s a much bigger line than we’re going to put up.” 
DePaul’s size advantage will be the biggest threat for the Irish, who rank in the bottom half of the conference in rebounding and blocked shots. McGraw said rebounding will be the team’s focus in practice leading up to Sunday’s matchup. 
“They’re a very good rebound­ing team,” McGraw said. “We’re going to have our work cut out for us on the boards. We’ve got to really, really work on the fun­damentals of boxing out and getting good position.” 
To that end, McGraw will rely on the improved performance of her guards to provide support in the post in addition to their scoring role on the outside. Based on recent success, the tandem of guards senior Ashley Barlow, junior Brittany Mallory and freshman Skylar Diggins should be more than capable of keeping the Blue Devils in check. 
“I’m really thrilled with the guards right now and their rebounding. Ashley Barlow has been doing a great job all year long, but in the last game Brittany Malloy got her career-high with 8 rebounds against Cincinnati and the game before that Skylar got her career-high with 10 against Pitt,” McGraw said. “The guards are finally getting down there and helping out the post, so that’s something that we’ve really kind of needed all year long.” 
Tipoff is at 3 p.m. Sunday at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles optimistic about year 
The experience the Belles toughness on the court. 
By LUKE MANSOUR 
gained over the last year will “We need to keep improving 
Sports Writer 
be put to the test early in the strategically and making bet-
season, as they play two very ter decisions mentally,” 
Despite coming off a disap-solid teams in Campbell said. pointing fifth-place finish in Case Western Saint Mary’s’ the MIAA conference last and Olivet efforts this sea-year, the Saint Mary has Nazarene dur-son will be bol­much reason for optimism as ing the first stered by the 
“We may be looking 
it heads into the new season. week. Case addition of The Belles return all nine Western had a at a nationally three new play-players from the squad that successful fall ranked squad.” ers who will finished with an 11-10 record season, going 4-provide added from a year ago. 1, while Olivet-depth to a
Dale Campbell
“Because we are a bit more Nazarene will somewhat thin experienced this year, that begin the sea-Belles coach roster. Brigid should help us quite a bit,” son nationally Hurley and Belles coach Dale Campbell ranked. Cara Rectanus said. “Our expectation is to The Belles’ are freshmen have more confidence, to early -season who will join make better decisions on the schedule should give them a local area senior Kate court and to good barometer Grabarek as new additions on handle the flow of their the team this year Campbell of the match progress before said. better mental-heading into With the just season begin­
“Because we are 
ly.” their conference ning, the Belles aim is to 
a bit more
Junior Jillian slate. improve with every match Hurley and sen-experienced this “Case Western leading up to conference play. ior Camille year, that should looks to be a “Our goals are simple right Gebert, both very strong now, to get better every day, 
help us quite a bit.” 
standouts last t e a m , ” and to give our best effort,“ year, will once Campbell said. Campbell said. “With that, the again lead the Dale Campbell “We may be results will take care of them-team. Both Belles coach looking at a selves.” were named to nationally The Belles will begin their the all-MIAA ranked squad. season tonight with a home team last sea-We think that match against Case Western son. Hurley finished with a 4-we will gain some great com-at 6 p.m. in the Eck Tennis 4 record in conference dual petitive experience early in Center. They open conference matches at the No. 1 singles the season.” play March 27. position while Gebert finished As the season kicks off, with an 8-0 record at the No. Campbell wants the emphasis Contact Luke Mansour at 2 singles position. to be on improving mental lmansour@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, February 12, 2010 
Sunny 
continued from page 20 
ular, the team is looking forward to freshmen pitchers Jackie Bowe and Brittany O’Donnell, catcher Amy Buntin, outfielder Kelsey Thornton and Kathryn Lux. 
The players have had months together, practicing, eating together and training for tourna­ments like the Kajikawa Classic. 
Wolverines 
continued from page 20 
wins the three-setters.” 
The Irish are coming off a tough loss to Duke in Durham last weekend and are looking to rebound and avenge their loss from last season in the NCAA Tournament. 
“Our match with Duke was a disappointment from a compet­itive point of view,” Bayliss said. “We simply did not win enough big points. We held match points at No. 2 doubles to clinch the point, but didn’t reach out and take it. We had match points at No. 5, won the first set at No. 6, and served twice for the first set at No. 4, but came away with nothing to show for the effort. 
“In short, Duke simply out-competed us, a reversal of what happened a year ago. They are a talented team, but we needed to do a better job at crunch time.” 
Heading into the season the Irish were searching for 
“We feel like a family. We mesh extremely well and we get along on and off the field. We pride ourselves in carrying the strong bond we have off the field onto the field when we play,” Kathryn Lux said. 
The Irish travel to Tempe, Ariz., with games at 9 a.m. and 
11:30 a.m. Friday, 4:30 p.m. and 7 p.m. Saturday and 10:30 a.m. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
answers in their doubles lineup and seem to have found some early in the season having already won the doubles point four out of six times. 
“We served for the doubles point against No. 2 UVA and held match points for it against Duke,” Bayliss said. “We have some options here also with [junior] Matt Johnson, [fresh­man] Spencer Talmadge and [junior] Sean Tan, all of whom were not on the travel squad for Duke. Hopefully this will continue and become a key in more success as the season continues. David Anderson and Dan Stahl have become pretty competitive at No. 3, Havens-Fitzgerald have only one loss at No. 2, and Watt-Davis have shown some promise at No. 1.” 
The Irish are now looking for some of their singles players to follow the lead of the doubles pairings to help the team win close matches. 
The Irish will next travel to Seattle to take on Washington Feb. 20. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 
Seton Hall 
continued from page 20 
time expired. 
Senior point guard Tory Jackson posted a season ­high 25 points to lead the Irish and added six assists. 
After a back -and -forth 
opening five minutes, the Pirates took an early 15-10 lead. Notre Dame quickly responded, going on a 10-0 run to take a five-point lead. 
In the closing minutes of the first half, Hazell and Seton Hall caught the Irish and began to build a lead. Five points from Hazell in the final minute gave the Pirates a 49-39 lead heading into halftime. 
After the break Notre Dame slowly began to chip away at the Pirates lead. A Harangody 3 with 11 min­utes remaining tied the con­test again at 63-63. 
Seton Hall kept firing away from distance, taking back the lead with consecutive 3­pointers from Hazell and senior guard Eugene Harvey. 
Hazell’s fifth 3 of the game then gave Seton Hall a nine-point lead with just over six minutes remaining. 
The Irish would not quit despite the deficit, even after Harangody went out with the injury. Attacking the Pirate defense, free throws by Abromaitis, Joey Brooks and Tyrone Nash brought Notre Dame back within a point at 83-82 with less than two minutes to go. 
Missed free throws down the stretch gave Notre Dame several opportunities to tie 
or take the lead, but the Irish couldn’t convert from the field. Notre Dame missed three field-goal attempts in the final 30 seconds. 
Harangody and Nash each had 13 points and six rebounds in the loss. Abromaitis shot just 2 of 7 from the field but made all 12 of his free throw attempts to finish with 18 points. 
Despite shooting 54 per­cent from the field and 52 percent from 3-point range, the Irish were still out ­gunned by the Pirates. Seton Hall shot 55 percent overall and 63 percent on 3-point shots. 

Notre Dame will next face St. John’s Sunday at Purcell Pavilion, needing a win to continue to stay in the NCAA Tournament conversation. Tip-off will be at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 


Friday, February 12, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
WILL SHORTZ 
EUGENIA LAST 
CROSSWORD 
HOROSCOPE 



HENRI ARNOLD
DAN POHLMAN 
JUMBLE
T.I.N.D. 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Friday, February 12, 2010 page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Hazell eyes are smiling 
Hazell leads Pirates with 35-point night 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish continued their struggles away from home Thursday, falling at Seton Hall 90-87 for their fifth loss in six away games this sea­son. 
Pirates (13-9, 4-7 Big East) guard Jeremy Hazell tore apart the Notre Dame defense, sinking 12 of his 16 field goal attempts for 35 points. The Irish (17-8, 6-6 Big East) played the final four minutes without senior forward Luke Harangody, who suffered an apparent ankle injury coming down after a rebound. 

Notre Dame had two looks at forcing overtime in the final seconds, with junior forwards Tim Abromaitis and Carleton Scott both missing 3-point attempts just before SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 
Junior forward Tim Abromaitis, right, jukes around a South Florida player during the Irish’s 65­see SETON HALL/page 17 62 win over the Bulls on Feb. 7. The Irish fell to Seton Hall on Thursday 90-87 in Newark, N.J. 

MEN’S TENNIS 
Wolverines set to come on campus 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will travel to Ann Harbor, Mich., to square off with the Wolverines on Saturday with the opening set to begin at 6 p.m. 
The Irish split their decisions with the Wolverines a year ago, defeating them at home, and then falling to them in the NCAA Tournament. 
“Our matches with Michigan are always emotional,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “We expect a big crowd and it will be exciting. 
“They have two outstanding players at No. 1 and No. 2 in [junior] Jason Jung and [fresh­man] Evan King, a lefty,” Bayliss said. “We are pretty much evenly matched at the Nos. 3-6 positions and this one will come down to which team 
see WOLVERINES/page 18 


MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Notre Dame looks to make a splash with top three divers 
he still expects his trio of divers which will be front, back, foot for the Irish. weekend’s events. 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
to thrive in the championship. reverse, inward and twist, while “We hope they get us off to a “I spoke to them on the phone 
Sports Writer 
“Obviously we want our divers the sixth dive will be a second great start. They’re really look-recently,” Welsh said. “They are to do well. We expect all divers dive in one of those categories. ing forward to it as well,” Welsh all settled and ready to go. I’ll be 

Three divers are set to lead to score,” Welsh said. “We’d like Once each dive is completed, a said. “There is ultimately one heading out there on Saturday.” the Irish to a strong start at the to have two of our three divers technical score is multiplied by a champion, but these two events The preliminary rounds for the Big East Championship this score in the top eight and make degree of difficulty to obtain a will be scored and then the men begin on Saturday morning weekend in Pittsburgh. it to the championship. All three score for each dive. At the end of teams will head into the swim-with the championship and con-
Junior divers Nathan Geary of them making it in would be a the six dives, the top eight scor-ming portion, which is next solation rounds slated for and Wes Villaflor along with dream scenario, but to have two ing divers advance to the cham-week.” Sunday at Trees Pool on the freshman Ryan Koter will com-in the championships and one in pionship round and the next With a massive blizzard slam-campus of the University of pete in the 1-meter and 3-meter the consolation round is our eight advancing to a consolation ming the Eastern portion of the Pittsburgh. springboard events against the expectation.” round. Welsh said it is essential United States, Welsh expressed best competition in the Big East, Each diver will complete six that the divers start the relief that his divers are already Contact Chris Allen at but Irish coach Tim Welsh said dives in both events, five of Championship off on the right in Pittsburgh and focused on the callen10@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

IrishtotakeonDePaulinPink 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Donning their elegant pink jerseys, the No. 3/4 Irish will defend their unbeaten home record this Sunday when they host DePaul in the annual Pink Zone game. While conference records and playoff implications are on the line, they will be the undertones to breast cancer research and awareness. 
“I just think it’s so important for us to get involved in some­thing as important as fighting breast cancer,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “The great thing about this game for us and our involvement is that 75 per­cent of the money actually stays right here in St. Joe’s County.” 
see DEPAUL/page 18 

SOFTBALL 
Team to open season at sunny Arizona St. 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
This weekend the Irish will travel to the Kajikawa Classic in Tempe, Ariz., for their first tournament of the year. Notre Dame will take on Creighton, Oregon, Auburn, Oregon State and No. 1 Washington in a very busy three days. 
Despite the lack of softball weather in South Bend, the team is ready to break out their cleats and mitts in sunny Arizona. 
“Our hopes for this weekend are to come out strong and ready and to play and look like we have been playing outside for a couple months,” freshman infielder Kathryn Lux said. “We are hoping to win all five games this weekend.” 
The Irish will look to Lux’s older sister, senior first base­man Christine Lux, who was an All-American last year. She also led the team in home runs. Other key veterans the new­comers will look up to include senior third baseman Heather Johnson, junior shortstop Katie Fleury and junior outfielder Brianna Jorgensborg. 
The freshmen are especially excited to play their first set of games officially representing the Irish, especially after demonstrating improvements during the off-season. In partic­
see SUNNY/page 18 






