the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Tuition to top $50K in total next year 
University announces education costs to go up for 2010-11 by smallest percentage since 1960 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
Notre Dame has increased tuition by 3.8 percent for the 2010-11 academic year — totaling $50,785 when includ­ing room and board — mark­ing the lowest percentage increase since 1960, accord­ing to a University press release. 
The tuition is set at $39,919. Room and board will average $10,866 for the year. 
The University raised tuition by 4.4 percent for the 2009-10 academic year, yielding a cost of $38,477. Room and board was about $10,368, totaling $48,845. 
In a letter to parents of stu­dents returning next year, University President Fr. John Jenkins wrote that the University is aware of the financial burden of paying tuition and the struggling economy and its effect on Notre Dame families. 
“[Notre Dame] employs a fis­cally conservative approach to investments and spending to make the best use of all our resources,” he said in the let­ter. 
Jenkins said the administra­
see TUITION/page 6 




Pink Zone fundraiser exceeds goal 
Proceeds from women’s basketball DePaul matchup to benefit breast cancer research, awareness 
cheerleaders also followed suit, wearing pink shirts that said “Fighting Irish Fighting Cancer”. 
During halftime, more than 100 breast cancer sur-
See Also 
vivors from the South Irish top Bend com-
DePaul 90-66
munity pro­ceeded onto page 24 the court before a crowd that was at first hushed in silence, then moved to a standing ovation. 
Donna Ancil is from South Bend and has been a survivor 
see PINK/page 6 



Students’ feelings on Valentine’s Day vary 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
Valentine’s Day is a national holiday that traditionally cele­brates love and romance. At Notre Dame, students’ views about the day of love vary, from those cynical about the holi­day’s appeal to those who cele­brate it as an expression of any kind of love. 
“I think Valentine’s Day is an invention of Hallmark,” sopho­more Jimmy Long said. “I’m single but I wouldn’t take a girl­friend out that night in protest.” 
Other students who are in committed relationships at the University have issues with the goals of the holiday as well and tend to view the day as unim­portant. 
“Valentine’s Day is supposed to be about showing how we feel about someone else,” soph­omore Kathleen McKiernan said. “But we do that everyday.” 
Her boyfriend of seven months, Tony Schlehuber, agreed. 
“Why do we need a special day for something we should do all the time?” he said. 
Seniors Steve Meehan and Rachel Davidson have been dat­ing for three years and they agree that some of the luster of Valentine’s Day has somewhat 
see VALENTINE/page 3 


Edith Stein event spurs discussion 
Conference addresses slew of controversial topics in lectures, panels 
By CARLY LANDON 
News Writer 
The Edith Stein Project, sponsored by the Identity Project of Notre Dame and held in McKenna Hall, returned this weekend for its fifth year and addressed a number of divisive yet perti­nent topics to college-aged audiences. 
This years program, titled “No Man is an Island: Creature, Culture and Community,” featured a series of lectures dedicated to initiat­ing discussion on human iden-
Observer file photo
tity and relationships. 
Panelists address a number of controversial topics the see STEIN/page 3 annual Edith Stein Project in McKenna Hall last year. 




College celebrates sophomoreweekend 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
Following a long tradition of hosting a weekend celebrating the bond between students and their parents, Saint Mary’s College held its annual Sophomore Parents’ Weekend Friday and Saturday. 
“As sophomores, we have conquered the battle of fresh­man year, and most of us would say that we love having Saint Mary’s College as our home away from home,” Cassie Palmer, sophomore class president, said. “However, no matter how com­fortable we are here, nothing can replace our bonds with our families.” 
Parents were invited to visit campus and spend time with their daughters in a variety of scheduled campus events. 
“Sophomore Parents’ Weekend is a valuable experi­ence that I would recommend to every student,” sophomore Kami Umbaugh said. “It really is a wonderful time to show your parents your life at Saint Mary’s while also giving stu­dents the opportunities to cre­ate memories that will last for a lifetime.” 
see WEEKEND/page 6 


By NORA KENNEY 
News Writer 
It seems that even the Notre Dame women’s basketball team celebrated Valentine’s Day — and not just by playing with a lot of heart. As DePaul took to the court yesterday, it was met by an Irish team clad not in their traditional blue and gold, but in light pink. 
Yesterday’s matchup was the second annual Pink Zone game, which raises money for breast cancer research and awareness. 
Fans gathered in the Purcell Pavilion for the sold-out game were loud, excited and clad in pink as well. The Band and 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Women’s basketball team tops DePaul page 24  Bengal Bouts preliminaries page 24  New York Fashion Week page 13  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, February 15, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Valentine’s bites 
Anyone who knows me passably well and sees my name and headshot in an Inside Column on the day after Valentine’s Day is more than likely expecting to read a bitter diatribe about how love is dead. Sorry to dis­appoint you. 
True, the horrible holiday that took place yesterday is single-handedly killing love. No one denies this. I’ve decided, however, that the worst aspect of Feb. 14 and all it stands for is its proximity to Spring Break. 
On March 6, 10 of my friends and I will be jetting off to sunny Puerto Rico for a week of frolicking in the ocean, partaking in assorted alcohol-related debauchery and working on a tan that South Bend will no doubt suck away within days of our return. 
Obviously, since people wear bathing suits to the beach, I’ve spent all my time since last semester’s finals week trying to get in shape. 
I’ve been on the treadmill for an hour a day, tried to tone my arms with the weights at Rolfs and forced my friends to sign up for RecSports abs classes with me. 
Additionally, I’ve been subsisting mainly on chicken noodle soup, raw vegetables, small cups of yogurt and glasses of water. I even tried the Special K diet for a few days. It worked until I gave in and admitted how hungry I was. Those serving sizes aren’t very big. 
I think I’ve been doing a pretty good job. But Valentine’s Day is ruining all of my efforts. 
For the past week or so, I haven’t been able to go anywhere without see­ing some sort of unhealthy (and there­fore extremely tempting) treat. 
There are bowls of candy everywhere I turn. People selling Krispy Kremes seem to be camping out in Jordan Hall because I see them every time I cut through on my way to Rolfs. Even my parents, who are normally pretty good about healthy Valentine’s Day gifts, sent along a donut with the usual assort­ment of fruit. 
Incidentally, as I sat in my room typ­ing this column just now, my RA knocked on my door and presented me with a Funfetti cupcake. This is torture. 
I don’t understand how I’m supposed to get in shape when there are all these well-meaning people offering the entire “eat sparingly” section of the food pyra­mid to anyone who walks by. One single baked good translates to a lot more gym time spent trying to burn off those obnoxious Valentine’s Day calories. 
This holiday is clearly promoting America’s reputation as the fattest, unhealthiest nation in the world through the never-ending supply of chocolatey snacks. It needs to end. Immediately. 
Unfortunately, I typed that last para­graph while stuffing my mouth with the Funfetti cupcake just like the bitter sin­gle person I am. Back to the treadmill. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOUR THOUGHTS ON THE POLAR PLU GE? 






“People are “Ask me again “I’m just trying “It’s pretty “I think I’m “I’m a little bit crazy.” afterwords.” not to think ‘cool.’” going to die. frightened.” about it too Instant heart much.” attack.” 
Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 
Half-mile Valentine made out of manure by farmer 
ALBERT LEA, Minn. — Nothing says “I love you” like a half-mile wide heart made out of manure. A southern Minnesota man created the Valentine’s Day gift for his wife of 37 years in their farm field about 12 miles southwest of Albert Lea. Bruce Andersland told the Alberta Lea Tribune that he started the project with his tractor and manure spreader Wednesday and finished Thursday. 
His wife, Beth, said it’s the biggest and most origi­nal Valentine she has ever received. She said some people might think it’s gross, but she says it’s cute and “Why not do something fun with what you got?” 
She said the heart would be darker except for the recent heavy snowfall that mixed with the manure. 
10,000 Detroit square inch plots on sale for $1 each 
DETROIT — A Web designer is hawking square inches of an empty lot in Detroit for a dollar each to show what can be done with vacant spaces. 
Jerry Paffendorf says nearly 600 “inchvestors” have bought some of the 10,000 plots for sale in the “Loveland” art-and­real -estate project on Detroit’s east side. 
The 28-year-old says he bought the lot for $500 and that profits are fed back into the project. 
He says some inchvestors buy one plot while others have taken 1,000, and that they may do with the land as they wish. He says some plan to construct tiny build­ings. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Tuesday Wednesday 
IN BRIEF 
Mass will be held at 11:30 
a.m. and 5:15 p.m. today in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
“Casting: Breaking the Mold,” a workshop with Keith Byron Kirk will be held at 6 p.m. today in 101 DeBartolo Hall. 
“The Souls of Black Girls” will be presented in Carroll Auditorium at Saint Mary’s College today. The documen­tary will begin at 7 p.m. 
Mardi Gras Hospitality Hour will be held in the Campus Ministry Resource Room in the Student Center at Saint Mary’s College tomorrow. 
A children’s storytime reading of “I Love You! A Bushel and a Peck” will be held at 11 a.m. tomorrow in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
“Catholic and Costa Rican: Bishops’ Discourse Over Free Trade” will be held at 12:30 
p.m. in C103 Hesburgh Center tomorrow. 
“Environmental Effects on Tissue-engineered Cartilage” will be held at 3:30 p.m. tomorrow. The lecture will be held in 138 DeBartolo Hall. 
A poetry reading by Sr. Eva Mary Hooker will be held at 
4:30 p.m. tomorrow in the Stapleton Lounge in LeMans Hall at Saint Mary’s College. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

Thursday Friday 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Irena Zajickova at izajicko@nd.edu 

HIGH 

CORRECTIONS 
27 HIGH 25 HIGH 31 HIGH 28 HIGH 28 HIGH 28 
The Observer regards itself as a professional 
publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so 
we can correct our error. 
Atlanta 33 / 22 Boston 41 / 28 Chicago 29 / 23 Denver 38 / 24 Houston 53 / 32 Los Angeles 75 / 51 Minneapolis 25 / 13 
New York 35 / 22 Philadelphia 37 / 28 Phoenix 76 / 49 Seattle 54 / 38 St. Louis 27 / 22 Tampa 65 / 42 Washington 38 / 30 
Monday, February 15, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Freshman Rich Estes said that of Valentine’s Day is for individ-ing that talks about how agreed that Valentine’s Day he felt pressured into taking his uals to spread happiness to Valentine’s Day should be every-doesn’t have to be focused on 



Valentine 
girlfriend out for Valentine’s Day  loved ones.  day so that you can feel special  couples and should be  more  
continued from page 1  because of the tradition- J u n i o r Chris Lee  everyday of the year, but if every day were Valentine’s Day the  about the important relation­ships that individuals have in  
faded. “We played racquetball and went to Mass,” Meehan said.  al expecta-tions of the holiday.  “The holiday is centered on one person’s affections for  shares the more tradi­tional view of  holiday wouldn’t be significant. It’s special because it’s once a year.”  their lives, regardless of whether those relationships are romantic or not.  
“But other than that we didn’t  “I  really  someone in their life  Va l e n t i n e ’s  Other students believe that  “It’s  a  day about love, not  
feel the need to do much.” Davidson, who received  a  felt obligated to take her  that is special.”  Day and believes it is  Valentine’s Day doesn’t have to be about romantic love but it  romantic love but love in gener­al,” she said. “I don’t have a  
present from Meehan the night  out,” he said.  a  time  to  can also be applied to family  special  someone  but I don’t  
before Valentine’s Day, said she  “I  feel  like  Chris Lee  demonstrate  and friendship.  think that Valentine’s Day is just  
will be giving him a gift later in the week but didn’t feel much  Va l e n t i n e ’s Day is all  junior  love through r o m a n t i c  “I always thought Valentine’s Day is a good day for friend- a day for sweethearts. It’s a day to tell everyone significant in  
anxiety about the demands of  about obliga­ gestures.  ship,” sophomore Liz Ledden  your life how much you care  
the holiday.  tions.”  “The holiday is centered on  said. “It’s a good time to tell  about them.”  
“We joke that Valentine’s Day  While many students have a  one  person’s  affections  for  your friends how much you love  
is just an excuse for him to get me flowers,” she said.  skeptical view of the holiday, others believe that the purpose  someone in their life that is spe­cial,” he said. “There’s the say- them.” Sophomore Jordan Matulis  Contact Molly Madden  at mmadden3@nd.edu  


Stein 
continued from page 1 
Senior JoAnna Roman, co-chair of this year’s Project, said the Conference is success­ful because it is the largest stu­dent-run conference of its kind and it encourages the University community to chal­lenge views of individuals in order to become more collec­tively compassionate. 
“The Conference is a really great opportunity for the com­munity to come to together to think about who we are as human beings, our innate human dignity and to really examine how we can work bet­ter to uphold that human dig­nity through the activity of our daily lives, especially in our relationships, our friendships, our families,” Roman said. 
Throughout the weekend, students attended a variety of presentations given by more dents who attend even if they than 30 experts. Presentations haven’t registered,” she said. focused on issues such as birth The personal highpoint for control, eating disorders and Roman was witnessing the domestic violence. presentation by Melinda 
Roman, who Selmys and the co -chaired panel on the 
“The Conference is a 
the event with Pastoral Care of senior Sarah really great Homosexual Johnson, said opportunity for the Persons by the s t u d e n t s U.S. Conference 
community to come
tended to of Catholic attend the together to think about Bishops in 2006. presentations who we are as human “We planned that were the speakers 
beings and to really
personally months ago, compelling to examine how we can specifically this them. work better to uphold speech because 
“We had we realized 
that human dignity.” 
almost 300 homosexuality people regis-and its treatment ter, which is JoAnna Roman on campus was slightly high-co-chair an issue on cam-er than usual, pus,” Roman 
Edith Stein Conference 
and even said. “Reflecting though there on recent cam-is no accurate way to assess pus events it became even how many people actually more significant because it attended, there are a lot of stu-helped reiterate the Church’s teaching on homosexuality, speakers to getting food. It is a which call us to be compas-really humbling experience to sionate towards others regard-those of us who plan to have so less of their sexual orientation. many people willing to become 
“I think it is important to be involved,” Roman said. reminded of She added this because I that the stu­think some peo-dent partici­
“The Edith Stein 
ple get so pants make the 
Project is a really huge
caught up that Con fer ence they don’t real-undertaking. We have possible. 
ize that, as dozens of people every “We also 
Catholics, our want to thank 
year who help from
first calling is to all those who show compas-organizing speakers to attended sion towards getting food.” because what one another,” makes a con-she said. ference is not 
JoAnna Roman
Roman reiter-the planning ated her and co-chair but the people Johnson’s Edith Stein Conference who attend so thanks to every-we’d really just one who took like to thank part in planning all the students the Conference. who participated,” Roman 
“The Edith Stein Project is a said. really huge undertaking. We have dozens of people every Contact Carly Landon at year who help from organizing clandon@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, February 15, 2010 



World & Nation 
Monday, February 15, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Israeli harem leader charged 
JERUSALEM — An Israeli man who kept a cult-like harem of women and fathered dozens of children with them was charged in a Tel Aviv court Sunday with enslavement, rape, incest and other sexual offenses. 
The 25-page indictment accused 60-year-old Goel Ratzon of setting himself up as a “godlike” figure who preyed on troubled women while treating them like “chattel.” 
The case has captivated the Israeli public since Ratzon’s arrest last month. Several of the women have come forward with details of their unconventional lives, describing their attraction to the man with flowing, long white hair. 
According to the indictment, Ratzon kept at least 21 women who bore him a total of 49 chil­dren. It said he kept the women in a state of near-total obedience in crowded apartments in the Tel Aviv area, taking their welfare checks and making them take bank loans which he then confiscated. 

Celebrated author, jockey dies 
LONDON — Dick Francis, the best-selling British thriller writer and former champion jockey, died on Sunday in his home in the Cayman Islands. He was 89. 
A successful steeplechase jockey, Francis turned to writing after he retired from racing in 1957. He penned 42 novels, many of which fea­tured racing as a theme. His books were trans­lated into more than 20 languages, and in 2000 Queen Elizabeth II — whose mother was among his many readers — honored Francis by making him a Commander of the British Empire. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

At least 3 dead in copter crash 
PHOENIX — A helicopter crash just north of Phoenix killed at least three people on Sunday afternoon, including a child, and officials could-n’t rule out the possibility of more victims. 
Residents in the area known as Cave Creek heard noises and saw parts flying off the 6-seat helicopter before it crashed and burst into flames at about 3 p.m. MST, said Deputy Lindsey Smith, a spokeswoman for the Maricopa County Sheriff’s Office. 
“It’s a pretty horrific crash,” she said. “It’s just obliterated.” 
Authorities have specifically identified three victims, Smith said. But since the Eurocopter EC135 can hold six people, officials are looking into whether there were additional victims. 

Suburban apartment fire kills 7 
CHICAGO — An early morning fire that ripped through a suburban Chicago apartment building on Sunday left seven people dead, including a newborn baby, a 3-year-old and four teenagers. 
The death toll rose from four to seven Sunday as investigators searched through the charred remains of the three-story building in Cicero for victims and residents waited anx­iously to hear word of their loved ones and neighbors. 
“To happen on a day when families are usu­ally coming together for love and life — Valentine’s Day — it makes it even more trag­ic,” said town spokesman Ray Hanania. “It impacted everybody, including the firemen.” 
He said initial reports indicated the victims may have been related. 
The blaze started around 6:30 a.m. and was extinguished in about an hour, Hanania said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

New street signs simplify navigation 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. — A new breed of street signs could make Bloomington easier to navigate at night or in bad weather. 
The city has begun replacing more than 15,000 street signs with highly reflective ones to meet federal regulations. 
The new signs have a high-intensity metal sheeting that reflects light better than the old signs. Bloomington traffic manager Derek Neff says the signs look like they’re lit when head­lights hit them. 
The new signs cost $25 apiece. The city plans to spend more than $375,000 when all its signs are upgraded. 
AFGHANISTAN 


U.S. rockets crash into home 
Blasts kill 12 civilians outside Taliban stronghold; president appeals to NATO 
Associated Press 
MARJAH  — Two  U.S.  
rockets  slammed  into  a  
home Sunday outside the  
southern Taliban stronghold  
of Marjah, killing 12 civil­ 
ians after Afghanistan’s  
president appealed to NATO  
to take care in its campaign  
to seize the town.  
Inside Marjah, Marines  
encountered “death at every  
corner” in their second day  
of a massive offensive to  
capture this bleak mud- 
brick city filled with booby  
traps,  hardcore Taliban  
fighters and civilians unsure  
where to cast their loyalty.  
Marines  confronted  a  
fierce sandstorm as they  
ducked in and out of door­ 
ways and hid behind bullet- 
riddled  walls  to  evade  
sniper fire. To the north,  
U.S. Army troops fought  
skirmishes with Taliban  
fighters, calling in a Cobra  
attack helicopter against the  
insurgents.  
Insurgents littered the  
area with booby traps and  
explosives before the offen­ 
sive, and the sound of con­ 
trolled detonations — about  
three every hour — punctu­ 
ated the day along with  
mortars and rocket fire. AP  
“Our children  are  very A wounded U.S. service member, left, is wished well by comrades as he is evacuated  
scared by the explosions. by a U.S. Army Task Force helicopter crew in Marjah, Afghanistan, Sunday.  
When will it end?” asked  
Zaher, a 25-year-old poppy  projectiles veered 300 yards  about what happened” and  soldier  died  Sunday  of  
farmer  who  like  many  (meters)  off  target  and  has been “very seriously  wounds  suffered  in  an  
Afghans goes by one name.  blasted a house in the Nad  conveying his message” of  explosion.  
The civilian deaths were a  Ali district, which includes  restraint “again and again.”  Marines  and  Afghan  
blow to NATO and Afghan  Marjah, NATO added.  Allied  officials  have  forces met only scattered  
efforts to win the support of  The top NATO command- reported  two  coalition  resistance  when  they  
residents in the Marjah  er  in  Afghanistan,  Gen.  deaths  so  far  — one  swooped down by helicopter  
area, a major goal of the  Stanley McChrystal, apolo- American and one Briton,  on the impoverished farm- 
biggest ground offensive of  gized to President Hamid  who  were  both  killed  ing community before dawn  
the eight-year war. Marjah,  Karzai for “this tragic loss  Saturday. Afghan officials  Saturday. A day later, how- 
which had a population of  of life” and suspended use  said at least 27 insurgents  ever, Taliban attacks were  
80,000 before the offensive,  of the sophisticated HIMARS  have  been  killed  in  the  escalating, with small bands  
is a Taliban logistical center  system pending “a thorough  offensive.  of fighters firing rifles and  
and a base for their lucra­ review of this incident,”  In unrelated incidents in  rocket-propelled grenades  
tive  opium  trade  which  NATO said.  southern  Afghanistan,  at troops moving slowly  
finances the insurgency.  Before the offensive began  NATO  said  two  service  through  the  bombs  and  
The rockets were fired by  Saturday, Karzai pleaded  members died Sunday —  booby  traps  hidden  in  
a High Mobility Artillery  for the Afghan and foreign  one from small-arms fire  homes, residential  com- 
Rocket System, or HIMARS,  commanders to be “serious­ and the other from a road  pounds and along the rutted  
at insurgents who attacked  ly careful for the safety of  side bomb explosion. The  streets.  
U.S. and Afghan forces,  civilians.”  international force did not  “It seems these guys want  
wounding  one  American  Karzai’s  spokesman  disclose their nationalities,  to get a bit closer,” Lt. Carl  
and one Afghan, NATO said  Waheed  Omar  said  the  but the British defense min- Quist  said  as  bullets  
in a statement. Instead, the  president “is very upset  istry reported that a British  whizzed overhead.  

HAITI 

U.S. forces scale back quake relief role 
Within a broad international relief chokepoint,” said Air Force Maj. John 
Associated Press 
effort, U.S. forces have provided some of Mansuy of St. Clairsville, Ohio, the operat-
PORT-AU-PRINCE — The biggest U.S. the most visible support to a nation whose ing room nurse in a tented, full-service military surge since Iraq and Afghanistan government and infrastructure were unit with zipper doors and a positive air is scaling back a month after the troops nearly wiped out in less than a minute on flow to keep out choking dust that blan­arrived in haste to aid victims of Haiti’s Jan. 12. kets a landfill in the teeming Cite Soleil catastrophic quake. They have shored up the capital’s slum. 
Great gray ships have been leaving quake-damaged port to operate at several His medical team takes in people behind Haiti’s battered shores as thou-times its pre-quake tonnage, while acting strapped to stretchers — with fractures, sands of American troops pack up their as a security and logistics mainstay for open wounds and other life-threatening tents. The mission, however, is far from U.N. food distributions. Military choppers maladies — before rushing them offshore over. have delivered life-sustaining relief to iso-to the Comfort. 
Defense Secretary Robert Gates says lated villages. The U.S. military already is turning cer­the U.S. will be in Haiti for the long haul, The flow of injured quake victims to the tain tasks back over to the Haitians, such although troop strength is down to 13,000 USNS Comfort hospital ship has eased, as daytime air-traffic control at Port-au­from a Feb. 1 peak of 20,000. Those who but the need for medical facilities remains Prince’s damaged international airport, remain will accompany Haitians in an overwhelming in Port-au-Prince. where commercial flights are expected to arduous struggle toward recovery. “We’re pretty saturated. This is the resume by Friday. 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 15, 2010 
Weekend 
continued from page 1 
According to Palmer, the weekend began with an open­ing reception in the Student Center Lounge where College President Carol Ann Mooney gave a welcome address. Following the opening remarks, students and their parents were invited to partic­ipate in a silent auction and trivia game. A slideshow was also presented with baby and college photos of the women was held after the Mass for sophomores and their parents at the Hilton Garden Inn to conclude the weekend’s events. 
“I would have to say that the dinner and dance was my favorite activity because it was nice to converse and socialize with different friends and fam­ilies while spending time with my own,” Umbaugh said. 
According to Palmer, 325 participants registered for the weekend. 
“Sophomore Parents’ Weekend gives us the unique 
“It was a busy weekend,
in attendance. Students and but I enjoyed spending 
their parents one on one time with my were provided 
mom because we love
with a brunch 
in the spending time together.” Stapl eton Lounge in 
Eilis Wasserman 
LeMans Hall 
sophomore
Saturday morning. Following the brunch, the a cappella group Bellacappella preformed a private show in the Little Theatre at Moreau Hall. Dance group Troop ND also performed. To educate families on College history, a display of Saint Mary’s her­itage was exhibited at the Welcome Center. 
In addition, students and parents were invited to a spe­cial Mass held at the Church Of Loretto. 
“My favorite activity was the Mass … I would say this because the homily message by the priest was very inspir­ing,” sophomore Eilis Wasserman said. 
A special dinner and dance opportunity to see our two worlds come together, and to share our SMC experi­ences with our families,” Palmer said. 
St udents said they enjoyed hav­ing their par­
ents on campus and having the opportunity to spend the weekend with them. 
“I really enjoyed getting to spend quality time with my family and show them things on campus that make Saint Mary’s unique and special,” Umbaugh said. 
Wasserman also enjoyed the time spent with her family. 
“It was a busy weekend, but I enjoyed spending one on one time with my mom because we love spending time together,” she said. “The weekend went by too fast. I wish there was more time.” 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 


Pink 
continued from page 1 
of breast cancer for eight years. As she lined up to walk on to the court with her fellow survivors, she acknowledged the powerful emotions that emerged dur­ing the Pink Zone game. 
“It’s empowering to be here,” she said. “It’s the Institute. The many 
local com­munity coming tog eth er and being excit ed, and we know the basketball players are so support­ive about all of this.” 
Molly Duman Scheel, a medi cal 
“It’s a nice event and brings together cancer researchers with cancer survivors and it’s a good way to raise money that will beneft people in our area.” 
Molly Duman Scheel biology professor 
student at the Indiana University School of Medicine and Notre Dame biology professor, is also involved in the fight against breast cancer. She studies Medical and Molecular Genetics, specifically the genetics of metastasis in a Raclin-Carmichael Hall lab­oratory. 
Like Ancil, she was excit­ed to see the community come together and also excited that the Pink Zone game acknowledged both support and research in the fight against breast cancer. 
“It’s a nice event and brings together cancer researchers with cancer survivors and it’s a good way to raise money that will benefit people in our area,” Duman Scheel said. 
Like University President Fr. John Jenkins, who spoke during the game, Duman Scheel is enthusiastic about the recent addition to Raclin-Carmichael Hall, the Harper Cancer Research 
gave away 
groups that came together for the Pink Zone game included Fannie Mae, which sold chocolates to raise money, as well as the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore, which sold pink pom­poms and pink flash­
lights. Representatives from the Women’s Task Force of Saint Joseph’s Regional Medical Center, the Secret Sisters Society, RiverBend Cancer Services and Young Survivors Breast Cancer Support Group were also in attendance. 
Pink Zone exceeded its goal of raising $55,000 by more than $15,000 for a total of more than $70,000, as announced at the end of the game. The Irish defeat­ed DePaul 90-66. 
Contact Nora Kenney at hkenney@nd.edu 


Tuition 
continued from page 1 
tion has been working to limit spending and cut costs in order to keep the tuition increase as low as possible. 
As a Notre Dame education is an investment for families and students, Jenkins wrote that the University will “strive to match the enormous amount of time, talent and energy” that students and parents give to the educational experience. 
Jenkins said the University’s financial aid program remains a priority. 
In light of this year’s econom­ic downturn, University schol­arship assistance in 2010-11 will increase by 18 percent to $98 million. 
Notre Dame admissions remain “need blind,” meaning applicants are admitted with­out consideration for the ability to pay full tuition. 
In the letter to parents, Jenkins said 95 percent of Notre Dame students graduate on time. 
“[Notre Dame] strives to develop the heart and the mind … instill values and knowledge … and inspire a lifelong mis­sion as well as the capability to pursue it,” he said. 
Graduate and professional school tuition also will increase by 3.8 percent, bringing total tuition to $39,310 for the Graduate School and $40,340 for both the Law School and the Master of Business Administration Program. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

The Observer 




Business
Monday, February 15, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

IN BRIEF 
Samsung unveils new smart phone 
BARCELONA — Samsung Electronics Co., the largest maker of cell phones for the U.S. market, on Sunday revealed the first phone running Samsung’s own “smart” software system, bada. 
With bada, Korea-based Samsung is taking the TouchWiz system used on its touch-screen non-smart phones and making it the basis of a smart phone platform to take on Apple Inc.’s iPhone and Research In Motion Ltd.’s BlackBerry. Samsung also makes phones based on other competing smart phone systems: Android, creat­ed by Google Inc., and Symbian, of which Nokia Corp. is a major backer. 
J.K. Shin, the president of Samsung’s phone division, said the goal of bada was to expand the market for smart phones, making them avail­able to people across the world who have made do with non-smart phones. 
The new phone, dubbed the Wave, is a touch screen phone like the iPhone. It features a highly saturated, high-resolution screen using organic light emitting diodes, or OLEDs. Samsung said the phone will go on sale in April, but did not say if the U.S. would be one of the launch markets, nor did it say what the phone would cost. 
To support the Wave and existing phones using TouchWiz, Samsung is launching online applications stores in 50 countries this year, including the U.S. Most major phone makers now operate applications stores, or make phones that use stores administered by others, like Google. 

Iran begins drilling in Caspian Sea 
TEHRAN — State TV reports that Iran has began drilling its first exploratory oil well in the Caspian Sea. 
The Sunday report quotes head of Iran’s North Drilling Company Hedayatollah Khademi as say­ing the well is one of the three planned to gauge the amount of recoverable oil available in Iran’s territorial waters of the sea. 
Khademi said the drilling began last week and is taking place at 1,550 meters under the seabed. 
The move is the latest Iranian push to take a bigger stake of the natural resources of the sea, which is shared by Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Russia and Turkmenistan. 
In 2009 Iran inaugurated its first offshore oil platform in the Caspian. 


Chrysler reveals plans to dealers 
New management discusses company’s future, sellers express mixed emotions 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. — As he  
walked out of an auditorium  
Sunday afternoon, Grant  
Irwin Sr. pretty much  
summed up the feelings of  
Chrysler dealers who had  
just spent two hours listening  
the automaker’s new man­ 
agement.  
The 73-year-old dealer  
from Northwest Oklahoma  
said he’s impressed by the  
executives installed by Fiat  
and Chrysler CEO Sergio  
Marchionne, and optimistic  
about new cars and trucks  
that are coming.  
But he’s also wondering  
about the short-term, which  
he and other dealers some­ 
how must survive with an  
aging model lineup that  
pushed sales down 36 per­ 
cent last year.  
“We’re struggling,” said  
Irwin, who runs a Chrysler­ 
Dodge-Jeep dealership rural  
Woodwind, Okla., about 140  
miles from Oklahoma City.  
“We’re going to sell less  
cars.”  
Dealer after dealer who  
exited the annual meeting at  
the National Automobile  
Dealers Association conven­ 
tion in Orlando, Fla., said  
they were happy with what AP  
they heard, but also said A real estate sign stands at Cook Auto, a former Chrysler Dodge Jeep dealer in Little  
executives didn’t offer any Rock, Ark., Jan. 21. Chrysler’s January sales were down 55 percent from last year.  
options to help them get  
through the next six months  more efficient, Jeep Grand  lion in annual sales.  were skeptical of recent  
to a year when new products  Cherokee that is coming  Many dealers said they will  advertising campaigns,  
are scheduled to arrive.  around June. A redone  have to adjust the same way,  which were humorous and  
Chrysler sold only 931,000  Chrysler 300 and Charger,  keeping overhead low and  focused more on brand iden­ 
cars and trucks last year,  the new Fiat 500 minicar and  making money on used cars  tity rather than touting  
down from 1.4 million in  a new Dodge sport utility  and service, if they want to  Chrysler’s products. Some  
2008. January sales were  vehicle are expected later in  survive. Others are hoping  wondered how the brand  
even worse, only 62,000 for  the year.  for better incentives so they  advertising would help them  
the month, down 55 percent  The dealers heard presen­ can sell more vehicles by  sell more cars.  
from the same month in  tations on advertising, mar- offering great deals.  Chuck Eddy Jr., a Chrysler- 
2009.  keting and incentives from  “Some dealers I think were  Dodge-Jeep dealer in  
“I think there’s a lot of good  Fred Diaz Jr., who runs the  pretty encouraged and others  Youngstown, Ohio, said he  
things coming,” said Paul  Ram truck brand and is  are frustrated,” said Walser.  had good sales last year by  
Walser, who runs a Chrysler- Chrysler’s top U.S sales exec­ “We’re kind of playing  marketing deals, helped by  
Dodge-Jeep dealership in  utive, and Olivier Francois,  defense, I think, for the  incentives from the company  
Hopkins, Minn., near  who heads advertising and  moment.”  such as rebates and low- 
Minneapolis. “I think we’re  the Chrysler brand.  Dealers who are totally  interest financing. He’s hop- 
all wondering what the jour- They told the dealers they  reliant on Chrysler Group  ing for increased incentives  
ney looks like between now  are projecting sales this year  LLC brands, Chrysler, Jeep  to help make it until the new  
and the time when all the  at just under 1.2 million, up a  and Dodge, were a little more  vehicles arrive.  
product starts to arrive.”  little from last year. The com- frustrated because they’re  “Our buyers are loyal  
Chrysler plans to have 16  pany, the dealers said, still  totally reliant on the compa­ because they like the deal,”  
new or significantly redone  has $5 billion in cash and has  ny, said Walser, who also  Eddy said. “We’ve got to get  
models by the end of this  reduced its expenses and  runs Toyota Motor Corp. and  to the new product so we  
year. The company has high  gained efficiencies so it can  other franchises.  don’t have to worry so much  
hopes for a new lighter, and  break-even at just over a mil- Some dealers said they  about selling the deal.”  


Fishermen to rally against federal law 
Associated Press Recreational Fishing Alliance, a rally so high,” Jackson said. “Now it’s 
organizer, said the overall goal is come down to ‘You know what, it’s do 
BOSTON — Fishermen from changing the Magnuson-Stevens Act, or die, we’re all in this together, around the country are planning to the federal fisheries law that was regardless of what kind of fishing you pack the steps in front of the U.S. reauthorized in 2007. do.’” Capitol this month to demand Hutchinson said the law sets unre-National Oceanic and Atmospheric changes to a federal fisheries law alistic fish stock recovery goals based Administration spokeswoman Monica they say is killing jobs and eroding on flawed science, then mandates Allen said the agency “will be listen-fishing communities. harsh cuts for failing to meet the ing carefully to what fishermen and 
Organizers of the “United We Fish” goals. others have to say that day.” rally expect up to 3,000 people at the “This is about real people having She added that the U.S. has world-Feb. 24 protest, including a biparti-real concerns and being put out of leading fishery science and manage­san roster of congressmen and fish-business, being kicked off the water,” ment, and fishermen will see the ermen from as far away as Alaska. Hutchinson said. benefits. 
The rally comes as various issues Tina Jackson, a Point Judith, R.I., “We estimate that once the nation roil the fishing business, including fisherman who is organizing a bus rebuilds all fisheries, which we are questions about uneven law enforce-ride to the rally, thinks policymakers on a track to do and required to do ment, restrictions on key recreational will be forced to pay attention when by law, the dockside value of our stocks and a switch to a new system they see solidarity from a field tradi-fisheries would go from $4.1 billion of regulating Northeast fishermen. tionally filled with factions. to $6.3 billion annually, a 54-percent 
But Jim Hutchinson Jr. of the “The competition has always run increase,” she said. 
page 8 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Monday, February 15, 2010 


Weather halts  escue s 
Associated Press 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska — Rain, low clouds and predicted high winds Sunday grounded searchers seeking the body of a ConocoPhillips Alaska employ­ee missing and presumed dead in an avalanche that killed the head of the company. 
The avalanche at around noon Saturday on the Kenai Peninsula buried Jim Bowles, 57, head of ConocoPhillips Alaska, and Alan Gage, 39, part of the company’s capital projects team in Anchorage. Gage remains missing. 
“The weather is not cooper­ating and it’s not conducive to search,” said Megan Peters, a spokeswoman for the Alaska State Troopers. 
The men were in a party of 12 snowmobilers in the Grandview wilderness area, part of the Chugach National Forest, between the tiny com­munities of Moose Pass and Portage. 
Bowles was buried for about 45 minutes before companions using avalanche beacons dug him out. He was pronounced dead at the scene. 
Gage apparently was not wearing an avalanche beacon, troopers said. 

Pro-life Ga. billboard causes controversy 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA — The message 
on dozens of billboards across Atlanta is provocative: Black children are an “endangered species.” 
The eyebrow-raising ads featuring a young black child are an effort by the anti­abortion movement to use race to rally support within the black community. The reaction from black leaders has been mixed, but the “Too Many Aborted” campaign, which so far is unique to only Georgia, is drawing sup­port from other anti-abortion groups across the country. 
“It’s ingenious,” said the Rev. Johnny Hunter, national director of the Life Education and Resource Network, a North Carolina-based anti­abortion group aimed at African-Americans that oper­ates in 27 states. “This cam­paign is in your face, and nobody can ignore it.” 
The billboards went up last week in Atlanta and urge black women to “get out ­raged.” 
The effort is sponsored by Georgia Right to Life, which also is pushing legislation that aims to ban abortions based on race. 
Black women accounted for the majority of abortions in Georgia in 2006, even though blacks make up just a third 
of the state’s population, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
Nationally, black women were more than three times as likely to get an abortion in 2006 compared with white women, according to the CDC. 
“I think it’s necessary,” Cheryl Sullenger, senior poli­cy adviser for Operation Rescue, a prominent anti­abortion group, said of the billboard campaign. “Abortion in the black com­munity is at epidemic pro­portions. They’re not really aware of what ’s actually going on. If it shocks people ... it should be shocking.” 
Anti -abortion advocates say the procedure has always been linked to race. They claim Planned Parenthood founder Margaret Sanger wanted to eradicate minorities by put­ting birth control clinics in their neighborhoods, a charge Planned Parenthood denies. 
“The language in the bill­board is using messages of fear and shame to target women of color,” said Leola Reis, a spokeswoman for Planned Parenthood of Georgia. “If we want to reduce the number of abor­tions and unintended preg­nancies, we need to work as a community to make sure we get quality affordable 
health  care  services  to  as  
m a n y  w o m e n  a n d  m e n  a s  
possible.”  

In 2008, Issues4Life, a 
California-based group work­ing to end abortion in the black community, lobbied Congress to stop funding Planned Parenthood, calling black abortions “the Darfur of America,” referring to the violence-wracked western Sudanese province. 
Pro -Life Action League Executive Director Eric Scheidler said a race-based strategy for anti-abortion activists has gotten a fresh zeal, especially in the wake of the historic election of the country’s first black presi­dent, Barack Obama, who supports abortion rights. 
“He’s really out of step with the rest of black America,” Scheidler said. “That might be part of what may be shifting here and why a campaign like this is appropriate, to kind of wake up that disconnect.” 

Abortion rights advocates are disturbed. Spelman College professor Beverly Guy-Sheftall called the strat­egy a gimmick. 
“To use racist arguments to try to bait black people to get them to be anti-abortion is just disgusting,” said Guy-Sheftall, who teaches women’s history and feminist thought at the historically black women’s college. 

Monday, February 15, 2010 The Observer . NATONAL NEWS page 9 


Fire ravages apartment, kills four children 
Complex burns after man falls asleep while cooking; building engulfed in flames when fire dept. arrives 
killing the man’s young child 
Associated Press 
and three others he was baby-
FLINT, Mich. — A fire that sitting, authorities said. apparently started after a man The fire started at about 11 fell asleep while cooking swept p.m. Saturday in a kitchen in through an apartment building, one of the building’s six town houses, said Rod Slaughter, executive director of the Flint Housing Commission. 

Neighbors spotted flames and smoke, and banged on the doors of the unit to wake the 28-year-old father, who escaped through a first-floor window, Fire Battalion Chief Andy Graves said. 
They unsuccessfully tried to coax one of the children to jump from a second-floor win­dow. 
“They were able to reach one child, but they couldn’t get her to jump,” Graves said Sunday. 
The children were between the ages of 1 and 4 years old. 
Smoke detectors either were not working or the residents of the unit where the fire started did not heed them, Graves said. The apartment was fully engulfed in flames when fire­fighters arrived. 
Flint Public Safety Director Al Lock said firefighters arrived at the building within minutes of the emergency call. 
“They did all that they could to try to reach the children,” Lock said at a news conference Sunday night. He said when the firefighters found the children they could not be revived. 
Pink and blue balloons, teddy bears and candles were placed outside the burned town house in an impromptu memorial for the victims. The neighborhood is pockmarked by vacant lots and boarded-up single-family homes in a battered industrial city hard-hit by the loss of tens of thousands of General Motors Corp. jobs over recent decades. 
Chiquana Richey, a former resident of the complex, raced to the scene after getting a call from a friend soon after the blaze broke out. The mother of two children returned there Sunday. 
“I couldn’t imagine what it would be like to lose my chil­dren like that. I couldn’t live. I live for my children,” said Richey, 32. 
Melinda Stewart, a neighbor whose three children played with the children who died, said she called 911 in a panic after the fire erupted. 

“I was just screaming to 911, ‘The babies are inside,’” Stewart told The Flint Journal. 
It took firefighters hours to bring the blaze under control but it flared up again early Sunday, destroying Stewart’s apartment and possessions and those of other neighbors. 
The fire spread through a common attic and damaged all of the six units in the two-story apartment building, part of a sprawling, low-rise complex 

The Observer



Viewpoint
page 10 Monday, February 15, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 


Operation Togetherness 
As Operation Mushtarak (which means togetherness in Pashtun) — aimed at Taliban strongholds in Helmand province — enters the fifth day of operations, NATO coalition forces are meeting with considerable 
James Napier
tactical success. Opposition has 
Demarcating
been minimal and 
Democracy
the show of force has, according to CNN, convinced many tribal leaders in the area that the coalition is there to stay. Still, commanders on the ground have emphasized that the operation is not yet complete and may still encounter significant complications. Placed into the larger picture of Obama’s planned surge, the operation illustrates the capabilities of American and coalition forces when effectively concentrated against the enemy. 
At the same time, it is impossible to judge the true effectiveness of the operation or the Surge at this time. In the past, initially successful operations have been unable to bring as much pressure against the Taliban as was hoped or were unable to hold out against Taliban counterattacks. Additionally, it should be remembered that there will be an additional 30,000 troops on the ground by the end of the Surge and it is impossible to say with certainty how successful this massive deployment will be until all boots are on the ground. Keeping Iraq in mind, many political commentators began claiming the Iraqi Surge was a failure before much of the deployment could be carried out. 
Another aspect of the Iraqi Surge applicable to Afghanistan is that both operations are only military operations and are only one aspect of a multi­faceted solution. To say that a military operation is a failure because it did not bring political unity is like saying an apple tastes bad because it does not taste like an orange. Military opera­tions are meant to provide military solutions and provide a certain level of security — nothing more or less. Just as much political and structural ground work remains to be done in post-Surge Iraq; the same will be true in Afghanistan when military opera­tions begin winding down. 
Despite the parallels one can draw between Iraq and Afghanistan, there are also many differences and certain approaches taken in Iraq that will sim­ply not work in Afghanistan. While Iraq has its share of sectarian prob­lems, it has a history — however trou­bled — of unification and Iraqis have shown an ability — albeit rarely — to overcome sectarian rivalries for the sake of a broader communal concept. Afghanistan, on the other hand, has long been a very fractured country divided into a patchwork of a variety of tribes and ethnic groups. It also lacks natural resources such as the vast oil reserves found in Iraq. Money, after all, makes things go more smoothly. Additionally, the Afghan government and security forces have — with few exceptions — proven to be shaky part­ners. President Hamid Karzai is well known for his back room dealings and flirtations with nefarious characters. And, there is a high turn-over rate in the Afghan security forces. 
Afghanistan does have its share of problems, but this is not to say it is a hopeless situation. As tempting as it is to cut and run in the short term, such a short-sighted strategy will undoubt­edly come back to haunt the United States as has happened with so many other policies from America’s past. Rather, it is imperative that America take Afghanistan’s unique history, social structure and culture into account when hashing out its long­term foreign policy towards the region and Afghanistan in particular. Perhaps Afghanistan will never be a well-func­tioning liberal democracy but this is not essential for American security or necessarily worth the necessary invest­ments in blood and treasure. Rather, the United States should try and estab­lish friendly relations with Afghanistan’s rulers and strike a bal­ance between pressuring Afghanistan to democratize and partnering with Afghanistan against enemies of the United States. Simply put, there is not enough public interest, or internation­al support for loftier goals. 
James Napier is a senior history major. He can be contacted at jnapier@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

News Viewpoint 
OBSERVER POLL 


QUOTE OF THE DAY
Katie Peralta Lianna Alicia Smith Brauweiler What is your favorite Kristin Durbin Sports Winter Olympic event? Graphics Laura Myers 
Figure skating
Mary Cecilia Megan Finneran 
“Writing isn’t hard. It isn’t any
Hockey 
harder than ditch-digging.”
Mitsch Kevin Baldwin 
Snowboarding

Scene 
Alpine skiing 
Patrick Dennis
Nick Anderson 
U.S. author
Curling 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
The Observer 




Viewpoint 
Monday, February 15, 2010 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Truth, identity and Edith Stein 
Many thanks to those who organized the Edith Stein Conference last week for their dedication to exploring religious, cultural and sexual identi­ty. However, I would invite the planners next year to give voice to the expe­rience of faithful Catholics who do not identify as heterosexual. 
The Conference hosted Melinda Selmys, who lived as a lesbian for over seven years before “converting” to both Catholicism and heterosexuality. Selmys’ story was a nuanced one; she did not claim to be ex-gay and she questioned the morality of the University’s current non-discrimination poli­cy. However, if the conference desires to reflect upon homosexuality and Catholicism, planners may want to consider allowing someone to speak who actually identifies as homosexual, which they failed to do with both Selmys and in the two men chosen for the panel discussion. 
In privileging Selmys’ voice, a subtle message was sent that homosexual identity is illegitimate and anti-Catholic. For those struggling to integrate body and soul (a theme of the conference), that message can actually do more violence than any ill-conceived cartoon ever could. In protest to Selmys as a speaker, students gathered at McKenna Hall to recite “queer poetry.” While some called security for them to be taken away, Selmys’ hus­band stood and listened to the poetry preachers and applauded them. 
I hope that Conference organizers in the future follow his example and give space to listen to the voices of LGBTQ Catholics. Such dialogue could form a complimentary relationship that would give everyone deeper insight into the incredible beauty of humanity created in the image of God, and the boundless love we receive from such a Creator.  At the conference, Dolores Hart, OSB remarked, “It is the love of truth that led Edith Stein to the truth of Love.” The Conference developed out of a love of truth, and I hope in the future it will voice the truth of the experience of homosexual Catholics. While such dialogue takes courage on both parts, there is nothing to fear because as Catholics we know the outcome, which is the truth of Love. 
Kathleen Healy 
graduate student off campus Feb. 14 

Cloudy with a chance of meatballs 
There are many things to like about North Dining Hall, from the large main room to its lovely employees swiping everyone in day after day. However, it is hard to be complacent, as there are things within those walls which seemingly defy logic or reason. 
First, one has to wonder why North chooses to have Mini Swedish Meatballs as an option. Not only are they terrible, but the real atrocity is that they replace the delicacy that is regular meatballs. Why mix Swedish with Italian? Keep it pure, North. 
Secondly, it may blow some people’s minds, but grilled chicken that is available and not dry is actually preferable to other options. Why cook to order? Keep some out for those of us who just want to eat quickly. 
Oh, and why separate spoons from the forks and knives? This sort of segregation of utensils is something we cannot stand for at the University. Spoons have every right to be with their brethren. 
As for the Domers who see this plea and immediately point to South as the answer, all I have to say is “Left left.” When I go to eat, I don’t want to have to go through a maze first. Your little Hogwarts is not for me. 

Brendan Keeler 
sophomore Siegfried Hall Feb. 12 


An earthquaking trend 
At 3:59:34 a.m. CST on Feb. 10, a 3.8-magnitude earthquake hit Northern Illinois. Fellow countrymen felt the commotion in places such as Tennessee and Georgia. Comparatively, the devastating earthquake in Haiti registered 7.0 on the Richter Scale. Therefore, Haiti experienced an earthquake roughly 1,500 times stronger than the one in Illinois. If you believe that this means the earthquake in Illinois was 1,500 times less important ... au contraire, mon frère. I must take a page out of my friend Pat Robertson’s book. Thus, I begin my rant: 
“It (the earthquake) may be a blessing in disguise. Something hap­pened a long time ago in Illinois, and people might not want to talk about it. Illinoisans were originally under the heel of the Democrats. You know, Rod Blagojevich, or whatever. And they (the people of Illinois) got together and swore a pact to Barack Obama. They said, we will serve you if you will get us free from Rod Blagojevich. True story. And so, Barack Obama said, okay it’s a deal. Ever since, they have been cursed by one thing after the other.” The rest, as they say, is history. 
Tom Schuster 
junior O’Neill Hall Feb. 12 
BOWLING GREEN 

Olympics are brief time of world peace 
The Olympics are here, again. 
After their habitual four years of dor­mancy, the Winter Games return to the world stage in Vancouver, British Columbia. 
While many people couldn’t care less about the Olympics, I have been waiting 
Becky Tener 
for this for 17 months, since the 
The BG News 
Olympic flame in Beijing was extin­guished. 
And now I reflect on why the Olympics are so important to me, and why they’re important to the world. 
It goes like this: 
At a young age, it was instilled in me that the Olympics were a huge deal. My whole family would gather around the TV, embellished with my dad’s ‘60s phi­losophy “that these things only happen every four years, Bec. Enjoy them.” 
While most kids wore out copies of Disney or superhero movies, I watched the 1996 Olympic Gymnastics team win gold and Dan Jansen finally win for his sister over and over again. I also secretly know every word of the 2002 Opening Ceremonies, from many after-school viewings. 
I wanted to be Dorothy Hamlin, a ‘70s figure skater, for Halloween one year and I cried the day my ‘96 Atlanta hood­ie got a hole in it. 
But my love for the Olympics didn’t stop in my pre-teen years; they have always been a part of my life. In high school I wrote a thesis paper on the inter-workings of Olympic judging. I even got to interview an employee of the International Olympic Committee. In 2008 I ate, slept and breathed Michael Phelps’ road to eight gold medals, and the original 1984 cover of Newsweek with Mary Lou Retton, the first American to win the all-around title in gymnastics, is hanging on my wall. 
Last summer, I made a trip to Lake Placid to touch the actual goal where Mike Eruzione scored the game-winning shot against the Soviet Union in 1980, “Do you believe in Miracles?” 
But really, miracles are what the Olympics are all about. The world takes more than two weeks off for peace; there is nothing more miraculous than that. 
It’s the world as I wish it could be. 
And that’s why I love the Games so much. They’re more than a collection of sporting events; they’re a global recogni­tion that we are all human with indomitable passion and goodness. 
So whether you will follow the Olympics this year or not, there is defi­nitely a chance for amazing things to happen in Vancouver. 
Eight years ago, in the shadow of the Sept. 11 attacks, NBC anchor Bob Costas summed up the tone of the Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City and it still applies today. 
“The [Olympic] Flame that is lit tonight is not like any other. It’s not the fire of destruction but a light in the darkness.” 
This column first appeared in the Feb. 12 edition of The BG News, the daily publication serving Bowling Green State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 



Scene
page 12 Monday, February 15, 2010 


By BRANDY CERNE 
Scene Writer 
Tired of living in sweatpants and the lack of inspiration in not exactly fashion-forward South Bend? Turn your eyes towards Fall 2010 Fashion Week, which began in New York 
Jason Wu and Lacoste. The latest style of blazer seems to be double-breasted, seen at Ruffian and L.A.M.B. One trend that hope­fully will not be making a comeback in real-life wardrobes any time soon is the maxi-skirt, which was present in numerous shows so far. That is just a little too reminiscent of 
City Thursday. late-1990s teenagers. 
Now, it is easier than 
Now, it is easier than If just looking at the 
ever to imagine that you
ever to imagine that you beautiful clothes in the are one of the elite in the are one of the elite in the shows is not enough, there fashion world, due to the fashion world, due to the is real entertainment to be ability to see entire col-found in the behind-the­
ability to see entire
lections online only scenes action of the fashion moments after the shows collections online only industry. Two excellent doc-finish. Some designers, moments after the shows umentaries about giants in such as Marc Jacobs, the fashion world came out 
fnish.
Calvin Klein and Michael Kors, are even live streaming their shows online, making almost anyone feel like they have a ticket to a big-name fashion show. 
Unfortunately, the week started out on a tragic note, as designer Alexander McQueen was found dead from apparent suicide on Thursday morning. This event has cast a somber tone on what should be an exciting time for designers, editors and all fans of fashion. 
Luckily, there is always enough activ­ity and drama dur­ing Fashion Week to keep people on their toes and mov­ing from one show to the other quick­ly. Who will be the new up-and-com­ing designer? Which designers will strike out? What are the new fall trends? The answers to these questions are revealed little by little after each show. 
Thus far, critics are 
in 2009: “The September Issue” and “Valentino: The Last Emperor.” 
“The September Issue,” the better of the two films, docu­ments the making of the September 2007 issue of Vogue maga­zine, which is the biggest in the magazine’s history. It presents a fascinating portrait of the mysterious editor-in-chief Anna Wintour, who is without a doubt the most powerful person in the fashion industry. The contrast between Wintour and creative director Grace Coddington makes for some of the most interesting dynamics seen in any film in recent years, but it is made all the more appealing for the fact that it is real. “The September Issue” will 
be released on DVD on Feb. 23. 
“Valentino: The Last Emperor” is also worth seeing. Valentino Garavani is one of the most important design­ers in the world. This film follows him at the end of his long career. It is rare to get an inside 
look at how a leg­endary designer works and to see what inspires them. “Valentino: The Last Emperor” is available now on DVD. For those who 
would rather watch the rise 
hailing the collections If just looking at the of the future in fashion, shown by Peter Som, look no further than the 
beautiful clothes in the
Preen and Chado Ralph popular reality series Rucci. Chado Ralph shows is not enough, “Project Runway.” Now in Rucci presented an its seventh season, there is 
there is real 
upscale collection filled no doubt that this show has 
entertainment to be
with luxurious fabrics influenced the fashion such as fur and feathers. found in the behind-the-industry. Past contestants The Peter Som show had scenes action of the Christian Siriano and more of a bohemian feel Daniel Vosovic both showed 
fashion industry. 
to it, mixing prints and collections in the last few 
layering beads and tweed. Preen showed sil­houettes with both masculine and feminine elements. 
There have been many other emerging trends that do not need to be saved for fall. Thin long-sleeved T-shirts layered under sleeveless dresses were shown at BCBG. Chunky knits, which are necessary for South Bend weather, were on display at 
days. 
If you need a fashion fix, these are great options to get an intimate view of the important, the legendary, and the newest style-setters in the fashion industry. Fashion Week has only just begun, and there is much more glamour and excitement still to come. 

Contact Brandy Cerne at bcerne@nd.edu 
The Observer 


Scene
Monday, February 15, 2010 page 13 

By NICK ANDERSON 
Assistant Scene Editor 
It’s hard to place Lil Wayne in the rap canon. One thing is very clear: he is one of the most productive musicians of the past decade. In that time he’s released 10 albums and 23 singles and has been featured on over 50 other tracks as well as countless mixtapes. It almost seems as if the confusion is intentional. He’ll drop a top­10 hit like “A Mille” but then follow up with a song about playing basketball on a moon made of drugs. 
Besides music, the other 
defining characteristic of 
Lil Wayne is his prolific 
drug use. As displayed 
in his music, his rela­
tionship with illicit 
substances is 
rather complex. 
While his raps pro­
fess most often pro­
fess love for them, 
at times he 
appears 
conflict­
ed. It 
may 
be 
hand 
his 

t 
said 
th at 
rolled 
misde­meanors are the closest thing he has to a muse. 
Sometime shortly after 2006, Lil Wayne transformed into a rap star. While he had been moderately successful as an underground musician before then, his mixtape work caught the attention of critics, mainstream fans and indie kids. Riding this wave of newfound momen­tum, “Tha Carter III,” his fifth studio album, sold over one million copies in the first week, earned eight Grammy nominations and transformed Lil Wayne into the brightest star in the business. 
With several mainstream sources, including Rolling Stone and MTV, naming him the hottest MC in the game, Lil Wayne announced his follow-up album: “Rebirth.” Some confusion resulted from his first press release, but it was quickly clarified: “Rebirth” was no a remix album, it was going to be his rock debut. 
Listening to the album, it becomes clear that Lil Wayne spent his formative years in the post grunge wasteland of the 1990s. From the opening track, Lil Wayne’s understanding of rock music is, at best, warped. His inspiration is drawn from late period nu metal acts such as Korn and Limp Bizkit, whose commercial pull rightly ended at the turn of the millennium. Boring riffs, unin­spired choruses and forgettable verses populate the album. 
As for Lil Wayne’s actual performance, it leaves much to be desired. While his distinctive vocal attributes serve his now iconic flow well, their charms fade quickly when he starts singing. Barely surviving beneath heavy doses of auto tune, it just may not be possible for Wheezy to carry a tune. Wayne is also credited with a fair amount of the instrumentation across the album. While this seems a dubious claim at best, their truth wouldn’t make the effort any more impressive. Most of the backing music could have been written by a 15 year-old with two months of guitar lessons trying to impress his friends. 

Worst of all, Wayne falters where he normally shines: his lyrics. While his audience has come to expect elabo­rate metaphors, tight word play and copious punch lines, he instead delivers what he thinks should be in a rock song: vague anger, undirected aggression and a revenge narrative. 
Lil Wayne’s fruitlessly compiles beats, distortion and auto tune in an attempt at a futuristic sound, but instead sounds more like a computer program. He’s gathered all the pieces that would make a rock album, but just didn’t quite put them together correctly. Most importantly, the album is completely lifeless. 
After a stunning disappointment, his fans are left hop­ing this musical adventure is a diversion and not a com­pletely new path. Lil Wayne appears to have already moved on, already hyping his next projects including a collaborative effort with Juelz Santana and “Tha Carter IV.” 
Contact Nick Anderson at nanders5@nd.edu 

By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Scene Writer 
Friday night, students, parents, children and pro­fessors alike trudged through the snow banks and drifts and skated over patches of black ice to make it to the Winter Concert of the Notre Dame Symphony Orchestra at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC). 
Director Daniel Stowe started off the 
drifted over the audience. The ris­ing clarinets of the second theme brought more emo­tion and beauty to the score. Closing your eyes, while listening to the winds over the soft strings, it was easy to imagine yourself on the breathtaking, hilly Scottish isles, scrambling among the thatched roofs and rushing waterfalls. 

From there, the orchestra moved on to Aaron Jay Kernis’s “Air for Violin and Orchestra.” Kernis origi­nally wrote the piece, a lovely and moving air, for his wife, Evelyne. The piece began enthusiastically and sonorously, captivating its audience from the onset. As the air continued, it became more and more pas­sionate, until it tempered into the euphonious solo, played exquisitely by Carolyn Plummer on violin. After another short burst of passion and zeal, the work slowly ebbed to its conclusion. 
The violin solo was a beautiful, central part of the air. Plummer is an associate professor of music at Notre Dame with many impressive achievements to her name, having played in a number of orchestras across the United States, including some in Wyoming and Colorado. Her solo Friday night was heart-rend­ing in its passion. It lent even more emotion to an already heartfelt piece, striking cords in the hearts of all its listeners. 
After a brief intermission, Stowe concluded his night of beautiful music with Johannes Brahms’s “Symphony no. 2 in D major.” The immensely popu­lar Second Symphony gained the designation as Brahms’s “Pastoral Symphony,” despite the hints of melancholy found in the piece. The Notre Dame Orchestra played the famous symphony beautifully. 
The first movement began with a beautiful cello piece. After, the woodwinds and horns harmoniously followed in to create a tuneful movement. Especially moving was the use of trombones near the end, before the movement ended in what sounded almost like a sigh. 
The second and third movements were simple, yet beautiful. They combined rising countermelodies of bassoons with woodwind interludes and an oboe theme. At one point in the third movement, the rhythm closely resembled a country dance, but it worked in the overall simplicity of the movement. 
The fourth and final movement provided an excel­lent ending to the symphony and the concert as well. A quiet beginning morphed into a rise of energy and spirit. The intensity only contin­ued to increase with the majestic entrance of the trombones, giving breadth and emotion to the final movement. 
The night spent in DPAC with the Symphony Orchestra was extremely enjoyable, both the music and the atmosph ere. DPAC, with its fan­tastic acoustics and comfortable seats, provided a lovely background for the melodious night of music. 


Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at mdonne5@nd.edu 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH | Observer Graphic 
page 14 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Monday, February 15, 2010 


SMC TENNIS 
Belles get off to rough start 
By LUKE MANSOUR 
Sports Writer 
The Belles expected a battle heading into their season -opening match against non -conference 
opponent 
Case Western. Unfortunately, a seasoned Spartans team proved to be too much for the Belles to handle. 

Saint Mary’s (0-1) kicked 

off 
its season on a sour note, dropping its first dual meet to Case Western (1-0) by a score of 7-2 at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 


A slow start doomed the Belles’ hopes for a victory. Despite the tough loss, the Belles gained valuable experience by playing such a tough team early in the season. 
“I think that we can take a lot from the competitive match we had against Case Western, ” senior Camille Gebert said. “It will be a matter of adjusting to stronger teams like Case Western if we want to bring our play up a notch.” 
Junior Jillian Hurley agreed with Gebert ’s assessment of the match. 
“Although Case Western was such a tough team, it was beneficial to play them because playing more chal­lenging teams can help raise our games to a higher level,” she said. 
The Belles’ lone victories came from the No. 4 and No. 5 singles positions, where juniors Franca Peluso and Mary Therese Lee managed close wins over their Spartan counter­parts. After winning the first set 7-5, Peluso jumped out to a 4-1 lead over her 
opponent Corey Bowen. Bowen cut the deficit to 4­3, but Peluso held on for a 6-3 victory in the second set. 
At the No. 5 singles posi­tion, Lee cruised in the first set en route to a 6-1 victo­ry. The second set was a back -and -forth affair cial to start off the season with a tough match because it showed us that although we lost, we can keep up with teams at that level,” Hurley said. “I think despite our loss, all of us improved in some way from the match.” 
The Belles will now turn their attention to the end of the week when they face NAIA opponent Olivet ­Nazarene in a home dual 
before Lee was finally able to emerge victo­rious 7-5. It marked the first collegiate win for the junior. 
“At the bot­tom half [of the lineup], our team real­ly battled and had closer 
“It will be a matter of adjusting to stronger teams like Case Western if we want to bring our play up a notch.” 
Camille Gebert Belles senior 
meet. The Belles hope to continue to use the non -confer ­ence matches as a solid tune-up prior to the start of their con­ference schedule. 
“We will need to be ready to play 
scores, ” Gebert said. “I don’t think that the overall final score of our loss was a good reflection of how we played or how we felt out on the court.” 
The Belles started slow as they were swept at all three of the doubles posi­tions. The Belles’ top two players, Gebert and Hurley, struggled as they fell at the No. 1 and No. 2 singles positions. Hurley fell 6-1, 6-3 while Gebert suffered a 6-0, 6-0 defeat. 
Still, at such an early point in the season, players were eager to stress the positives that came out of the match. 
“It was incredibly benefi­from the start of the match, and we need to take advan­tage of any opportunities to gain early points with dou­bles, ” Gebert said. “We need to focus less on the result and more on improvement in general during our non-conference matches.” 
“Hopefully, [the Case Western match] will push everyone to step up for next week ’s match and reach that higher level, ” Hurley said. 
The match is scheduled for 6 p.m. Friday at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Luke Mansour at lmansour@nd.edu 
SMC SWIMMING 
Watson leads team to seventh place finish 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
The Belles did not end the week­end, and their season, the way they would have liked, finishing seventh with a total score of 241 at the MIAA Championships hosted by Calvin College. But just as they had hoped going into the meet, many individual swimmers came out with huge accomplishments. 
Freshman Ellie Watson started her first finals series with the Belles on a high note, breaking the school record in the championship heat for the 500-yard freestyle on the first day, finishing second in the preliminaries and advancing to the finals, where she earned a sec-ond-place medal with a time of 
5:09.90 minutes. 
“It feels really good to break the school record. All my hard work this season has finally paid off,” Watson said. 
Watson also finished fifth in the finals in the 400 individual medley with a time of 4:45.50 the second day. From there, things only got better when she ended the week­end with a second place finish and an NCAA B-cut time in the 1650 freestyle at 17:47.70. Now she must wait to see how other swim­mers in her event finished to determine whether or not she will advance to nationals. 
“For me this season has been great. I’ve put a lot of effort in and out of the pool. I am hoping my season is going to end on a high note,” Watson said. 
That first round of finals also ended with a 13th-place finish in the 500 freestyle from senior Sara Niemann. Additionally the Belles gained a fifth-place finish with a time of 1:41.29 for the 200 freestyle relay team of sophomore Barbara Beidler, freshmen Watson and Katie Griffin and senior Meredith Lierz. The 400 medley relay team of Beidler, Watson, Griffin and freshman Genevieve Spittler finished seventh in the finals with a time of 4:15.12. 
The second day continued with similar accomplishments as Griffin, freshman Caila Poythress and freshman Emily Pearl placed 12th, 14th and 16th respectively in the 100 backstroke at 1:01.21, 1:03.51 and 1:04.68. 
Other Belles advanced to the finals: Spittler finished 16th in the 100 butterfly at 1:02.90 and sixth in the 200 butterfly at 2:15.43 while Niemann and Biedler took 14th and 16th respectively in the 200 freestyle at 2:03.47 and 2:05.38. 
The weekend ended with anoth­er triumph for Watson, who joined Lierz, sophomore Megan Price and Griffin in the 400 freestyle relay team to a fifth place finish at 
3:43.83 and a second-best time for Saint Mary’s. 
Griffin took 13th in the 100 freestyle at 55.54 and Poythress and Pearl took 12th and 15th respectively in the 200 backstroke at 2:16.08 and 2:19.54. 
Seniors Niemann, Lierz and Maggie McNicholas ended their careers on high-note, each making the finals. Niemann finished 12th in the 1650 freestyle, Lierz placed 15th in the 100 freestyle and McNicholas took 12th in the 200 butterfly. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
NHL 
Blackhawks beat Blue Jackets; Kane injures knee in third 
Associated Press  shootout after injuring a knee in the third period, had Chicago’s first  Down 4-3 heading into a wild, chippy, end-to-end third period, the  tying score at 7:58. The teams traded scoring oppor- With just over 5 seconds left in the first period, the Blackhawks cut  
COLUMBUS,  Ohio  — Troy  goal. Jonathan Toews added two  Blue Jackets pulled even on the  tunities and punches the rest of  the deficit in half when Keith out- 
Brouwer scored in the fourth  assists.  second of a double-minor penalty  third period. Sharp and Torres  battled Nash for the puck at center  
round of the shootout to give the  Kristian Huselius had a goal and  assessed to Brouwer. Brouwer  fought late in regulation, then  ice and then carried it into the  
Chicago Blackhawks a 5-4 victory  an assist and scored in the shootout  jumped to the defense of Kane, a  Dustin Byfuglien had a dust-up  offensive zone. He dropped a pass  
over the Columbus Blue Jackets on  for Columbus, which dropped its  U.S. Olympian, after Kane was lev­ with a couple of Blue Jackets,  to Toews, who fed Kane for a hard  
Sunday night, sending the NHL into  second straight. Raffi Torres, Rick  eled on a hip check by Columbus  including goaltender Garon after  shot from the left dot that sliced  
its Olympic break with a flourish.  Nash and Fedor Tyutin added  defenseman Anton Stralman that  the Blackhawk jabbed at a puck in  inside the far post. The power-play  
Each team came back from  — goals.  resulted in Kane and Stralman's  Garon's glove.  goal was Kane's 25th of the year.  
and blew  — a two-goal deficit in  Kane’s goal in the second round  right knees slamming into each  The game will undoubtedly be  career to tie it early in the second  
regulation.  of the shootout was matched by  other. While Kane lay on the ice,  fodder for discussion on the flight  from all alone at the doorstep.  
Jake Dowell and Patrick Sharp  Huselius in the third round. After  Brouwer instigated a fight with  shared by Nash and Chicago’s  The Blackhawks then scored  
each had a goal an assist, and  Antoine Vermette failed to score for  Stralman.  Toews,  Brent  Seabrook  and  twice in less than two minutes.  
Bryan Bickell also had a goal for  the Blue Jackets, Brouwer’s fore­ Tyutin’s hard, rising slap shot  Duncan Keith. The Team Canada  Dowell ended up with the puck  
the Blackhawks, who won their  hand shot went high over goal- from the left point on the power  members flew out of Columbus  after two deflected passes and  
fourth in a row. Patrick Kane, who  tender Mathieu Garon on the stick  play went off the leg of Chicago  after the game to make it to the  picked up his first goal of the sea- 
bounced back to also score in the  side for the clincher.  defenseman Kim Johnsson for the  Olympic site in Vancouver.  son from low in the left circle.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
May you be poor in misfortune, rich 2 apartments available near down-If you or someone you care about A friend is someone special, in blessings, slow to make enemies
FOR RENT town SB 129 N. St. Louis Blvd PERSONAL has been sexually assaulted, we Sharing moments that are precious and quick to make friends. And may (between Jefferson St. &amp; can help. For more information, visit Always true, yet like a perfect dia-you know nothing but happiness Colfax St.) Both apartments 1000 Notre Dame's website: mond, Are rare and few. from this day forward. SF no deposit required $350.00 per UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do http.csap.nd.edu ——————————————— -Irish Toast person per month includes utilities not go it alone. Notre Dame has ——————————————— May you have warm words on a ——————————————— 
gradrentals.viewwork.com upstairs apartment 2/3 bedroom many resources in place to assist cold evening, a full moon on a dark 
——————————————— kitchen bath and livingroom you. If you or someone you love Need a free ride to to tanning? Call night, and a smooth road all the May the road rise to meet you. May $375.00 per month per person needs confidential support or assis-574-850-6062 for more information. way to your door. the wind be always at your back. includes utilities downstairs apart-tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at ——————————————— ——————————————— May the sun shine warm upon your ment 2 bedroom kitchen bath livin-1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For Always remember to forget face. May the rains fall soft upon 
2BR/2BA Finsh Bsmnt 2 Car GA 1 groom diningroom and laundry more information, visit ND's web "Fate knows where you are going, The troubles that passed away. your fields. And until we meet mile to campus $575/month Cell room. References and lease site: but it is up to you to drive there." But never forget to remember again, May God hold you in the hol­574-215-7785 required Please call 574-274-2110 http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu -Michelle Keesling The blessings that come each day. low of His hand. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Monday, February 15, 2010 
page 15 
NCAA Division I Men’s Wrestling NWCA Rankings 
team previous 
1 Kentucky 1 2 Kansas 2 3 Villanova 3 4 Syracuse 4 5 Michigan State 5 6 Texas 6 7 Duke 7 8 Gonzaga 9 9 West Virginia 10 10 BYU 11 11 Georgetown 12 12 Purdue 8 13 Kansas State 14 14 Tennessee 20 15 Temple 13 16 Wisconsin 17 17 Pittsburgh 15 18 Butler 18 19 Connecticut 16 20 Mississippi 19 21 Clemson 21 22 Georgia Tech 22 23 Vanderbilt 23 24 Ohio State 24 25 UNI 25 
NCAA Division I Women’s Gymnastics GymInfo Rankings 
team previous 
1 Oklahoma 2 2 Alabama 1 3 Arkansas 7 4 Utah 4 5 UCLA 6 6 Florida 3 7 Oregon State 5 8 Stanford 8 9 Georgia 9 10 Nebraska 10 11 LSU 12 12 Kentucky 11 13 Michigan 15 14 Auburn 16 15 Penn State 17 16 Iowa State 13 17 Missouri 14 18 Southern Utah 19 19 Denver 20 20 Illinois 23 21 Arizona 18 22 Michigan State 21 23 North Carolina State 22 24 Washington 24 25 Arizona State NR 


around the dial 
NCAA Women’s Basketball 
Connecticut at Oklahoma 9 p.m., ESPN2 
NCAA Men’s Basketball 
Connecticut at Villanova 7 p.m., ESPN 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Samuels key to Louisville’s upset of Syracuse 
Associated Press 
SYRACUSE, N.Y. — Samardo Samuels scored all eight of his points during a late surge and Jerry Smith sank a pair of clutch free throws with 17.8 seconds left and Louisville rallied for a 66-60 upset of No. 2 Syracuse on Sunday. 
Syracuse (24-2, 11-2 Big East), which held off Connecticut 72-67 on Wednesday night after squandering a 16-point lead in the second half, had won 11 straight since a loss to Pittsburgh. 
It was the fifth straight win over the Orange for Louisville (16-9, 7-5), which was 0-4 against ranked teams entering the game. 
Its last win over a ranked team was a 10-point tri­umph over Syracuse last March. 
Samuels scored his first points of the game on a pair of free throws with 7:46 left and followed with a hook off the glass to tie the game at 
50. Mike Marra’s 3 from the left corner gave the Cardinals a three-point edge and Samuels made a twisting layup through traf­fic to put Louisville up 55­52 with 5:14 left. 
Samuels’ dunk off an inbounds pass gave the Cardinals their biggest lead at 59-52 with 3:04 to go. 
Six straight free throws by the Orange closed the gap to 62-58 with 64 seconds remaining, but Syracuse was unable to score again after Kris Joseph’s slam dunk with 31.9 seconds left made it a two-point game. 
Joseph was then called for an intentional foul on Smith, who sank both free throws. 
Edgar Sosa and Marra each had 12 points to lead Louisville. Jared Swopshire had 10 points. 
Wes Johnson had 14 points, Andy Rautins and Arinze Onuaku each had 12, and Joseph 10 for the Orange. 
Rautins and Scoop Jardine missed 3-pointers in the final seconds and Rakeem Buckles’ slam at the buzzer ended the big win for Louisville, which finds itself on the bubble for 
IN BRIEF 
Georgian luger dies after high-speed crash 
VANCOUVER, British Columbia — A men’s Olympic luger from the coun­try of Georgia died Friday after a high-speed crash on a track that is the world’s fastest and has raised safety concerns among competitors. A tearful IOC president Jacques Rogge said the death hours before the opening ceremony “clearly casts a shadow over these games.” 
Nodar Kumaritashvili lost control of his sled during training, went over the track wall and struck an unpadded steel pole near the finish line at Whistler Sliding Center. Paramedics and doctors were unable to revive the 21-year-old luger, who died at a hospital, the International Olympic Committee said. 
“We are heartbroken beyond words,” said John Furlong, chief executive of the Vancouver organiz­ing committee. 
U.S. Medals for first time in Nordic Combine 
WHISTLER, British Columbia 
— The Americans broke through the Nordic combined barrier Sunday, winning their first Olympic medal in the sport domi­nated since its inception by the Europeans. 
But it could have been even better. 
Jason Lamy Chappuis — who was born in Missoula, Mont., but has always raced for France — overtook Johnny Spillane on the final straightaway for the gold medal, winning the individual race in 25 minutes, 47.1 seconds, four-tenths of a second ahead of Spillane. 
Italy’s Alessandro Pittin won the bronze, finishing eight-tenths of a second behind Chappuis and just ahead of American Todd Lodwick. 
the NCAA tournament and was in desperate need of a signature win. 
Sosa’s 3-pointer from the left wing with 13:24 left broke the third tie of the second half and gave Louisville a 42-39 lead. 
After three turnovers by the Orange and two more by the Cardinals as both teams repeatedly passed the ball around looking for an open man, Rautins hit consecutive 3s in transition in a 37-second span to put Syracuse back on top mid­way through the half. 
Syracuse never got its high-powered transition game untracked against the Louisville defense, which limited the Orange to 41.4 percent shooting. 
Crosby OK for Olympics after taking shot 
PITTSBURGH — Pittsburgh Penguins and Team Canada star Sidney Crosby said he was unhurt and headed to Vancouver for the Olympic tournament despite winc­ing in pain shortly after he took slap shot in Pittsburgh’s loss to Nashville on Sunday. 
“I will be there,” Crosby said after the 4-3 shootout loss to the Predators. Team Canada was scheduled to practice Monday and open against Norway on Tuesday. 
“I’m on the flight tonight,” he said. 
Crosby, who earlier tied Alex Ovechkin for the NHL goal lead with his 42nd, spent several min­utes on the bench with his head down after blocking a Kevin Klein slap shot about seven minutes into the second period of the last game before the NHL Olympic break. 
page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 15, 2010 
Seconds after the match swered blows to the head from began, Sullivan used his long Bulger, the referee stepped in to 
Bengal 
reach to his advantage and end the fight shortly before the continued from page 24 struck Ziccarelli in the face clock ran out on the second 
hard enough to dislodge the round. to evade his opponent for most junior’s mouth guard. The soph­of the second round. Leduska’s omore Sullivan remained on the Sean “The Machine” Mullen energy had clearly waned by offensive following the short def. Andrew “The Bristol the third round, though, as break, raining down an aerial Brawler” Dupont Lagoy mercilessly fired shots at assault on his opponent. Despite a strong effort by his face. The “Nightman” won Ziccarelli picked up steam in Dupont, Mullen took the match by split decision. the two subsequent rounds, by a split decision. In the first 
pummeling Sullivan’s face. round, both boxers traded Joseph “Sweet Cheeks” Ziccarelli went on to win by punches and neither emerged Decker def. Kyle Blanco split decision. as the stronger fighter. In the 
Both boxers began the fight Brian “The Good Thief” Heath third round, Mullen took advan­with a flurry of punches, but as def. Ryan “Hammer Flurry” tage of Dupont’s fatigue and time went on Decker estab-Schwab came out strong, landing many lished himself as the dominant Heath dominated the first body shots. A string of punches boxer in the fight. The O’Neill round, landing many punches that connected with Dupont’s freshman bloodied up Blanco’s to Schwab’s face. The senior face late in the third round con-nose and the fight was inter-used his smaller stature to his vinced the judges that Mullen rupted multiple times for med-advantage by dodging many of deserved the victory. ical attention for the Fisher Schwab’s punches. In the third sophomore. Decker dominated round, both boxers showed Matthew Lemanski def. Jim the third round and earned the their fatigue, but Heath’s domi-Woods unanimous victory. nance in the first round earned Woods took the early lead in 
him a unanimous victory. this fight, backing the sopho-Nicholas “The Guillotine” more Lemanski to the ropes match, landing hits to the head Schanzer def. Christopher BellGoode def. Josh Sandler Nick “Bronco” Bortolotti def. with a rapid series of hits. from every direction before he The senior Schanzer was 
The fight got off to an exciting Kary “Sweet Feet” Yergler Undaunted, Lemanski bounced was pushed back into his own dominant in the first round of start, as the two featherweights These two fighters tested each back, firing several critical corner shortly before the final the match. He landed many bludgeoned each other in the other with only a few quick jabs shots on the unguarded face of bell. Frailey won by split deci-forceful punches to the sopho­head relentlessly throughout exchanged in the first round as the junior. Woods came out sion. more’s face and the referee had the first round. By the second they danced about the ring. The swinging in the third round, fir-to stop the match multiple round, the sophomore Sandler tension boiled over in the sec-ing an uppercut at the face of Kevin “DiGiornio” Ortenzio times. Thirty-nine seconds into was still going strong, firing a ond round as the sophomore Lemanski, but failed to keep his def. Travis “The Corn-Shucker” the second round, the referee barrage of repeated body shots Bortolotti pounded Yergler in own gloves up long enough to Mathison stopped the match for the final in between furious lunges at the mouth as the junior took to stop a forceful right hook soon The two sophomores fought time and named Schanzer the Goode, forcing him to the ropes. the defense, backing away in before the bell sounded the end an even match, particularly in winner. The junior fought back with a retreat until the round ended. of the match. Lemanski won by the first round. Mathison’s couple of clutch headshots Yergler seemed to regain his split decision. fatigue allowed Ortenzio the Andrew Kristensen def. Phillip against his opponent before the composure in the third round, opportunity to pull away in the “Shoes” Lettieri round was over. The tide turned deflecting Bortolotti’s attacks Scott “Rawr!” Lahr def. Tom third round. In the beginning of Kristensen and Lettieri traded in the final round as Sandler and firing an uppercut to his “The Red Scare” Neuner the final round, Ortenzio got in the momentum throughout the flailed his gloves high and low jaw before Bortolotti overtook Lahr set the tone for the some quick shots to Mathison’s fight. Kristensen, a sophomore, but neglected to protect his face the tired Yergler once again. match in the first round, as he head. His final efforts gave him took the early lead by landing a from Goode, who struck several Bortolotti was victorious by knocked Neuner to the ground a victory by unanimous deci-right hook to Lettieri’s head. decisive blows during the unanimous decision. after multiple jabs to the head. sion. Lettieri, a freshman, recovered round. Goode won by split deci-In the second round, Neuner’s and kept Kristensen against the sion. Michael “In n’ Out” Burdell fatigue showed and Lahr con-151-pound Weight Division ropes for the rest of the round. 
def. Alessandro “The Silencer” tinued to dominate and demon-In the next round, Kristensen’s Anthony “El Gigante” Cardenas strate control with his punches. Tim “The Slayer” Thayer def. punches came up empty as Lucisano def. Nicholas Bock The boxers fought evenly in The sophomore was awarded Matthew “The 7-1-7” Anthony Lettieri maneuvered about the 
Neither fighter emerged with the first two rounds and traded the victory on a unanimous Senior captain Thayer estab-ring before getting struck with an advantage after the first punches. In the third round, decision. lished dominance in the ring an uppercut with his head round, as both boxers took medical personnel could not early, lunging fiercely at the down. Lettieri rebounded again advantage of their slim stop the freshman Cardenas’ Michael “Yo’ mamma” Anthony and pushing him in the third round lunging physique and swiftly danced nose from bleeding, and the ref-Murayama def. Thomas around the ring. A crucial aggressively at Kristensen, but around the ring. Lucisano eree stopped the fight in the “Shake n’ Bake” Enzweiler uppercut from the senior Kristensen avoided the desper­emerged as the top boxer of the third round, naming the senior Murayama started this battle caused Anthony to lose his foot-ate attempts long enough to pair in the second round, which Burdell the winner. of juniors well as he ducked ing as he struggled to fend off come away with the victory. was stopped so that Bock could below the arms of the lanky the vicious attack. In the second receive medical attention. It Matthew Dobleman def. Enzweiler, countering with a round, the sophomore appeared Andrew “Fess the Mess” was Lucisano’s efforts in the Michael “I’m not” French few well placed jabs to the winded and was again knocked Fessler def. Timothy “G-third round that ultimately won Dobleman wasted no time in body. Murayama aimed high in off balance after catching a Money” Gannatti him the match by a split deci-establishing his presence in this the second round with mixed glove to the head in the second The two sophomores traded sion. match, forcing the freshman success as Enzweiler was able round. Thayer continued to blows in the first round. The 
French to constantly dodge the to use his long reach to deflect chase Anthony around ring second round continued the 140-pound Weight Division lightning fast jabs dished out to Murayama’s advances and bat-before delivering one last clean trend as both competitors 
him by the senior. Dobleman tle back with defensive jabs. By shot to the skull as the referee fought aggressively and focused Michael Johnston def. Bradley used his tall stature to his the final round, both competi-decided to stop the fight early. on jabs to the head and body. In Sena advantage, firing headshots tors were struggling to keep the third round, with the help of 
The senior Johnston estab-from above. French was quick their gloves up. Murayama won Ethan “Chomp Chomp” Hatch an enthusiastic cheering sec­lished the early lead in this fight to respond with swift jabs to the in a split decision. def. Steven “Shakey Hands” tion, Fessler put forth a strong against the freshman Sena. body. French was visibly tired Echenique final effort and planted punches After breaking free from a flur-by the third round and strug-Mike “It’s All About the Q” Both boxers came out with to Gianatti’s head. Fessler won ry of punches from the hands of gled to keep his head up. Quigley def. John “The strong, aggressive punches in in a split decision. Sena, Johnston fell against the Dobleman seized the opportuni-Spaniard” Flores the first round. Hatch’s jab to ropes and, regaining his compo-ty to land two thudding upper-The sophomore Quigley used Echenique’s face in the second Matt “Manimal” Roesch def. sure, propelled himself forward cuts to his face causing the ref-his height advantage early in round knocked the Fisher soph-Kevin “Get off my Lawn” Plude to land a right hook to Sena’s eree to stop the contest early. the first round as he landed omore to the ground and estab-Roesch used his speed to his head. Johnston caught some multiple punches to the fresh-lished Hatch as the favorite in advantage in this match, driving shots to the head in the second Albert Toscano def. Timothy man’s face and body. Quigley the match. The third round saw Plude to the ropes as the sopho­round as he measured up his “Timbo Slice” Kissling continued to dominate in the fatigue and sloppiness on the more tried to keep his face pro-opponent and came up big in The two sophomores traded second round as Flores looked part of both fighters. Hatch’s tected from the storm of fists the third round, causing Sena to punches in an even first round. outmatched. Quigley’s constant second round effort was enough directed at him. Intent on gain-lose his footing. Johnston won Kissling began to tire in the sec-aggression and furry of punches to give him the victory by split ing the upper hand, Plude bat-by unanimous decision. ond round and Toscano lined up to Flores’ head earned him the decision. tled back in the second round 
multiple body shots, finishing unanimous victory. unleashing a barrage of punch-Kareem “Stunna” Salem def. the match strong. The judges Michael “Face for the Radio” es at the freshman Roesch, Nicholas “The Arab Express” awarded Toscano the victory by Killian “’s Irish Red” Frailey Magill def. Stephen “Here including a wicked hook that Rowek unanimous decision. def. Tyler “Dane the Train” Comes Trouble” Mattingly briefly caused him to lose his 
Salem dominated the first Zimmerman Magill outlasted Mattingly in footing. In the third round, round, as his quickness on his 147-pound Weight Division Zimmerman started the this hard-fought battle. The Roesch pinned Plude to the feet prevented Rowek from match off with an aggressive sophomore Magill deflected and ropes once again, struggling to landing many punches. Rowek Kieran Bulger def. Robert flurry of shots on the freshman countered several early subdue his opponent as shot utilized a second round inter-“Hamburgler” Berger Frailey, keeping him on the attempts by Mattingly and the after shot bounced off the ruption due to equipment prob-The veteran Bulger over-defensive throughout most of two exchanged numerous jabs gloves of the tenacious defend­lems to his advantage, as he whelmed his freshman oppo-the first round. Frailey fought before the round was over. The er. Roesch won by split decision. came out of the break rested nent, pinning him to the ropes back with several methodically junior was still in the match as and aggressive. The Keough while showering him with shots placed blows to the head and the second round began, but Bobby Powers def. Ryan Carey freshman could not beat the to the skull to establish an early body of the senior, backing him gradually his energy waned as Powers had the upper hand in technical and practiced Salem, lead. The second round saw to the ropes. Zimmerman Magill kept him on the ropes this match of juniors and estab­but Rowek’s final efforts did Bulger showcasing his footwork regained his composure and while parrying and deflecting lished himself as the stronger lead to a split decision, albeit in as Berger flailed his arms in responded with a hard strike to most of the shots thrown his boxer by using many powerful favor of Salem. vain, unable to land a solid hit Frailey’s head. Zimmerman way. Magill was the winner by left-right combinations. While 
on his opponent. After connect-nearly lost his footing in the unanimous decision. Carey was able to land a few Andrew “The A-train” ing with an uppercut to the third round as the speedy Ziccarelli def. Bobby Sullivan head and a series of unan-Frailey took control of the Tommy “The Hebrew Hammer” see BOUTS/page 17 

Monday, February 15, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
offering many powerful blows Kyle “No Name Just Game” King was able to take advan-In the first round, both that weakened Cunningham Kober def. Greg “Pronounce tage of the fact that Foster was Newman and fellow freshman 
Bouts 
substantially. In the second This” Abbracciamento not protecting his face. King Oloriz showed each other round, Cunningham came back Neither fighter laid claim to was the winner in a split deci-detrimental blows, but 
continued from page 16 
a different boxer, full of energy an advantage in the first round sion. Newman grew weaker and let jabs to Powers’ head, Powers’ and making up for the ground of this bout, but in the second his guard down. After the first counter-attack was too much he lost in the first round. A round the freshman Kober James “Jimbo Slice” Bowers break, Newman recovered for Carey. Powers won by unan-powerful left hook from landed multiple solid punches def. Matthew “The Victorious slightly but could not to stay imous decision. Cunningham in the third round on the senior, which caused the Secret” Labriola energetic enough to match up 
led Kemp into the corner. In fight to shift into Kober’s favor. In the first round, both the to Oloriz. In an important third 155-pound Weight Division the end, Cunningham’s ability After a good exchange in the freshman Labriola and the round for each of the boxers 
to put up a fight in the second third, Kober landed a vicious sophomore Bowers came out Newman’s fist hit the ground, Chris “The Situation” Losco and third rounds did not make left right before the final bell firing, but neither could land a showing he was gradually get-def. Kyle “Serve Chilled” up for the many points that and claimed the unanimous decisive blow as both fighters ting more tired toward the end Bailey Kemp got in the first round as decision. had most of their attacks miss of the fight. Oloriz won in a 
The freshman Losco defeated the judges unanimously or be deflected. The second unanimous decision. the junior Bailey in an evenly-declared Kemp as the victor. 160-pound Weight Division round was another even show-matched fight. Early in the first down as the two traded off 163-pound Weight Division round, Bailey got Losco into a John “The Caucasian Asian” John “My Body is a going on the offensive. By the corner against the ropes. Crabtree def. Samuel Wonderland” Maier def. Chad end of the third, both fighters Jordan Bucci def. Jeffrey Despite his disadvantage in the Wengryn “Louisville Slugger” Lavelle looked tired and saw their “Little Bear” Ulrich first round, Losco came back After a first round in which Both boxers came out swing-punches have decreased effec-Bucci came out immediately looking more energetic in the both Crabtree and Wengryn got ing after the opening bell with tiveness. After the final bell, it on the offensive, forcing Ulrich second round, and carried that their fair amount of shots in, senior captain Maier taking the was decided by split decision to the defensive for most of the energy with him through the Crabtree took over in the sec-more balanced approach and that Bowers had the better first round. Ulrich covered up remainder of the round, toss-ond round. Despite law student the freshman Lavelle employ-fight. well, though, and was able to ing detrimental blows to the Wengryn’s decided height ing a wild, unpredictable strat-land some counters of his own. tiring Bailey. In the final advantage, the junior was able egy. After an even first round, Kevin Goodwin def. Andrew The second round was similar round, Bailey was able to hold to land a steady dose of both Maier began to take over in the “The Juggernaut” Oksonka with the senior Bucci landing his ground with a few combi-head and body punches. With a second, as the referee stopped Goodwin defeated Oksonka some heavy blows to the head of nation throws, but was unable wicked left hook the chin, to check on Lavelle. By the end as the referee called the fight Ulrich. After the referee stopped to convince the judges he was Wengryn went down and of the third round, both fight-halfway into the second round. to check on the freshman, Bucci the better boxer as they made Crabtree got the knockout. ers looked fatigued by the flur-Right from the beginning of the landed another heavy shot to a split decision in favor of ry they had displayed in the fight, the senior was able to the head, using momentum Losco. Adam “Mad” Cowden first two rounds. But, at the establish himself as the more from a bounce off the rope to 
“Disease” def, Eric Monzon end of the final round, the ref-dominant in the ring, but the land it. In the third, the tide dra-Andrew Bachinskas def. Cowden took an early lead eree ended up calling the fight sophomore Oksonka did a good matically turned as Ulrich got Steven Hollis over his fellow sophomore, a in favor of Maier after a strong job protecting himself during quickly back into the fight by 
In what was a one-sided lead which he kept for the combination. the first round. Oksonka began going on the offensive, turning match for most of the bout, the duration of the fight. Though the second round a little more what was a lopsided bout into a senior Bachinskas was able to Cowden brought Monzon to the Colin “The Lion” King def. energized, but could not keep contentious match. However, outlast Hollis as both fighters ropes early in the first round, John “The Boy Who Lived” up with the relentless Goodwin Ulrich’s hole was too big to tired in the third round. Monzon was able to escape Foster as Oksonka suffered incredibly climb out of and Bucci won by a Bachinskas was on the offen-before any crucial damage was Even though the freshman from a combination punch unanimous decision. sive for most of the fight, and done. Later in the round, King fell early in the round, he from Goodwin. two good shots to the sopho-Monzon started to tire and his bounced back quickly in his Adrian “Yo Adrian” Moreno more’s head sealed the unani-throws were increasingly off defeat of Foster. After getting Daniel “Cabbage Patch” def. Kevin “The Recruit” Dacey mous decision in Bachinskas’ target. The second round was back up again, King rushed the Chapman def. Ted “Hook Early in the first round, the favor. particularly evenly matched as sophomore into a corner ener-‘em” Horn senior Dacey rushed Moreno 
both Cowden and Monzon were getically and showed Foster The fellow Griffins came out into the ropes, but his imbal-William “Gary Meyers” Kemp able to get substantial blows to both left and right hook shots. with a continuous exchange of ance led him to fall. In the sec-def. Greg “Blackout” their opponents in before the In the second round, King easi-combinations to the body and ond round, the sophomore Cunningham bell rang. With 40 seconds left ly got Foster back against the head. The two went back and attempted to weaken his 
The senior Kemp used his in the third round, Cowden ropes, but Foster dodged, forth in the second round as already tiring opponent by aim-height to his advantage as he served Monzon a series of com-causing King to lose his bal-well as both landed their fair ing for Dacey’s body. Dacey defeated Cunningham by aim-bination punches that led the ance and almost fall for the share of solid punches. The responded with the same ing for combination punches to judges to decide unanimously second time of the fight. Just constant battle fatigued the approach to weaken Moreno. the sophomore’s head. In the that Cowden was the winner. as Foster looked like he was in pair, however, and by the end Dacey held his ground into the first round, Kemp led the fight, good position to weaken King, of the fight each boxer was third round as Moreno started 
thoroughly tired and neither to get tired, but the sophomore could land a solid punch with swung the judges’ votes with a effectiveness. In a split deci-left hook shot with two seconds sion, the sophomore Chapman left. Moreno won in a split deci­advanced over the junior. sion. 
James “Rambo” Fultz def. Andy Nester def. Andrew Cameron “C-Money” Dow “Habanero” Forero 
Fultz defeated his fellow Nester came out on the offen­freshman Dow with a technical sive, but graduate student knock-out call from the referee Forero did a good job of dodging halfway into the second round. and covering up when necessary At the start of the first round, and landing counterpunches. In Dow looked like he would last the second round, Nester came the fight as he chased Fultz back out on the offensive, but against the ropes and took Forero, once again, kept the advantage of the few instances senior honest, and recovered. that Fultz left his face unpro-After a few good right hands by tected. As the first round came Nester, the referee called the to a close, Dow looked tired, fight and Nester won by a tech-dizzy and in need of a new nical knockout. strategy to defeat the more athletic Fultz. In the second Ryan “The Show Stopper” round, Dow threw more detri-Shestak def. Xavier “The mental hits, but he grew weak-Nicaraguan Heymaker” er with each punch. The refer-Navarro ee stopped the fight because In the first round, MBA stu-Dow was hardly able to stand. dent Navarro looked more ener­
getic than Shestak but was los-Joseph “McManimal” ing his balance early in the McMahon def. Michael fight. In the second round, the “Sleeper” McHale senior Shestak dominated the 
After the starting bell, both ring with a series of combina­fighters seemed to be going for tion throws that Navarro was broke, trying to land a decisive not able to recover from as he blow in the first round. Both fell to the floor. In the third fighters adopted a rather round, Navarro stayed alive, unorthodox style, each gam-showing Shestak a few powerful bling with long, reaching hooks throws he had saved, but ulti­and often leaving themselves mately could not defend himself vulnerable by getting off-bal-well enough. Shestak won in a ance. The third round was unanimous decision. more of the same, the two giv­ing everything they had. But in James “Marshall Law” the end, the junior McMahon Ouderkirk def. Seamus “The was named victor over the Moose” Laird sophomore McHale in a split Ouderkirk neutralized the jun-decision. ior Lard’s distinct advantages in 
height and reach with good 
Alex “Gatito Loco” Oloriz def. Chris Newman see RIPPER/page 18 

page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 15, 2010 
the ring. Madden protected third and each was able to momentarily stopped the fight Skelly used his height advan­himself well, but could not land solid blows both to the in the 3rd round, which pro-tage to keep him at bay. 
Ripper 
get the hits in he needed to head and body. The two pelled him to victory. Skelly’s punches eventually continued from page 17 for securing the win. In the looked like they could go took too much of a toll on 
final seconds, Abercrombie another three rounds after John Bollman def. Alexander Roman. form. In a tumble of body shots, threw combination punches the final bell, but the judges “McGoats” Lewis the two ended up on the mat in that led to his unanimous vic-named Bennett the champion Bollman dominated all Matthew “Cool and Tough” a bundle, which was indicative tory. by unanimous decision. three rounds of the match, Paletta def. Joseph “Colonel of how the fight went. In the cornering Lewis multiple Klinker” Klinker third round, the two exchanged Jason “Pretty Boy” Miller 173-pound Weight Division times. Despite ending the Both fighters held their own several good shots, but the sen-def. Michael Savage final round with a shot to the throughout the match. ior Ouderkirk got the better of Miller came out of the gates Alex Kissinger def. Peter face from Lewis, Bollman eas-Nonetheless, Paletta dominat­the exchanges. In the end, on fire, immediately putting “Fists Don’t Lie” Mitchell ily took the match in a split ed all three rounds, cornering Ouderkirk won by a unanimous Savage on the mat. Savage In the first round, Kissinger vote. Klinker on several occasions. decision. recovered however and came immediately got law student Michael “Nobody Puts Baby Despite a series of strong 
back with a flurry of his own. Mitchell against the ropes, in a Corner” Urciouli def. punches from Klinker, Paletta Steven Brownwell def. Caleb In the second, Savage showing him the menacing Paul “Iceman” Amiri won in a unanimous decision. Laux switched roles and came out threat of his power punching Urciouli’s energy from the 
Even though the senior Laux as the aggressor. But Miller ability. The second round opening bell enabled him to 180-pound Weight Division started off strong, throwing was able to turn it around looked like a repeat of the prevail over the younger the first of the match’s dam-again and put Savage back on first as the senior chased Amiri in a unanimous deci-Mike Doran def. Leo “Kid aging punches, he was the ropes. Through a steady Mitchell against the ropes sion. The junior Urciouli took Italy” Dipiero defeated by Brownwell with a barrage by both boxers in the again. Mitchell began to lose control of the fight with a Doran, the 2009 runner-up technical knockout halfway third, Miller outlasted his poise and almost his bal-flurry of body shots in the in the 175-pound division, through the second round. At Savage’s return and claimed ance towards the end of the first round and was able to prevailed in a unanimous the end of the first round, the the victory in a split decision second round. A right upper-slip away from the sophomore decision over the upstart junior served Laux a right-on the scorecard. cut throw from Kissinger to Amiri’s counter-attacks for freshman Dipiero. Dipiero handed hook shot that Laux start the third round clinched most of the bout. By the third started the fight countering was not able to recover from. Nicholas Severyn def. Corey the victory, but Mitchell con-round, Amiri was too tired to the favorite Doran punch for During the second round, Scott tinued to fight despite his mount a comeback and punch. However, as the fight Brownwell took over the In the first round, the junior inability to keep up with his Urciouli coasted to the victo-wore on the junior consistent-fight, pinning Laux to the Severyn went for Scott’s head opponent. Kissinger won by ry. ly landed punches to Dipiero’s ropes numerous times before and body. The sophomore had unanimous decision. upper body and head. Doran’s the referee called the fight. the upper hand after the first Jake Joe def. Zachary “The endurance was evident as he 
round because of a powerful Jose Aguirre def. Andrew Southern Sledgehammer” dominated the final round. Keenan “Mr. Chops” Duffey right hook shot that caught “This Isn’t Where I Parked Overbey def. Jonathan “The Cuban Severyn as the bell was about My Car” Mitsch Joe and Overbey were full David “Played and It Missile Crisis” Perez to ring. In the second round, All it took was one round of energy as they began the Pleased the Lord ” 
Perez came out with the ini-the fight changed in favor of for Aguirre to acquire a victo-first round, with both sides Fosselman def. Adam “The tial blows in this battle of Severyn, a lead he held for ry. After dominating the throwing a series of fast Flying Otter” Twardizik sophomores, bloodying Duffey the duration of the remaining beginning of the short first punches. The second round The first round brought a with a few stiff shots to the two rounds based on his abili-round, Aguirre ended it began with Joe coming out quick advantage to Fosselman head. After the fight was ty to effectively utilize his halfway through by knocking strong, proving his domina-when he knocked down stopped several times own powerful right hook. Mitsch completely out of the tion. The final round included Twardizik twice, despite because of the bleeding, After a close fight, Severyn ring. plenty of action from both Twardizik’s height advantage. Duffey came back firing and won in a split decision. sides, and the match ended Twardizik came out fighting took advantage of Perez’s Kevin “The Night Man” Kray with a split decision in favor at the beginning of the second fatigue. In the third, both Robert Manfreda def. def. Tyler “Everyday I’m of Joe. and his strong push continued came out firing and both Thomas “The Tank Engine” Husslin’” DeBoer throughout the second round, ended up bloody. After a good Dybicz Kray held his ground Connor “The Skellator ” but Fosselman came back exchange that got the better The first round consisted of against an extremely aggres-Skelly def. Andrew “Glass even stronger in the third, of Perez, the referee stopped a constant exchange between sive DeBoer to win a split City” Roman making the match a very the fight and Duffey won by the two, each matching the decision in this battle of jun-The very physical fight competitive one. Fosselman’s unanimous decision. other blow for blow. After iors. DeBoer came out throw-ended with the sophomore successes of the first round 
Manfreda landed a few solid ing an array of punches, Skelly prevailing over the law paid off, and the judges Matt Hopke def. Ryan blows to the head, Dybicz was which Kray deftly dodged as student Roman in a split deci-decared him a unanimous “Dirty” Alberdi bloodied and slowed down. few punches were landed. sion. Though Roman who was winner. 
In the first round, the fresh-But in the third, neither fight-Kray kept his cool and landed buoyed by one of the biggest man Alberdi aimed for the er did much to separate him-a number of headshots that cheering sections of the day, see HAMMER/page 19 body with hopes of weakening self on the scorecard, and the the senior, but was unsuc-decision was left to the cessful as Hopke’s long reach judges. On the scorecard, put him in a good position to Manfreda was named the vic­defend himself. Alberdi tor by split decision in what entered into the second round was one of the closest match-looking athletic and ready to es of the day. put up a fight as he pinned Hopke against the ropes. At David “Mountain Man” Cray the end of the third round, def. Dan “Cha -Ching ” Alberdi began to noticeably Jasinski fatigue, and Hopke won in a Cray saved the best for last unanimous decision. in his defeat of Jasinski. The 
junior used the strategy of 166-pound Weight Division going directly for Jasinski’s 
head, hoping to send his Jack “The Ripper ” Healy opponent into an early daze def. Trevor “The Combine” he could not escape from. Menke Law student Jasinski threw 
Healy came out strong after the most powerful throw of the opening bell and put the round with a left jab. In Menke on his heels. However, the second round, Jasinski Menke stuck in amidst the reciprocated with a left jab fray and landed some shots of that left Cray dizzy, but Cray his own. The second round won the round with right jabs was dead even as each was towards the end that swung able to get in good shots in the fight in his favor. Both the exchanges. At the start of boxers began the third round the third, Healy came out fir-full of energy in a close con­ing with a fury of lightning-test where each exchanged quick combos and knocked blows evenly, but Cray’s final Menke down. Although blood-power combination punches ied, Healy managed the rest gave him the unanimous vic­of the third and won by unan-tory. imous decision. 
Gregory Bennett def. Kasey Michael “Caveman ” “Pound Town” Suryan Abercrombie def. Mick Both fighters came out “Lovin’” Madden strong. Bennett wanted to be 
Each boxer showed his the aggressor, but Suryan strategy in the first round countered enough to keep when each went directly for him at bay. After an enter-power punches over his oppo-taining first, the two went to nent’s head. Neither boxer into the second round even. focused on defense in a heavi-The second was just as close ly offensive fight. The junior with Bennett working Suryan Madden pinned Abercrombie over as Suryan exchanged in against the ropes during the kind. In what appeared to be second round, but the sopho-a fight that would come down more easily jumped back out to conditioning, the two went to establish his dominance in blow for blow again in the 

Monday, February 15, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 19 
landing combos in the first landed more en route to a round, which seemed to aggra-unanimous victory over the 
Hammer 
vate the captain. Ponzio then sophomore Garrity. Both fight-
continued from page 18 channeled his anger into a ers seemed to have good number of furious combos in endurance and neither suffered close range, leading to a knock-any visible injuries but the deci-
Giacomo “Il Capo” Minafra down at the close of the fight. sive factor in the bout was that def. Lorenzo “El Nino” Hasson’s punches landed more Sanchez Preston Bennett def. “Big” often and more consistently. 
In a fight that would have Ben Ferry made any of his fellow Ferry had the height advan-John Zivalich def. Christopher Zahmbies proud, the sopho-tage, but Bennett’s strength “The Jersey Devil” LaCosta more Minafra rode an unrelent-evened the playing field. The LaCosta’s experience as a ing and wild style to a unani-first round remained fairly neu-sophomore quickly became mous victory over his fellow tral, with both fighters throw-apparent with his fighting style, sophomore. Minafra’s lefty ing punches. Bennett came out but freshman Zivalich never fighting stance seemed to throw hard to begin the second round, hesitated to fight back. LaCosta Sanchez off, as he was unable but Ferry fought back. At the started the second round by to keep Minafra off the offen-start of the third round, cornering Zivalich, but he easily sive for the entire fight. Bennett’s efforts finally paid off slipped away and used his 
when his powerful punches height to stay in the match. The Alex “Mac Attack” Macomber knocked Ferry to the ground. final round played out fairly def. Brian “Polish Thunder” From there, Bennett’s control evenly, with both fighters com-Kachmarck was clear, and he won the ing out ready. In the end it was 
Both sides came out swinging match unanimously. the rookie Zivalich who came aggressively to begin the fight, out on top by a split decision. and the first round ended with-Brian “Half-man, Half-hair” out a clear advantage to either O’Connor def. Matthew “Chew Patrick “The Paddy” Handy side, but the second round ‘em Up” Enzweiler def. Pat “Samuel L.” Jackson showed a change of pace when The junior O’Connor used a The freshman Handy defeated tained his poise and stayed in Within seconds of the bell, Macomber took over the ring. combination of elusive defense the senior Jackson in this enter-the fight the whole time but his Hsu took control and main-Despite a few bloody noses for and strategic headshots to play taining and lively bout. Handy wiry, tall frame had a tough tained it throughout the match, Macomber, he managed to cor-on the freshman Enzweiler’s had trouble early landing time with “The Tank,” who swinging constantly as fresh­ner Kachmarck and make his offensive style, as O’Connor punches against Jackson, who punched him into submission en man Toombs tried to hold off mark. Macomber’s distinction took the unanimous decision. kept a stronger and more bal-route to a unanimous decision. the punches. The second round lasted until the end, when he O’Connor’s consistent head-anced stance. Ultimately, began just as the first had, as earned a unanimous decision. shots appeared to take their though, Handy’s power pre-Chistopher Orenchuk def. Hsu cornered Toombs time and 
toll, as by the end of the bout vailed as a strong right hook Matthew “The Heathen time again. Toombs came into Nicholas “It’s-a-ME-a” Ponzio the freshman Enzweiler was knocked down Jackson and Hunter” Stolze the final round stronger than def. Daniel “Danimal” Balcarel visibly wobbly and unable to allowed Handy to land thunder-The fighters traded series of the previous two, but his efforts 
This fight, between Bengal put together any decent combi-ous headshots as he continued punches in the first round, but fell short of the raw strength of Bouts senior captain Ponzio and nations. to a split decision victory. neither was able to grab control Hsu. After three rounds of the freshman Balcarel, of the match. Orenchuk came almost complete domination, appeared to be a mismatch on Dominic “Warsaw War Timothy Wallace def. Eric out ready to fight in the second Hsu was awarded a unanimous paper. However, Balcarel kept Hammer” Golab def. Matthew “Boybert” Herbert round, and despite the returned victory. the fight close and Ponzio “Matt” Losego Wallace came out aggressive-competition from Stolze, it escaped with a split decision Both fighters came out quick-ly in the first round, knocking became clear that Orenchuk John “Papi” Tchoula def. victory. Balcarel wrapped up ly, but when things slowed Herbert down early. From was not going to leave without a “Mighty” Michael Diaz Ponzio a couple times after down toward the end of the there, he only continued to win. Things slowed down in the The freshman Diaz had no 
first round, Golab seemed to power over the younger third round, but Orenchuk’s answer for the technically come out on top. Golab proved Herbert. Wallace continued his intensity lasted long enough to impressive Tchoula, who held his superiority in the second control until the end, especially give him the victory in a unani-his ground and pounded Diaz round, knocking Losego off his showing through in the final mous decision. with numerous headshots in feet. Losego came out of his fall round. Despite a good slew of what appeared to be an easy looking for revenge, but was punches from Herbert, Wallace Jason Healy def. Joseph victory for the junior. Tchoula faced once again with Golab’s won the match by a unanimous Tingey physically overpowered his unyielding punches. Golab vote. The junior Healy physically inexperienced opponent in all solidified his control in the third dominated the overmatched three rounds and by round two round with a series of hits right Adam “The Sultan of Swing” MBA student Tingey en route to he was content to defend him-to Losego’s face, and ended the Zaabel def. Ryan “I Listen to a technical knockout. Healy’s self and strategically land jar-match with a unanimous win. the E-Trade Baby” Landsberg punches were so powerful and ring headshots to Diaz as he 
The sophomore Zaabel, a relentless that Tingey spent coasted to the unanimous deci­189-pound Weight Division lefty, dominated this fight most of the fight in a defensive sion. 
against the senior Landsberg en stance and could not mount Bernardo “Blue” Garcia def. route to a unanimous victory. much of an offensive attack. Heavyweight Division Matthew Reedy Zaabel compensated for a dis-Ultimately, the fight became too 
The junior Garcia seemed to advantage in height with quick one-sided and the referee Kyle “Chief” Roque def. Jeffrey overpower the law student hands that landed a flurry of decided to stop it early. “Broneill” O’Neill Reedy as the referee ended the punches throughout all three Roque’s height advantage fight five seconds into the 2nd rounds. As a result, he wailed Brian “Caesar” Salat def. JP instantly proved to also be an round. Garcia strung together a consistently on Landsberg’s Foley overall advantage. A shot to number of resounding head-upper body and head and the Freshman Salat came out O’Neill’s nose early in the first shots and the fight was stopped outcome was never in question. instantly swinging relentlessly, round ended the match with a a number of times in the first using his height to overpower victory for Roque. alone. Once the bell rang to William “The Italian Stallion” law student Foley the entire start the second round, Garcia Straccia def. Jonathan Baker first and second round. Foley Timothy “Silky Smooth” unleashed a furious combina-The first round began with began the final round full of life, Latham def. Nolan “Keep On” tion, which spelled the end for neither side having an advan-but Salat quickly regained con-Welsh Reedy. tage, but toward the end trol, taking the match in a In a very close bout, the two 
Straccia began to take control unanimous vote. heavyweights traded crushing Christopher “Stubs” Sarkis with a series of shots to Baker’s blows for three rounds. Welsh def. Reid “The Captain” face, drawing blood and ending Luke Scullion def. Pat “In the used a bit of a size advantage to Paape the round exhibiting a clear Hat” Behrens stay on the offensive, but ulti-
Neither freshman showed a advantage. Baker ended the In a bout that lasted just 30 mately the senior Latham used lack of experience, but Sarkis’s second round with a series of seconds, Scullion, the gigantic his experience and guile to land fierce tactics quickly revealed powerful shots, but Straccia MBA student from Britain, more punches and score the themselves. In the first round, refused to back down in the pounded the sophomore split decision victory by main-Paape fought back, cornering third round and continued his Behrens into oblivion. The audi-taining his poise on the defen-Sarkis, but during the second powerful streak into the end, ence could practically feel sive and landing strategic com-round Sarkis showed no mercy, when he won by a unanimous Scullion’s punches as he pum-binations. continuously connecting with decision. meled Behrens’ face, causing Paape’s face and drawing the referee to stop the fight Contact Kevin Baldwin at blood. The match ended with a 205-pound Weight Division quickly. Scullion used his enor-kbaldwi2@nd.edu, Kaitlyn unanimous vote in favor of mous frame and long reach to Murphy at kmurph28@nd.edu, Sarkis. Francis “The Tank” Conway protect his body as he mounted Molly Sammon at 
def. Rob “Jolly Green” Ray a one-sided offensive. msammon@nd.edu, Matt Jim Hasson def. Joe “Boy In this battle of sophomores, Robison at mrobison@nd.edu, Wonder” Garrity Conway overcame a size disad-Jeff “Devil Dog” Hsu def. Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
Punches flew in this aggres-vantage by simply overpower-Alexander “Zero Fun Sir” and Megan Finneran at sive fight but the junior Hasson ing the larger Ray. Ray main-Toombs mfnnera@nd.edu 


Think reading about Bengal Bouts was cool? Imagine writing about them. Write for Sports. E-mail Matt at mgamber@nd.edu 
page 20 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 15, 2010 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles fall to third in MIAA ranks 
Sophomore forward Kelley Murphy records double-double in loss 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
No. 4 Hope College van ­quished Saint Mary’s 94-75 Saturday in a victory that guaranteed that the Flying Dutch would have a share of the conference championship and dropped the Belles into a tie for third. 
Hope (22-10, 14-0 MIAA) jumped out to an early lead, but Saint Mary’s (12-11, 7-7 MIAA) kept it close in the early minutes. Up two, howev­er, the Flying Dutch reeled off a 9-1 run in three minutes to extend their lead to 22-12. Though the Belles stopped that run, Hope came right back with another to take its advantage to 37-19. 
As has been the Belles’ trademark, however, the Belles did not give up. Junior guard Liz Wade converted a steal into an assist of sopho­more guard Maggie Ronan on a 3-point play, cutting the Flying Dutch advantage to 42­34 with 2:46 left in the first half. The Flying Dutch never let Saint Mary’s gain momen­tum from the play, however, closing out the half with 11 straight points to take a 53-35 halftime lead. 
The second half was more of the same, with the Flying Dutch maintaining no less than a 19-point lead through­out the second period to close out their 63rd consecutive home win. 
The Belles were led by sophomore forward Kelley Murphy’s double-double of 13 points and 10 rebounds, soph­omore guard Patsy Mahoney’s 14 -point performance, 11 points from sophomore for­ward Jessica Centa and 10 from Wade. 
Wade added five steals, bringing her total to 91 on the season, surpassing the previ­ous school single -season record of 90, which has stood for over a decade. 
Hope was led by a 16-point, six-rebound effort from junior center Carrie Snikkers. Freshman guard Liz Ellis also added 16 to the Flying Dutch’s total, while senior swing play­er Philana Greene chipped in 14 points, six rebounds, five assists and six steals in a fan­tastic all-around perform ­ance. 
The Belles will have their home finale Wednesday at 
7:30 p.m. against Olivet as they try to hold on to third place in the conference. The game will also be Senior Recognition Night for the team’s lone senior, forward Anna Kammrath, as well as the team’s Pink Week in which they help raise money for breast cancer research. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
MEN’S DIVING 
Villaflor wins top honors at tourney 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
Irish head coach Tim Welsh and diving coach Caiming Xie issued a challenge to their divers to get Notre Dame off to a strong start in the Big East Championships this weekend. Junior diver Wes Villaflor answered the challenge, and then some. 
Villaflor swept the diving por­tion of the Championships, win­ning the 1-meter and 3-meter springboard events in dominat­ing fashion en route to winning Most Outstanding Diver at Trees Pool at the University of Pittsburgh. 
Villaflor’s victory in the 1­meter was in come-from­behind fashion. Villaflor was sixth at the end of the prelimi­nary round but posted a score of 347.00 in the finals to vault into the top spot, ahead of Irish diver Nathan Geary, who posted a 326.75 in the finals. Rounding out the Irish contingent was freshman Ryan Koter who fin­ished sixth in his debut with a 272.25. 
Villaflor led coming out of the preliminaries with a score of 
373.65 to hold on to the cham­pionship ahead of Geary, who posted a 333.15. 
The strong showing by the trio of Irish divers highlighted a great start to the Big East Championships, which saw Xie take home the award for Big East Diving Coach of the Year as well. 
The Irishs are now in good position as the teams transition to the swimming portion of the event, which begins Wednesday at Trees Pool at 7 p.m. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 

Monday, February 15, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
Injured 
continued from page 24 
was unable to play for the remainder of the tournament. 
Later on, the Irish geared up again to take on the Oregon Ducks, but fell 4-1 for their first loss of the season. 
Freshman pitchers Jackie Bowe and Brittany O’Donnell made their first collegiate appearances at the mound. Bowe started, giving up the four total runs, and Bowe took over to finish out the game. 
“It’s hard for freshmen to go against these past.” 
Saturday, the Irish fell 5-2 against Auburn and 7-3 against Oregon State. 
It took the Irish a few innings to get going offensive­ly against the Tigers, but hits from four Irish players, including a home run from senior Heather Johnson and an RBI from freshman Amy Buntin. Valdivia started the game and earned her first loss in 18 games dating back to 2009. 
The Irish suffered their third loss of the season against the Beavers, falling 7­
3. Oregon State took an early 4-0 
Division I hit-ters,” Ganeff said. “But they both got in  “[Oregon State] came out with a gotta-win­this-game mentality  lead that the Irish could not recover from.  
there, got their  and had their best  T h i n  g  s  
feet wet and did a really great job.”  game offensively and defensively.”  began to look up for the Irish offen- 
The  Ducks  sively  as  
were unable to shut the Irish out as junior  Kris Ganeff Irish assistant coach  Lux’s two RBIs in the sixth inning  
Erin  Marrone  with  a  
singled  and  ground-rule  
made her way  d  o u  b l  e  .  

around the bases for the only Sophomore Alexa Maldonado Irish run of the game. batted in one runner in the 
“[Oregon] had a brand new seventh, but the Irish were coaching staff and looked like unable to keep the rally going a completely different team long enough to defeat the than they have in the past few Beavers. years,” Ganeff said. “With the “[Oregon State] definitely new coaching staff, the team played their best game dynamic was a lot different against us the whole week-than what we’ve seen in the end,” Ganeff said. “They came out with a gotta-win-this­game mentality and had their best game offensively and defensively.” 
In their last game of the opening tournament, the Irish were tied 0-0 with the defend­ing national champion and current No. 1 Washington Huskies in search of an upset that could turn the team’s spirits drastically. 
“Like all our games this weekend, we just had one bad inning,” Ganeff said. 
In the fifth inning, Valdivia gave up a grand slam, giving the Huskies the momentum necessary to carry out a win. 
“We were playing just as competitively and [Valdivia] was pitching just as well,” Ganeff said. “We threw one pitch that was not where it was supposed to be and one pitch that changed the whole game.” 
Junior Katie Fleury got the only Irish hit against the Huskies. Washington pitcher Danielle Lawrie, who threw the Huskies’ national champi­onship win last season, put up a tough fight defensively. 
“If you go down three or four runs against this girl, it’s really hard to come back,” Ganeff said. 
The Irish will next travel to Southern Mississippi University for the Southern Miss Mizuno Classic on Feb. 20. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
Michigan 
continued from page 24 
Michigan, as they split the two times they played the Wolverines in 2009 and fell again this year. 
Michigan swept all three doubles positions from the Irish to start off the match. Jason Jung and Evan King defeated junior and Watt-Davis have shown some promise at No. 1.” 
Navas was able to defeat Fitzgerald easily at No. 4 singles by a score of 6-1, 6-0 to give the Wolverines a 2-0 advantage early. 
Anderson got the Irish on the board with a win at No. 6 singles by a score of 7-6 (7­5), 6-3. Anderson is 9-1 in 
his last 12 dual season match starts dating back to March 28. 
Tyler Davis and No. 73 King 
“Our matches with 
sophomore was able to Casey Watt at Michigan are always defeat No. 93 No. 1 doubles by emotional.” Havens by a a score of 8-3. score of 6-1, 
“They have 4-6, 6-2 at 
Bobby Bayliss 
two outstanding No. 2 singles. players at No. 1 Irish coach It was 
and No. 2 in Jason Jung and Evan King, ” Bayliss said. 
Junior Stephen Havens and sopho­more Niall Fitzgerald fell at the No. 2 doubles position to George Navas and Mike Sroczynski by a final score of 8-4. 
At No. 3 doubles juniors David Anderson and Daniel Stahl fell by the score of 8-3 for the Wolverine sweep. 
“Our matches with Michigan are always emo­tional,” Bayliss said. “David Anderson -Dan Stahl have become pretty competitive at No. 3, Havens -Fitzgerald have only one loss at No. 2, another tight 
battle at No. 
1 singles 
between No. 
18 Watt and No. 50 Jung as Watt pulled out the first set 6-3, and held 
off a comeback by the Wolverine to take the second set in a tiebreak. 
At No. 4, Stahl had a tough battle and won his match to knot the score at 3-3, before freshman Blas Moros fell at No. 5 singles to give the Wolverines the victory. 
The Irish will next travel to No. 24 Washington on Feb. 20. 
Contact Katelyn Grabarek at kgraba01@saintmarys.edu 

page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Monday, February 15, 2010 
Pink 
continued from page 24 
work the zone and find some great shots for her.” 
The contest’s scariest moment came in the first half when senior guard Lindsay Schrader stepped on senior guard Ashley Barlow’s foot while after a loose ball. Schrader fell to the floor, was helped off the court and did not return to play. It was later announced that she sprained her left ankle, and her status is currently day-to-day. 
“It was hard for us because down a fourth player with them playing a zone like that …we were forced to put a guard inside, and in the first half it really wasn’t working,” McGraw said. “Then in the sec­ond half Barlow was able to go inside, and coming up with eight assists, she was able to really work the high post and find Becca down low.” 
Picking up the slack left by Schrader’s absence, Bruszewski credited her career day to the team’s balance and ability to find the open shooter. 
“I think it’s just any given day anybody on this team can get double figures, get a double-double,” Bruszewski said. “Lately, Lindsay’s been our go­to, and she’s been doing a great job. Today, she went down, and I just stepped up, and my teammates did a great job of finding me, so I got the easy buckets.” 
Bruszewski’s 25-point per­formance was only eclipsed by the monster game of Blue Demons forward Keisha Hampton. Hampton finished with a game-high 28 points and eight rebounds, as the Irish had no answer for the lanky sophomore on either end of the court. 
Nevertheless, Blue Demons coach Doug Bruno said Notre Dame’s depth and pressure at the guard position were too much for Hampton and his squad, who coughed up 25 turnovers. 
Despite shooting over 50 per­cent from the floor, Notre Dame (23-1, 10-1 Big East) struggled to break away from the Blue Demons (16-10, 5-7) in the first half. The Irish need­ed a 12-2 run in the final min­utes to take a 42-32 lead into the break. Freshman guard Skylar Diggins hit a floater to beat the buzzer, energizing a sold-out Purcell Pavilion. 
“It was a huge shift,” McGraw said. “I thought that we were just a little out of sync, missing some shots. Skylar was able to get going, and with four seconds left was able to go the length of the floor and hit that shot. That just gave us great momentum heading into the locker room. She had a very good game.” 
Diggins finished the game with 18 points, four steals and three assists, solidifying her status as the conference’s lead­ing freshman scorer. 
Barlow’s eight assists were a new career-high for the senior. She also contributed nine points, six rebounds and five steals. 
Notre Dame will travel to Queens, N.Y., Tuesday to take on No. 25 St. Johns. Tip-off will be at 7 p.m. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
Abro 
continued from page 24 
Abromaitis led the Irish offensively with 24 points on 7-of-11 shooting. 
“Everyone had to step up and obviously we missed ‘Gody out there,” Abromaitis said. “At the same time we made some mistakes out there we shouldn’t have missed. We put ourselves in a position to win but couldn’t do it down the stretch.” 
After looking out of rhythm 
offensively 
in the game’s 

opening 
minutes, Hansbrough began attacking the Red Storm defense from the inside and outside. The junior hit his first five attempts from the field, scor­ing 12 of Notre Dame’s first 15 points. 


While St. John’s kept pace, 
trailing just 15-14 early, Abromaitis keyed a 7-0 run to give Notre Dame (17 -9, 6-7) an eight ­point lead with 10 min­utes remain-
i ng  i n  t h e  
half.  
J us t  a s  
q u i c k l y,  t h e  

Red Storm went on a 
Abromaitis, only to see St. John’s guard D.J. Kennedy answer right back. A late basket by Red Storm guard Malik Boothe gave the visi­tors a 37 -34 lead at the break. 
“They shot lights out, and 
they beat us to those spots, and fought us long enough,” Jackson said. “We’re a lot better than what we played today. We didn’t take care of the ball at all.” 
Notre Dame came out flat after the half, sputtering offen­sively and giving up three early 
“We put ourselves in a position to win but couldn’t do it down the stretch.” 
Tim Abromaitis Irish junior 
“We’re a lot better two. 
than what we played With less than a
today. We didn’t take 
minute to 
care of the ball at all.” go, Red 
Storm 
guard
Tory Jackson 
Dwight
Irish senior 
buckets, allowing St. John’s to expand its lead to 45-38. After slowly making up ground on the Red Storm, a 
Tyrone Nash layup put the Irish within a field goal at 49-47. 
Nash tallied 16 points working the post without Harangody underneath. 
A 3-pointer from Jackson, who missed his first seven shots from the floor, tied the Abromaitis converted a 3­point play off of a nice look from Nash to close within a point with a little over two minutes remaining. 
After forcing a St. John’s turnover, Abromaitis hit another 3-pointer, his third 
of the game, to put Notre Dame up 
Tardy hit a 
huge 3­
pointer to 
slow the Irish momentum and put St. John’s back up. Notre Dame responded by going back into the post to Nash, who drew a foul and converted two clutch free throws for a 68­67 lead. 
“My guys got me open down there to go to work, and I’m comfortable with that,” Nash said. “I just tried to take advantage, and I had to work harder without Luke in there.” 
The Red Storm went to their leading scorer Kennedy on their next possession, who drove the basket and was fouled. Jackson attempted two deep 3s in the closing seconds, but neither came close. 
The Irish will next face Louisville at the Purcell Pavilion Wednesday at 7 p.m. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
run of their own. Draining three straight shots from dis­tance led St. John’s on a 12-0 run, putting Notre Dame down four. 
The Irish briefly regained the lead on a 3 by game at 52 with less than eight minutes to go. 
The game remained close down the stretch with both teams fighting hard to drive the basket and drawing fouls. Down 64 -60, 

Monday, February 15, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 
Monday, February 8, 2010 page 24 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Playing for hope 
Bruszewski scores 25, Schrader hurt in win 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Following No. 3 Notre Dame’s 90-66 dismantling of DePaul University in the annu­al Pink Zone game, the Irish may consider wearing their pink and white jerseys on a regular basis. Led by the career-high 25 points of junior forward Becca Bruszewski, the Irish moved into sole posses­sion of second place in the Big East standings while raising over $70,000 towards cancer research and awareness. 
“I was really pleased with the offense,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “I thought we moved the ball well. We shared the ball well, we made some good passes. We were able to get it inside to Becca, and she had just a great day on the offensive end. Just really, we were able to SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 
Junior forward Becca Bruszewski, wearing a pink hair extension in honor of Notre Dame’s Pink see PINK/page 22 Zone fundraiser, faces off against a DePaul defender Sunday during Notre Dame’s 90-66 win. 

MEN’S TENNIS 
Irish fall by onepointto Wolverines 
By KATELYN GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish, coming off a tough loss to Duke last week, were not able to pull out a victory over Michigan Saturday, falling by a score of 4-3 in Ann Arbor, Mich. 
“Our match with Duke was a disappointment from a competitive point of view,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “We simply did not win enough big points. We held match points at No. 2 dou­bles to clinch the point, but didn’t reach out and take it. We had match points at No. 5, won the first set at No. 6, and served twice for the first set at No. 4, but came away with nothing to show for the effort.” 
The Irish always have tough matches against 
see MICHIGAN/page 21 

BENGAL BOUTS 
Nearly 200 boxers begin fighting in preliminary round 
raises tens of thousands of dol-two fighters sparred through Brian “Ghost Hands” Jonathan “Nightman” Lagoy 
By KEVIN BALDWIN, 
lars for the Holy Cross Brothers three intense rounds. Footwork Robillard def. Thomas def. Collin “A Reading from 
KAITLYN MURPHY, MOLLY 
Missions in Bangladesh. The was key in the first two rounds “Tucker” Corr the Book of the Prophet” 
SAMMON, MATT ROBISON, 
prelims consisted of 93 fights as the junior Warner parried Although the fight began Feduska 
CHRIS ALLEN and MEGAN 
split between two rings, and the punches of the senior. Perez evenly, sophomore Robillard Lagoy and Feduska traded 
FINNERAN 
began at 1 p.m. Nearly eight eventually connected on a dev-outlasted freshman Corr. blows back and forth through-
Sports Writers 
hours later, the field was set for astating cross to Warner’s face. Robillard’s experience was evi-out the first round of the match. Tuesday’s quarterfinals. At the start of the third round, dent, as he fought hard The sophomore Feduska, fight-
After months of training and a Warner came out swinging, try-throughout the entire match ing with his left arm in a sling, few weeks of dedicated 133-pound Weight Division ing to make up for lost ground and utilized his powerful com-landed a shot to Lagoy’s mouth fundraising, nearly 200 — 186 from the previous rounds, bos and quick footwork. just prior to the bell. The to be precise — Notre Dame Michael “Boricua” Perez def. though he was backed into a Although Corr made a strong senior’s attacks came up empty men fought in the preliminaries George Warner corner and had to remain on effort in the final round, the as the quick Feduska managed of the 2010 Bengal Bouts The 80th Bengal Bouts got off the defensive. Perez won by judges award Robillard the vic-Saturday. The annual event to an energetic start as these unanimous decision. tory by unanimous decision. see BENGAL/page 16 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Star’s absence felt in loss 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Sports Writer 
Desperately needing a win but with their best player on the sidelines in a suit, the struggling Irish came up just short, falling 69 -68 to St. John’s at home Sunday. 
Two free throws from Red Storm guard D.J. Kennedy with 12.5 seconds to go gave the Red Storm (14-10, 4-8 Big East) the late lead, and two attempts from senior guard Tory Jackson in the closing seconds came up short. 
With senior forward Luke Harangody out after suffering a knee injury in the second 
h a l f  o f  T h ur s d a y ’s  l o s s  t o  
S et o n  H a l l ,  j u n io r  Tim EILEEN VEIHMEYER/The Observer  
Junior forward Tim Abromaitis passes the ball Sunday during see ABRO/page 22 Notre Dame’s 69-68 loss to St. John’s.  


ND SOFTBALL 
Squad falls against top teams in opening play 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish saw some of the nation’s toughest competition at their first tournament of the season, the Kajikawa Classic at Arizona State. The Irish finished the weekend at 1-4. 
“It was our first weekend out, and we looked like it was our first time on dirt com­pared to the teams who had been playing already,” Irish assistant coach Kris Ganeff said. “ If we make some adjustments we’ll be on the right track for this coming weekend.” 
The Irish started off their season by slaughtering Creighton University 11-3 in six innings. Following that victory, the Irish were unable to pull out another win as they fell to Oregon, Auburn, Oregon State and No. 1 Washington. 
Against Creighton, junior pitcher Jody Valdivia led the Irish defensively with 10 strikeouts and held the Blue Jays to only three runs. Back-to-back home runs from sen­ior Christine Lux and sopho­more Dani Miller put the Irish in the lead, which they held for the rest of the game. 
Unfortunately Miller was injured during the game and 
see INJURED/page 21 





