the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Four Loko endangers students 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
Four Loko, the new popu­lar caffeinated malt bever­age with an alcohol content of 12 percent, has taken col­lege campuses around the country by storm, and Notre Dame is no exception. 
“We do know that students are using Four Loko and a lot of cases related to this drink have come up recent­ly,” Kelly Lawrence, assis­tant director of the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education, said. “I’ve heard it described as ‘cocaine in a can’ and I think that makes it more enticing to students.” 
Lawrence said the most dangerous thing about Four Loko is the added pressure it puts on the heart. 
“Students need to realize that Four Loko mixes a stim­ulant and a depressant, which are meant to have opposite effects,” he said. “The combination of the two things tends to mask how intoxicated you really are.” 
Lawrence said he thinks most students who drink Four Loko utilize the bever­age as “a part of their ‘pre­game’ ritual.” 
“Judging by my conversa­tions with students, Four Loko seems to be the first drink of the evening for most people,” he said. “Obviously the preference would be for students not to use it at all, but we do want to get involved in some type of dia­logue and talk about why they are [using it].” 

Drinking Four Loko facili­tates higher levels of intoxi­cation, which increases stu­dents’ risk of legal and disci­plinary problems, Lawrence said. 
“My sense is that students 
see LOKO/page 4 


ND prof. honored by society 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Professor Stephen Fallon said he has devoted 36 years to the study of the works of English poet John Milton. 
Fall on, who teach­es in the Program of Liberal Studies and English depart­ment, was recently awarded the Milton Society of America’s Honored Scholar Award for 2011. 
He said this lifetime achievement award for his work with Milton caught him off guard. 
“I was completely sur ­prised,” he said. Fallon said the Milton 

see MILTON/page 5 



ND grads rent houses to off-campus students 


Council members get zen 

By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
If off-campus houses were truly meant to be of students, by students and for students, then Rent Like a Champion cov­ered every base. 
Landlords Drew Mitchell, Jordan Curnes and Derrick Shenk, 2001 graduates of the University, developed their housing business Rent Like a Champion (RLAC) by offering students housing options. 
Rent Like a Champion cur­rently has ownership of over 40 housing properties, and they manage over 100 properties for 
see RENT/page 5 


By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 

On Wednesday, a group of yogis gathered to attempt the Lord of the Dance pose. Displaying varying levels of enthusiasm, commitment and balance, most channeled their chi masterfully. 
This is not RecSports Pilates class, this is not Badin Hall Flirty Girl Fitness: this is the Council of Representatives (COR). 
Student body president Catherine Soler introduced the Hindu/Buddhist practice to COR meetings upon com­ing into office. She said that it gives members an opportu­nity to unload stress and do something fun in an other­wise serious setting. 
“Everyone in COR is a leader and has a really busy schedule, so I thought it would be a nice way to include a relaxation tech­nique in a fun way to end the meetings,” she said. “As these meetings can be pretty mundane, sometimes it’s just nice to relax and do some­thing new.” 

Soler said she was a fan of yoga long before coming into office and taking the lead at COR. 
“I’ve taken yoga classes and I buy yoga magazines 
see YOGA/page 4 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Bengal Bouts alumnus fights in professional ring page 3  Food for Thought page 10  Hockey heads to Bowling Green page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Friday, November 5, 2010 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 

Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 

SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 

and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Molly Madden Chris Masoud Megan Doyle Matthew Robison Caitlin Housley Andrew Gastelum 
Graphics Scene 
Gaspar Garcia de Ankur Chawla Paredes Viewpoint Photo Madeline Roe Suzanna Pratt 
THE HOT SEAT: ONE PERSON, FIVE QUESTIONS, INFINITE POSSIBILITIES 
What has been your strangest experience as Leprechaun? George: I’ve had a couple. At the Notre Dame-Connecticut Women’s Soccer game last week, a UConn fan ripped off my hat as I was talking to some spectators, and said “I hear if you rub a leprechaun’s head, you get good luck,” and proceeded to rub my head. 


What has been the most rewarding part of this job? 
George: Putting on the green suit, and knowing that I represent the greatest 
Mike George 
junior 

University in the world, and seeing just 
Leprechaun 
how many people get excited to cheer for Notre Dame sports, and sharing in 



Know someone who should be in the hot seat? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
their joy of victory, while making every­one’s day hopefully a little better. 
What is your favorite sport to cheer for, and why? George: Each sport is different — each one has its own advantages. For example, volleyball is great because it’s so fast-paced and filled with non­stop action. Soccer is also fun because there is a huge buildup, and when we score a goal, it’s ginormously exciting 
What’s really at the end of the rainbow? George: [Laughs] Is it a double rain­bow? Well, I’m sorry, that’s on a lep­rechaun-need-to-know basis only. 

COURTNEY ECKERLE/The Observer Sophomore Amy Tiberi looks at sweatshirts in the new discounted merchandise section in Saint Mary’s Shaheen bookstore. The section opened a week ago, and was previously the location of the C-store, which moved into the Cyber Café. 
OFFBEAT 

Canine unit training drugs misplaced after session 
JACKSON, Wyo. — Officials in Wyoming want people to be on the lookout for a black box with white lettering that says “METH,” after a deputy lost a stash used to train police dogs. Teton County sheriff’s Sgt. Lloyd Funk said the deputy accidentally left the box on a bumper after a canine training exercise Oct. 27. It contained nearly an ounce of methamphetamine. 
The deputy drove off with the drugs perched on the vehicle. 
The Jackson Hole News & Guide reported that offi­cers literally trying to get drugs off the street haven’t been able to find the box. 
Anyone with information is being asked to call the sheriff’s office. Sheriff Jim Whalen says someone pos­sessing the amount of meth that was lost would face a felony charge. 
Whalen says his office is taking action to make sure the mistake isn’t repeated. 
Bridal hallucinations lead to woman’s conviction 
HAGERSTOWN, Md. — A Maryland jury has convict­ed a woman of burglary, assault and reckless endangerment for breaking into her neighbor’s house wearing nothing but a bridal skirt and veil on a snowy night in February. Thirty-three-year old Melissa Wagaman testified Thursday that a combina­tion of cold medicine and marijuana apparently made her hallucinate that she was getting married and her mother was locked in her neighbor’s base­ment. 
Wagaman broke a dining room window with her head, causing shattered glass to cut an artery in her neighbor’s arm. 
The jury rejected defense arguments that Wagaman truly believed she needed to enter the house and did-n’t know she was endan­gering her neighbor. 
She faces up to 23 years in prison. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Saturday sunday 
IN BRIEF 
The film “Soul Kitchen” will be shown in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center tonight at 6:30 p.m. Cost is $3 for students and $6 regular. 
The Pasquerilla East Musical Company will present The Drowsy Chaperone in the Mainstage Auditorium of Washington Hall tonight at 8 
p.m. Tickets are $6 for stu­dents and $8 for non -stu­dents. 
ND Bands will sponsor the Band Blitz Saturday begin­ning at 10 a.m. The Blitz will consist of a 5K run and 1K walk. Cost is $15, and all pro­ceeds go to the Salvation Army music programs. 
The Special Friends social service organization will host a puzzle competition Saturday at 1 p.m. The event will take place in the Oak Room of the South Dining Hall. Cost is $15 per teams of four or free for individuals. 
The film “Rashomon” will be shown Saturday at 3 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Cost is $3 for stu­dents and $6 regular. 
Author Steve Tomasula will read from his novel “TOC” Saturday at 7:30 p.m. in the Jordan Hall of Science . Admission is free. 
The Moscow State Symphony with Jeremy Denk, piano soloist will perform at 2 
p.m. Sunday. The perform­ance will take place in the 
DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Cost is $15 for stu­dents and $40 regular. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 


monday tuesday 

LOCAL WEATHER 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
LOW 38 LOW 28 LOW 31 LOW 34 LOW 36 LOW 42 
Friday, November 5, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Bengal Bouts alumnus fights in professional ring 

2009 graduate Mike Lee discovered boxing, service during time at Notre Dame; kept lessons from amateur roots 
January and signed with Bob ed a travel package for the 
By LAURA MYERS 

Arum’s Top Rank Boxing, the event to Champions for 
News Writer 

promotional company that Children’s, a charity auction represents Pacquiao as well that benefits Chicago’s Mike Lee wears blue and as many other top boxers. He Children’s Memorial Hospital. gold gear when he fights. As trains in Houston and won “The auction is an annual he steps into the boxing ring both of his first two matches, auction that they hold, they for a match, a which took place have a lot of Chicagoland ath-Notre Dame in Chicago and at letes,” Lee said. “They banner hangs the Palms in Las approached me and we want-
behind him. Vegas. ed to do something.” 
“Notre Dame was
In his last “Things are The travel package includes year of col -such a huge part of going well,” he air travel, hotel and ringside lege, Lee, a my life. I’ll always be said. “I’ve been tickets for the event. The auc­2009 Notre training in tion will be on Nov. 12. 
a huge fan of Notre
Dame alum -Houston, just get-“I wish I could be there,” nus, was Dame, and always be ting better and Lee said. “But they told me it interviewing involved. .. We get a better. I’ve gotten should auction for a lot of for jobs in the a lot of good com-money, and it will go towards 
ton of support from
b u s i n e s s ments from the the hospital. And then I’ll be world and the Notre Dame boxing world, able to meet the people who training for community, which is from fighters, came after my fight. I’m glad his final from writers.” the hospital wanted me to be 
why we wanted to
Bengal Bouts Top Rank decid-a part of it.” 
tournament. wear blue and gold.” ed to place Lee Boxing and charity have Now, he is on the Nov. 13 always gone together for Lee. two weeks fight card, albeit A three-time Bengal Bouts 
Mike Lee 
away from with a little help. champion, Lee was a captain 
professional boxer
his third pro-“I met Jerry of the club in his senior year, fessional box-Jones, the owner and was one a part of one of ing match, of the Cowboys,” the first group of boxers who which will Lee said. “When traveled to Bangladesh in the take place on Nov. 13 at this fight came around, he summer of 2008. Cowboys Stadium in Dallas. apparently told Bob, ‘I want “Staying involved in charity But he keeps his amateur that kid, Mike as well as doing roots at the forefront. Lee from Notre what I love is 
“Notre Dame was such a Dame, on the “I think Bengal Bouts important to huge part of my life,” Lee card.’ me,” Lee said. 
was the platform that
said. “I’ll always be a huge “It’s a big “I think Bengal fan of Notre Dame, and deal to be on started everything for Bouts was the always be involved. … We get this card, so me in terms of being platform that a ton of support from the I’m excited. started every-
involved in charity
Notre Dame community, They only have thing for me in 
which is why we wanted to their top and really getting terms of being 
wear blue and gold.” prospects.” involved in many involved in Lee’s fight, a four-round He said many charity and 
different levels.” 
light heavyweight bout Notre Dame really getting against Keith Debow of St. alumni who live involved in Louis, will be part of a head-in the area will Mike Lee many different lining event that will feature be coming to professional boxer levels. I just boxing star Manny Pacquiao show their sup-want to use my fighting Antonio Margarito port. success and the for a world championship. “We have a lot of alumni publicity I’ve been getting to “This next fight is by far the clubs coming to this fight,” he help out some people along 
biggest fight of my career,” said. “The fan base is espe-the way.” 
Lee said. “… There should be cially great from Notre 
75-80,000 people there.” Dame.” Contact Laura Myers at Lee turned professional in Lee, of Wheaton, Ill., donat-lmyers2@nd.edu 



Asian studies institute founded 

By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 

The gift for the recently established Institute for Asia and Asian studies will offer a new program to students at the University, J. Nicholas Entrikin, vice president and associate provost for Internationalization, said. 
The Institute for Asia and Asian Studies was created with an endowment from the RM Liu Foundation, a philanthrop­ic group that supports the activities of the Liu family, whose children graduated from Notre Dame. 
Emily Liu graduated in 1994 with a degree in psychology and her brother Justin gradu­ated in 2000 with a degree in finance. Justin Lui is a member of the College of Arts and Letters Advisory Council and also serves on the Asian Studies Advisory Board, according a University press release. 
Emily and Justin Liu left their gift to Notre Dame in honor of their grandfather, a World War II general in the Chinese army who rescued 7,000 British and 500 Asia,” Entrikin said. American soldiers from the This endowment from the Liu Japanese. family created the Institute for 
“This gift from the RM Liu Asian Studies, as well as an 
Foundation was start the Instit ute,” Entrikin said. 
The Institute is an extension of the Center for Asian Studies, which the University established in 
1997.  The  
Center  was  
created  in  
attempt  to  

increase emphasis on Asia. 
In 2005, the provost appointed a task force on Asian Studies to help deter-

necessary to intensive summer Chinese pro­
“This [institute] allows for an interdisciplinary institute that will make more visible the opportunity to study about Asia.” 
J. Nicholas Entrikin vice president and associate provost Internationalization 
gram in Taiwan, and such cultural 
events  as  the  
Asian  Film  
Festival  and  
Conference.  

The Institute’s goals will include multidisciplinary and collaborative research that will develop Asian-based initiatives to help solidify Notre Dame’s presence in Asia as the world’s foremost Catholic research universi­ty, the release said. 
“Any exchange program wants 

mine the “rewards” of creating students and information to go a University program centered in both directions and this will entirely on Asia, according to help us understand Asia and the release. its economy more,” Entrikin 
“This [institute] allows for an said. interdisciplinary institute that will make more visible the Contact Anna Boarini at opportunity to study about aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Friday, November 5, 2010 

TOM LA/Observer Photo Members of the Council of Representatives embrace their inner yogi during Tuesday’s meeting to lighten the mood during more serious student government discussions. 
unconventional,” she said. “I try to choose poses that are 


Yoga 

simple enough for people to continued from page 1 follow along with, but that 
are also gender-neutral.” and stuff like that, but I’m Soler said she was not the nowhere near a certified yoga only Council member 
master, ” she said. “I like to think I’m more of a yogi than I probably am.” 
Soler said that as far as she knows, no past student body president brought any similar prac­tice into stu ­dent govern ­ment meet ­ings. Since the practice is untraditional for student government and many Coucncil mem­

“I try to choose poses that are simple enough for people to follow along with, but that are also gender-neutral.” 
Catherine Soler student body president 
enthused about the end-of-meet­ing yoga exercis­es, whether it is apparent at the meetings or not. 
“Sometimes there is some eye-rolling, I’ll admit, from cer­tain members. On the whole I think people think it’s fun,” Soler said. “Andrew [Bell, student body vice president] and Nick [Ruof, chief of staff], who don’t like to admit it, really enjoy the yoga 


bers are unfamiliar with yoga, Soler made an effort to ensure that the poses she chooses are beginner-friend­ly. 
“I’ve never heard of this before. Apparently it’s very 


Loko 
continued from page 1 
do know it’s dangerous,” he said. “But there’s this invul­nerability where they think ‘nothing is going to happen to me.’” 
Junior Meghan Donoghue, 
21, said Four Loko is popular among many of her friends. 
“I think peo­ple initially thought it was something that would get them drunk really fast and that’s where all the hype came from,” she said. Donoghue said she thinks drinking Four Lokos has become about 
portions of the meetings,” she 
said. 
“No comment,” Bell said. 
While COR tried out a vari­ety of different poses, Soler has a few favorites. 
“My favorite pose we’ ve 
Donoghue said none of her friends have discontinued their consumption of the drink. 
Lawrence said the Office of Alcohol and Drug Education is not currently advocating any policy change or du Lac amendment related to stu­dent consumption of Four 
L o k o s ,  b u t  t h e  O f f i c e  w i l l  
c o n t i n u e  t o  
e d u c a t e  s t u - 


“I’ve heard [Four dents on the dangers of 
Loko] described as 
mixing alcohol ‘cocaine in a can,’ and energy 
and I think that drinks. 
“We are all 

makes it more 
involved in 

enticing to students.” educating stu­dents about the effects of the 
Kelly Lawrence 
beverage and 

assistant director 
the risk fac ­

Offce of Alcohol and 
tors,” he said. 

Drug Education “And because it is a general concern as 
b r a g g i n g well, we have been generat­done so far, well, warrior one was a hit right away. I also like the one we just did which was the Lord of the Dance pose.” 
To keep things interesting, Soler led Council members in 
other unusual relaxation practices. 
“We were trying to think of different mind-body exercises so we’ve done some pilates, we’ve done a little medita­tion, and some yoga,” she said. 
As far as for the future, Soler has high expectations for COR members’ develop­ment as yogis. 
“I’m hoping by the end of the year we’ll be able to do a whole sun salutation together as COR.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 




SMCsophomoredance themed masquerade 
By KELLY MURPHY 
News Writer 

The Saint Mary’s Class of 2013 will host a black-and-white themed, formal dance to be held tonight in downtown South Bend. 
Attendees are encouraged to wear black and white to the dance, “Black Time Masquerade.” Masks, which are provided with the tickets, and decorations will add a splash of color to the black and white theme, Katie Gutrich, Class of 2013 president, said. 
She said the dance will be held at Century Center in down­
“This is the frst 
town South “We’ve Bend from 10 formal dance for the worked really 
p.m. to 1 a.m. Class of 2013.” hard on it with 
Ticket sales the Class of have been 2013 in mind,” 
Katie Gutrich
extended due to Thompson said. their high Class of 2013 president “My hope is 
“This is the first formal dance for the Class of 2013,” Gutrich said. “Hopefully this big turnout will help keep the class of 2013’s enthusiasm up.” 
Saint Mary’s will provide transportation to and from the dance. A trolley system will be available throughout the evening and will pick students up at Le Mans circle. 
Class of 2013 vice president Torrie Thompson said food will be provided at the dance and the theme will be “death by choco­late.” Some of the desserts include: cream puffs, rice krispies, éclairs, chocolate cov­ered strawberries and pretzels, 
moose shooters 
and brownies. 

demand, Gutrich said. Tickets will be available for purchase in the Student Center Atrium through today from 12 p.m. to 2 p.m. and 4 p.m. to 7 p.m. The cost is $15 per person. 
that everyone 
enjoys it and has a good time with all their friends.” 
Contact Kelly Murphy at kmurph04@saintmarys.edu 


rights for many students. 
“People want to say ‘oh, I shotgunned a Four Loko’ or ‘I drank three in an hour,’” she said. 
Despite the health risks associated with Four Loko, 
ing discussion on Four Loko 
i n  o u r  v a r i o u s  e d u c a t i o n  
g r o u p s  o v e r  t h e  l a s t  f e w  
weeks.”  


Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 
5 

page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Friday, November 5, 2010 



Rutgers suicide case tests New Jersey privacy law 
their involvement. On Sept. 19, Ravi tweeted: for first-time offenders. the video. Associated Press “When the forensic evidence “Roommate asked for room Prosecutors have not specified Sean Morrissey, managing from all the seized computers is until midnight. I went into which degree Ravi and Wei are director of Katana Forensics, a 
HADDONFIELD, N.J. — The revealed, the truth will come molly’s room and turned on my charged with. computer forensics software case of a Rutgers University out,” Steve Altman, Ravi’s webcam. I saw him making out The less serious fourth-firm based in Easton, Md., said student who committed suicide attorney, told the Newark Star-with a dude. Yay.” Two days degree crime could be commit-that a video session on Apple’s after a roommate allegedly Ledger for Sunday’s editions. later, he said this: “Anyone with ted if someone who is unautho-iChat can be between only two used a webcam to spy on his “Nothing was transmitted iChat, I dare you to video chat rized to do so merely observes parties, and that the video tryst with another man could beyond one computer, and me between the hours of 9:30 a sexual act — or in a situation would not be saved. pose the first legal test of a what was seen was only viewed and 12. Yes, it’s happening where “reasonable person And while prosecutors have state privacy law passed in for a matter of seconds.” again.” would know that another may not said how far the video 2003. Rubin Sinins, a lawyer for Authorities say Ravi failed in expose intimate parts or may went, it’s possible — but very 
Lawyers for the roommate Wei, said he was “unaware of an attempt that time to spy on engage in sexual penetration or uncommon — to use “third­and another student, accused sexual contact” in the webcam his roommate. sexual contact,” Loughry said. party software” from another of watching 18-year-old Tyler video his client saw. In a gay-themed chatroom, a To prove the third-degree company to disseminate a live Clementi “making out with a “The statute defining sexual poster who appears to have crime, though, would be hard-video more widely, Morrissey dude” in his dorm room on the contact refers to nudity and been Clementi said he er. To be convicted someone said. Piscataway campus, insist their private parts, and, to my unplugged Ravi’s computer and would have to see nudity or Bill Dobbs, a longtime New clients were the only two peo-knowledge, nothing like that searched for hidden cameras sexual contact — and would York City gay rights activist, ple who saw a tame encounter was seen,” he said. “I’m also before a liaison that night. have to record it. If the defense said he worries about “arm­and did not record it. unaware of any evidence that The applicable state invasion-lawyers are correct, Loughry chair prosecution” as people 
Prosecutors said, though, that any video was recorded, repro-of-privacy law, adopted in 2003 said, that could be hard for call for more serious charges they tried to transmit a “sexual duced or disseminated in any as a sex offense, appears to be prosecutors to prove. against Ravi and Wei without encounter” on the Internet but way.” seldom used. There have been No lawsuits have been filed, knowing all the facts. But haven’t said how widely avail-Altman has not agreed to an no legal cases in which judges though Clementi’s parents do there’s value in the social dis­able they believe the video was. interview with The Associated have further interpreted it. have a lawyer. John Bazzurro, cussion that has come out of 
Therein lie the questions: Press, and Sinins would say The law differentiates a lawyer in West Long Branch, the case, he said. What was the potential audi-only that his client is innocent between a third-degree crime, said he believes that Clementi’s “The bigger conversation’s ence? What constitutes priva-of any charges. But experts which could carry a five-year family could file a claim for pri-very important because that’s cy? What did Clementi know, said the defense they have out-prison term, and a fourth-vacy invasion whether or not part of efforts to get at the and why did he believe death lined might not be enough to degree crime, punishable by no Wei and Ravi witnessed any truth,” he said. “What actually was the best option? For the clear the 18-year-olds. more than 18 months in prison sexual contact or disseminated led to him committing suicide?” young suspects, the answers could mean the difference between years in prison, 18 months or no time at all. 
“To prove this case, you’d probably have to have the recording; you’d have to see what’s on it,” Justin Loughry, a Camden lawyer familiar with the privacy law and unconnect­ed to the Rutgers case, said about the difficulty prosecutors could face in arguing for the harshest penalties. “Would it be enough to peek in on someone French kissing? Probably not.” 
The case became a national symbol soon after the news broke that Clementi, a fresh­man just a few weeks into classes at Rutgers, committed suicide by jumping into the Hudson River from the George Washington Bridge. 
In the days before his death, authorities said, Dharun Ravi and another student, Molly Wei, watched his encounter with an unidentified man in the room Clementi shared with Ravi. 
The story came on the heels of a spate of gay teenagers nationwide killing themselves after being bullied — and it quickly took on that mantle. 
Clementi’s death galvanized efforts to fight suicide and bul­lying of gay teens. It helped inspire “Wear Purple Day” last month, in which advocates encouraged people to wear the color to protest bullying. Talk-show host Ellen DeGeneres, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and President Barack Obama joined luminar­ies in recording videos decrying bullying and suicide. 
Facebook groups popped up calling for expulsion or long prison sentences for Ravi and Wei. Some groups have sug­gested hate-crime charges, and Middlesex County prosecutors say they’re evaluating whether the state’s hate-crime law might apply. 
To convict someone of a hate crime, a jury must find that someone committed a crime out of a belief that the victim was a member of a protected group, such as a racial or sexu­al minority. Friends of the sus­pects have said they held no animosity toward gays. 
Their lawyers announced last week that they were withdraw­ing from Rutgers out of fear for their safety, and followed a few days later with comments that appear to be aimed at getting their clients the lightest penalty possible — but not denying 


Friday, November 5, 2010 The Observer . INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
SINGAPORE 




Engine fails mid-flight 
Associated Press 
SINGAPORE — First came two quick bangs. Then, on the left side of the Qantas super-jumbo jet, passengers saw flames, a stream of smoke and debris from a stricken engine. A gouge scarred the top of the Airbus 380’s left wing, scorch marks were on the outside of the blown-out engine and part of its cover depicting the air­line’s familiar red kangaroo logo had fallen off during the flight over Indonesia. 
After a tense 95 minutes while the pilots dumped fuel, the massive, double-decker plane — the world’s largest — returned safely Thursday to Singapore, where it made an emergency landing with 459 people aboard. 
Qantas and Singapore Airlines grounded their Airbus A380 jetliners after Rolls-Royce, which manufactured the engines, recommended a series of checks. 
Lufthansa grounded its A380 scheduled to depart Frankfurt for Johannesburg while it checked the engines, and instead used an A340-600 on the route, spokesman Boris Ogursky said. Lufthansa plans to fly the A380 from Frankfurt to Tokyo as scheduled on Friday, he added. 
The failure of the No. 2 engine — one of four on the jet — was the most serious in-flight incident involving the A380 since it debuted in 2007 with Singapore Airlines flying it to Sydney. That’s the same route that Thursday’s Qantas Flight QF34 was making. 
Passengers praised the Qantas crew for their reassur­ing announcements. 
“Panic would have broken out, but the crew kept people updated and were behaving as if it (the situation) was so triv­ial,” said Matthew Hewitt, a 25-year-old engineer from Manchester in Britain. “The crew was so calm.” 
Experts said the problem appeared to be an “uncon­tained engine failure,” which occurs when turbine debris punctures the engine casing and the light cowling that cov­ers the unit. 
Qantas CEO Alan Joyce appeared to blame the engines, made by Rolls-Royce. 
“This issue, an engine fail­ure, has been one that we haven’t seen before. So we are obviously taking it very seri­ously because it is a signifi­cant engine failure,” he told a Sydney news conference where he announced Qantas was grounding its six A380s. 
The risk isn’t so much from the loss of engine power because the A380 had three other engines to rely on, said former National Transportation Safety Board member John Goglia. Rather, the concern is that hot metal parts could shoot out from the engine much like shrapnel and pierce the fuselage, per­haps leading to rapid depres­surization, or puncture fuel lines in the wings, possibly starting a fire, he said. 
The damage on the upper side of the left wing appeared to be just behind its leading edge, an area that is actually hollow and abuts the landing-gear bay. 
“The tanks are located and designed to be protected in case of such problems. The wing was affected, but absolutely not the fuel tank,” said Airbus spokeswoman Aude Lebas. 
Such engine failures, which have become very rare in both civil and military aviation, are not considered particularly worrying. Statistics show these occur about once in a million flights, although this was the first major safety inci­dent involving the A380. 
“All engine failures are real­ly becoming increasingly rare because reliability has increased dramatically in last 20 years,” said William Voss, president of the Flight Safety Foundation in Alexandria, Va. 
“It’s particularly rare to have an uncontained engine failure,” he said. 
The Australian Transport Safety Bureau sent four inves­tigators to Singapore. Airbus said it was providing all nec­essary technical assistance to the probe and a team of spe­cialists was being dispatched to Singapore. 
The most frequent causes of engines failures are the inges­tion of loose objects on the runway or bird strikes. Also, mechanical problems such as rotor imbalances can cause microscopic cracks to form on the turbine blades, leading to their failure. 

Most flocks of migrating birds fly at very low altitudes. 
Indonesian officials said the engine trouble could not have been related to recent vol­canic eruptions of Mount Merapi, some 800 miles (1,300 kilometers) to the east 
— a view corroborated by Voss. 
“It’s extremely unlikely this could have had anything to do with the volcanic eruption, but everything ... will be looked at very closely during the investigation,” Voss said. 
Parts of the engine and its cover fell on the thickly popu­lated western Indonesian island of Batam, near Singapore, but no injuries were reported. Residents there helped authorities pick up more than 100 pieces of debris — mostly small, torn metal but some the size of doors — that were brought to police headquarters. 
Airbus has delivered a total of 37 A380s so far. Thirteen are in service with Emirates, 11 with Singapore Airlines, six with Qantas, four with Air France and three with Lufthansa. 
Emirates airlines said all of its A380s are flying as sched­uled, noting its planes aren’t powered by Rolls-Royce engines. 
In September 2009, a Singapore Airlines A380 was forced to turn around and head back to Paris after an engine malfunction. On March 31, a Qantas A380 with 244 people on board burst two tires on landing in Sydney after a flight from Singapore. 
Last August, a Lufthansa crew shut down one of the engines as a precaution before landing at Frankfurt on a flight from Japan, after receiving confusing informa­tion on a cockpit indicator. 
Qantas’ safety record is enviable among major air­lines, with no fatal crashes since it introduced jet-pow­ered planes in the late 1950s. 
HAITI 


Obstacle stalls U.S. financial aid for Haiti 
killed more than 440 people 
Associated Press 
and sickened thousands, 

PORT-AU-PRINCE — As if spreading too quickly to be Haitians living in tents and contained. under scraps of plastic don’t Now aid groups are rushing have enough to grapple with to protect the fragile tent as a tropical storm bears camps where an estimated 1.3 down and cholera spreads, the million people live ahead of 
U.S. Congress has put up Tropical Storm Tomas, which another obstacle to delivering forecasters said could regain the $1.15 billion in recon-hurricane strength by Friday struction money it promised and dump up to 10 inches (25 back in March. centimeters) of rain. Haitian 
The State Department still civil protection officials has to prove the money won’t advised all camp residents to be stolen or misused — not an find other shelter, but most easy task in a country notori-have nowhere to go. ous for cor-Any signifi­ruption. cant rainfall 
“Given the weak
“Given the could cause weak govern-governmental widespread mental insti-institutions that existed flooding in 
tutions that the severely 
in Haiti even before the
existed in deforested Haiti even earthquake, Congress country, with before the the storm 
wants to be sure we have 
earthquake, expected to 
that accountability in
Congress strike nearly wants to be place before these funds every part of 
sure we have are obligated.” the nation of 
that account-10 million. ability in “As Haiti place before P.J. Crowley faces another these funds spokesman natural disas­are obligat-State Department ter and is still 
ed,” State Department spokesman P.J. Crowley told The Associated Press. 
Crowley had no immediate estimate Wednesday for how long this bureaucratic step — known as a Section 1007 pro­ceeding — will take to com­plete, but said it would be “very soon.” 
Haiti aid organizers had hoped to avoid this. While the country has a reputation for corruption, measures were put in place — including a reconstruction oversight com­mission co-chaired by former President Bill Clinton — to ensure such concerns would not hold up the money. 
It has been nearly 10 months since Haiti’s capital was leveled by an earthquake that killed at least 230,000 and left millions homeless. Seven months have also gone by since Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton prom­ised $1.15 billion in recon­struction money for Haiti meant 
to build “There is no question we of a process homes, create that has kept 
should do everything we
jobs and to a schedule 
can to assist our
improve lives. laid out in the 
Separately, neighbors in Haiti.” aid bill. an immediate S t i l l , $1.1 billion in requirements 
Tom Coburn 
U.S. humani-like these can 
senator
tarian assis-hold up aid tance was Oklahoma for 
spent in Haiti without hav­ing to go through this proceeding. Some of it went to emergency rescue and medical care, and some to expenses like travel and sup­port for aid workers immedi­ately after the quake. That kind of aid continues — the USS Iwo Jima was steaming toward Haiti Thursday to pro­vide more relief after the storm. 
But without the reconstruc­tion money, Haiti’s long-term needs remain unaddressed: Temporary shelters have gone unbuilt, rubble has not been removed and some 1.3 million people remain homeless in and around the capital, unable to find or afford safe places to live. The cholera outbreak has reeling from 
the recent cholera outbreak, this is not the time to delay assistance,” Sen. John Kerry, the Massachusetts Democrat and Senate Foreign Relations Committee chairman who sponsored the aid bill, told the AP on Thursday. 
In September, an AP investi­gation revealed that not one penny of the promised U.S. reconstruction money had arrived, due to a combination of bureaucracy, disorganiza­tion and a lack of urgency in Washington. 
President Barack Obama wasn’t able to sign the appro­priations bill containing the money until July 29. A subse­quent bill to authorize release of the funds stalled, and it took until Sept. 20 for the Obama administration to sub­mit a spending plan in an attempt to free up the money. 
Crowley told the AP “there has not been a delay,” describ­
ing the 1007 
notification as 
the final piece 
money 
years. Some 
of the millions 
promised by President George W. Bush to help Mexico fight drug cartels still hasn’t been released because of conditions that U.S. lawmakers put on that aid. 
“There is no question we should do everything we can to assist our neighbors in Haiti,” Republican Sen. Tom Coburn of Oklahoma wrote in an Oct. 8 letter explaining why he objects to quick approval of the bill Kerry and Tennessee Republican Sen. Bob Corker wrote to authorize the spend­ing. Haiti must first commit to fighting corruption, and any additional Haiti spending must come only at the expense of other State Department pro­grams, Coburn said. 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 8 Friday, November 5, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

No regrets about living on my own off campus 
It wasn’t an easy decision when I had to weigh between off-campus or on-campus housing. I couldn’t help but lean toward the idea of being free from cramped quarters, pari­etals and limited 
Ashley Charnley 
amounts of liquor even though I’m beyond the age of SaintM ary’s 
21. Editor 
However, there was also the idea of never having to cook, having to swipe into the room and not having to drive to class every day. 
In the end though, I chose off cam­pus. Honestly, I’m incredibly grateful for my choice. That isn’t to say, though, that I wish I had moved off sooner. Now a senior, I spent the first three years of school on campus. I didn’t have a choice, but then again even if I had, I would have stayed on. 
I actually recommend all college students remain close to campus those first few years. I made friends in the classroom, but sisters in the dorms. I love all the girls I spent movie/study nights with in my paja­mas and rushed to their dorms for late night drama with pints of ice cream from the C-Store. 
Living on campus has its downfalls, but the relationships make it worth it. There is no way to get to know someone better than to live with them. Even the ones who are harder to live with, who force you to go out­side yourself, to be patient and to learn how to talk through issues or else crash on someone else’s futon for a couple of days. 
All that being said though, I think it was time to move off. I thought long and hard about what I would be missing if I decided to leave the over 100-year-old walls and halls of those buildings. 
Then it dawned on me: there are new memories to have. The point of college is not to dwell on the times we had, but to make as new ones as possible. Moving off campus, paying rent, making ends meet and then having house parties (tame, I swear) and hanging out with friends in a place that has multiple rooms and a bathroom that is only shared by two people. 
Since I’ve moved in here, we have been woken up by middle of the night smoke detector malfunctions, watched our window crash to floor and sat in the middle of the living room (as far from a window as you can in a townhouse) to avoid being injured by hurricane force winds and tornadoes. 
Having my own place has been an adventure and has taught me so much about what the next step is going to be. I know what it is like to live on my own without a dining hall and someone else taking care of cleaning the bathroom. 
So, to any of you wondering if going off campus is a good idea; I say yes. It’s college. Live a little. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily tho se of The Observer. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 


Reformatting the Forum 

The Notre Dame Forum began in 2005 as a way for the University to engage students and faculty about one topic dur­ing a one-time panel discussion. 
This year’s Forum, “The Global Marketplace and the Common Good,” took on a new format as the discussion is to last the entire academic year rather than during one afternoon. 
At first glance, this change appears positive. In place of one panel or lecture, the University planned panel discussions, stu­dent discussions and events specific to certain areas of study to engage students throughout the 2010-2011 academic year. 
In September, Ed Conlon, Mendoza College of Business asso­ciate dean and chairman of the Forum’s working 
committee, told The Observer that the University decided the Forum could not fully discuss an important issue in just one event. 
“The idea was to enlarge the scope of the Forum to encompass a lot of different things in relation to one topic over the course of the aca­demic year,” Conlon said. 
Given that the goal is to engage students for an entire aca­demic year, has the Forum’s new style succeeded? We’re not convinced it has. 
The Forum’s signature event Wednesday night featured Thomas Friedman, a Pulitzer Prize winner and New York Times columnist. Bringing a well-known speaker to address this subject area is commendable and generated a lot of enthu­siasm. 
However, the event was held in the Leighton Concert Hall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, which only seats 900­950 people. In the past, it was held in the Joyce Center, which could hold a significantly larger amount of people. 
The event was free, but required tickets. The tickets were gone in a little over an hour, and many students who desired a ticket were unable to get one. Requiring people to obtain tickets ahead of time also eliminates dorm walkovers, classes sitting together or students deciding spur of the moment to attend. 
Friedman’s lecture was engaging and pertinent to the under­graduate student body. Yet, it did not seem to be undergradu­ates who were attending. Graduate students, professors and adults comprised most of the auditorium, which, despite the 
Global warming and morality 
In his Viewpoint yesterday on “Science, Politics, and Global Warming,” Ed Larkin argued that while the theory of evolution is obviously true to a casual observer at the zoo, global warming is not evident to non-scientists. Therefore, those who call on society to make dramatic changes to avert its impacts are unreasonable. 
I disagree that global warming is less 
Rachel Novick 
evident than evolution. Global warming is actually more evident because it is 
G uest 
happening on a much shorter time scale 
Colum nist 
than evolution, and the process can therefore be observed. 
While the basic tenets of natural selec­tion make sense logically, a non-scientist cannot, in fact, adequately assess their validity. We rely on evolutionary biologists who utilize extensive fossil and molecular data as well as complex statistical models. 
The basics of global warming also make sense logically. People have known that carbon dioxide is a greenhouse gas since the mid-nineteenth century (Tyndall 1861). High school chemistry tells us that when we add carbon dioxide to the atmosphere, a big chunk of it is absorbed by the oceans, making them more acidic. The oceans are currently 30 per­cent more acidic than in pre-industrial times, and by mid-century, much of the world’s oceans are expected to be inhospitable to corals and shelled organisms that support the food chain for the fish we eat (Orr et al. 2009). 
The details are what we turn to climatologists for, because Larkin is correct that climate modeling is complex and diffi­cult. It is due to that difficulty that climate model predic­tions have a significant range of possible outcomes. What is scary is that even the lower limit of the predicted range of sellout, had many empty seats. Perhaps this is due to the fact that in the past, professors can­celed classes and encouraged or required students to attend the highly advertised, one-time Forum event, which was held on a weekday afternoon. As a result, students did attend in large numbers. 
Additionally, by holding the Forum’s signature event in the evening, the University created conflicts with other events. For example, there was a women’s basketball exhibition game Wednesday night at Purcell Pavilion during the Forum. By requiring tickets and hosting the event in a small setting, stu­
dents had to plan ahead and stand in line if they 
wanted to attend. 
Like past forums, the event was publicized across campus through an online broadcast and through campus television. But the number of students dis­cussing the event in the days following is less than in previous years. 
In theory, the new style of the Forum is com­
mendable. Spreading out the Forum’s events allows students to engage with the topic in their own way and attend the events they find most interesting. But in practice, it still needs to work out some kinks. 
Friedman’s lecture suggested the necessity of engagement on the part of the student body. But this year, the undergraduate student population just isn’t engaged in the Forum. 
The best way to do this is to return to the old format for the signature Forum event, but to maintain the yearlong, special­ized discussions as well. 
Move the signature event back into the Purcell Pavilion. Work the topic into class curricula. If necessary, cancel classes for the Forum. Use the signature event as a gateway into more nuanced discussions students could find in the other, smaller events hosted throughout the school year, rather than as an addition to discussions students may not have attended. 
The Notre Dame Forum needs to be a combination of aca­demic interest and convenience, or undergraduates will either ignore it or feel they have been shut out of it. If the format changes to reflect this idea, students will go. They will grapple with the topic at hand. And they will be engaged. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Submit a Letter
“Television has done much for psychiatry by spreading informationabout it, as well as contributing tothe need for it.” 

to the Editor at 
Alfred Hitchcock www.ndsmcobserver.com British movie director 
impacts would result in insufficient drinking water for hun­dreds of millions of people and the loss of large and heavily populated coastal areas (Parry et al. 2007). 
The current “sureness” of the scientific community regard­ing the seriousness of global warming is not something to criticize. Scientists have been extremely cautious in reach­ing conclusions in this area, and have only reached their current level of certainty through decades of research by thousands of individuals. Much of what Larkin described as “doomsday predictions” is simply peer-reviewed publication of rigorous research. 
So who should be making moral decisions about the results of scientists’ research? According to Pope Benedict, “preser­vation of the environment, promotion of sustainable develop­ment and particular attention to climate change are matters of grave concern for the entire human family.” In other words, the responsibility belongs to everyone: scientist and layman, religious and secular, young and old. 
Notre Dame’s annual Dorm Energy Competition started on Monday and will continue the entire month of November. This is an opportunity for us to make a small but concrete difference as a campus community and to demonstrate that we share Pope Benedict’s concern. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Rachel Novick is the Education and Outreach Programs Manager in Notre Dame’s Office of Sustainability. She holds a Ph.D. in Ecology and Evolutionary Biology from Yale University. She can be contacted at Rachel.S.Novick.2@nd.edu 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Comedy is acting out optimism.” 
Robin Williams US actor and comedian 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Friday, November 5, 2010 page 9 
The ‘shellacking’ electoral lessons 
In 1982, 21 months into his presidency, Ronald Reagan’s approval rating stood at 42 percent sliding from 51 percent at his inauguration on its way to a low of 35 per­cent — hardly the type of lofty nostalgic remembrance for those who memorial­ize Reagan by nam­ing airports after him and proposing that his likeness be carved on Mount Rushmore. But for Reagan, con­ditions worsened dur­ing his tenure as unemployment rose Gary Caruso from 7.2 percent when he took office Capitol to peak in November Comments of 1982 at 10.8 per­cent while personal income stagnated to a mere 1.4 percent in the final quarter of the year. So while high unemployment condi­tions and an economic emergency greeted Barrack Obama at his inauguration, growth steadily rose — albeit anemically. 

While the American political season has become onerously long, the collective voter’s memory remains notoriously short. A political week can sometimes morph into an eternity, just as voters overwhelmingly broke for Reagan after he and President Jimmy Carter held their one and only debate a mere week before the 1980 elec­tion. During this election cycle, the elec­torate easily and quickly forgot political his­tory. Therefore, one might view Obama’s self-proclaimed “shellacking” as less a sign of future doom for the president, especially since the Republican-leaning Gallup poll shows Obama’s approval rating currently hovering at 44 percent, which is above Reagan’s rating at this point in his presi­dency. 
Reagan lost 27 Republican seats during his first mid-term election cycle, staunchly entrenching an already Democratic majori­ty in the House of Representatives. Obama lost 58 house seats, about half dozen more than the 52 Democrats gained in the last two elections, but lost only six of the 14 senators previously gained. Reagan’s first accomplishment was a massive tax reduc­tion. Yet the currently sitting Democratic Congress passed 25 separate tax cuts in 21 months, lowering today’s rates back to lev­els not seen since the 1950s. Democrats shrunk the federal deficit from 10 percent of GDP in Fiscal Year 2009 to 5.9 percent in Fiscal Year 2010. Was the electorate well informed of these accomplishments? 
One might also ask what other earth­shaking policies have the congressional Democrats and Obama enacted that imper­il our nation’s direction so much to warrant this week’s electoral rebuke. The president first signed the fair pay act that guaranteed equal pay for women. The stimulus pack­age instituted the largest tax cut ever, while promoting clean energy and revamping the college student loan system by ending waste of federal subsidies that paid banks to serve as private for-profit middle man, thus freeing money for more loans for more Americans. In an interview this week, George W. Bush defended the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) bailout as necessary to prevent the total collapse of our economic system in a brief, succinct way in his “gee whiz” country frat boy manner that Obama never crystallized in his own easy-to-understand message. 
The financial reform act curbed excesses that caused recession through regulation of Wall Street that protects the investments of Americans on “Main Street.” The “Cash for Clunkers” program gave cash credits directly to Americans to help stimulate the economy, the auto industry and reduce oil dependency as well as improve the air quality. The credit card reform prevents longstanding abrupt fee increases for con­sumers, and a new consumer financial pro­tection agency was created. 
Democrats appropriated the most resources ever for veterans by providing more access to caregivers, including female veterans, and consolidated the fragmented appropriations process so that veterans programs are now quickly and efficiently funded through Congress. Democrats tripled size of public service opportunities through AmeriCorps for young Americans. The Democratic Congress enacted a new land conservation law, gave the FDA authority to regulate tobacco and nicotine, passed a hate crimes bill based on sexual discrimination and enacted a law that pro­vides health insurance for 4 million previ­ously uncovered children. Most of these many accomplishments are not issues to be repudiated by the electorate. 
Obviously, the overall health care reform has been the most contentious issue of the Obama presidency. Yet it includes 30 mil­lion more Americans, allows parental poli­cies to cover their children up to age 26, ensures that insurance companies sell poli­cies to people with expensive pre-existing conditions, eliminates lifetime and annual caps on benefits, reduces costs that help reduce the federal deficit and is not a European or single payer system. Are these qualities of the initiative that warrant a “shellacking” at the ballot box? The answer was obviously, “yes.” 
President Obama is the academic, profes­sorial type. Unlike Ronald Reagan or Bill Clinton who could connect to every American, Obama at times seems distantly detached. Campaigning a month before this week’s election cannot undo the year and a half of loud, public opposition who defined his policies. He should have sold each step of his legislative successes. 
Incoming Speaker John Boehner said this week that Republicans will “work on behalf of the American people,” which translates that the president better do it the Republican way. Boehner said, “We’ll work with the administration when they agree with the American people and oppose them when they don’t.” 
For President Obama, his campaign has begun for 2012, and he must learn to bet­ter annunciate his policies so that he, like Ronald Reagan, can win reelection. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs direc­tor in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alum­ni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Refocusing 
This past Saturday, as the band paid tribute to Declan Sullivan by playing our Alma Mater, I looked around and saw the Notre Dame family holding each other, singing in his memory. I then looked down to the field at the players, so many of whom had wit­nessed the accident. It was then that I noticed Coach Kelly standing with the team, his head down, his hands clasped in front of him and an NBC news camera inches away from his face, which remained there for the rest of the song. That image has been in my head ever since. To me, it captures the mind­set that now surrounds the death of Declan Sullivan: finding out who is to blame. 
The recent death of Declan Sullivan was a terri­ble accident that has affected all of us Notre Dame students, whether we knew him or not. This acci­dent is even more tragic because it was preventable. In a perfect world, football practice would have been inside, or safety guidelines on the lift would have been followed. There are countless “what ifs” that could have prevented this accident and changed everything; however, going through them over and over again, as I am sure the Sullivan family has been, only brings anguish and frustration. It is human nature to want to have someone to blame — and maybe there is someone to blame — but what good will it bring once somebody is? Will it lessen the pain that the Sullivan family is going through? Will it bring people comfort to know that someone will have to live with that guilt for the rest of their life? And what can the blamed person even say to the Sullivan family other than “I am so sorry?” 
The thing about accidents is that they are tragic and horrible and heartbreaking, but sometimes they are just accidents. It is entirely appropriate to figure out how to prevent this tragedy from ever happening again — here or at any other school. However, in focusing our attention on figuring out who is to blame, we are cheapening the death and memory of Declan Sullivan. Instead of mourning for his death and praying for his family, so many have diminished this tragedy to a University scandal and legal battle. It is time to bring the focus back to what really mat­ters, and that is praying for the Sullivan family dur­ing this impossibly hard time and honoring the life of Declan Sullivan. 
Lauren McGrath 
freshman Ryan Hall Nov. 4 

This space? Right here? Yeah.  It’s boring. Fix it. 
Write a Letter to the Editor. 

Can one be moral in an immoral system? 
In his academic forum address, Thomas Friedman repeatedly criticized the failures of the U.S. economy to match the competitive needs of our global economy. This failure is certainly related to the decline of critical thinking and discourse, which requires more serious and empirically grounded discussions of the causes and effects of national and global economic policies than this forum demonstrated. 
Friedman’s popularity is the result of his over-simplistic and individualized account of how the world works. For him, the problems we’re facing result from the selfish actions of a single generation. One doesn’t need to feel disempowered by the hugeness of the problems we face, for individual action and “sustainable” values can make a difference. Nowhere in Friedman’s account is the problem of large-scale inequality addressed. Apparently all individuals in this “flat world” are equally able to improve their situation by plugging into the new technology that is globalization 3.0. 
Cute metaphors sell books and make one a popular journalist, but they don’t advance public knowledge and insight into what we need to do to solve the pressing problems of our day. 
Social science analysts of globalization trace the roots of the current crises back hundreds of years. These are not the result of one generation’s failures. Rather, they are the highly predictable outcomes of a world economy and decades of government poli­cies designed to seek perpetual growth. Changing individuals’ values won’t alter this. To borrow Friedman’s metaphor, we need to change the operating system, not just the users. And this will require more knowledge of the social structures and political processes that define the global political economy. 
Can we be satisfied with the idea that our individual goodness can overcome a funda­mentally immoral system, as Friedman suggests? Or as an earlier academic forum speaker, anthropologist and physician Paul Farmer concludes in his book, “Pathologies of Power,” are we “benefitting from a social and political order that promises a body count?” These are the tough questions we must ask to advance our thinking about the ethics of the global economy. 
Jackie Smith 

associate professor of Sociology and Peace Studies Nov. 5 
The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Friday, November 5, 2010 


Nathaniel Lee 
Scene Writer 



The Observer 

Scene
Friday, November 5, 2010 page 11 

By Mackenzie Hendrickson 
Scene Writer 

Despite what the artistically inclined will tell you, there is such a thing as attempting too much. From the time his mix tape “A Kid Named Cudi” propelled his voice from underground obscurity to immediate cultural relevance, Scott Mescudi has been trying to turn hip-hop head over foot. 
Mixing elements of hallucinatory experimentalism, indie rock-isms and dark-intentioned electronica, Cudi has been pushing the boundaries of style and tradition in order to remain rele­vant in the post-Kanye era when jer­seys and baggy pants have been shelved in favor of v-necks and skinny as his first, and in many ways, just as flawed. The album shines, however. Though one might be tempted to address the album as some sort of pre­cursor to Kanye’s upcoming release, the album actually exists within its own level of creativity and rejection of musi­cal norms. 
Though consider­ably more approach­able than his fresh­man work, “Man on the Moon 2” is just as dark. 

struct a dynamic track with his vocals alone. “Erase Me” stands tall as the catchiest track despite an embarrass­ingly off-style appearance by Kanye West. In fact, most guest spots are points of weakness. This is Cudi’s world. Find your own dream. 
The low points aren’t as detestable as on his first and, for the most part, fit within the dark sound and theme of the conception common among artists des­perate for innovation: He doesn’t need to try as hard as he thinks he does to be inventive. Originality flows from him naturally and a little more effort toward the radio and away from psychotic exploration would improve his image among most listeners while simultane­ously unaffecting his image in the art world. 

Ultimately, not only Cudi fans have learned to love his dark side, but also any mildly interested indie dabbler will enjoy this album. Cudi’s work tastes like wine: Time will improve it greatly. 
Now, however, Cudi still stands a lone silhouette on the horizon of musical innovation. He may not be headed in the perfect direction, but he doesn’t fear the future. 
Photos by Adriana Pratt 
GASPAR GARCIA DE PARDES | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Friday, November 5, 2010 
MLB 

Hall of Fame manager Anderson dies at 76 
Associated Press 
Reds fans were taken aback when Sparky Anderson showed up in Cincinnati for his first day as a big league manager, an unknown taking over baseball’s first profes­sional team. 
Sparky who? 
Really? 
By the time he was done, this man with the shock of white hair and schoolboy nickname would produce a considerable list of achieve­ments that featured three World Series titles—including crowns in each league—and a Hall of Fame entry on his resume. 
Anderson, who directed the Big Red Machine to back-to­back championships and won another in Detroit, died Thursday from complications 
of dementia in Thousand Oaks, Calif. He was 76. A day earlier, his family said he’d been placed in hospice care. 
Anderson was the first man­ager to win World Series titles in both leagues and the only manager to lead two franchis­es in career wins. 

“Sparky was, by far, the best manager I ever played for,” said former Reds star Pete Rose, the game’s career hits leader. “He understood people better than anyone I ever met. His players loved him, he loved his players, and he loved the game of baseball. There isn’t another person in baseball like Sparky Anderson. He gave his whole life to the game.” 
Anderson’s teams in Cincinnati—featuring Johnny Bench, Joe Morgan and Rose 
— won crowns in 1975 and 1976 and rank among the most powerful of all time. Led by Kirk Gibson and Alan Trammell, Anderson won with the Tigers in 1984. 
“He was a good guy,” former Tigers pitcher Jack Morris said, choking up over the news. “Baseball will have very few people like Sparky. He was a unique individual. He was a character with a great passion and love for the game.” 
Anderson never tried to overshadow his teams, giving his stars great leeway while trying to stay in the back­ground. At Anderson’s request, there will be no funeral or memorial service. 
Always affable, ever talka­tive and known for a self-dep­recating demeanor, Anderson was equally popular among players, fans and media. 
“Revered and treasured by his players for his humility, humanity, eternal optimism and knowledge of the game,” his Hall of Fame plaque reads. 
Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig called Anderson a gen­tleman and dear friend. 
“I recall with great fondness the many hours we would spend together when his Tigers came to Milwaukee,” Selig said. “Sparky was a loyal friend, and whenever I would be dealing with difficult situa­tions as commissioner, he would lift my spirits, telling me to keep my head up and that I was doing the right thing.” 
The Reds put a photo of Anderson on their outfield videoboard at Great American Ball Park on Thursday after­noon, honoring the man who led them to their greatest moments. 
“In one way or another, Sparky touched the life of every Reds fan,” owner Bob Castellini said. 
Anderson’s win total of 2,194 was the third highest when he retired after the 1995 season, trailing only Connie Mack and John McGraw. He’s still sixth on the career list—he won 863 games in nine years with the Reds and 1,331 in 17 seasons with the Tigers. 
He’ll be remembered as much for the little things that made him beloved as for the big numbers that made him a Hall of Famer. 
“Being a good baseball play­er and person went hand-in­hand with him,” said Alan Trammell, the 1984 World Series MVP who is Arizona’s bench coach. “He wanted us to put our dirty clothes in the bin so that the clubhouse guys didn’t have to pick up after us.” 
In many ways away from the field, he was a teacher. 
“He had a lot to do with molding me professionally and taught me a lot about perseverance,” Morris said. 
Anderson knew all about perseverance. 
George “Sparky” Anderson got his nickname in the minor leagues because of his spirit­ed play. He made it to the majors for only one season, batting .218 for the Phillies in 1959. 
Anderson learned to control a temper that nearly scuttled his fledgling career as a man­ager in the minors, and went on to become one of baseball’s best at running a team. And he won with a humility that couldn’t obscure his unique ability to manage people. 
“I got good players, stayed out of their way, let them win a lot and then just hung around for 26 years,” he said during his Hall of Fame acceptance speech in 2000. 
Of course, there was a lot more to him. He liked to twist the language, using double-negatives to make a round­about point. He also reassessed things constantly. 
“To be around me, you have to be a little bit cuckoo,” Anderson said on the day he resigned from the Tigers after the 1995 season. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

No. 1 Oregon uses signs to convey plays 
Associated Press 
EUGENE, Ore. — That poster on Oregon’s sideline emblazoned with the face of the Burger King is not some sort of advertising ploy. It’s a play. 
Top-ranked Oregon, in an effort to speed up its lightning-fast offense, uses seemingly nonsensi­cal placards hoisted on the side­line to convey plays to the Ducks on the field. 
The signs are split into quad­rants of pictures, and can include photos of sportscasters, graphic images and even words. One recently included ESPN’s Rece Davis, a map of New Hampshire, a battleship and the word “glycer­ine.” 
There is nothing really new in flashing numbers or colors from the sideline, usually used along­side traditional hand signals and on-field audibles, to identify plays—especially for no-huddle teams such as Oregon. 
But the Ducks are different because their signs are so amus­ing. And, as the No. 1 team in the country, undefeated Oregon is get­ting a lot of TV time, so more peo­ple are taking notice. 
Oklahoma State used similar signs against Oregon in the 2008 Holiday Bowl, but the Ducks bor­rowed ideas from several teams and devised their own system. Much like the team took the spread-option offense and made it their own. 

“There’s a lot of different sys­tems out there, and a lot of good ones,” Oregon offensive coordina­tor Mark Helfrich said. “This one we just tried to meld with our guys.” 
Oklahoma State’s signs in 2008 were divided into six sections with various letters, numbers, symbols and words. The reasoning, just like at Oregon, was to speed up play calling, said Gunter Brewer, the Cowboys co-offensive coordi­nator that season. 
He believes Oklahoma State was the first to use poster-sized cards flashed from the sideline. 
“We didn’t make the wheel. We just made it rounder,” Brewer said. 
The Cowboys would create new signs for each game, keeping a step ahead of any opponents who wanted to try to decipher the codes. Brewer, now a receivers coach at Oklahoma State, says that to his knowledge nobody ever figured them out. 
The Cowboys have since moved away from the system, but Brewer said he remembers that Oregon coach Chip Kelly visited the Cowboys one spring and asked about the signs. He’s glad to see the Ducks having success using them. 
“They are the fastest team in football right now, there’s no doubt about it,” Brewer said. “Everybody wants to emulate them.” 
The signs are certainly all about speed. 
“We tried to have one word to communicate 10 words, or one picture communicate 10 words, something that would give our guys an immediate association so they could get out there and play fast,” Helfrich said. 
Oregon has the top-ranked offense in the nation, averaging 
572.88 yards a game. The Ducks also are leading the country with an average of 55.88 points. There’s no doubt that they’re quick. 
Some have said the Ducks moved to the system because there were concerns that Ohio State may have caught on to Oregon’s play-calling in last sea­son’s Rose Bowl. The Buckeyes won the game 26-17. 
Helfrich said that was not true. 

“We had some suspicions of that earlier on (in the season), so we started using multiple signalers. That was probably more our paranoia that anything. But that was not the thing that started it. It was being fast.” 
Duck fans have even made a game out of creating sideline signs. One that has made the rounds on the internet before this Saturday’s game against Washington features a Husky puppy and a photo of a dumpster on fire. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
AVAILABLE NOW 4BD/2BA HOME UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't If I had to go back on [the decision], 
FOR RENT. go it alone. Notre Dame has many I probably would do it a little bit dif-WANTED 1.5 miles from ND 574-876-6333 resources in place to assist you. If ferent.
FOR SALE FOR RENT 
you or someone you love needs -:Lebron James 
confidential support or assistance, ——————————————— JAMBA JUICE opening soon at House for sale on Angela. IRISH CORNER APARTMENTS please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 If it’s going to be an interview, I’m Eddy Street Commons. New upscale apts. Less than 1 mi PERSONAL or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more going to conduct it. I’ll ask myself Part-time employees desired. 2.5K sq ft home. from ND, next to Taco Bell on information, visit ND's website at: the questions, then give y’all the Former Jamba Juice employees SR933. Fully furnished apts w/gran-http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. answers.” welcome. 4BR 3.5BA. ite countertops, GE appliances If you or someone you care about ——————————————— -Randy Moss 
w/dishwasher. Each has 2bd/2bath. has been sexually assaulted, we FUNNY SPORTS QUOTES FROM ——————————————— Please contact Dian at Furniture ?, fully redone. Mstr. bdrm w/walkin closet. No can help. THE PAST WEEK "I mean, obviously I'll be Prime juice1240@gmail.com. water/sewer bill. $1000/mo starting. Minister one day, but not until after I Looking forward to connecting $365K 574-232-2211 on web at Call JSK Development 574-387-For more information, visit Notre I want to rage.....Right now! finished playing basketball." with you. 610.sbrp.us 4466. Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu. - Brian Wilson -Steve Nash ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Friday, November 5, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
MLB 

Giants drop World Series MVP Renteria 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — The champion San Francisco Giants declined to exercise their $9.5 million option on World Series MVP Edgar Renteria(notes) on Thursday, instead paying him a $500,000 buyout. 
It’s no surprise because the 34-year-old Renteria is consid­ering retirement after an injury-plagued season. Still, the Giants had to make the deci­sion only three days after Renteria’s tiebreaking three-run homer off Cliff Lee(notes) in the seventh inning Monday night helped San Francisco win the franchise’s first title since moving West in 1958. 
“He was obviously a big rea­son we won, not just the last game but the whole playoff run,” said Bobby Evans, the Giants’ vice president of base­ball operations. “Edgar played a huge role, whether in the clubhouse, on the field, or his leadership and his profession­alism and his ability to string together some very good games and big hits for us.” 

The shortstop said Wednesday he will rest for a while before determining his future. 
“It’s always hard to think about retiring,” Renteria said after the team’s victory parade. “I want to rest. Whew, I feel great.” 
A five-time All-Star, Renteria batted .412 (7 for 17) with two homers and six RBIs in the Series. He had all of three home runs and 22 RBIs during an injury-filled regular season that included three stints on the disabled list. 

ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING 
ConfdentsquadhostsPurdue 
By KATHARINE MACK 
Sports Writer 

Coming off a 150-93 dis­mantling of Michigan State last Friday, the Irish will be looking to get their second straight victory Saturday when they take on Purdue at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
The No. 22 Boilermakers are looking to build off a third-place finish at the SMU Classic last Friday. 
“Our practices have been the same as they have been leading up to other meets,” senior Samantha Maxwell said. “We are really trying to keep the big picture in mind right now during training, which is championship sea­son.” 
The Irish took on Purdue last year on the road, losing 121-179. This year’s squad has an advantage going into Saturday’s meet in that Purdue will be swimming Friday evening at Northwestern. 
“Going into Saturday’s meet, we have to expect closer races,” Maxwell said. “Purdue is a very good team and they are going to be challenging us from the first race.” 
All events should be close, as this weekend’s meet will serve as an indicator for the Irish. 
“The butterfly events should be especially interesting to watch because both teams have extremely talented swimmers entered in the events,” Maxwell said. “Both our team and Purdue are in the middle of a season of hard training, and the meet is going to be a good indicator of what needs to come next in training.” 

The Irish take on Purdue at 1 p.m. Saturday at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Contact Katharine Mack at kmack1@nd.edu 


page 14 The Observer u SPORTS Friday, November 5, 2010 
MLB 

Rangers manager Washington signs extension 
two one-year options that were both exercised by the team. But Washington never got an extension. 
Late in the 2009 season, Washington thought he had cost himself the job when he admitted to using cocaine once and failed a drug test. 
Washington offered to resign, but Ryan and Daniels stuck by their manager then, and again last spring when the story became public and he told his players what happened. 
After beating the defending World Series champion New York Yankees in six games in the AL championship series, Texas lost the World Series in five games to the San Francisco Giants. The final game was a 3-1 loss at home Monday night. 
Ryan also plans a contract extension for Daniels, who still has a year left on his deal. 
As for Washington’s coaching staff, Daniels expects the only possible change would be if hitting coach Clint Hurdle leaves to take a managerial job. Hurdle, a former manager, was scheduled to interview with the Pittsburgh Pirates about their opening. 
“I’m a big fan of Ron Washington, and I’m just happy that he’s starting to get the respect that he deserves, results that he deserves,” said Jackie Moore, the Rangers bench coach who just complet­ed his 53rd consecutive year in pro baseball. 
“The biggest compliment that a manager can get in baseball is for his team to play hard for him every game,” Moore said. “This club really took on his personality and played hard 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas — Manager Ron Washington signed a new two-year contract Thursday with the AL champi­on Texas Rangers, a move that had been expected since before the playoffs began. 
“This was a formality as much as anything. There was never a question about our manager going forward,” gen­eral manager Jon Daniels said. “We’re not in the postseason, not in the World Series, with­out his leadership.” 
The deal through the 2012 season was completed three days after the end of the Rangers’ first World Series. 
While there are no additional option years with the new deal, Daniels said he expects the emotional and often excitable Washington to be the Rangers manager “for many years to come.” 
Washington didn’t have a contract past 2010, but team president Nolan Ryan and Daniels had made it clear dur­ing the season they wanted him back. They sat down and got it done before the manager planned to go home to New Orleans. 

Washington has a 331-317 record over four seasons in his first managerial job, and the Rangers improved their win total each of the past three seasons. After a 75-87 mark in 2007, his first season, Texas followed by winning 79 games, then 87 and 90 this season. 
“That’s what baseball is about, the bar being set high. I wouldn’t expect anything less,” Washington said. “I don’t feel any pressure. We have good team with a solid foundation, players that believe in the game of baseball and believe in each other. All we can do is get better as we move forward.” 
The Rangers had never won a postseason series, or even a home playoff game, before this year. This was only the 17th winning record in 39 seasons since moving to Texas after the franchise started as the expan­sion Washington Senators in 1961. 
“It is no accident we are a very resilient club, a very suc­cessful club,” Daniels said. “Those are attributes Ron brings with him every day.” 
When hired to replace the fired Buck Showalter in November 2006, Washington got a two-year contract with for him and left it all on the field.” 

Daniels hired Washington exactly a year after he had been named the youngest GM in major league history. 
Washington had been an assistant coach for 11 seasons in Oakland, where he had been credited for developing the organization’s top infielders. Third baseman Eric Chavez gave one of his six Gold Gloves to Washington. 
NFL 

TE Gates may be out 
Associated Press 
SAN DIEGO — The San Diego Chargers, who might be without star tight end Antonio Gates on Sunday at Houston due to a foot injury, signed wide receiver Kelley Washington. 
Washington was signed two days after wide receiver Craig “Buster” Davis was placed on injured reserve because of a groin injury, meaning his season is over. The Chargers also have been without wide receivers Legedu Naanee and Malcom Floyd due to hamstring injuries. 
Gates has plantar fascia as well as turf toe. The Chargers didn’t list the plantar fascia on Wednesday’s injury report, the first of the week. A spokesman says it was an “oversight” and it would be added on Thursday’s report. 
Gates didn’t practice again on Thursday. 
“In the last three weeks he’s had one day of practice,” coach Norv Turner said. 
“I don’t know if he’ll be able to practice tomorrow and I don’t know if he’ll be able to play on Sunday. He’s getting better.” 



Friday, November 5, 2010 The Observer u SPORTS page 15 
NFL 

Titans think Moss is good fit 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — The Tennessee Titans don’t feel like they took a chance claim­ing Randy Moss off the waiver wire. 
They think they got lucky and hit the lottery. 
The Titans are confident the move will translate into wins 
— maybe even the missing piece that could deliver owner Bud Adams and coach Jeff Fisher their first Super Bowl. 
Fisher, the NFL’s longest-tenured coach, is known as a player’s coach who holds his guys accountable. The Titans (5-3) are winning with a strong locker room hungry for the franchise’s first postsea­son win since January 2004, which should keep Moss focused for their eight-game playoff push. 
All reasons why, though no one else in the NFL wanted the 13-year veteran, the Titans feel Moss now is on the right team at the right time. 
“This is a great opportunity for him,” Fisher. “It’s a fresh start. We’ve got a great locker room. They’ll accept him. I’m confident he’ll accept his new 


AP Titans receiver Randy Moss addresses the press Oct. 7. Moss was signed by the Titans after he was released by the Vikings. 
teammates as well.” 
Fisher himself is the biggest reason this can work. 
He has dealt with egos — Adam “Pacman” Jones and Albert Haynesworth and run­ning back LenDale White — coaxing out big punt returns, interceptions, sacks and touchdowns before those players wore out their wel­come in Tennessee. The Titans eventually traded away Jones and White, and let Haynesworth walk via free agency. 



Now in his 16th full season, Fisher also has enough clout to make personnel decisions as he sees fit. Fisher is a for­mer player with a good feel when to practice longer or turn a session into a walk-through, which his players notice. 
Not that the Titans are expecting any issues. 
They did their homework on Moss, including talking to backup quarterback Kerry Collins. Moss and Collins were teammates for a year in Oakland, and Collins calls him a great teammate. Fisher also talked to Moss himself and said the receiver is excited to come to Tennessee. 
Pope 
continued from page 17 
lead the charge. 

“Browder and Pepe are going to tame the Dawg defense this week,” Sullivan said. 
While Sorin has been cruising to victories, the Dawgs have been the kings of close games. Their 18-6 win over No. 6 Carroll in the first round was their first game this season decided by double digits. 
Alumni (4-1) employs a triple option attack, orchestrated by freshman quarterback Will Cronin, that grinds down both the clock and defenses. Junior running back tandem Dan Dansdill and Barrick Bollman also contribute heavily to the offense. 
In the first round, the Dawgs did not throw a single pass on their way to 213 yards on the ground. Time of possession also heavily favored Alumni. 
The more Alumni has the ball, the less its great defense is on the field. On the year, the Dawgs’ defense has not allowed more than eight points in a game and has held two oppo­nents scoreless. 
There will be no leashes on the field Sunday at 2 p.m. when Sorin takes on Alumni with a trip to Notre Dame Stadium on the line. 
Contact Sam Gans at sgans@nd.edu and Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu 
NFL 

Reggie Bush practices with Saints Thursday 
Associated Press 

METAIRIE, La. — Reggie Bush was limited during Saints practice on Thursday, raising his prospects for get­ting back in the lineup for the first time since breaking a bone in his lower right leg in the second game of the sea­son. 
“It felt pretty good — still a little bit of pain there but nothing that I couldn’t han­dle. Nothing that wasn ’t expected,” Bush said. “We’ll just keep pushing every day and see what happens at the end of this week.” 
Head coach Sean Payton stopped short of saying he thought Bush would be ready to go by this Sunday’s game at Carolina. 
“He’s still not moving the way you’d like, but I think he’s making a lot of progress quickly and so each day we try to give him more to do,” Payton said. “More than any­thing, it’s still getting to where he’s real confident and comfortable planting and driving off of that leg. But he certainly did more today than he did yesterday or up until now.” 
The Saints have a bye after they play Carolina on Sunday, but Payton had said this week that players who are healthy enough to suit up will do so as opposed to getting extra rest until after the bye. 
Bush fractured his fibula when he dove on his muffed punt and players piled on top of him in the fourth quarter of the Saints’ 25-22 victory at San Francisco on Sept. 20. 
Bush never had surgery and said he maintained condition­ing with low-impact training in pools and on stationary bikes in the six weeks since the injury. 
“Obviously I want to be in there and I feel like it’s been long enough to where my leg is fine and I shouldn’t have to worry about any re-injury or anything like that,” Bush said. “It would be great if I can get out there this week­end and at least run around a little bit and get some plays in here and there, just to get back into the feeling of it.” 
Bush said if it were up to him, he probably would play, but added that he would trust the coaches and training staff to make the final call. 
“I definitely want to get back in there and play,” Bush said. “To miss another game, obviously it’s tough to sit on the sideline, but if that’s what they decide and they feel like that’s the best thing for me and for my health and for the team, then obviously that’s what we’ll have to do.” 
Meanwhile, starting corner-backs Tracy Porter and Jabari Greer both practiced fully and Payton sounded confident that the pair would return. 
Porter has been out since hurting his left knee in Week 4 against Carolina, while Greer has been out since hurting his shoulder at Tampa Bay in Week 6. 
Running back Pierre Thomas remains on crutches to keep weight off of his sprained left ankle, but said he hopes to be using only a walking boot during the bye week. 
“I feel pain all over my ankle,” Thomas said. “They touch different spots and they say, ‘You feel it there?’ And I say, ‘Yeah, I feel it there.’ So I really messed it up. They say I really messed it up pretty bad.” 
Thomas said doctors have not mentioned the possibility of surgery and he does not want to consider that option at this point. 
“I know if I have surgery, I’m done this season,” Thomas said. “I’m not think­ing that. I don’t want that. I’m going to take that nega­tivity and throw it away. I’m thinking positive and that I’m going to get back on the field.” 


page 16 The Observer u SPORTS Friday, November 5, 2010 
always gets back to the line of scrimmage and keeps on 
Ramblers 
continued from page 20 
have turned it on recently, win­ning their playoff opener by 25 points. 
“I’ve been very pleased with how the team has performed as the season progressed,” Siegfried senior left tackle and captain Michael McDonnell said. “We’re going to come into the game with a bunch of confi­dence, expecting to win.” 
Despite the confidence, the Ramblers are wary of the Big Red’s success this season, and know just how big of a chal­lenge the game will be. 
“You can’t refute the fact that they are perfect right now,” McDonnell said. “They’ve scored 72 points more than all their opponents. They’ll be the toughest opponent that we’ve faced so far.” 
Dillon also expects a tough battle, given how much success the Ramblers have had in the playoffs in the past. 
“They have won the past two championships,” Dillon senior captain Jordan Smith said. “They’re a big team with a real­ly good system. If we do not play our best football, there’s a good chance we’ll lose.” 
While Siegfried has kept the ball mostly on the ground to make the semis, Dillon uses both a strong passing game, led by freshman quarterback Kevin Fink, bolstered by a solid run­ning game. 
“We’ve got a lot of really good football players on our team,” Smith said. “[Sophomore run­ning back] Terry Howard the last few weeks has run the ball extremely hard. Even if he’s getting hit in the backfield, he going.” 
The Big Red are looking for­ward to a game that should be intense and physical. 
“We’re really excited to play Siegfried,” Smith said. “They want to come out and hit us. This is going to be a fun game.” 
Siegfried and Dillon square off at 1 p.m. at the LaBar Practice Complex on Sunday for a spot in the Stadium. 
Alumni vs. Sorin 
In the past, it’s been mouse traps and pool workouts. But this week, No. 2 Sorin’s football practices were even wackier. 
“We’ve been practicing with leashes this week,” Sorin junior wide receiver Bobby Sullivan said. “It helps out our power to work with resistance.” 
Sorin (4-1), fresh off a 14-0 win over No. 7 Morrissey in the first round, will look for its fifth consecutive victory when the Otters play No. 3 Alumni in a semifinal this weekend. 
While Sorin’s offense — directed by sophomore quarter­back Ted Spinelli — gets the headlines, it is its defense that has keyed its win streak. In the past four games, the defense has not given up more than six points in a game and has held opponents to a mere two points per game. 
“The Dawgs are in for a rough one this week,” Sullivan said. “They’re barking up the wrong tree.” 
The Otters’ offense, mean­while, is averaging nearly 19 points a game during the win streak. Senior captain and run­ning back Michael Browder and junior fullback Matthew Pepe 
see POPE/page 15 


Jackson 
continued from page 20 
“And we’re getting fairly con­sistent play right now out of [Kevin] Lind and [Shayne] Taker. I think Stephen Johns has been a huge component to our physicality back in our own end.” 
Jackson added that Notre Dame would face a similar challenge in the Falcons as it saw last weekend against the Broncos. 
“[Bowling Green is] going to be like Western Michigan 
— new coach, young, enthu­siastic,” he said. “They’re going to have a great work ethic and they’ve got some good players on their team.” 
Up front, Notre Dame ’s most productive line has been comprised of seniors Ben Ryan and Ryan Guentzel and freshman Anders Lee. Guentzel leads the team in scoring with nine assists, though he has yet to light the lamp himself. 
“He ’s got great hockey instincts, he sees the ice and he makes good decisions with the puck, and he’s playing with guys right now that can benefit from that,” Jackson said of Guentzel. 
Lee has exploded onto the scene for the Irish, leading the team with six goals just seven games into his college career. 
“[Lee] is a pure goal-scor­er,” Jackson said. “He’s the guy that you want to get the puck at the end of the play, not at the front end.” 
One of the pleasant surpris­es for Jackson has been the play of his fourth line of freshmen David Gerths, Jeff Costello and Mike Voran. The three have combined for eight points on the year, and Gerths scored two goals in Notre Dame’s 3-2 win over Western Michigan. 
“I think one of the benefits 
of them being together is there’s no pressure,” Jackson said of the line. “If you’re playing with a senior or jun­ior, guys that are expected to be effective offensively or whatever, sometimes there’s a pressure to get the puck to the senior or the junior. With not having an upperclassmen on that line, there’s no pres­sure.” 
On the defensive end, Notre Dame has been aided by strong play from sophomore goaltender Mike Johnson. On the season, Johnson has posted a 1.97 goals against average with a .934 save per­centage. 
“I just think he’s in much better shape right now, phys­ically,” Jackson said of his netminder. “Endurance-wise, I think he’s better, and he’s gotten stronger, which has allowed him to move across the crease with a lot more power.” 
Even though the Falcons finished 11th in the CCHA last year, Jackson said play­ing on the road always pres­ents challenges, whether the venue is Bowling Green or Michigan. 
“Every building has its own feeling, ” Jackson said. “Bowling Green has got a low ceiling, it’s a loud building. It’s tight corners and the fans are right on top of you … our guys generally perform bet­ter when there ’s a good 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 


Friday, November 5, 2010 The Observer u SPORTS page 17 
Ducks 
continued from page 20 
identity. 
“Coming from such a small dorm, we all know each other and work together outside of football,” Robinson said. “That sisterhood has allowed us to achieve success so far, and we know it will continue.” 
This week, Howard hopes to repeat its regular-season suc­cess against Pangborn and return to Notre Dame Stadium to defend its Interhall crown. 
“Last year was such an amazing experience,” Robinson said. “Running out of the tunnel was a tremen­dous feeling, and winning the game made it even better. It would be great to get back.” 
Kickoff is 2 p.m. Sunday at the LaBar Practice Complex. 
Pasquerilla West vs. McGlinn 
Following McGlinn’s 31-14 defeat at the hands of Pasquerilla West in the second game of the season, Shamrocks junior coach Steven deGroot congratulated the Purple Weasels (5-0) on their game and hoped to see them again later in the year. 
The McGlinn coach will get his wish Sunday, as the Shamrocks (3-2) take on the Weasels, hoping for a trip to Notre Dame Stadium. 
A much-improved No. 6 McGlinn squad will look to use its speed on defense and the confidence it gained from a huge upset win over No. 3 Cavanaugh in the quarterfi­nals last week to take down No. 2 Pasquerilla West. 
“Our defense has steadily improved since the last time we saw [Pasquerilla West] and we are much more versatile and confident in being able to adapt to different styles of offense,” Shamrocks senior captain Gillian Allsup said. “Our goal is to stop the [option] run and limit yards after the catch because that is how they were so successful against us last time.” 

Last week, the Shamrock defense was relentless, inter­cepting four passes and only yielding six points. They now have the task of stopping the Purple Weasels’ deceptive triple-option offense that scored 31 points in the teams’ first meeting. Senior quarter­back Simone Bigi, who threw for five touchdowns and 205 yards in the first matchup in September, leads the Pasquerilla West offensive attack. 
“We expect a lot from our offense to start strong and build momentum from the beginning,” Pasquerilla West senior captain Libby Koerbel said. “Momentum is the key to the game, and both our offense and defense are equal­ly important to contributing to this.” 
Koerbel leads a Weasels defense that only gave up 71 yards and one touchdown in the second half of the teams’ last meeting. The defense was exposed by big plays in last week’s overtime win over No. 7 Lewis. 
“Even though we scored 31 points on [McGlinn] earlier, it didn’t feel like an easy win,” Koerbel said. “I expect our team to remain focused this week so we can get to the championship game.” 
The division rivals will meet on Sunday at the LaBar Practice Complex at 3 p.m. for the rematch. 
Contact John Hefferon at jheffero@nd.edu and Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
ROWING 

Irish prepare for regatta 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 

Having navigated the first half of the fall season’s short slate, Notre Dame is preparing for its third regatta, which will be held Sunday against Indiana University. The event, which takes place in Indianapolis, is considered a scrimmage and will not count toward either school’s record. 
The action will consist of five minute races, with both compet­ing boats starting at the same time and racing for distance, rather than time. 
Irish coach Martin Stone said his teams have never participat­ed in such an event so early in the year. Stone said the regatta’s departure from the ordinary structure of fall season events will help prepare his squad for the primary season in the spring. 
“It’s a different format,” he said. “It’s just to see what we need to get better at. We’ve never done this format before in the fall, but it’s becoming more popular. It’s going to help us transition into the spring.” 
The Hoosiers come into Sunday’s scrimmage having placed eighth out of 45 compet­ing teams in their race at the Princeton Chase last weekend on Lake Carnegie in Princeton, N.J. 
After those results, Stone said Indiana will race well against the Irish. 
“I expect them to be very com­petitive,” Stone said. “They raced very well at the Princeton Chase, finishing in the top eight.” 
One point of emphasis this week has been finding a consis­tent lineup for the varsity eight boats, which will be important once Notre Dame returns from its winter offseason. Stone said he will have a better idea after this week’s training who he will place together in the eight-man shells. 
“We spent more time in the eights this week than last week,” he said. “We’re probably closer to having a lineup there.” 
The crew will face the Hoosiers Sunday at 11 a.m. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Notre Dame faces Golden Eagles 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Associate Sports Editor 

For Irish coach Bobby Clark, the Big East tournament provides his squad with three opportuni­ties — a smooth transition to postseason play, a boost in RPI and the glory of winning a tour­nament. 
Saturday’s quarterfinal match against Marquette will be the first chance for Notre Dame to take advantage of those opportu­nities. 
“The main thing is that it’s a dry run for the NCAA tourna­ment,” Clark said. “It gets you from regular season mode to postseason mode, because there’s a slightly different mentality — you don’t get any second chances in the postseason.” 

The No. 19 Irish (9-4-4, 6-2-1) enter the Big East Championships riding a four-game unbeaten streak after defeating conference foes Seton Hall, Pittsburgh and Georgetown and battling to a draw with No. 9 Connecticut. 
Marquette (6-7-4, 3-4-2) lost three out of its last four regular season games, but upset higher-seeded Saint John’s in the first round of the conference tourna­ment to reach the quarterfinals. 
Multiple wins for the Irish in the tournament will give them an advantage in the rankings. They are currently ranked 10th in the RPI, but Clark said he believes that they can improve their standing. 
“In a practical sense, it’s good to win because it gets you a good setup in the NCAA tournament,” he said. “Certainly you want to be in the top-16, but moving into the top-8 provides you with an extra home game, and if you can move into the top-4, you have home field advantage through the final four, as long as you keep win­ning.” 
But the practical benefit is not the only motivation for winning the tournament, Clark said. 
“It’s always nice to win the Big East tournament and get that tro­phy. It’s why you play things — to be the best. That’s easier said than done — every game is diffi­cult.” 
Clark is confident that his team will be ready to enter postseason play Saturday against Marquette, even though his team still has growing to do. 
“I think we’re still growing,” he said. “We started with only three returning starters, so we’ve been trying all season to have the guys playing there best at this point in the season. We’ve played our best soccer over the past three weeks, but there’s still room for growth. 
“Hopefully we can keep win­ning, which will allow us to keep growing. But nothing happens unless we’re ready to play Marquette. It will be a chal­lenge.” 
Notre Dame will face off with the Golden Eagles Saturday at 6 
p.m. at Alumni Field. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer u SPORTS Friday, November 5, 2010 

Brown 
continued from page 20 
The Irish then return home Sunday to take on No. 13 Northern Iowa (22-2, 13-0 Missouri Valley Conference). Although the game is an out-of­conference match, Brown stressed that this game is a vital opportunity for her squad to prove itself on the national level. 
“This is a chance for us to compete against a top team,” Brown said. “A win in this game would really enhance our chances for the NCAA tourna­ment.” 
The match against Northern Iowa will also be Senior Day for the Irish. Brown said she real­izes that the match will be emo­tional for the senior class, and may provide extra motivation for her players to fight for a Notre Dame victory. 
“It’s special because the play­ers know it’s the last time to play at home with this group that they’ve gotten to know over four years,” she said. “There is always an added incentive to win on Senior Day, and end their time at Notre Dame on a positive note.” 
Although the Northern Iowa game is important for the Irish, their focus this week has been on Villanova as conference suc­cess and seeding in the approaching conference tourna­ment have taken precedence. Still, Brown and the Irish are looking forward to the challenge against a top team. 
“Even though the Villanova game has been our top priority, we have looked at some Northern Iowa,” Brown said. “It will be a really challenging match, and we are really excited about it.” 
The match at Villanova begins at 7 p.m. Friday, while the Senior Day match will be held Sunday at 2 p.m at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish split up over weekend 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame will compete in its final tournaments of the fall sea­son this weekend as the focus begins to shift toward the spring season. 
The squad will be split between the Crimson Tide Invitational and the William and Mary Invitational. 
The William and Mary Invitational, which will be held at the McCormack-Nagelsen Tennis Center, includes four teams. Each squad will show­case six singles flights and three 
Brey 
continued from page 20 

least early on, so you see how guys react to that, and you see who stays in character with the lights on.” 
The Irish played well in their first exhibition game against Marian University, defeating the Knights 85-52. Four play­ers scored in double-digits, and Brey believes that well-balanced, versatile offense is the team’s strength. 
“I think with the group we start, you’ve got so many interchangeable parts where guys can pass and catch and the first for the Irish in two weeks, when a few players par­ticipated in the Midwest Regional Championships from Oct. 21 to 25. It will be the first team-wide event since the Harvard Invitational, which took place from Oct. 1 to 3. 
A goal heading into the fall season was picking up valuable experience and good playing habits leading into the second half of their season, which is more important in terms of wins and losses. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 

doubles flights in the tourna­ment. 
The Crimson Tide Invitational will take place in Tuscaloosa, Ala., and is hosted by the University of Alabama, the sec­ond tournament they have host­ed this season. Teams from 10 states will participate in the three-day event. The programs that will be represented include Alabama, Auburn, Virginia Tech and Tennessee. The Volunteers bring an impressive squad to the courts, as last year’s team fin­ished second in the Campbell Rankings last season. 
This weekend’s action will be 
play at different spots on the floor,” Brey said. “[Senior for­ward] Ty Nash is inside the most for us, but we’ve also posted other guys up, and Nash has ended up handling the ball for us a lot, so it’s truly five guys who are very interchangeable — on both ends of the floor.” 
Nash scored nine against Marian, and chipped in a team-high eight rebounds for the Irish. Fourth-year forward Tim Abromaitis and senior forward Scott Martin led Notre Dame with 15 points each, and senior guard Ben Hansbrough recorded six assists. 
Sophomore Mike Broghammer, who did not play against Marian because of an injury, is healthy and ready to go against Catholic, Brey said. Broghammer will join fellow sophomore forwards Tom Knight and Jack Cooley as the squad’s conventional post players. 
“We’re going to have him [against Catholic],” Brey said. “We were very cautious, and we wanted to go two full days of practice and then play him on Saturday.” 
Notre Dame tips off against Catholic University Saturday at 7 p.m. in the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 


Friday, November 5, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


TUESDAY VAR ETY SHOW 
LAURA McGINN 


JEFF KNUREK
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


THAT SCRAMBLED WORD GAME by Mike Argirion and Jeff Knurek Unscramble these four Jumbles, one letter to each square, to form four ordinary words. 
LAGED  

 
 
 
 
 

©2010 Tribune Media Services, Inc. All Rights Reserved. 
KYDUS  

 
 
 
 
 

ABBIDE  

 
 
 
 
 
 

NEW BIBLE Jumble Books Go To: http://www.tyndale.com/jumble/ 


NAHMLY  

 
 
 
 
 
 


“ 

” 
Answer here: A 

(Answers tomorrow) Jumbles: SURLY FRAUD NUMBER BUSHEL Yesterday’s 
Answer: What the city fathers used to clean up after the winter storm — A “SLUSH” FUND 
 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Friday, November 5, 2010 page 20 
HOCKEY 

Hitting the road 
Notre Dame heads to Bowling Green 
By SAM WERNER 
Sports Writer 
The Irish hit the road against Bowling Green this weekend for the first of two consecutive series away from the friendly confines of the Joyce Center. 
Notre Dame got its first taste of CCHA road action last weekend in a Saturday night road tilt against Western Michigan in Kalamazoo, Mich., which ended in a 2-2 tie. Irish coach Jeff Jackson said he was pleased with how his young team responded to the hostile environment, particu­larly the defensemen. Four Irish freshmen played on the blue line against the Broncos. 

“I thought [freshman defenseman] Jared Beers did a nice job,” Jackson said. YUE WU/The Observer 
Sophomore goaltender Mike Johnson gets in position to stop a shot Lake Superior State Oct. 15. The see JACKSON/page 17 Irish head to Bowling Green this weekend for a pair of conference games. 

MEN’S INTERHALL 
Siegfried, Dillon to clash 
By SAM GANS and 
MATTHEW DeFRANK 
Sports Writers 
Something will have to give this week when No. 1 Dillon battles No. 5 Siegfried in a semifinal Sunday. 
Dillon (5-0) is the only unde­feated team left. Siegfried (4-1) is the two-time defending cham­pions and is looking to make it to Notre Dame Stadium for the third straight year. Either Dillon’s winning streak or Siegfried’s consecutive years of championship runs will be snapped by mid-afternoon Sunday. 
Siegfried is hoping to use a strong option attack led by sen­ior quarterback Matt Meinert and sophomore running backs Bryce Burton and David Whitmore to propel them to vic­tory. After dropping their third contest, the Ramblers have 
see RAMBLERS/page 16 


WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Ducks square off against Phoxes; McGlinn faces PW 
deficit to win 25-19 in overtime. Howard squad that beat them in to utilize a shorter passing game that game without senior Kayla
By JOHN HEFFERON and 

In a game that seemed like it the regular season 21-7. In that to avoid costly interceptions. Bishop, their quarterback and
ANDREW GASTELUM 

would be decided early, game, the Ducks (5-0) held “We’ve been working on captain. Led by senior wide
Sports Writers 

Pangborn senior quarterback Pangborn to a lone touchdown quicker passes, and having our receiver Kaitlin Robinson, who Gabby Tate said she believes it and intercepted Tate twice. Tate receivers read the defense,” filled in at quarterback and The Blue League’s top two was her team’s sheer will that said this game will be different. Tate said. “We want to take it to returned an interception for teams will meet again on led them to victory from a “We were coming off a strong them. Hopefully, we’ll be headed Howard’s sole touchdown, the Sunday when No. 1 Howard deficit. win against Badin, and might off to the Stadium.” Ducks found a way to win. takes on No. 5 Pangborn, with a “We just wanted to win so have been a little too confident,” Standing in their way will be Robinson said she believes that trip to Notre Dame Stadium on bad, we didn’t give up,” Tate Tate said. “Now we know what the defending-champion Ducks, the team was able to rally the line. said. “We fought until the last it takes. We’ll have to play the who remained perfect last week together due to strong dorm 
The Phoxes (4-1) advanced whistle.” best games of our lives.” by defeating No. 8 Welsh Family, identity. 
last week against No. 4 Farley, The Phoxes will need to fight Part of the Phoxes’ gameplan 7-6. 
rallying from an early 13-point again when they take on a tough for this second matchup will be The Ducks were forced to play see DUCKS/page 17 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Irish look to improve tournament resumes 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
As the end of the season approaches, a strong finish can solidify a squad’s seeding in both conference and NCAA play. Notre Dame has the chance to assert itself on both levels of play this weekend, as it takes on conference opponent Villanova Friday and No.13 Northern Iowa Sunday. 
The Irish (15-9, 8-3 Big East) travel to Villanova Friday to battle the Wildcats (19-6, 7-3). The match will be pivotal for the final Big East standings, as Notre Dame and Villanova sit in fourth and fifth, respectively. 
Although the Irish have already clinched a spot in the Big East Championships, the matchup against Villanova will be crucial in determining their seeding. 

Notre Dame’s preparation for the contest against the Wildcats has focused both on scouting the opponent and making inter­nal improvements. 
“We’ve definitely watched a lot of film,” Irish coach Debbie Brown said. “One of Villanova’s strengths is serving, and they have a high amount of aces per game, so we practiced serve return this week. Also, we looked to shore up some of the things on our side of the ball, such as ball control.” 
see BROWN/page 16 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Brey trying to figure team out 
By ERIC PRISTER 
Assciate Sports Editor 
Irish coach Mike Brey is still trying to understand the nui­sances of his 2010-11 squad, and Saturday’s second and final exhibition game against Catholic University will give him an opportunity to do just that. 
“[In the exhibition games], you’re just finally on the same bench, and finding some kind of rotation substitution-wise is probably the biggest thing, I think, for me and the guys to understand,” Brey said. “Everybody plays in practice, but when you get to a game, since the other night, the peck­ing order is kind of decided, at 
see BREY/page 16 







