the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Protesters deliver letter, ask for policy change 
Students and faculty hold a ‘No Home Under the Dome’ rally, NDSP denies group entrance to Main Building 
By JOHN TIERNEY 
News Writer 
Demonstrators attempted to deliver a letter addressed to University President Fr. John Jenkins demanding that sexual orientation be included in Notre Dame’s non-discrimination clause to Main Building Wednesday. 
The letter was accepted by an administrative assistant from 


See Also 
Jenkins’s office after student Full text of organizers of 

letter to
the “No Home Under the Jenkins Dome” demon-

page 8
stration and faculty partici­pants were denied access to the building by a Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) officer. 
The letter, part of an initiative to add sexual orientation to the University’s non-discrimination clause and formally support a gay-straight alliance on campus, asked that the University “move beyond words and into concrete actions which fully bring [lesbian, gay, bisexual, and ally students] into equality at Notre Dame.” 
The protest organized at the corner of Angela Blvd. and Notre Dame Ave. 
Over 200 participants walked up Notre Dame Ave. to Main 







Students gather for President’s address 

By LIZ O’DONNELL 
News Writer 
Students gathered in the LaFortune television lounge to watch President Barack Obama speak about the nation’s econo­my and healthcare reform dur­ing his first State of the Union address on Wednesday evening. 
Obama opened the speech by encouraging Congress to work together in the upcoming year to help return the nation to its for­mer state of prosperity. 
see OBAMA/page 6 


FOTO sponsors Haiti benefit concert 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 

Students packed the LaFortune Ballroom Wednesday night for the “Hearts 4 Haiti Benefit Concert.” The concert — spon­sored by Friends of the 
See Also 

Orphans (FOTO) — “FOTO raises raised funds 
funds for 
for Haiti relief 


Haiti”
following the Jan. 12 earth-page 6quake that devastated the nation’s capital of Port-au-Prince. 
The concert featured The Undertones, student-musician Pat McKillen and the Notre Dame Brass Band. The Undertones performed 1990s classics such as “Breakfast at Tiffany’s” and “The Lion Sleeps Tonight.” The songs were fol­lowed by both originals and covers by McKillen, which included a surprisingly success­ful acoustic rendition of Ke$ha’s “Tik Tok.” 
“I thought the concert was a great showing of the talents and generosity of Notre Dame students,” freshman Erin Wright said. 

FOTO, a student club founded by Notre Dame junior Michael 
see CONCERT/page 8 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER LaFortune computer cluster remodel page 3  Men’s basketball falls to Villanova page 24  ‘Book of Eli’ review page 12  Viewpoint page 10 
INSIDE COLUMN 

My middle ground 
I’ve been thinking a lot about stereotypes. 

At the beginning of the fall semes­ter, I taught my friend Tess about The Notre Dame football coaching staff and told her to sound impres­sive by talking about Frank Verducci and his approach to the offensive line (A lot of good that does her now). After that lesson, she called me a Laura Myers “Renaissance woman.” I’m not 

Assistant 
really sure what 

Sports Editor
that means. 

What I do know is that it’s hard to break out of any sort of feminine stereotype. On the morning of Thursday, Jan. 7, I was contemplat­ing that very issue as I drove to the bank. It seems you can either con­form to a stereotype, or be opposite to it. 
But where’s the middle ground? I imagined that a lot of women my age wonder the same thing as they try to figure out what to do with their lives. 
That night I sat down in front of our high-definition television, ate Buffalo wings and yelled at the screen as Nick Saban classlessly coached his way to a national cham­pionship. 
I don’t think there are any grounds to the idea that women don’t like wings or football or hating on Nick Saban, but I was still being an anti-stereotype at that moment. 
After the game, my mom and sister went to bed and my dad went to the basement to watch the Cavs. I went into the kitchen, popped in my “Fearless: Platinum” CD and began to clean so that I could bake cookies for the next-door neighbors, who had just had a baby boy. 
In other words, I was being a sub­urban housewife. 
Well, I opened the cabinet under the sink to get some Ajax, and out crawled a big spider. 
My first thought was to call my dad to come kill it for me. Then, I real­ized: 
“No. This is my middle ground!” 
So, I grabbed my dad’s shoe and took a whack at the spider. The little guy was crafty, though. He played dead, and once some time had passed he figured he was okay and began to rappel away. 
I got him in the end, though. I cele­brated by dancing to “Hey Stephen,” and then continued to wash the dish­es. 
Of course, I would now like to bring this together by using the acts of baking cookies and killing spiders as some overarching metaphor for femi­nism and life as a woman, but I don’t have the literary skills to pull that off. 
The point is that I found a middle ground in between being a stereotype and an anti-stereotype, and I’ll con­tinue to try to do so. 
Now if you’ll excuse me, I have 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Laura Meyers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT  S YOUR FAVOR TE SPOT ON CAMPUS? 





Colin Keeler  Lauren Aristorenas  Neil O’Dougherty  Ryan McCargar  
sophomore  sophomore  freshman  junior  
Standford  Lewis  Kennan  Keenan  
“Obviously, the  “LaFun. It has  “Kennan Hall ...  “Hesburgh  
greatest prison  everything you  Where dreams  International  
complex on  could ever  come true.”  Cafè. The  
campus,  need.”  pancakes are  
Stanford Hall.”  the bomb.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

TOM LA/The Observer Students walk across a snow-covered North Quad Wednesday. After several days of warm weather, students experienced the first significant snowfall of the semester. 
OFFBEAT 

3-year-old dials 911 after grandmother has seizure 
MAPLE SHADE, N.J. – A 3­year-old New Jersey boy was hailed as a hero after he called 911 on Friday after his grandmother had a seizure. Jaden Bolli was at grand­mother Patricia Bolli’s home in Maple Shade because his other grandmother, who was scheduled to watch him, was sick. When the 54-year-old grandma went to get out some puzzles, she had a seizure. The boy found a phone and dialed 911 for help as his mother taught him to do just days before. 
Burlington County 911 Coordinator Monica Gavio said the call was very unusu­al. Usually, when a child that age dials 911 she says, it’s an accident. 
But she said it shows that young children can be taught how to get help in an emer­gency. 
Patricia Bolli is in a hospi­tal, where doctors are trying to diagnose her 
Portland City Hall evacuated due to overcooked bagel 
PORTLAND, Ore. — An 
overdone bagel forced the evacuation of Portland’s City Hall. The Oregonian reported that City Hall emptied for about 20 minutes Wednesday morning while firefighters dealt with the burning bagel in the break room of Mayor Sam Adam’s office. There’s no immediate word on who burned the bagel in the toaster oven or what type of bagel it was. 
City commissioners were meeting at the time and joined those who took to the sidewalks. Adams apologized for the interruption after the evacuation. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Friday Saturday 

IN BRIEF 

A conference titled “Catalytic Material by Design” will begin at 8:15 a.m. today. Only Notre Dame stu­dents and faculty may attend. The conference will be held in McKenna Hall Auditorium. 
The Office for Civic and Social Engagement will sell carna­tions at 11 a.m. today in the Student Center Atrium at Saint Mary’s College. The pro­ceeds from the flower sales will benefit the sponsorship of a house for Rebuilding Together. 
Daily Mass will be held at 
11:30 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart today. 
“Otello” will be shown in Browning Cinema in the Debartolo Performing Arts Center at 7 p.m. today. For tickets, please call 574-631­2800. 
A Christian Unity Prayer Service will be held at 7:15 
p.m. today in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
A symposium titled “Thomas Aquinas Theology” will be held at 7 p.m. in the Student Center Lounge today. 
“Romeo and Juliet” will be presented by the Actors from the London Stage. The per­formance will begin at 7:30 
p.m. today in Washington Hall. Tickets are $20 for the general public, $18 for senior citizens and $12 for students. To purchase tickets, please call 574-631-2800. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Sunday Monday 

Atlanta 60 / 36 Boston 40 / 29 Chicago 22 / 12 Denver 38 / 18 Houston 69 / 58 Los Angeles 63 / 50 Minneapolis 10 / -1 New York 43 / 31 Philadelphia 48 / 30 Phoenix 64 /47 Seattle 51 / 39 St. Louis 30 / 23 Tampa 71 / 44 Washington 49 / 31 
Cluster renovation to finish 
By CAITLYN KALSCHEUR 
News Writer 
The computer cluster in LaFortune Student Center is undergoing renovations that will be completed Feb. 1, Brian Burchett, manager of Classroom and Cluster Services, said. 
Burchett said the cluster “needed a facelift.” 
“The finished project will be worth the wait,” Walker Anderson, Campus Technology chair for Student Senate, said. 
Burchett said the lab had become outdated. 
“The lab was made about 20 years ago for a time when most students did not have their own computers. So, the main pur­pose of the cluster was to get as many machines in an area as possible,” he said. 
Now with a majority of stu­dents owning their own laptops, the cluster’s purpose has shift­ed to an area for collaborative work, he said. 
Due to this shift in demand, Burchett said the setup of the lab did not effectively use the space in the room. 
Anderson and his committee decided to work with the Office of Information Technology (OIT) and Burchett to improve the cluster. 
While this plan has been in development for a couple of years, Anderson said the reno­vation was not funded until recently. 
“The University was trying to be fiscally conservative during the recession,” he said. 
Burchett said the main goal is “reclaiming wasted space.” 
Anderson said the layout, lighting and furniture will be the biggest changes to the space. Generally, the layout of the room will be altered with the removal of the service desk to create a more open setup for collaborative working. 
A group room will also be added with a projector. 
Anderson said the number of accessible machines will not change but the desks and furni­ture will. 
Customized furniture will “create a hybrid workspace for both individual and collabora-tive learning environment,” he said. 


Another element of the reno­vation will be brighter lighting and new carpet to transform the basement-like atmosphere to a more comfortable one. 
While the target date for re­open is Feb. 1, all projects may not be 100 percent complete by that time. 
Students cite the LaFortune computer cluster as a key con­venience on campus. 
Freshman Mike Stankiewicz said he hopes the project will “finish as quickly as possible.” 
Contact Caitlyn Kalscheur at ckalsche@nd.edu 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 
Four groups request funding for activities 
By MEGHAN PRICE 
News Writer 

Saint Mary’s Student Government Association (SGA) received four requests for funding at their meeting Wednesday night. Members from Saint Mary’s Affiliates of the American Chemical Society, the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Irish Dance Team, Psi Chi and Sisters of Nefertiti presented their applica­tions for different student activi­ties that will be taking place this semester. 
The members of Saint Mary’s Affiliates of the American Chemical Society, SMAACS, will be traveling to San Francisco for the convention of the American Chemical Society (ACS). Senior Jane Fleming presented the pro­posal along with three other stu­dents. 
“ACS is the largest scientific organization in the country” Fleming said, “The opportunity would provide great experience and networking possibilities for us.” 
Three juniors and three seniors will be attending the event and two of the seniors, including Alex Petlick, will be presenting their research at the convention. 
The Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Irish Dance Team plans to send ten girls to the All-Ireland Dance Competition in Killarney, Ireland. Six Saint Mary’s students and four Notre Dame Students have entered the competition, which will take place in February. 
SGA was not the first organiza­tion to be asked for funding for this trip. The group also received funding from the Notre Dame Irish Studies program and many alumni. 
Carissa Salvador, Saint Mary’s senior and president of Student Diversity Board (SDB), represent­ed Psi Chi, the International Honor Society in Psychology. Salvador plans to present her senior com­prehensive at the thirty-fourth annual woman’s studies confer­ence in Wisconsin. Salvador wrote her comprehensive on diversity. 
Salvador told the board she plans to bring back the teaching skills and methods taught at the conference. Salvador said she would be able to use this in her positions with Diverse Students’ Leadership Conference (DSLC) and the Council for Multicultural Affairs. 
Marissa Murphy, a senior and treasurer of the Sisters of Nefertiti, presented the club’s plan for an event. The event is to take place in honor of Black History Month. The club has invited speakers who will discuss the issues of body image and black history in tandem. 
Contact Meghan Price at mprice02@saintmarys.edu 


STUDENT SENATE 

Senators uphold ruling, Shane unable to run 

By SCOTT ENGLERT 
News Writer 
Senators upheld the election commission’s ruling that Cameron Shane, president of the Club Coordination Council, will be unable to run in the Student Body election at their meeting Wednesday. 
The controversy began last Friday when Shane submit­ted his election 
council, ruled Shane ineligible to run in the election. Shane understands Perez’s decision and holds no hard feelings. 
“I appreciate what Marcelo’s done,” Shane said. “He’s doing his job as he should.” 
Due to the elapsed time, Shane filed a petition to the election amount of time he was able to get 700 people behind his cam­paign.” 
Pangborn senator Susan Esquivel also supported Shane, commenting on the fluidity of the Constitution. 
“There has already been a precedent that we don’t follow the Constitution,” Esquivel said. 
Many senators, however, believed that Perez was correct 


petition at “Ignorance of a law is 12:45 p.m., 45 
not a defense to it. I 
minutes after 

would like to ask you to
the constitu­tional deadline. overturn the decision.” At that time, Marcelo Perez, 
Cameron Shane
vice-president 

president
of elections of the judicial Club Coordination Council 
even hearing this. We took an oath to uphold the Constitution,” Jordan said. 
Siegfried senator Zach Maxwell agreed. 
“You said this isn’t an issue of fairness … but is it fair to the other candidates?” Maxwell 
committee. As a result, he presented his case to the Student Senate. While admitting responsibility for his mistake, Shane believed he still deserved a chance to run in the election. 
“Ignorance of a law is not a defense to it,” Shane said. “I would like to ask you to over­turn the deci­sion. I accept the responsibil­ity … 45 min­

“We’re not negatively affecting the other candidates. We’re giving them another option. I recommend we impose gradual reductions in campaign funds. In a very short amount of time he was able to get 700 people behind this campaign.” 
Megan Carey senator Pasquerilla West 
in his initial rul­ing. Farley sena­tor Elise Jordan was adamant in upholding justice in the student body race. 
“We’re not just allowing him to run. We’re allowing him to compete against the other candi­dates. I’m sur­prised we’re 
asked while questioning Shane. “Don’t you think that taking the responsibility of the President of the Student Body, you would take the respon­sibility to turn in the petition? 
In the final vote, only eight senators voted to overturn Perez’s ruling. Seventeen sena­tors voted against. 
Carroll sena­tor Nick Ruof said he had the 
utes is a small price to pay … at the end of the day it’s the student body’s choice to decide who they want to elect.” 
Several senators agreed with Shane. 
“We’re not negatively affecting the other candidates,” Pasquerilla West senator Megan Carey said. “We’re giving them another option. I recommend we impose gradual reductions in campaign funds. In a very short utmost respect for Shane and the integrity he displayed in his pre­senting his case. However, this does not take from the fact that an overturn of the ruling is sim­ply unfair to the other candi­dates. 
“If he gets one vote, it’s nega­tively affecting someone else,” Ruof said. 
Contact Scott Englert at senglert@nd.edu 

Three tickets approved by council 
Candidate for student body president and vice president chosen 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 

Notre Dame ’s Judicial Council has approved three tickets to run for the posi­tion of student body presi­dent and vice president for the 2010-11 school year. 
The candidates are: soph­omores Catherine Soler and Andrew Bell; juniors Eras Noel and Julian Corona; and freshmen Peter Ledet and Gabe Alvare. Junior Cameron Shane also appealed to Student Senate to approve his petition, however Senate did not because the submission was late. 
The debates and election will take place during the month of February. 
tCatherine Soler and Andrew Bell 
Current sophomore class president Soler said she hopes to lead the student body in a “friendly and fun way.” 
Although the student body president has traditionally taken the role as a junior, Soler said she sees her age as an advantage. 
“We have a ton of juniors and seniors helping out in our campaign but we can also relate to the younger students,” she said. 
A focus of the campaign is textbook prices, and Soler said they will work to create a rental textbook system in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
The duo also wants to offer students discounts at local off -campus restau ­rants. 
“We want to support local merchants and give students an opportunity to hang out and save money,” she said. 
Soler said they are also campaigning to reform pep rallies, renovate the DeBartolo Hall lounge and start a block party for stu­dents and the community at Eddy Street Commons. 
“Andrew and I have the same vision of leadership,” she said. “It is in service, not for the position or the 
power.”  
tE r a s N o Corona T h e t w o  e l a n d j u n i o r s  J u d o  l i a n n o t  

come from a student gov­ernment background, but Noel said he believes this will revitalize the system. 
“Our campaign slogan is called ‘A New Perspective’ so we’re here to offer a dif­ferent point of view,” Noel said. “Because we haven’t been involved, we can offer a pure student view.” 
If elected, Noel said he wants to extend the reach of flex points so they can be used in Eddy Street Commons. 
“We’ve already talked to the owners of [Five Guys Burger and Fries] and they are interested,” he said. 
The ticket also is planning to pursue hot grab-and-go options and increase com­munication between student government and the student body. 
“We’re juniors so we’ve been a part of the Notre Dame community for awhile,” he said. “We know how to get the job done.” 
tPeter Ledet and Gabe Alvare 
The Zahm freshmen said most of their campaign points are “under construc­tion, ” but they have one finalized idea: milk choco­late statues on South Quad. 
The chocolate statues would be of Ledet and Alvare. 
“It would be just us in the middle of the Quad,” Ledet said. 
The ticket also wants to lower tuition costs for male students, but keep female tuition costs stable. 
“We’re just totally rad, so it’s like a sin not to vote for us,” Ledet said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

World & Nation 
Thursday, January 28, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

7 dead in apartment collapse 
LIEGE, Belgium — Rescue workers recovered seven bodies from the rubble of an apartment building that collapsed Wednesday after an apparent gas explo­sion. 
At least 21 people were injured, includ­ing two in critical condition. 
Interior Ministry spokeswoman Margaux Donckier announced the new death toll late Wednesday. The bodies were found well over half a day after the building exploded at 2 a.m. (0100 GMT, 8 p.m. EST Tuesday) and collapsed at dawn. 
Donckier said it was unclear whether more victims were buried under the twist­ed metal, wood and bricks from the centu­ry-old building in a poor neighborhood which was home to many students and immigrants. 
Man’s head found in town square 
MORELIA, Mexico — Mexican authori­ties say a man’s head and a threatening message referring to a drug cartel have been found on a town square. 
Prosecutors in central Michoacan state say the head was left on a tree-lined plaza in the town of Quiroga on Wednesday. The message found with the head mentioned La Familia, a cartel based in Michoacan. 
Investigators are performing DNA tests to determine whether the head and a headless body found 60 miles (100 kilo­meters) away belong to the same person. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

California bill requires report of crimes 
SACRAMENTO — Witnesses could be charged with a misdemeanor for failing to report violent attacks in California under legislation approved by the state Assembly. 
The bill by Democratic Assemblyman Pedro Nava of Santa Barbara follows the alleged gang rape of a 16-year-old girl outside a high school homecoming dance in Richmond, in the San Francisco Bay area, in October. Investigators believe as many as 10 people participated while another 20 or so watched without calling police. 
Current law requires witnesses to report violent crimes when the victim is younger than 14. Nava’s bill expands the require­ment to include victims of all ages. Violators would face up to six months in jail and a maximum fine of $1,500. 
Lawmakers approved the bill Wednesday on a 61-3 vote. It now goes to the Senate. 
Ohio woman sues son’s teachers 
CINCINNATI — A southwestern Ohio woman has filed a lawsuit accusing a sixth-grade teacher and a teacher’s aide of humili­ating her son for his long hair by tying it into ponytails, making him stand in front of class­rooms and encouraging students to mock him. 
Amanda Anoai, of Milford, filed the lawsuit Monday in U.S. District Court in Cincinnati on behalf of her 11-year-old son, referred to in the suit as J.A. The lawsuit seeks unspeci­fied damages and charges that school offi­cials violated the boy’s constitutional rights and intentionally inflicted emotional distress. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Ind. moves to ban texting while driving 
INDIANAPOLIS — Indiana would join a growing number of states that have banned texting while driving if legislation approved by a state House committee on Wednesday becomes law. 
The House Public Policy Committee voted unanimously for the bill by Democratic Rep. Joseph Pearson of Hartford City after several people told the panel that it would save lives. It would make transmitting text messages or e­mails while driving a Class C infraction with a possible fine of $500. 
The bill now moves to the full House. 
RacialthreatputsOhiocollegeonalert 
FBI investigates warning that two black students would be killed by Feb. 2 
Associated Press  
NELSONVILLE, Ohio —  
An attacker could find  
many places to hide at  
Hocking College, a campus  
carved into a forest in the  
Appalachian foothills. And  
with the threat of a mass  
killing looming over black  
students at the community  
college, Allen Edwards is  
steering clear of the trees.  
“I don’t feel too safe  
walking by the woods,”  
said Edwards, a 19-year­ 
old black student from  
Canton. “There’s woods  
everywhere. And somebody  
could be out in them, and I  
don’t know.”  
The FBI is investigating a  
threat scrawled last week  
on a bathroom wall warn­ 
ing that black students  
would be killed Feb. 2. It  
bore the trademarks of just  
another casual — though  
chilling — threat of vio­ 
lence on a college campus,  
but students here aren’t  
taking any chances.  
At least two black stu­ 
dents have withdrawn per­ 
manently from school out  
of fear for their safety, and  
another dozen have moved  
out of the dorm where the  
threat was found, officials AP  
at the two-year technical A campus safety officer patrols outside of a residence hall at Hocking College Wednesday in  
college said. Some students Nelsonville, Ohio, after finding a threat against black students.  
seem unperturbed, but oth­ 
ers say the threat has  temporary housing for stu­ there’s going to be ten- second floor, Amelinda  
brought simmering racial  dents who are too scared to  sion,” Sinnott said. “Young  Marengo, sat on her bed  
tensions to the surface.  stay in Hocking Heights,  people will be young peo­ and said that even though  
The school confirmed  the dorm where the threats  ple.”  the threat doesn’t include  
Tuesday that the threat  were found. And for those  Edwards lives on the sec- her, she is still afraid.  
said black students would  wary of venturing outside  ond floor of Hocking  Marengo, who is half  
be killed Feb. 2. At least  until after Feb. 2, teachers  Heights, a few doors down  Puerto Rican, said she and  
one subsequent note read- are making allowances for  from the two black stu- her black roommate  
ing “kill the n------” was  missed classwork.  dents who abruptly quit.  endured racist taunts in  
reported.  Since the first threat was  He’s contemplating leaving,  the cafeteria on several  
Hocking covers hundreds  discovered Friday, the  too, but hasn’t decided.  occasions last year. Her  
of densely treed acres in  school has installed more  Edwards said he has seen  roommate declined to be  
the Wayne National Forest  security cameras in dorms  racist comments written on  interviewed.  
about 60 miles southeast of  and beefed up foot patrols.  the same bathroom wall in  “We’d be sitting at a  
Columbus. The campus  A $5,000 reward is being  the past but didn’t let it  lunch table and some guys  
overwhelms Nelsonville, an  offered, and extra coun­ bother him. But two days  would be sitting across the  
economically depressed  selors are on hand.  after the first threat was  room, and they’d be  
rural town plagued with  Campus spokeswoman  found, he saw the second  screaming, like, ‘n----- 
heroin addiction and  Judy Sinnott said that she  on the bathroom wall and  lover’ across the table,”  
unemployment. About 400  had not heard previous  reported it to campus  Marengo said. “I had  
of the school’s 6,300 stu­ complaints of racist taunt- police.  enough of it one day and I  
dents are black, many of  ing, but that on a small  “I’m not sure how to  got up and I just started  
whom are foreign  campus, anything can hap- feel,” he said. “I’m just  yelling at them and telling  
exchange students from  pen.  going to see how every- them, like, ‘There is no  
the Caribbean.  “Any time that there are  thing plays out.”  reason for you to treat  
The college has provided  young people, you know,  Another resident of the  someone like that.’”  

HAITI 

Food aid falling short 2 weeks after quake 
restore control. been poor, while relief experts say this 
Associated Press 

Whether locked up in warehouses or disaster is presenting unprecedented 
PORT-AU-PRINCE — Street vendors stolen by thugs from people’s hands, food challenges. openly sell U.S.-donated rice by the cup-from the world’s aid agencies still isn’t Clutching a grocery bag filled only with ful from bags marked “not for resale.” At getting to enough hungry Haitians, leav-small packets of donated water, 25-year­a homeless camp, a young woman told of ing the strongest and fittest with the old Julia Jean-Francois shrugged in res-thieves who tried to sell her own food most. ignation Wednesday. back to her. “These people are just hungry,” U.N. “I lost all the rice, beans and oil that 
As she spoke, a gang of youths pushed spokesman Vincenzo Pugliese said of the were distributed last week. A group of into a line of people waiting for water thousands thronging food distribution young men shoved me and grabbed the Wednesday, shoving an elderly woman, points. He said U.N. peacekeepers would bags and ran away,” said the young who screamed and swung her bucket at reinforce security at the sites. woman, whose mother was killed in the their heads. Two weeks into the quake catastrophe, quake. 
Such scenes and worse are common food remains scarce for many of the An hour later, one of the men returned among crowds of Haitians lining up for neediest survivors despite the efforts of and offered to sell her the same food for rice, beans or ready-to-eat meals, forcing the United Nations, the U.S. military and the equivalent of $18. She refused, rely-
U.N. peacekeepers to fire pepper spray scores of international aid agencies. ing instead on a communal kitchen she and Haitian police to swing sticks to Haitian leaders say coordination has formed with some homeless neighbors. 
Lectureexamineshuman developmentanddignity 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
Authentic development must have a consistent focus on the whole human person, two Notre Dame professors said Wednesday evening. 
Maura Ryan, associate pro­fessor of theology, and Fr. Robert Dowd, assistant pro­fessor of political science, discussed the concept of human development as pre­sented in Pope Benedict XVI’s encyclical “Caritas in Veritate” in a lecture at the Coleman-Morse Lounge. 
Ryan focused on the defini­tion of development given by Pope Benedict and its rela­tionship to charity. 
“Pope Benedict makes the central claim that authentic social, political and economic development can only be brought about by love and truth,” she said. “The goal of development is to rescue peo­ple from endemic poverty.” 
While there has been absolute growth in the world, it is a growth burdened with many problems. She said these problems are rooted in the unregulated exploitation of earth’s resources, the use of technology for profit rather than human need and the global financial crisis. 
“He implies that only Christianity, more specifically Catholicism, can achieve the unity necessary for develop­ment, ” Ryan said. “Ultimately, Pope Benedict very much wants to resist the dichotomy between charitable acts and social reform.” 
Obama 
continued from page 1 
“We were sent here to serve our citizens, not our ambitions, so let’s show the American people we can do it together,” he said. 
Notre Dame College Democrats co-president Chris Rhodenbaugh said the president’s efforts to work as a unified country came through in his speech. 
“I think the country needed leadership in the speech and a path forward for next year and next decade and [President Obama] came through,” he said. 
The majority of the president’s address focused on the recovering economy, including the 10 percent unemployment rate and the bank bailout. 
Rhodenbaugh said the content of the president’s speech was appropriate given the current concerns of the nation. 
“The focus on the economy was right on with the national mood,” he said. “He was a realist on how we’re going to have to deal with these issues.” 
In the speech, Obama said he understands the bank bailout was a highly unpopular decision, but it was necessary. 
“The markets are now stabi­lized and we have recovered most of the money we spent on the banks, Obama said. 
Senior Henry Vasquez, also co-president of the Notre Dame College Democrats said the presi­dent’s message about the econo­my seemed clear. 
“We learned that the president is serious about balancing the budget and making responsible 
She said charity is often criticized for applying patch­es to system failures in devel­opment circles. According to the encyclical, however, char­ity animates relationships of rights and responsibilities rather than replacing them. 
“‘Caritas in Veritate’ sug­gests that authentic develop­ment is necessary for over­coming the moral and eco­nomic situation in the world today,” she said. 
Dowd focused on the indica­tions of a developing society, as well as the policy implica­tions of this development. 
“Generosity and the willing­ness to sacrifice, conscious dedication to the common good and a belief that all of creation is somehow sacred are all signs of development,” Dowd said. “Attitudes, beliefs, morals and values combined with social, eco­nomic and political institu­tions lead to integral human development.” 
He said external develop­ment is evidenced by respect for life, a market economy regulated by the state, eco­nomic equality and a demo­cratic political system. 
According to Dowd, devel­opment also results in policy changes, such as reduction of tariffs and limits to property rights. 
“The encyclical asserts that a commitment to the common good will ultimately bring about this development and the associated changes,” he said. 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 
decisions for the welfare of our nation,” Vasquez said. 
President Obama announced a goal for Congress was to double exports over the next five years as well as limit spending to decrease the country’s budget. 
Obama said he is willing to freeze government spending on issues outside of national security, Medicare, Medicaid and Social Security starting in 2011. 
Vasquez pointed to these goals as well as other aspects of the speech as a plan for guiding the country through the next year. 
“[President Obama] under­stands the American people and that is why he made the commit­ment that jobs are the most important thing in 2010,” he said. “At the end of the day, all these other considerations should reflect what the American people need.” 
Toward the end of the address, the president again urged Congress to work together, calling on Republicans to reach across the aisle to help pass legislation. 
Both Rhodenbaugh and Vasquez said this was an impor­tant component of his speech. 
“The president’s approach showed his commitment to bipar­tisanship though he was not afraid to confront the obstruction­ist behavior of his opponent,” Vasquez said. 
The address comes after last week’s victory by Republican Scott Brown over Democrat Martha Coakley in the Massachusetts Senate race. With that victory, the Democrats no longer hold a veto-proof majority in the Senate. 
Contact Liz O’Donnell at eodonne1@nd.edu 

FOTO raises funds for Haiti 
By ANN-MARIE WOODS 
News Writer 

In the wake of the Haiti earth­quake, the Notre Dame chapter of Friends of the Orphans (FOTO) is directing fundraising efforts to support the Haiti branch of the international orphanage organization, Nuestros Pequenos Hermanos (NPH). 
However, the newly estab­lished club’s dedicated efforts to address third-world poverty began long before the recent natural disaster in Haiti. 
Junior Michael Daly officially co-founded the organization last fall at Notre Dame with his with his sister, Saint Mary’s senior Tricia Daly. They wanted to increase awareness and action concerning poverty and provide opportunities for students to serve and learn at the NPH orphanage in Honduras. 
“On campus, I think it’s a great way to bring the love and the experiences from the orphanages to the students,” Michael Daly said. “We want to educate the student body and make them aware of what poverty is and the connection between poverty and Notre Dame.” 
With over 250 members, FOTO achieved success with its first organized event in the fall semester, Charity Denim, raising over $2,250 for the Holy Family Surgery Center in Honduras. 
The Holy Family Surgery Center, founded by Dalys’ par­ents Peter and Lulu Daly, is located on-site at the NPH Honduras orphanage. It offers the most up-to-date technology in the country in order to pro­vide same-day surgical proce­dures for underprivileged patients who otherwise could not afford surgery. ence.” 
Through FOTO, Notre Dame Daly explained FOTO will con-and Saint Mary’s students have tinue to focus fundraising efforts had the opportunity to partici-on rebuilding Haiti. However, pate in service learning trips to with Spring Break quickly the surgery approaching, center and the they will need to 
orphanage, “On campus, I think turn their atten­
interacting not it’s a great way to tion to raising only with the money for the 
bring the love and the
children of the service trip as 
orphanage, but experiences from the well. also assisting orphanages to the “We will keep the medical focusing on 
students” 
team with sur-rebuilding Haiti, geries and diag-but it is not going noses. Michael Daly to happen 
“This Spring co-president overnight,” Daly Break we will said. 
Friends of the Orphans 
be taking a group of about 15 Notre Dame pre-med stu­dents and Saint Mary’s nursing students to the surgery center,” Daly said. “The nursing stu­dents from Saint Mary’s provide hands-on help and are able to do their clinical practices. We sit in on surgeries and there are some minor surgeries we can assist on.” 
The team of about 50 medical professionals and students oper­ate every day, performing pri­marily orthopedic surgeries such as leg and wrist reconstructions. 
Yet, because of the immediate need for medical supplies in Haiti following the earthquake, the FOTO funds reserved for the surgery center have been sent to the earthquake-ravaged area where they are most needed at this time, Daly said. 
“There is no endowment or any type of funding for the sur­gery center,” Daly explained. “The main focus for our group is raising funds for the surgery center because students are deeply involved in it and because it is educating the pre­med and nursing students by giving them surgery experi-Aside from 
fundraising, Daly hopes to continue to educate students about third-world poverty through the lens of the NPH orphanage. 
“These safe and secure NPH homes are great places to intro­duce students to third-world poverty,” Daly said. “It’s so hard to seek Christ in these situations, but he is there. He is present, hidden behind all the pain.” 
Daly said seeing other people’s experiences is a positive experi­ence in itself. 
“I love seeing people’s experi­ences [at the orphanages] and how it totally transforms their outlook on life,” Daly said. “Their lifestyle is very different, more contemplative and thought provoking in service.” 
Contact Ann-Marie Woods at awoods4@nd.edu 



The Observer 

Business
Thursday, January 28, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

JetBlue bracing for reservation switch 
NEW YORK — Traveling on JetBlue this weekend could get messy. 
The airlines is transferring to a new reser­vation system. Passengers will be unable to check flight status, check in at jetblue.com or make changes to an existing itinerary online for 24 hours beginning at noon on Friday. They also won’t be able to book travel at all. 
In addition to those inconveniences, JetBlue is warnings of longer lines at airports and is urging passengers to arrive early. 
For JetBlue, the biggest concern is ensuring a smooth transition and avoiding any cus­tomer service nightmare. 
The airline says it is ready for potential delays and slip-ups after preparing two years for the switch. However, other airlines have attempted to switch reservation systems in recent years with less-than-stellar results, including widespread delays, baggage prob­lems and help center backups. 
To help prevent delays, JetBlue recommends travelers arrive at the airport early on Friday, Saturday and Sunday — two hours before a domestic flight and three hours for interna­tional trips. 
Two rental companies pull Toyotas 
NEW YORK — Two car rental companies said Wednesday they are pulling thousands of Toyotas from their fleets over faulty gas ped­als. 
The Pontiac Vibe, made by General Motors Co. in conjunction with Toyota, has also been recalled and will be removed from service by Enterprise Holdings, which operates the Alamo Rent A Car, Enterprise Rent-A-Car and National Car Rental chains. 
Toyota Motor Co. announced Tuesday that it was suspending sales and halting production of eight models following last week’s recall to repair sticking gas pedals that could make the cars and trucks accelerate without warning. 
Avis Budget Group Inc. said that it is imme­diately removing about 20,000 Toyotas from its rental fleets in the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico. 
Privately held Enterprise said it is also pulling the affected vehicles, which represent about 4 percent of its fleet, but is acting out of “an abundance of caution.” 
Apple introduces $499 iPad 
CEO Steve Jobs unveils company’s highly-anticipated tablet computer 
Associated Press 

SAN FRANCISCO — Apple CEO Steve Jobs unveiled the company’s much-anticipated iPad tablet computer Wednesday, calling it a new third category of mobile device that is nei­ther smart phone nor lap­top, but something in between. 
The iPad will start at $499, a price tag far below the $1,000 that some ana­lysts were expecting. But Apple must still persuade recession-weary con­sumers who already have other devices to open their wallets yet again. Apple plans to begin selling the iPad in two months. 
Jobs said the device would be useful for read­ing books, playing games or watching video, describ­ing it as “so much more intimate than a laptop and so much more capable than a smart phone.” 
The half-inch-thick iPad is larger than the compa­ny’s popular iPhone but similar in design. It weighs 
1.5 pounds and has a touch screen that is 9.7 inches diagonally. It comes with 16, 32 or 64 giga­bytes of flash memory storage, and has Wi-Fi and Bluetooth connectivity cized its lack of social fea-iPad a great multipurpose iPhone, the iPad can sync built in. tures, such as ways to mobile device — and the with Apple’s Macintosh 
Jobs said the device has share photos and home first tablet with a chance and Microsoft’s Windows a battery that lasts 10 video and recommend of success with consumers. computers. Jobs said the hours and can sit for a books. But Bajarin said Jobs’ iPad will also be better for month on standby without Sitting on stage in a cozy presentation only touched playing games and watch-needing a charge. leather chair, Jobs demon-the tip of what the iPad ing video than either a lap-
Raven Zachary, a con-strated how the iPad is could do for newspapers, top or the small screen of tributing analyst with a used for surfing the Web magazines and book pub-a smart phone. mobile research agency with Apple’s Safari brows-lishers, three industries Unlike a laptop, the iPad called The 451 Group, con-er. The CEO typed an e-struggling in the transition has an accelerometer, so sidered the iPad a laptop mail using an on-screen to the digital age. gamers can tilt the device replacement, especially keyboard and flipped A new newspaper reader to control what’s happen-because Apple is also sell-through photo albums by program from The New ing on the screen. And the ing a dock with a built-in flicking his finger across York Times and a game iPad is lighter and easier keyboard. the screen. from Electronic Arts Inc. to hold for long periods of 
But Forrester Research He also showed off a were also demonstrated time while watching a analyst James McQuivey new electronic book store during the event. The movie or TV show. said he does not believe and a book-reading inter-audience, which included The iPad comes with the iPad offered enough face that emulates the look many analysts and blog-software that includes a additional features for of a paper book. That puts gers, clapped and even calendar, maps, and video consumers to justify buy-the iPad in competition gave Jobs a standing ova-and music players. All ing yet another gadget, or with Amazon.com Inc.’s tion at points as the CEO seem to have been slightly to call it a new category of Kindle and e-book store. pointed out various fea-redesigned to take advan­device. Tim Bajarin of Creative tures. tage of the iPad’s bigger 
In an e-mail, he criti-Strategies Inc. called the Like iPods and the screen. 

Cuomo warns against web discount clubs 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK — New York’s attor­ney general warned Internet retail­ers Wednesday that they should stop funneling unsuspecting cus­tomers into “deceptive” Web dis­count clubs that have been accused of slamming people with hidden fees. 
Attorney General Andrew Cuomo said his office has sent investigative subpoenas to 22 prominent mer­chants, including Barnes & Noble, Priceline and Pizza Hut, that allowed the marketing companies Affinion, Vertrue and Webloyalty to piggyback on their Web sites. 
Those companies have been the subject of thousands of complaints in recent years from irate cus­tomers who say they were unwit­tingly enrolled in clubs while buy­ing things such as flowers and movie tickets. 
In many cases, the consumers clicked a box offering cash back on their purchase without noticing fine print warning that accepting the offer would enroll them in a club with a monthly fee. Many people learned the truth only when those fees turned up on their credit cards. 
“We want it stopped,” Cuomo said. “We believe it is a classic con­sumer fraud.” 
At least one retailer, the movie ticket seller Fandango, has already agreed to stop sharing customer billing information with the compa­nies, Cuomo announced. 
Fandango has also agreed to pay $400,000 in restitution and make better disclosures about any third-party offers on its Web site, the attorney general’s office said. 
Cuomo encouraged others to fol­low suit, saying that while the sign-up system for the discount clubs wasn’t “illegal per se,” it could be considered a “deceptive practice.” 
The companies getting subpoenas included Barnes & Noble, Orbitz, Buy.com, Ticketmaster, MovieTickets.com, FTD.com, Shutterfly, 1-800-Flowers.com, Avon, Budget, Staples, Priceline, GMAC Mortgage, Classmates.com, Travelocity, Vistaprint, Intelius, Hotwire, Expedia, Hotels.com, Columbia House, Pizza Hut and Gamestop/EB Games. 
Protest 
continued from page 1 
Building, where student organ­izers attempted to present the letter to Jenkins. After the stu­dents were denied entry to Main Building, about 40 faculty mem­bers requested entry to the building, but they were not admitted. 
The NDSP officer told the fac­ulty members that a representa­tive from the Office of the President would accept the peti­tion on Jenkins’ behalf. 
The letter said that Notre Dame has made “incredible progress” toward being inclu­sive of lesbian, gay, bisexual and ally students, but that these stu­dents are not treated with full equality. 
“We have no legal protection at Notre Dame as lesbian, gay, and bisexual persons,” the letter said. “We are asking for the same protection from discrimi­nation that every other minority group has on this campus.” 
Protestors hoped to “send a message to the University that gay students and their allies don’t feel the current practices of the University are serving their needs,” student organizer Patrick Bears said. 
Participants in the protest wore white T-shirts and covered their mouths with a strip of pur­ple tape. The tape represented “the silence of people on cam­pus about this issue,” according to Melanie LeMay, a student organizer of the protest. 
The protest’s organizers stressed that protecting lesbian, gay, and bisexual students is in accord with Catholic Social Teaching. 
The letter cites Paul’s first let­ter to the Corinthians, the Gospel of Matthew and the Catechism in support of “[pursu­ing] full justice for lesbian, gay, bisexual students and allies.” 
By not supporting a gay-straight alliance, the University makes lesbian, gay, and bisexu­al students “feel like they’re not part of the family,” according to organizer Meaghan Jennings. 
Jennings cited the presence of gay-straight alliances at other Catholic colleges and universi­ties as evidence that Notre Dame would not be breaking with the Church by supporting an alliance. 
Saint Mary’s College sanctions 


Concert 
continued from page 1 
Daly and his sister, Saint Mary’s senior Tricia Daly, supports nine orphanages in South America 

and the “The money will go basketball games Caribbean. The towards supplies for to Haiti-related 
club sends Notre charities and aid 
operating rooms and
Dame and Saint groups, includ­Mary’s pre-med the mobile clinics in ing the Notre and nursing stu-Dame Haiti 
the slums.” 
dents abroad to Program. work in these These pro-
Michael Daly
impoverished ceeds, when countries. The co-president combined with a Daly’s parents, a Friends of the Orphans Student-Athlete 
surgeon and nurse, are cur­rently in Haiti addressing the widespread medical emergen­cies. 
“I’ve been amazed at the gen­erosity of the student body,” Michael Daly said. “We’ve already raised over $2,000. I’ve been talking to my parents over satellite phone, and they’ve been saying how much they need medical supplies. The money will go towards supplies for operating rooms and the an official Gay-Straight Alliance, and includes sexual orientation in its own non-discrimination policy. 
“Based on our Catholic values, the College also commits to avoiding discrimination based on sexual or political orienta­tion,” according to the policy. 
The University issued a state­ment Wednesday afternoon defending its current non-dis­crimination policy and the “Spirit of Inclusion,” which rep­resents the University’s “com­mitment to an inclusive commu­nity.” 
According to the statement, Notre Dame’s “Spirit of Inclusion” “was adopted based on the conclusion that we are unwilling to leave civil courts the interpretation of University decisions that are made on the basis of Church teaching on sex­ual orientation and conduct.” 
The letter to Jenkins praised the “Spirit of Inclusion,” but said “there is still work to be done.” 
Jill Godmilow, a professor of Film, Television, and Theatre, and a member of the Notre Dame Progressive Faculty and Staff Association, said that adding sexual orientation to the non-discrimination clause is an “issue of equality.” 
She called homophobia among students “embarrassing,” and said that it makes it more diffi­cult for the University to attract top-tier faculty and graduate students. 
“I haven’t seen evidence of [homophobia] in faculty and staff,” Godmilow said. “It oper­ates on the level of the stu­dents.” 
Bears said that he does not know whether the University discriminates based on sexual orientation. 
“I would like to believe that it doesn’t, but that doesn’t mean that gay students and their allies don’t want” to change the non-discrimination policy, he said. 
The current policy “catego­rizes us as a different group,” he said. 
The organizers of the protest will now concentrate their efforts on recruiting people to sign the online petition support­ing adding sexual orientation to the non-discrimination clause, Bears said. 


Contact John Tierney at jtierne1@nd.edu 
mobile clinics in the slums.” 
The concert is just one of the many ways the Notre Dame community has reached out in support of Haiti. The University pledged the entrance and con­cession proceeds from the Jan. 23 and 24 men’s and women’s 
Advisory Council 
collection during the games and a donation of $10,000 from the ND Monogram Club, raised $250,000 for relief. 
“Raising this money for the poor in the slums will go a long way,” Daly said, addressing the audience between acts. “They say the darkest hour is right before the dawn. I believe we can bring that dawn to Haiti.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 

Colo. pot dispensaries welcome state regulation 
Associated Press 
DENVER — Colorado law­makers have an unlikely ally in their first attempt to curb the state’s booming medical marijuana industry: owners of the some of the shops that sell pot. 
Many dispensary owners say they’re on board with regula­tions if they give them uniform guidelines and avert a more severe crackdown like one approved this week in Los Angeles. Hundreds of Los Angeles pot shops face closure after the City Council voted Tuesday to cap the number of dispensaries in the city at 70. 
The Colorado proposal — which a legislative committee approved 6-1 Wednesday — would make it more difficult for recreational pot users to become legal medical marijua­na patients. It would bar doc­tors from working out of dis­pensaries, make it illegal for them to offer discounts to patients who agree to use a designated dispensary, and require follow-up doctor visits. 
Most of the 150 people at the hearing opposed the bill. Many of them worry it will cost them hundreds of dollars on top of the $90 annual fee they pay to register as a medical marijua­na user. 

William Chengelis said he can’t get his regular Veterans Administration doctors to sign off on medical marijuana and said buying pot illegally and paying the $100 fine would be cheaper than paying a private doctor for follow-up visits. 
“I cannot afford this bill,” Chengelis told lawmakers. 
In response, the committee backed allowing the state to waive the $90 fee for those who can’t afford it. Sponsor Sen. Chris Romer, D-Denver, said he would also see if there was a way to allow dispen­saries to reimburse veterans for doctor visits. 
While some advocates see any regulations as a violation of the medical marijuana law passed by voters in 2000, many dispensaries say they welcome the certainty that more regulation would pro­vide. 
“We’re saying we really can’t operate without any rules,” said Matt Brown, a medical marijuana patient and leader of a coalition of about 150 dis­pensaries and over 1,000 patients. 
Erik Santos, who operates a dispensary out of an office building in a trendy part of Denver’s downtown section, thinks it makes sense to limit large marijuana growers to 
Revised Blagojevich indictment expected 

Associated Press 
CHICAGO — Federal prose­cutors said Wednesday they expect a grand jury to pro­duce a fresh indictment against former Illinois Gov. Rod Blagojevich by the end of next week. But the new ver­sion is expected to look a lot like the current one. 
The new indictment is expected to be essentially a revision of the corruption charges the ousted former governor is facing, alleging the same misconduct. 
It is being prepared in case the U.S. Supreme Court strikes down a federal law Blagojevich is accused of vio­lating — depriving Illinois tax­payers of their right to his honest services. 
The high court is reviewing the honest services fraud law, which Justice Antonin Scalia once described as so vague a mayor might be charged with violating it if he used his polit­ical clout to get a good table at a restaurant. 

Blagojevich is scheduled to go on trial on June 3, charged along with his brother, Robert Blagojevich, with scheming to sell or trade President Barack Obama’s former U.S. Senate seat and campaign fundrais­ing misconduct. Both have pleaded not guilty. 
U.S. District Judge James B. Zagel asked prosecutors at a brief hearing Wednesday when they expected the new indictment. 
“I would expect that the grand jury would vote it by the end of next week,” Assistant U.S. Attorney Reid Schar said. 
Zagel said that if the indict­ment is approved on time, the arraignment would be Feb. 10. 
Defense attorneys said after the hearing that they didn’t think the new indictment would delay the trial much if at all. 
industrial areas and keep dis­pensaries out of residential areas. He wants lawmakers to pass laws now before even more dispensaries open up and prevent those with possi­ble criminal ties from giving the industry a bad name. 
Another bill still in the works could set up more regulations on dispensaries and suppliers. 
Colorado cities are also look­ing to lawmakers to pass regu­lations. Hundreds of dispen­saries have popped up across the state — in empty store­fronts, office buildings and even a historic movie theater. 
Some cities have passed moratoriums on pot shops as they figure out how to regulate them and wait for more guid­ance from the state. The Denver suburb of Centennial voted to ban dispensaries and close a shop that had already opened, but a court blocked that move. 
“Everyone is waiting to see what happens this (legislative) session,” said Mark Radtke, a lobbyist for the Colorado Municipal League. 
Colorado already has some rules in place for medical mar­ijuana dispensaries, including prohibiting dispensaries with­in 1,000 feet of schools, day cares and other dispensaries. Felons convicted within the 
AP 
Yamileth Bolanos, who runs Pure Life Alternative Wellness Center, selects a vial of marijuana for a client at her store in Los Angeles Jan. 26. 
last five years would be barred attract crime has been raised from running shops. by those concerned about the Dispensary owners would have growth of dispensaries. But to be licensed, pass a criminal police in Denver are discount-background check and pay a ing that. $2,000 application fee along Police say medical marijua­with $3,000 a year to renew na dispensaries were robbed licenses. or burglarized at a lower rate 
The rules are set to take than liquor stores or even effect March 1, although they banks last year. A memo could change depending on reported by The Denver Post what state lawmakers to on Wednesday says they were decide to do. hit at about the same rate as 
Fear that dispensaries would pharmacies. 
AG calls Internet clubs ‘deceptive’ 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK — New York’s attorney general warned Internet retailers Wednesday that they should stop funneling unsuspecting customers into “deceptive” Web discount clubs that have been accused of slamming people with hidden fees. 
Attorney General Andrew Cuomo said his office has sent investigative subpoenas to 22 prominent merchants, includ­ing Barnes & Noble, Priceline and Pizza Hut, that allowed the marketing companies Affinion, Vertrue and Webloyalty to pig­gyback on their Web sites. 
Those companies have been the subject of thousands of complaints in recent years from irate customers who say they 
“We have listened 
were unwittingly Expedia and 1­enrolled in clubs to consumers, 800­while buying Flowers .com 
lawmakers and
things such as said they sev­
regulators and have
flowers and ered ties with movie tickets. led the industry in the companies 
In many cases, 

evolving our last fall. 
the consumers Affinion,
practices.” 
clicked a box Vertrue and offering cash Webloyalty, all back on their Beth Kitchener based in purchase with-Norwalk, Conn., 
Webloyalty spokewoman 
out noticing fine print warning that accepting the offer would enroll them in a club with a monthly fee. Many people learned the truth only when those fees turned up on their credit cards. 
“We want it stopped,” Cuomo said. “We believe it is a classic consumer fraud.” 
At least one retailer, the movie ticket seller Fandango, has already agreed to stop sharing customer billing infor­mation with the companies, Cuomo announced. 
Fandango has also agreed to pay $400,000 in restitution and make better disclosures about any third-party offers on its Web site, the attorney general’s office said. 
Cuomo encouraged others to follow suit, saying that while the sign-up system for the dis­count clubs wasn’t “illegal per se,” it could be considered a “deceptive practice.” 
The companies getting sub­poenas included Barnes & Noble, Orbitz, Buy.com, Ticketmaster, 
MovieTickets.com, FTC.com, Shutterfly, 1-800-Flowers.com, Avon, Budget, Staples, Priceline, GMAC Mortgage,Classmates.com, Travelocity, Vistaprint, Intelius, Hotwire, Expedia, Hotels.com, Columbia House, Pizza Hut and Gamestop/EB Games. 
Some of those companies said they have already taken action. 
Vi staprint, 
Priceline, 
have been 
accused of improper conduct many times before. 
Webloyalty recently settled a class action lawsuit in Massachusetts. Vertrue and Affinion, which previously did business under different names, have both been sued by attorneys general in other states over their sales tactics. 
Each company says their practices are legal, but all have recently promised changes. 
After a U.S. Senate committee in November accused them of acting unethically, all three began requiring customers to re-enter all 16 digits of their credit card number before they are signed up as members. 
Previously, that billing infor­mation was automatically for­warded by retailers without the knowledge of customers. 
“We have listened to con­sumers, lawmakers and regula­tors and have led the industry in evolving our practices,” said Webloyalty spokeswoman Beth Kitchener. She said the compa­ny also introduced new lan­guage on its offering page to clarify that people will be billed for joining a club. 
Vertrue said in a statement that its marketing practices “are not only clear,” but also “provide consumers with access to significant and realiz­able benefits.” Affinion said that while it believed its mar­keting material “has always incorporated clear, prominent and unambiguous terms, we are constantly evaluating our offers to consumers.” 
A report issued by the Senate’s Commerce committee in November said the three companies have taken $1.4 bil­lion from customers in a little more than a decade. Retailers that gave the companies a spot on their Web sites got a sizable cut of that cash, often worth millions of dollars each. 
The report said managers at the companies appeared to be aware that customers were being deceived. One Webloyalty employee noted in an e-mail that “90 percent” of the people getting billed “don’t know any­thing about the membership.” 
Each company also has call centers staffed by workers whose primary job is to process membership cancellations. 
Some companies appear to be sticking with the clubs, despite complaints. Orbitz.com said in a statement that it had improved its sign-up process with Webloyalty in a way that will ensure consumers know they are consenting to mem­bership in a paid club. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 10 Thursday, January 28, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
Hypothetical situation 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Ashley Charnley Doug Farmer Alicia Smith Jared Jedick Sam Stryker John Helms 
Graphics Scene 
Jaclyn Espinoza Alex Kilpatrick 
Viewpoint 
Stephanie Vossler 

As a math major, I am often motivat­ed to consider hypothetical proposi­tions of airy-fairy abstraction, uncon­nected in any way with the reality of daily life, solely for my own amuse­ment. Naturally most of these 
Brooks Smith
questions involve mathematics in 
Mighty
some way — for 

Morphin Power 
instance, “What 
Columnist

would happen if two and two made five?” (The answer, of course, is that mathematics as we know it would implode.) 
However, on occasion I find my mind occupied by problems which do not have specifically mathematical origins, though they may be ripe for mathe­matical treatment. I present to you now one such meditation, a problem in information theory. Information theory deals with the diffusion of information across networks like the Internet. 
Without further ado, then, here is my totally hypothetical, utterly unreal sce­nario. What if, in the wake of a nation­al scandal over a tasteless and quite literally gay-bashing comic in our newspaper, the national news media were to hear about certain other facts that might reflect poorly on Notre Dame? 
For instance, it is a well-known fact within the Notre Dame community, at least those who care to pay attention to such things, that our non-discrimina­tion clause conspicuously leaves gay people out. It is equally well known that petitions to amend the clause have been rejected for over 15 years now, although a “Spirit of Inclusion” meas­ure was passed, saying in effect, “Notre Dame includes gay people in everything! Everything, that is, except our non-discrimination clause. Sorry 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“People are, if anything,more touchy about being thoughtsilly than they are aboutbeing thought unjust.” 
E.B. White 
U.S. author 
(not really).” 

However, I’m not sure that any of the various commentators who expressed so much outrage over the unfortunate comic are aware of Notre Dame’s long­standing refusal of such inclusion. It’s unclear to me what would happen if someone were to write one or more of them an e-mail, mentioning the two situations together and leaving them to connect the (not very far apart) dots. It does seem plausible that there might be a minor uproar which would reflect poorly on our university. It would be particularly unfortunate if it came now or in the next couple of months, a deli­cate time of year when high school seniors are carefully weighing their admissions options. 
I have not carried out this experi­ment myself, but I understand that Notre Dame is consistently ranked in the top 20 to 30 colleges in America. It would be fascinating if some research-minded blogger were to do some homework and try to find out how many of those other colleges exclude homosexuals from their clauses. It would be even more fascinating if they were to take a list of the Top 100 Colleges, from U.S. News and World Report, and see how far down the list they would have to go to find a similar exclusion. It’s possible, though again I have not checked, that we would be the only ones with such a dubious dis­tinction. 
This is all purely theoretical, of course. 
Nor is it my impression that the so-called liberal media would have much appreciation for the nuances and deli­cacies of Notre Dame’s relationship with the Catholic Church in America which have kept homosexuals out in the cold for so long, in the unlikely event of someone alerting the media or the “blogosphere” in the manner which I have just meticulously outlined. In fact it seems to me, though of course I can claim no expertise in the matter, that this is exactly the kind of story which could liven up a few slow news days. And then you have the bloggers. 

Remember that one guy, last year, who wanted to march on campus with pictures of aborted fetuses? Remember the people who hired the fetus plane to fly overhead, and the embryo trucks to drive around, because we were letting someone who refused to outlaw abor­tion speak at our school? That is the level of ire a school which refuses to outlaw gay-bashing is going to attract. 
Or might attract. It’s hard to say. 
But there certainly was a lot of ire, even over one little comic! Though it appeared in the official school newspa­per, the administration has been able to distance themselves from the issue. Nonetheless it strikes me that the University might have more difficulty distancing themselves from 15 years of refusals and evasions than they would from a single tasteless comic strip — no matter how accurately that comic depicted the anti-gay atmosphere at Notre Dame, and the “tools” who per­petuate it. 
Of course, the University could theo­retically stave off such a disaster through preemptive action — that is, by including gay people in the non-dis­crimination clause. But that, I fear, is an even more improbable hypothetical than the others which preceded it. Sigh. Well, back to squaring the circle. 
Brooks Smith is a junior math and English major at Notre Dame. He can be contacted at bsmith26@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“I am a kind of paranoiac in reverse. I suspect people ofplotting to make me happy.” 
J.D. Salinger
U.S. novelist 


The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Thursday, January 28, 2009 page 11 
Senior prom 
As Jesus passed by the Sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers casting their nets, and he said, “Come follow me.” And they left their nets and fol­lowed him. 
As a Senior 

Fr. Lou DelFra 
beginning my last semester of high school, a lone Faith Point reality defined my existence: I was in desperate need of a date to the prom. I might also mention that I had a massive crush on Susan McSorley. But she was so far out of my league that this infatuation had no bearing on my prom issue. I also rode the end of the bench on our basketball team, which hardly improved my chances for either the prom or Susan. 
Two weeks before prom, our hoops team was dismantling another team, which meant I got to play. Then, the Fates seemed to move. 
I ran onto the court, took the inbounds pass, and began to dribble upcourt, a path which pleasantly led me past Susan sitting in the first row. It didn’t seem to hurt to take just the swiftest glance to see if she was watch­ing my amazing athletic exploit of drib­bling a basketball with no defender within 30 feet of me. Unfortunately, before I could find her, I lost track of the ball and carried it. 
I began to pray. But before I got through “Please God, don’t …” the ref’s whistle had already blown — twice. Once for my carrying. And once for my sub to take my spot at point guard. 
Jesus walked farther and saw two other brothers, James and John, and again he said, “Come follow me.” And they too followed. 
The fantastic-but-true end to this story is that Susan seemed genuinely moved by my chivalrous ineptitude and talked to me for an hour after the game, during which I asked her to the prom (figuring the night couldn’t get any worse), and she accepted. That day was so unexpected, and worked out so perfectly, and my infatuation was so complete, that at the moment, I was sure this was the beginning of the rest of my life. 
That is, after all, how it happens in the Gospels. People are kind of mind­ing their own business, bumbling along with their daily, mistake-ridden lives. Until one day, completely unexpectedly, Jesus walks by, calls them out of their dreary existence, and their lives are changed forever. This is what is meant by “vocation,” right — Jesus calls one magical day, everything in our life crystallizes into a path of happiness and meaning, and we follow? 
Once again he went along the Sea, and saw Matthew sitting at the tax collector’s booth, and he said, “Follow me.” And Matthew got up and followed him. 
I suppose that if we were to ask Matthew or John or Simon Peter when their vocation — their life’s call — began, they would surely reference the 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Legally bound to Catholic teachings 
I am responding to a letter published on Jan. 24 entitled “Not our place to judge” by Jonathan Sarna. He had some interesting thoughts about judging homosexuals and a need to add sexual orientation to the University’s anti-discrimination clause that need to be addressed. 
The act of judging (and prejudging) is something that everyone does every day. It is something we must do. When I chose to go to this school it was because I judged it to have excellent academic and social integrity. I “form a judgment or opinion of” (dictionary.com) the University. I judge every building I walk into as one that will not collapse on me. I form an opinion of the water I drink, holding the opinion that it is not contaminated. 
In regards to morality (and more specifically homosexuality), Jonathan stated that “I don’t believe it is my place, nor Notre Dame’s, to be judge of morality.” To begin, someone must be a “moral” guiding light; otherwise there would be no set morals. As a Catholic institution, Notre Dame makes moral judgments based on the guiding light of the Catholic Church. The University should strive to uphold Catholic moral teaching in every aspect. Is stealing wrong? The Catholic Church judges it to be wrong. Therefore, Notre Dame does not tolerate theft because of Catholic doctrine in regards to stealing. 
Homosexuality is no different. The Church judges that the “[homosexual] inclination, which is objectively disordered, constitutes for most of them a trial. They must be accepted with respect, compassion, and sensitivity. Every sign of unjust discrimination in their regard should be avoided” (Catechism of the Catholic Church, Part 2, §2, Ch. 2, Article 6, #2358). The Catholic Church judges that homosexuality is objectively disordered but that those with such an inclination need to be treated with respect and dig­nity. While we believe homosexual intercourse is wrong, homosexuals deserve respect and compassion because they are humans made in God?s image. 
Notre Dame cannot, due to Catholic teaching on homosexuality, include sexual orientation into its non-discrimination clause. While having a homo­sexual inclination is not sinful in itself, including homosexuality in the clause “would be measured by civil courts that may interpret this change through the lens of the broader social milieu in which we live and jeopard­ize our ability to make decisions that we believe necessary to support Church teaching” (“The Spirit of Inclusion,” paragraph 12) at Notre Dame. Including sexual orientation conveys to the broader society complacency with and condoning of the homosexual lifestyle. Because the non-discrimi­nation clause is a legally binding agreement, the University cannot include sexual orientation due to Catholic morality. 
Tom Nield 

sophomore Morrissey Manor Jan. 26 
day when Jesus called them by the Sea of Galilee, and their lives started falling into place. The only problem is that, at this point, they have the unfair advantage of already having the rest of their lives laid out, corroborating that initial call. For those of us stuck in the near-beginning of life, we have no such advantage. Just a series of potential beginnings — interviews, dates, intern­ships, chance encounters, yearnings, hopes, ambitions — all of them beck­oning to be fulfilled. Which ones of them are the real beginnings of our vocation? 
Yes, as it turns out, Peter’s departure from his fishing boat to follow Jesus is the beginning of his vocation, but not merely because of the events of that day. Because he says “Yes” that day, Peter later finds himself in front of a crowd of 5,000 with a few loaves of bread. And Jesus asks him to help him feed the people. And, Peter, surely somewhat skeptically, says “Yes” again. And because of that “Yes,” Peter finds himself tossing in a boat on the Sea and, inebriated with the mira­cle of the multiplication of loaves, asks Jesus if he could walk on the water with him. Jesus — enamored with Peter’s brash, untamed faith — assents, and again Peter follows, though his doubts quickly get the bet­ter of him. Still, because of this “Yes,” Peter later finds himself being asked the question, “Who do you say that I am?” and, perhaps even to his own surprise, finds himself blurting (the first human to do so), “You are the Christ, the Son of God.” And because of this “Yes” he finds himself at the Transfiguration. And because of this “Yes” he finds himself in the courtyard outside Jesus’ trial. And because of this “No,” he finds himself fishing again on the Sea, the whole “vocation story” apparently grounded. Where, of course, Jesus faithfully meets Peter again and asks, “Do you love me?” And Peter, overwhelmed by forgive­ness, says “Yes” again. 
Which, in the end, makes Jesus’ first call to Peter by the Sea of Galilee “the beginning of his vocation story.” 
Who knows which of the events and encounters of this semester might be “the beginnings of my vocation?” Chances are, we won’t know while they are happening. But some of the events and relationships will, over time, res­onate more deeply within us than oth­ers, and invite us down a path to which we find ourselves saying “Yes” more times than not, as we recognize that our commitment to this particular per­son or path is slowly imbuing our lives with greater meaning and more authentic joy. By the faithfulness of our daily “Yes” to these invitations, and even more by the faithfulness of Jesus’ continued asking, the Way that Christ wishes us to follow will become ours. 
This week’s Faith Point was written by Fr. Lou DelFra. Fr. Lous is the director of bible studies and chaplain to the ACE program. He can be contacted at delfra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Encourage more students to study abroad 
I was shocked and disappointed when I read the article “Notre Dame cancels Innsbruck program” in last Thursday’s Observer (Jan. 21). The program has a spe­cial place in my heart because I would not exist without this program. My parents met on this program in the 1975-76 class and became great friends. Also, my twin brother is currently studying in Innsbruck as a member of, apparently, the last class for this beloved program. 
This program is a particular gem because in other German-speaking cities, it is dif­ficult to find German-speakers that do not speak English, but Innsbruck is full of people who patiently speak to Americans in German. When in this unintimidating atmosphere for an entire year, a student can really learn the language fluently. 
The University has ended a very rich program that not only gives students the opportunity to learn the German language, but also provides a rich cultural experi­ence. I spent Christmas in Austria this year to visit my brother and I glimpsed the community formed on this program. The Innsbruckers have become great friends, have immersed themselves in the Tyrolean culture, and have learned from their diverse friends in the international dorm. 
It seems to me that the failure of this program is the result of a lack of encourage­ment for year-long programs, which allow for increased fluency and cultural immer­sion. Unfortunately, Notre Dame is stuck in a system where students study abroad junior year for one semester, so students are not looking at year-long opportunities. The University needs to encourage students, even incoming freshmen, to think about studying abroad for a year so they get the experience more of a part-time citizen than a tourist. I think that if more students become inspired to immerse themselves in a foreign country, more will be interested in Innsbruck. It has courses for most majors and only requires two semesters of German, so is a great option for someone who just wants to learn a language and study in Europe. I think that if the University emphasizes year programs in general, interest in Innsbruck would revive. 
Helen Padden 
sophomore Welsh Family Hall Jan. 27 

The Observer 

Scene
page 12 Thursday, January 28, 2010 
By JORDAN GAMBLE 
Associate Scene Editor 
For the young-at-heart, mentally taxed and/or self-indulgent among us, young adult novels are a treasure trove of enjoyment. After a semester full of course packets, e-reserves and accounting textbooks, sometimes it’s nice to read below our grade level for a few hours. For some, it might be a return to Gary Paulson adventure novels, or maybe some quality time with a modern classic like “Holes” by Louis Sachar. 
For those of us with a penchant for light fantasy steeped in angsty romance, the young adult section of the public library is littered with book covers depicting beautiful teenagers in old­timey clothes looking mys­terious. Other publishers, trying to pique interest but not wanting to pay models or artists, just slap the title and author on a sparsely decorated cover, usually with something like an beautiful apple or an old picturesque tree taking up the background. 
“Shiver” is about a Minnesota girl named Grace who watches, with a devotion bordering on obsession, the wolves that live just beyond the safe boundaries of her back­yard. “Safe” probably isn’t the best word though, con­sidering those wolves dragged her from her tire swing when she was 10 and nearly killed her. But there’s one wolf that saved her, the one with yellow eyes, and she’s always felt drawn to him. 
No spoiler, guys, this one is easy to tell from the book jacket’s summary: The yellow-eyed wolf is really Sam, an 18-year-old boy who spends his sum­mers as a human and his winters as a wolf. The other ones in his pack are the same, going about their compromised human lives when the tempera­tures stay balmy but inevitably turning into wolves when the leaves start falling. 
Here’s the catch, though 
— eventually they com­pletely stop transforming back in the spring, and they just become wolves forever. Stiefvater tracks the countdown not through time but temperatures — every chapter starts with the degrees Fahrenheit. 
“Shiver” has been billed as “‘Twilight’ but with just the werewolves!” It’s an apt comparison and a good hook to draw in fans of Stephenie Meyer’s books and the blockbuster film adaptations. 
But the “Twilight” com­parisons start to grate when every other young adult book released these days is a supernatural romance involving a dull, ordinary human girl and a painfully beautiful, deeply tortured supernatural boy (often with yellow eyes, to boot). It’s as if every one of these authors drew up a Mad Libs based on Meyer’s books and just inserted random mythical beasts in place of ‘vampire.’ 
Thankfully, Stiefvater’s book resembles “Twilight” only in the briefest of book jacket summaries. This is because “Shiver” shows evidence of careful and controlled writing, much better than what’s on dis­play in Meyer’s creations. To be fair, this is a pretty standard assessment for about every other book ever written. 
Ostensibly, first-person narration is easier to spit out but harder to control. Some young adult authors, perhaps in an attempt to create relatable charac­ters, end up with a stream­of-consciousness novel with lots of reflection but no plot. But Stiefvater suc­ceeds in this department, especially refreshing since she has not one, but two characters doing first-per­son narration. The chap­ters roughly alternate between Sam and Grace’s perspectives, which lets on just enough but not too much about the characters and the plot. It all ties up neatly at the end, although Stiefvater has announced a sequel due in summer 2010 to be titled “Linger.” 
“Shiver” has a lyrical simplicity more akin to books like “The Giver” or possibly early Robin McKinley. Through careful yet evocative prose, Stiefvater creates mystery, her plot tightly bound even as there is room to linger on character moments. There are no histrionics here, but Grace and Sam are still wonderful charac­ters with flaws. Stiefvater is able to convey the dynamics of a true teen romance, albeit one with a supernatural conflict. 
The incessant suspense (Is it too cold now? What about now?) definitely makes “Shiver” a page-turner, although some­times the logistics of Stiefvater’s werewolves bend too conveniently to fit the needs of the plot. Nevertheless, this quick, entertaining read is well crafted. It’s a smart and “pretty” book that hauls in the emotional investment. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 


JACLYN ESPINOZA | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Thursday, January 28, 2010 page 13 
‘Romeo and Juliet’ @ Washington Hall, 7:30 p.m. 
The Actors from the London Stage present “Romeo and Juliet” this Thursday and Friday at Washington Hall. The troupe will portray the timeless story of two star-crossed lovers from feuding families in Verona but with an added challenge. Each production by the Actors is directed and per­formed by five individuals, all playing several major and minor roles in the play. For any unfamil­iar with the play, as well as those very familiar, this is an excellent 
opportunity 
to see world -class actors perform a staple of British theater and literature. Tickets are 

only 
$12 for students and can purchased online. 


The Antlers @ Legends, 10 p.m. 
The Antlers, set to perform at Legends on Friday night, have become a well -known name on the indie music scene within the last year or so. Originally the solo project of front man Peter Silberman, he decided to round out his sound with the addition of Michael Lerner on percussion and Darby Cicci on keyboards, among other things. The result was the formation of a mellow cool sound mixing acoustic gui­tar, smooth vocals and steady though subtle beats. They Antlers released their first full-length album as a band, “Hospice,” in 2009, and it quick­ly earned a place on several “Album of the Year” lists. 
‘End of Poverty?’ @ DPAC, 6:30 and
9:30 p.m. 

“End of Poverty?,” released in 2009, is a thought-provoking and challenging documentary by filmmaker Philippe Diaz which dares to ask the tough questions regarding the plague of poverty which sweeps our planet. It points out the history of exploitation and colonization, which has resulted in a perpetual cycle of abuse between the richest and poorest countries in our world. It begs for an answer to the apparently unbalanced utilization of the world’s resources and the never-ending struggle of developing countries just to feed their citizens. Especially rel­evant in the wake of the earthquake in Haiti, this documentary is certain to challenge the preconceived notions we all have regarding poverty. 
‘Touch of Evil’ @ DPAC, 3 p.m. 
Starring Charlton Heston and Orson Welles, “Touch of Evil” is the thrilling tale of a police officer (Heston) on his honeymoon, who is dragged into an investigation regarding a mysterious car explosion right along the Mexican/American border. The car, originating in Mexico, drove into the United States before exploding due to a car bomb. Heston’s character, Mike Vargas, is asked to help in the investigation but quickly comes to find that he and the local police chief (Welles) butt heads. “Touch of Evil” is both a cinematic masterpiece and an intriguing mys­tery that is sure to entertain. Tickets are $6 for the general public, $5 for staff, $4 for seniors and $3 for stu­dents. 
Contact Genna McCabe at gmmccabe@nd.edu 
JACLYN ESPINOZA | Observer Graphic 


By SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Writer 
As the opening credits of “The Book of Eli” ran across the screen, I thought about how I’d probably be sorry in another two hours that I had taken the time to see what would probably be a pre ­dictable, pretentious and alto­gether forgettable film. 
It just so happens that not only is “The Book of Eli” a watchable film, but dare I say, and yes I most certainly will, a good (albeit flawed) film. Both right below the thresh­old level on the shoot-’em­up side of things and intelligently measured in its effort not to be too preachy in pushing the word, or importance of Christianity on the human consciousness, this Denzel Washington ­helmed dystopic tale is an overall success due to its style, and add to that a “Sixth Sense”­esque game changer towards the film’s end. 

Washington plays Eli, a blade -wielding wanderer heading West in post-apoca­lyptic America, where the human condition ha gone to die and all that’s left are those who scavenge for valuables amongst the rubble and those who’ll kill 

them to take those valuables. Eli, how­ever, one of the only living survivors of an end-all nuclear war, has the only thing of real value left on Earth — the key to human hope and the only chance at a future; some­thing that he’s been carryi ng with him for 30 years. It’s his faith, blind as every ­one else except per­haps the 
film’s villain, Carnegie (Gary Oldman) perceive it to be, that guide him on an unnamed 
sion West to prove not only the key to his destiny but the key to every­
one else’s. Caught in the crosshairs between those hun­gry for power and those hun­gry for valuables that in this day and age we take for granted, Eli treks on with the only worthwhile purpose still left in man. Only death sur­rounds him, and on the road, really the only way out West, danger lurks in every which way. 
“The Book of Eli” is riddled with pitfalls — pitfalls that in large part the film manages to avoid. What seems like a piece about religion and a lone ranger, who goes about slashing everyone, meets the predictable bad guy with nothing interesting about him and a pretty girl who follows him blindly, is actually a dynamic tale that works, 
regardless of 
one’s reli ­gious convic­tions. Sure, film to many of the big-budget rules, and Mila Kunis 
is oddly cast (and this becomes increasingly 


more per ­plexing as the film closes), but good genre-bending story­telling that avoids being pre­dictable is definitely some­thing worthy of praise. 
And speaking of predictable … which this film is most cer­tainly not (at least towards the end, that is), the big ele­phant in the room here is the dramatic “Huh?! Oh … Actually, that makes complete sense …” twist positioned neatly right at the end of the film or, more appropriately, right where the film loses its built-up gusto and then runs a bit overlong. The film begs to be seen again because, like “The Sixth Sense,” it’s screaming out at you the entire time, but you’re blind to it until, like a sudden whirlwind, it hits you and makes you fall back into your seat, only to realize that it’s been staring at you the entire time. 
Go see it and chances are that you’ll want to see it again. Not because “The Book of Eli” is an exercise in film genius, or because Denzel Washington, as well measured as he is, is Oscar worthy, but because of the intrigue in knowing but not being able to recognize what’s there all along, and the curiosity that follows. Therein lies the real success to what should pleas­antly surprise quite a few filmgoers. 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb@nd.edu 


JACLYN ESPINOZA | Observer Graphic 
MLB 

Dawson to enter Hall of Fame as Expo, not Cub 
Boston and South Florida, my 
Associated Press 

home. But knowing that I’m 
CHICAGO — Andre Dawson on the Hall of Fame team is will be inducted into the Hall what’s most important, as it of Fame as a Montreal Expo, is the highest honor I could despite his preference to go imagine.” in as a Chicago Cub. The induction ceremony in 
The Hall announced its Cooperstown, N.Y., is July 25. decision Wednesday. Dawson Dawson played his first 11 told WMVP -AM in Chicago seasons with Montreal, bat-
that he thought  ti n g . 2 85 wi t h  
H a l l  o f f i c i a l s  225 home  runs  
w o u l d d i s c u s s the issue with h i m i n d e t a i l  “I’m dissapointed. I can proudly say that  a nd 8 3 8 R B I s. He was named a n A l l -S t a r  
before the deci­ because Chicago was  three times and  
sion H e  was made. s a i d h e  my preference.”  w o n N a t  i  o n  t h e a l  
w a n t e d c h a n c e  t o  a t e l l  Andre Dawson  League Rookie o f t h e Ye a r  
t h e m  “ w h a t  Hall of Fame inductee  Award in 1977.  
really catapult- H e  p l a y e d  s i x  
ed me to Hall of  s e a s o n s  w i t h  

Fame status and pretty much the Cubs, where he won the what my preference was but I 1987 NL MVP award after think their decision had been batting .287 with 49 home made. It was a little gut -runs and 137 RBIs. He also wrenching for me to hear played two years each for that but it’s their decision.” Boston and Florida before 
“I’m disappointed,” Dawson retiring in 1996. told the ESPN Radio affiliate. Dawson told WMVP he “I can proudly say that thought he “would have a lit-because tle bit more Chicago was input or I would 
my prefer -“You want the logo to carry or merit ence.” some sort of 
represent where this
Dawson’s weight” as to 
official state -guy made his great-whether he ment issued by est impact.” would go into the hall was the Hall as a more circum -Cub or Expo. 
Jeff Idelson
spect. “It was to my 
“I respect the Hall president understanding Hall of Fame’s they would decision to put make the deter-an Expos logo on my cap, and mination at the consent of I understand their responsi-sitting down and discussing it bility to make sure the logo with you prior to making the represents the greatest determination and I just impact in my career, ” thought it would carry a little Dawson said in Wednesday’s bit more weight than it did,” statement. “Cubs fans will he said. always be incredibly impor-Earlier this month, Hall tant in my heart, and I owe president Jeff Idelson said them so much for making my “you want the logo to repre­time in Chicago memorable, sent where this guy made his as did the fans in Montreal, greatest impact. He was impactful in Montreal. He was impactful in Chicago, and to a much lesser extent Boston and Florida, but it’s more of a case sitting down and collectively make a deci­sion.” 

The Hall noted that Dawson had 1,575 of his 2,774 hits as an Expo, won six of his eight Gold Glove awards in Montreal and led the Expos to their only postseason series win with a five-game victory over the Phillies in 1981. Idelson also said it’s the museum’s responsibility to “properly interpret the game’s history.” 
“Every Hall of Fame plaque lists all of the teams where an electee played or man­aged,” he said. “Fans of ‘The Hawk’ in every city in which he played should claim Andre as one of their own.” 
The Expos franchise, which played its first season in 1969, became the Washington Nationals before the 2005 season. Asked if he believed the hall wanted to preserve Expos history, Dawson said: “The hall clear­ly stated their major concern was the history of the game.” 
In 1999, there was a stir caused by reports that Tampa Bay would compensate the newly retired Wade Boggs if his Hall of Fame plaque bore a Devil Rays logo. 
Boggs denied it, but the hall two years later revoked the right of a player to choose the logo on the cap on his plaque. Boggs was inducted in 2005 and his plaque sports a Boston Red Sox logo. 
Dawson is the only player for 2010 to receive at least 75 percent of the vote to be inducted into the hall. He will be inducted along with man­ager Whitey Herzog and umpire Doug Harvey. Herzog’s plaque will feature a St. Louis Cardinals logo, and the Royals, Rangers and Angels will all be listed. 
AUSTRALIAN OPEN 

Davydenko falls in 4 sets, Federer advances to semifnals 
Associated Press  and the season-opening event at Doha earlier this month.  Federer’s former Grand Slam conquerors: No. 2-ranked  resume.” Before Federer, Ivan Lendl  signs of it. “So for  some  reason  I  was  
MELBOURNE, Australia  —  The Russian unloaded every- Rafael Nadal, No. 3-ranked  and  Rod  Laver  shared  the  just  a  bit worried I  was  not  
The only three  men  to beat  thing he had on Federer for a  Novak Djokovic, and No. 4- record at 10.  going to make it this time in the  
Roger Federer in the last 19  set and a half Wednesday and  ranked Juan Martin del Potro.  “It’s incredible looking back  semis. Now obviously that it’s  
majors were already out of the  was suddenly in uncharted ter­ “Winning that many games in  on how many years that is now,  safe again and I’ve been able to  
Australian Open, leaving the  ritory at a Grand Slam tourna­ a row against  a player that’s  you know, I’m able to deliver at  add one. It’s amazing.”  
Swiss star with a new threat to  ment.  been  on  fire like this, it’s  a  Grand Slam play, especially this  Besides his incredible run of  
face.  That’s when a bit of games- great sign,” Federer said.  year,” he said. “Looking at the  Grand Slam semifinals that  
Nikolay  Davydenko’s  13-manship and a lot of big-match  The win stretched his record  draw  with  (former  No.  1­ began at Wimbledon in 2004,  
match winning streak was the  experience helped  Federer  to  a  23rd consecutive Grand  ranked Lleyton) Hewitt in the  Federer boasts three Australian  
hottest on the tour and included  switch  gears  and  win  13  Slam semifinal appearance,  fourth round and Davydenko in  Open wins among his record 15  
two wins over Federer during  straight games en route to a 2­ something he rated as  “defi­ the quarters, who has been on  major titles and 50 wins  or  
title runs at the season-ending  6, 6-3, 6-0, 7-5 victory that sent  nitely one of the most incredi­ fire the last weeks and  even  more  at  three  of  the  four  
championships in November  Davydenko packing  to  join  ble  things  I  have  in  my  today, you know,  we  saw  big  biggest tournaments in tennis.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
If you or someone you care about Danny: That's cool baby, you know Luke: No, my father didn't fight in has been sexually assaulted, we how it is, rockin' and rollin' and what the Clone Wars. He was a naviga-
FOR RENT WANTED PERSONAL can help. For more information, visit not. tor on a spice freighter. Notre Dame's website: Sandy: Danny? Obi-Wan: That's what your uncle http.csap.nd.edu Danny: That's my name, don't wear told you. He didn't hold with your 
Off-Campus housing 2010-2011, UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do it out. father's ideals; he felt he should've Irish Crossings, Dublin Village 2,3,4 not go it alone. Notre Dame has Sandy: What's the matter with you? stayed here and not gotten bedrooms still available. Furnished many resources in place to assist Frank: Yea, I'm cool either way. I Danny: What's the matter with me, involved. and UnFurnished. Hurry only a few Babysitter needed for ND family, you. If you or someone you love just have to run it by Marissa. baby, what's the matter with you? Luke: You fought in the Clone left. Best living, safety, Value. CES Fri. a.m.'s 8:30-12:30 beg. 2/12; needs confidential support or assis-[Mitch and Beanie give him a weird Sandy: What happened to the Wars? Property Management, 574-968-$25/day Call 574-204-2642 tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at look] Danny Zuko I met at the beach? Obi-Wan: Yes. I was once a Jedi 0112 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For Frank: I'm messing with you guys. Danny: Well I do not know. Maybe knight, the same as your father. 
more information, visit ND's web Beanie: Not funny. Not funny. And there's two of us. Why don't you Luke: I wish I'd known him. gradrentals.viewwork.com site: now the baby is upset. take out a missing person's ad? http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Thursday, January 28, 2010 
page 15 

NCAA Division I AP Men’s Basketball Rankings 
team previous 
1 Kentucky 2 2 Kansas 3 3 Villanova 4 4 Syracuse 5 5 Michigan State 6 6 Texas 1 7 Georgetown 12 8 Duke 7 9 West Virginia 11 10 Purdue 13 11 Kansas State 10 12 BYU 14 13 Gonzaga 15 14 Tennessee 8 15 Temple 16 16 Wisconsin 18 17 Pittsburgh 9 18 Mississippi 22 19 Conneticut NR 20 Ohio State 21 21 Vanderbilt NR 22 Georgia Tech 19 23 New Mexico NR 24 Baylor 25 25 UAB NR 
NCAA Division I USA Today Men’s Basketball Rankings 
team previous 
1 Kentucky 2 2 Kansas 3 3 Villanova 4 4 Syracuse 5 5 Michigan State 7 6 Texas 1 7 Duke 6 8 Gonzaga 10 9 West Virginia 12 10 BYU 13 11 Georgetown 14 12 Purdue 15 13 Kansas State 9 14 Tennessee 8 15 Temple 17 16 Wisconsin 19 17 Pittsburgh 11 18 Butler 20 19 Conneticut 21 20 Mississippi 24 21 Clemson 16 22 Georgia Tech 18 23 Vanderbilt NR 24 Ohio State 25 25 UNI 22 


around the dial 
Men’s NCAABasketball 
Wisconsin at Purdue 7 p.m., ESPN 
NBABasketball 
Boston at Orlando 8p.m., TNT 
NHL 


Fleury says he had to wait to reveal sex abuse 
Associated Press 

TORONTO — Theo Fleury says he waited until he was strong enough mentally before going to police to file a sexual assault complaint against Graham James. 
The former NHL star revealed on his website two weeks ago that he had made the complaint against his former junior hockey coach. 
Winnipeg police are now investigating the allegations of sexual abuse contained in Fleury’s recent autobiog­raphy “Playing With Fire.” 
“That was just the process,” Fleury said Wednesday in his first pub­lic comments since issuing his statement. “I don’t do anything that’s not well thought-out, but I’m out of it now. I’ve filed my com­plaint and the police are doing what they have to do and I support them, they were excellent in the inter­view process.” 
No charges have been filed yet but Fleury said Winnipeg police keep him updated on the status of their investigation. He says he has no information on James’ current where­abouts. 
James has not responded publicly to Fleury’s allega­tions. 
The former coach pleaded guilty in 1997 to repeatedly sexually assaulting two teenage players between 1984 and 1995. He was 
IN BRIEF 

AP Source: Yankees, Winn reach $2 million deal 
NEW YORK — The New York Yankees and free agent outfielder Randy Winn agreed Wednesday to a $2 million, one-year contract, a per­son familiar with the negotiations told The Associated Press. 
The agreement, which all but elimi­nates any chance Johnny Damon has of returning to the World Series champions, is subject to a physical that is scheduled for Thursday. The person spoke on condition of anonymity because a final agreement was not in place. 
Winn hit .262 with two homers and 51 RBIs for the San Francisco Giants, but his on-base percentage was just .318. The 35-year-old was an All-Star in 2002, when he batted .298 with 14 homers and 75 RBIs for Tampa Bay. 
New York figures to start Curtis Granderson in center field and Nick Swisher in right, with Winn and Brett Gardner sharing time in left. 
arrested after Sheldon Kennedy came forward with allegations of abuse while playing for him in junior. 
Convicted of abusing Kennedy and one other unidentified player, James was convicted and sen­tenced to three-and-a-half years in jail. 
Fleury says he wasn’t pre­pared to come forward and testify in court then, but is now. 
“I’ve done the work,” he said. “I’m sure that there’s a lot of people out there that would have thought I might have gone off the deep end going through this process, having to re-dredge up all these things, but I can tell you I did the work before and that’s the reason why I didn’t jump on the Sheldon Kennedy band­wagon, because I just was­n’t ready and it wouldn’t have been effective.” 
Fleury says he’s working with a Canadian and American group on ways to improve education about sexual assault and create more resources for victims . 
Another reason he came forward was to help remove the stigma from victims. 
“The e-mails that I receive on a daily basis would blow your minds about people who have had similar experiences, don’t know where to start, have been to therapy for 10 years and have no relief,” said Fleury, 
Browns add new vice presi­dent, assistant coach 
CLEVELAND — Browns president Mike Holmgren returned to his NFL roots and hired Mark Schiefelbein away from Green Bay. Schiefelbein was named Cleveland’s new vice president of football operations. 
Schiefelbein spent 18 years with the Packers, where he first met Holmgren. Schiefelbein served most recently as Green Bay’s director of football administration/communi­cations. He will report to Bryan Wiedmeier, recently hired by Holmgren as Cleveland’s vice presi­dent of business operations. 
Schiefelbein began as a public rela­tions intern with Green Bay in 1989, three years before Holmgren took over as Packers coach. 
The Browns also hired Kent Johnston as their head strength and conditioning coach. Johnson had been out of football four years after he had spent two years at Alabama. 
New Hornung Award to go to most versatile player 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. — Starting this year, the Paul Hornung Award will honor the nation's most versatile col­lege football player. 
The Louisville Sports Commission announced Wednesday the creation of the new award, named after the 1956 Heisman Trophy winner from Notre Dame. 
Hornung played quarterback, defensive back and kicked for the Fighting Irish. During his Heisman-winning senior season he led Notre Dame in passing, rushing, scoring, kickoff returns, field goals and points after touchdowns. 
He went on to a Hall of Fame career as a running back with the Green Bay Packers. 
The winner will be picked by a selection committee of 12-16 former players and media members, includ­ing former New York Giants quarter­back Phil Simms. 
NFL 

Cardinals’Warner to make announcement Friday 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX — Arizona Cardinals quarterback Kurt Warner will hold a news confer­ence Friday to announce whether he will retire from the game, his agent said. 
Mark Bartelstein, in a tele­phone interview on Wednesday, said the announcement will be made at the Cardinals training facility in Tempe. Bartelstein declined to reveal Warner’s decision. 
The 38-year-old quarterback, who has led two franchises to the Super Bowl and one to the NFL title, has strongly consid­ered retirement in the wake of a season that saw him miss a game with a concussion. He led the Cardinals to an 11-7 season, including a wild playoff victory over Green Bay, one year after directing Arizona on a stunning run to the Super Bowl. 
The Cardinals were eliminat­ed 11 days ago in the divisional round by New Orleans. 
Warner has one year, worth about $11.5 million, on the two-year contract he signed before last season. But the day after Arizona was eliminated in 45­14 loss to the Saints, he said money would not be a signifi­cant factor in his decision. 
“I don’t want to come back just to get the paycheck or just because I’ve signed that con­tract if I can’t do everything that I would want to do or if I’m not willing to do everything that I’ve done in the past,” Warner said at the time. “That’s the bot­tom line.” 

He said that although he loves the games themselves, it’s the long hours of physical and men­tal preparation that wear on him. 
“The farther I’ve gotten into this, the more and more I demand of myself, that’s physi­cally, staying in shape because I’m older, that’s mentally in preparing and putting in work and time to try to help put this thing together the way that I want it put together,” Warner said. “All that stuff gets more and more a burden every year.” 
If Warner decides to step away, it will be the end of a remarkable story of rags to riches to rags then riches again. After toiling in the Arena Football League and NFL Europe, with a stint stocking grocery shelves, Warner was 28 when injuries to others made him the starting quarterback for the St. Louis Rams. 
What followed was a magical season that ended with the Rams NFL champions and Warner the league and Super Bowl MVP. He got the “Greatest Show on Turf” back to the Super Bowl two years later, where the Rams lost to New England. 
But after an injury-plagued 2002 season, he was sacked six times and suffered a concussion in a 2003 season-opening loss to the New York Giants. He never started for St. Louis again. 
He signed a free agent con­tract with the Giants for 2004, 
NFL 

Jaguars fre defensive line coach Monachino 
Associated Press 
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. — The Jacksonville Jaguars have fired defensive line coach Ted Monachino and replaced him with Joe Cullen. 
Monachino, who had been with the team the last four seasons, essentially became the scapegoat for a defense that ranked last in the NFL in sacks. The Jaguars finished with a franchise-low 14 sacks in 2009 and got picked apart by experienced quarterbacks. 
Cullen takes over a line that includes former first-round draft pick Derrick Harvey and second -rounder Quentin Groves, both of whom strug­gled in their first two seasons. 
Cullen coached at Idaho State last season after spend­ing the previous three years with the Detroit Lions. His NFL tenure was marred by two arrests in a week in 2006. 
Cullen was charged with indecent and obscene conduct after going through a fast-food restaurant’s drive ­through lane naked. He was charged with DUI a week later. He was suspended for a game and fined $20,000 by the league. 
Jaguars owner Wayne Weaver, who vowed last year to avoid players with ques­tionable character and off-field problems, backed the hiring after communicating with NFL commissioner Roger Goodell. 
Goodell said Cullen, a recovering alcoholic who has been sober for three and a half years, has done enough to deserve a second chance. 
“Joe paid a heavy price, and rightly so,” Goodell wrote in a letter to Weaver. “But to his credit, throughout this process he has always accept­ed responsibility and has will­ingly embraced the result as an opportunity to become a better person and role model. Not only has he fully complied with the obligations that were imposed on him, but he has undertaken several others on his own.” 
Cullen coached at Richmond, LSU, Memphis, Indiana, and Illinois before moving to the NFL. It was unclear whether Cullen will be in the league’s substance-abuse program. 
“Having had the benefit of several conversations with him as well as reports from a number of sources, I think he is an example of our primary objective under the policy — to provide assistance and sup­port that ultimately rebuild reputations and extend careers,” Goodell wrote. “I have little doubt that he will continue to progress and will represent the Jaguars in a positive manner.” 

but was replaced by rookie Eli Manning after nine games. Warner came to the Cardinals in 2005 and was an off-and-on starter before replacing the injured Matt Leinart part way through the 2007 season. 
Warner had to beat out Leinart the following spring, then led the Cardinals to the NFC West crown and playoff victories over Atlanta, Carolina and Philadelphia before the narrow loss to Pittsburgh in last year’s Super Bowl. 
Warner has 32,344 career passing yards in the regular season in 12 NFL seasons. His playoff statistics are even more impressive. 
He has compiled a 9-4 record, and his performance in the 51­45 overtime wild card victory over Green Bay was nearly per­fect. Warner had more touch­down passes — five — than incompletions — four, going 29 for 33 for 379 yards in the high­est-scoring game in NFL history. 
He and his wife Brenda have seven children. The couple operate the First Things First Christian charitable foundation. Last year, he was named the NFL’s Man of the Year for his off-the-field and onfield accom­plishments. 
Warner’s departure would leave Leinart the presumed replacement. The former Heisman Trophy winner has started 17 games for Arizona but only one in the last two years. He has been erratic in his few chances as Warner’s backup. 

“I do realize there’s a good er 10 days ago. “But I’m just chance that he’s going to retire going to prepare like I did this and my opportunity might final-offseason, probably work even ly come, so we’ll see,” Leinart harder, and we’ll see what hap-said as he cleaned out his lock-pens.” 

MLB 

Uecker case closed by court 
Associated Press 
MADISON, Wis. — A Wisconsin appeals court on Wednesday rejected a defama­tion lawsuit filed against the Milwaukee Brewers and the team’s radio announcer Bob Uecker. 
The District 2 Court of Appeals dismissed the lawsuit filed by Ann Ladd of Prospect Heights, Ill., who claims she has been unfairly portrayed as Uecker’s stalker. In so doing, the court adopted a new legal standard in Wisconsin that will limit lawsuits over allegedly defamatory communications. 
Uecker alleged in 2006 that Ladd had harassed and stalked him for years. He said she repeatedly sought his auto­graph, sent him unwanted gifts and appeared at ballparks to see him and even one hotel where he was staying for a road series. 
FILE -In this July 7, 2003 photo, Milwaukee Brewers’ radio announcer Bob Uecker works during a baseball game between the Brewers and the Pittsburgh Pirates at Miller Park in Milwaukee. A Wisconsin appeals court on Wednesday, Jan. 27, 2010, rejected a defamation lawsuit filed against the Brewers and Uecker. The lawsuit filed by Ann Ladd of Prospect Heights, Ill., claims she has been unfairly portrayed as Uecker’s stalker. Last month, a separate Wisconsin appeals court upheld the restraining order against Ladd. She argued that preventing her from attending Brewers games vio­lated her constitutional right to travel, but the court disagreed. 
Ladd was charged with felony stalking, but the case was dropped after a court commis­sioner granted a four-year restraining order requiring her to not contact him or attend games where he is working. 
Ladd sued in 2008 alleging she was defamed by Uecker’s legal affidavit spelling out the stalking allegations and its pub­lication on a Web site called The Smoking Gun, among other things. She has contended her behavior never rose to the level of criminal stalking, and the “stalker” label has damaged her reputation. 
The Brewers and Uecker argued the case must be dis­missed because Ladd waited past the two-year statute of lim­itations before she sued. She responded that, because the statements were still widely available on the Internet, the information is republished each time someone visits the site or others that contain them. 
The three-judge appeals court rejected her argument, saying Uecker and the Brewers have no control over information once its on the Internet. 
“We reject the notion that each ‘hit’ or viewing of the information should be consid­ered a new publication that retriggers the statute of limita­tions,” Judge Harry G. Snyder wrote for the panel, which did not consider the merits of Ladd’s claims. 
With the ruling, the court adopted the “single-publication rule” that says people can sue for defamation only over an original publication but not each time something is repub­lished. In other words, the statute of limitations starts run­ning when an article is pub­lished or a statement is made and not each time they are reprinted or read. 

The standard had been wide­ly adopted across the country to govern lawsuits over traditional media publications, but never in Wisconsin, said Madison attorney Robert Dreps, who often represents news media clients. The court not only adopted the standard Wednesday but said it extended to the Internet. 
“This is a wonderful decision. It’s very good for the press,” Dreps said. “It’s surprising it’s taken this long to get adopted here, but it’s of good value.” 
Peter Fox, executive director of the Wisconsin Newspaper Association, said allowing defamation lawsuits each time an article was reprinted on the Internet would have “wreaked havoc.” Because information spreads from site to site and is always available online, a statute of limitations never would have existed for defama­tion cases without the rule, he said. 
“It would have created a nightmare,” he said. “From our point of view, this is a good and timely recognition of modern technology and modern print­ing.” 
Ladd, who represented her­self, did not immediately return a phone message. Neither did the attorney representing Uecker and the Brewers. 
Last month, a separate Wisconsin appeals court upheld the restraining order against Ladd. She argued that prevent­ing her from attending Brewers games violated her constitution­al right to travel, but the court disagreed. 

NCAA BASKETBALL 

Oklahoma State mourns 10menwhodiedincrash 
STILLWATER, Okla. — In the crash occurred, the uni-the scrawled handwriting of a versity’s Library Carillon 9-year-old, Andrea Hancock tolled 10 times, as has been expressed what so many peo-done each year since the ple around Oklahoma State crash. Those at Gallagher-Iba University were thinking Arena observed a moment of Wednesday. silence before the game, and 
“I miss you daddy,” read the a few minutes later, the card attached to a bouquet of organizers of the annual a half-dozen pink roses. The “Remember The 10 Run” pre­flowers were set by the pic-sented the race’s proceeds of ture of her father, team publi-$20,000 to the university’s cist Will Hancock, at a memo-counseling services. rial to 10 men associated with During the presentation, Oklahoma State’s basketball Eddie Sutton, the Cowboys’ program who died in a plane coach at the time of the crash, crash nine appeared on years ago the court that while return-bears his ing from a “I do think it’s inspiring name and 
game in the way the [Oklahoma received a 
Colorado. loud ovation. 
State] family pulls
Wr e a t h s University and flowers together to support the officials, covered the including
familes of those we lost.” 
memorial David inside the Bosserman, 
Burns Hargis 
Gallagher -the vice presi-Iba Arena’s Oklahoma State President dent for 
lobby, as has been the case each Jan. 27 since the crash. One wreath had a ribbon that said “Forever Cowboys.” Another read simply “Nate,” in honor of player Nate Fleming. 
A lot has changed at Oklahoma State since the crash — there have been two school presidents and two basketball coaches — but the university has remained true to its pledge to remember the dead. Visitors, including cur­rent players and coaches, stopped by the memorial as the Cowboys prepared to play Texas A&M. 
“We like to consider our­selves a family, those of us with orange in our blood,” said Jim Perry, Hancock’s uncle, “and this is one of those significant family moments as far as we’re con­cerned.” 
After the Colorado game, on Jan. 27, 2001, the plane had taken off from Jefferson County Airport outside Boulder. It crashed a short time later about 40 miles east of Denver, in a snow-covered pasture near the town of Strasburg. 
Killed in the crash were Fleming and teammate Daniel Lawson, director of basketball 
operations Pat Noyes, Hancock, trainer Brian Luinstra, manager Jared Weiberg, play -by-play announcer Bill Teegins, radio engineer Kendall Durfey, and pilots Denver Mills and Bjorn Fahlstrom. 
The Cowboys’ game against Texas A&M will mark only the second time since the crash that they will have played on the anniversary date. As in recent years, the university was low-key in commemorat­ing the anniversary. 
At 6:37 p.m. CST, the time administra ­
tion, visited a 
memorial near the crash site in Colorado and laid a wreath there, as they have done each anniversary. They were joined by Colorado emergency workers who responded to the crash in 2001. 
Oklahoma State President Burns Hargis, an alumnus of the school, said this time of year remains difficult for the university. 
“But I do think it’s inspiring the way the (Oklahoma State) family pulls together to sup­port the families of those that we lost,” Hargis said. 
Oklahoma State coach Travis Ford was in his first season as Eastern Kentucky’s coach in 2001 when he heard of the crash. He said he has gotten to know family mem­bers of the victims — and he knows he’s now a caretaker of a key part of the basketball program’s legacy. 
“It was a devastating event,” he said. “They’re always going to be front and center stage here. They meant so much to so many people.” 
Inside Gallagher-Iba Arena, a banner listing the crash vic­tims, the crash date and the phrase “We Remember” hangs from the rafters. The Cowboys, coming off a huge win at then-No. 10 Kansas State, expected a huge crowd Wednesday — one that includ­ed Perry, who has season tick­ets. 
“I’ll look up there and see my nephew’s name on that banner and I’m going to feel those vibrations,” said Perry, who considers the arena “hal­lowed ground.” 
“To have Will’s memorial be in hallowed ground is some­thing I cannot put words to,” he said. 

NFL 

Donovan nets frst goal in Premier League win 
Associated Press 
LIVERPOOL, England — U.S. midfielder Landon Donovan scored his first Premier League goal, helping Everton defeat Sunderland 2-0 on Wednesday night. 
Donovan, on a 10-week loan from Major League Soccer’s Los Angeles Galaxy, scored in the 19th minute at Goodison Park with a left-footed shot off a headed pass from Tim Cahill. 
Cahill put Everton ahead with a sixth-minute header as the Toffees (7-7-8) climbed to ninth in the standings. 
Donovan has signed a new contract with the Galaxy through 2013 and is scheduled to rejoin the team for its March 27 league opener, but a MLS work stoppage could start next week and prompt Donovan to try to extend the loan. 
“The games he started were Arsenal and Manchester City, two of the better teams in the country, and I thought he played really well in those games,’’ Everton manager David Moyes said. “He has not had many chances in those games but tonight he got his first one and he was a bit unlucky not to get a second with it cleared off the line. If he can add us a goal or two, that will be great.’’ 

Also Wednesday, defending champion Manchester United overcame archrival Manchester City to reach the League Cup final, but was overtaken by Chelsea for the Premier League lead. 
Wayne Rooney’s 21st goal of the season in stoppage time prevented the Manchester derby going into extra time, and clinched a 3-1 victory at Old Trafford to send United through 4-3 on aggregate. 
In London, Frank Lampard scored twice as Chelsea cruised to a 3-0 victory over Birmingham to go a point ahead of United in the title race. 
Arsenal was a further point adrift in third after being held to 0-0 at seventh-place Villa, which moved four points clear of crosstown rival Birmingham. 
Blackburn continued its rise up the standings, with a 2-1 victory over Wigan putting the team seven points clear of the relegation zone in 11th. 

NFL 

Senior Bowl gives Alabama stars one more game to impress 
centers around his ability to I’m going to be where I want to the NCAA record for career “You’ve got a guy who can 
Associated Press 

effectively play more snaps. be.” punt return yards while starting play corner. He’ll be a great 
MOBILE, Ala. — Terrence The laid-back Cody, who NFL Network analyst Mike in the secondary. nickel guy for you, which is Cody is a mountainous nose patiently fields constant weight Mayock believes Cody is a first-It’s a double duty that both where he was fantastic for us tackle who weighs nearly twice questions from reporters and round talent for teams seeking Saban and Mayock say adds to and be the kind of return player as much as cornerback Javier NFL types, said he “really didn’t potential stars in the middle. Arenas’ draft value. he is; and probably be a guy Arenas. look like I was heavy when I “However, because he’s so big Arenas isn’t concerned about that you could use on offense a 
Despite their vastly different was out here running around” and there’s been these weight size questions or the pressure of little bit, which is something we statures, the two former in practice. He said he spent questions off the field, I’m not practicing in front of so many should have entertained more,” Alabama All-Americans both only a week at his pre-draft sure he’s going to sneak into the potential employers. Saban said. “He’s got a lot of are trying to prove they size up signing class after the Tide won first round,” Mayock said. “I just go hard and play,” he ability and can contribute to the as strong NFL prospects during the national championship The lingering questions for said. “This is what I do. Just go team in a lot of ways.” preparations for Saturday’s game in Pasadena, Calif., on NFL teams, he said: “How many out there and play like I always Arenas had two interceptions Senior Bowl. Jan. 7. snaps are you going to get out played.” in the BCS championship game 
The 6-foot-5 Cody weighed in “I’m going to work harder of Cody? And are they going to Saban says Arenas, a lightly and five on the season, along at a jiggly 370 pounds before a and start getting back on my be high-level snaps?” recruited player signed by with five sacks. crowd of NFL scouts, coaches diet and stuff, and just do what Conditioning isn’t an issue for Alabama largely because of his Cody thinks his more diminu­and executives on Monday I’ve gotta do,” Cody said. “I’m the chiseled Arenas, who bench return skills, could even hold tive teammate has proven size while Arenas measured in at 5-going to get my weight down, presses 425 pounds and fin-down another NFL role: Part-won’t be much of an obstacle on 8 and 195 pounds. and when I get to the combine ished his career 10 yards shy of time offensive player. the field. 
Crimson Tide coach Nick Saban got a big hug from Mount Cody after Monday’s initial practice, but his first question was the same that many had wondered leading up to the week: “Why don’t you just tell me what you weighed in at?” 
“I weighed in at 310,” Cody said, grinning. Once approach­ing 400 pounds in junior col­lege, Cody was listed at 354 during the season. He often came out of the game on third downs and passing situations in his two seasons with the Crimson Tide, making stamina a question mark. 
“Everybody here was asking how much Cody weighs,” Saban said. “I said, ‘Wait until he turns around and I can see him from the front, I’ll give you a pretty good guesstimate.’ I said 368, so I missed him by two pounds.” 
There was no questioning his ability to stop the run and keep two blockers occupied, his pri­mary tasks. Cody was a first-team AP All-American both years at Alabama. 
Both Cody and Arenas were two of the top players during the Tide’s national champi­onship run last season. 
For Cody, the weighty ques­tion coming from NFL teams 


NBA
NHL 

Nets avoid worst ever 
Red Wings fall to Wild 
Associated Press 
ST. PAUL, Minn. — Antti Miettinen got Minnesota going with a pair of first-period goals, and Detroit’s defense fell apart down the stretch in the Wild’s 5­2 victory over the Red Wings on Wednesday night. 
Josh Harding made the early scores hold up with 26 saves for Minnesota, which improved to 6-0-1 in its last seven home games. Detroit’s 4-3 shootout victory last week is the only blemish. 
Miettinen, who has 15 goals this season, had his third two-goal game in his last seven games. 
Pavel Datsyuk had two goals in the first period himself for the Red Wings, who have found themselves in a real fight for a playoff spot for the first time in years. 
They began the day in eighth place in the Western Conference, with the Wild now three points behind them. 
The Wild were up 3-2 less than 18 minutes into the game and still had that lead early in the third period when the Red Wings started a power play. 
Dan Cleary’s high-stick penal­ty ended the advantage after 44 seconds, and Eric Belanger deked Todd Bertuzzi on his way to feed Guillaume Latendresse for the 4-on-4 goal. 
Then with 13 seconds remain­ing on the Wild power play, Martin Havlat sneaked a bad-angle shot past goalie Chris Osgood to give the home team a three-score lead. Osgood is 1-6 in seven starts since Nov. 7, los­ing three straight while giving up 11 goals. Osgood made only 20 saves in this game. 

Jimmy Howard was in goal for Detroit the night before in Phoenix, when the Coyotes scored twice in the final 2 min­utes to tie it and then won in a shootout. 
The Red Wings, beset by injuries this season and looking to their younger players for pro­duction more than usual as they try to stay in the Western Conference playoff chase, have 


44-game start with win 
Associated Press 

EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. 
— Kris Humphries scored a career-high 25 points and the New Jersey Nets avoided the worst 44-game start in NBA history with a 103-87 victory over the Los Angeles Clippers on Wednesday night. 
The Nets (4-40) were tied with the 1993 -94 Dallas Mavericks (3 -40) for the NBA’s worst record after 43 games and all they had to do was lose another to secure another mark in this miser­able season that opened with a league-record 18 straight losses. 
It didn’t happen although the Nets managed to blow a 16-point first-half lead in the third quarter before winning for the first time in 2010. 
Brook Lopez added 19 points and nine rebounds and Keyon Dooling had 10 of 18 points in the fourth quarter for New Jersey, which snapped an 11-game losing streak, their third double-digit losing skid of the sea­son. 
Chris Kaman had 24 points and 11 rebounds for the Clippers. Craig Smith added 18 points and eight rebounds. 
Nets public address announcer Gary Sussman entertained the crowd of 9,220 with “Nets WIN! Nets WIN!” seconds after the final buzzer and the Izod Arena speakers blared “Celebrate.” 
And the Nets did it without their starting backcourt. Devin Harris (sprained wrist) and Courtney Lee (oral sur­gery) both sat out. 
The key for the Nets was coming back after the Clippers rallied to tie the game early in the third quar­ter at 53. 
Instead of folding, New Jersey countered with a 14-4 spurt that featured nine points by Humphries, who was 10 of 14 from the field in eclipsing his previous career best of 21 points. 
New Jersey led 71 -64 entering the fourth quarter and they never let the Clippers get closer than 73­70 on a 3-pointer by Rasual Butler (14 points). 
Lopez hit a long 2-point set shot and Humphries drove the lane for a dunk for a 77­70 lead. 
The margin was 79 -74 when Dooling sandwiched a drive and a jumper around a steal and two free throws by Jarvis Hayes for an 85-74 lead and Los Angeles never threatened. 
Humphries and Chris Quinn, who were acquired in trades last month, helped the Nets build a 16-point second quarter lead, combining for 14 points in a 20 -8 run. Humphries had eight and Quinn nailed two 3-pointers. 
The Clippers, who looked sluggish most of the first half, cut New Jersey’s lead to 51-41 at the half and then opened the third quarter with a 12-2 spurt, tying the game when Kaman hit the first of two free throws. 
The Nets then responded. 

had trouble finding a finishing touch. 
This time, the lapse came early and late. The Wild man­aged only six on-target shots in the first period, but three of them went in. 
Andrew Brunette set up Miettinen on the first two, feed­ing his linemate from the goal line for a power-play snap shot and then muscling the puck out from behind the net as he does best to set Miettinen up for a bad-angle try that slid past Osgood. 
Datsyuk answered for Detroit both times, in less than 2 min­utes following the first goal and in 27 seconds after the next one. 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Vandy upsets Vols 
Associated Press 

KNOXVILLE, Tenn. — Jermaine Beal scored 25 points and No. 21 Vanderbilt won its 10th straight game with an 85­76 victory over No. 14 Tennessee on Wednesday night. 
It was the first win for the Commodores (16-3, 5-0 Southeastern Conference) in Knoxville in five tries, and Tennessee’s first loss at home this season. Vandy is off to its best start in the SEC since 1966 and has grabbed control of the league’s Eastern Division. 
The teams traded the lead until a 3-pointer by Brad Tinsley with 8:42 left put Vanderbilt up 59-56, a lead it did not relin­quish. 
Beal hit a layup and two 3s in less than a minute to give Vanderbilt control with a 74-60 cushion with 4:58 remaining. 
J.P. Prince led Tennessee (15-4, 3-2) with 22 points, and Wayne Chism grabbed 16 rebounds. Scotty Hopson scored 14, while Bobby Maze added 12. 
The longtime state rivals were physical with each other, and the referees made sure to call every reach in or push they saw. 
The teams were tied at 39 when Vanderbilt’s Andre Walker tangled with Prince under the Volunteers’ basket. Walker was tagged with a foul for elbowing Prince, but both earned a techni­cal for the words they exchanged. 
Prince followed up his techni­cal with a 3-pointer and an alley­oop dunk off a pass from Maze with 15:31 left, but was called for a second technical for hang­ing on the rim too long. 
Though Prince was not ejected, the constant fouls hurt Tennessee more than Vanderbilt. Hopson and Kenny Hall, one of the Vols’ few post players, quick­ly picked up their third and fourth fouls after halftime and spent much of the second half on the bench. 
And even though both teams were called for 23 fouls, Vandy was more poised at the free throw line, making 21 of 29 attempts compared to Tennessee’s 14-of-24 shooting from the charity stripe. 
Vanderbilt shot 50.9 percent from the floor, the 11th time this season the Commodores have hit more than half of their shots. 
But it wasn’t until the second half that they found their touch. 
A.J. Ogilvy finished with 12 after scoring two points in the first half. Jeffery Taylor, John Jenkins and Tinsley each added 10 points. 
It was the first time both teams were in the Top 25 when they faced each other since 18th­ranked Vanderbilt upset No. 1 Tennessee 72-69 in Nashville on Feb. 26, 2008. 
NBA 

LakersroutPacers,Bynumnetsseasonhighinpoints 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Andrew Bynum played as though he was making a final statement ahead of Thursday’s All-Star reserves announcement. 
The center scored a season-high 27 points and grabbed 12 rebounds to help the Los Angeles Lakers beat the Indiana Pacers 118-96 on Wednesday night. 
Bynum finished second in the Western Conference voting at center with more than 980,000 votes. The fans voted Phoenix’s Amare Stoudemire in as the starter. 
Lakers forward Pau Gasol said Bynum should be on the team. The coaches choose the reserves. 
“There are a few guys on this team, Andrew is one of them, that has All-Star caliber potential,” Gasol said. “He would get my vote, absolutely. Right now, Andrew is definitely one of the top centers in the league.” 
Bynum scored 22 points in the first half. Kobe Bryant took over in the second half and finished with a game-high 29 points to go with nine rebounds and seven assists. 
The Pacers played in front of just their fourth sellout crowd of the year, and much of it chanted M-V-P for Bryant on several occa­sions. 
“Kobe’s been in the league so long and he’s accomplished so much as a player, when you reach that status as a player, you have a following,” Pacers forward Danny Granger said. “I think of it the same way Michael Jordan had, and LeBron will have.” 
Bryant recognized Indiana’s fans. 
“It just means the home team is struggling and there’s a lot of Lakers fans in the building,” he said. “It feels good to hear a response like that, and you defi­nitely appreciate it.” 
Bryant could have done more damage, but he was content to defer to Bynum. 
“He played extremely well, he was very aggressive,” Bryant said. “I really liked his activity. We made a conscious effort to pound the ball inside and he reacted very well.” 
Gasol had 21 points and 13 rebounds and Lamar Odom added 12 points and 14 rebounds for the Lakers, who outrebounded the Pacers 62-42 and set a season rebounding high. 
Roy Hibbert scored 21 points, Troy Murphy scored 18, Granger had 14 and Brandon Rush added 13 points and 11 rebounds for Indiana. 
The Pacers started the 6-foot-8 Granger at power forward against Gasol and the slender Murphy at center against the 7­foot, 285-pound Bynum. Lakers coach Phil Jackson was surprised by Indiana coach Jim O’Brien’s decision to go small. 
“I don’t know whether Jim was baiting us or not, but he started Murphy on him (Bynum),” Jackson said. “Drew is a plus-7­footer with probably 30 pounds, 40 pounds on him at least. It’s almost an impossible feat for them to cover Drew.” 
Murphy agreed. 
“We went with a small lineup against a big front line. It’s tough. You’re going to give up things inside, and that’s what hap­pened.” 
Odom hit a 3-pointer at the halftime buzzer to give the Lakers a 59-56 lead. Bynum shot 10 for 12 shooting before the break. 
“I got touches down low and then I went to work,” Bynum said. “It built on itself. I made the first couple shots and then when I got the ball I was very comfortable.” 
Derek Fisher connected on a 3­point play in the first minute of the second half. Bryant hit a 3­pointer, then Gasol dunked, was fouled and converted the three-point play to give the Lakers a 10­point lead. 
Another 3-pointer by Bryant was met with M-V-P chants and gave the Lakers a 76-65 edge. Los Angeles kept the pressure on and led 92-78 at the end of the quar­ter. 
The Pacers shot just 35 percent in the fourth quarter, and the Lakers led by at least nine points the entire period. 
“We played them pretty well in the first half, but we couldn’t get it going and let them beat us up on the boards in the second half,” Murphy said. 
The Lakers won at Washington on Tuesday, then found enough energy to close Wednesday’s game. 




NFL 

McNabb happy in Philly 
Associated Press 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. — Even wearing his familiar No. 5, Donovan McNabb looked a little different Wednesday in an NFC Pro Bowl jersey. 
“I look good in blue, don’t I?” he said. 
McNabb wasn’t dropping a hint about changing uni­forms. 
He said he was happy to hear Philadelphia coach Andy Reid wants him back in Eagles green next season. 
“I don’t want to be any­where else but Philly,” McNabb said following the first practice for Sunday’s Pro Bowl. “I don’t believe in start­ing somewhere and going somewhere else to finish your career. I believe in starting somewhere and finishing what you’ve started.” 
There was speculation about McNabb’s future after he struggled in consecutive losses to Dallas to end the season. 
The second defeat came in an NFC wild-card playoff game, and fans in Philly took losing the way they always do: badly. 
“When you’re playing in Philadelphia, obviously there’s up and there’s downs,” McNabb said. “Am I mad at them for responding that way? No. We were upset as well. In my 11 years, do I think we should have won a Super Bowl? Absolutely. Am I upset that we didn’t compete better in the last two games and put ourselves in a better position this year? Absolutely. That’s what drives me going into the offseason to try to correct that.” 
Reid said McNabb will be back for a 12th season in Philadelphia. 
The quarterback had the third-highest passer rating of his career in 2009 and made the Pro Bowl for the fifth time. 
He has one year left on his contract. 
McNabb has led the Eagles to five NFC championship games — going 1-4 — and 
NBA 

Arenas and Crittenton suspended for season 
since Stern indefinitely sus-
Associated Press 

pended him, removing his 
NEW YORK — Gilbert likeness from the Verizon Arenas and Javaris Crittenton Center. Crittenton has been were suspended without pay injured and wasn’t playing, for the remainder of the sea-anyway. son Wednesday by NBA com-The team said it supported missioner David Stern, who Stern’s ruling. said guns in the workplace “Their poor judgment has “will not be tolerated.” also violated the trust of our 
Stern delivered the punish-fans and stands in contrast to ment after meeting with everything Abe Pollin stood Arenas earlier Wednesday, for throughout his life,” the and with Crittenton a day Wizards said in a statement. before. Arenas already had “It is widely known that Mr. been suspended indefinitely Pollin took the extraordinary by Stern on Jan. 6. step of changing the team 
Both players admitted name from ‘Bullets’ to bringing a gun ‘Wizards’ in 
or guns into 1997 precisely the Washington to express his 
“I felt that I should do
Wizards’ lock-abhorrence of er room — a something to keep gun violence in violation of the Arenas from doing our communi­collective bar-ty. We hope 
even further damage
gaining agree-that this nega­ment — after a to himself and I told tive situation dispute stem-him that.” can produce ming from a something pos­card game on a itive by serving 
David Stern 
team flight. as a reminder Stern said the NBA commissioner that gun vio ­

one Super Bowl defeat. He said they’re close to being a title-caliber team. 
“I don’t think we’re far off at all,” he said. “It’s a couple of players away.” 
“My goal is to win a Super Bowl and bring it back to Philadelphia. We have given them some great years. We just haven’t been able to fin­ish. I think good things are to happen pretty soon.” 
players expressed remorse, but added, “never­theless, there is no justifica­tion for their conduct.” 
Asked during a conference call what message the penal­ties sent, Stern said: “We mean what we say when we say that guns are prohibited from being in our buildings and on team business. 
“You will be dealt with harshly because it ’s very potentially dangerous to our players, to the other players and to anyone else who might be involved.” 
Arenas, who is forfeiting about $147,200 per game, had already been suspended indefinitely earlier this month. Crittenton, who met with Stern on Tuesday, will lose about $13,435 per game from his $1.48 million salary. 
Arenas pleaded guilty Jan. 15 to a felony gun charge after a confrontation with Crittenton at the Verizon Center. Arenas, who is sched­uled to be sentenced March 26, is in the second season of a six-year, $111 million con­tract. 
He has asked the players’ association not to contest the penalty, while Crittenton’s plans are unclear. His agent, Mark Bartelstein, told The Associated Press that, “David Stern has done what he thinks is right for the league. We’re going to look at it and talk about it with Javaris and the players’ association.” 
The Wizards have 38 games left in a woeful season that was thrown into turmoil when news of the confrontation involving the guns broke on Christmas Eve. The team has distanced itself from Arenas lence is a seri­
ous issue.” 

Piper Hall, a spokeswoman for Arenas’ lawyer, wrote in an e-mail to The Associated Press that neither Arenas nor his lawyer, Ken Wainstein, would comment “at this time.” 
Arenas, a three-time All-Star and once the face of the Wizards’ franchise, will miss the final 50 games of the sea­son. Stern originally planned to follow his normal policy of waiting until the legal process was further along before act­ing, but handed down the ini­tial suspension after Arenas joked about the gun situation on his Twitter page, then was photographed before a game in Philadelphia pointing his index fingers, as if they were guns, at his teammates. 
“I felt that I should do something to keep Arenas from doing even further dam­age to himself and I told him that,” Stern said. “We also try to protect (players) from doing things that are foolish and damaging. I felt that Gilbert was in the process of doing that and it was incum­bent on me to stop it.” 
Stern said he would not advise the Wizards on how they should proceed if they sought to void the remainder of Arenas’ contract. Players’ association executive director Billy Hunter warned the union “will respond aggres­sively to any improper attempt by the team to impose additional penalties.” 
Stern said he and Hunter would meet in the coming weeks to perhaps build a stronger gun policy than the one in the collective bargain­ing agreement. 


Schedule 
continued from page 24 
Notre Dame. The team missed 11 free throws and turned the ball over 14 times. Against a deeper and more talented team, you can’t give them that kind of help and win. 
And thanks to those errors (and a poor defensive effort), Notre Dame is running out of chances to prove they belong back in the Big Dance. 
It was another competitive game, but a loss that drops the Irish to 4-4 in the Big East and costs them one of their few shots to truly bolster their NCAA Tournament résumé. 
Notre Dame’s non-conference strength of schedule ranked 342nd toughest out of 347 teams according to the latest Pomeroy rankings. Even with three games against top 10 teams in Big East play, the team’s overall strength of schedule rank is 199th. 
So when it comes down to Selection Sunday, when numbers like RPI and Pomeroy ratings become critical, it’s vital that Notre Dame has a big road win or two over top Big East oppo­nents. The opportunities to impress the tournament commit­tee simply aren’t there with the scheduling of recent years. 
This year is hardly the first that Irish coach Mike Brey’s squad has faced cupcakes before con­ference play. Each season, though, there’s been the same justification: the Big East is the one of the deepest, most talented and physical conferences in the nation, and the Irish can prove themselves come January. 
But take a look around the elite programs the Irish have fallen to. Syracuse faced North Carolina, Cal and Florida, all ranked pro­grams at the time. Connecticut also faced the Tar Heels, along with Texas, Duke and Kentucky. 
The Orange and Huskies have no fear when scheduling, and even if they disappoint in Big East play (as UConn has this year relative to their standards), they stand a far higher chance of returning to the NCAA Tournament. 
All in all, Notre Dame’s sched­uling has been abysmal and puts excess pressure on the team to 
half, and the people come off the bench and are produc-
McGraw 

tive as they were tonight, I continued from page 24 think that’s going to bode well for us down the line.” 
to its pre-Connecticut form. After watching her per­“I thought we were just a formance in the offseason, little sloppy today,” McGraw McGraw says Novosel’s con-
said. “We did-n’t have quite the intensity maybe that we needed to start the game, but overall offen­sively I thought we did some pretty good things. I thought Erica Williamson 

trib uti on Wednesday “I thought we were just a isn’t a sur­prise to 
little sloppy today. We 
those who 

didn’t have quite the 
see her in 

intensity maybe that we practice every day. 
needed to start the 
Expected to 

game.” 
be one of the four Muffet McGraw starting guards at 
Irish coach 
the begin ­ning of the have a strong Big East record every year. In a conference where even the teams 10 through 12 are dangerous, that’s a lot to ask. 

For the Irish to meet their goals of being a tournament team every year, they have to pull off season-defining wins in the Big East and on the road. A win over a top-ten team like West Virginia is a nice line for the resume, but Notre Dame’s rout of Louisville last year at home only earned them a higher seed in the NIT. 
If the Irish can’t start schedul­ing tougher opponents before the Big East season, their success will depend on upsetting the con­sistent frontrunners — Georgetown, Syracuse, UConn, Pittsburgh and Villanova. 
Until then, Notre Dame will end up in the same destination as last year during this season’s NCAA tournament — at home watching. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the anchor and not necessarily The Observer. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
sopho a
“Notre Dame is a very
game with a total of 6 points more guard very good in conference play, but fin-hasn’t missed good team. If I wanted team,” ished the game with 8 in 18 a beat, quiet-to watch a basketball Seymore minutes of action. Novosel ly putting said. “If I
team play, I would come
scored 12 to go along with 5 together a wanted to assists and 4 boards in 20 great season and watch them play.” watch a bas-minutes, as the two led an in limited ketball team Irish bench that outscored action. play, I would 
Phil Seymore 
the Friars 31-13. “I think I come and 
Providence coach 
their usual lines against a porous Friar defense. Diggins finished with 10 points and 4 assists after being held scoreless in the first 30 minutes, and senior guard Lindsay Schrader added a team-high 14 points and 9 rebounds. The Irish exposed the Friars’ biggest weakness, outscoring the Friars 52-26 in the paint. 
“Coach was talking at half­time about really getting the ball inside,” Schrader said. “I think everything opens up if we get a touch inside and then kick it out. We had sev­eral opportunities in the sec­ond half where we got threes or short jumpers because we got the ball inside.” 
The best analysis is an honest one, and Providence head coach Phil Seymore gave his take on this year’s 
Irish. 
“Notre 
Dame is 
watch them play, being on the opposite 

side, because I like the way they pass the ball. They all have a lot of intangibles with that team. They are really are one unit. They really play together.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
Reynolds 
continued from page 24 

minutes remaining in the game, but free throws from Reynolds, freshman guard Maalik Wayns and junior guard Corey Fisher, who hit four in 26 seconds, extended Villanova’s lead to 14 points before Reynolds went off. 
The Wildcats also made 10 3-pointers and shot 48 per­cent from field goal range. 
Wildcats guard Corey Fisher had 17 points and for­ward Antonio Pena had 14 points and 10 rebounds. Irish senior forward Luke Harangody scored 21 points and had 10 rebounds and junior forward Tyrone Nash had 12 points, his second straight game with double-digit scoring. 
Senior guard Ben Hansbrough fouled out early in the second half after scor­ing just seven points, forcing senior guard Jonathan Peoples to play increased minutes. Peoples scored eight points in the game. 
Villanova punched the jets late in the second half and scored seven points in 30 sec­onds, giving them a 77-62 lead with 6:15 remaining. 
The Irish did not score for almost three minutes at the end of the game. In that peri­od, the Wildcats scored 11 points, nine of them from Reynolds. 
It wasn’t always this way. The Irish hit shots in the first half, especially Nash early, and held leads over the Wildcats. Harangody scored 15 points in the first half and took over near the end, scor­ing 11 in the final 6:48 of the half. 
The Irish moved the ball well, especially around the perimeter to find open shoot­ers. 
But eventually the Wildcats half -court defense stifled Notre Dame. The players found themselves double ­teamed and had difficulty creating plays. 
A Fisher 3-point play gave Villanova a 57-49 lead with 
13:20 remaining after the Irish kept it close coming out of the break. 
Sophomore forward Taylor King’s 3-pointer gave Villanova a 66-56 lead with 
9:11 to play and Notre Dame never got closer than eight points after that. 
Four days after committing only two turnovers against DePaul, the Irish turned the ball over 14 times. They were 
out -rebounded 33 -25 and shot only 63 percent from the foul line. 
The Irish led 17 -16 with 
13:10 remaining in the first half, but Villanova took a 31­23 lead with 7:03 remaining. 
Harangody scored six points in two minutes near the end of the half and helped draw the Irish back within two with 3:13 left in the first half. 
Notre Dame will look to return to its winning ways Saturday when the team trav­els to face Rutgers. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
did a great job off the bench, she gave us a huge lift, and Natalie Novosel also. We just needed that punch, and they both provided it for us.” 
Williamson entered the season, Novosel was delegat­ed to the bench following the rapid development of fresh­man Skyler Diggins. But the ­
McGraw believes her squad’s depth will continue to be the difference as the Irish approach the postsea­son. 
“The bench is critical,” McGraw said. “We are wear­ing teams down in the sec­
ond half because of the depth that we have. So if we can rest people, good five minute chunks in the first come in with the same mentality every game, which is to every minute I get to make the most of it,” Novosel said. “Tonight I got confidence and I was able to keep being aggressive and attacking the basket, and it opened a lot of things up.” 
The starters turned in 
Freshman 
continued from page 24 

Markovic of Wisconsin in three sets. 
McGaffigan’s game relies on all-around athleticism, which stems from her playing four sports in high school. After winning the Iowa State tennis tournaments as a freshman and again as a sophomore, she gave up high school ten­nis to play golf for her junior and senior years. However, as last weekend has shown, the 
Belles 
continued from page 24 

at stealing the ball, grabbed 11 rebounds. 
“Her trademark has always been defense,” Henley said. 
Wade also added 5 steals to complement a stellar defen­sive game. 
Saint Mary’s played well two years off of high school tennis did not inhibit her ability to win games on the court. 
“McGaffigan has great speed and can play an all-around game,” Louderback said. “She has good ground strokes and is working on her net game.” 
McGaffigan and the rest of the team compete next against DePaul at Notre Dame’s Eck Tennis Pavillion on Saturday at 3 p.m. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

against No. 10 Calvin, but in the end the talent gap was too much to overcome. 
“We missed some opportuni­ties,” Henley said. “We chal­lenged the team for this game, and they responded very well.” 
The Belles will travel to face Alma at 3 p.m. Saturday. 
Contact Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  
26  27  28  29  30  31  32  
33  34  35  36  
37  38  39  40  
41  42  43  44  
45  46  47  
48  49  50  
51  52  53  54  55  56  57  
58  59  60  
61  62  63  
64  65  66  

CROSSWORD 
62Tough trip 63Opposite ofhindered 64Olympian ___ (classical works) 65Delilah portrayerLamarr 66Relish 
Down 
1 Bit of a dustup 2 Plains Indian 3 Red inside 4 Cavaliers'home 5 26-Down 
adjustment:Abbr. 6 Big name in late-night7 Any song on a 78 8 Sharp9 It may be part of a bank 10Like vicuñas 
11 It was conquered in1953 
12Novelist Turgenev13Cartoon chipmunk18Ship-to-ship call222008 World Series champs24Like tank tops26Tube 27“Is anybodylistening …?”28Impossible tochange29“___ oui!” 30Tylenolcompetitor31Flight support 

WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Puzzle by Nancy Salomon 
32Itsy-bitsy 46Judge's 53Midnight alarm announcement giver
34“The TonightShow” piece 55Pilgrimage to 
47Made without 
Mecca

milk or meat 56“___'Clock 35Onetime C&W 
channel 49Feeling ho-hum Jump” (Basie hit) 39Chaney of “The 
50Squat's opposite 

57Whirling water 
Wolf Man” 51River that ends 59Ultimate 
44“The Gang That 
in Tarragona 

Couldn't Shoot 60Scottish explorer Straight” novelist 52Put out of the Arctic 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&Tusers: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

Across 
1 Light in a bad way 6 Emmy-winningcharacter actor James 10In 14Novelist Calvino 15Spanish pot 16Astronomer's sighting 17In perpetuity 19Twin 20Sense 21Locks 22Edible tubes 23Concertedly 25Monopoly token 26How the obvious 
may bedisguised 29Fight nighthighlight 
33Green, to Goya 34Go “pfffft” 

36Dakota Indian 3735mm camera type 38Fate-tempting
motorcyclist 40Suffolk female 41One in the 
charge of un instituteur 42Sources of filets mignons 43“Ghosts” playwright 45Deluge 47With a saucystyle 48French possessive 
49Ho-hum 51Big pictures 53Belly laugh 

54Monopoly token 58Tony winner
Neuwirth 59Pan's place 61Has a blast 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D 



Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
The Observer 

Sports 
Thursday, January 28, 2010 page 24 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Reynolds rolls 
Villanova senior leads 


Weak schedule dooms WildcatsinwinoverND Irish tourney hopes 
It was another strong effort 
By BILL BRINK 
against an elite opponent, but 
Sports Writer 
another loss and opportunity down the drain for Notre Dame The Irish hung with the Wednesday. 
hottest team in the Big East In all four for 30 minutes, but it took Big East Scottie Reynolds just two losses this minutes to bury them. 
year, the Reynolds scored 17 points, Irish have nine of them in a late burst, been in it for to give the No. 3 Wildcats a the first 30 90-72 win over Notre Dame minutes. 
Wednesday. The Irish record They’ve 
Michael Bryan 
dropped to 15-6, 4-4 in Big shown they East play. The Wildcats (19­can play 1, 8-0) remain atop the Big with the best AssociateEast. 
of the best. Sports Editor
Reynolds sank 3s, layups But with and free throws in a 2:02 each passing loss, Notre Dame span to vault Villanova out in loses one of its very limited front by 23, but by that time chances to make a big leap the Wildcats led comfortably. 
towards its goals. 
Notre Dame trailed by one In the 90-72 loss to No. 3point at the half and was AP Villanova, small miscues doomed down five with less than 10 

Villanova senior Scottie Reynolds goes up for two points between Irish junior Tim Abromatis, left, and see REYNOLDS/page 22 senior Tory Jackson. Reynolds led Villanova to 90-72 victory over Notre Dame Wednesday night. see SCHEDULE/page 22 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

Heralded McGaffigan debuts with two impressive victories 
By MOLLY SAMMON Sports Writer  played at Big Te n s chools . U n s u r p r i s i n g l y, C h r i s s i e began playing at an early age.  tors that led her to choose to p l a y f o r N o t r e D a m e , a s opposed to the other upper- travel as a team in the fall part of the season, they did not this past fall because of a  end],” McGaffigan said. “I w a s a l s o a l i t t l e n e r v o u s bec ause it w as not too f ar  
“I enjoy tennis because it is  tier tennis schools who also  f e w  i n j u r i e s  t h a t  c o m p r o - f r o m  m y  h o m e t o w n  a n d  a  
In her Notre Dame debut,  a  sport that challenges you  sent her invitations to play on  mised their ability  to  com-bunch of my friends  came  to  
Chrissie McGaffigan topped  both physically and mentally,”  their teams.  pete.  watch from Iowa.”  
two Big Ten opponents, veri­ t h e f r e s h m a n sa i d. “ W h i le  “My teammates are not only  A s  o n e  o f  t h e  i n j u r e d ,  In her first weekend  com­ 
fying the promising ability  tennis is usually considered  talented tennis players, they  M c G a f f i g a n  w a s  u n a b l e  t o  peting, McGaffigan  won  both  
Irish coach Jay Louderback  an  individual sport, I espe­ are  amazing girls and  so  fun  start  competing when then  of her matches in the No. 3  
saw in her when he recruited  cially love competing in col- to  be around,” McG affigan  rest of the freshman tennis  singles position.  
the Iowa native.  l e g e  b e c a u s e  i t  i s  a  t e a m  s a i d .  “ I  f e e l  s o  l u c k y  a n d  players around the country  S h e  d e f e a t e d  Z u z i  
Te n n i s  f l o w s  t h r o u g h  sport.”  blessed to be able to attend  were able to.  Chmelarova of Iowa in  two  
McGaffigan’s DNA,  as  both  T h e  i m p o r t a n c e  t h a t  a n d  c o m p e t e  f o r  N o t r e  “I injured my hip this fall,  s e t s  a n d  t h e n  A l e k s a n d r a  
her parents played at Catholic  McGaffigan places  on  team  Dame.”  so I was super excited for our  
University and three sisters  bonding  was  one  of the fac- T h o u g h t h e g i r l s u s u a l l y  first match [this past week- see FRESHMAN/page 22  

SMC BASKETBALL 

Calvin tops Belles in MIAA contest 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
The Saint Mary’s basketball team fell to conference rival Calvin 67-57 Wednesday night. 
The Belles (10-8, 5-5 MIAA) started out the first few min­utes of the game strong, sur­prising the Knights into an early timeout. After the time­out, Calvin (17-2, MIAA 9-1) came out with new energy as they jumped to an eight-point lead and never looked back. 
The Belles came into the game facing a new challenge, as there was a big difference in height between the two teams. Calvin used their height to its advantage, con­trolling the area around the basket on both sides of the ball. 
The Knights were also able to execute their plan on taking Saint Mary’s senior Anna Kammrath out of the game early as she quickly accumu­lated two fouls early in the game. Without Kammrath in the game, the Belles lacked a vital component of the team. 
“Without Anna it really takes a toll on us,” Belles coach Jennifer Henley said. “We are not as deep at that position as in years past, so it puts some strain on other players.” 
With the absence of Kammrath for much of the first half, junior Liz Wade stepped up big to help out the Belles. Wade, already known for her tough defense and skill 
see BELLES/page 22 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Winning ways continue for ND 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
There’s nothing like an old-fashioned blowout to iron out the kinks and get a team back on the right track. Providence found itself on the wrong end of said blowout, as the Irish cruised to an 84-59 home victory to keep pace atop the Big East standings. 
Notre Dame (18-1, 5-1 Big East) played aggres­sive, if not perfectly clean basketball for 40 minutes, overcoming its first-half woes to lead the Friars 35­22 at the break. Providence (12 -8, 3-4) never posed a serious threat at any point Wednesday night, but Irish coach Muffet McGraw isn’t convinced the team is back 
see MCGRAW/page 22 







