the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Harry Potter mania hits Notre Dame 
Students dine on meal inspired by book and film series, anticipate next movie’s release 

By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
With the Sorting Hat and but­terbeer greeting students as they entered South Dining Hall and Hogwarts banners hanging from the ceiling, it seemed the only thing missing was Professor Snape leering at stu­dents from the Head Table. 
Wizard mania has officially swept Notre Dame, with South Dining Hall holding a “Harry Potter Dinner” in honor of the penultimate installment in the film franchise, “Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part One,” set to be released in the­aters Thursday at midnight. 

Sophomore Tommasina Domel said the additional décor in the dining hall only added to her belief of South Dining Hall resembling Hogwarts’ Great 



ND strives to save energy 
HPS graduate program adds new hybrid track 
By KATLYN SMITH 
News Writer 
Notre Dame’s History and Philosophy of Science (HPS) grad­uate program has added a new track in theology and science. 
The addition marks the first time HPS has offered a new track since its inception in 1990. 
HPS Director Don Howard said no other graduate program in the world produces Ph.D.s specializ­ing in theology and science within the context of a history and philos­ophy of science program. 
“We want the products of this program to be the leading thinkers internationally about issues of science and religion,” Howard said. 
For Howard, the track speaks to Notre Dame’s Catholic intellectual mission. 
“Some people like to think of Notre Dame as America’s leading Catholic research university,” Howard said. “Well, you put those two terms together — Catholic and research — that’s just anoth­er way of naming theology and science as a topic that we should be doing more to address here.” 
Howard said the HPS program was “frustrated” when trying to appoint faculty members in the area of theology and science ten years ago. 
“The idea to occurred to us that, well, if we’re having trouble mak­ing a really high-impact, stellar senior faculty appointment because the talent is so thin, maybe we are approaching this from the wrong direction,” Howard said. 
The program instead focused on 
see GRADUATE/page 4 

Hall. 
“I think its always looked like the Great Hall, but with the House signs and butterbeer, I feel like I am at Hogwarts,” she said. 
Freshman Jack Trunzo said he believes Harry Potter’s age throughout the books serves as a connection between current students and the series. 
“It is funny that the movies are ending now just as I get to college and my childhood is seemingly over,” he said. 
Domel also said the fact Harry’s age corresponds with the generation of current college students forges a connection that is particularly strong at the University of Notre Dame. 
“I feel like this is the perfect time to be in college because we all grew up with Harry,” she 
see POTTER/page 5 



Conference to focus on religion 

By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Editor 

In the early 20th century, the idea that religion was “on its way out” became predominant, according to Notre Dame Professor Patrick Mason. Today, Notre Dame is launching a research initiative to explore the relevance of world reli­gions in the modern world. 

The initia-
Mason 

tive, titled Contending Modernities, will use multi-disciplinary research to promote understanding of how religious and secular forces interact. Its first phase involves studying the interaction between Catholicism, Islam and secularism. 
Mason, the project’s associate director for research, said Notre Dame has always been a leader in the study of religion, specifi­cally Catholicism. Contending Modernities, which began 

see CONTEND/page 4 

By CAITLYN KALSCHEUR 
News Writer 
While students and resi­dence halls are competing to see who can save the most energy during the Office of Sustainability’s month-long Dorm Energy Competition, the University is doing its own part to conserve as well. 
Though the University itself is not doing a particular push for the month of November to save energy, there are various programs effective all year long, according to Rachel Novick, Education and Outreach Programs Manager for the Office of Sustainability. 
“The University recently started work on stage two of its energy conservation meas­ures,” Novick said. 
This $6.5 million investment 
see SUSTAIN/page 5 


LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Soler gives State of Student Union page 3  Delta Spirit to perform page 9  Men’s Basketball wins page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Thursday, November 18, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD PLAY ANY POSITION ON A QUIDDITCH TEAM, WHAT WOULD IT BE?

THE OBSERVER 








P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 

Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Amanda Gray Eric Prister John Cameron Megan Finneran Sara Felsenstein Sam Gans 
Graphics Scene 
Lisa Hoeynck Alex Kilpatrick 
Photo Viewpoint 
Suzanna Pratt Ren Brauweiler 
OFFBEAT 

Wis. man accused of shoot­ing TV over Palin dance 
MADISON, Wis. — A rural Wisconsin man apparently enraged by Bristol Palin’s “Dancing with the Stars” rou­tine blasted his television with a shotgun, leading to an all-night standoff with a SWAT team, investigators said. 
Steven Cowan, 67, was arrested Tuesday morning after officers coaxed him out of his house in Vermont, a farming community near Madison. Cowan, who is accused of threatening his wife with the gun after destroying the television, appeared in a Madison court­room Wednesday on a charge of second-degree reckless endangerment. His 
Emily Murphy  Sarah Thompson  Arianne Rodriguez  Katie Donovan  Nim Nannan  Liz Kraig  
freshman  freshman  junior  junior  junior  sophomore  
McCandless  McCandless  Regina  Le Mans  Le Mans  Le Mans  

“A seeker. They  “Chaser,  “I would  “Beater so I  “I wouldn’t be a  “Seeker,  
have the  because I can’t definitely be a  could use my  player — I’d be  because I could  
hardest job, but  throw a  beater.”  brute strength.  the announcer!”  go really fast  
they can win  bludger, but I’m  And so I could  on my Firebolt.”  
the game with  fast.”  practice with  
one catch.”  Fred and  

George.” 




Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

bail was set at $1,500. 

Cowan’s attorney at the hearing, Jonas Bednarek, declined to comment. 
Cowan’s wife, Janice Cowan, told investigators that her husband suffers from bipolar disorder and had threatened her life in the past. 
According to court docu­ments, Janice Cowan said her husband came home Monday from the bar and had a beer with dinner before they settled down to watch “Dancing with the Stars.” 
Ohio zoo acquires daughter of late longest snake 
COLUMBUS, Ohio — An Ohio zoo says a new resi­dent has big snakeskin shoes to fill. 
Weeks after announcing the death of the longest snake in captivity, the Columbus Zoo and Aquarium said Wednesday it has acquired the python’s smaller daughter. 
The 24-foot, 18-year-old snake named Fluffy died Oct. 27 of an apparent tumor. The zoo’s new snake is 12 years old, and 6 feet shorter than her mother. 
The zoo says in a state­ment that the daughter arrived Tuesday from the same private breeder who sold Fluffy to the zoo in 2007. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
Drop off a non-perishable food item at the Rock or Recsports Recreation Center and RecSports will waive your guest’s fee or you can get a coupon for a single fitness class (space permitting). Coupons are available at the front desk. Food barrels are available until today. 
Notre Dame Food Services will host an international cook­ing class in the Test Kitchen of North Dining Hall. The class willt take place today at 5 p.m. Students must preregister for this event in 204 LaFortune. The cost is $5 and space is limit­ed. 
ACE will be hosting an infor­mation night tonight at 7 p.m. in 101 Jordan Hall of Science. ACE staff members will be pres­ent to share their experiences of serving with ACE, to discuss this year’s application process, and to answer your questions. 
The launch of a major new research and education initia­tive, Contending Modernities: Catholic, Muslim, Secular will take place in New York today. The project, directed by R. Scott Appleby, professor of history and director of Notre Dame’s Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, involves dozens of Catholic, Muslim and secular scholars and public intellectuals from around the world. 
This Friday, Student Players will present a staged reading of Notre Dame graduate student’s Carina Finn’s original play, Thirteen Ways of Breaking, in the Lab Theater at Washington Hall. Admission is free but tick­eted, and seating is limited. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

thursday Tonight friday saturday Sunday monday 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 


43 34 HIGH 5246 5561
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

28 28 LOW 3236 4241 






Thursday, November 18, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Senior develops programs to promote positive self-image 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
News Writer 
Many students battle with self-image, and junior Laura Glaub is developing ways to help women not just on Saint Mary’s campus, but throughout the country, work through this issue. 
Glaub — who is also Student Government Student Services Commissioner at the College and the Resident Hall Association (RHA) National Communications Coordinator — went to a confer­ence at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign held by the Great Lakes Affiliate of College and University Residence Halls (GLACURH) and three of her five ideas were presented there. 
The programs she developed included “We We’re Born This Way,” “Wam Bam Mammogram” and “Please Stop Talking about Your Diet to Me.” The programs are activities that can be done during events such as “Love Your Body Week” to help improve self-image. 
Fifty programs were presented, and “Please Stop Talking about Your Diet to Me” was in the top ten and is now headed to a national conference, Glaub said. 
“‘Please Stop Talking about Your Diet to Me’ is showing other schools how they can put on ‘Love Your Body Week’ because I think it is really important in today’s media for any gender to feel com­fortable about their body in lots of different ways,” she said. 
The program starts with each person drawing themselves on a large piece of white paper, Glaub said. Then, another person will trace them on the paper and show the difference between their perception of themselves and what they actually look like. 
After that activity is finished, the group looks at different adver­tisements from magazines and then discusses which are negative and which are positive, she said. 
According to Glaub, much of her information came from the National Organization of Women website, which includes an expla­nation of how a student can make an impact on their campus in 60 seconds. 
“After [the group goes] through this everyone has to sign a heart pledge about what they love about their body and tape it on the giant sign that says, ‘I love my body,’” Glaub said. 
In addition to the success of the program, Glaub will be helping to put on the first “I Love My Body Week” at Saint Mary’s from Feb. 21 to 26. 
“[We] gave out giant packets [at the conference] to explain my rea­soning of why I am putting on 
STUDENT SENATE 



Group reviews Council rules 

By MEGAN DOYLE with the passing of Declan,” News Writer Soler said. “In all of this I am proud of the ability — and not Student body president just from [student body vice Catherine Soler delivered her president] Andrew [Bell], [stu-State of the Student Union dent government chief-of ­address to Student Senate staff] Nick [Ruof] and me — Wednesday before its mem-but all of our student leaders bers passed a resolution to who stepped up in these situa­revise the Off-tions, no ques-C a m p u s tions asked, and Council. fulfilled our “It is very “It is very responsibilities encouraging to encouraging to see to represent the see that we students and 
that we have
have accom-live out being plished many of accomplished many someone from the goals that of the goals we set Notre Dame.” we set out to,” Student gov ­
out to.” 
Soler said. “We ernment looks have introduced at the future Student for Catherine Soler optimistically as South Bend dis-Student Body President it will continue 
count program 
— the first of its kind in our community; the Rent-A-Text Program is up and running; and there are now three dif­ferent varieties of hummus in the dining halls.” 
Soler said other projects have been pushed forward throughout the semester, such as the completion of a com­puter cluster in Jordan Hall and long-term plans for reno­vations to the DeBartolo Lounge. 
“Additionally, we have main­tained the successful pro­grams of past administrations such as TRANSPO, College Readership and the Lease Fair,” she said. 
The administration approached the close of first semester in after unforeseen challenges. 
“We have been thrown into various situations that were unexpected such as taking on the responsibility to redo pep rallies, representing the stu­dent body during the period of high arrests and being leaders in the time of great sadness to develop proj­
ects like the 
eND Hunger campaign and improve com­munity relations, Soler said. 
“Tonight we have the pro­posed amendment to the structure and role of the Off-Campus Council,” she said. “This is an important internal step to finding long-term solu­tions to good neighbor rela­tions, protecting the welfare of our student and promoting great relationship with our community.” 
Off-Campus Council presi­dent Ryan Hawley presented a resolution to the Senate to change the structure of the Off-Campus Council. 
The resolution proposed two significant changes. 
“We want to change the con­stitution so students currently on campus who plan to move off campus can run for Off-Campus Council positions,” Hawley said. 
Positions on the Off-Campus Council were only open to stu­dents who moved out of the residence halls before their junior year. After the change, students who did not live off campus during the previous year would still be eligible for office. 
“There is very limited junior pool that lives off campus,” Hawley said. “That group is not representative of the entirety of the people who live off campus.” 
The officers do not need to have lived off-campus during their junior year to manage the Off-Campus Council dur­ing their senior year, Hawley said. 
“In the past there has not been a really interested candi­date pool,” Hawley said. “Tons of people on campus are inter­ested and qualified, and we want to afford them the opportunity to run.” 
The second change was the addition of Off -Campus Council ambassadors. 
Student body vice president Andrew Bell said the ambas­sadors would function off campus like senators in on-campus residence halls. 
“For every dorm, there is a senator who is local to you and gets information to you,” Bell said. “Ideally there would be someone who lives at Irish Row with you who can do the same.” 
Breen-Philips senator Erin Burke said the changes would help off-campus students with community relations. 
“I would like to support this resolution,” Burke said. “We have spent a lot of time dis­cussing how we can make the Off -Campus Council more active and more effective to help students be good neigh­bors.” 
The Senate passed the reso­lution with a vote of 25 in favor, two opposed and no abstentions. 

Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
‘Love Your Body Week’ at Saint Mary’s,” Glaub said. “It talks about my schedule of the week with different professors talking, a deaf jam poet coming, t-shirts and other activities that display the health reason, the media rea­son and the sociology behind lov­ing your body.” 
Glaub said she is looking for­ward to bringing the program to Saint Mary’s women. 
“This is definitely my ‘little baby’ because I am so excited … to get support from other RHAs through the Great Lakes and Canada was amazing,” Glaub said. 
The national competition will be held sometime during the spring semester. 
“I am really excited to present this at nationals because we will have our first week done and can let everyone know how it goes,” Glaub said. 

At the conference Glaub was unable to actually present the idea because of her position on RHA, so seniors Marianne Jones and Jessica Robbins did the pres­entation for her. 
“I was really pleased about the turn out at the conference and to make top ten was an amazing experience and I cannot wait until nationals,” Jones said. 

Glaub said the successful results of the program she formulated show the need for this type of awareness at the university level. 
“This obviously shows that this is such an important program to put on campuses in our society today to show genders to be happy and love who you are,” she said. 

Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, November 18, 2010 

Program 
continued from page 1 
producing a new generation of experts working on theology and science. According to Howard, the job market for graduates of this track has improved. Howard said the Harvard Divinity School advertised an endowed chair specifically in theology and sci­ence. 
“We started to notice more and more schools that would mention theology and science or science and religion in a job ad,” Howard said. “Our own faculty having matured and developed some additional strengths and our having realized that there are really job opportunities out there, we just decided that now is the time to do it.” 
Howard said graduates of the track could also pursue positions at foundations like The Templeton Foundation, which funds research on theology and science issues around the world. 
As a result, Howard said grad­uates would help shape under­standing and debate on theology and science, especially when the public frequently misperceives religion as divorced from sci­ence. 
“You often get this misleading impression that there’s a just sci­ence on one side and just reli­gion on the other side, and that there’s no complexity in the debate,” Howard said. 
One misleading impression involves the Catholic Church’s position on evolution. For decades, Howard said, the church has embraced evolution as the correct scientific under­standing of human origins. 
“The Catholic position has been that there has to be a place in that story for understanding the emergence of insouled human beings,” Howard said. “But again that’s not an impedi­ment to the full embrace of evo­lution as the right scientific understanding of human ori­gins.” 

Howard said HPS modeled the track after the existing tracks in philosophy and history. 
“This too is going to be an unusually intensive program,” Howard said. “It’s going to take tough and smart people to do well in this program, but we’re confident that we are going to attract those kinds of people into the program.” 
Gregory Sterling, dean of the Graduate School, was “enthusi­astic” about the new track, which should produce two or three graduates every year. 
“More than an expansion of the total numbers, it will deepen the pool and help strengthen what is already a very fine pro­gram,” Sterling said. 
The addition of the track comes at a time when the school has undergone other changes. Sterling said The Kroc Institute has added several tracks, including peace and theology, in the last couple of years. 
According to Sterling, the school is determining the opti­mum size of every graduate pro­gram and whether they meet the needs of society. 
“We are taking stock of our programs and asking how should we change our programs to address the needs of the larg­er world,” Sterling said. 
While HPS will not offer cours­es in the track until the 2011 Fall Semester, Howard has already seen student interest. 
“I was surprised at how quick­ly I started getting inbound e­mails asking detailed questions about the program, asking for career advice about what you would do with this degree,” Howard said. “That’s just fur­ther confirmation of our sense that the world was ready for something like this.” 

Contact Katlyn Smith at ksmith33@nd.edu 
Contend 
continued from page 1 
through Notre Dame’s Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, will make the University a hub for under­standing the interaction between Catholicism, other world religions and secular soci­ety. 
“The heart of this project is that it’s comparative,” Mason said. “Our vision is that it will involve dozens of scholars both here at Notre Dame and around the world.” 
Today and Friday in New York City, the University will launch Contending Modernities. Today at 4 p.m. at the Sheraton New York, University President Fr. John Jenkins will deliver an introduction to the project. Kroc Institute Director Scott Appleby will also address the prior to three keynote speakers. 
Shaykh Ali Gomaa, the Grand Mufti of Egypt, will speak through videoconference. Jane Dammen McAuliffe, president of Bryn Mawr College and former president of the American Academy of Religion, and John McGreevy, dean of Notre Dame’s College of Arts and Letters will also give keynote speeches. 
Friday at 10 a.m., the University will host a panel titled “Women, Family and Society in Islam and Catholicism,” featuring experts with a variety of perspectives. 
While there are plans for the project to eventually include other religions, it is beginning with Catholicism and Islam because they have many simi­larities, Mason said. 
There are Catholics and Muslims in every country, Mason said, and members of both faiths make up approxi­mately one-third of the global population. 
“They’re the two truly global religions,” he said. “They’ve had to adjust to the radical transfor­mations that have come about in the modern world … They make really interesting histori­cal cases or parallels because of this shared experience of having to live through or renegotiate the transitions of modernity.” 
Today and Friday’s launch events in New York were planned long before the contro­versy over the Islamic cultural center near Ground Zero, but Mason said the controversy is a further indication of Contending Modernities’ importance. 
Public discourse about issues such as terrorism and Sept. 11 are important in modern society and a part of Contending Modernities, Mason said. 
“Scholars have, we believe, an obligation to enrich the public discourse on these things,” he said. “Part of the underlying foundation of the project is that … the most important problems we have aren’t going to be solved by secular institutions alone.” 
After the project’s launch, Mason said the University would form research teams in early 2011. The project is designed to unfold over several years, but the preliminary stage will include teams of Catholic, Muslim and secular experts at Notre Dame and around the world. Together, they will explore themes such as human development, science, gender, law, migration, violence and peace. 
Emad Shahin, the Henry R. Luce Associate Professor of Religion, Conflict and Peacebuilding at Notre Dame, joined the Notre Dame faculty in 2009 and has been involved in the planning stages of Contending Modernities. 
Shahin will also participate in the project’s research teams. His own research focuses on Islamic politics and the relationship between Islamic law and mod­ern political concepts, and he said he is looking forward to the project’s ability to find common ground between Catholicism and Islam. 

“I’ve always thought of the possibilities of building a com­mon ground, common agenda and even a plan of action between the various communi­ties of faith that could enable them to cooperate and respond to the challenges in our modern world at the humanistic or humanitarian level.” 
In addition to a scholarly research initiative, Mason said Contending Modernities is a public education project. Research teams will present their findings to the broader public through writing op-ed newspaper pieces, contributing to blogs, working to develop school curriculums, advising religious and civic leaders or writing policy papers for gov­ernments. 
“This is really bold and ambi­tious and innovative and really sort of takes Notre Dame a step further in terms of our outreach to the world,” Mason said. 
At Notre Dame, the Kroc Institute has already applied for and received money to hire new faculty members, including one specialist in global Catholicism, two professors in Islamic studies and one Islamic law specialist. 
Mason said the project could eventually lead to research opportunities for undergradu­ates, expansion of the University’s foreign language offerings and new study abroad programs. These programs would be created in cooperation with other offices and depart­ments at Notre Dame. 
“One of our real hopes is that Contending Modernities will act as a seed to further internation­alize the University,” Mason said. 


Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 


STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 


Group discusses Le Mans basement project 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s College Student Government Association (SGA) dis­cussed which colors should be used to decorate the Le Mans Hall basement Wednesday. 
The basement is being redeco­rated as SGA’s Capital Fund proj­ect. 
“Our goal today at the end of this meeting is that we are going to have one color pallet, color scheme, picked out,” student body president Rachael Chesley said. 
SGA discussed three different color pallets. The first was a light green with coral and teal accents. The second pallet consisted of a warm yellow with aqua marine blue and light pink accents. The final color pallet was pale orange with coral and navy accent colors. 
“When we were talking accent colors we didn’t mean whole walls,” Kelly Lyons, senior class president, said. “We are talking [about] the accessories of the room.” 
SGA voted to eliminate the orange, coral and navy color pallet and continued to discuss the other two options. 
“This is our room we’re creat­ing,” Chesley said. 
According to Chesley, the color scheme should be unique and should not be the same colors that are seen throughout campus. 

Lyons said she wanted the color scheme to be “homey.” 
Chesley said the Board should focus on “choosing a color that you feel could be versatile no matter what we choose or what they choose in the future.” 
According to Chesley, it was important for SGA to consider the color pallet for future years so as to choose colors that were time­less. 
SGA members voted to pursue the light green color pallet with coral and teal accents. 
The Board also discussed the dif­ferent zones that should be includ­ed in the basement. 
SGA discussed having eight dif­ferent zones within the basement. 

“One of them would be a TV, Wii [video game system and a] video game area,” Lyons said. 
Additional zones included a kitchen and vending zone, a movie space and game area. 
SGA also discussed posting bul­letin boards in the basement, as well as a world map. 
All of SGA’s ideas will be present­ed to a designer who will assist in the remodeling of the basement. 
There will be no SGA meeting next week due to Thanksgiving. 


Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 

Thursday, November 18, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 
release is even spilling into the tour guides. inspiration for the decorations Wednesday’s dinner, based on a classrooms amongst his friends. Junior and Administrative and the menu. Harry Potter dinner held in April 

Potter 

“My friend at Brown is in class Assistant to Undergraduate “I rewatched the first movie 2009. He said he doesn’t believe with Emma Watson, [the actress Admissions Tim Gannatti said because there were a lot of din-any other film franchise could 
continued from page 1 

who plays Hermione Granger,]’” this rumor is just that, not based ing hall scenes. We’re trying our inspire such a demand from stu­
he said. “This week when she in any fact. best to get the flavor of it, what dents. said. “I think we have more of an answered a question correctly, “I would say it’s a tall tale that they had during the meals,” he “I think how popular Harry appreciation than other schools someone shouted out ‘Ten points is passed on through the years; I said. “The menu is based off of Potter is, I don’t think many because we have a nerdier stu-to Gryffindor!’” remember my tour guide saying that, which tends to be everyday movie series could compete for dent body.” Sophomore Patty Walsh said the same thing,” he said. “I have items. We’re trying to mimic the campus wide acceptance,” 
Domel said the magic of the she knew tickets would sell fast, said it to my tours. No one told dessert items.” Krusniak said. dining experience would only and it motivated her to buy tick-us to say it, and I don’t believe Krusniak said he was expect-continue on Thursday, as she ets to the midnight premiere that it’s in the tour guide manu-ing around 1,000 more students Contact Sam Stryker at was anticipating attending a early. al.” than usual to attend sstryke1@nd.edu midnight showing of “Deathly “Around Halloween we heard The urban legend may be Hallows” with other residents of people talking about Harry based in the Gothic architecture Badin Hall. Potter, so we knew we needed to of the building. According to the 
“I am going to a midnight get tickets right away before they Notre Dame Campus Tours web-showing. We’re going super early sold out,” she said. “We would site, South Dining Hall is mod-and we’re planning to do trivia have driven up to half an hour eled after a medieval Guild Hall. while we wait,” she said. away to make the premiere.” The website said, “Today’s stu­“Costumes are expected for Local theatres have sold out dents find it reminiscent of Harry those attending.” multiple showings of the mid-Potter’s Hogwarts.” 
Trunzo said he was planning night release. The movie ticket South Dining Hall Manager Bill on attending a midnight showing website fandango.com listed the Krusniak says the Harry Potter as well. He said anticipation for AMC Showplace 16 South Bend dinner has been in the planning the new film is running high, with four sold out midnight since early October. even amongst friends from other showings and Cinemark Movies “The students came up and universities. 14 in Mishawaka with six sold asked with the new movie com­
“A lot of my friends are seeing out midnight showings. ing out, what are the chances of it at midnight at other schools. The notion of South Dining Hall doing a dinner?” he said. “I ran The general excitement is a lot serving as inspiration for it by the general manager, and higher than it was in high Hogwart’s Great Hall of the films we went from there.” school,” Trunzo said. has become an urban legend of Krusniak said he went directly 
Trunzo said anticipation for the sorts, often fueled by campus to the movies to provide accurate 


something we are working on with the building staff,” she said. 


Sustain 
“We’re exploring ideas about how to involve students in some sort of 
continued from page 1 
‘turn off the lights’ committee. If 

we can build a partnership with means contractors will be around students and staff, we can be real-campus evaluating how to make ly successful.” the University more energy effi-There have been some improve­cient. ments made to the process of 
The Office of Sustainability is reducing unnecessary lighting also involved in a trial run with around campus, such as renova-Eaton, an engineering company tions that include lights with with which the University has timers or motion sensors and partnered. emergency lighting that only turns 
“We have an electric car on on when a movement triggers it, loan from Eaton,” Novick said. rather than lights that stay on all “We’re just trying it out and lend-night just for precaution. ing it to people on campus in “Reducing our carbon footprint order to explore the possibility of is our biggest focus,” Novick said. getting electric vehicles on cam-“Climate change is a global prob-pus.” lem, and reducing our contribu-
The Office of Sustainability is tion to it will have an impact on also concerned about excessive the rest of the world.” waste in the dining halls. On a local scale, Novick said 
“The energy impact of food is saving energy results in the tremendous, and people aren’t reduction of overall emissions and always conscious of how much the result is cleaner air in our energy and water went into the region. dining hall food,” Novick said. The grand total of both the 
Co-sponsored by the Office of monetary and energy savings Sustainability and GreeND, the from the Dorm Energy eND Hunger campaign runs dur-Competition won’t be announced ing Wednesdays in the dining until the end of the month, Novick halls. said. 
“The big focus is to raise dona-“It always surprises people how tions for the food bank in north-much energy can be saved,” she ern Indiana, but it also includes a said. ”All the actions people do clean plate program at dinner on like turning off the light or Wednesdays during November,” unplugging unnecessary electron-Novick said. ics are all really minor, but with a Novick added that small-scale multiplication factor of 7,000 peo­projects, such as turning off lights ple on campus doing the same in unused classrooms was also small actions, the numbers grow. “something we’ve been trying to Students as a community have a 
work on.” huge potential to save energy.” 
“There is no reason for lights to be on at night in empty class-Contact Caitlyn Kalscheur at rooms, and that’s definitely been ckalsche@nd.edu 

The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 6 Thursday, November 18, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Life is a game ... 

Iconic movie character Forrest Gump told the world that “life was like a box a chocolates” in order to stress the seemingly unpredictable and capricious aspects of life. William Shakespeare’s likened our existence to a drama, asserting that “All the world’s a stage, and all the men and women merely players.” These metaphors and similes are potent literary weapons capable of deconstructing Michael Todisco and explaining 

Sports
human existence. 

Production
Both Forrest Gump 
Editor

and William Shakespeare used these literary devices to create sense within the world’s ultimate mystery — the human existence. Countless others have attempted to explain this same question. To this pan­theon of possible answers, I humbly submit my own entry: Life is game of Tetris. 
It was Benjamin Franklin who declared that, “In the world nothing can be said to be certain except death and taxes.” However, I think Ben may have given taxa­tion too central of a role. As Al Capone and Martha Stewart both proved to us, taxation can be evaded. This leaves life with only one certainty — its antithesis and eternal nemesis: death. While this view may seem overly morose and pedantic, it takes only a moment to realize its validity. Throughout history there have been billions of distinct existences. Although some characteristics (love, loss, friendship, to name a few) may work their way into a majority of lives, death is the only factor that has touched each and every life. Much like in life, all games of Tetris are doomed to share the same condemned fate. When manipulating each Tetris piece, one is only staving off their ultimate fate for as long as possible. No matter the skill of the player, the game will always come to an end. 
In my English teacher’s room in high school, there was a sign listing ten rules to be a successful adult. The number one rule was, “Life isn’t fair, get used to it!” Although everyone essentially has a clean start to begin, almost immediately it becomes muddied with advantages and deprivations. Some players may receive great pieces that come with unimaginable benefits (see what happens in Massachusetts if your last name is Kennedy!), while others may be given an exigent slew of pieces that test their very character. Ultimately though, each player can control their own destiny. Some of the greatest successes emerge from the pre­carious south side of Chicago, while the most intense tragedies are often found somewhere in the perfection of the subur­bia. 
Much like Tetris, life is intrinsically unde­featable. There is no critical achievement to define a “winner.” Much is the same in Tetris. This is not Mario; there is no princess or villain to conquer. Tetris is painfully realistic. I may set a personal best or make a memorable maneuver, but I will never conquer the game. Does this mean that I should sit in my room and wait for a fast approaching and unavoidable death? Absolutely not! What this means is that no matter how well I do, there is room to improve and goals to strive towards. It means I can never be satisfied and must perpetually look to improve and achieve. Yes, life is a game of Tetris, and I wouldn’t want it any other way. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 

The evil lurking in Harry Potter 
As anyone who did not make the unfortunate decision to eat at North last night is already aware, this week Notre Dame has decided to pay homage to the Harry Potter franchise by hosting a Hogwarts-
themed dinner  Ryan Williams  
at South Dining  
 
Hall. Along with the Yule Ball  freethoughts  
dance scheduled  

for Friday evening, the events form the centerpiece of student government’s effort to celebrate this week’s release of the seventh film of the Harry Potter series. They are also a shameless betrayal of this University’s founding Christian principles. 
Few people seem to understand the existential threat that the Harry Potter novels pose to our nation’s Christian culture and way of life. Behind the charming façade of a courageous young hero on a quest to destroy evil lies a subversive plot to corrupt America’s young people. The books unabashedly advocate witchcraft and Satanism while openly blaspheming our Lord Jesus Christ and encouraging readers to take revenge on those who wrong them through the use of spells, rituals and demonic powers. The novels are among the most widely read books of all time 
— author J.K Rowling has sold an esti­mated 400 million copies of her sedi­tious literature (an especially disturbing fact given that many of this iniquitous woman’s readers are young children who are easily influenced by popular culture.) Indeed, it has been demon­strated that the novels have adverse effects on the religious beliefs of our nation’s youth, causing them to believe, among others things, that magic is real and powerful, that conversing with ghosts of the dead is common and 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
acceptable and that the Bible is nothing but a collection of lies and fantastical tall tales. The books also promote eso­teric practices like clairvoyance, astrol­ogy, divination and numerology, which further lead our children away from traditional American values. 
Thankfully, the Catholic Church has been one of the few organizations to recognize the inherent danger that the Harry Potter franchise poses to conven­tional morality and the American way of life. Upon release of the fifth novel in the series, Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger, later to become Pope Benedict XVI, commented that the books contain “subtle seductions, which act unnoticed and by this deeply distort Christianity in the soul, before it can grow properly.” In addition, Father Gabriel Amorth, one of the official exorcists of the Archdiocese of Rome and a man experi­enced in dealing with magic and demons, noted that, “Behind Harry Potter hides the signature of the king of the darkness, the devil.” He went on to add that, while the books seem to dif­ferentiate between good magic and bad magic, this is in fact misleading, “because magic is always a turn to the devil.” Other Christian organizations have raised similar concerns about the series, including the evangelical group Focus on the Family, which denounced the books for packaging their message “in a medium — witchcraft — that is directly denounced in Scripture.” Indeed, even President George W. Bush recognized that Harry Potter presented a serious threat to America, as he denied Rowling the Presidential Medal of Freedom, on account of her books’ pernicious content. 
Unfortunately for the Notre Dame community, this University has not seen fit to heed the warnings of these brave, enlightened leaders. Instead, it has cho­sen to spit in the face of its Catholic identity by brazenly embracing and cel­ebrating Rowling’s witchcraft-promot­ing novels. The disgraceful decision to host Harry Potter themed events on campus is only the latest example of this University shamelessly ignoring its founding Christian principles as it con­tinues its transition into a secular, elit­ist institution in the mold of Harvard, Yale or Hogwarts. What is even more disturbing is that, by hosting a special dinner and ball that supposedly take place in the fantasy world of Harry Potter, the university appears to be encouraging its students to pretend that they don’t live in reality, that they instead live in a magical world where sorcery and Satanism reign supreme. What then is the point of Notre Dame continuing to call itself a Catholic uni­versity, when clearly it cares more about promoting esoteric false religions like paganism and Wicca? Where are the outraged alumni protesting this bla­tant disregard for Catholic principles, as they so effectively protested President Obama? It is time for this University to take a stand against the evils of Harry Potter and lead her stu­dents down the path of true faith and morality. I profess, in the sincerity of my heart, that I have not the least per­sonal interest in endeavoring to pro­mote this necessary work, having no other motive than the public good of my country and my University. 
Ryan Williams is a sophomore. In his free time, he enjoys reading Swift and Moliere. He can be reached at twilli15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Sometimes I lie awake at night,and I ask, ‘Where have I gonewrong?’ Then a voice says to me,‘This is going to takemore than one night.’” 
Charles M. Schulz 
U.S. cartoonist 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“When people think the world ofyou, be careful with them.” 
Margaret Cho
U.S. actress 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Thursday, November 18, 2010 page 7 
Winning during a time of loss 
As autumn ends and the words “lake effect” become a more regular, and biting, descriptor in our daily weather report; as we have to sleep in later and later to wake up in sunlight (a challenge many in Dillon 
seem up for!);  
and the days of  Fr. Lou DelFra  
frisbees and bare  
feet on the quads  Faithpoint  
fade from memo­ 
ry — the Church  

offers us November as the Month of the Dead. Well, we can’t fault them for bad timing; November is, indeed, a time for losing. (Don’t tell this to the football team …) 
“I will not lose anything of what my Father has given me.” 
Jesus, fully human, is nonetheless keen to push the limits of what it means to be human. He seems often to make claims that most of us normal humans would have a difficult time uttering. Claims like, “I am the resurrection and the life.” Most humans I know would pause before claim­ing that one. Or, “I am the Bread of Life. And if you eat of my flesh and drink of my blood, you will have eternal life within you.” That’s one that most humans proba­bly wouldn’t want to say even if they could. 
Though perhaps not as spectacular, this claim about “not losing anything” pushes the limit of what we know to be true of our human experience. 
That is to say, think about how hard it is for us not to lose something. We can start, simply, with inanimate objects — car keys, your ID, a flash drive. And we can move quickly to more existential targets — our temper, our integrity, our way. It turns out, we lose things all the time. 
How many of our greatest human stories would simply disappear if we removed from human experience the possibility of losing something or being lost? Farewell to Odysseus, Dante and Ahab, before we even start thinking deeply. As all three of these protagonists would attest, it is a madden­ing thing to lose or to be lost. It is, too, a most helpless feeling. If your car keys are really lost, and not simply misplaced, you cannot just will them back into your hand. Rather, you just have to stand there and pull your hair, and look again and, eventu­ally, call the car dealer. Dante cannot will himself out of the dark woods, nor Ahab simply will the appearance of the elusive white whale. Indeed, it is frustrating, mad­dening, helpless to lose or to be lost. 
During the month of November in the Church, we are invited to push this experi­ence to the limit, where the stakes are infi­nitely higher. What do we do when what we have lost is someone we love? 
In the face of all of this, Jesus says, “I will not lose anything of what my Father has given to me.” Is Jesus exempt from this most human reality? 
It would seem not. For when his disci­ples ask him to teach them about the Kingdom of God, Jesus responds, in para­bles, about a lost coin, and a lost sheep, and a treasure lost in a field. In these sto­ries, Jesus seems as maddened with loss as we are, for in each of these parables, the lost object is restlessly sought and found. 
Think of the restlessness Jesus conveys in the parable of the lost sheep. A shep­herd has a hundred sheep and one is lost and the shepherd goes off to find it. Certainly, it is a near-heretical move to jux­tapose Jesus and Ahab. Yet the one lost sheep (and chances are it was white!) does seem to provoke the shepherd — really beyond all reason — to leave 99 worth­while sheep, and search the desert relent­lessly for the one. In a scene right out of exuberant Homer, the woman who loses a coin, upon finding it, throws a party that is worth more than the coin she lost. Jesus, like us, is agitated in loss and exultant in discovery. 
Perhaps this is nowhere more the case than in the scene where Jesus faces loss of the highest sort — John 11, where Jesus learns of the death of his friend, Lazarus. 
What does this Gospel have to tell us about losing someone we love? We can begin with what it conspicuously does not tell us. It does not tell us why we lose peo­ple we love. It does not shed light on why the human experience includes, indeed is sometimes dominated by, such painful and definitive separation. It does not tell us how to make the sting of loss disappear. 
In fact, in this Gospel, when Jesus finally reaches Lazarus’ tomb, and the reality of the loss becomes physically present before his eyes, we read three powerful words: “And Jesus wept.” No further details are given; no explanation is offered. Death is death; Lazarus is dead; and Jesus weeps. It would be to short-change Jesus’ human­ity to insist that he had an easier time with the death of someone he loved than we do. 
Yet still, after he weeps, Jesus asks Lazarus’ sisters — Martha and Mary — perhaps the only question left to ask in the face of death. He asks them, in the midst of his tears, “Do you believe Lazarus will rise again?” He asks us, here in mid-November, “Do you believe the people you love will rise again?” 
Perhaps one way to understand the Church’s Month of the Dead is as an invita­tion from Jesus — even while he weeps and feels the severity of the separation: “Do you believe your loved ones will rise again? Do you believe that this loss is not permanent? Do you believe that death does not get the final word? Do you believe in the resurrection?” 
Because Jesus weeps, we can trust that he understands that these questions are not always entirely uncomplicated for us to answer. And so, in order to encourage — indeed, embolden — us, Jesus offers us this audacious reminder: “I will not lose anything of what my Father has given me.” 
“I am the Resurrection and the Life,” says our God-made-human. “And all are raised in me.” 
This week’s column is written by Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, of Campus Ministry and ACE. He can be reached at del­fra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


You are fantastic hosts 
We just recently returned from a three day stay in South Bend that included attending the Utah-Notre Dame football game. We want to say thanks to the Irish students and fans for the gracious way we were treated. You were fantastic hosts and impressed upon us a standard of sportsmanship we would like to import to the University of Utah. I can only hope the vast majority of Ute fans treated you with similar respect and apologize if that did not happen. I hope we meet again but not until we find our offense. A job well done Irish! 
Greg and Marti Smith 
University of Utah alumni Nov. 17 

A rebuttal  
To whom it may concern:  
Isn't Falstad dead?  
Sincerely,  
Austin Holler  
senior  
off campus  
Nov. 17  


Who’s snarky? 
Dear Kiely, 

What’s wrong with puny carrots? What do you have against those poor pieces that are thinly-sliced? They didn’t choose to be that way, that’s the way they were made! Are they less crunchy? Do they taste worse than big carrots? Or do you just find them unappealing because they do not con­form to the shape you think is right? It’s no wonder we have problems with gender, culture, diversity and body image when people can’t even accept carrots for what they are. 
You do not have the right to call yourself “That Carrot Girl.” You are biased and discriminatory and if the vegeta­bles could vote you’d be long gone. Take heed and amend your ways Miss King. Don’t be so particular about your pro­duce; just (quickly) grab a scoop or a handful and enjoy whatever nourishment each piece has to offer. You may be surprised to find that behind their varied appearances, all carrot pieces are pretty much the same. 
In Notre Dame, 


Ayla Bicoy 
junior McGlinn Hall Nov. 17 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The Observer 




Scene
page 8 Thursday, November 18, 2010 

en-tundras mixed up. I know Conan O’Brien 
By MARISSA FROBES 

sometimes one thing can be Another late night talk show 
Assistant Scene Editor 

both. Rap God issues!!! LOL!!!! host has a knack for Tweeting. 
Looking for a mode of pro-This witty redhead, unlike most crastination? As if the world Hip Hop Artists, continued celebs, refrains from plugging doesn’t know enough about the Other hip hop artists hot on his show constantly and demon-lives of their favorite celebri-the Twitter scene are 50 Cent strates his comedic talent in the ties, Twitter offers one more and P. Diddy. It seems neither of most modern way possible: the stalking tool for avid fans of these two know what to tweet sarcastic tweet. movies, music, television and about, but they do it constantly, even politics. Oddly enough, so 50 posts gibberish and Diddy @ConanOBrien: Just found out Twitter requires agency of the pulls pranks (he’s not married my new show is not on in celebrity. They can “tweet” for or a vegan, just felt like tweet-Finland. What the hell is publicity, to complain or to ing it). President Obama doing with his entertain with absolute non-time? #EläköönSuomi sense. Here’s a handful of noto-@50cent: this is funny smack rious celeb tweeters and some me so i can eat @ConanOBrien: Rmbr – examples of their best use of dooont Twet whljik you driv. It 140 characters: @iamdiddy: I decided to get is dngrou7s 
Married today!!! I feel like a Kanye West new man! Wedding is planned Lindsay Lohan 
Though it took him a while to for valentines day!!! Your all Is she in jail? Is she in rehab? catch on to the Twitter craze, welcome!! Feb 14th. Let’s go! Is she shooting a movie? The Kanye West is easily one of the world doesn’t know, because most talked-about tweeters. He @iamdiddy: I also became this girl is on a Twitter hiatus. follows 0 people (he tried to fol-vegan today!!!! :) But when she was tweeting reg-low one teen from the UK, who ularly, she did so with brutal did not welcome the media Jimmy Fallon honesty. Thanks for keeping us frenzy that ensued). He tweets Fallon is the king of hashtags. posted, Lindsay! constantly, sometimes with a For those who don’t tweet, a tone of narcissism, always with hashtag is preceded by a “#” @lindsaylohan: This was cer­a hint of crazy. sign and is used to create real tainly a setback for me but I am 
time record of groups on taking responsibility for my 
@kanyewest: You have to bal-Twitter. In addition to actions and I’m prepared to ance ignorance with intellect! #FallonMono, which is attached face the consequences. Can ’t have school with out to any uniquely Fallon procla­recess! #Greatesttweetofalltime mation, he has began several @lindsaylohan: Regrettably, I 
hashtags that have become did in fact fail my most recent 
@kanyewest: I’ve finally real-worldwide trends on Twitter. drug test and if I am asked, I ized as long as you use profani-am prepared to appear before ty when you talk about art and @jimmyfallon: Three urinals judge Fox next week as a fashion it’s better accepted!!! and you take the middle one? result. 
#SLAPYOURSELF 

@kanyewest: This is rock and Russell Brand roll life my people... you can’t @jimmyfallon: Guy asking me Unfortunately his best Twitter stop the truth you can’t stop the where the wine is. Dude, this a work cannot be published due music and I have to be strong STOP & SHOP. #awwhellno to Brand ’s word choice, but or “they” win!!!! here are a few treats of his 
@jimmyfallon: If Mt. tweet legacy. 
@kanyewest: Everything Rushmore was animatronic and sounds like sang songs like the Country @rustyrockets: When I heard noise!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! EVERY-Bear Jamboree. #thatwould -that Coldplay were covering my THING SOUNDS LIKE beawesome song “Bangers, Beans and NOISE!!!!!!! I don’t trust any-Mash” I wet myself — and it one! @jimmyfallon: That the two was all yellow. 
remaining Beatles would 
@kanyewest: I am a creative reunite and sing the theme song @rustyrockets: I am about to person.... I’m not a good to “Full House.” #ifihadonewish have a medical examination celebrity but I’m a great artist... and have eradicated body hair I’m tired of using my celebrity @jimmyfallon: I just want to I’m like a Benjamin Button to sell my art. say happy birthday to reality Justin Bieber. 
star Heidi Montag! Today, parts 


Contact Marissa Frobes at 
@kanyewest: Sometimes I get of her turned 24! #FallonMono the usage of puns and double mfrobes@nd.edu 
LISA HOENYK | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 



Scene
Thursday, November 18, 2010 page 9 
Club Fever ft. DJ Cam Smith Club Fever, Downtown South Bend 10 p.m to 3 a.m $4, 21 and up, ID required 
Don’t miss Notre Dame’s very own Cameron Smith as guest DJ at Club Fever tomorrow. He will be mixing up some awesome tunes for everyone to enjoy and dance with. Bring a group of friends and enjoy an exciting Thursday night out. 
Asian Allure: “Culture Shock” Washington Hall 
7:30 p.m. to 9:30 p.m $7, tickets available at LaFortune Box Office 
Get to know the variety of Asian cultures on campus with one of the Asian American Association’s most popular shows of the year. Enjoy live music, comedic skits and America’s Best Dance Crew dance-offs while learning about different cultures and their traditions. 
Delta Spirit Concert Legends 11 p.m. Free with student ID 
The Delta Spirit group is coming all the way from San Diego to per­form here at Notre Dame. Their music combines folk, rock and country and will entertain you all night long. Don’t forget to stay after the concert for Legends “Best of the 2000’s” music to keep the party going. 
Boy Gets Girl Debartolo Performing Arts Center 
2:30 p.m. $10 with student ID 
End your weekend with a play about work and relationships by the Department of Film, Television and Theatre. Will Theresa choose her work over a guy or will she see her old life disappear as she becomes more invested in her relationship? Don’t miss it! 


from San Diego will be crooning from their first EP, “I Think I’ve Found It”, as well as two previous albums, “Ode to Sunshine” and “History From Below.” The band also released “The Waits Room EP ” on Nov. 16 featuring five songs, “The Flood, ” “Bushwick Blues, ” “Devil Knows You’re Dead,” “John Henry ” and “My Dream, ” which are currently avail­able on iTunes. 
The five-piece band born out of San Diego is known for their warbling rag-tag teaming of Americana, blues and indie -rock that result in guttural soul searching songs and rip ­ping tunes that seem famil­iar and chillingly brand new all at the same time. Delta Spirit’s concerts are sure to please, with a “Doug”-like habit of “ban-gin’ on a trash can” — or whatever else they can find 
— and a blast of energy that only love of music or a can of Four Loko could pro­vide. We’ll assume they’re getting it from the music. 
Their particular brand of intoxicating crooning sounds like it should be coming from the far barstool in some lonesome dive at last call, or maybe around a campfire out on the open range instead of the Legend ’s stage. Time travel is not out of the question with their musical influences that stretch from as far across the country as they have dur­ing their tours, which have 
often been with acts like Cold War Kids, The Shins, Dr. Dog, Matt Costa and more. 
With lyrics ranging from religious pondering to social commentary, they’re always accented with a welcoming and fun sound that ’s enough to either incite a riot or silent ado­ration, a deep strike into the uniquely American 

LISA HOENYK | Observer Graphic 
page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, November 18, 2010 
Dwyer 
continued from page 16 
While studying abroad last year, Dwyer visited the Lakeview School in Uganda, which is operated by the Holy Cross missions that draw a large amount of their funding from the club’s annual Baraka Bouts. 
“It’s reassuring to see that what we do thousands of miles away is contributing to a wor­thy cause,” the senior said. “All the locals and teachers told us that Lakeview is the best school in the area and it’s nice to know that we have a part in that.” 
Baraka Bouts started in an auxiliary gym in the JACC in 2002, serving as the female ver­sion of the Bengal Bouts. But now the event has become so popular that they hold the exhi­bitions in the JACC Fieldhouse in front of hundreds of fans. 
“This year we had over 120 girls that came out to train with us when we would usually get around 70 each year at the beginning,” senior boxer Viviana Kim said. “At times it is definitely intimidating but it comes with a personal sense of achievement and a growing experience once we are done.” 
The club required each boxer to attend four practices a week. Each practice typically ran two-three hours long and included running, calisthenics and spar­ring. In addition to the grueling practices, many of the club members were new to boxing, and required novice training in rules and standard boxing tech­niques. 
“We really just taught them all of the basics and got them in shape to be as ready as they can for the fights,” senior cap­tain Kayla Bishop said. “But one of my favorite parts of it all is being able to teach the girls about the game and seeing them progress from day one.” 
Accordingly, the club paired the 72 competitors by their size and their ability in order to cre­ate the best matchups possible for the three-round fights. And for the second year in a row, the club will have two fights going on simultaneously, due to the amount of competitors. 
“These girls have worked so hard, mentally and physically, to get each other better,” Bishop said. “At the end of the fight, you will see the two fighters hug and congratulate each other, which is a testament to the bond that they have built.” 
Even though each of the fight­ers works to achieve victory in the ring, they realize that they are fighting for something big­ger than just the competition. 

“Our coach told us yesterday that no one loses in this contest because the audience gets some entertainment, we grow as fighters and the children in Uganda receive a better educa­tion and better lives,” Kim said. “Sometimes you just step out of the ring and realize that you aren’t just helping yourself, but something much greater.” 
Baraka Bouts will start at 6 

p.m. tonight in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Admission is $6 and all proceeds go to benefit the Holy Cross missions in Africa. 
Contact Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd.edu 
NHL 



SuttertradedbyfathertoCanes 
Associated Press 
RALEIGH, N.C. — Roughly one week after Brett Sutter was jailed following a bar fight, his father traded him away. 
Calgary general manager Darryl Sutter sent his son Brett and defenseman Ian White to the Carolina Hurricanes on Wednesday in exchange for defenseman Anton Babchuk and forward Tom Kostopoulos. The Hurricanes announced the trade about three hours before their game against Ottawa. 
The younger Sutter is getting a fresh start. The trade came roughly a week after the 23-year­old got into a fight outside an Arizona bar and was jailed briefly on suspicion of assault. 
Calgary assistant general man­ager Jay Feaster said the trade was being talked about before that incident. 
"This discussion took place going back to the end of October, beginning of November," Feaster said on a conference call. "He was a player that Carolina identified as someone that they wanted in the deal. So it evolved from there." 
Brett Sutter is also the nephew of Calgary coach Brent Sutter and the older cousin of Carolina alter­nate captain Brandon Sutter — Brent's son. 
Brett Sutter had been sent to the Flames' AHL affiliate in Abbottsford earlier this week for a conditioning assignment, and the Hurricanes said he will report to their AHL affiliate in Charlotte. 
"One of the things that Darryl has always prided himself on is being able to separate out the personal relationship and the business aspect of what it is that we do," Feaster said. "We were in a situation where Brett was not playing, he was not able to crack the starting lineup and hadn't played in an extended period of time. ... 
"It was a decision that was made ... in the best interest of the hockey club." 


Sutter had one assist in four games with the Flames this sea­son, averaging roughly 10 min­utes of ice time in his fourth pro­fessional season. 
"Brett Sutter was part of this deal all along," Carolina general manager Jim Rutherford said. 
White, 26, had two goals and four assists in 16 games with Calgary this season, and had career highs of 13 goals, 25 assists and 83 games played while splitting the 2009-10 season between Toronto and the Flames, who picked him up in January in the Dion Phaneuf trade. 
Rutherford said he first inquired about White's availabili­ty when the season started, and talks accelerated after the Flames signed defenseman Mark Giordano to a five-year contract extension last month. 
The roster shakeup came a few days after the Hurricanes "were embarrassed" in giving up a com­bined 15 goals in consecutive losses to Philadelphia and at Montreal. 
The deal also ends Babchuk's latest stint with the Hurricanes. The defenseman with a hard slap shot scored four game-winning goals during Carolina's run to the Eastern Conference final in 2009. 
He played last season in Russia but agreed to a one-year deal with Carolina in July, and had three goals and five assists this season. 
Kostopoulos had one goal and three assists in 17 games this sea­son with the Hurricanes. 
To help fill the holes in the ros­ter, Carolina also recalled defenseman Brett Carson from Charlotte and had him in the line­up for the game against the Senators. It marks Carson's fourth stint with the Hurricanes this season. 
NFL 


Pats and Colts set to play once again 
Associated Press 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. — A nervous Tom Brady was warming up before his first pro start when one of his opponents took a moment to introduce himself. 
“He said, ‘Hi, Tom, I’m Peyton,’ “ Brady recalled, “which I thought was pretty cool.” 
On that day in September 2001 in Foxborough, the Patriots star-to-be was sur­prised that Peyton Manning, who already had been in two Pro Bowls, even knew his name. Since then, the top quarterbacks of the decade have been frequent foes. 
New England and Indianapolis may be in dif­ferent divisions, but on Sunday two of the NFL’s most dominant franchises will meet for the eighth straight season, the longest streak between non-division opponents since the league realigned its divisions in 2002. 
The tally so far: Patriots 7, Colts 5, including a 2-1 play­off edge for New England. 
“You look at last year’s notes, and they kind of look the same with players and scouting reports and all the different things that they do well and things that we’ve got to try to exploit,” Brady said Wednesday. “There’s a lot of familiarity.” 
That first game, a 44-13 win in which Manning’s four interceptions contributed plenty to the Patriots’ suc­cess, is the most memorable to Brady in all his games against the Colts because it was his first start. It came 
one week after Drew Bledsoe suffered internal bleeding on a hard hit from Mo Lewis of the New York Jets. 

Brady isn’t as eager to remember his last game against the Colts. 
The Patriots lost 35-34 last Nov. 15 when coach Bill Belichick’s big gamble failed. Hoping to seal the victory, he went for it on fourth-and-2 at his 28-yard line, but fell a yard short. The Colts got the ball with 2:00 left and scored with 13 seconds to go on Manning’s 1-yard pass to Reggie Wayne. Adam Vinatieri then kicked the winning extra point. 
“I haven’t thought about it at all since probably that game, since that night,” Brady said. “I’m always con­fident that we’re going to be able to make the play.” 

New England and Indianapolis faced each other twice in 2001 when both were in the AFC East. They didn’t meet in 2002 when the Colts moved to the AFC South. But they’ve hooked up once in each of the past seven regular sea­sons and three times in the playoffs. 
One reason for such fre­quency is that top teams play other top teams as part of the scheduling formula. 
The Patriots won the first six games in the rivalry once Brady became the starter, but since then the Colts have won five of six. 
“It’s always a great matchup,” said New England wide receiver Deion Branch, reacquired from Seattle on Oct. 12. “I think every year things are totally different.” 
Both teams lead their divi­sions despite numerous injuries to key players. The Patriots (7-2) are tied with the New York Jets in the AFC East. The Colts (6-3) lead the AFC South by one game. 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Confucius says:  
FOR SALE  WANTED  FOR RENT  PERSONAL  Ignorance is the night of the mind,  
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't  but a night without moon and star.  
go it alone. Notre Dame has many  
resources in place to assist you. If  ———————————————  
GREAT LOCATION: House for  LACROSSE OFFICIALS/COACH­ you or someone you love needs  Our greatest glory is not in never  
sale/rent on Angela. 2.5K sq ft  ES NEEDED: Local HS/Youth  Housing available for next school  If you or someone you care about  confidential support or assistance,  falling, but in getting up every time  
home. 4BR 3.5BA. Purchase price  teams looking for former players  year. 2 to 5 bedroom homes. Close  has been sexually assaulted, we  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819  we do.  
of $347,500. Perfect rental for facul­ interested in officiating and/or  to campus. Good rates and good  can help. For more information, visit  or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more  
ty/staff $1,250 per month plus utili­ coaching. Compensation is tbd.  landlord. Leasing now. 574-276­ Notre Dame's website:  information, visit ND's website at:  ———————————————  
ties. Call 574-232-2211. Photos  Please contact Mike Williams at  2333  http://csap.nd.edu.  http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu.  
available on the web at 610.sbrp.us  mwilliams@saintjoelacrosse.com  What the superior man seeks is in  
himself; what the small man seeks  
is in others.  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Thursday, November 18, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Freshman center TJ Tynan advances on the ice in a game against Western Michigan on Oct. 29. The Irish won 3-2. 
Rookie 
continued from page 16 
Ridderwall said even though Tynan didn’t join the team until two weeks before its first game, he wasted no time fit­ting right in. 
Now that the season is underway, Jackson said his primary concern was making sure Tynan stayed fresh for later in the campaign. 
“He’s done a great job for us thus far, but I want to make sure that he understands it’s about the whole season and consistency throughout the whole year,” Jackson said. 
Jackson said that Tynan has been getting some rotations on the power play and penalty-killing units, in addition to his regular shifts. While the coaching staff likes his pres­ence on special teams, keeping Tynan fresh for January and February is the priority. 
Listed at 5-foot-8 and 156 pounds, Tynan will never be the biggest guy on the ice, but Jackson emphasized that his size wasn’t necessarily as important as his playing style. 
“He doesn’t play small,” Jackon said. “He plays big and that’s the most important characteristic. I’ve had 6-foot­4 guys that played small, and I’d rather have a guy like him 
— [5-foot-8] and plays big.” 

Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 



page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, November 18, 2010 
isn’t on their opponents right McGraw said she has been Bruins move up on sophomore to control the tempo tomor­now. able to see an improvement guard Skylar Diggins at the row. 


UCLA 
continued from page 16 
McGraw said UCLA would not be an easy opponent, but would give the Irish a chance to evaluate themselves better than in their first two con­tests. 
“They’re fast, they’re quick, they rebound really well, they’re obviously the best team we’ve seen so far this year, so it’s going to be a good test for us to see where [we are] right now,” McGraw said. “What do we need to work on, what do we need to get better at, it’s a great opportunity for us to see where we are.” 
The Bruins (2-0) return four starters and six of their seven top scorers from last season, including junior forward Jasmine Dixon, who was the team’s leading scorer and rebounder a year ago. But McGraw said her team’s focus 
“At this time of year espe­cially, you just want to focus on yourself, and say, we have to contain the ball, we have to rebound, and make adjust­ments as the game goes on,” she said. “But initially we have to try to execute. We’re still so caught up in what we’re doing that that [worry­ing about the other team] will come later.” 
McGraw said the Irish were working on keeping up the intensity and energy in prac­tice and in the games. 
“They press so we will get to see a team like ourselves. What that’s like for forty min­utes to see what the press looks like, and it will be good for us to figure it out,” McGraw said. “We haven’t had to execute. We want to see what we can do offensive­ly. We haven’t had a chance to really get a lot of half court offense working.” 


from her post players so far this season, both the starters and players coming off the bench. 
“I really think they’re play­ing better. Each game, each practice, they look better,” she said. “They’re playing together post to post, their interior passing has gotten better, I think they’re really starting to get comfortable in the offense. I’m confident in them.” 
Looking beyond just the posts, McGraw said the Irish are going to need to be ready 
on all sides of the court tonight, especially when the point. 
“I imagine they’re going to try to key on [Skylar], but it will be up to everybody else to try to handle the ball, that everyone else is ready,” she said. 
Diggins said she was ready to use her own quickness, as well as her teammates, as an advantage and a means to control the game. 
“Practice has been intense and we’ve been working on what we need to work on but at the same time realizing we have to stop what they do, too,” Diggins said. “Focusing on our game and really want 

“We definitely want to use our quickness to our advan­tage, making sure we rebound and box and get out in transi­tion and get some buckets. That’s how we get started and that brings the energy and hopefully our crowd gets involved, it’s going to be a nice atmosphere. [Tonight is] just going to be a great place for basketball, a great atmos­phere.” 
The Irish play host to the Bruins tonight, with a 7 p.m. tipoff at Purcell Pavilion. 

Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 



Thursday, November 18, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 13 page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, November 18, 2010 


JULIE HERDER/The Observer Senior forward Tyrone Nash guards the ball from a Chicago State defender. Nash’s 11 points and 10 rebounds helped the Irish win. 


Nash 
continued from page 16 
fourth-year forward Tim Abromaitis and senior forwards Carleton Scott and Tyrone Nash registered double-doubles for the Irish. Scott led the Irish with 11 rebounds while Abromaitis and Nash each grabbed 10 in Notre Dame’s 59-rebound effort. Abromaitis and Nash were each also three assists shy of triple double, as their seven assists apiece set new career highs. 
“My teammates make it easy for me,” Nash said. “I’m not able to get to get seven assists without my teammates getting in open spots and knocking down shots. With our versatility out there on the court it just makes my job a whole lot easier and fun.” 
While Irish eventually cruised to a 50-point victory, the Cougars hung with the Irish for the first ten minutes of the con­test. Chicago State had a five point lead just over 2:30 into the game and a 3-pointer by Cougars senior guard Jonathan Montgomery tied the game at 24 with 10:38 remaining in the opening half. 
Notre Dame responded with 
9:44 remaining in the first half when Nash scored off an offen­sive rebound to give the Irish a two-point cushion, but Cougars senior guard Christian Wall drained two free throws to tie the game again at 26. 
After Wall converted his free-throw attempts, freshman guard Eric Atkins hit a jumper to give Notre Dame a lead it wouldn’t relinquish, and the Irish went on a 26-5 run to end the half. Atkins finished with 12 points and 5 assists, both career highs. 
“What helped us was that we went zone,” Brey said. “I think that changed their tempo a little bit. They were in a rhythm run­ning their man offense, and guys were just playing loose and firing, even guys that in the scouting report don’t have good percentages. But then we went zone, and that changed their rhythm for when they shot.” 
With all five starters scoring in double figures, the Irish showed just how dangerous they could be as the season pro­gresses. 
“Two guys almost had triple doubles, and it just [shows] you the versatility of our team,” Nash said. “I feel bad for every­body that has to prepare for us because they have to guard us, and if you take one option away, you still have four other options to take care of so it’s hard.” 
After playing three games in six days, the Irish will be off until Monday when they face Maine at Purcell Pavilion. 

Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 




Rankings 
continued from page 16 
No. 24 Kenyon and No. 45 Illinois. 
Irish coach Geoff McCuen said the Irish should fare better this weekend against the Boilermakers and Broncos. 
“We have a chance of beating both teams,” McCuen said. 
Irish captain Kenny Schlax stressed that this tournament will be important for the Irish. 
“We need to improve our CSA standing to have a good seed at nationals,” he said. “Last year Purdue was ranked ten spots above us, so a win against Purdue will give us a signifi­cant boost in terms of looking forward for the season.” 
Schlax said that Notre Dame has a rivalry with both Purdue and Western Michigan. 
“Notre Dame and Purdue are two of only a few squash teams in the area, so we see them a lot in competition and winning against them is huge,” Schlax said. “As with Purdue, we have a friendly rivalry against Western. We helped to get them started and it’s good to see that they have grown from just a few people playing squash.” 
Both McCuen and Schlax said they hope to see the Irish fans come out and support the squash team this Saturday. 
“It would be fantastic if we could put some of the enthusi­asm and excitement into the JACC courts like we put into the football stadium,” McCuen said. “At some Ivy League schools [that do not have] our football tradition, squash crowds are often filled with face-painted, pennant waving, screaming fans.” 
Schlax had a similar message to the Irish faithful. 
“The team is really excited to host our only match on campus this year,” he said. “We hope that we get some campus sup­port. Many people don’t know what squash is. Come to the match and find out.” 
The Irish open Saturday at 9 
a.m. against Western Michigan and continue at 2 p.m. against Purdue. All matches will be held at the JACC courts, locat­ed between gates 1 and 10. 

Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 

Thursday, November 18, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer





Sports
Thursday, November 18, 2010 page 16 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
All fve starters rack up double digits in win 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
Senior guard Ben Hansbrough remained red-hot for the Irish as Notre Dame downed Chicago State 102-62 Wednesday at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Hansbrough entered the game shooting 60 percent from 3-point range and continued to drain buckets from the outside, knocking down a career-high six shots from beyond the arc and leading Notre Dame with 22 points. 
“[Irish coach Mike] Brey’s done a great job slowing down my tempo a little bit and letting the game come to me,” Hansbrough said. “Everybody’s just doing a great job of finding me and I’ve been lucky enough to make a couple shots.” 
Hansbrough was one of five Irish players in double figures on the night. In addition, 
see NASH/page 14 



Century mark 

MAGGIE O’BRIEN/The Observer Fourth year forward Tim Abromaitis dunks during the Irish game against Chicago State Wednesday. Abromatitis scored 21 points as the Irish beat the Cougars 102-62. 
CLUB SPORTS 

Squashuses complex to host teams 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 

This summer, Notre Dame installed a new squash com­plex in the Joyce Center, and the Irish are wasting little time in putting the facilities to use, hosting Western Michigan and Purdue at the Notre Dame Fall Invitational this Saturday. 
Notre Dame competed two weekends ago at the Midwest Round Robin at Kenyon College. The Irish defeated Illinois-Springfield and fell to Kenyon, Illinois and Denison. Six of the nine players who competed for the Irish — who were No. 56 in the College Squash Association (CSA) pre­season rankings — were com­peting in their first collegiate match. They were competing against much more experi­enced teams in No. 24 Denison, 
see RANKINGS/page 14 

HOCKEY 



Freshman Tynan already shines after unexpected season 
Tynan signed his letter of come and right now it’s look-“But I’m not surprised at all “He’s a playmaker that
By SAM WERNER 

intent to play for the Irish in ing like a great decision,” with how well he’s playing.” scores so that’s two great 
Sports Writer 

November 2009, the plan was Jackson said. Tynan notched an assist in things in one,” Ridderwall 
for him to join the team for the “Great decision” may be an Notre Dame’s 3-1 win over said. “He sees guys very well. 
Three months ago, T.J. 2011 season. understatement. So far, Tynan Michigan Friday, and added a He knows where you’re going Tynan wasn’t even supposed to But when rising sophomore leads all Irish freshmen with goal and an assist in to be. It’s easy to know where be at Notre Dame. Now, he’s Kyle Palmieri signed an entry-eight assists and 13 points, Saturday’s 5-3 defeat. Tynan he’s going to be because he’s one of the most productive level contract with the good enough for second on the had four points the weekend usually in the right spot.” rookies in the CCHA. Anaheim Ducks, a spot opened team. Monday, he was named before, with two goals and two One of the hallmarks for this 
At the beginning of August, up on the Irish roster for this the CCHA’s rookie of the week assists in Notre Dame’s split Irish team has been its cama­the freshman center was in season. Irish coach Jeff for the second week in a row. with Bowling Green. raderie, which many players Des Moines, Iowa, readying for Jackson said he let Tynan “Maybe we’re a little sur-Ridderwall said it was Tynan’s have attributed to an intense his second season with the decide if he was ready for prised with how productive on-ice intelligence that summer of workouts. USHL’s Des Moines Division I college hockey. he’s been,” senior left wing allowed him to be so produc-Buccaneers. Even though “He made the decision to Calle Ridderwall said of Tynan. tive. see ROOKIE/page 11 
BARAKA BOUTS 





Women fight for Uganda 
By ANDREW GASTELUM 
Sports Writer 
Walking into a makeshift classroom at Lakeview Senior Secondary School, Anna Dwyer saw benches used as desks and heard about the drainage prob­lems that affected the living conditions of the students. 
This was reason enough to show Dwyer, the Women’s Boxing Club president, that even though the fights had ended, the real fight was not over. 
“We have seen how much we have helped the school, but there are still some problems that we can make a big step in fixing with the bouts,” Dwyer said. 
see DWYER/page 10 


WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 


Irish ready for Bruins after two big wins 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
The No. 12 Irish will face their first big challenge of the season tonight when they host No. 15 UCLA in the two teams’ first meeting since 1998. 
“It ’s going to be a big challenge. It’s a great opportunity for us to come out and play a really good team early in the season,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “It’s just a great situa­tion to see what are they going to do, something we haven’t seen yet obviously since we’ve only played two games, so there’s still a lot that we haven’t seen, and get some work against the zone, we haven’t had a lot to work against the zone yet either. I think a lot of good things [will come out tomor­row].” 

Notre Dame (2-0) defeated New Hampshire 99-48 last week and Morehead State 91-28 Monday to commence its season. In the win over New Hampshire, the Irish recorded new program records in steals (36) and forced turnovers (49). The wins marked the first back-to-back wins by at least 50 points for the first time in school history. McGraw said 
see UCLA/page 12 



