the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Leaders present to Board ofTrustees 
Schmidt, Weber prioritize initiatives including acceptance of GLBT community members 
By JOHN TIERNEY 
News Writer 
Student government is priori­tizing seven initiatives for the rest of the year, student body president Grant Schmidt told the Student Affairs Committee of the Board of Trustees at a meeting Thursday. 
The Notre Dame Forum, the University events calendar, the Task Force on Supporting the Choice for Life, pep rallies, the dissolution of the Department of Economics and Policy Studies, the acceptance of gay and les­bian members of the community and the selection of the Commencement speaker are “the issues of most pressing con­cern” for students, Schmidt said. 
Student body vice president Cynthia Weber said the three most important issues are the acceptance of gay and lesbian members of the community, the dissolution of Economics and Policy Studies and the pro-life task force. 
Acceptance of gay and lesbian members of the community 
Weber said the University must work to “better accept people of different sexual orien­tations. 
“Notre Dame has made enor­mous progress, but there’s still a lot more progress to be made,” Weber said. 
see BOT/page 6 




‘DayofMan’raisesmoneyforhomeless 
evening. He felt cold in that short run and wondered how homeless people live with [the cold], ” senior Michael Dean, coordinator 
of this year’s fundraiser, said. 
Those involved with the fundraiser began planning the event right after winter break, assigning commis­sioners to various duties like recruiting Siegfried residents to participate and contacting the media. 
“[Sophomore] Dan McGrail’s job was to get the local media involved. He even tried to get us live on 
see SIEGFRIED/page 4 


By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
The thermometer read 32 degrees, but yesterday 180 Siegfried Hall men braced the freezing South Bend weather in shorts, T-shirts and sandals to raise money for the South Bend Center for the Homeless. 
The Siegfried Day of Man fundraiser is now in its fourth year — Robbie Bernardin came up with the idea for the fundraiser back in 2007. 
“He came up with [the idea] when he ran back to Siegfried from Farley one 


Saint Mary’s choir to perform in Carnegie 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 

Music professor Nancy Menk and members of the Saint Mary’s Women’s Choir will join other choirs in a performance at Carnegie Hall in New York City on Valentine’s Day. 
The concert is entitled “Love, Lust and Light” and will begin at 2 p.m. in the Isaac Stern Auditorium. 
This will be Menk’s fifth time conducting at Carnegie Hall. 

The Saint Mary’s women will be joined by two local high school choirs, Laporte and Northwood, and two more high school choirs from California. The South Bend Chamber Singers and a group of singers from the Northwest Symphony Chorus will be also be attend­ing. 
“I was asked to do another [performance] and I agreed and the New York company that produces the concerts, there are several of these production companies in New York City, they asked me to suggest other choirs I would recommend who would be well prepared and would learn the music and might enjoy the experience,” Menk said. 

see CHOIR/page 4 


ACE to undertake academy program 
By NORA KENNEY 
News Writer 
Although the Alliance for Catholic Education (ACE) is best known for placing Notre Dame graduates in Catholic schools around the nation to help with academ­ics, the program is now expanding with the induc­tion of new ACE Academies. 
In schools that are desig­nated as ACE Academies, the ACE program will pro­vide support in every area, including curriculum, instruction, assessment, financial management, school leadership, develop-
m e n t ,  m a r k e t i n g  a n d  
Catholic identity.  
Currently, there  are  three  

ACE Academies — all of which are located in Tucson, Ariz. 
“[There is an] enormous, vibrant Catholic community [in Tucson] that is so under-served and so eager for the kind of support that the ACE Program hopes to provide,” Dr. Christian Dallavis, a fac­ulty member who works with ACE, said. 
Sarah Greene, Assistant Director for the ACE Program, said the communi­
see ACE/page 4 

Scholars study merits of Rome 
Two-day colloquium to discuss the influence of the Eternal City 



By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Scholars across disciplines will come together tonight and tomorrow in a colloquium host­ed by the School of Architecture entitled “Learning from Rome: The Influence of the Eternal City on Art, Architecture and the Humanities” in order to ques­tion the merits of studying in and about the Italian capital. 
The two-day colloquium, held in celebration of the School of Architecture’s 40th year in Italy, will begin with an address from keynote speaker Professor Ingrid Rowland 
see ROME/page 6 

JACLYN ESPINOZA | The Observer 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Welsh Family to host DanceFest 2010 page 3  Student government election analysis pullout  Men’s basketball page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Friday, February 5, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Thrill of the Chase 
I like to think of myself as a writer. It is my pastime, my passion and my pro­fession (or, rather, it will be post-gradu­ation). There is nothing like opening a brand new notebook and filling the pages with words. 
It is how I express myself. When I am angry, I write. When I am happy, I write. When I am upset, I write. 

Writing chal­lenges me. I like to try to push myself to improve my Alicia Smith work. I strive to 

News

create something better than I ever production have before with editor each of my compo­sitions. 
Words usually flow easily from the tip of my Paper Mate pen onto my crisp, lined notebook paper. Sometimes, how­ever, I face a challenge. It’s a classic dilemma, writers’ block. I have no topic, no idea and nothing to compose. 
These are the moments every writer dreads. The emptiness of being without a topic makes me cringe. A sense of failure and incompetence washes over me. I need an idea and I need one now. And so, I ensue the thrill of the chase. 
When trying to chase down a topic, initially I brainstorm. I thin of every­thing from puppies to food to school to weather, etc. I write down any thought that pops into my head. Nothing is dis­missed no matter how crazy it may be. When I run out of random ideas, I look over my list. If anything strikes me, I start writing. If not, I move on. 
My next tactic is to just go off on my own and sit in silence. No music or tel­evision, just quiet. I go to the library or take a drive and let my thoughts wan­der. With each new thought, I imagine how I could develop it and turn it into a worthy subject. However, if nothing seems to work, then I try another tac­tic. 
My next attempt is simple. I look around. I observer everything around me, people, nature, buildings and ani­mals. If it is in my line of vision, I look to it for inspiration. Then I describe what I see. In my mind I describe the tree on the Library green, its bark rough like rugged mountains. The limbs branching out, trying to high-five the sky. The glistening green leaves shining in the sunlight. I paint a pic­ture of the landscape around me with words. Sometimes these descriptions are the start of something magical. Other times they are woefully inade­quate. 
If using my vision does not work, then I try another sense. I try to listen. During classes, I listen to my profes­sors, not just for the course material but also for brilliant ideas that I can run with. I listen to the wind push against my window. And then it hits me. I know what I want to say. I grab my notebook and my purple ink pen, shut myself in my room and put it down on paper. In this moment, I find what I have been searching for. I have caught up with that idea that has continuously evaded me. I can now begin to write. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR  AVORITE CA  EINATED BEVERAGE? 





Mike Wiederecht  Stephanie Walz  Andrew Ofsonka  Theresa Lai  Mitch Gainer  
sophomore Keenan  sophomore Pangborn  sophomore Keenan  freshman Pangborn  sophomore Keenan  
“Orange mocha frappucino.”  “Starbucks venti double shot  “Dr. Pepper.”  “Orangina.”  “Waddick’s.”  
upside-down  
white chocolate  
mocha with  

extra soy milk.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer Director of Athletics Jack Swarbrick, right, holds up a jersey during the dedication of the Purcell Pavillion before Notre Dame’s 83-65 win over Cincinnati at the Purcell Pavilion Thursday night. 
OFFBEAT 
Montana restaurant burgalized 3 times in 4 days 
BUTTE — A Butte restaurant was burglarized three times in four days, but the last time, the would-be thieves left empty handed. The first break-in and burglary of Casagranda's restaurant happened sometime overnight Friday and was reported at 10 a.m. Saturday. Butte-Silver Bow Sheriff John Walsh said the suspect or suspects forced a door open and took the contents of the tip jar, between $100 and $200. 
The door was fixed, but the culprits pried it open the next night and again cleaned out the tip jar. 
Sometime on Monday night, someone made a third attempt to rob the restaurant. That time, a cash register was destroyed in an attempt to get it open, however, it was empty. 
Teenager fights off shark with a boogie board 
WELLINGTON — A 14­year old New Zealand girl has been praised for fight­ing off a shark with her boogie board after it had bitten her. The shark bit Lydia Ward on the hip as she was standing in waist-deep water on a beach near the southern New Zealand city of Invercargill on Monday, the Southland Times newspaper reported. 
Ward repeatedly hit the shark about the head until it let her go, prompting her mother to praise her calm reaction. “I couldn’t believe the lack of fuss. I would’ve been hysterically scream­ing but no, there was no screaming. She was just standing there looking a bit shaky,” the Southland Times reported her mother Fiona Ward as saying. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight saturday sunday 

IN BRIEF 
A Blood Drive will take place today from 9:30 a.m. to 3:30 
p.m. at Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. The drive will benefit the South Bend Medical Foundation. 
Part II of the Ten Years Hence Speaker Series: “The Ascent of Money” Panel Discussion will take place today from 10:40 a.m. to 12:10 
p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium at the Mendoza College of Business. The event is free and open to the public. 
A Student Ski Trip will take place today from 4:30 p.m. to 11 p.m. at the Swiss Valley Ski Resort in Jones, Mi. The cost is $30 per student with trans­portation and lift tickets included. Ski rental is extra. Register on RecRegister at recsports.nd.edu 
Ice Skating Night will take place tonight from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. at the Joyce Center hockey rink. The cost is $3 to skate and $2 for rental. 
The film “Hunger” will be shown Saturday at 6:30 p.m. in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The event is free but tickets are required. Call the ticket office at 574-631-2800 to reserve tickets. 
DanceFest 2010: “Bad Romance” will take place Saturday from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. at Washington Hall. Tickets are $5 and are available at the LaFortune Student Center.The event is open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
monday tuesday 

Atlanta 42 / 37 Boston 35 / 18 Chicago 34 / 27 Denver 47 / 31 Houston 63 / 41 Los Angeles 60 / 49 Minneapolis 31 / 23 New York 36 / 26 Philadelphia 38 / 29 Phoenix 70 / 51 Seattle 56 / 40 St. Louis 34 / 30 Tampa 74 / 57 Washington 36 / 31 

Friday, February 5, 2010 The Observer  NEWS page 3 




Battery recycling program collects 71 lbs 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
Battery recycling is a small way students can help the environ­ment, Dan Woods, compliance officer and creator of the battery recycling program at Saint Mary’s College, said. 
On Feb. 1, students received a campus-wide e-mail detailing the number of batteries that the pro­gram had collected throughout the 2009-2010 academic year. 
After years of individual stu­dents, faculty and staff members collecting and recycling batteries independently, Woods decided it was time to make a change. On Sept. 23, 2009, he started the first campus-wide recycling program for batteries. 
“The College never had a pro­gram for recycling batteries for­mally,” Woods said. “We found a need that enough people were asking about battery recycling that the College should have a program for battery recycling. It seemed to be if there was enough interest in batteries then a battery program would sort of take off.” 
Woods didn’t stop at just collect­ing and recycling rechargeable batteries though. He wanted to offer the option of alkaline battery recycling as well. According to Woods, alkaline batteries are commonly not recycled due to the lack of profit for battery recycling agencies. 
“We found with alkaline batter­ies it was perfectly legal to put them into the regular waste stream and then they would be taken to the landfill,” he said. “At Saint Mary’s, we wanted to go a little bit farther and keep all the batteries out of the landfill because there’s different haz­ardous metals, heavy metals that might get into the environment that may not be illegal to do so now but it just wasn’t a good practice.” 
Woods distributed five-gallon buckets in a variety of buildings around campus to act as drop-off sites for the used batteries. The program collects alkaline, rechargeable, button and nine-volt batteries and sends them to Batteries Plus, a local store, which sells new batteries and also collects used ones for recycling. 
Woods said he started working on the logistics of the program in 2008 but was unable to find a company willing to accept alka­line batteries for a low enough cost. In September 2008, Woods contacted the corporate office of Batteries Plus and inquired about alkaline recycling. 
“There was very few options as far as alkaline batteries for recy­cling,” Woods said. “I found sev­eral different vendors who could take my batteries. But then I thought, well, wouldn’t it be neat if Batteries Plus had a recycling program for alkaline batteries.” 
After the company began accepting alkalines, Woods set the program in motion by placing drop-off sites in nine buildings on campus. Woods said each month he collects and counts the amount of batteries that were dropped off. 

According to Woods, the first shipment of batteries that were sent to Batteries Plus contained 71 pounds, or 902 single use, rechargeable or button batteries. 
Woods said he hopes that the program will eventually be taken over by students. “One of my goals is for the stu­dents to take over the program because I think it’s a manageable recycling model that they can do while they’re here and they can see an immediate result of their efforts,” Woods said. 
He also extended an invitation for off-campus students to take part in the program. Woods said it was important to get involved and recycle to help the environ­ment. 
“Any thing you can do is better than doing nothing,” he said. 
Drop-off sites can be found in LeMans Hall lobby, Holy Cross Hall lobby, Regina Hall lobby, McCandless Hall lobby, the Student Center Information Desk, the IT Helpdesk, the Science Building, the Maintenance Building and in the Building Services Building. 
Woods said the program is cur­rently working on a Web site to track the progress of the pro­gram. With the Web site, students would be able to see first hand how their batteries would make a difference, he said. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@stmarys.edu 



Marketing club hosts ND alumni 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
Notre Dame alumni Kaylea Hoelscher and Todd Woodward will return to campus on Feb. 8 top share their experiences in the advertising profession at an event hosted by the Marketing Club. 
The Marketing Club hopes the event, titled the Advertising Career Forum, will “provide attendees an idea of what it takes to get into advertising by hearing the experiences of the speakers,” junior Lauren Elliott, vice president and head of promotions for the club, said. 
The “experiences” of the alumni are considerable. Hoelscher works for Leo Burnett, a major advertising company, and handles market­ing for Kellogg’s adult cereals. 
Woodward, now the Associate Vice President in the Office of Public Affairs and Communications at Notre Dame, has more than 20 years of experience in the industry which includes marketing for Harley-Davidson and contribut­ing to the extremely successful “Got Milk?” campaign. 


The Forum will include pre­sentations by the speakers con­centrating on getting into and excelling in the marketing industry followed by an oppor­tunity for students to ask ques­tions and network, Elliott said. 
The Marketing Club has been at Notre Dame for many years. In the past it was one of the larger student clubs, but mem­bership has declined in recent years. The club caters not only to declared marketing majors, but all students with an interest in the industry or contemplat­ing pursuing the major. 
“We’re hoping to make it one of those bigger clubs on cam­pus again,” Elliott said. “We want to reach first-year stu­dents especially,” since they are often uncertain if marketing is the career path best suited for them, she said. 
The club’s mission is to “give members a better understand­ing of what marketing is as well as a chance to meet experts in the field ... from there to build a better resume and progress in the field if you choose to pur­sue it,” Elliott said. 
Events on the horizon for the Marketing Club include the “Spread the Love for Haiti” charity event, running Feb. 8­11, a club bowling trip on Feb. 11 and a seminar on new forms of media on Feb. 24. 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 




Welsh Fam hosts DanceFest 

By COURTENAY DEVLIN 
News Writer 
This Friday and Saturday night, Washington Hall will be brimming with different styles of dance—from hip-hop to Irish Stepping — as Welsh Family Hall presents its annual signature event, DanceFest 2010. 
This year’s event is titled “Bad Romance,” which is a reference to the hit Lady Gaga song. 
The show, co-directed by Kaitlyn Mahoney and Sarah Grothaus, is bound to be unique and diverse with 
e i g h t  d i f f e r e n t  d a n c e  
groups performing  — The  
N o t r e  D a m e  D a n c e  

Company, Pom Squad, Ballet Folklorico, Troop ND, Irish Dance Team, Ballroom Dance Club, The Swing Club and The First Class Steppers. 
Along with these perform­ances, there will also be seven DanceFest Dances created specifically for the show. Prospective dancers —with different focus from ballet and tap, to jazz and hip-hop, attend­ed tryouts in Sept., and have practiced weekly throughout the year. 
“It’s a great opportunity for people who otherwise wouldn’t be able to dance because of their schedules, but who grew up dancing, and still want to express themselves in that way here at Notre Dame, ” Grothaus said. 
Claire Stephens, who is 
performing in the “Give It To Me” dance, is really excited to be on stage again. 
“I’m thrilled to be dancing again — being a freshman and still figur­ing things out, it was great to get a chance to do what I love and make new 
“It’s a great opportunity for people who otherwise would-n’t be able to dance because of their schedules...” 
Sarah Grothaus “Bad Romance” director 
friends, ” 
Stephens said. “The hip ­hop dance is definitely going to be awesome, and I can’t wait to be performing 
on stage with the bright lights, makeup and audi ­ence” 
Welsh Family ’s own Caitlin Cunningham, a freshman, is debuting on the sound board, and many other residents of the hall are supporting the event by being ushers and collecting fees at the door. The event, which will take place at 7 p.m., will cost $5 a person, with all proceeds going to the Robinson Community Learning Center ’s Shakespeare Company. 
Grothaus, who has just returned from a semester 
port the Company. 
a b r o a d  i n  
L  o n  d  o n  
w h e r e  s h e  

personally performed in the Globe Theatre, and who spent last summer working with local kids in the program said she is happy to be able to sup ­Shakespeare 
“It’s incredible to watch these kids grow and express themselves through theatre, ” Sarah said. “I learned so much from the kids that I really wanted to support the program.” 

Contact Courtenay Devlin at cdevlin@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 5, 2010 



Siegfried 
continued from page 1 
Regis and Kelly. That didn’t work out,” sophomore Peter Elliott said. 
Siegfried men split up the shifts throughout the day, and were stationed outside DeBartolo Hall, North and South Dining Halls and the LaFortune Student Center, Elliott said. 
“We have assigned com­missioners to various spots on campus to organize who will be there, ” Dean said. “Also, anybody that is willing to stand outside is more than welcome to col­lect money.” 


Choir 
continued from page 1 
Only a few members of the Saint Mary’s choir will be attending because it wasn’t required and not all of them could fit it into their sched­ules, Menk said. 
The choirs will first per­form “Lux Aeterna” by com­poser Morteu Lauridsen, and will be accompanied by an orchestra. 
During their time in New York, the members of the choir will have some time to explore the city. 
“Some of [Saint Mary’s] girls’ parents are coming so they are going out with their parents,” Menk said. 

The first official shift was at 9:30 a.m., and then throughout the day partici­pants in the fundraiser made announcements in class to ask for donations. The shifts went up to around dinnertime, Elliott said. 
Most Siegfried residents agreed that bracing the cold is well worth helping out those less fortunate. 
“I tell myself it’s not as cold as it actually is. I can deal with the cold for a good cause, ” sophomore Nick Valenti said. 
“It’s definitely worth it. A lot of my money has been raised by professors this year … It’s really not as bad as you think. Last year was much worse,” sophomore 
“There is a big reception, a dinner reception after the concert for everybody.” 
Menk has rehearsed with the high school choirs and said she was pleased with how well prepared they were since time is limited to rehearse when they are in New York. 
“We have nine hours of rehearsal in New York to sort of polish it, put it with the orchestra and every ­thing,” she said. 
Menk said she always enjoys performances in Carnegie Hall. 
“It’s a beautiful place with great acoustics,” she said. “Music sounds wonderful in there. And there is just a lot of history and tradition that make it really memorable.” 
She is also looking for ­Matthew Hentz said. 
Elliott said after partici­pating in the Day of Man, he has a new appreciation for what those who don’t own appropriate winter clothing must suffer through. 
“We only do this for one day but some people don’t even have that choice,” he said. “It’s really the thought that people can’t choose to live every day like this … [that] definitely makes real what cause we’re fighting for.” 
Dean said Siegfried hopes to reach $6,500 in dona ­tions. Donations will contin­ue to be accepted today in the Siegfried Hall Lobby. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 
ward to the age diversity of the choir. Since there are multiple choirs coming together, it will be a chal­lenge to have one voice. 
“It’s kind of nice that it is a multi-generational choir with high school students, college students and adults. It’s a nice mix of people,” Menk said. 
In the end, it is the history 
of the stage and feel she gets walking out onto it that Menk said she enjoys. 
“When you walk on the stage you feel the tradition of it all,” Menk said. “You know it ’s going to sound great and the concerts usu­ally sell out so you always have a nice audience.” 

Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 




Notre Dame Mag receives awards 
Special to The Observer 
Praise is comely for the upright, as the Psalmist and anyone on the staff of Notre Dame Magazine will tell you. 
The University of Notre Dame’s quarterly magazine received a surfeit of praise from a variety of quarters during the last year, and in expressing his satisfaction, its congenitally unassuming edi­tor, Kerry Temple, came as near as he is capable to a boast. 
“What’s really pleasing about the recognition is that it comes from different venues,” Temple said. “From our peers in higher education, from the world of Catholic publishing, and from those paying atten­tion to quality writing and website development in con­temporary America.” 
The magazine was named the top “general interest” magazine of 2009 by the Catholic Press Association (CPA). The CPA judges cited Notre Dame Magazine’s “gen­eral excellence” and its “range of articles that go from nitty gritty personal news of alumni to national politics as it connects to reli­gion and the university. The articles are well-written and well-reasoned and are con­tributed by people who exhib­it strong knowledge of their subjects. The magazine is nicely laid out and color reproduction is bright and excellent. All in all, the maga­zine is classy, informative and smart while adhering to its mission.” 
Notre Dame Magazine also won a Silver Medal “for over­all excellence” from the Council for the Advancement and Support of Education (CASE), the largest interna­tional association of educa­tion institutions, in the 2009 CASE competition. 
“The Signs of These Times,” an essay by Temple in a recent issue of Notre Dame Magazine was cited among the “Notable Essays of 2008” in Houghton Mifflin’s 2009 edition of “The Best American Essays.” 
A survey of 100 online col­lege magazines recently was conducted by GCF, a leading online marketing communica­tions firm. College juniors, seniors and alumni, asked to review online college and uni­versity magazines, ranked Notre Dame Magazine in the top five. 
Temple seemed particularly pleased to note that more than half the magazine’s pro­duction costs are met by vol­untary subscriptions. “The financial support and affirma­tion we get from our readers means we’re succeeding with them as well,” he said. 
Notre Dame Magazine reports on University events and activities, institutional trends and campus develop­ments. It also reports on Notre Dame’s people, history and scholarship. Each edition includes feature articles and essays on current affairs and societal trends, the arts and sciences, business, technolo­gy, family concerns and the Catholic Church. Its 150,000 subscribers include 100,000 Notre Dame alumni. 



she coaches basketball, vol-
ACE 

leyball and track and field in addition to teaching lan­
continued from page 1 

guage arts. 
“I have fallen in love with ty in Tucson provided the the community at Santa perfect setting for the Cruz,” she said. “The school inception of the first ACE maintains a strong Catholic Academies. and Mexican identity. The 
“It’s an incredible place, a community here has truly loving and car-embraced 
ing environ -me. I am 
ment for the “The sense of family at constantly ACE teachers, this school is unlike invited to and a great bi rthd ay
anything I have ever
way for them parties,
experienced. Everyone 
to serve the family par-school which is is excited about the ties, etc.” predominantly O ’ L e a r y
ACE Academies 
Latino,” said Tucson 
initiative.” 
Greene said. provid ed 
Kaitlyn the perfect O’Leary, a Kaitlyn O’Leary site for ACE Notre Dame to try out 
ACE teacher 
graduate who the new works at one program. 
of the ACE Academies in “The sense of family at Tucson in Santa Cruz, said this school is unlike any­thing I have ever experi ­enced. Everyone is excited about the ACE Academies initiative, as we think it will promote further excel­lence at our school and provide us with some resources that we are lack­ing,” she said. 
Dallavis said the ACE Academy idea originated from the extra help the pro­gram gave St. Adalbert’s, a Magnificat school in South Bend that serves a primari­ly Latino population. 
“The Notre Dame ACE Academy is an evolution of that academic help we gave to St. Adalbert’s, but the new model will also focus on things like budget, fund­raising, and hiring the school leaders,” Dallavis said. 
Contact Nora Kenney at hkenney@nd.edu 



World & Nation 
Friday, February 5, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 


British toast shatterproof pint glass 
LONDON — Soon Britons will be able to get smashed at the pub while their pint glasses won’t. 
The shatterproof pint glass was proudly unveiled by the government on Thursday. Officials swore the country would save bil­lions in health care costs by coming up with a glass that doesn’t double as a lethal weapon. 
But noticeably, no officials were talking about reforming the British binge drinking culture at the root of the problem. 
There are about 87,000 alcohol-related glass attacks each year, with many resulting in hospital visits, Home Secretary Alan Johnson said as he introduced the two proto­type shatterproof pint glasses. 

Mia Farrow criticizes Haiti adoptions 
GENEVA — UNICEF goodwill ambassador Mia Farrow has criticized as “deplorable” attempts to take children out of Haiti illegal­ly after last month’s devastating earthquake. 
The U.S. actress says groups or individuals who want to help Haiti’s children should rather support orphanages or their families inside the country. 
Farrow, who herself has adopted 11 chil­dren, says offering parents a better life for their children elsewhere is “completely unacceptable and immoral.” 
Adoption practices in Haiti are in the spot­light since a group of American missionaries was caught trying to smuggle Haitian chil­dren out of the country in the wake of the Jan. 12 quake. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Hearing for Obama’s aunt ends 
BOSTON — An immigration hearing for President Barack Obama’s African aunt ended Thursday without an immediate decision in her second bid for asylum in the United States. 
Kenya native Zeituni Onyango did not com­ment after testifying for about 2½ hours Thursday at the closed proceedings in U.S. Immigration Court. 
“The hearing went well. She was very hon­est. She was very to the point,” her lawyer, Margaret Wong, said afterward. 
Wong said Onyango is hopeful the judge will rule in her favor because “she really wants to stay in America.” 
Two doctors also testified in support of the case her lawyer said includes medical reasons to stay in the U.S. Wong declined afterward to discuss specifics before a judge’s decision. 

Pete Townshend defends himself 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. — The Who gave an energetic, acoustic preview of Sunday’s Super Bowl halftime show Thursday— but things turned serious when Pete Townshend defended himself against some children’s advocates who say he should not be per­forming. 
“I’ve been really saddened by it, and con­cerned about it. It’s an issue that’s very diffi­cult to deal with in sound bites,” the leg­endary guitarist said at an NFL news confer­ence dedicated to the Super Bowl’s enter­tainers, including Carrie Underwood and Queen Latifah. 
“I kind of feel like we’re all on the same side, I guess that’s all I can really say,” he said. 
LOCAL NEWS 


East Chicago mayor pleads not guilty 
HAMMOND, Ind. — East Chicago Mayor George Pabey (puh-BAY’) has pleaded not guilty to federal charges alleging that he used city workers and resources to upgrade a home he owns. 
Pabey and co -defendant Jose A. Camacho both pleaded not guilty Thursday before a U.S. magistrate in Hammond. 
The grand jury indictments announced Wednesday charge Pabey and Camacho with conspiring to divert city money and resources toward improving a Gary home Pabey owns with his daughter. 


The House approves new budget 
U.S. government adopts financial plan that will sink it $1.9 trillion deeper in debt 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — The House on Thursday voted to allow the government to go $1.9 trillion deeper in debt — an increase of about $6,000 more for every U.S. resident that provided a vivid election-year reminder of the nation’s perilous financial condition. 
The huge debt increase, approved 217-212, is only enough to keep the govern­ment afloat for about another year as it borrows more than 40 cents of every dollar it spends on programs like defense, health care, feeding the poor and protecting the environment. The budget tops $3.7 trillion this year and the deficit’s approaching $1.6 tril­lion under the budget submit­ted by President Barack Obama this week. 
The huge increase — to $14.3 trillion — in the cap on federal borrowing was designed by Democratic lead­ers to ensure that the rank and file won’t have to vote again to run up another increase before facing voters increasingly angry over gov­ernment spending and debt in the November midterm elec­tions. 
Already, the accumulated debt amounts to roughly $40,000 per person. 
“This debt is being piled on the backs of our kids and ure. So did every Republican, either cuts to other programs when we last had statutory grandkids with no relief in even though they routinely or equivalent tax increases. paygo, during the 1990s, we sight,” House Minority Leader supported prior increases in If the rules are broken, the turned deficits into surpluses,” John Boehner, R-Ohio, said. the borrowing cap when their White House budget office Obama said. “The passage of 
Economists warn that the party controlled Congress or would force automatic cuts to statutory paygo today will rapidly-rising debt could force when Republican George W. programs like Medicare, farm help usher out an era of irre­interest rates higher and, if Bush was president. subsidies and unemployment sponsibility and begin putting left unchecked, could have Senate approval last week insurance. Current rules lack the country back on a fiscally even worse consequences for on a party-line tally was only such teeth and commonly sustainable path.” the economy. possible because have been waived over the But Rep. Pete Sessions, R-
Passage of the bill sends it Massachusetts Republican past few years at a cost of Texas, said: “In place of real to Obama, who will sign it to Scott Brown had yet to about $1 trillion. fiscal discipline, it offers a avoid a first-ever, market-rat-assume office. Brown was Most other benefit pro-phony pay-as-you-go rule that tling default on U.S. obliga-being seated Thursday. grams — including Medicaid, is more loopholes and excep­tions. To help win passage, Social Security and food tions and does nothing to 
“I can’t think of a more Democrats also adopted — in stamps — would be exempt tackle our government’s long-reckless or irresponsible act. a 233-187 vote — budget from such cuts, leading term structural deficit.” Defaulting is not an option,” rules designed to curb a spi-Republicans to charge that Skeptics say lawmakers also said Rep. Jim McGovern, D-raling upward annual deficit, the new rules are just as will find ways around the new Mass. “If the United States projected by Obama to hit a weak. rules fairly easily. For exam-defaults, investors will lose record $1.56 trillion for the Obama issued a statement ple, Congress can declare confidence that the U.S. will budget year ending Sept. 30. praising passage of the statu-some spending an “emer­honor its debts in the future.” The new rules — known as tory pay-as-you-go rules, but gency” — a likely scenario for 
Thirty-seven Democrats, “paygo” — would require skipped any mention of the votes later this month to mostly from GOP-leaning dis-future spending increases or debt limit increase. extend jobless benefits for the tricts, voted against the meas-tax cuts to be paid for with “It is no coincidence that long-term unemployed. 

HAITI 


U.S. citizens charged with kidnapping 
Group leader Laura Silsby has said and smiled faintly to reporters but 
Associated Press 
they were trying to take orphans and declined to answer questions. 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti — Ten abandoned children to an orphanage Coq said that under Haiti’s legal members of a U.S. missionary group in the neighboring Dominican system, there won’t be an open trial, who said they were trying to rescue Republic. She acknowledged they but a judge will consider the evi­33 child victims of Haiti’s devastat-had not sought permission from dence and could render a verdict in ing earthquake were charged with Haitian officials, but said they just about three months. child kidnapping and criminal asso-meant to help victims of the quake. Coq said a Haitian prosecutor told ciation on Thursday, their lawyer The children taken from the group, him the Americans were charged said. ranging in age from 2 to 12, were because they had the children in 
Edwin Coq said after a court hear-being cared for at the Austrian-run their possession. No one from the ing that a judge found sufficient evi-SOS Children’s Village in Port-au-Haitian government could be dence to charge the Americans, who Prince on Wednesday. reached immediately for comment. were arrested Friday at Haiti’s bor-The U.S. citizens, most of them Each kidnapping count carries a der with the Dominican Republic. members of an Idaho-based church possible sentence of five to 15 years Coq attended Thursday’s hearing group, were whisked away from the in prison. Each criminal association and represents the entire group in closed court hearing to jail in Port-count has a potential sentence of Haiti. au-Prince, the capital. Silsby waved three to nine years. 

page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, February 5, 2010 
Rome 
continued from page 1 
tonight at 5 p.m. in Bond Hall. 
“The organizing principle of the colloquium is to take an interdisciplinary look at Notre Dame’s relationship to Rome,” multimedia coor­dinator Karen Voss said. 
The colloquium will assemble scholars from the School of Architecture, the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures, the Department of English, the Department of Art, Art History and Design and the Department of History. 
“The urbanity of Rome shows the students that all aspects of the city happen together,” Professor Samir Younes said. “The city business” is what truly cre­ates an experience of well-rounded education, Younes said. 

Professors Joseph Buttigieg of the Department of English and Ted Cachey 
of the Department of Romance Languages and Literatures plan to use their presentation, titled “All Roads Lead To Rome,” to focus on an emerging proj­ect called Interdisciplinary Italian Studies. 
“The idea of the project is to bring together scholars whose work in some way or another is concerned with Italy,” Buttigieg said. “And we have found that the range of interest spans a broad range of depart ­ments.” 
This program is also 

designed to contribute to the interna ­tionalization 
brings people “The city brings of Notre and disciplines Dame, he 
people and
together said. Annual 
disciplines together
because the seminars in city is every-because the city is Rome for thing.” everything.” scholars will 
In her be sponsored keynote by the 
Samir Younes 
address, University Rowland will Professor begi nning focus on her School of Architecture next summer, 
introduction on the value of Rome in the lives of schol­ars both in ancient times and today. 
“Living in a city with buildings from the lives of people who lived years ago, we are able to see more philosophically how short the amount of time we live but also how long our reach is past our lives,” Rowland said. 
She said interdisciplinary study means being able to work more adequately as an architect. 
“If you are a good archi­tect, you are paying atten­tion to human beings,” Rowland said. “And the more you know about human beings the better you can meet their needs.” 
Professor Robin Rhodes described the city as a “crossroads indebted to many other cultures through commerce and con­quest.” 
“As an archeologist, I rely on people of many different disciplines,” Rhodes said. “We need not only field techniques but also the art and the architecture and the history and the lan ­guages and the literature of a given culture in order to interpret the objects being found on a dig.” 
The combination of all the arts and humanities present in Rome as “everybody’s and the proj­

ect will invite post-doctorate and visiting scholars to spend time on Notre Dame’s campus. 
The eventual hope for the project is the establishment of a humanities center in Rome, Buttigieg said. While no actual plans for this forum have been made, one goal of the colloquium is to determine the dynamic of interdisciplinary study in the Eternal City. 
“Another key part of this project is the initiative with the support of different fac­ulty members and of the University to improve the resources regarding Rome in the library,” Buttigieg said. 
The product of Interdisciplinary Italian Studies would be “a model for collaborative research” based on a city that is an important source for education in general, he said. 
Buttigieg described the city as “layered,” a compila­tion of wide-ranging eras of history and a place for interesting study of contem­porary issues such as immi­gration as well as antiquity. 
“Rome is our history,” Buttigieg said. “The legacy 
of this city is still what shapes our humanities.” 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 

BOT 
continued from page 1 
She cited the 1997 creation of the Core Council as an example of the University’s attempt to be more accepting of gay and les­bian students. 
The Core Council “serves pas­toral and resource needs” for gay and lesbian members of the community, but student govern­ment hopes to address “policy issues,” Weber said. 
Student Senate recently passed a two-part resolution to address these policy issues. 
The resolution proposed establishing a task force under the leadership of the Office of Student Affairs composed of members of the Core Council, the Gender Relations Center, student government, faculty and other campus organizations. 
It also encouraged the admin­istration to add sexual orienta­tion to the University’s non-dis­crimination clause. Weber said student government researched non-discrimination clauses at other Catholic universities and found that they remained loyal to Church teaching while provid­ing protection for gay and les­bian members of the communi­ty. 
“It is the unanimous opinion” of the Student Senate that both changing the University’s non­discrimination policy and creat­ing a task force are necessary to make progress on accepting gay and lesbian students, faculty, and staff, Weber said. 
Dissolution of Economics and Policy Studies 
Students are concerned by College of Arts and Letters Dean John McGreevy’s lack of trans­parency as he moves to dissolve the Department of Economics and Policy Studies, student gov­ernment chief of staff Ryan Brellenthin said. 
“The decisions were made without student input and the process was not revealed to the student body,” Brellenthin said. 
“It was almost as if they were hoping students weren’t paying attention,” he said. 
Students are concerned that closing the department will nar­row the economics education at Notre Dame, Brellenthin said. They are also concerned that this decision sets a precedent that students will be excluded from future academic decisions. 
“Very little attention has been focused on the 400 students who are economics majors,” Brellenthin said. “No efforts have been made to engage stu­dent opinion on the topic.” 
Schmidt said he is an econom­ics major, but he first heard about the plans to dissolve the department from The Observer. 
“We weren’t told about it,” Schmidt said. 
The dissolution of Economics and Policy Studies will be voted on at the next meeting of the Academic Council, Brellenthin, who is one of the four students who serve on the academic council, said. “We can make statements against the dissolu­tion, and we certainly will, but it has been on the agenda to dis­solve before we could put it on the agenda to discuss,” he said. 
Brellenthin said faculty mem­bers are also concerned about the dissolution of the depart­ment. 
“They are asking what will happen if professors who teach something that isn’t the main­stream theory are pushed out,” he said. 
“The fear is that the academic council is just going to be a rub­ber stamp” on McGreevy’s deci­sion to dissolve the department, Schmidt said. 

One trustee expressed her surprise after Weber ranked the dissolution of the department as the second most critical issue for students, but the issue is about students’ wanting to be respect­ed, according to Brellenthin. 
Brellenthin cited reports that McGreevy described the dissolu­tion of the department as “too sensitive an issue for debate.” 
“We respect the administra­tion and the professors as top-tier educators, but we want to be respected as top-tier stu­dents,” Brellenthin said. 
Task Force on Supporting the Choice for Life 
After the debate about the choice of President Barack Obama as the 2009 Commencement speaker because of his pro-choice stance, “student government tried to take leadership,” Weber said. 
Weber commended University President Fr. John Jenkins’ cre­ation of the Task Force on Supporting the Choice for Life last year, but said more students should be members of the task force. 
“There is only one student on the task force,” she said. 
The student on the task force is not officially responsible to any “University-recognized stu­dent leadership organizations” or to “existing and traditional student groups” that support pro-life causes, Weber said. 
Weber commended the University for prioritizing the issue, but said it should become a larger priority. 
“It’s a human rights issue that should become a part of all aspects of University culture,” Weber said. 
Other issues addressed with BOT 
 Students are concerned the Notre Dame Forum was not held during the 2009-2010 academic year, Schmidt said. 
“It has become an annual event, and there are a multitude of issues that students want to talk about in a formal way,” he said. 
 Student government is hopeful that the agenda.nd.edu calendar is redesigned by the beginning of the Fall 2010 semester, Brellenthin said. The initial date for redesigning the calendar was set for Jan. 29, but the calendar is still under con­struction. 
“We are hopeful that that date stays on track,” Schmidt said. 
 Schmidt said students want to be a part of the Commencement speaker selec­tion process. 
“Given the recent controversy, it’s a simple and realistic request to ask that there be a student representative in this decision,” he said. 
He suggested the student body president and the senior class president as students who should be a part of the Commencement speaker selec­tion process. 
 Pep rallies should be more student-friendly, Schmidt said. This year, “students did not go to pep rallies,” he said. “Students will not go to Irish Green.” 
He suggested moving pep ral­lies to Purcell Pavillion and increasing the involvement of Hall Presidents Council in plan­ning the rallies. 
The Irish Green pep rallies were “very commercialized,” Schmidt said. Students are look­ing for an environment that is “loud, where people are bounc­ing up and down,” he said. 
Schmidt urged the members of the Board to consider student government’s positions during their meeting this week. 
“We encouraged you to advo­cate for us if these are issues you are passionate about,” he said. 


Contact John Tierney at jtierne1@nd.edu 


The Observer 




Business

Friday, February 5, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Judges rule on MySpace suspensions 
PHILADELPHIA — Federal appellate judges wrestling with whether schools can discipline students for Internet speech posted offsite reached different rulings Thursday in two Pennsylvania cases. 
One 3rd U.S. Circuit Court panel upheld the suspension of a Schuylkill County eighth-grad­er who posted sexually explicit material along with her principal's photograph on a fake MySpace page. 
However, a different three-judge panel said that school officials in Mercer County cannot reach into a family's home and police the Internet. That case also involves a MySpace parody of a principal created by a student at home. 
And, in dissent, a judge in the first case said his colleagues were broadening the school's authority and improperly censoring students. 
"This holding vests school officials with dan­gerously overbroad censorship discretion," Judge Michael Chagares wrote in refusing to uphold the March 2007 suspension of a Blue Mountain Middle School student. "Neither the Supreme Court nor this Court has ever allowed schools to punish students for off-campus speech that is not school sponsored and that caused no substantial disruption at school." 

Ford fixes brake problem in hybrids 
DETROIT — Ford Motor Co. plans to fix 17,600 Mercury Milan and Ford Fusion gas-electric hybrids because of a software problem that can give drivers the impression that the brakes have failed. 
The automaker says the problem occurs in transition between two braking systems and at no time are drivers without brakes. 
The decision to fix the 2010 model cars came after a test driver for Consumer Reports maga­zine experienced the problem as he was driving a Fusion Hybrid. 
Ford spokesman Said Deep says braking power seems to drop away as the car makes a transition from regenerative brakes to the con­ventional system. The Ford hybrids have regen­erative brakes, which capture energy from braking to help recharge the battery, in addi­tion to a conventional system that stops the car using hydraulic pressure. 


Cleaning products come clean 
Environmental group Earth Justice pushes to discover ingredients of household products 
Associated Press  
NEW YORK — It’s the  
mystery under the kitchen  
sink.  
Exactly what’s in floor  
cleaner? What’s stain  
remover made of? And what  
effects, if any, might they  
have on human health or  
the environment?  
Environmental advocates  
want to know, and they  
asked a court Thursday to  
use a 1971 New York state  
law to force such manufac­ 
turers as Procter & Gamble  
and Colgate-Palmolive to  
reveal just what makes up  
such household staples as  
Ajax, Ivory soap and Tide.  
The cleanser industry —  
which recently ramped up  
voluntary efforts to unveil  
product ingredients — says  
that the legal case is unwar­ 
ranted, and that fears about  
health risks are misin­ 
formed.  
But groups including the  
American Lung Association  
and the Sierra Club want the  
public to know more.  
Members “want access to  
the information so they can  
determine the kind of chem­ 
icals that they are introduc­ 
ing into their homes and  
whether there are any risks AP  
associated with them,” Keri The environmental group Earth Justice, who is suing top cleaning brands to come clean about  
Powell, an attorney for the their products, arranges cleaning products Woolite, Tide, and Ajax on Feb. 4 in New York.  
environmental firm  
Earthjustice, told a state  cleaning product compo- information for hundreds of  and vague — some compo- 
judge at a hearing Thursday.  nents to asthma, antibiotic  cleaning products, drawn  nents can be listed simply as  
A victory in the New York  resistance, hormone  from data gathered for  “fragrance” or “dye,” for  
case would require compa­ changes and other health  industrial use.  instance.  
nies to report their contents  problems. The industry’s  Cleanser industry groups  “We must be careful about  
only to the state. But the  major trade group, the Soap  unveiled their own ingredi­ exposures for all household  
advocates hope it will fuel  and Detergent Association,  ent-listing initiative last  chemicals,” said Joseph A.  
nationwide reform of regu­ assails the research as  month, offering information  Gardella Jr., a Sierra Club  
lations on chemicals in  flawed, says the products  on participating manufac­ member from Buffalo.  
cleaners and other products.  are safe if used correctly  turers’ Web sites. New York- The activists say only reg- 
The case comes amid  and notes that cleaning can  based Colgate-Palmolive Co.,  ulation can insure full dis- 
growing concerns about  itself help stop the spread of  Cincinnati-based Procter &  closure, and they hope the  
potential toxins lurking in  disease.  Gamble Co. and several  New York law can serve as a  
consumer goods, from the  Federal environmental  other industry heavyweights  model.  
heavy metal cadmium in  laws don’t require most  are participating.  The law and subsequent  
jewelry to the chemical  household cleaning products  “We think we’ve done it in  regulations authorized the  
bisphenol A in baby bottles.  to list their ingredients,  a meaningful way that pro­ state Department of  
While lawyers argued the  though there are congres­ vides more information than  Environmental Conservation  
cleaning-products case in  sional proposals to change  ever before,” Soap and  to make manufacturers  
New York, a Senate subcom­ that. The Consumer Product  Detergent Association  detail household cleaning  
mittee in Washington held a  Safety Commission requires  spokesman Brian Sansoni  products’ ingredients, as  
hearing to examine current  hazard warning labels on  said.  well as any company-led  
science on the public’s expo- some cleansers, and the  Environmental advocates  research on the products’  
sure to toxic chemicals.  National Institutes of Health  welcome the disclosures but  health and environmental  
Some studies have linked  offer some health and safety  say they are too selective  effects.  


Dissolvable tobacco may appeal to kids 
Associated Press ing, given the brightly colored packag-potential accidental nicotine poison­
ing, candy-like appearance and easily ing. 
RICHMOND, Va. — The Food and concealable size of many of these Regulators also want a summary of Drug Administration is saying in let-products,” Dr. Lawrence Deyton, user demographics, including at what ters to two tobacco companies that director of the Center for Tobacco age “tobacco-naive consumers” start flavored, dissolvable tobacco products Products, told the companies. using the products. 
— that the agency compares with Deyton said regulators are worried The products are available in few candy and says contain a lot of nico-the products’ nicotine content and markets and account for a small tine — could be particularly appealing rapid dissolution could cause nicotine share of the tobacco industry. to kids and young adults. dependence and addiction and be Star Scientific, based in Petersburg, 
The FDA’s Center for Tobacco especially dangerous to children and Va., markets its Ariva and Stonewall Products wrote to R.J. Reynolds young adults. tablets in wintergreen, coffee and Tobacco Co., maker of Camel ciga-He asked the two best known mak-tobacco flavors. The first versions rettes, and the smaller Star Scientific ers of dissolvable tobacco products to appeared about nine years ago. Inc. on Monday voicing concern over provide their research and marketing R.J. Reynolds, which is owned by smokeless products that are con-information on how people under age Reynolds American Inc. in Winston­sumed like breath mints but made 26 perceive and use the products. Salem, N.C., is test-marketing dissolv­from finely milled tobacco. Exercising new power to regulate able tablets, strips and a toothpick 
“CTP is concerned that children and tobacco that the FDA was granted in shape under the names Camel Orbs, adolescents may find dissolvable June, Deyton also requested research Camel Strips and Camel Sticks in mint tobacco products particularly appeal-on misuse of the products, including and other flavors. 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 

page 8 Friday, February 5, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
The Independent, Daily Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 


MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 


ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Joseph McMahon Jared Jedick Molly Madden Allan Joseph Carly Landon John Helms Graphics Viewpoint Jaclyn Espinoza Michelle Maitz Scene Adriana Pratt 



Unplug your digital life support during Lent 
As the countdown marches towards Ash Wednesday, a lonely Friday remains free for practicing Catholics to eat meat before the start of Lent. The longstanding religious ritual prepares the faithful to better focus on the sacrifi­cial meaning of Easter by, in fact, personally sacrificing. Countless times during my youth, I watched my father build a huge ham or roast beef sandwich blanketed with pepperoni slices on Friday evenings around 11:30 p.m. — ultimately biting into his meaty delight well before the midnight deadline. He could rationalize that he hadn’t eaten meat after 11 p.m. the night before, so he fulfilled his obli­gation of fasting for a full 24 hours. Gary Caruso After all, God surely accepts his heart’s 

Capitol
intentions over any technical stroke of midnight. Comments 
Each year Lent seems to stealthily sneak up on the cal­endar while we still languish in the deep frozen throws of winter. And each year Lent catches many of us unpre­pared to designate our personally individual sacrifices beyond the universal abstention from meat on Fridays. This year, I suggest that we — especially students on cam­pus as well as the twenty-somethings who recently gradu­ated and are now working in real jobs with their real-life morning commutes along side their real-life coworkers — attempt to pull the plug on our digital dependences for 40 days. 
Recognizing the positives of communicating with BFFs on Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter and other social network­ing venues, consider the 40-day break a retreat into the desert sand dunes or at a mountaintop monastery. Returning back to the days of personal face-to-face inter­actions may just be a pleasant surprise, not to mention how it will hone one’s skill to actually make new friends or learn how to better speak with people of various back­grounds and experiences. For me, the perfect example existed during my commute to work while waiting at the Washington, D.C. Metro bus stop No. 1393 on 14th Street. 
Most mornings since I first adopted this bus route, near­ly everyone — young and old, skilled worker or profes­sional, male and female — at my bus shelter and along the nearby stops of my bus route has been wired with iPods, cellular phones or both. Some appear to have escaped from a futuristic science fiction hospital with dig­ital intravenous lines emanating from their veins. Others have attempted to juggle two devices in the right hand while sipping coffee from the left hand. However, all of 
them have shut themselves off from making a new friend, 
hearing a compliment or engaging in an interesting con­
versation. 
For example, months ago when I first used the bus for my daily commute, I stood alongside a commuter who remarkably resembles the Scottish actor, Sean Biggerstaff. Biggerstaff is best known for playing Oliver Wood, the Gryffindor Quidditch team captain and “keep­er” in the Harry Potter series who acts like a taskmaster during practice and incessantly harangues Potter to catch the Golden Snitch, even if Potter plunges off his Firebolt broom from the sky. Respecting that my neighbor was lis­tening to his iPod while texting on his phone, I waited for another day to tell him of his resemblance to Biggerstaff. For months, we both stood together while he texted and listened to his music until one day he finally arrived with­out the iPod. Finally, while he intently texted, I asked, “No iPod today?” 
He made no reply, so I repeated the question. Turning away, he curtly answered, “No,” as though I had annoyed him. It is ironic that he seemed to act exactly like his lookalike Oliver Wood character — focused almost to the extent of obsession, probably a nice person but lacking in interpersonal tact. On that day I would not discover his background or interests, political affiliation, if he attend­ed one of Notre Dame’s rival schools, whether he had a dog that could play with mine or anything about his per­sonality and humor. For an outgoing person like me, it was a possible friendship denied. 
The Lenten season need not be the catalyst to curtail one’s digital addictions in favor of more face-to-face per­sonal interaction. Religion, too, need not be the excuse to adjust one’s behavior merely for a limited period. Regardless of one’s individual universe — the scholastic campus or real life world — every moment offers an opportunity to change a life, including your own. For one never knows when a neighbor may approach a bus stop and open a conversation by saying in an imitation Scottish brogue, “But you, Harry, are a seeker!” 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
A natural orientation 
While there is no sensible reason for Notre Dame not selves with judging a person’s responsible private sexual to include sexual orientation in its non-discrimination activity. clause, certainly everyone can understand from where Sexuality is but another biological and psychological the underlying prejudice stems. Until religion gives up dimension of the human species. To declare homosexual its monopoly on sexuality, LGBT students at a deeply behaviors as deviant is to deny the reality that homosex­
religious school like Notre Dame (and LGBT persons everywhere) will not receive the respect they deserve. However, together as a university, as thoughtful, intelli­gent people, we can overcome this antiquated intoler­ance. 
We should not have to consider LGBT students as living an alternative lifestyle any more than those students who eat at North Dining Hall. Whether one thinks it’s a choice or not, it’s something that has no more potential to be right or wrong than where one eats dinner. 
Furthermore, someone being LGBT has no more effect on others than someone being heterosexual. While all of us know the potential consequences of sexual overindul­gence and can expect all people to exercise some sort of self-discipline, the uninvolved should not concern them-
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“He who postpones the hour ofliving rightly is like the rustic whowaits for the river to run out before he crosses.” 
Horace Roman poet and satirist 
uality is no less natural than heterosexuality, just as dark skin is no less natural than light skin, blue eyes than brown, red hair than blonde. None of these charac­teristics has any moral value, and neither does sexuality. As such, for the University to reserve the right to dis­criminate based on this characteristic is unsound (not to mention wrong). Notre Dame should add sexual orienta­tion to its non-discrimination clause once and for all. It is shameful that a community this bright has not done so already. 
Andy Hills 
sophomore Carroll Hall Feb. 4 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Make visible what, without you, might perhaps never have been seen.” 
Robert Bresson French film director 

The Observer 




Viewpoint 

Friday, February 5, 2010 page 9 
In memoriam: Ralph McInerny 
Dr. Ralph McInerny, Notre Dame Professor of Philosophy, scholar, poet, writer, publisher, critic, family man and friend passed away this past Friday at the age of 80. 
Over a 55-year career at Our Thomas Bounds Lady’s University, he wrote nearly 150 books, 

The Notre Dame 
including a New 

They Know 
York Times best­seller and a mys­tery series later adapted for NBC; taught thousands of students; directed more dissertations than any academic in Notre Dame’s history; developed friendships in legion and managed to inspire, offend or impress just about everyone he encountered. 
He has been and will continue to be eulogized well by his closest friends and fellow academics. One should explore these pieces — the Internet is a good place to start — to learn more of this man imbued with “an angel’s wit and singular learning.” 
However, as he last officially taught a course at Notre Dame in the fall of 2006, his influence has thinned among the student population to whom he devoted much of his efforts. 
Please permit me, then, to share a bit of my own experience with this gracious man. While my interaction with him was limited, three aspects of his person stand out in memory: Ralph was inspiring, he was funny and he knew fully the joys and sorrows of life. 
He told me a story once about the legendary Notre Dame English Professor Frank O’Malley. 
“He would take some of his students over to the University Club,” Ralph explained, “and would very nearly get them (and himself) drunk. Then, standing up, he would orate forcefully on the outstanding talents of these young men, on the way in which each would go on to make a difference in the world. These boys were nothing special, of course, but they stumbled home thinking they were. And, by golly, some of them did something about it.” 
This same spirit animated Ralph. By official count, he ranks among the top 10 Professors in the United States for number of Philosophy dissertations directed. He frequently taught Directed Readings courses at the request of students in addition to his regular teaching demands. Always, the emphasis lay on the ability of the student to come to knowledge through the use of his or her own intellect properly oriented towards the Truth. 
As former student and now Loyola Marymount Professor Christopher Kaczor wrote recently, “He called forth the best from us by seeing it in us before we did.” 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Harmless hobby or Satan praise? 
As a Catholic member of this institution, I am very surprised that The Observer prints a daily horoscope. The Catechism of the Catholic Church clearly states that all forms of divination are to be rejected: Recourse to Satan or demons, conjuring up the dead or other practices falsely supposed to ‘unveil’ the future. Consulting horoscopes, astrology and recourse to mediums all conceal a desire for power over time ... They contradict the honor, respect and loving fear that we owe to God alone? 
In my opinion, reading your daily horoscope can been seen as a sort of “gateway drug” into the dangerous world of fortune telling. It only takes a seemingly ‘harmless thing like this for the devil to get a toehold on you. You may think that the horoscope is just fun or amusing, but really it’s a dangerous demon tool that is offensive to God. And so I beg you readers of Observer, beware! Do not tempt yourself by reading your horoscope or before long the devil will ensnare you with his demonic witchcraft! 
Matt Brown 
sophomore Knott Hall Feb. 4 
Ralph was also, to give the simile its literal force, funny as hell. 
He was concerned primarily for the Catholic Church, especially that great body of inspired truth given it by St. Thomas Aquinas. The issues to which he devoted his work were thus serious matters indeed, but always, always with an air to the humorous, “the only test of gravity,” as Aristotle observed. 
I asked him once — in those quaint pre-Obama days — about Fr. Jenkins’ decision regarding the Monologues. 
He jumped back without missing a beat: “He turned a pornography play into World War III and spent six months trying to solve a problem his mother could have figured out in five minutes.” 
His life was devoted in love to his wife Connie and their seven children. The loss of his three-year-old first­born, Michael, in 1957 and of his wife, Connie, in 2002 marked the two great tragedies of his own life. 
Once, after a group dinner at the Morris Inn, he asked the waitress for a box to take the rest of his meal home. “For tomorrow night,” he explained. One could tell he missed his bride. 
Yet through it all he maintained that indefatigable joie de vivre. “Wherever the Catholic Sun doth shine / There’s always laughter and good red wine,” from a poem by Hilaire Belloc, were favorite lines of his. I asked him once last year about the Gospel teaching that husband and wife are not mar­ried in heaven. 
He faced me with a smile and responded, “We romantics know bet­ter.” 
I had the opportunity to sit down with Professor McInerny a few times over the past couple of years. Now he reclines in memory: rounded brown tortoise shell glasses over a face punc­tuated by a Newport cigarette, tweed jacket with a button-down shirt, khaki pants crossed at the knee. 
He is no longer with us, but, as Marvin O’Connell eulogized in a mas­terful homily earlier this week, “We can hedge our bets that Ralph rests now in the bosom of Abraham.” 
In paradisum, deducant te Angeli … 
Tom is a Senior at Notre Dame. He recommends that you read “I Alone Have Escaped to Tell You,” the delightful autobiography of Ralph McInerny. He also recommends seeking out his book of poetry, “The Soul of Wit,” and turning to his poem entitled “Necking.” Amidst the shock and laughter, you’ll have to smile. Tom can be contacted at tbounds@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 


Thankful for Howard Zinn 
Dear Mr. Brendan O’Reilly, 
Your critique of the legacy of Howard Zinn was almost as biased and selective as you claim the writings of the late historian were. You say that Zinn’s ‘A People’s History’ constantly presents battles between the brave and courageous proletariat and that most ubiquitous of villains, the evil white male. And you’re right, because that is a reoccurring theme in his book, just like it is in American history. 
Zinn (who is, by the way, a white male) chronicled the plight of black slaves ruled by white landowners, women fighting for suffrage against extreme male resistance and laborers striking for decent working conditions from those ‘rich, elite’ business owners. Our nation has not been perfect — far from it. From the Trail of Tears to the the lynching era to the Vietnam War, huge injustices have been committed by elected officials and regular civilians. But glossing over these historical facts does not mean they didn’t happen, and it doesn’t allow us to take any lessons from them. Zinn’s take on American history is not revisionist or dis­honest — it is finally a history told from a perspective other than that of the winner’s. 
I think that you read ‘A People’s History’ as a condemnation of America, and I will not disagree that Zinn takes issue with and protests many instances in our past. However, what you failed to recognize in your review are all of the stories of those who resisted and fought against injustice, bigotry and inequality. For every chapter on racial discrimination there was a Rosa Parks, and for every tale of political corrup­tion, there were corresponding stories of politicians who inspired and were trusted and for all of these stories we should be thankful there was Howard Zinn, who didn’t shy away from the ugly just like he didn’t cover up the good. I hope that you will reread ‘A People’s History’ with a less criti­
cal eye  and  see  what  a  service Zinn has  
done.  
Lucia Geglio  
junior  
Farley Hall  
Feb. 4  




Son of a Pitch 
I had not realized how far we, as an American society, had fallen until I read the responses to the question of the day on Monday, Feb. 1. 
Reading the responses to the question of “What infomercial product would you be?” was nothing less than disheartening and quite depressing. A mop. A weight-loss pro­gram. Sham-wow. How quickly we have all forgotten the man who could actually make Americans sit there, look at the product being pitched and say, “Wow, I could use this. No, I need this!” But wait, there’s more! 
The epitome of products that have ever been pitched wa sn’t even mentioned: OxiClean! I for one, whenever I hear the word oxygen, am reminded of the awesome power that this detergent harnesses in just one scoop. It makes your whites whiter, your brights brighter! Whene ver I see someone wearing a blue-collared shirt, with a full black beard and a smile that would make even my roommate smile (his nick­name is Eeyore,) I remember and give thanks for having had the privilege to have seen such a visage and hear such a heart­warming “Hi” while watching TV. 
So here’s to you, Billy Mays! Not everyone has forgotten you, and if I were an infomer­cial produ ct, I would be proud to be OxiClean, with a second bucket of me dis­tributed free if people call now. 
Matt Roe 
sophomore Morrissey Manor Feb. 4 
The Observer 




Scene

page 10 Friday, February 5, 2010 

By NICK ANDERSON 
Scene Writer 

Ten years ago, the word indie meant something. Contrary to popular belief, indie is not a style, sound or genre. Indie meant one thing: Independent label. Today, calling a band “indie” says there are two gui­tars, some poppy melodies and a thousand other bands that sound exactly like it. Almost all of the “indie” bands you listen to, be it Spoon, the Arctic Monkeys, Clap Your Hands Say Yeah, or the latest blo­gosphere darlings are in some way connected to Warner, EMI, So or Universal. Che out Paste mag ­zine’s excellen piece on the ris and fall of in music if you wan a better under­standing of the history. 
As indie bands rapidly become a thing of the pas indie labels are following in their footsteps. The lat­est label to call it quits is the semi­formed under the watchful eye of El-P, a New York-based producer and recording artist, to combat the exact problem we’re likely to see again soon. Major labels had bought up much of the industry talent and were pushing for over-commercialized albums. While Jux and other indie labels couldn’t compete with the large paychecks, they could offer artistic freedom. 

nal  rap  labe  
Definitive  Jux  
Records.  Jux  

El-P played the game damn near perfect. He was already one of the most innovative producers working, and managed to create a roster of artists with mixed established fan bases and emerging talent. Strong sales and tours from underground names like Aesop Rock, The Perceptionists and RJD2 allowed newcom­uch as Cannibal Ox and RS to find a sound thout heavy industrial 
essure. 
Between 2001 and 
007, Definitive Jux was­
t the loudest voice in 
p hop, but it was the 
ost important. 
eginning with Cannibal 
x’s stone-cold classic 
The Cold Vein,” ending 
with El-P’s “I’ll Sleep 
When You’re Dead” and 
ncluding Aesop Rock’s 
Bazooka Tooth” as well 
as MURS’ “MURS 3:16,” 
Jux could do no wrong. 
hose six years, there 
e upwards of 10 mas-
pieces put out by the 
label. 
Yesterday’s announcement was not surprising. Rumors have been circulating for the past year con­cerning the inevitable death of Jux. In 2008 and 2009, there were a total of two albums released, one from label freshman but industry veteran Del the Funky Homosapien. The press release confirmed the future release of one more album, the late Camu Tao’s “King of Hearts” but gave no more insight into the future of the other artists. Jux’s hiatus will no doubt see the emigration of the majority of its roster. 
In his message to fans, “Of Hooptys and Hovercrafts,” El-P admits the troubles of a traditional label. Beyond its struggle to continue to make a steady income, EL-P points to a personal drifting away from making music as the turning point in his decision. Of course, Jux always served as an extension of El-P, and couldn’t operate in his absence, but the continued rise of music piracy and the ditching of labels by industry leaders Radiohead and Nine Inch Nails have caused label profits to fall even as artists’ pockets fatten. 
Jux continues to do the best it can for its loyalist fans, keeping their Web site running, providing some show support and continuing to print the back cata­logue. There’s no doubt the bigger orphaned talent will find new labels to support their music habit; less­er names may be left out in the cold. For fans of indie hip hop, Rhymesayers continues to market in intelli­gent Midwest rap, but Stone’s Throw has largely floundered without the late Jay Dilla. It’s a dark day for music, one best accompanied by a moody EL-P track. 
Contact Nick Anderson at nanders5@nd.edu 




By COURTNEY COX 
Scene Writer 
The show begins each week with a slow reading of, “What would YOU like to do before you die?” The concept is uni­versal, at some point every­one will die; yet it remains up to each individual to make the most of the time they are given. “The Buried Life” fol­lows four individuals in their mid-20s trying to do just this. Ben, the leader of the group, felt that it was important to give their lives direction. Pretty darn existential for an MTV show. As a team they created a list of 100 things to do collectively and the show simply follows them as they try to accomplish what they want most out of life. 
The first episode featured the group attempting to sneak into the Playboy Mansion. Of course they managed to find the most dif­ficult way to go about doing this. Two of the four manage to do this only because they were willing to sit inside of a cake for seven hours dressed 
as oompa loompas. This may isn’t that not have been a smart choice for a first episode simply because it would appear that not many women would like to sneak into the Playboy Mansion. In fact women could probably enter dressed as noth­ing (or in nothing) in particu­lar. This episode may not have showcased the best aspects of the project, but it still gave viewers the general idea. 
The Playboy Mansion fiasco was then followed by the boys making a toast and ask­ing out the girl of their dreams, Megan Fox. This was not necessarily the most orig­inal choice for “the girl of your dreams” but to each his own. The main problem with Ben choosing Megan Fox as the girl of his dreams is that it showed nothing about the guys in the show. It would have been much more mean­ingful had one of them cho­sen a girl from their past. Wishful thinking. 
The interesting thing about “The Buried Life” is that it isn’t just a show. It is most accurately described as a project. These four bros have been attempting to fulfill their wildest dreams since 2006. This would definitely make it difficult to complete task 11, get a college degree, 
but honestly 99/100 bad. 

The best part of the entire project is the fact that for each thing they complete on their list, they help someone else do something they want to do in their life. Everyone they talk to has an amazing story and the fact that they were able to help people they just met is so powerful. While it is compelling to watch these four guys do some of the craziest things ever, it is even more fascinating to see them help with the most basic goals. 
In the first episode the group raises money by per­forming on the street to help provide a poor school with a working computer. They went to the school to simply talk with the kids about following their dreams and setting goals for things to do before they die, and they came back the next day with a brand new Apple desktop computer. The reactions of the little kids were priceless. They all started screaming and it was the most triumphant moment of the show. 
The real reason to watch the show is not to see a bunch of 20-something men goof off; it’s to see the sin­cere reactions of the people they help. As far as MTV shows are concerned, “The Buried Life” goes beyond what may be expected from the network that brought you “The Jersey Shore.” 

Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 


page 2 The Observer  ELECTION 2010 Friday, February 5, 2010 


Catherine Soler president vice president Andrew Bell 

Who They Are 
Presidential candidate Soler, a sophomore from Farley Hall, is an accounting major and vice presi­dential candidate Bell is a sopho­more business major from Knott Hall. Soler is currently sophomore class president and Bell serves on Student Senate. 
In Their Words 
 Top Priority: Soler and Bell plan on creating a rental program for textbooks in the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
“You will be able to rent bigger textbooks for $40 instead of buying them for $100 and selling them back for $30,” Soler said. 
 First Priority: The ticket hopes to hold a block party in Eddy Street Commons to unite the outside com­munity, off-campus students and students living on campus. 
“We see Eddy Street Commons as the first step off campus,” Bell said. 
In Our Words 
 Best Idea: Revamping the DeBartolo lounge. Although they said a café cannot be added to the building, Soler and Bell hope to refurbish the current lounge near the computer lab to make it more comfortable for students by adding healthier vending options and pos­sibly a coffee machine. 
 Worst Idea: Creating a hall alcohol commissioner whose 


“Commonground. 
responsibility is to be an informed resource in the dorm for students to approach about these issues and also to contact in case of an emer­gency. The Resident Assistants in each dormitory are already trained 


Uncommonvision.” 
to do this job, so the creation of a commissioner seems redundant. 
 Most Feasible: Instating a rental textbook program in the Bookstore. Follett already offers this program to 27 colleges and universities, and the ticket has already had discussions on the topic with officials from Follett and the Bookstore. Since the program already exists, the duo’s only chal­lenge is bringing it to Notre Dame. 
 Least Feasible: Instating The Good Samaritan Policy or a medical amnesty policy for students helping others in dangerous situations involving alcohol. Past student gov­ernment administrations have worked to create a change like The Good Samaritan Policy but have not been successful. 
 Fun Facts: Soler is a proud vegetarian but says she has a weakness for chocolate and Bell is a big fan of attending Drummer’s Circle. 
 Notable Quote: “We have a lot of food initiatives on our platform.” 
— Soler 
Bottom Line 
Soler and Bell demonstrate well-researched ideas that will benefit the student body. Most are simple enough to achieve, like the Eddy Street Commons block party, but some are broad and vague, such as the work they plan to do with the Office of Drug and Alcohol Education and their hunger initia­tive. They have also said they will continue the weekend Transpo route — a popular initiative to come out of this year’s administra­tion. 

Peter Ledet president 
Who They Are 
Zahm’s perennial farcical ticket is headed this year by freshmen Peter Ledet and Gabe Alvare. While most of the student body has already written the dynamic duo off, Ledet said he wants peo­ple to know that he’s “serial” about student government. 
“We want to bring good things to campus,” he said. “Power to the people.” 
In Their Words 
 Top Priority: Ledet and Alvare said they would like to create a feudal caste system upon taking office, whereby all Notre Dame students would be divided into four classes — serfs, warriors, nobles and kings. Alvare said he and Ledet would rule over this sys­tem as emperor and vice emperor from their royal tree house. 
“We need our own little secluded place where we can do things,” Alvare said. “And of course, no girls allowed.” 
 First Priority: Ledet and Alvare said they would like to start a program to get more students involved in extracurricular activi­ties in order to boost morale around campus. Alvare said he would like to use the Golden Dome as the symbolic rallying point for this initiative. 
“We want people to come here and say, ‘I love Notre Dame. That Dome was awesome,’” he said. 
In our words 
 Best idea: Abolishing Student Senate and replacing it with the Knights of the Round Table. 
 Worst idea: Mandatory week­ly weigh-ins for all Notre Dame female students at the “Flirty Girl 
vice president Gabe Alvare 
Fitness center,” which would replace Stepan Center. While find­ing new uses for Stepan should be encouraged, Ledet and Alvare’s idea is sexist and insensitive. 
 Most feasible idea: None 
 Least feasible idea: The placement of 18-foot-tall milk chocolate statues of themselves and cultural icons around campus, which the candidates claim would be eco-friendly and provide a food source for hungry animals. 
 Fun Facts: Both Ledet and Alvare showed up for the inter­view wearing high top Nikes, which they said were worn to show The Observer that their fash­ion sense far surpasses that of the other candidates. They also said they have significant experience with the University’s alcohol assessment program. 
 Quote: “It’s dark, scary and they make you wear funny cos­tumes to put on musicals,” Ledet, talking about his experience at alcohol assessment. 
Bottom Line 
While Ledet and Alvare really have no chance of winning, the candidates do provide a nice break from the usual uptightness of stu­dent government. The one major issue that should actually be of concern to the student body is that the pair frequently crosses the line from funny to offensive, and many of their ideas are extremely sexist. While candidates running on a “joke” platform aren’t very harm­ful and can actually be quite funny, the student body president elec­tion should not be turned into a forum for people to voice offensive ideas, even if they are only meant as jokes. 


“Wewantpeopletocomehereandsay, ‘IloveNotreDame. ThatDomewasawesome.’” 


Friday, February 5, 2010 The Observer  ELECTION 2010 page 3 
Eras Noel president 
vice president Julian Corona 

Who They Are 
Junior Eras Noel lives in Siegfried Hall and is majoring in Mechanical Engineering and Industrial Design. Noel’s vice presi­dential candidate, Julian Corona, is a junior Electrical and Mechanical Engineering major. He lives in St. Edwards Hall. 
In Their Words: 
 Top Priority: A series called “Perspectives,” where a professor will lead a discussion with students in his area of expertise about a topic of the week, or topic of the month. 
“We’ll talk about gay marriage, abortion, the death penalty,” Noel said. “It helps us to grow as a stu­dent community and as individu­als.” 
 First Priority: The ticket wants to get the Flex Points system instat­ed at Eddy Street Commons. They have already spoken with the owner of Five Guys and have meet­ings scheduled with Food Services. 
In Our Words: 
 Best Idea: Hot Grab-and-Go options. Noel wants students to be able to go into the dining hall and fill a box with food. “Two sides, and then main platter,” Noel said. “And that would cost maybe five of your seven Grab and Go points and then you’d have two left over for water or a snack or food.” 
 Worst Idea: While allowing flex points to be used in Eddy Street would appeal to students, it is not feasible. But the ticket has cited this platform as a main focus of the campaign. 
 Most Feasible: The idea for the “Perspectives” series would be most feasible because increasing intellectual debate on campus is already a concern of some admin­istrators and faculty. “Perspectives” would need minimal help from the University to get accomplished, and they shouldn’t have a problem get­ting the support they need. 
 Least Feasible: Installing the Flex Points system at Eddy Street Commons is a great idea in theory but coordinating the monetary transfer between the University and the businesses in Eddy Street Commons would be difficult. Past student government administra­tions have tried this without suc­cess. 
 Fun Facts: Noel was a mem­ber of the football team when they won the Hawaii Bowl in 2008. 
 Notable Quote: “If you see something that needs to be changed and you have the oppor­tunity to change it, then you should take advantage of the opportunity,” Noel said, on why he wants to run for student body president. 
Bottom Line 
Noel and Corona have a grasp of what the student body wants, and what it needs. Flex points at Eddy Street Commons and Hot Grab n’ Go options would be immensely popular if accomplished. Noel and Corona seem to have clear goals and the drive to accomplish these goals, but the lack of experience in student government may hinder them. Also, the duo only has three platforms listed on their site, some­thing they should work to expand. 
“A New Perspective.” 
JACLYN ESPINOZA | Observer Graphic 

page 4 The Observer • ELECTION 2010 Friday, February 5, 2010 
The Observer endorses Soler-Bell ticket 
After interviewing the three tickets running for student body president and vice presi­dent, The Observer Editorial Board endorses sophomores Catherine Soler and Andrew Bell. 
The Soler-Bell platform offers the student body several exciting opportunities for improving student life and safety, as well as community relations. Their most feasible initiative, implementing a text­book rental system in the Bookstore, is not original: Follett has piloted such a pro­gram at more than 20 other colleges and universities. However, because the rental system functions at other schools, The Observer has high hopes that Soler-Bell can make the program a reality at Notre Dame. 
One of the reasons for this rental system, besides saving at a restaurant with Soler-Bell: the ticket also wants to hold a block party at Eddy Street Commons to bring the commu­nity together. This would be a beneficial opportunity to utilize the new “college town” as a place of interaction and get to know our South Bend neigh­bors. Their proposed “Good Neighbor” series could help students living off campus be better neighbors and make a positive impact on their neigh­borhoods. 
Their initiative to revamp the DeBartolo lounge also shows promise and is something that would be appreciated by the majority of the student body. 
Safety on and off campus is a concern with Soler-Bell, and they’ve demonstrated their dedication to student safety in their meetings with Notre Dame Security Police. Their primary concern regarding safety seems to be center on alcohol consumption. While this is one side of student health and safety, preventing violence toward students and keeping students physically safe on and off campus is an important and crucial issue for Notre Dame students, especial­ly in light of recent assaults. The Observer would hope Soler-Bell would make this a top priority, and think of new ways to help keep students safe. 
Soler-Bell’s experience in student government — Soler is currently sophomore class president and Bell serves on Student Senate — will allow them an easy transition to the offices of student body presi­dent and vice president. Their initiatives are thoroughly researched and can make a positive impact on the Notre Dame community. 
money, is to “save the environ­ment,” Soler told The Observer. This isn’t the only altruistic thing on their platform — Soler-Bell said they would con­tinue the efforts of current stu­dent body president Grant Schmidt and vice president Cynthia Weber to get the stu­dent body involved in “some­thing bigger.” Soler and Bell’s intellectual issues. These can­didates also focus on improv­ing Grab ‘n Go and extending Flex Point use off campus, both of which are important but less feasible goals. 
The Soler-Bell platform like­wise addresses food conven­iences as several of their ideas involve student meal plans and food options. They’ve done 
idea is an initia-
their research on tive to fight global the possibilities of hunger. While this off-campus dis-pitch is lofty and counts, and their vague, it is an idea to solicit and admirable effort. publicize dis-Junior candi-counts available dates Eras Noel with a Notre 
and Julian Corona also have an initiative to unite the student body in a common purpose with their “Perspectives” series, which, if successful, would prompt debate and discussion among students and faculty about 
Dame student ID card would provide more stu­dent business for local mer­chants while encouraging stu­dents to interact with the com­munity and contribute to the local economy. 
The interaction wouldn’t stop 

THE OBSERVER’S TAKE 
COMMUNITY 
ON THE ISSUES OF THE 
STUDENT LIFE STUDENT SAFETY RELATABILITY 
RELATIONS 
2010 ELECTION 


Their campaign features a 

They hope to offer a rental 
block party at Eddy Street 
textbook system in the Hammes 
Commons and a South Bend 
Notre Dame Bookstore and 
street fair for students and 
revamp the DeBartolo lounge.
community members. 
Soler & Bell 
The duo has vowed to contin­ue the weekend Transpo route to ensure safe transportation off campus and they want to work with the Office of Drug and Alcohol Education to offer students solutions in dangerous situations involving alcohol. 
Soler and Bell are veteran members of student govern­ment but seem to have a good grasp on what the student body wants and needs. 



Ledet and Alvare hope to The ticket assures the student 
They want to build a tree 
lower alcohol violations by body they are “super serial” 
house for males to go and drink 
They don’t address this forming a University-sponsored candidates but their self-pro­
juice boxes and eat lunchables,
issue in their platform. alcohol assessment in which claimed titles of emperor and 
only of the pizza and nacho 
students are supplied with alco-vice emperor are somewhat 
variety. 
hol to test their limits. condescending. 
Ledet & Alvare 


They do not address com­munity relations in their campaign platform, but their “Prospectives” proposal will create dialogue between professors and students out­side of the classroom. 

Noel & Corona 
Noel and Alvare said they will 
The ticket pledges to work to 
work with Notre Dame Security 
create a system where students 
Police and local law enforce-
could use flex points in Eddy 
ment to foster a safer commu-
Street Commons. 
nity for students. 
Noel and Corona are running with the slogan, “A New Perspective.” As outsiders, they have the opportunity to bring fresh ideas to student govern­ment. 

OBSERVER SOLER SOLER SOLER NOEL PICK: BELL BELL BELL CORONA 

The Observer 
Scene

Friday, February 5, 2010 page 11 




By SHANE STEINBERG 
Scene Writer 
A few years back I heard a story about a mysterious occurrence in Japan that was tied to a film once slated for release but immediately banned after only a couple of test screenings. I never learned the name of the film nor do I know any details about its plot, but what’s important about this particu­lar film is the rather perplex­ing, or horrifying to be more precise, effect that it had on some members of the few audiences unlucky enough to see it. For you see, as I was told, following the film there happened a string of suicides that were committed largely without clear motives. The individuals who took their own lives were then somehow linked back to being mem­bers of that same test audi­ence, which then raised alarms about the film. It’s unclear just how much of an effect the film actually had on those individuals or the oth­ers who saw it and then admitted to suffering from depression and/or thoughts of suicide afterwards, and until recently, I always thought it rather foolish that a mere film could have that kind of impact on a person. I don’t know what was in that film that so dramatically scarred those individuals and then propelled them to commit the unspeakable acts that they committed, and until recently it never really made any sense. 
Lars von Trier’s bare-as­bones, free-fall into the con­fines of human suffering and madness, “Antichrist,” is the film that finally opened my eyes to the true visceral power of film—its naked abil­ity to at once unnerve an audience, abandon it, get under the skin and stay there, and then tear at one’s insides until the mind and soul can’t take it and all that’s left are scars of an ulti­mately terrifying experience. This is the first film I’ve ever seen that I will not only rec­ommend but near implore you not to see. You either won’t understand it (which is the best-case scenario), walk out in disgust, or worst of all, get sucked into it to the point that you feel it going on in and around you, until, at a certain point, it becomes too much to bare. 
For those of you who have seen this film or who’ve heard the rather grand tales about it, I will caution you right now by saying these words: ejaculated blood and severed clitoris. This is no “Saw,” and I don’t think it necessary to explain the obvi­ous reasons why, but at sec­ond glance, it’s not the gore that will unnerve you here. From my own experience I might never for the life of me explain what I felt the first time I saw this film in that small cramped theater, and I won’t because I don’t want to revisit it, but I know that some part of me not as a crit­ic but as a human being was left broken by what I saw. 
“Antichrist” is entirely von Trier’s story. The product of its admittedly then-chronical­ly depressed filmmaker, the film is the tale of a couple, He and She, who tragically lose their son one night when he falls to his death out of an open window as the couple has sex in the other room. It’s the themes of sex, as violent and downright disgusting as it gets, and loss, the land­scape on which this film is set, that go on to dictate much of the film’s four chap­ters which chronicle loss and how we deal with it. But where the film truly takes its dive is at an unnamed, almost unidentifiable point, where suddenly the co-stars (Charlotte Gainsbourg and Willem Dafoe) begin to give their entire selves unto von Trier’s uncompromisingly and unapologetically bleak view of human nature. It’s Gainsbourg though who goes way beyond where any actress should, capturing the true essence of suffering, and it’s through her performance that von Trier pushes forth not only the film’s brilliance but the essence of what makes this trip into Eden so unbearable. 
To explain “Antichrist” is to take a trip back to Eden that opens up wounds on the self, better left alone. To under­stand “Antichrist” is a trip in and of itself, for the film, especially towards its end, takes a turn for the utterly perplexing. To see “Antichrist”— to actually see it and not merely watch it — is an experience better left for only those truly able and brave enough to understand von Trier as he projects him­self in this film. For all else, it is an experience best left not experienced. 
I once heard someone say that the best way to keep from feeling both the worst and the best of what life throws your way is to “don’t play it for real, until it gets real.” “Antichrist” is a night­mare of a film. It’s the kind of film that crosses over into the very rare and almost uncharted territory of being truly affecting art — art that at once will (if you play it for real) unnerve and bewilder you and, at its end, leave you utterly broken. 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu 

“Antichrist” 
Directed By: Lars von Trier Writer: Lars von Trier Release Date: May 20, 2009 Starring: Willem Dafoe, Charlotte Gainsbourg 

JACLYN ESPINOZA | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Friday, February 5, 2010 
NFL 

NFLPA chief claims 2011 lockout inevitable 
Associated Press 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. — The question to DeMaurice Smith was simple, coming from Cincinnati receiver Chad Ochocinco, asking how serious he viewed the possibility of football not being played in 2011. 
Smith did not hesitate. 
“On a scale of 1 to 10,” Smith said Thursday, “it’s a 14.” 
With that, the executive director of the NFL Players Association painted perhaps the bleakest pic­ture yet regarding prospects of labor strife in the league, which could be looking at a 2010 season with no salary cap and, if the col­lective bargaining agreement expires as scheduled in March 2011, a lockout that year. 
“I keep coming back to an eco­nomic model in America that is unparalleled,” said Smith, who often repeated phrases for empha­sis. “And that makes it incredibly difficult to then come to players and say, on average, each of you needs to take a $340,000 pay cut to save the National Football League. Tough sell. Tough sell.” 
Smith said the NFL would receive $5 billion from its network television deals even if no games are played in 2011. He regarded that as proof owners are prepar­ing for a lockout. 
“Has any one of the prior deals included $5 billion to not play foot­ball?” Smith asked, referring to previous contracts that were extended or redone. “The answer’s no.” 
Some of Smith’s nearly hour-long question-and-answer session during Super Bowl week was spent reiterating past claims, such as team values increasing “almost 500 percent” over the last 15 years. There was also a call to have all 32 NFL teams open their books to show who was losing money and how much. 
Smith also said he wanted teams to contribute what, ulti­mately, would be millions into what he called “a legacy fund” that would better support retired players. 
Most of his focus, however, was on getting a new CBA. 
“I really and truly in my heart believe we’ll get a deal done,” NFLPA president Kevin Mawae said. “But there’s going to have to be some give and some take and not just taking from one side all the way.” 
The league’s response, in part, said that teams like the Green Bay Packers— whose audited financial statements are the only ones the union said it has seen — have had a 40 percent decline in profits. 
“In most businesses, that would be a serious cause for concern,” said Jeff Pash, the NFL’s executive vice president and chief counsel. 
“It would indicate a serious issue that has to be dealt with. You look at your single largest expense, which is player costs.” 
Indianapolis quarterback Peyton Manning(notes), whom the Colts are planning to soon give a new contract that would make him the league’s highest-paid player, acknowledged that he has con­cerns. 
“I think as a player, I feel we have a pretty good thing going right now in the NFL,” Manning said Thursday. “It would a shame for something to have to change along those lines. I understand kind of like when a player is hold­ing out or a player contract, there is a business side of this that can be tough. It is not always pretty.” 
Smith said the latest NFL offer to the players would reduce their share to 41 percent of applied rev­enues from about 59 percent. He emphasized that the teams take $1 billion off the top of the esti­mated $8 billion the league gener­ates. 
Pash argued that the $1 billion reflects actual costs incurred, money “invested in things like NFL Network, NFL.com, putting games on overseas, all of which is intend­ed to and has in fact had the effect of generating substantial addition­al revenues, 50 percent of which go to NFL players. And the union knows that’s true, because the union has absolute rights to audit those expenses.” 
Echoing NFL commissioner Roger Goodell, Pash said Smith’s assertion that players are being asked to accept an 18 percent pay cut—the $340,000 per-player­average figure—was among the “misrepresentations of what our proposal is.” 
“We have never said it would result in players having to take a reduction,” Pash said. “The entire point here is to generate a pool of resources to have continued investment and continued growth, which would lead to higher salaries and benefits for players.” 
For now, some players say they’re bracing for issues. Mawae said he even has recommended players save 25 percent of their salary next season “in the event of a lockout,” though he noted “we can’t make all 1,900 players save their money.” 
“We’ve told them, `Don’t go out and buy a new boat. Don’t go out and buy a new car. Pay off what­ever debts you have,’ ” said Jeff Saturday of the Indianapolis Colts. “These are things we’ve been learning from history.” 
Smith and Mawae said that if next season goes forward with no salary cap, it would be highly unlikely to have a new CBA with a cap reinstated. 
“Virtually impossible,” Smith said. 
NBA 
Dunleavy resigns as coach 
Associated Press 
LOS ANGELES — Mike Dunleavy stepped down as the Los Angeles Clippers’ head coach Thursday, retaining his job as general manager. 
Assistant coach Kim Hughes will be the interim replacement for Dunleavy, who has led the Clippers to just one winning season since taking over the star-crossed franchise in 2003. 
The Clippers abruptly announced the moves in an afternoon news release, say­ing the decision was volun­tary and mutual. Los Angeles (21-28) has lost five of six heading into Saturday ’s home game against San Antonio, with another once-promising sea­son in danger of slipping away. 
“It just seems clear that the team needs a fresh voice, and we hope that our play­ers will respond in a positive way,” Clippers president Andy Roeser said in a state­ment. 
Despite a talented roster including Baron Davis, Chris Kaman, Eric Gordon and Marcus Camby, the Clippers are in 12th place in the Western Conference. Los Angeles dropped a season-worst seven games under .500 with six losses on a just-completed eight-game road trip. 
Perhaps the Clippers Curse has a bit to do with it as well: Blake Griffin, the No. 1 overall pick 

in last sum -“It just seems clear that ing the mer’s draft, Clipp ers,
the team needs a fresh 
will miss the and has 
voice, and we hope our
entire season been a after breaking players will respond in scout in 
his kneecap in a positive manner.” Denver and Los Angeles’ Milwaukee. final preseason Dunleavy game. Andy Roeser was 215 ­
D u n l e a v y, Clippers president 325 in 61/2 Dunleavy, who added GM duties to his coaching responsibilities in 2008. “We fully expect to be active and productive on all those fronts.” 
Hughes, a former ABA and NBA player who has never been a head coach, has been Dunleavy’s assistant since the start in Los Angeles. He spent several years on the Nugg ets’ bench before join-
who said he had “several conversations” recently with owner Donald Sterling about the Clippers’ direction, is the winningest coach in franchise history— admittedly not a high bar to clear on a team with just two winning seasons in 30 years and only one playoff series victory since moving to Los Angeles in 1984. 
“I’ve come to the conclu­sion that this is the ideal time for me to direct my efforts toward the many per­sonnel opportunities that lie before us, such as the trade market, the draft and the free agent process,” said seasons on 
the bench, 
and Los Angeles made the playoffs just once in his first six sea­sons, getting within one game of the Western Conference finals in 2006. The Clippers haven’t been back to the playoffs since, winning just 42 games in the past two seasons. 
Dunleavy played for Philadelphia, Houston, San Antonio and Milwaukee dur­ing his career, but the Brooklyn native’s entire coaching career has been downhill from his debut sea­son with the Los Angeles Lakers in 1990-91, when he reached the NBA finals. After just two seasons with the Lakers, he coached four losing seasons in Milwaukee before a moderately success­ful four-season run with the Portland Trail Blazers. 
After hiring Dunleavy in 2003, the much-criticized Sterling showed consider­able patience, extending the coach’s contract through 2011 after that sole playoff run—and even sticking with him through the Clippers’ 19-63 misery of a 2008-09 season. 
Dunleavy’s record as a per­sonnel executive is actually fairly solid, which made his failures as the Clippers’ coach even more glaring. He replaced Elgin Baylor as the Clippers’ top basketball executive before last season, uprooting Baylor from a job he had held since 1986. 
Despite adding Rasual Butler and Craig Smith to a well-stocked roster that still should have ample salary cap space to sign a major free agent this summer, the Clippers have struggled even to reach .500 this season. 
“As we approach the trade deadline, the NBA draft and the upcoming free agent period, our team is very well-positioned from a salary cap standpoint,” Roeser said. “Mike’s experienced input will be vitally important as we continue to develop our young talented nucleus and shape our team’s future.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? I love Benjamin Luft. Harry: “Yeah I called her up, she “This sticker is dangerous and ——————————————— gave me a bunch of crap about me inconvenient, but I do love FigFOR SALE FOR RENT Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has Cameron Houk, make that 95% a not listening to her, or something, I Newtons.” many resources in place to assist 100%. don’t know, I wasn't really paying ——————————————— gradrentals.viewwork.com you. ——————————————— attention.” “Dear 8 pounds 6 ounces...new COONHOUND MIX: ——————————————— “As you know I have always been ——————————————— born infant Jesus, don't even know If you or someone you love needs more afraid of a peace offer than of “Last time I looked in the dictionary, a word yet.” Free to good home. confidential support or assistance, an air raid.” my name’s Ron Burgundy. What’s ———————————————PERSONAL please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 ——————————————— your name?” “Have you ever wondered if there 8mths, neutured, trained, all shots. or Ann Firth at 1-2685. JP, I really hope you got that paper ——————————————— was more to life, other than being 
If you or someone you care about done. “Old man, I'm gonna come at you really, really, ridiculously good Healthy, intelligent, energetic. has been sexually assaulted, we For more information, visit ND's ——————————————— like a spider monkey!” looking?” Needs dedicated owner. can help. For more information, visit web site: “I can press when there needs to be ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Notre Dame's website: pressed; I can hold hands when “I’m just a big hairy American win-“Your voice is like a combination of (574)234-5707 http.csap.nd.edu http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu there needs to be — hold hands.” ning machine, you know?” Fergie and Jesus.” ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Friday, February 5, 2010 
page 13 

NCAA Division I Women’s Basketball RPI 
team previous 
1 Conneticut 1 2 Oklahoma 3 3 Maryland 2 4 Louisville 4 5 Stanford 10 6 Baylor 6 7 Duke 5 8 Texas A&M 7 9 Auburn 8 10 Florida State 12 11 Tennessee 9 12 Ohio State 13 13 North Carolina 11 14 Iowa State 14 15 Rutgers 16 16 NOTRE DAME 17 17 Purdue 15 18 California 28 19 LSU 27 20 Virginia 20 21 Arizona State 19 22 Florida 30 23 Texas 21 24 Vanderbilt 18 25 South Dakota State 25 
ITA Division I Women’s Tennis Rankings 
team previous 
1 Duke 1 2 Northwestern 2 3 California 4 4 Georgia 3 5 Baylor 6 6 NOTRE DAME 5 7 Miami (Fla.) 7 8 Florida 14 9 USC 9 10 Georgia Tech 8 11 Tennessee 10 12 UCLA 12 13 Stanford 13 14 Clemson 11 15 Florida State 19 16 Fresno State 16 17 South Carolina 17 18 North Carolina 20 19 Arkansas 15 20 Michigan 18 21 Mississippi 21 22 Vanderbilt 22 23 SMU 23 24 Washington NR 25 Alabama NR 


around the dial 
NBA 
Nuggets at Lakers 
10:30 p.m., ESPN 
NHL 

Coyotes at Blackhawks 8 p.m., CSN 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

NCAA discusses expanding from 65-team field 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. — The NCAA has met with conference commissioners, university presidents and athletic directors about the possibility of expanding the men’s basketball tourna­ment. 
So far it’s slow going. The NCAA started talking about expansion in the fall, along with numerous top­ics in all 88 champi­onships, and hasn’t gotten past the discussion stage. 
“It’s still a work in progress, so there’s no fur­ther developments or sta­tus from (the fall),” NCAA senior vice president Greg Shaheen said. “It’s just a series of ongoing dialogues with interested parties, but nothing definitive to even analyze at this point.” 
It certainly hasn’t stopped the conversation. 
Many coaches and administrators like the idea of expansion and believe its a necessary step to accommodate a growing game. There are more teams than ever — 347 in Division I — more depth in the bigger conferences and more talent at the mid-major level. 
Whether it’s increasing the tournament field to 68 (four play-in games instead of one) or enveloping the NIT to make it a 96-team field, more teams are bound to add up to more excitement, the thinking goes. 
“If you’re talking about adding more teams, I don’t think the games would change a bit,” Texas Tech coach Pat Knight said. “They’d be just as competi­tive and I think you’d see more Cinderella stories, more teams people didn’t think had a chance and there’d be a lot more upsets if the NCAA expand­ed the tournament.” 
Another argument is that a larger field would give teams from smaller confer­ences a better chance of getting in. Giving automat­ic bids to the regular-sea­son and conference tour­nament champions would reward consistency while still allowing for surprise. 
“That would add more relevance to the regular season, instead of just hav­ing big games being brack­et busters and things like that,” Duke coach Mike Krzyzewski said. “I could see it going to 96, but if they do, I would like to see the regular season champs rewarded. That would give the conferences who don’t get more than one bid a chance to have two bids.” 
In the current format, 18 percent of the teams get into the NCAA tournament and another 9 percent receive invites to the NIT. By comparison, 53 percent of NHL and NBA teams get into the playoffs, 37 per­cent in the NFL and 26 percent in baseball. 
IN BRIEF 
Kobe Bryant misses practicebecause of sore ankle 
EL SEGUNDO, Calif. — Kobe Bryant has skipped practice with the Los Angeles Lakers to rest his sore left ankle. 
The Lakers will wait until game time Friday night to decide whether Bryant will play against the Denver Nuggets. 
Bryant received treatment on his ankle Thursday after aggravating his injury during Wednesday night’s vic­tory over Charlotte when teammate Lamar Odom stepped on his foot. Bryant originally sprained his ankle in Philadelphia last week. 
Bryant scored a season-low five points on 2-for-12 shooting against the Bobcats. 
He has been bothered by injuries throughout the season, most notably breaking a finger on his shooting hand. Yet Bryant, the NBA’s fourth-leading scorer, still hasn’t missed a game. 
Tomlinson beleives he’s finished as a Charger 
SAN DIEGO — LaDainian Tomlinson says he believes he has played his last game in a San Diego Charger uniform. 
The running back told The San Diego Union-Tribune on Thursday that he has thought for a while he would be let go by the Chargers. 
His comments come after more than a month of saying he did not know what would happen. 
The NFL’s most valuable player in 2006 has two years remaining on his contract. He is due a $2 million roster bonus March 5 and would be paid $5 million in total salary in 2010. 
Tomlinson tells the newspaper he doesn’t know when the Chargers will release him and that his agent, Tom Condon, might call the club to expe­dite the process. 
Tomlinson has become one of the most beloved athletes in San Diego history during a nine-year career. 
Source: Mariners, Bedard closing in on a deal 
SEATTLE — A person with knowl­edge of the negotiations tells The Associated Press that the Seattle Mariners and left-handed pitcher Erik Bedard are getting close to a one-year contract, pending a physi­cal. 
The person spoke on condition of anonymity Thursday to the AP. To this point, the Mariners have remained silent on the issue, and have made no public announcment of a deal. 
The former Baltimore Orioles ace has been in his native Canada reha­bilitating from surgery in August to repair a torn labrum in his pitching shoulder. 
Mariners trainer Rick Griffin said last week that the 30-year-old Bedard felt good while throwing. Griffin said Bedard has three-to-five months left of rehabilitation before he would be back at full strength. 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, February 5, 2010 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Edwards leaves UF for Bills’ DC position 
Associated Press 
BUFFALO, N.Y. — George Edwards’ tenure as the Florida Gators defensive coor­dinator sure didn’t last long. 
Less than a month after joining Urban Meyer’s staff, Edwards left one of the nation’s top college programs Thursday to become the Buffalo Bills‘ defensive coordi­nator, reunit­ing him with newly hired 

“I feel like this is a
head coach nose (tackle), Chan Gailey. great opportunity for but I could “I feel like adapt to that. 
me to come in and have
this is a great But I don’t 
a chance to work with
opportunity want to,” for me to come coach Gailey again.” Stroud said in and have a last month as chance to Bills players 
George Edwards 
work with cleaned out 
Bills defensive coordinator
coach Gailey their lockers a 
again,” Edwards said in a release issued by the Bills. “I am excited to have the opportuni­ty to come to Buffalo and look forward to getting started as quickly as possible.” 
Edwards has 19 years of coaching experience, includ­ing 12 in the NFL. He broke into the NFL with Dallas in 1998 as a linebackers coach as part of Gailey’s first staff. 
Edwards’ abrupt about-face came 27 days after he was hired by Florida, and a day after the Gators unveiled what most recruiting analysts rated as the top recruiting class in the country. 
With Meyer beginning a leave of absence, team spokesman Steve McClain said interim coach Steve Addazio will coordinate replacing Edwards. 
Florida could promote Chuck Heater, who was named the team’s co-defense last season. 
Personnel will be a question as Buffalo’s defensive line is relatively undersized and lacks a true run-stuffing nose tackle, a key part of a 3-4 scheme. 
Defensive tackle Marcus Stroud previously expressed concerns about how he would 
fit in a 3-4 
scheme. 
“I can’t play 

“I can’t play nose 
defensive coor-reach a deci­dinator when (tackle), but I could sion within Edwards was the next 
adapt to that. But I 
hired last month. 
don’t want to.” 
month. Schobel said 
Al though he’s put his Edwards had Marcus Stroud Buffalo-area been at Florida home up for 
Bills defensive tackle 
day after clos­
ing the season 
with a 6-10 record. Stroud added that he’s open to playing any scheme so long as he’s on the field. 
Stroud is at least familiar with Edwards, who was the defensive line coach at Georgia in 1997 during Stroud’s freshman season. 
The move to a 3-4 likely would lead to defensive end Aaron Maybin making the switch to linebacker, a posi­tion better suited for his 6­foot-4, 250 -pound frame. Used mostly as a backup defensive end last season, the rookie first-round draft pick struggled against heftier offensive linemen. 
Another question is the sta­tus of the Bills’ leading pass-rusher, Aaron Schobel, who continues to contemplate retirement. Schobel told The Associated Press on Thursday that he’s still weighing his 
options and hopes to 
for four weeks, he wasn’t very involved in the team’s recruit­ing efforts that brought in three of the top defensive linemen in the country. 
Gailey touted Edwards for bringing “a wealth of experi­ence,” and for his familiarity with numerous defensive schemes. 
Edwards spent the past five seasons as the Miami Dolphins‘ linebackers coach, and previously spent two sea­sons with Washington, includ­ing the 2003 campaign as the Redskins’ defensive coordina­tor. 
Edwards immediately announced his intention to change the Bills defense from a 4-3 scheme (four linemen and three linebackers) to a 3­4. 
“We will start from a 3-4 alignment,” he said. “We’re not going to give anything away about exactly what we’ll do, but personnel will dictate what you can and what you can’t do.” 
The Bills were the only AFC East team to play a 4-3 
sale, but only 
becau s e  he  
in t e n d s  t o  
r e lo c a t e  h i s  
f am i l y pe rm a nen t ly  t o  h i s  

native Texas. If he returns to play for Buffalo next season, Schobel said he intends to rent. 
At 32, Schobel completed his ninth season with the Bills and has four years left on a $50.5 million contract exten­sion he signed before the 2007 season. 

NCAA BASKETBALL 
Duke defeats Georgia Tech 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. — Kyle Singler went to the bench and clutched his banged-up right wrist. Then he came back onto the court, rattled in a 3-pointer to beat the halftime buzzer and kept making those long-range shots during the second half. 
That pesky wrist injury cer­tainly couldn’t slow the Duke star. Georgia Tech’s defense didn’t stand a chance, either. 
Singler had career highs of 30 points and eight 3-point­ers to lead the 10th-ranked Blue Devils past the 21st­ranked Yellow Jackets 86-67 on Thursday night. 
“I just got into a rhythm,” Singler said. “I took open shots … and started knocking them down.” 
Jon Scheyer added 21 points for Duke (18-4, 6-2), which was strong inside and outside—hitting nearly 67 percent of its 3s and domi­nating Georgia Tech’s foul-plagued front line. Duke held a 40-32 rebounding edge and remained atop the Atlantic Coast Conference by claiming an easy win in a matchup of the league’s only ranked teams. 
“In this type of game,” coach Mike Krzyzewski said, “it’s a spectacular shooting performance.” 
Zachery Peacock scored the Yellow Jackets’ first 11 points, but was shut out after that. Leading scorers Gani Lawal and Derrick Favors were in foul trouble all night for Georgia Tech (16-6, 4-4), even though coach Paul Hewitt refused to use that as an excuse. 
“I don’t think the fouls had anything to do with any ­thing,” Hewitt said. “We had three days to prepare. I was sure we were ready. We spent more time preparing for them than we did anybody this year, and obviously, it didn’t do any good.” 
Nolan Smith had 14 points for Duke, which led by double figures for the entire second half in bouncing back from an embarrassingly lopsided loss at Georgetown and avenging last month’s 71-67 loss to Georgia Tech. 
“We wouldn’t be 18-4 unless we played really well,” Krzyzewski said. “We’ve had a couple of poor games, and we’re not going to define our­selves by a poor game. We’re going to define ourselves by the full body of work, and we’re just in a situation where a lot of people like to define us by whatever we don’t do well. Our kids have done a lot really well, and tonight, they even did it a lit­tle bit better.” 
The Blue Devils shot nearly 45 percent against the nation’s fourth-best field-goal percentage defense, and Singler—who was just 2 for 13 in that defeat in Atlanta— was the main beneficiary of a newly installed motion offense designed to give him the freedom to create open looks for himself. 
He finished 8 for 10 from 3­point range, scored 20 points in the final 20 minutes and shook off that sprained wrist on his shooting hand to lead the way in a dominating sec­ond half that carried the Blue Devils to their 15th straight win at Cameron Indoor Stadium. 

“Kyle Singler made us pay, big time,” Hewitt said. 
Duke was a late Georgia Tech free throw away from its 11th 20-point win at home this season, and entered outscoring its visitors by an average of 28.9 points. 
Singler hit his first three 3s of the second half to help push Duke’s lead well into the teens. Then, he helped the Blue Devils take their first 20-point lead when he took off downcourt after his steal and dumped a behind­the-back pass to Smith, whose layup attempt was swatted away on the rim and Brian Oliver was called for goaltending to make it 63-43 with 11 1/2 minutes left. 
“We didn’t do a good job of staying poised,” Lawal said. 
“We got rattled a little bit.” 
Duke’s three S’s—Singler, Scheyer and Smith—entered as the nation’s most produc­tive scoring trio, averaging 53 points, and they were sim­ply too much for a talented but young Georgia Tech team. 
Lawal picked up two fouls in the first 33 seconds and played just 16 minutes; he and Favors logged six min­utes apiece in the first half. Duke was in the double-bonus 10 minutes into the game—prime position for the nation’s top free -throw-shooting team—and made 24 of 36 attempts from the line. 
“They’re our two big men and our two people who draw a lot of attention in the mid­dle,” Peacock said of Lawal and Favors. “With them not in the game, that definitely hurt us.” 


Friday, February 5, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
TRACK & FIELD 

Meyo Invitational opens 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will kick off the prestigious Meyo Invitational at the Loftus Sports Center today. Schools from around the country are coming to town to test their mettle against each other. 
After impressive showings at the first few meets of the season including the Notre Dame Invitational and the Indiana Invitational, the Irish will look to add themselves to the growing list of Big East and NCAA qualifiers. After getting into the full swing of training and seeing how they have fared against the com­petition, the Irish look to continue to improve their marks and times. 
Assistant coaches from the sprints, jumps and throws squads all had positive remarks about their group’s chances this weekend. 
“[I hope] to see continued improvement in performance as we head into the major part of the indoor season and prepare for the Big East championships,” Irish sprints coach John Millar. 
“I am hoping for some great performances this weekend,” Irish throws coach Adam Beltran said. “I would expect nothing less with this being the last meet before conference.” 
Seventeen jumpers have already earned spots in the Big East championships, so Irish jumps coach Jim Garnham will be able to rest two of his standouts, seniors 
Eric Quick and Matt Schipper. 
With the strongest group of com­petitors the Irish will face before the conference meet, this weekend promises to be one of intense action in all events. The Irish will certainly be 
challenged by the field, which features some of the top programs in the country, and even some from Canada. 
“This will be one of the deepest fields the Meyo meet has seen in a while,” Beltran said. “The competition this weekend will be a big test for us and will be the most com­petitive meet of the indoor season.” 
More specifically, the events to watch closely will be All-America senior Jaclyn Espinoza, junior Denes Veres, 
NBA 
Cavaliers down Heat behind LeBron’s 36 
and junior Rudy Atang in the throws, and the “Meyo mile,” which is consistently one of the most exciting events of the indoor season. 
According to Garnham, there were five athletes that ran the mile in less than four 
“I am hoping for some great performances this weekend. I would expect nothing less.” 
Adam Beltran Irish coach 
minutes last year. To run the mile in less than four minutes is a stunning feat in itself. To watch five runners do it while racing each other is a spectacle. 
“It was elec­trifying to stand next to the track, ” said Garnham, referring to 
last year’s thrilling finish. 
With Big East and NCAA qualification on the line, a host of strong competition coming to campus, and one of the most thrilling events of the season, the Meyo Invitational promises to be one of the best events of the year. 
Competition kicks off today at 7 p.m. at the Loftus Sports Center. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND — LeBron James scored 36 points — 17 on free throws—and Daniel Gibson added 12 after returning from the hospital as the Cleveland Cavaliers ran their winning streak to 10 with a 102-84 win over Dwyane Wade and the Miami Heat on Thursday night. 
James started at point guard for Gibson and added eight assists and seven rebounds. A one-on-one showdown between superstars James and Wade never materialized as the Cavs controlled the game and attempted 36 free throws to 14 for Miami. 
Wade finished with 24 points on 11 of 26 shooting and Michael Beasley had 21. 
Gibson didn’t enter the game until the second half after join­ing his pregnant fiancee, singer Keyshia Cole, who was hospital­ized for precautionary reasons. He made two 3-pointers in the fourth when the Cavs outscored the Heat 21-13. 
The last time James and Wade hooked up on Jan. 12, they scored a combined 70 points in an anything-you-can­do-I-can-do-better matchup. Both provided their usual jaw-dropping plays again, but James was able to improve to 13-9 against Wade, including 9­1 in Cleveland. 
The Heat, which lost in Boston on Wednesday, have dropped four straight and six of seven. 
Miami was within eight after three quarters, but the Cavs outscored them 10-3 to open the fourth, taking a 91-76 lead on a 3 by Gibson. Wade tried to keep Miami close but didn’t have nearly as much help as James, who has adapted his game lately to fill the backcourt void. 
While James was able to draw fouls—he shot 21 free throws to 2 for Wade— his Miami counterpart wasn’t able to get as many calls despite being knocked down on a few occasions. Twice, Wade ran into Shaquille O’Neal, his former Heat teammate, and found him­self looking at the ceiling with­out hearing a whistle. 
O’Neal added 13 points and eight rebounds in 21 minutes, yet another strong, efficient performance from the big man who has stepped his game up of late. 
He posted up and scored on a pair of short jumpers as the Cavs pushed their lead to 12 late in the third. 
James started at point guard for Gibson, who has done a nice job filling in while Mo Williams and Delonte West recover from injuries. 


page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, February 5, 2010 
Kansas 
continued from page 20 
against UNC, and while it is only one point it is still very impor­tant,” Frilling said. “I think it’s crucial that we win the doubles point in every match because it gives everyone confidence for sin­gles.” 
All three of the doubles teams are new this season, and due to debilitating injuries in the fall por­tion of this academic year, this is only the third weekend the pairs have to play together. 
“Although our doubles teams are new this year, I think we still have the upper hand on these teams in regards to the doubles,” Frilling said. “I think we’re all hoping to use that to our advan­tage and win the doubles point in both matches this weekend.” 
Saturday, the women will travel to Lawrence, Kan. to compete against the Jayhawks in order to improve on their 3-1 record. 
“Kansas has a veteran line up but they have only played on match so we don’t know much about them,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. “I don’t think Kansas has as much depth as we have in our lineup.” 
The challenge and competition that this weekend promises will continue on to Sunday as the Irish will travel to Ann Arbor, Mich. in hopes of securing a win over the No. 19 Wolverines. 
“Michigan doesn’t really have a weakness,” Louderback said. “They are very good at the top of their line up and they have good depth. Michigan on the road will tell us how well we compete against top 20 teams away from home.” 
Last weekend, the Wolverines won their ITA Kickoff Weekend tournament and will be advanc­ing to the National Indoor Team Championships for the first time in program history. 
“We play Michigan every year and it is always a battle,” Frilling said. “Michigan has great players at every spot in the lineup so we are all going to have to be pre­pared for tough matches all around.” 
The Irish will play Kansas at 4 
p.m. Saturday and Michigan at 11 
a.m. Sunday. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
FENCING 

Playing for Teddy 
By KEVIN BALDWIN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will be fighting for more than their undefeated season this weekend. Notre Dame will have opportunity to vanquish the top competitors in the Midwest, and better yet do it at home in the Purcell Pavilion. 
This time the Notre Dame fencing team will have one person in mind as they take to the strips Saturday: senior Teddy Hodges. 
It was just months ago that an illness struck down the promising young fencer after his sophomore year with the Irish, and he soon found him­self in the fight of his life. 
“[Ted] had a stroke and was frankly speaking, dying. He was in a coma and there was a necessity to replace his heart,” Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. “We prayed the whole semester for his health and today he visited us and informed us that he’s get­ting better and he plans to return in the fall to continue his studies.” 
Bednarski called it a miracle that Ted was able to receive a transplant after waiting for so long on the donor list, much less be able to return to visit his team including brother, freshman foilist Grant Hodges, for their annual home invita­tional. 
The event will be the final competition of the regular season before the Midwest Conference championships in March in which the team will have the opportunity to gain position in their pursuit of the elusive National Championship. It will feature familiar foe No. 5 Northwestern, whose women’s squad is certain to be a formi­dable challenge to the young Irish squad. 
The men’s team has showed remarkable progress through­out the year and will have an opportunity to continue their momentum against rivals Cleveland State and Wayne State, whose epee unit gave the Irish men a run for their money last week in Evanston, Ill. 
However great the margin of victory, it is always important to bear in mind the value of team support that motivates athletes to overcome whatever obstacles may be thrown their way in the face of doubt that is symbolized by Ted Hodges. 
“All results this weekend will be dedicated to Ted,” Bednarski said. 
Contact Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwi2@nd.edu 
Devils 
continued from page 20 
tling into a good rhythm and is striking the ball well. Casey Watt competes as hard as anyone and [junior] Dan Stahl has fully recov­ered from his injury suffered last weekend, so we are optimistic that we will play well. Winning the doubles point will be impor­tant, as will handling their crowd.” 
Duke has taken the last three matches from the Irish and Notre Dame will look to snap this win streak in the team’s 24th meeting. 
The Irish have had to rebound from the tough loss to Tulsa last weekend and showed their resilience in the victory over New Mexico, but will face a tougher opponent in Duke this weekend. 
The Irish have a very deep team with a lot of young talent that will all be fighting for playing time in the lineup this season. 
“I feel we are good enough to take on this schedule, but we need to be sufficiently resilient to handle some losses and rebound well to take advantage of the large number of opportunities that we will have,” Bayliss said. “As for playing time, I believe that this might be the deepest team we have ever had in my 23-year Notre Dame tenure.” 
The Irish are looking to get con­tributions from both their veteran players and the freshman. 
“We have 10 players who have done well as starters, or are impact freshmen,” Bayliss said. “The last time I checked, we are only going to be able to play six of them at a time in singles, except for the Virginia match, in which we are playing 10 singles and five doubles. Last year, for example, [junior] Tyler [Davis], David [Anderson], [sophopmore] Niall [Fitzgerald], and [sophomore] Sam [Keeton] all started in at least 10 matches, so they know that they are all going to get their opportunities. The challenge is to stay focused and ready while someone else is in there, so that you can hit the ground running when your number is called.” 

The next duel match for the Irish will be when they travel to Michigan on Feb. 13, with first serve set for 6 p.m. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles in another key MIAAmatch 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s looks to notch another key late-season win over conference foe Kalamazoo when it visits Saturday afternoon. The Belles will hope to stay above .500 in conference play and stay in third place in the MIAA with only three conference games left after this weekend. 
Saint Mary’s (11-9, 6-6 MIAA) will not look past the Hornets (1­17, 1-11 MIAA) despite Kalamazoo’s spot in the confer­ence cellar. 
“When you get into February, every game is a tough game,” Belles coach Jennifer Henley said. “Kalamazoo is a much improved team. They played us tough at their place back in January.” 
The Hornets are led by senior forward Nyemade Cooper, who averages 9.6 points per game and six rebounds per game. Another leader for Kalamazoo is junior guard Courtney Kaplan, who averages nine points per game. Kalamazoo’s backcourt is aug­mented by senior guard Briana Hendrix, who scores 7.7 points per game. 
Senior forward Anna Kammrath will go up against Cooper in the paint for Saint Mary’s, while junior guard Liz Wade and sophomore guard Patsy Mahoney will battle the Hornet frontcourt. Sophomore forward Kelley Murphy will also be called upon to deliver one of her typically strong all-around games. As a team, the Belles will hope to put forth a tougher, more consistent defensive effort during this game, Henley said. 
“The biggest challenge we have from this point forward is to con­tinue improving our team defense for an entire game,” she said. 
Saint Mary’s is currently tied for third in the MIAA with Trine (11­10, 6-6 MIAA), who faces Adrian Saturday. A Belle win would ensure that Saint Mary’s retains at least a share of third place, while a loss could mean that the Belles drop into a tie for fourth place, a crucial difference in the last few games before the confer­ence tournament. 
The game will be preceded by the Saint Mary’s Alumnae game, which takes place every two years. 
The Belles and Hornets meet in a vital late-season matchup at 3 
p.m. Saturday in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


Friday, February 5, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
responded with a steady diet of “They’ve got some really lead the charge. They ’re 
Harangody and Abromaitis, good players,” McGraw said. back and forth with No. 1
Cinci Pitt 
complemented by a few 

“[Junior guard Jania] Sims and 2 in steals on the team. continued from page 20 Hansbrough shots from dis­
continued from page 20 is playing really well, she They really do a pretty good tance. 

hits a lot of shots, and they job in our practice, and they Dame was able to run the floor Harangody said the difference 
misstep to spoil a promising have a really big team. They usually guard the other and split the Bearcats’ (14-8, 5-between this effort and their 
season. rely on Sims and [junior team’s best player.” 

5) defense for three early earlier game, a 60-58 loss to the 
“Every game is important guard Shayla] Scott quite a The Panthers should have momentum-building dunks. Bearcats, came down to 
for us,” McGraw said. “We bit on the perimeter. They their hands full guarding “I tried to come out aggres-rebounding. 
are coming off a four-game have veteran, returning one of the deepest back ­sive, I was able to drive a couple “I think it was about getting 
stretch that was kind of bru-players from last year, and courts in the country, but of times and get to the foul on the backboard, we won those 
tal for us on the schedule. they’re always a tough game junior forward Becca line,” Abromaitis said. “Ben battles tonight,” Harangody 
The first thing we do is get a for us to play.” Bruszewski gives the Irish [Hansbrough] was able to pene-said. “They kind of pushed us 
little rest and get ready to Sims and Scott direct a an additional dimension on trate and find me for a couple of around down at Cincinnati a 
head into the next stretch. Panthers offense that can offense. If Bruszewski’s 13­easy buckets.” couple of weeks ago, so we felt 
We’re real focused on what run up the score in a hurry. point performance against The effort was also there early like they thought they could 
we have to do. It ’s great Averaging 15.4 points per Rutgers Monday is any indi­on the defensive end, as the come in here and do it again, 
when you can come off a game, Sims is an explosive cation of the future, Irish caused Cincinnati to make and we said ‘No, this is our 
win and still see the things player that thrives on defen-Pittsburgh’s noticeably big-only three of its first 13 shots. place.’” 
you have to get better at.” sive mismatches, while Scott ger centers will be tested Harangody said Irish coach Hansbourgh had an impres-
While traditionally a con-provides an excellent com-early and often. Mike Brey challenged the team sive all-around game, flirting 
ference powerhouse, plement as a knock-down “We ’re just such a bal ­to be tougher this week in prac-with a triple-double by filling up 
Pittsburgh (12 -9, 1-7 Big shooter. anced team, we don’t really tice. the box score with 12 points, 
East) has been plagued by But where Pittsburgh has talk about that,” McGraw “I think this week in practice eight rebounds and nine assists. 
injuries this season and is struggled mightily on said. “Each particular week we kind of got after each other, Notre Dame slowly began to 
struggling just to stay in the defense, the Irish are thriv-different people are going to we’ve been a little soft, especial-pull away from Cincinnati as the 
playoff picture. The ing, averaging 12 steals and be open, different players ly on the road,” Harangody said. second half wore on, and took a 
Panthers rank dead last in forcing more than 23 are going to get hot. I’m “Now we’ve got another home 15-point lead after a three-point 
defense, giving up 70.1 turnovers per game. Led by really happy with the way game coming up, but we’ve got play and dunk by Harangody. 
points per game while forc-the quick feet and aggres-Becca has responded. She to be tough and get to work.” Another three-point play by 
ing fewer than 15 turnovers. sive style of senior guard was key in that run we had The pace slowed down consid-Abromaitis gave the Irish a 66­
If the numbers hold true, Ashley Barlow and freshman in the second half, broke the erably for Notre Dame, as the 48 lead with less than eight 
Notre Dame (20-1, 7-1 Big guard Skylar Diggins, solid game open for us.” team failed to find a rhythm minutes to play and left little 
East) should run away with team defense has propelled The Irish tip -off with from the perimeter, making just doubt about the final outcome. 
its sixth consecutive confer-the Irish to third overall in Pittsburgh Saturday at 2 one of its first seven attempts. Senior point guard Tory 
ence victory. But this is the the conference. p.m. in the Purcell Pavilion. After the Bearcats capitalized Jackson scored just one point 
Big East, where the only “Ashley Barlow and Skylar on the cold shooting to pull but dished out eight assists, and 
safe bet is a Connecticut are our two best defenders,” Contact Chris Masoud at within three, Abromaitis and forward Tyrone Nash tallied 
blowout. McGraw said. “They just cmasoud@nd.edu Harangody keyed an 11-3 run to four points and six rebounds. give the Irish a 28-17 lead. Irish football coach Brian 
Notre Dame maintained the Kelly was also in attendance to 
harm’s way,” Jackson said. tied for fourth. lead until the half, entering the watch the battle between the 
The Irish need to get a win The Irish will attempt to 
Injured 

break with a 40-27 edge. Irish and his former school. 
or two, whether it be 2-1 or hold onto that position when Harangody had a double-double Notre Dame will be back in 
continued from page 20 6-5, in order to keep pace in they take on Western 15 minutes into the game, and action Sunday, facing confer-
the CCHA. Six teams are sep-Michigan at Kalamazoo, ended the half with 16 points ence opponent South Florida at 
“We are going to have to be arated by two points in pur-Mich., Friday and Saturday, and 10 rebounds. noon. 
willing to win a game 2-1, suit of the fourth-place spot at 7:35 p.m. both nights. After halftime, the Bearcats 
and do a good job managing for the conference tourna­gained a little momentum with Contact Michael Bryan at 
the puck and not put our ment. Currently Notre Dame Contact Douglas Farmer at two consecutive 3s, but the Irish mbryan@nd.edu 
defense or our goaltender in and Lake Superior State are dfarmer1@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, February 5, 2010 
Friday, February 5, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
CROSSWORD 



HENRI ARNOLD
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Friday, February 5, 2010 page 20 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Slamming home a point 
Irish get payback after trouncing of Bearcats 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish avenged a last-sec­ond road loss to Cincinnati ear­lier in the season at Purcell Pavilion Thursday, trouncing the Bearcats 83-65. 
Senior forward Luke Harangody was dominant under the basket, scoring a sea­son-high 37 points and gather­ing 14 rebounds while junior forward Tim Abromaitis added 22 points. 
The game stopped a miser­able stretch that had seen the Irish (16-7, 5-5) lose four of their past five games, culminat­ing in a defeat at Rutgers, who had been winless in Big East play. 

Notre Dame started hot offen­sively, quickly opening up a 15­6 lead in the first six minutes. Abromaitis scored nine of the team’s first 11 points, as Notre PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Senior forward Luke Harangody dunks in the second half of the Irish’s 83-65 win over see CINCI/page 17 Cincinnati Thursday. 

WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Squad to playKansas, Michigan 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
After a week of practicing since their first seasonal loss against North Carolina, the Irish are ready to bounce back and defeat Kansas and Michigan on this weekend’s coming road trip. 
“We want to come out strong, forget about the loss, and posi­tively move forward to the rest of the season,” sophomore Kristy Frilling said. 
Last weekend, the Irish lost to No. 17 North Carolina, 5-2, losing out on their chance to play at the National Indoor Team Championships in mid-February. 
A crucial point for this weekend will be points earned in doubles play. After losing this point against the Tar Heels, the Irish were left without the momentum needed to carry out the win. 
“We lost the doubles point 
see KANSAS/page 16 


HOCKEY 

Injuries an issue as Notre Dame prepares for Western Michigan 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Associate Sports Editor 
The injury-ravaged Irish received both good and bad news as they travel to Western Michigan for a piv­otal CCHA series this week­end. 
The good news: junior defenseman Teddy Ruth returns to the lineup, increas­ing the depth on the back line significantly. 
“Getting another defense-man certainly will help us,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “Teddy will give us a little bit of reasonable ice time from the guys who have been play­ing a lot of minutes.” 
The bad news: junior center Ben Ryan is out for a few weeks because of a separated shoulder, keeping the injured tally at six players. 
“Losing another forward in Ben Ryan is going to be tough to deal with,” Jackson said. 
“Especially with [sophomore forward Billy] Maday and [senior wing Christiaan] Minella out.” 
Jackson said there is a chance both Maday and Minella could be back on the ice within three weeks. 
But in the meantime, the Irish (12-11-7, 8-8-6-2 CCHA) must prepare to face a Western Michigan squad look­ing to shed its doormat status. The Broncos (6-15-5, 2-14-4­
1) are in last place in the con­
WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Streaking Irish to battle Pitt 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Wrapping up one of the toughest stretches of the year with a rout of Rutgers Monday, the No. 3 Irish wel­come a Pittsburgh team des­perate for a conference win in the last month of the sea­son. 
After playing at such a high level of basketball the last two weeks, Notre Dame ’s biggest concern heading into Saturday’s matchup is main­taining a controlled style of play to match the Panthers’ skill. Irish coach Muffet McGraw said the loss of any competitive edge will not be a factor, as it only takes one 
see PITT/page 17 

ference, five points behind Bowling Green, Notre Dame’s next opponent. While Western Michigan may not have had much success in the confer­ence this season, the Broncos are always poised for a win behind senior goaltender Riley Gill. Gill leads the CCHA with 585 saves. 
“[Western Michigan is] a tough place to play. They have a really good goaltender,” Jackson said. “They just took Miami (Ohio) to the limit on the weekend at Miami, which is a tough thing to do. A lot of that is their goaltender.” 
Facing such a goalie as Gill will not help the offensive woes that have plagued the Irish for most of the season. The Irish average 2.41 goals per game in conference play, 10th in the conference. Western Michigan comes in 12th in the category with 2.05 goals per game. 
see INJURED/page 17 
MEN’S TENNIS 
Team ready for ranked bout with Blue Devils 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The No. 34 Irish will travel to Durham, N.C. to take on No. 21 Duke this weekend with first serve set for noon Sunday. 
“Duke is a top-20 team this year and will be difficult to beat in Durham, but we are going there with the thought that we can get it done,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “They have a very strong top of the lineup with freshman Enrique Cunyha and junior Reid Carleton, who also form their No. 1 doubles team. Throw in Dylan Arnold, Jason Pinsky, and some of their other talented players and you have a group that can go deep into the NCAA Tournament.” 
The Irish are coming off a 4-1 victory over New Mexico last weekend at the National Team Qualifier Indoors in Columbus, Ohio. 
There the Irish finished 1-1 with a 4-3 loss to Tulsa to start off the weekend. 
“We will need to play one of our best matches to win, so I am counting on continued improved play deep in our lineup,” Bayliss said. “[Junior] David Anderson played very well against New Mexico and has practiced well this week. [Freshman] Blas Moros is very reliable and has terrific ground strokes. [Junior] Stephen Havens seems to be set-
see DEVILS/page 16 





