the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


The drought is over 
Students endure rainy weather, see Irish snap eight-game losing streak against rivaled USC 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Writer 
LOS ANGELES — When sen­ior Scott McIntosh attended the Notre Dame football game at USC in 2008, the Irish entered the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum with a 6-5 record, and rumors that then-head coach Charlie Weis would be fired were already swirling. 
McIntosh recalled the grim mood of Irish fans before that game and said energy flagged even more when USC pum­meled the Irish 38-3. 
But when he returned to the Coliseum Saturday, the mood of Notre Dame fans was palpably more energetic. 
“This year, everyone was definitely much rowdier, and I think you could get a sense that this is a more competitive game, more evenly matched,” he said. “You could feel there was a chance we would win.” 
Rain pelted fans in the sta­dium for much of the second half, but students who trekked to Southern California for Saturday’s game said watching Notre Dame’s 20-16 victory over USC was a satisfying and exciting end to a season of highs and lows. 
For McIntosh, a former res­ident of Alumni Hall, the best part of the game was senior safety Harrison Smith’s inter-
see GAME/page 4 


Top: Senior linebacker Kerry Neal cel­ebrated after Notre Dame’s nail-biting vic­tory over USC Saturday. Neal played in every game of his four years with the Irish, the only player in his class to do so. 
Bottom: A group of USC students who painted their bodies for the game lament their team’s 20-16 loss to Notre Dame Saturday. 
DAN JACOBS/ The Observer 




College places first in statewide competition 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Ten days, 83 pages and one case study later, Saint Mary’s students took first place at the Indiana Certified Public Accounting Society’s (INCPAS) 2010 collegiate contest in Indianapolis earlier this month. 
The team was given a sce­nario about a struggling accounting firm and wrote a report on how to deal with the issue. The team was comprised of juniors Allison Courtney and Maggie DePaola, seniors Betsy Reed and Maureen Temchuk and faculty advisor Mary Ann Merryman, chair of the Business Administration and Economics department. 

The Saint Mary’s team com­peted against 12 others from Indiana to win the contest, which was held Nov. 19. 
The group had to put togeth­er a 50-page report and 30 pages of appendices in the 10­day time frame, Courtney said. Then, the top six reports were chosen to present in Indianapolis. From those six, the Saint Mary’s team took 
see INCPAS/page 3 



University toupgrade printers in dorms 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Headaches with printer issues should be alleviated by the beginning of next semester. 
New Xerox 4510 printers will be placed in the resi­dence halls and several other locations on campus, replacing the 3600 model currently in use, said Brian Burchett, manager of Technology Enhanced Learning Spaces for the Office of Information Technology (OIT). 
“[The problems with printers] happened very quickly last year,” Burchett said. “We were concerned with the Xerox 3600 printers in the resi­dence halls.” 
The problems occurred when printing PDF files and because students began using the printers more, he said. 
The University leases the printers from Xerox, and OIT decided to lease the 3600 model after looking at printer usages from pre­vious years. The Xerox 
see PRINTERS/page 3 



Holidaytravelbringsheadaches 
Students encounter new body scanners, increased security at airports 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
When flying from airports in Chicago and Seattle over Thanksgiving break, junior Didi Thekkethala was asked to go through a scanner that X-rayed her entire body before proceeding to board her flight. 
“You step into this really big machine and have to hold your hands up above your head for seven seconds,” she said. “Once you step out of the machine, they made us wait another two minutes while 
see TSA/page 5 


AP A TSA officer waves passengers toward a security check­point at Seattle-Tacoma International Airport last week. 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Student gives advice on ‘Emma’s Dilemma’ page 3  Food for thought page 9  Irish win Old Spice Classic page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Tuesday, November 30, 2010 

THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Sarah Mervosh Molly Sammon Kristen Durbin Mike Todisco Emily Schrank Scene 
Graphics Marissa Frobes Brandon Keelean Viewpoint Photo Megan Kozak Dan Jacobs 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT WAS T E  IG LIG T OF YOUR T ANKSGIVING BREAK? 








Ariel Terpstra  Kate McGovern  Sean Sall  Alex Sajben  Betsy McGovern  Matthew Balkey  
junior  sophomore  junior  senior  sophomore  senior  
Le Mans  Pangborn  off campus  Badin  Pangborn  Dillon  
“Either the win  “Breaking the  “Basement  “When Harrison  “My brother  “NOT the Penn  
against USC or  eight-year  Football  Smith caught  was on the  State-Michigan  
all the  losing streak.”  League.”  that  news for  State game.”  
Christmas  interception.”  winning his  
baking we did  high school  
yesterday.”  football game.”  


DAN JACOBS/The Observer Notre Dame cheerleaders celebrate the victory over Southern California in Los Angeles on Saturday. The win was Notre Dame’s first over USC since 2001. 
OFFBEAT 
Boy’s savings to help rebuild fire station 
CHARLESTON, W.Va. — A 5-year-old West Virginia boy has donated his life savings -nearly $46 in change -to help rebuild a volunteer fire station that burned down in an Oct. 1 electrical fire. 
The Charleston Gazette reported Saturday that Joshua Shaffer donated $45.85 from his piggy bank to help rebuild the main station of the Sissonville Volunteer Fire Department north of Charleston. 
Tom Miller, with the fire department's board of directors, says the donation underscores community support for rebuilding. He says West Virginia school­children have raised more than $5,000 already. 
The fire department's insurance covered only about half of the $2 million in damage. Firefighters have been running bor­rowed fire trucks on emer­gency calls from a nearby auto shop. 
Woman rescued from pickup truck stuck in tree top 
EVANS CITY, Pa.— Rescue crews had to use ropes and ladders to retrieve a western Pennsylvania woman from her pickup truck after it ran off a road and landed in tree tops about 30 feet above ground in a ravine. 
Police say they'll be citing 33-year-old Dana Bowser for driving too fast for con­ditions on Route 68 near Evans City. That's about 25 miles north of Pittsburgh. 
State police say Bowser lost control near a culvert that carries the highway over Connoquenessing (kaw-nuh-kwah-NESS'-ing) Creek. Police say Bowser told them the road was icy. 
Rescue workers say Bowser was conscious and able to communicate with workers. Most importantly, they say she didn't panic as they worked to reach her in the precarious position. 
She was taken to Butler Memorial Hospital with minor injuries. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Wednesday Thursday 









Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
The seminar “Thin Shear Layers — The Key to Turbulence Structure” will take place today at 11 a.m. in Fitzpatrick Hall Room 258. J.C.R. Hunt, profes­sor of climate physics at the University of Cambridge, will present this installment of the Environmental Fluid Dynamics Seminar Series. 
The lecture “Skeletons in the Closet: Transitional Justice in Post-Communist Europe” will take place today at 12:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Monika Nalepa, assistant professor of political science, will speak. The lecture is free and open to the public. 
The seminar “Rational Protein Engineering on the Yeast Surface” will take place today at 3:30 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall Room 138. 
Fox News commentator Steven Crowder will perform his political humor Thursday at 7:30 p.m. at Saint Mary's College as a guest of the College Republicans and SMC­TV. The event, which is free and open to the public, will be held in Little Theatre in Moreau Center for the Arts. For more information, go to www.moreaucenter.com. 
The Notre Dame men's and women's track and field team will host a food drive at their annual indoor season opening meet Friday at 6 p.m. at the Loftus Sports Center. The team is collecting canned goods and non-perishable items to donate to a local food shelter this holi­day season. Monetary contribu­tions are also welcomed. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

Friday Saturday 

Tuesday, November 30, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



‘Bellezine’ gives voice to College 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEYI 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
When three Saint Mary’s alumnae started the College’s campus interest magazine, Bellezine, they wanted a pub­lication that would give stu­dents “a voice of their own — a canvas to express their thoughts, ideas and knowl­edge,” according to the maga­zine’s first edition in 2002. 
Eight years later, Bellezine is still publishing student-gen­erated work, “reflecting the interests and experiences” of the women at the Saint Mary’s, said co­editor Eilis 

Wasserman, a “This magazine helps including com-junior. unify the campus ments from The magazine Kelly, a com ­
community by truly
published cre-parative piece ative stories, expressing what it on the begin ­advice, person-means to be a Belle.” ning and end of 
al interviews, the Iraq War, p e r s o n a l our new Muggle 
Eilis Wasserman 
essays, interest Quidditch Clu articles and co-editor and overall the surveys. Bellezine unique atmos­
“The content is varied and broad, allowing students to publish many ideas,” said Wasserman, who leads the publication along with junior Brittany VanSnepson. 
“We both oversee the pro­duction of the entire maga­zine, although I deal exclu­sively with design and com­munication aspects and she deals exclusively with writing and editing aspects,” Wasserman said. 
The publication comes out twice a year, once in the fall semester and then again in the spring. Each semester has a prevailing subject. 
She said most submissions will be published, but there is an editing process the articles go through. 
“We welcome all ideas and articles. The sky is the limit,” 


INCPAS 
continued from page 1 
first. 
“It was just such a nice feeling that all our hard work paid off,” Courtney said. “It was amazing.” 
According to the INCPAS website, Valparaiso University placed second and the University of Southern Indiana placed third. The remaining three, Butler University, Indiana University and Indiana University ­Purdue University 

Indianapolis, “It was just such a tition,” Courtney 
were given hon-nice feeling that all said. orable mentions. For next year’s 
our hard work paid
Each student competition, the 
on the Saint off. It was amazing.” Saint Mary’s Mary’s team was team will again awarded $1,000 Allison Courtney be comprised of 
for winning the two juniors and 
junior
competition, the 
website said. 
Merryman has taken five teams to the finals of the INCPAS contest, which began in 2000, and placed as high as third in the past. This is the first time Saint Mary’s has won the entire competition, according to the College’s press release. 
“Students graduate, so the one constant is a faculty member Wasserman said. “We will print most articles that con­vey appropriate content for a women’s magazine. We will edit all articles to make sure they fit these criteria.” 
Deadlines for the paper vary, she said, but students generally have about two months to complete their work. 
The fall 2010 issue has already been in the works for months and will be released before winter break. Its theme is women’s empower­ment. 
“There are so many great articles in the magazine rang­
ing from The 
Brain Kelly Era, 
phere of an all­
women’s col ­lege,” Wasserman said of the fall issue. 
Wasserman said the maga­zine needs students to help keep it going because it allows students to voice their thoughts and beliefs about the College and what it means to be a woman. 
“This magazine helps unify the campus community by truly expressing what it means to be a Belle,” Wasserman said. “Our goal is to capture the spirit of [Saint Mary’s] through the medium of writing. The magazine will be a great asset on campus that students can look for­ward to reading every semes­ter.” 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
with an ongoing commitment to make sure that a college or uni­versity organizes and coaches a team to compete,” Merryman said in the release. 
According to Courtney, INCPAS invites every college in Indiana and Saint Mary’s has participat­ed in the competition for several years. 
She said winning the competi­tion was “surreal” for multiple reasons. 
“One, Saint Mary’s had never placed first in the competition before and two, we were proba­bly the smallest school represent­ed at the compe­
two seniors. Courtney said it is set up this way 
so she and DePaola will be more prepared. 
“I will take away the experi­ence I have gained this year to compete again in the competi­tion next year,” DePaola said. 


Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 

Lawstudentgivesrelationshipadvice 

MATT SAAD/The Observer Third-year law student Ayelet Regev, known as Emma Woodhouse, provides relationship advice on her weekly radio show on Notre Dame’s student-run radio channel, WVFI. 

By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
Her name is Ayelet Regev, but her fans know her as Emma Woodhouse. 
This third-year law student gives relationship advice on her radio show and self-cre­ated website under the pen-name based on the match­making Jane Austen charac­ter. 
“It’s a cheeky play on words,” Regev said. 
Her radio show, titled “Emma’s Dilemma,” airs Thursday nights at 7 p.m. on Notre Dame’s student-run radio channel, WVFI. 
Regev, who has a degree in Gender Studies and sociology, deals with relationships on a basic human level rather than focusing solely on romantic relationships, 
“Dealing with people, understanding them, it really is so important,” she said. “We teach math, science … Why don’t we teach more about relationships?” 


Printers 
continued from page 1 
3600 is equipped to handle up to 8,000 pages printed per month, Burchett said. 
Problems occurred when student printer usage went up by 50 percent this year. The average residence hall printer is now printing 12,000 to 15,000 pages per month, which contributed to printer hardware breaking down, he said. 
“The 4510 model can han­dle 25,000 pages per month,” he said. “We’re expecting far fewer mechan­ical breakdowns.” 
Junior Kristy Cloetingh said has been printing more this semester from University printers, and said she has noticed other stu­dents printing more as well. Printing in DeBartolo Hall seems to be the most trou­blesome, she said. 
“It would print one page, take three minutes and then print the next,” she said. “I had to print one document two pages at a time because the printer kept jamming.” 
PDF file printing was another problem seen this semester and another factor in choosing to upgrade print­ers, Burchett said. 
Burchett said the problem with PDF printing came from the printer drivers, which 

Originally from Israel, Regev used her interpersonal skills to deal with the cultural transition when she moved to the United States. Now, she uses that same skill set to help people navigate their own relationship issues. 
“I see it all as part of one big thing,” Regev said. “It’s really holistic, how to deal with people and one’s rela­tionship with other people.” 
Her website, fianllygetit.com, launched about a year and a half ago. On the site, people can get personalized relationship advice. People also contact her through her Facebook and ask questions, Regev said. 
She decided to do a radio show on WVFI so she could answer the broader relation­ship questions that many peo­ple have. 
“People deal with these issues all the time,” Regev said. 
WVFI station manager Nicolle Walkling, a senior, said most of the shows on WVFI are music-based and the talk shows usually revolved around sports or entertainment. So Walkling thought a relationship advice show sounded like a great idea. 
“We’re always looking to expand the scope of the sta­tion.” Walkling said. “This show is really interactive and not only includes the campus community, but the wider South Bend community as well.” 
Regev has also written two relationship books. One is geared toward women and the other for men. The books explain the principles of rela­tionships and their ultimate goal is to help people under­stand the mechanisms that create a relationship, Regev said. 
“I don’t tell a person what they want,” Regev said. “I try to figure out what they want and help them reach their end goal.” 

Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 

communicate between the computer and printer. The development of new drivers has since helped the situa­tion, as Burchett said print times for one test PDF docu­ment on the 3600 model improved from 16 minutes to three minutes. 
Cloetingh said she and other students have experi­enced the PDF printing prob­lem firsthand. She said her entire class groaned when a in breaking the lease early. Xerox is allowing us to upgrade [the printers] with­out any penalties,” he said. “This is very beneficial to the University.” 
When students return from winter break, Burchett said students will have to test printing and possibly rerun Print@ND, the printer installer, if there are prob­lems. 
For now, students can rerun 
professor asked them to print out PDF articles 

“Printing is an
because of the 

trouble it important service on 
would cause. campus and we’re “Professors 
committed to make
don’t seem to 

this a service
unde rsta nd how long it students can depend takes, ” she 
on.” 
said. “But what’s the alternative? Brian Burchett When you manager need to take Technology Enhanced notes on the 
Learning Spaces 
article, or need to look back at it in Print@ND now to get PCL driv­ers to help with problems until the new print­
ers  are  
installed,  he  
said.  

Burchett said students should look at printing as a shared resource and read things online, if possi­ble, instead of printing them out. 
“A lot of peo­ple have worked hard 

class, it’s hard to bring your laptop to class all day.” 
Since problems with print­ers were both hardware and PDF related, OIT decided to upgrade instead of just changing the drivers, Burchett said. 
“Normally when you lease anything, there are penalties on this. We appreciate all the problem reports and stu­dent help,” he said. “Printing is an important service on campus and we’re commit­ted to make this a service students can depend on.” 

Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 30, 2010 


Game 
continued from page 1 
ception near the goal line at the end of the fourth quarter, stopping USC from completing what could have been a last minute, game winning touch­down. 
“We lived in Alumni with Harrison Smith. I didn’t know him, but to see a senior come up with huge play at end was amazing,” McIntosh said. 
Senior Zach Reuvers, who traveled to Los Angeles for the game, said the fourth quarter brought flashbacks of tantaliz­ing games that were lost in the last few plays, particularly the most recent 28-27 loss to Tulsa on the final play. 
But the win against USC made up for four years of dis­appointing losses, Reuvers said. 
“After Harrison [Smith] came back and intercepted, the joy and eruption and everyone screaming and jumping was unbelievable to watch,” he said. 
Students highlighted USC quarterback Mitch Mustain’s incomplete pass to receiver Ronald Johnson in the fourth quarter as a game-changing moment. 
Senior Sarah Wanek said that dropped pass was when she began to believe the Irish would win. 
“Being a Notre Dame fan, you always want to go in with the expectation that we will win even though we’ve been used to losing,” she said. “Especially with that dropped pass, once that happened, it gave me confidence that we would win.” 
Reuvers said he breathed a sigh of relief when Johnson missed the pass. 
“When he dropped the ball 
— that was the end zone we were in — everyone just let out a huge gasp,” he said. In between the masses of maroon at USC, students said Notre Dame fans had a strong presence at the game. Junior Caroline Walsh sat in the USC student section with a friend and said she could hear Irish fans cheering from across the stadium. 
“When it got to the fourth quarter and USC was not doing well, I could hear Notre Dame fans screaming, ‘Let’s go Irish,’” Walsh said. 
“Viewing that from the stu­dent section of USC and seeing the Irish fans getting rowdy in the rain was awesome.” 
Reuvers said Notre Dame made its mark on the pregame atmosphere on USC’s campus with numerous tailgates and displays of blue and gold. 
“It felt like the Notre Dame tailgating experience was transplanted to Southern Cal,” he said. “It was almost like being home a little bit. Being surrounded by a sea of green felt good.” 
But sitting in the USC stu­dent section sporting Irish col­ors, Walsh said she experi­enced some animosity. 
“During the fourth quarter when it was so intense, I was getting some glares for cheer­ing when everyone else was silent,” Walsh said. 
Despite a storied rivalry between USC and Notre Dame, senior Kristen Tappel left the Coliseum with a positive impression of the USC fans surrounding her. One of her friends dressed for the warm weather before the game, and didn’t have a jacket when the weather turned cold and rainy. 
“They saw that she didn’t have a jacket on her and gave her a blanket,” Tappel said. “Everyone was worried and offering blankets, trying to keep everyone dry and having a good time.” 

Tappel said she is hopeful the momentum from Saturday’s victory will be a turning point for the football program. 
“This is what [Irish coach] Brian Kelly has been saying. Changes within the organiza­tion were hard to see with some of the losses earlier on, and now those changes are starting to show,” she said. 

Laura McCrystal contributed to this report. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 


Studies target childhood obesity 
Special to The Observer 
With the new Family Lifestyles and Heart to Heart projects, researchers at Notre Dame’s Center for Children and Families are taking direct aim at two major obstacles to healthy child development: childhood obesity and child maltreatment. 
The Center for Children and 
Families, established in 2001 by 
Professors John Borkowski and 
Mark Cummings, works to 
improve the well-being of chil­
dren and families through 
research and intervention. 
Projects impact three key areas: income and health dis­parities; developmental disabili­ties and psychopathology; and optimization of development, education and learning. The center currently is conducting more than 20 research projects with faculty from economics, sociology, psychology, anthropol­ogy, business and other disci­plines. 
“When you have a research center, you’re bringing in people who have different interests and experiences,” Julie Braungart-Rieker, professor of psychology and the center’s director, said. “Yet there’s often a common issue that researchers would like to tackle, and that’s when it gets exciting.” 
The Family Lifestyles Project, led by Braungart-Rieker, Jennifer Burke Lefever, research assistant professor of psychology and Elizabeth Moore, associate professor of marketing, is an interdiscipli­nary study that examines envi­ronmental contributors to child­hood obesity. At a time when one in five preschoolers is at risk of becoming obese before age six, a study of this kind is an essential first step to creating successful early intervention programs. 


Tuesday, November 30, 2010 The Observer . NEWS page 5 
TSA 
continued from page 1 
they looked at the X-ray image. A lot of people had to go back through because they had tissues in their pockets. 
“The whole experience was kind of freaky.” 
Thekkethala was one of many Notre Dame students who faced heightened security measures in response to new Transportation Security Administration guidelines. 
Thekkethala said the process of scanning every individual caused several delays. 
“It slowed security down a lot,” she said. “I would have definitely missed my flight if it hadn’t already been delayed. 
“The full body scanner is going to make everything take a lot longer.” 
The length of time airport security checks take is a con­stant complaint of travelers when discussing the worth of the multiple security checks at airports. Thekkethala said she found the new security measures to be “time-con­suming,” but they did make her feel safer. 

“I’ve experienced stricter security measures when I’ve flown in Europe,” she said. “These new scanners and other security are just steps the U.S. airlines are taking that probably need to happen anyway.” 
Junior Mitch Hemann also had to go through the full body scanner this past sum­mer at the Minneapolis air­port. He said the experience 
was “quick and painless,” and it wasn’t both­ersome because every single passenger went through the scanner. 
“A lot of peo­ple wonder if all these securi­ty measures are necessary when flying,” he said. “I don’t think the TSA would want to Mezes checked her bags and walked through a metal detector at the Toronto air­port, she faced yet another security check. 
“I had to get my hands swabbed,” Mezes said. “They told me they were checking for any chemical substances, which I didn’t even know they did at airports” 
Junior Taylor Popplewell said she had an “invasive” pat 
“I defnitely think these measures are necessary for international fights, but I don’t think they need to do quite as invasive searches for domestic fights.” 
Taylor Popplewell junior 

create more work for them­selves … They have a better idea about security than I do.” 
But body scanners weren’t the only additional security measure in place over the hol­iday. 
After sophomore Christina down before she boarded her flight for Minneapolis out of Cancun, Mexico. 
“They sepa­rated us into groups of girls and boys and everyone had to get individu­ally pat down at the gate, even after we had done the regular securi­
ty checks,” Popplewell said. “When we were in the Minneapolis airport, the U.S. officials were pulling people out of the line for random searches.” 
Although Popplewell said that she found the pat down in Mexico awkward, she appreciated the safety meas­ures. 
“I definitely think these measures are necessary for international flights, but I don’t think they need to do quite as invasive searches for domestic flights,” she said. 
Sophomore Selina Okonokhua flew from South Bend to Atlanta to go home for Thanksgiving and saw an increase in security at the Atlanta airport. 
“There were 300,000 people flying into that airport on the same day so there was a lot of security,” she said. “TSA would randomly pull people out of the security line and take them to rooms where they would be searched. I saw five people pulled out while I was waiting.” 
Okonokhua said she finds all the increase security “annoy­ing,” but said flyers should know what to expect when they fly during the holiday season. 
“People know they’re going to be pat down and searched when they go to the airport,” she said. 

Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 




U.S. says leaks are a crime 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Striking back, the Obama administration brand­ed the WikiLeaks release of more than a quarter-million sensitive files an attack on the United States Monday and raised the prospect of criminal prosecutions in connection with the exposure. The Pentagon detailed new secu­rity safeguards, including restraints on small computer flash drives, to make it harder for any one person to copy and reveal so many secrets. 
The young Army Pfc. suspected of stealing the diplomatic memos, many of them classified, and feed­ing them to WikiLeaks may have defeated Pentagon security sys­tems using little more than a Lady Gaga CD and a portable computer memory stick. 
The soldier, Bradley Manning has not been charged in the latest release of internal U.S. govern­ment documents. But officials said he is the prime suspect partly because of his own description of how he pulled off a staggering heist of classified and restricted material. 
“No one suspected a thing,” Manning told a confidant after­ward, according to a log of his computer chat published by Wired.com. “I didn’t even have to hide anything.” 
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton asserted Monday that WikiLeaks acted illegally in posting the material. She said the administration was taking “aggressive steps to hold respon­sible those who stole this informa­tion.” 
Attorney General Eric Holder said the government was mount­ing a criminal investigation, and the Pentagon was tightening access to information, including restricting the use of computer storage devices such as CDs and flash drives. 
“This is not saber-rattling,” Holder said. Anyone found to have broken American law “will be held responsible.” 
Holder said the latest disclo­sure, involving classified and sen­sitive State Department docu­ments, jeopardized the security of the nation, its diplomats, intelli­gence assets and relationships with foreign governments. 
A weary-looking Clinton agreed. 
“I want you to know that we are taking aggressive steps to hold responsible those who stole this information,” Clinton said. She spoke in between calls to foreign capitals to make amends for scathing and gossipy memos never meant for foreign eyes. 
Manning is charged in military court with taking other classified material later published by the online clearinghouse WikiLeaks. It is not clear whether others such as WikiLeaks executives might be charged separately in civilian courts. 
Clinton said the State Department was adding security protections to prevent another breach. The Pentagon, embar­rassed by the apparent ease with which secret documents were passed to WikiLeaks, had detailed some of its new precautions Sunday. 
Col. Dave Lapan, a Pentagon spokesman, said it was possible that many people could be held accountable if they were found to have ignored security protocols or somehow enabled the download without authorization. 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 

page 6 Tuesday, November 30, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Is this real life? 

Thanks November. It’s been surreal. 
The magic started three Saturdays ago, when Notre Dame beat Utah. To be precise, the Irish football team wafflestomped a ranked team in Notre Dame Stadium and it was glori­ous. Then, Notre Dame took over New York City and beat Army. I did-n’t get to go to Yankee Stadium, but watching that nearly-pristine Irish victory on Jordan Gamble TV injected a whole lot of 

Scene 
Editor 
excitement into 
my rebounding school spirit. 

All of Thanksgiving week, all I could think about was the coming weekend, when I would head out to Los Angeles with the rest of the seniors on The Observer’s editorial board. 
On Friday afternoon, I hopped off the plane at LAX with a dream and my Notre Dame hoodie.When I looked to my right, I didn’t see the Hollywood sign, but I did see the entrance to Disneyland, which was just down the road from our hotel in Orange County. While the rest of the Notre Dame fans went to a pep rally in the hotel’s Grand Ballroom, The Observer seniors bought some discounted evening tick­ets and got psyched up by riding Space Mountain. You know it’s been a good three weeks when the Happiest Place on Earth is just a pregame. 
From the start on Saturday evening, the atmosphere felt ripe for an Irish victory. Our seats were in a nice little block of Irish fans in the west end-zone. That vantage point gave me flashbacks to the freshmen section in Notre Dame Stadium, where I first stood four years ago, all full of hope and certainty that, yes, we’d win over all. 
The tacky wonder that is the Coliseum’s Jumbotron frequently had more spirit than the docile USC crowd. The only time I felt like I was in hostile territory was when the Trojans tied it up and then bounced ahead in the second half. 
Once we scored again, however, the rain proved too much for the fair-weather fans. The Coliseum looked half-Irish and sounded like South Bend. 
The final few minutes are still streaming through my head: What is this business? Is this a Notre Dame crowd cheering loud and a Notre Dame team being absolutely confi­dent? Are we really going to beat USC, at USC, in the rain, with a freshman quarterback? Did Ronald Johnson really just miss that pass? And oh my God, an interception! Harrison Smith got an interception! On the goal line! This is so happening! This is so hap­pening right now, and I’m here, and it’s very loud, and I can’t really breathe because I’m screaming so much and the clock is running out and yes! We beat USC! And now we’re screaming the Alma Mater and skip­ping out of the Coliseum singing the fight song and dang it, four years of waiting and wanting and hoping are validated. 
Thanks Notre Dame football. It’s been real. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 

Ask the GreenMan 
Editor’s Note: This column is the first of a regular biweekly advice series about environmental issues from the Office of Sustainability. If you would like to submit a question for the GreenMan to answer in the Ask the GreenMan Viewpoint section, please email askgreenman@gmail.com 
Dear GreenMan, 
This time of year I always find my bank account empty. Between traveling to see family, buying Christmas pres­ents for everyone and supporting my caffeine habit during finals, my budget goes out the window. Although this isn’t a traditional “green” question, can you help me out? 
— Broke in Badin 
Dear Broke in Badin, I know just how you feel. Believe it or 
Dear GreenMan, 
I really want to go to our bowl game this December, but I’m concerned about the environmental impact of traveling. Is it better to drive or to fly? 
—Fan in Fisher 
Dear Fan in Fisher, 
As a diehard fan myself, I admire your devotion to the team as well as your eco-consciousness. Our bowl is expected to be somewhere in one of the southernmost U.S. states, mean­ing a trip of more than 1,000 miles each way. For short plane rides (under 300 miles), planes are way more energy-intensive than cars 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
not, so does the federal government. A few weeks ago, the chairmen of the bipartisan National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform released a preliminary report of their recommendations for achieving a bal­anced federal budget by 2015. Their report offers 58 action items that would result in over $200 billion in savings by 2015. 
Among these 58 proposals, the report offers specific suggestions like setting copiers to double-side jobs by default, encouraging video conferenc­ing to cut federal travel expenditures, improving the fuel efficiency of the fed­eral fleet, using more energy efficient computer settings and technologies to reduce wasted electricity and com­pletely eliminating the Department of Energy’s research funding for fossil fuels. 
These efficiency measures amount to approximately $3 billion in savings by 
because most of the fuel is used for take-off and landing. But taking a plane all the way to the bowl is only a little worse than driving a car there by yourself. 
However, if two people share a car, that’s half the emissions. If four peo­ple share the car, that’s a quarter the emissions … you get the idea. If you can’t take a bus or a train, carpooling is definitely the best way to reduce your impact. 
You might say, “But the plane is fly­ing anyway, so isn’t it better to hop on than to drive?” It turns out that fuel usage in planes is directly correlated with the weight onboard, plus the more people want to fly, the more 2015. Clearly, there are differences in scale between your budget and that of the federal government, but you may be able to benefit from some of the same approaches. Saving paper is a good place to start: Try sending e-Christmas cards and opting out of gift wrap. 

To more efficiently support that caf­feine addiction, make sure to bring your reusable coffee mug and get your discount at campus cafes. While we’re on the reusable topic, a reusable water bottle provides 100 percent savings while hydrating you in an eco-friendly manner. 
When you’re ready to head out after finals, find a friend to carpool home with and you can split gas and tolls. If you’re creative, you may even find you can make Christmas presents yourself out of materials you have. 
Merry Christmas! 
— The GreenMan 
flights airlines will schedule. 
In short, car plus friends is a much better choice than flying. 
Go Irish! 
—The GreenMan 
Have a question about the environment or how to go green in your personal life? Wondering about the ethics of dating someone who drives a Hummer? Curious about eco-friendly purchasing options? The GreenMan will be here every other week to answer your questions: email askthegreenman@gmail.com. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Keep on going and the chancesare you will stumble on something,perhaps when you are least expect­ing it. I have never heard of anyonestumbling on somethingsitting down.” 
Charles F. Kettering 
U.S. electrical engineer & inventor 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“You are not here merely to make aliving. You are here to enable the world to live more amply, with greater vision, and with a finerspirit of hope and achievement. Youare here to enrich the world. You impoverish yourself if you forgetthis errand.” 
Woodrow Wilson 28th U.S. President 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 

Tuesday, November 30, 2010 page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

I am thankful for Hannah and Friends 
Hannah and Friends is hosting its annual Thanksgiving potluck for family, parents, residents, young adults and children who are enrolled in the many programs. My son, now a resident there, went on his weekly shopping trip with his housemates, with the support from Mosaic staff. My son decided to buy a ham with his food stamps to contribute to this festive occasion. Being able to make this decision independently made him feel quite proud. He wants to give back to his neighbors and friends. I am thankful that I can still learn valuable lessons from my special son as he continues to grow and learn at this very beautiful place. These fine people with different abilities, teach valuable lessons, if only society would hunger to learn from them. 
“Each one of them is Jesus in disguise.” — Mother Teresa 
Katherine Robinson Coleman 
alumna Class of 1978 Nov. 23 
UWIRE 


Banning earmarks, a ‘solution to nowhere’ 
There’s an old adage of government necting the mainland to an island spending, often attributed to the late with a population of about fifty. Sen. Everett Dirkson: “A billion here, However, for every useless bridge a billion there, and pretty soon you’re and beer museum — whether you’ll talking real regard that Wisconsin expense as 
Steven Zoeller 
money.” worthwhile or not is a matter of taste The remark — there’s a charity or medical insti-
The Oklahoma 
still echoes in tute that receives funding it wouldn’t 
Daily 

the halls of usually get without earmarks. Congress, mostly If the problem is money going to ignored by politicians who would undeserving projects, then why not rather waste time trying to ban ear-ban that instead? marking, a useful practice which Which brings the focus on the politi­accounts for only 1 percent of the cians who’ve been fighting earmarks annual federal budget. all along, most famously Sen. John 
Republicans and Democrats alike McCain, who recently teamed up with hail it as a step towards government Oklahoma’s own Sen. Tom Coburn. accountability and a shrinking deficit. Together, they are pushing for a 
Whether this is lame duck grand-Senate vote on an earmark moratori­standing or they seriously believe um. their own claims, it only takes a quick McCain and Coburn maintain that review of facts to realize it’s a step earmarks are corrupting and shady, backwards. but in more cases they actually serve 
The very nature of earmarks is dis-as tools of compromise. tributive. By definition, they are They’re also fairly transparent, with appropriations of funds in a spending a modern application process and bill to benefit local projects. records kept on representative and 
This means attaching less earmarks senator websites. doesn’t make the original bill any Again, if politicians have problems lighter, it only sends the funds in with the process, why not reform it fewer directions. rather than pass a temporary ban? 
Recall, as mentioned earlier, that It’s counterproductive and keeps earmarks account for only 1 percent funding from worthwhile recipients of the annual federal budget, or $16 on the local level. billion — not “real” money by any Interestingly, Oklahoma’s other means, and a trifle compared to that Senator, Jim Inhofe, wants to keep wasted in health care spending. earmarks, for some of the reasons 
Combine this fact with your knowl-listed above. edge of earmarks, and you’ll be He’s advised to keep that position, strained to make a strong logical link as are any other fiscal conservatives between banning them and shrinking who’ve come to recognize this as an the deficit. illusion of progress. 
Sen. Mitch McConnell — who until Sen. Coburn once said, “We’ve got recently championed earmarks to to start doing the things most impor­vastly improve the capitol of his state tant first and least important last.” of Kentucky — claims that “the abuse If the new Republicans in Congress of [earmarking] has caused truly want to start an era of fiscal Americans to view it as a symbol of responsibility and deficit manage-the waste and out-of-control spending ment, a ban on earmarks belongs that every Republican in Washington near the bottom of the list, if it is determined to fight.” belongs on the list at all. They need to 
We can agree with everything but start looking at “real money.” his solution. Yes, earmarks are a symbol, but that’s it. In a way, he This column first appeared in the Nov. admits a ban would be merely sym-29 edition of the The Oklahoma Daily, the bolic. publication serving the University of 
And indeed, there have been cases Oklahoma. of abuse; that which comes to mind The views expressed in this column first is the infamous “bridge to are those of the author and not nowhere,” an Alaskan bridge con-necessarily those of The Observer. 



UWIRE WikiLeaking credibility 
If you’ve figured out the true inten-could be jeopardized. 
tions of WikiLeaks and its founder One might argue that Assange has 
Julian Assange, please let me know. no vendetta against the United States 
In the meantime, I’m starting to feel and that he only publishes these 
troubled, even defensive, about the U.S.-focused documents because they 
group’s are what is available to his group. 
mass Alexander R. Konrad Consider Assange’s own words, how-
releases of ever: “The material that we are 
U.S. govern-The Harvard about to release covers essentially ment confi-Crimson every major issue in every country in dential docu-the world.” So, ignoring the Assange ments. arrogance factor, we have confiden-
Yesterday, WikiLeaks announced it tial U.S. government documents on 
was under cyber attack. The every major issue in the world. Am I 
Distributed Denial-of-Service has the only person who doesn’t believe 
been popular in recent months; most that no matter what misdeeds the 
notably, government websites in the United States would want covered 
United States and South Korea came up, those issues also include impor­
under this type of attack in the sum-tant ones in which U.S. secrecy is 
mer of 2009. U.S. cyber experts beneficial to the public good? 
learned from that DDoS assault, and The State Department has taken 
they may have put it to their own use the position that these documents 
yesterday (debating the ethics of were obtained illegally and will risk 
such an attack is a worthwhile the lives of various individuals. 
endeavor for another time). It would Assange responded by offering to 
certainly not be surprising, as the negotiate on individual redactions, a 
nation seems uniquely under pres-possible compromise with which the 
sure from Assange and his team. U.S. government refused to partici-
Adding information to the public pate. Even assuming that this offer of 
domain on important issues — this is partial redactions meets the concern 
a journalistic duty few would deny. of individuals’ immediate safety, it 
Major publications will certainly be does not address the broader possi­
excited to see what WikiLeaks pub-bility of ambassadors’ efforts being 
lishes this time, as they have in the undermined in worthwhile efforts 
past. The New York Times has added such as helping to ensure the protec­
a whole feature, “The War Logs,” to tion of aid organizations in those 
analyze WikiLeaks’ postings on the nations. 
Iraq war. Yet this latest batch of doc-WikiLeaks’ founder seems to 
uments concerns U.S. diplomatic believe that any secrecy or confiden­
affairs around the world, from confi-tiality by a government, or at least 
dential assessments by ambassadors the U.S. government, is inherently 
about foreign leaders to the private suspect. Yet secrecy is not always 
communiqués from Washington to sinister. The unfortunate by-product 
individual embassies. This latest of this release is that, as WikiLeaks 
broadside from WikiLeaks makes the publishes by massive salvo, not by 
journalistic position more troubling. individual scoop, the United States 
In a blog post yesterday, Blake will suffer politically in areas we 
Hounshell of Foreign Policy asked if cannot yet predict. 
WikiLeaks has gone too far. Like the rest of the journalistic 
Hounshell admitted to being eager to field, I am usually excited by the 
see the documents but expressed prospect of breaking news that holds 
doubt about undermining the ability governments and large corporations 
of diplomats to do their jobs and accountable for their actions. As an 
WikiLeaks’ dismissive stance on its American, however, I cannot help but 
role. The group argues that the feel uneasy at WikiLeaks’ actions. 
world should have as many classified Whether by circumstance or by 
documents as possible — any nation, design, Assange seems to be harming 
any time. my country’s ability to operate. 
That’s not really how it’s working Because I reject the notion that all out. It’s now increasingly hard to American operations are wrongful, I ignore an anti-American vendetta in cannot view this release of docu­Assange’s efforts. Documents about ments as simply a journalist’s bonan-
U.S. operations in Iraq and za. Afghanistan may have informed the We can hope that the release of public in meaningful ways — even if these documents encourages govern-they apparently had nothing new for ment accountability and contributes those living in the region. With the to the public discourse. Then State Department’s files, however, Assange’s latest efforts will have there will certainly be revelations, yielded a positive contribution for and many seem preliminarily more the global community. I’m now likely to embarrass and damage U.S. increasingly suspicious that this will foreign policy than do anything else. not be the case. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton has been leading efforts to mitigate the This column first appeared in the Nov. upcoming onslaught by reaching out 29 edition of the The Harvard Crimson, to world leaders before ambassa-the publication serving Harvard dors’ private observations of them University. come to light. Initiatives such as The views expressed in this column START — the Strategic Arms are those of the author and not Reduction Treaty with Russia — necessarily those of The Observer. 

The Observer 



Scene

page 8 Tuesday, November 30, 2010 



Ransom,” it’s easy to catch the 
By COURTNEY ECKERLE 

jump-jive and shake, rattle and roll 
Scene Writer 

Costello fever. Not as sweet as it 
Not many British artists can sling seems at first, it’s also an old-fash­on the boots of Americana music ioned protest of the wolves on Wall quite so comfortably as Elvis Street, with the lines, “Mother’s in Costello, which he does, and then the kitchen picking bones for break-some, on his latest album, “National fast/There’s a wolf at the window Ransom.” His 10th album in 11 with a ravening maw.” years, it’s the “Jimmie result of years of 
Standing in the dabbling in every 
Rain” is a ghoul-genre known to 
ish, vaudevillian man, and in 
tune about a many parts the 
failed music hall best music past 
singer who stum­decades have had 
bles from one to offer. It’s a jiv­
indiscretion to the ing, dance hall, 
next. The song vaudeville, rock 
showcases the ‘n roll serenade 
morose feeling of courtesy of the 
Jimmie getting powerhouse 
drenched at a musician and 
Lancashire train songwriter 
station. Costello. 
“Where have Paired for the 
you been all my second time with life?” is what producer T-Bone one feels after a Burnett (the first time being his last listen to “A Slow Drag with album, “Secret, Profane and Josephine.” Songs these days need Sugarcane”), Costello cements his more whistling; how is it that we status as a musical bard, tramping didn’t know it until now? his way through “That’s Not musical history. 
The Part of The storytelling National Ransom Him You’re on this album is 
Leaving” is 


Elvis Costello
both heart 

the depressing wrenching and 
country slow fun. Label: Hear Music/ Universal song you love The finger-
to croon on a

Best Tracks: “My Lovely Jezebel,” 
picking “Dr. 

long, lonely Watson, I pre-“ASlow Drag with road trip sume,” for 
home, prefer-

Josephine,” “That’s Not The Part of 
instance, is an ably with a 
Him You’re Leaving” 
ode to real life 

howling hound 87 -year-old 

dog at your bluegrass musi­
side. It’s also cian Doc 
perfect for a Watson, whom 
leading man Costello met 
to drown his when perform-
sorrows in at ing at the annu­
a dusty saloon al MerleFest somewhere music festival Watson hosts yearly in after losing his lady love (he thinks North Carolina. Costello says in the for forever, but we’ll see). trailer for “National Ransom” he It may not be the most cohesive, wrote it after being inspired by a flowing album on the books, but it particularly poetic conversation always feels genuine, and supplies a about Watson’s life. tune for every age, genre and heart. 
With lyrics like, “Running pell-mell “National Ransom” is the Elvis and harum-scarum/Running as hot Costello we’ve come to know and as they do or dare/Stick out your love. tongue/And drink down all the venom/From Cut-Throat Cuthbert” Contact Courtney Eckerle at 
in the title track “National cecker01@saintmarys.edu 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 



Scene

Tuesday, November 30, 2010 page 9 


By CLAIRE STEPHENS 
Scene Writer 
“Tangled,” the new princess story directed by Nathan Greno and Bryon Howard and produced by Roy Conli, is yet another cute, col­
orful and crisp 3-D feature by Disney, just the kind of movie view­ers have come to expect. Starring the vocal talents of Mandy Moore as the endearing Rapunzel, Zachary Levi as the charming Flynn Ryder, and Donna Murphy as the savvy but evil Mother Gothel, “Tangled” is a fairly cookie cutter Disney classic fairy tale for the hol­idays. 
Continuing the tradition of Disney’s more recent films starring strong, coming-of-age princesses, Rapunzel is exactly where we expect, longing for what we expect her to want — a way into the world and out of that tower. The audience finds themselves in the typical fan­tasy kingdom composed of a happy lower class, ruthless royal guards, surprisingly lovable thieves and thugs and a princess in a pink and purple dress. Complete with a vil­lain played by the foster mother and good-looking hero/love interest come to help set her free from eternal grounding, all the ingredi­ents are present to make a success­ful Disney animated feature. 
With a few pleasant and passion­ate songs thrown in, “Tangled” pleases musical, adventurous and overall cheerful audiences alike. Though not nearly as scary, dra­matic or suspenseful as some of the Disney masterpieces of the 1990’s, it is to be expected for a film whose target audience is younger girls. Although there is intermittent action, a movie predominantly about a timid girl with fabulous hair who longs to escape and fulfill her dreams is hardly an hour and a half to please most fellows in the crowd. Despite a few exciting chase scenes involving royal guards and Viking-esque thugs, it just barely earns itself a PG rating. 
Of course a Disney movie would not be complete without humor. Though both the physical and visu­al humor to please the children and the somewhat clever dialogue to please those who took the children are present, don’t expect to be laughing your head off throughout the movie. 

With the strong, obvious fairy tale theme, this colorful and fun film is a pretty good choice for a predominantly female audience. Though it ’s an entertaining retelling of a classic fairy tale, the young female protagonist’s efforts 

Tangled 

Disney 

Director: Nathan Greno, Byron Howard Starring: Mandy Moore, Zachary Levi, Donna Murphy 

are still strongly colored by a princess theme. Even the heroic male lead next to her matches the female ideal — clever, handsome and a bad boy—in Disney terms, anyway. 
Walk, but don’t necessarily run, to see “Tangled” with younger sis­ters or cousins. It has enough action and humor to keep you interested, enough fun music to get you humming and enough of a plot to keep you from falling asleep, but not enough to keep you on the edge of your seat. You might not guess the whole plot, but you’ll get pretty close. Surely we have all come to the realization that Disney movies are good, but terribly predictable. Not this decade’s next animated masterpiece, but another enjoyable Disney movie. Overall, “Tangled” is another addition to the Disney princess repertoire. 
Contact Claire Stephens cstephe4@nd.edu 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, November 30, 2010 
NCAA FOOTBALL 





TCU set for Big East move 
Associated Press 
FORT WORTH, Texas — TCU is getting out of future debates about whether the Horned Frogs deserve to be in a BCS game. They are joining a league with automatic access. 
The Frogs won’t have to be a BCS buster when they move to the Big East Conference, starting with the 2012 season. Win their new league and they will be guaranteed a spot in one of the big-money games. 
In the latest restructuring of the college football landscape, TCU’s board of trustees unani­mously approved an invitation Monday to join the Big East in football and all other sports. The move from the Mountain West Conference becomes official July 1, 2012. 
TCU athletic director Chris Del Conte said gaining automatic-qualifying status “was a big fac­tor” in the move and gives the Horned Frogs “the greatest opportunity to compete for the national championship.” 
The Big East, currently with eight football teams, has one of six automatic BCS slots. 
“Access got easier, not the road,” said Frogs coach Gary Patterson, whose third-ranked Frogs (12-0) wrapped up their second consecutive undefeated regular season and Mountain West title with a 66-17 win at New Mexico on Saturday. 
TCU is third in the BCS stand­ings—the highest-ranked non-automatic qualifying team—and is in line for a chance to play for the national championship if Auburn or Oregon lose next weekend. The Frogs likely will play in the Rose Bowl if Auburn and Oregon both win. 
“Who would have thought five years ago that the guaranteed fallback position is, you’re going to the Rose Bowl, and one loss you’re in the national champi­onship?” Del Conte told a room filled with supporters and staff. “We’re going to Pasadena, let’s get fired up. We’re going to the Big East, let’s get fired up. … It’s a great time to be a Frog.” 
The pending departure of TCU continues a big shuffle for the Mountain West, which last sum­mer announced that Boise State was leaving the WAC to join its league in 2011. That was expect­ed to bolster the strength of the MWC and put the league in bet­ter position for possibly gaining an automatic BCS berth in the future. But now so much has changed. 
Utah is leaving the Mountain West for the expanded Pac-12 and BYU is going independent. Fresno State and Nevada, and maybe Hawaii, are going from the WAC to the MWC in 2012 after TCU leaves. 

“Today’s intercollegiate athlet­ics environment is very fluid,” Mountain West Conference com­missioner Craig Thompson said in a statement. “Our board of directors and directors of athlet­ics, as they have throughout the history of the MWC and with even more focus recently, will continue to analyze the land­scape and chart our course in the context of ongoing changes.” 
Thompson said there were “conversations already under way with potential future mem­bers.” 
Del Conte said losing BYU and Utah was a “significant blow” to the Mountain West. 
“It was not the same league that we joined,” he said. “It’s not the same home that we bought, it’s not same home we were invited to, and things changed, the landscape changed.” 
Boise State president Bob Kustra called TCU’s decision dis­appointing “but not entirely sur­prising given the stakes of auto­matic qualification in the BCS bowl system and relative lack of access for non-AQ conferences.” He said the Mountain West was still a good fit for his school. 
TCU could help the MWC land an automatic bid to the BCS after the Frogs are gone. 
TCU’s excellent 2010 (and it’s 2011 performance) will count toward the MWC’s resume when the conferences are evaluated after the 2011 season. 
BCS officials have said a non-automatic qualifying conference could earn an automatic bid for the 2012 and ’13 seasons. 
And if the Big East’s BCS bid comes under scrutiny when the next TV contract ends after the 2013 season, TCU’s 2010 season will also count toward the Big East’s resume. 
“It’s too soon to speculate about what the BCS thresholds will be for the 2015 and beyond, but it seems likely that TCU’s move will enhance the Big East’s position,” BCS executive director Bill Hancock said in an e-mail. 
The Big East has schools in nine of the nation’s 35 largest media markets and will being adding Dallas/Fort Worth, the fifth largest. 
“Located in one of the top five media markets in the country, TCU also enables the Big East to extend its media footprint, which already encompasses more than a quarter of the country,” league commissioner John Marinatto said. 
The only current Big East team ranked in the AP poll is No. 23 West Virginia (8-3, 4-2 Big East), which is 24th in the BCS stand­ings. Connecticut (7-4, 4-2) could get the league’s automatic BCS spot. 
TCU might not be headed to a BCS game without Boise State’s loss Friday night in overtime at Nevada. Had the Broncos remained undefeated, there was a real possibility that the Broncos could have passed the Frogs in the BCS standings and been the only non-AQ team to get into one of the top-level bowls. 
“This is a great move,” Patterson said. “I’ll say this, we don’t seem to get bored around this place.The one last mark people have held against in recruiting is that we were not an automatic qualifier. Now that’s been erased.” 
TCU was a BCS buster for the first time last season, then lost to Boise State in the Fiesta Bowl. 
The Frogs have won 25 con­secutive regular-season games, and 38 of 41 overall. The only losses in that span were in the Fiesta Bowl, and games at Oklahoma and Utah. 
NHL 


Crosby leads Pens in 7th straight win 
Associated Press 

NEW YORK — Sidney Crosby extended his point streak to 13 games and the Pittsburgh Penguins won their seventh straight by beating the New York Rangers 3-1 on Monday night. 
The Penguins, 9-0-1 in their past 10, haven’t lost since falling to the Rangers at home in a shootout on Nov. 15. Their previ­ous loss in regulation was Nov. 11 against Boston. It is the Penguins’ longest winning streak since another seven-game run from Oct. 8-23, 2009. 
Pascal Dupuis scored in the first period, and goals by Kris Letang and Chris Conner in the second stretched Pittsburgh’s lead to 3-0. Marc-Andre Fleury finished with 25 saves to earn his ninth win of the season. Fleury has played in every game of the Penguins’ streak except for their previous victory on Saturday, when Brent Johnson beat Calgary on the strength of Crosby’s hat trick that included the captain’s 200th NHL goal. 
Crosby, the leader in votes for the upcoming All-Star game, assisted on Letang’s fifth of the season. Crosby has 12 goals and 14 assists during his point streak. He is the league’s scoring leader with 41 points, two more than Tampa Bay’s Steven Stamkos. 
Crosby hit the post with a shot in the closing minutes. 
Marian Gaborik returned from a one-game absence, despite still feeling the effects of the flu, and scored in the second period to cut the Rangers’ deficit to 3-1 with his fifth goal. Henrik Lundqvist stopped 24 shots while making his fourth straight start following a two-game rest. 
The Rangers earned a rare vic­tory over the Penguins in the only other meeting this season, despite not having a single power play. 
But Pittsburgh re-established its dominance over New York in the rematch, improving to 18-5-8 since the start of the 2006-07 sea­son. 
Despite confetti that fell onto the ice late in the game, there was lit­tle for Rangers fans at Madison Square Garden to celebrate. 
New York had won four of five overall before Monday, including back-to-back wins over Florida and Nashville on its just-complet­ed road trip. The Rangers fell to 5-7-1 at home. 
The Penguins started doing damage 5:10 in, less than a minute after Pittsburgh forward Chris Kunitz recorded the first shot for either team. 
New York’s Ruslan Fedotenko dropped the puck at his skates in his zone, but it got away to Maxime Talbot, who skated in front of the net and beat Lundqvist from in close to make it 1-0. The Rangers held an 8-6 shots advantage through one period, but their control didn’t last. 
Pittsburgh broke out fast in the second and spent most of the period in the Rangers’ end with the puck on their sticks. 
The Penguins jumped out to a 13-3 shots edge in the period and broke open the game when Letang and Conner connected 
1:15 apart to build the lead to 3-0 late in the frame. 
Letang took a beautiful back­hand pass from Crosby that went from the right circle to the left for a one-timer that got past Lundqvist at 12:01. Conner received the puck from Tyler Kennedy in the slot and zipped a shot by Rangers defenseman Steve Eminger and in at 13:16. 
Gaborik got the Rangers on the board with an unscreened snap shot that found its way past Fleury with 3:41 left in the sec­ond. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

If you or someone you care about Sandy: I want you to kill every Judge Smails: Ty, what did you has been sexually assaulted, we gophers on the golf course! shoot today?WANTED FOR SALE PERSONAL can help. Carl Spackler: Correct me if I'm Ty Webb: Oh, I don't keep score. wrong Sandy, but if I kill all the Judge Smails: Then how do you 
For more information, visit Notre golfers, they're gonna lock me up measure yourself with other DRIVE FOR MARTEN! ....Enjoy a 6 Bedroom 2 Bath house available UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu. and throw away the key... golfers? professional driving career: *Great for 2011-12 school year. go it alone. Notre Dame has many ———————————————-Sandy: Not golfers, you great fool! Ty Webb: By height. Regional Runs *Weekly Home resources in place to assist you. CADDYSHACK QUOTES Gophers! The *little* *brown*, ———————————————­Times *Top Equipment Close to campus -If you or someone you love needs Judge Smails: You know, you *furry* *rodents* -! Hey, doll. Could you scare up *Outstanding Benefits *Certified, confidential support or assistance, should play with Dr. Beeper and ———————————————-another round for our table over Top Pay Carrier Must have: CDL-A student rental area. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 myself. I mean, he's been club Judge Smails: Danny, I'm having a here? And tell the cook this is low and 1yr T/T Exp. Hazmat &amp; or Ann Firth at 1-2685. champion for three years running party this weekend. grade dog food. I've had better food TWIC preferred. EEOE/AAP Call for details For more information, visit ND's and I'm no slouch myself. [pauses a beat] at the ballgame, you know? This Owners/Ops Welcome! 866-365-website at: http://pregnancysup-Ty Webb: Don't sell yourself short Judge Smails: How would you like steak still has marks from where the 4903 www.Drive4Marten.com 574-329-3849 port@nd.edu. Judge, you're a tremendous slouch. to come over and mow my lawn? jockey was hitting it. ———————————————-———————————————-———————————————-———————————————-———————————————-———————————————-
Tuesday, November 30, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
NFL 




Johnson, Finnegan handed fnes, not suspended 
night, and Johnson said he was relieved to learn that he’d be allowed to play. 
“That’s something I have been thinking about ever since the incident happened,” Johnson said. “I’m happy that I’m not suspended. At the same time, I’m not happy about my actions.” 
When asked if he would appeal the fine, Johnson said “probably not.” 
“Just looking at it, I mean, what can I say?” Johnson said. “There’s not really anything I can say, or tell them.” 
Finnegan did not speak to reporters after Sunday’s game, but talked about it Monday on his weekly radio show. Finnegan said Johnson “snapped,” and added that if he had punched Johnson, the NFL likely would have suspended him. 
“This is the NFL, not the NHL, and it’s a higher standard,” Finnegan said. “That’s the NHL. They fight. They get penalized for that. The NFL, it’s not even heard of ... you do that, you’re suspended. Hands down. That’s what I’ve been taught. 
“I guess he got his money’s worth.” 
This was the second time they scuffled during a game. Last season, Johnson was fined $7,500 for taking Finnegan to the ground by the face mask. 
Finnegan plans to appeal the fine for Sunday’s brawl. He told TitanInsider late Monday that Johnson went into “sheer rage” and that he still doesn’t quite understand why the receiver reacted by throwing three punches at him. 
“That’s the crazy part, because I felt like the game was going pretty good, other than the fact that he probably had that built up over last year’s time,” Finnegan said. 
Finnegan also told the Web site he didn’t think he deserved a suspension or a fine. 
“I didn’t throw a punch. It’s not a fineable offense,” he said. “There’s nothing I did that I felt like was a fineable offense. Maybe a flag for quick-jamming him and hitting him in the face mask. But there’s no way that I thought that that would ever be a suspension.” 

Johnson wouldn’t say if he was surprised that Finnegan wasn’t suspended. The Titans (5-6) play Jacksonville (6-5) on Sunday. 
“He can say what he wants to say,” Johnson said. “I’m not going to keep talking about him. He’s just looking for attention, so I’m not worried about that.” 
Finnegan was fined for per­sonal fouls in three consecutive games earlier this season and was warned by the league after the third incident to watch his behavior after the whistle. 
Johnson, meanwhile, has built a clean-cut, soft-spoken image in eight seasons. He doesn’t think the ugly incident will change that. 
“I think anybody who really knows me, I don’t think I’ve damaged my reputation,” he said. “I can say that you can only take so much from a per­son before you explode.” 
Texans coach Gary Kubiak said he never expected Johnson to be suspended. 
“I didn’t think that would hap­pen,” he said. “I think the league does a great job of evalu­ating every situation. Andre’s reputation as a player and a person speaks for itself.” 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON — Andre Johnson called NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell on Monday morning, before the league fined Houston’s star receiver and Tennessee cornerback Cortland Finnegan $25,000 each for their fight a day earlier. 
Johnson did not speak with Goodell, but left a message. Johnson said that Goodell called back and left a voicemail while the Texans were preparing to practice on Monday night. 
“I just think that was some­thing that I needed to do, just to communicate with him and let him know my side,” Johnson said. “I’ll give him a call back and whenever we get a chance, we’ll talk.” 
Neither player was suspended after they slugged it out in the fourth quarter of Houston’s 20-0 victory. 
Finnegan set off the brawl by jabbing at Johnson’s neck and face mask at the line of scrim­mage. Johnson ripped off Finnegan’s helmet and landed at least two punches to Finnegan’s head and neck. The two spun each other, and Finnegan tore off Johnson’s hel­met before players and referees intervened. 
Houston (5-6) plays at Philadelphia (7-4) on Thursday 



Johnson has been inundated with calls and text messages since the fight, and said he was “tired of talking about it.” He attended Sunday night’s Houston Rockets game with full­back Vonta Leach and got a standing ovation when he was introduced during a timeout. 
“I couldn’t do anything but laugh,” Johnson said. “At the same time, it just shows the fans were still behind me, and still showing support, so I really appreciated it.” 
Titans coach Jeff Fisher, co-chairman of the NFL’s competi­tion committee, spoke with league officials earlier Monday. Fisher said in his opinion Finnegan didn’t throw a punch, but did get Johnson’s face mask. 
“I have very strong opinions about the fact I think he should not be suspended,” Fisher said of Finnegan. “As far as what the league decides to do, that’s a league decision. 
“It’s an unfortunate thing that happens. You’ve got two very talented, good football players competing, and it’s just very unfortunate. It’s not good for our game and I’m just disap­pointed that type of thing hap­pens on the playing field.” 
NFL 


Patriots, Jets prepare for showdown 
Associated Press 
FOXBOROUGH, Mass. — The long weekend is over for the New England Patriots. 
Let the hype begin. 
The Patriots are preparing to host the New York Jets next Monday night in a game that will put the winner in control of the AFC East. 
“They give you a lot to get ready for,” New England coach Bill Belichick said in a conference call Monday. 
Perhaps Belichick, master of the understatement, won’t be the best source for excitement in the next week, but there should be plenty of others as this game approaches. 
Much more is riding on it than the first meeting in Week 2, when the Jets won 28-14 at the Meadowlands. Both teams are 9-2 and the winner will take the lead in the AFC East as well as the overall conference standings with just a month to go in the regular season. 

Belichick politely complimented the Jets and their accomplishments in the nine games since the rivals last met. While the overall records are identical, New York currently holds the tiebreaker with the head-to-head victory and is also 3-0 in the division. But that only gives the Jets a technical edge in the stand­ings, which the Patriots can turn around with a win at home. 
That’s why Belichick says games take on a new meaning after Thanksgiving. 
“I think it’s just obvious. There’s fewer games, (and) a lot of teams are packed closely together. Each game becomes more important, more critical and has bigger impact on the final standings,” he said. “Right now, you just want to put yourself in good position where you’re in contention.” 
Both Belichick and Jets coach Rex Ryan can say that. Even with a loss next week, both teams would be in good position for a wild-card berth, so a third meeting in the playoffs isn’t out of the question. 
“Whatever they’ve had to do, they’ve done it. They’ve really done a good job in clutch situations,” Belichick said of the Jets. “We know there will be some wrinkles there one way or another and we’ll have to adjust to them Monday night.” 
Both teams have had a bit of a break since playing on Thanksgiving, plus a bonus day thanks to the Monday night sched­uling. Extra days this late in the season give the players more recov­ery time, which is especially wel­come as the prime-time showdown approaches. 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 30, 2010 
SMC BASKETBALL 



Belles split weekend games 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
The Belles suffered their first loss of the season Saturday but rebounded Sunday to improve to 5-1 in nonconference play. 
Playing at the Julie Costello Memorial Classic, hosted by Thomas More in Crestview Hills, Ky., Saint Mary’s fell to 
Wilmington, 57­44, and beat Otterbein, 56-51. 
Interim Belles coach Patrick Daniel said the win was crucial for the team to avoid any nega­tive momentum heading into con­ference play. 
“It is always key to be able to bounce back from a loss in your next game. No team 
wants to be on a losing streak, and we certainly did not want to enter conference play on a two-game losing streak,” Daniel said. 
Forward Kelley Murphy and guard Patsy Mahoney, both juniors, were name to the all-tournament team. 
Murphy tallied a double-dou­ble with a game high 26 points and 13 rebounds against Otterbein. Junior guard Patsy Mahoney also registered dou­ble digits with 14 points in the winning effort. Senior Liz Wade had a big hand in the Belles’ victory as she filled up 

the  stat  sheet  with  five  
rebounds, five steals,  five  
assists and three points.  

The Belles got off to a hot start in the first half and had a 30-22 lead at halftime. But they were tested in the second 
“It is always key to be able to bounce back from a loss in your next game. No team wants to be on a losing streak.” 
Patrick Daniel Belles coach 
half when the Cardinals came out of the locker room strong with a 10-2 run to tie the game. Otterbein took a three-point lead, but that was when the Belles 

answered with a run of their own. They reeled off a 12-2 run to take command of the game, and with solid free throw shooting down the stretch, Saint Mary’s put away the Cardinals for good. 
Daniel said he knows how important the Belles’ second half performance was. 
“At half-time we told the team that Otterbein is well-coached and a very good team, so they needed to be prepared for a run. It was our hope to extend the lead early, but we had some turnovers, missed some shots and did not score for the first four minutes of the second half,” Daniel said. “But our team knew that our defense must dictate our offense and having caused 27 turnovers in the game, making some key shots, and going 4­for-4 from the free throw line in the final minute helped lead us in winning this highly con­tested game.” 
Daniel said the team’s first loss to Wilmington included a lot of self-inflicted setbacks that cost the Belles the game. He said they cleaned up many of those mistakes versus the Cardinals and that helped them pull out the win. 
“Saturday’s lost to Wilmington was based on a lot of missed chances and oppor­tunities for us,” Daniel said. “We knew on Sunday that we needed to convert those same type of shots missed on Saturday, continue to play good pressure defense and we would give ourselves a chance of gaining a win against Otterbein.” 
The Belles will be in action next for their home and con­ference opener Saturday against No. 23 Calvin. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 



Bears 
continued from page 16 

Golden Bears to just five points in the first half. Senior forward Carleton Scott led Notre Dame in that game with 16 points and 10 rebounds. He was the only Irish player to score in double figures in each game of the tournament, which earned him a spot on the all-tournament team along with fourth-year forward Tim Abromaitis. 
Notre Dame continued its dominant defensive perform­
ance in the finals as Wisconsin scored just 19 points in the first half in the Irish’s 58-51 win. The Badgers rallied to take an 11­point lead over the Irish in the second half, but Notre Dame used a 15-0 run in the final four 

minutes to pull away. Scott and freshman guard Eric Atkins led Notre Dame with 12 points apiece, and Abromaitis’ 10-point, nine-rebound effort helped him earn the tourna­ment’s Most Valuable Player award. In the final two games of the tournament, Notre Dame held California and Wisconsin to a combined 30.5 percent from the field. 
“I think we showed a lot of people out there that we still have some fight in us,” Abromaitis told the press after the game. 
Irish coach Mike Brey was pleased with his team’s per­formance in the Old Spice Classic and thinks that the wins can help them come tournament time. 
“I learned something about my team that I knew I would down here,” Brey told the press after the game. “You hope to learn while you’re winning, certainly that’s help­ful. But for us right now, this team is very confident.” 
Tonight’s match-up marks the second time that the Irish and Sycamores (3-3) will face off, but a lot has changed for both programs since Notre Dame’s 66-49 win over 

“I think we showed a Indiana State lot of people out there in the 1947­
48, most 

that we still have some 
notably that 

fght in us.” legendary UCLA coach John Wooden 
Tim Abromaitis 
coached the 

Irish forward 
Sycamores at the time. Indiana State is in its first season under coach Greg Lansing. Senior guard Jake Kelly leads Indiana State with 
11.7 points per game and is one of three Sycamores scor­ing in double figures this year. Junior guard Carl Richard has hauled in 9.7 rebounds per game in six contests this year to lead the Sycamores. 
Notre Dame and Indiana State face off at 7:30 p.m. at the Purcell Pavilion. 

Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 


Tuesday, November 30, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
ND VOLLEYBALL 



Team wraps up season with loss at Long Beach 



By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 

The Irish closed out their season at Long Beach State on Saturday with a loss to the host 49ers. The Irish fell to Long Beach 3-0 (26-24, 25-16, 25­
19) on the first day of the Mizuno Thanksgiving Tournament, to finish the sea­son with a record of 18-13. 
Long Beach State (23-7) out­hit the Irish .252 to .113 and will continue its season against San Diego in the first round of the NCAA tournament. This year marks the 49ers’ 24th consecutive bid to the national tournament. 
Kristin Dealy led the offensive attack for Notre Dame. The junior outside hitter recorded 10 kills and 13 digs in the con­test. Big East Rookie of the Year Andrea McHugh also per­formed well for the Irish, pitch­ing in 10 kills and 12 digs. Irish coach Debbie Brown said Dealy and McHugh were not only standouts at Long Beach, but also sources of stability for the team over the entire season. 
“I think that both Kristin and Andrea played very well,” she said. “They were very steady, playing for all six rotations, both defense and offense. They were outstanding during the game and over the course of the season.” 
While Brown was disappoint­ed her team did not qualify for the NCAA tournament this year, she said the team made marked improvements throughout the season. 
“Although we stumbled and put ourselves in a position where we aren’t playing right now, we had a lot of growth this season,” Brown said. “We finished way better in November than we were in August, both individually and as team.” 
Looking to next season, Brown believes that a young roster and a strong recruiting class will propel the team to success, despite losing some strong seniors. 
“Although there will be holes to fill, we think that with the young players we have coming back supplemented with a real­ly strong recruiting class we are in a really good position,” Brown said. “A lot of times this year, we would have four fresh­men on the court at same time. They gained significant playing time, and that will be huge for us when next season rolls around.” 

Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 




Bulldogs 
continued from page 16 

away from Butler early in Sunday’s contest, as the Bulldogs trailed just 16-14 with less than 10 minutes remaining in the first half. Butler’s timely three-point shoot­ing kept the contest close, as the squad shot 30 percent from beyond the arc. 
“They had 10 wide open 3s in the first half,” McGraw said. “They were really open — that’s a prob­lem for our defense. We got caught in screens, we didn’t communicate 
— we just weren’t paying attention enough. I wasn’t really happy with the three-point defense today.” 
Notre Dame’s struggles at the three-point line continued. The team went 0-for-7 from three-point land in the first half, but fin­ished 3-for-13 after Novosel and senior guard Brittany Mallory con­nected in the second. 
“We actually weren’t going to shoot any [threes] in the second half,” McGraw said. “Our best offense was going inside — the mid-post was really open in their zone. We had the weak-side pin. We really could have exploited the post a little bit more, but we did-n’t.” 
Lifted by Novosel’s 20 points and 5 rebounds, the Irish took advan­tage of a porous Butler defense late in the first to extend their lead to 37-21 at the break. Sophomore guard Skylar Diggins chipped in 11 points, seven assists and five rebounds as the squad closed out its third game in three days with a win. 
Diggins said the intense sched­ule over the weekend should bene­fit the team as it prepares for its upcoming match against No. 2 Baylor (7-1) on Wednesday. 
“Definitely playing against feisty opponents such as Butler and Wake Forest and those teams that don’t quit require me playing more minutes than you would like,” Diggins said. “I think this is good for us. We needed more in-game experience for our freshmen. We got to just take care of our bodies and continue to try to stay mental­ly tough.” 

Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 30, 2010 


Senior 
continued from page 14 
Spice Classic affirmed that possibility as a reality. 
The Irish are undefeated through seven games, tied for the best start in Mike Brey’s tenure as head coach, and they have done it collectively. No one player has stood out above the rest as the de facto star of the team, and stretch. But when Nash struggled to get into the flow of the game in the champi­onship against Wisconsin, he sat and Martin contributed when the game was on the line. 
With so many talented play­ers, Notre Dame’s offense doesn’t stall because of one man’s off-night. If Hansbrough isn’t shooting well, Abromaitis will. If the defense is over-playing the 
perimeter, Nash 
can score in the 

that’s just what Notre Dame needs.  “Starting fve seniors who know how to play  paint. Atkins can handle the ball and slow  
While it’s  together, who know  the pace, or  
nice to have a dominant player who can be count­ eachother’s strengths and weaknesses is invaluable.”  Hansbrough can speed things up and put pres­sure on defens­ 
ed on for 25  es.  
points per game, it is also relative- Eric Prister Associate Sports Editor  The most important aspect of this  

ly easy to game plan against. This Irish squad is far from being easily defend­ed. 
That is not to say that par­ticular players haven’t given star performances, only that it has not been the same player every night. Ben Hansbrough led Notre Dame in scoring in each of the first three games and looked to be their go-to guy. But when his hot hand suddenly went cold in Orlando, players like Tim Abromaitis, Carlton Scott and Tyrone Nash picked up the slack. Four Irish players are averaging double digits, which makes them infinitely harder to defend. 
Hansbrough was particular­ly cold in the first round of the Old Spice Classic against Georgia, and Scott Martin looked timid. Because of their diversity, though, Brey was able to give the ball-handling responsibility to Eric Atkins, and Martin sat down the 


Fowlkes 
continued from page 16 
an insurance goal in the final minute to seal a trip to the semifinals. 
“[Tucker] almost came out of the game in the first half because she injured her ankle pretty badly,” Waldrum said. “To see her suck it up and stay in there, and then actu­ally get the game -winning goal and the icing on the cake at the end says a lot about the heart she has to play through the injury. It was a good night.” 
Notre Dame heads to the team, though, is 
not their diver­sity; it is that they are com­fortable utilizing it. Starting five seniors who know how to play together, who know each other’s strengths and weak­nesses is invaluable. They know not only how to put themselves in good spots, but how to put each other in those spots as well. And they have fun doing it. 
Notre Dame is only seven games in, and hasn’t faced a single Big East opponent, but this team is showing signs of life. They give everything they have on the floor, and that effort is paying off. Fortunately, they are talented too, and those two strengths go a long way in the making of a successful season. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
College Cup for the 12th time in program history and the sixth time in seven years. The squad will take on the third-seeded Ohio State Buckeyes Friday for a chance to play for a national title on Sunday. 
“Probably what was one of the hardest draws we’ve had in the four years I’ve been here, and yet I think we prob­ably handled these four games as well as we’ve han­dled [them] in any years,” Waldrum said. “I think the girls have been great about their focus and really paying attention to the game plan.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 



Sioux 
continued from page 16 
Friday’s matchup, dominating the first period and taking a 2­0 lead on the strength of a 15­3 advantage in shots on goal. Notre Dame (9-4-2) was rarely able to break out of its own zone all game Friday night. Though freshman winger David Gerths would bring the Irish back to a single-goal deficit midway through the second period, North Dakota would answer each Notre Dame goal with a score of its own to reopen its two-goal advantage. 
“Our guys weren’t as sharp as they needed to be [Friday],” Jackson said. “The two-goal deficit in the first period put us on our heels a bit. We couldn’t get the job done Friday night.” 
Irish sophomore goaltender Mike Johnson faced 39 shots on the night, finishing the night with 33 saves. 
“It was a challenging envi­ronment for him and our defense didn’t play up to expectations,” Jackson said. “I thought he played well enough to come back the next night [instead of being replaced by 

freshman  Steven  
Summerhays].”  
Johnson  did  just  that  

Saturday night, putting on one of his best performances of the year in the 2-2 draw in front of another sold-out crowd. He made a season-high 39 saves including three crucial saves on the penalty kill in overtime to preserve the tie. 
“Saturday night [Johnson] helped us stay in the game and he did what he had to do,” Jackson said. “He played extremely well on Saturday.” 
The Fighting Sioux broke through first on Saturday at the halfway point of the sec­ond period, but the Irish answered four minutes later with a short-handed goal from freshman TJ Tynan. Notre Dame currently leads the country in shorthanded goals with seven on the season. 
North Dakota opened the third period on the power play and converted to take a 2-1 lead early in the final stanza. As the third period rolled on, it seemed as if the Irish would have to take a disappointing pair of losses back to South Bend, but with just 3:03 remaining in regulation, soph­omore defenseman Sam Calabrese scored his first col­legiate goal off a rebound from a Tynan shot to earn the 2-2 tie. 
“We were a better team on Saturday night,” Jackson said. “We were less impacted by the environment. The kids com­peted hard.” 
The games against North Dakota were the fifth and sixth of an extremely difficult stretch of eight games which started against No. 11 Michigan and then-No. 17 Michigan State. The stretch will close with a trip to Ohio to play two games against No. 6 Miami on Friday and Saturday. 
“It’s a grueling schedule for us. My thing is that if it doesn’t kill you, it makes you stronger, so we’re still alive,” Jackson said. “It’s going to be another challenging series for us. It’s going to be a tough weekend, and we’re going to have to play better than we did last weekend.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 


Senior defenseman Joe Lavin takes a shot on net during Notre Dame’s 4-2 win over Michigan State Nov. 20. Lavin had two shots on goal in a 6-3 loss to North Dakota Friday. 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  25  26  
27  28  29  30  31  32  
33  34  35  36  37  38  
39  40  41  42  43  
44  45  46  47  
48  49  50  51  52  
53  54  55  56  
57  58  59  60  61  62  63  64  
65  66  67  
68  69  70  
71  72  73  


Tuesday, November 30, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD 
Across 41Organizer of 

1With 17-Across, the1-/17-Acrossevent of 44Uffizi display 10/30/10 45Tempest 
6 & 10 Sobriquet 47Troubadour's for Bill O'Reilly songused by 39-48Object of 
Across loathing14Duck, as 51Envoy's bldg.
a question 
53“Shake ___!” 
15Real comedian 54With 65-Across, 

16Tolstoy's event of Karenina 10/30/1017See 1-Across 57Song part 20Knights 61Duo 21White House 63Breakfast place fiscal grp. that's often open 22Deals in a 
24 hrs. 
fantasy league 65See 54-Across 23Fashionably old 68“Caro nome,” 25Reuniongoer e.g.
27Buffoon 69Cook in away, 28Gambler's best astunaorbeeffriend? 
tenderloin33Wizards'and 
Celtics'org. 70Rehem, say 
36Winner when 71Not straight 
heads loses 72Award wonfor 38.r2, for a circle 39- and 41­39Organizer of the Across's 
54-/65-Across programs 

ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


73“The Fountainhead” hero 
Down 
1 “Darn it!” 2 To have, toHenri 3 Peter of 
“Casablanca” 4 Deceives 5 Theyare3 ft. 
long6 Annual coronation site 7 Complete missin basketball 8 “The Tell-Tale Heart” writer 9 Offered for breeding10Eric who played
the Hulk in 2003 11An OK city12Throw in afew 
chips, say13Tampa Bay team18How apractical
joke or asubwaytrain may betaken 
19“Be All You Can Be” group242.5%/yearinterest, e.g.26Rodeo rope29Supreme Court'ssphere
30___Mountains,Europe/Asiaseparator
31Michael of “Scott Pilgrimvs.the World” 
321918 song girlwhosename wassung with a stutter 
33Final Four inits. 34Brought into theworld 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 
WILL SHORTZ 
Puzzle by Chris Handman 
35Utah ski resort 49Smog, e.g. 59Comparable (to) 
37Informal reply to 50Go by, astime 60Tidy “Who's there?” 
52S.O.S alternative 62Cautious 
40Wager 55Tony-winning 422 or3 on the Rivera 64Employee Richter scale, 56Act like an discount, e.g. maybe overly protectiveparent 66Opposite of 
43Jane Austen masc.
meddler 57Pierce 46Wrestling duo 58Ripped 67Swiss river 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 aminute;or, with acredit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions areavailable for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&Tusers: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, orvisit nytimes.com/mobilexword for moreinformation. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and morethan 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 ayear).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE
JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 
MATT MOMONT 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer




Sports

DTuesday, November 30, 2010 page 16 
ND MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Smells like victory 
Team takes on Indiana 


Senior laden roster State after tourney win 
will serve Irish well 
One thing became apparent 

By MIKE GOTIMER 
as the Irish won three games 
Sports Writer 

over the weekend to take the trophy at the Old Spice No. 25 Notre Dame will try 
Classic in to continue its winning ways 
Orlando, against Indiana State at home 
Fla. — the Tuesday after a first-place fin-
best player ish in the Old Spice Classic 
on the team this past week. 
is anyone’s It was unclear just how far 
guess. And the Irish (7-0) could go in the 
there is tournament after an 89-83 
nothing double overtime victory over 
more excit-Georgia (4-2) on Thanksgiving 
ing about Eric Prister in which Notre Dame trailed 
this team by as many 13 points in the 
than that. Associate second half. The Irish rallied, 
Coming Sports Editorhowever, relying on strong 
into the defensive efforts against 
season, it California (3-2) and Wisconsin 
was clear this senior-domi­(4-2) to clinch the program’s 
nated Notre Dame squad had third preseason tournament 
the potential to be incredibly title. 
diverse, which certainly will The Irish put up a record-
be a pleasant change of pace setting performance in their 
from the Luke Harangody­57-44 victory over California 
dominated teams of the past 
JULIE HERDER/The Observer

in the semifinals, holding the three or four years. The Old
Fourth-year forward Tim Abromaitis looks to drive past a defender during Notre Dame’s 57-44 win see BEARS/page 12 over California at the Old Spice Classic in Orlando, Fla. Nov. 26. see SENIOR/page 14 



ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 



Squad advances to College Cup with win over OSU 
“It was a great crowd for Complex, the No.7 Irish (19-2-imizing real good looks at the the Cowgirls in check until
By CHRIS MASOUD 

[Oklahoma State],” Irish 2) turned in another complete goal, ” Waldrum said. “We the offense found its rhythm.
Sports Writer 

coach Randy Waldrum said. performance, stifling an dominated in terms of the Waldrum credits sophomore “Right from the opening whis-Oklahoma State offense that possession and not allowing defender Jazmin Hall andFor the fifth consecutive tle, we took control of the featured forward Krista them any opportunities. It freshman defender Keciayear, Notre Dame will take game. I thought we played Lopez, the second -leading was one of those games when Morway for preventing anythe pitch on the final weekend with a lot of confidence. I scorer in the Big 12 during you got into halftime, you serious Cowgirl threats in theof collegiate soccer after shut-thought the kids managed the the regular season. were concerned that you had-Irish zone.
ting out Oklahoma State, 2-0, last 15 or 20 minutes really While Notre Dame’s offense n’t scored yet, but you never Tucker took care of the rest,Friday night. Freshman mid-well. Instead of panicking, I struggled to find the back of had a feeling that they were scoring her eighth goal of thefielder Elizabeth Tucker net-thought the kids handled that the net in the first half, the going to come at us in season on a cross from seniorted a pair of goals in the final last spell, that last run, really Irish outshot No. 6 Oklahoma waves.” forward Lauren Fowlkes in30 minutes of the NCAA well.” State (20-4-2) by a 10-1 mar-Captained by junior defend-the 63rd minute. She addedChampionship quarterfinals 

In front of a sellout crowd of gin. er Jessica Schuveiller, the
match, sending the Irish back 2,660 at Cowgirl Soccer “OSU did a great job of min-stalwart Irish defense held see FOWLKES/page 14to the College Cup. 

ND HOCKEY 





Irish battle Fighting Sioux 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
Playing in front of 11,680 fans at No. 7 North Dakota’s Ralph Engelstad Arena, the No. 12 Irish struggled in a 6-3 loss Friday night but rebounded with a gritty performance Saturday for a hard-fought 2-2 tie. 
“This was the first time our freshmen were overwhelmed,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. “It’s a professional environ­ment. It’s like playing in front of a pro crowd in a pro-type building. Playing them in their building in that environment was ultimately a good experi­ence for us.” 
The Fighting Sioux (9-5-2) jumped on the visitors early in 
see SIOUX/page 14 

YUE WU/The Observer Sophomore defenseman Sam Calabrese competes for the puck during Notre Dame’s 4-2 win over Lake Superior State Oct. 14. 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Team earns title with three weekend wins 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 

Following back-to-back losses against ranked opponents in No. 13 UCLA and No. 9 Kentucky, Notre Dame returned to the win column in convincing fashion over the weekend. The Irish took down IUPUI, Wake Forest and Butler to claim the WBCA Classic title at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Junior guard Natalie Novosel was named tournament MVP, while junior forward Erica Solomon and senior forward Devereaux Peters were named to the all-tournament team. Novosel finished with a com­bined 55 points over the three-day event. 
“I thought she [Novosel] had just a fantastic three-day tourna­ment — shot the ball extremely well, got to the foul line,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “Offensively, did pretty much everything we could ask for her. She really was just so hard to guard. We’re going to need that all season long.” 
No. 18 Notre Dame (5-2) defeated the Jaguars (1-5) Friday, 95-29, to snap its two-game losing skid, before over­coming the Demon Deacons (5­1), 92-69, on Saturday. The Irish closed out the tournament with an 85-54 victory over the Bulldogs (3-3). 
The Irish struggled to pull 
see BULLDOGS/page 13 



IRISH INSIDER 
THE 

Tuesday, November 30, 2010 observer Notre Dame 20, USC 16 


VICTORY! 

DAN JACOBS/The Observer Junior receiver Michael Floyd celebrates Notre Dame’s 20-16 victory over USC Saturday in Los Angeles. Floyd led the Irish with 11 catches for 86 yards in Notre Dame’s first victory over USC since 2001, a victory that was in doubt until the final minute. 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
LOS ANGELES — In the moments after Tommy Rees took a knee on his own three-yard line at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum Saturday night, sophomore receiver Theo Riddick dropped to his knees. Other players jumped up and down. Most just sauntered towards the tunnel, the stands or each other, partaking in amazed hugs and handshakes. 
On the strength of a late touchdown drive and countless key defensive stands, Notre Dame had beaten USC for the first time in nine years. 
“When we were required to play our best, we came up with a big drive and a big stop,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “And that’s really what we’ve talked about all year. We cannot win unless all three units play foot­ball.” 

Senior running back Robert Hughes ended a 77-yard drive with a five-yard touchdown to complete the scoring at 20-16. 
The Trojans got the ball at their own 31-yard line with 
2:16 left in the game. They drove to the Irish 23-yard line before senior safety Harrison Smith intercepted a pass from quarterback Mitch Mustain at the one-yard line. Three plays later, the game was over. 
“I don’t think words do it jus­tice. Everyone’s ecstatic,” said Rees, a true freshman who started for the third time this season. “It’s great for the sen­iors to go out with a win over USC. Words can’t describe how everyone’s feeling right now.” 
Four plays before the turnover, Trojans receiver Ronald Johnson evaded Smith and was open for a pass that could have turned into a touch­down. But in the rainy condi­tions, Johnson dropped the ball. 
“It’s about time we caught a break,” Kelly said. 
Both teams started out with strong defense, and each punt­ed twice in the first quarter. By the end of the game, Notre Dame (7-5) had punted six times and USC had punted seven times. 
USC started with a short field on each of its four scoring drives due to three Rees inter­ceptions and a lost fumble. But the Irish defense limited the Trojans to three field goals and a single touchdown, all coming after turnovers. 
“Defensively, we have the mentality, you just put the ball down and we’ll go out and play,” sophomore linebacker Manti Te’o said. “It doesn’t mat­ter whether you’re on our five-yard line or their five-yard line. We’ll go out and play.” 
The touchdown, a quarter­back sneak in the third quarter, was the first the Irish had sur­rendered in November and ended a streak of 13 straight quarters without an opponent scoring an offensive touchdown. 
“Unbelievable effort,” Kelly said. “We put them in some bad situations, and they just contin­ued to battle and they’ve done that all year. This is not a one­time occurrence. This is a defense that has played really well in the month of November.” 
The Irish offense struggled early and did not achieve a first down until its third possession of the game. But in the second quarter, Rees and junior receiv­er Michael Floyd connected on a one-yard pass for Notre Dame’s first touchdown. 
Nearly 10 minutes later, with 44 seconds left in the half, the Irish went 62 yards for another touchdown, this time a one-yard pass to senior Duval Kamara. 
They did not score again until the game-winning drive in the fourth quarter. 
“The offense really rallied together to be able to bounce back on our last drive,” Rees said. “It showed what kind of character we have, and leader­ship.” 
Rees finished the game 20-of­32 passing for 149 yards. 
Sophomore running back Cierre Wood led with 89 rush yards on 15 carries, while Hughes had 69 yards on 11 car­ries. 
Floyd led the team with 86 yards on 11 catches, eight of which came in his second-quar­ter touchdown drive. When he walked past the Irish support­ers still in their seats and into the tunnel after a long celebra­tion, he kept his arms raised above his head. 
“[This win is] huge,” Kelly said. “It’s looking at the faces of so many Notre Dame fans that have been waiting for this moment. Just to see the look on their face, it’s satisfying.” 
Contact Laura Myers at 
lmyers2@nd.edu 


player of the game stat of the game play of the game quote of the game 
Michael Floyd W Robert Hughes’ five-yard touchdown 
“It shows that we’re going in the right

Irish receiver run with 2:23 remaining in the game 
direction. It shows that we’ll fight, and Notre Dame earned a ‘W’ over USC we have what it takes to compete.” 
Floyd caught 11 passes for 86 yards, for the first time since 2001, a Hughes rushed for 36 yards on Notre including Notre Dame’s first score and time-span that encompassed three Dame’s final drive. His final five-yard Manti Te’o a five-yard reception on the final drive. head coaches. dive provided the winning margin. sophomore linebacker 



page 2 The Observer  IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, November 30, 2010 

report card 
B­
A 
A 


A+ A+ A B 
A 
quarterbacks: Tommy Rees threw two touchdown passes, but turned the ball over four times and set up each of USC’s scores. He kept his composure, though, and led the Irish to a victory. 
running backs: Both Robert Hughes and Cierre Wood averaged six yards per carry, and Hughes powered his way into the end zone from five yards out for the game winner. 
receivers: Michael Floyd had more catches than the rest of the Irish squad combined, but his 11 receptions, including six on one drive, were enough to lead the Irish to a win. 
offensive line: Notre Dame averaged 4.5 yards per carry and Tommy Rees was not sacked. If that’s not enough, the offensive line dominated the Trojans on Notre Dame’s game-winning drive. 
defensive line: Notre Dame held USC to less than three yards per carry. They put pressure on Mitch Mustain all night, forcing him to roll out to make passes, and commanded the line of scrimmage. 
linebackers: Southern Cal gained only 80 yards on the ground, and their longest single rush was only 11 yards. Darius Fleming led the Irish in tackles with seven. 
defensive backs: Notre Dame did not give up a score through the air and Harrison Smith tied for the team lead in tackles. USC dropped a lot of open passes, though, including a potential game-winner. 
special teams: David Ruffer did not 
attempt a field goal, and missed one 
of his extra point attempts. Ben Turk 
averaged only 37.5 yards per punt, 
and only tallied 106 return yards. 
coaching: Notre Dame may have commit­ted four turnovers and given USC chance after chance to win the game, but Brian Kelly still led the Irish to their first win over the Trojans in nine years. 
3.59 
overall: In a sloppy effort, Tommy Rees, Brian Kelly and Notre Dame got the job done and that is all that really matters in the Coliseum. 
adding up the numbers 
Before USC scored a touchdown with 5:40 left in the third quarter, the Irish defense had 
227
not allowed a touchdown in 227 plays. 
3,325 
Notre Dame had not defeated USC in their last eight meetings, with their last victory on Oct. 20, 2001, a span of 3,325 days. 
Notre Dame only held the ball for 4:58 in the first quarter Saturday, compared to 

4:58 
USC’s 10:02. 
10:11 
Notre Dame flipped the tables in the sec­ond quarter, holding the ball for 10:11, compared to USC’s 4:49. 
Notre Dame won its 26th straight game when outrushing its opponent. 
26 
26 
Michael Floyd registered his 26th career touch­down reception in the second quarter. He now trails Jeff Samarzija by one for the Irish record. 
11 
of the top 10 marks for receptions in a game. 
10 
Tommy Rees has thrown for 10 touchdown passes this season, one short of Notre Dame’s freshman record. 

LOS ANGELES — It was a win over an unranked team. It moved the Irish to 7-5, certainly not a spectacular record and nowhere near the top 25, let alone a BCS bowl game or a national champi­onship. It was a victory over a team that is having its worst year in the last decade, a sanc­tion-riddled team with a new coach and a backup quar­terback. The Irish turned the 

Eric Prister 

ball over four times, and USC Associate was a caught Sports Editor pass and 15 yards of open field away from continuing its eight-game win streak in the series. But Notre Dame’s 20-16 win over USC Saturday in the rain at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum could not have been more mean­ingful. 
If the win over Utah was the true beginning of the Brian Kelly era at Notre Dame, then Saturday’s win was it’s first meaningful victory. It hardly matters that the Trojans are down and that the victory was not nearly as decisive as some of the ones USC has handed the Irish since 2002. Notre Dame beat USC, and that’s what matters. 
Each season, it is jokingly claimed by Irish fans that even if Notre Dame goes 1-11, they will be satisfied as long as the win comes over SC. And while this season did-n’t quite reach that extreme, a win over the Trojans to cap off an undefeated November changes the outlook on the 2010 campaign dra­matically. The close losses to Michigan and Michigan State, the embarrassing performance against Navy and the heartbreaking loss to an inferior Tulsa can be basically ignored because of Notre Dame’s performance in November, and particularly Saturday’s win over the Trojans. The Irish still under­achieved, but they did not quit. And this will be what characterizes the Kelly era. 
In his first year, Tyrone Willingham started the season 8-0, beat two ranked teams but went into the Coliseum and lost by 31. Charlie Weis went 10-2 in his first year, including a win over then No. 3 Michigan, but lost to USC in the most heartbreaking fashion possi­ble, a game that would set the tone for his entire tenure at Notre Dame. Both coaches had successes in their first year, but they could not beat USC, and could not bring Notre Dame back to prominence. 
Kelly’s rookie season has been filled with controversy, both on and off the field. His coaching decisions have been questioned, his schem­ing critiqued. But when it mattered most, Kelly and the Irish succeed­ed, and did it in a spectacular way. A 7-5 record certainly isn’t ideal, for the fans nor the team itself. But the record that matters is 3-0 in November. The Irish were 3-10 over the last five years in the last month of the season, including five losses to their archrival, both heartbreaks and blowouts. Winning at the end of games and at the end of seasons needs a change of mindset, and this Irish program certainly looks to have made an attitude adjustment. 
It is this attitude, which can only be crafted by facing adversity and still coming out on the other side, is what will bring Notre Dame the success that has escaped it for so long. The Irish lost a lead into the fourth quarter against both Michigan and Michigan State, but went into Los Angeles and beat the Trojans in the fourth quarter. They were outplayed and out-schemed by Navy, but came back and domi­nated a similar-in-style Army squad. They lost to an undersized Tulsa, but came back with a tough­ness that allowed them to beat a ranked Utah team. Notre Dame is not only learning from its mistakes, but is confident that it has learned from them, and is taking that con­fidence onto the field. 
The win over USC is still just one win. But it is also a sign of things to come — not a sign of excellent recruiting or a decided schematic advantage, but a sign that this team has a willingness to see its faults, correct them, and know that it is better for it. It is a sign of good things to come. 
The views expressed in this 
column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 



Win over SC means much more 
Tuesday, November 30, 2010 The Observer  IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Past adversity leads to success now 

scoring summary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
ND  3  0  10  7  20  
USC  0  13  0  3  16  

First quarter 
Notre Dame 0, USC 3 
Joe Houston 45-yard field goal with 4:09 remaining. Drive: 4 plays, 3 yards, 2:20 elapsed. 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 7, USC 3 
Michael Floyd 1-yard pass from Tommy Rees (David Ruffer kick) with 2:39 remaining. Drive: 16 plays, 79 yards, 8:02 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 13, USC 3 
Duval Kamara 1-yard pass from Rees (Ruffer kick failed) with 0:07 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 62 yards, 0:37 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 13, USC 6 
Houston 23-yard field goal with 11:02 remaining. Drive: 7 plays, 15 yards, 2:29 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 13, USC 13 
Mitch Mustain 1-yard run (Houston kick) with 
5:40 remaining Drive: 4 plays, 2 yards, 1:50 elapsed. 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 13, USC 16 
Houston 37-yard field goal with 6:25 remaining. 
Drive: 7 plays, 18 yards, 4:03 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 20, USC 16 
Robert Hughes 5-yard run (Ruffer kick) with 
2:23 remaining Drive: 7 plays, 77 yards, 3:55 elapsed. 
statistics 
Passing Yards 

COLEMAN COLLINS/The Observer Senior linebacker Brian Smith breaks up a pass during Notre Dame’s 20-16 victory over USC Saturday. Smith ended the game with five tackles, bringing his November total to 16. 

Rushing Yards 

Penalty Yards 

Time of Possession 

passing Rees 20-32-2 Mustain 20-37-0  
rushing  
Wood 15-89 Marc 17-48 Hughes 11-69 Gable 7-19 Rees 4- -3 Woods 1-6 receiving  
Floyd 11-86 Woods 8-81 Eifert 3-36 Johnson 6-40 Toma 2-15 Ellison 5-38 Hughes 1-8 Havili 2-22 Riddick 1-6  

By ERIC PRISTER 
Associate Sports Editor 

LOS ANGELES — After a 4-5 start to the 2010 campaign, Notre Dame entered the month of November with low prospects. Four weeks later, they are 7-5 and bowl bound. 
Irish coach Brian Kelly said that it was the adversity they faced in the first two months that allowed them to end the season as they have. 
“I would like to have some more wins on the board, but I love the development of our football team and where we’re going from that stand­point,” he said. “You look back to the 1-3 start, and you see how we played after that. We think we stumbled twice where maybe we shouldn’t have but our kids never blinked. They kept playing hard, they kept competing, and that’s why we are where we are in November.” 
No unit has faced more adversity or risen to the occasion as spectacularly as the defense, which has given up 
only 22 points and one offensive touchdown this month. 
“At that point [early in the season], we were still trying to find ourselves and see where everyone fit in,” senior safety Harrison Smith said. “As the season went on, everybody started improving and making plays, and over time everybody has just gotten closer together and picked up their 
game. It was time for us to grow and Another change for the Irish in learn from our mistakes, and we took November came at quarterback. After advantage of that later in the year.” junior Dayne Crist fell to a season-After giving up 37 points in a loss to ending knee injury against Tulsa, 
S t a n f o r d  a n d  3 7 3  freshman Tommy Rees  
rushing yards in a loss  took over under center  
t o N a v y, t h e I r i s h defense held both Utah  “I would like to have  and has led the Irish to three straight victo­ 
a n d A r m y t o t h r e e points each and gave u p o n l y 8 0 r u s h i n g y a r d s t o a t a l e n t e d  more wins on the board, but I love the development of our  ries. Rees said it was the challenges of the first two months that allowed them to fight  
U S C  o f f e n s e .  football team and  b a c k ,  e s p e c i a l l y  
Sophomore linebacker M anti Te’o said that the ability was there  where we’re going from that standpoint.”  a g a i n s t Trojans. “We lost  t h e some  r i v a l tough  
the entire time.  games early  on,  and  
“ I t h i n k w e j u s t learned what we could  Brian Kelly Irish coach  we learned to how to f i g h t b a c k a n d k e e p  

do,” he said. “We learned our potential and we just knew that we had a lot of things to improve on, and we did.” 
No single player realized his poten­tial as much as senior linebacker Brian Smith, who led the team in tackles with 10 against Utah and intercepted a pass in Yankee Stadium against Army. He also played a moti­vational role on the defense. 
“I told the team, ‘We’ve been in these situations before and came out on the bottom. This is our time now. What a better time to do it? This is USC, we’re up, and it’s time for us to put a stamp on this Notre Dame foot­ball squad,’” Smith said. 
battling when adversi­
ty hits, ” he said. 
“Adversity hit again tonight, but obviously we’re making great strides to be able to come back against a great team like USC in the fourth quarter.” 
And while the individual efforts have been impressive, it was the team as a whole coming together and mak­ing positive strides that allowed the Irish to have success down the stretch, Brian Smith said. 
“Everyone has just picked their game up to make this a better team,” he said. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 
Added win does not yield bowl destination 
ture, but said he wasn’t dis-Catching the records meant little; the Trojans 
By LAURA MYERS 

appointed about going some-With his touchdown catch went three-and-out in their 
Sports Writer 

where other than his home in the second quarter of first possession, and Notre state. Saturday’s game, Floyd Dame ended its first drive of 
LOS ANGELES — Notre “It doesn’t matter as long moved into a second-place the second half with an Dame will learn of its bowl as we have another football tie on Notre Dame’s career interception after just two destination and opponent game,” Te’o said. touchdown receptions list. plays. Sunday. This week, players He is now even with former will work out but will not Victory captains Irish receiver Golden Tate at Trojan milestones practice. Junior receiver Michael 26 touchdowns, and needs The 7-3 lead Notre Dame 
After the game Saturday, Floyd and senior safety one more to tie former achieved early in the second Irish coach Brian Kelly did Harrison Smith were named receiver Jeff Samardizija, quarter was the first time not speculate on where or captains for the game who had 27 touchdown Notre Dame had led against who the Irish would play in a against USC, the third receptions in his career. USC since it led 31-27 late in bowl. straight game in which they the game in 2005. The last 
“Suffice to say I think our were the two captains. Floyd Starting without the foot-time the Irish had given up kids are excited about play-has been captain for five ball just three points in a half to ing and looking for an eighth games this season, and Notre Dame won the coin the Trojans was in the sec-win,” he said. Smith four. toss before the USC game but ond half of the teams’ 1999 
Sophomore linebacker All four games under elected to defer and begin contest, which Notre Dame Manti Te’o acknowledged Smith’s captaincy have been the second half with the ball. won 25-24. that Notre Dame’s 7-5 record wins, while the only loss It was the first time this sea-would probably take the while Floyd was captain was son the Irish did not start the Contact Laura Myers at Hawaii Bowl out of the pic-against Tulsa. game with the football. It lmyers2@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer  IRISH INSIDER Tuesday, November 30, 2010 


Nine years later 
More than nine years, and eight consecutive defeats in 
the series, since Notre Dame last beat USC, Brian Kelly’s Irish managed that feat 20-16. Kelly became the first Irish coach to win his first match-up with the Trojans since Lou Holtz did so in 1986. The first quarter ended with USC up 3-0, but by halftime Notre Dame led 13-3. While a Mitch Mustain rushing touchdown did briefly tie the game at 13-13, Irish quarterback Tommy Rees led Notre Dame down the field late in the fourth quarter to take the lead for good on a five-yard Robert Hughes rushing touchdown. Senior safety Harrison Smith sealed the game for the Irish with an interception with 36 seconds left on the Trojans one-yard line. 



COLEMAN COLLINS/The Observer DAN JACOBS/The Observer 
Clockwise from top: Irish coach Brian Kelly talks with quarterback Tommy Rees after one of Rees’ three interceptions; defensive linemen Ethan Johnson and Hafis Williams celebrate a defensive stop; Bennett Jackson returns a kick; Trojan receiver Ronald Johnson drops a potential game-winning pass; tight end Tyler Eifert reaches for an extra yard. 



