the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


ND grad joins pro boxing ranks 
Former Bengal Bouts champion Lee signs with Top Rank, strives to be a ‘world champion’ 

By MATT GAMBER 
News Writer 
It wasn’t long ago that gaining admission to Notre Dame was Mike Lee’s top goal. 
Less than four years later, with a degree in finance and three Bengal Bouts titles to his name, the recent Notre Dame graduate returned to campus to announce his intention to become a pro­fessional boxer at a press conference in the Joyce Center Wednesday. And Lee made it clear that he once again has one goal in mind. 

“Now my goal is to become world champion, and as crazy as that may sound, getting into Notre Dame sounded crazy to me,” Lee said. “It’s going to be a long process, but I don’t want anything else. Four years ago, all I wanted was to get into Notre Dame. I succeed­ed, and I fully plan on suc­ceeding with this goal.” 
Lee has signed a profes­sional contract with Bob Arum’s Top Rank, the boxing promotional giant that rep­resents current world cham­pion Manny Pacquaio and previously promoted legends like Muhammad Ali, Joe Frazier, Sugar Ray Leonard and Oscar De La Hoya. Lee is also teamed up with respected veteran trainer Ronnie Shields, who trained former world champions Mike Tyson and Evander Holyfield. 


Parents to visit juniors this weekend 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
Junior Parents Weekend may be dubbed “that quiet weekend” by freshmen and sophomores, but for juniors and their parents it is a week­end packed with distinguished speakers, workshops, dinners, socializing with friends and family, and this year, a speech by Irish football coach Brian Kelly. 

Junior Zach Reuvers, Chair of the JPW Committee, said about 1,200 juniors are expected to participate in the activities this weekend. Photo courtesy of Zach Reuvers 
JPW chairman Zach Reuvers, center, meets with Mendoza Workshop see JPW/page 6 chair Chris Schiraldi, left, and President’s Dinner chair Riley Orloff. 

Lee, Arum and Shields all said they were excited about the team they have assem­bled. 
“In order to be successful in this sport, you have to have a good team,” Shields said. “Top Rank is the best promoter in the world … I told Mike, they’re going to take care of you. They know how to match you, they know how to build you. All you have to do is get in the 
see BOXING/page 8 



Leaders request medical amnesty 
By LIZ O’DONNELL 
News Writer 
Student Senate passed a resolution recommending that the University adopt a policy that would grant medical amnesty to any student caught breaking school rules while assisting another stu­dent in need of help. 
Student body president Grant Schmidt said the topic has been debated in student government for a long time but was finally passed at Wednesday’s two-hour long session. 
If the policy is formally adopted by administrators, a student who is actively seek­ing medical treatment for a friend while breaking a school rule would not be penalized 
by  Residence  Life  and  
Housing  for his  or  her  
actions.  

The resolution leaves open the opportunity for Residence Life and Housing to educate the student, for example by placing him or her in alcohol classes. The student would not, however, garner any form of disciplinary record for the occurrence. 
Schmidt said this is an attempt to eliminate the deterrent of being sanctioned by Residence Life and 
see AMNESTY/page 6 


Observer announces new department heads 

Observer Staff Report 
Eight additional editors will join The Observer’s Editorial Board for the 2010-11 year, incoming Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber announced Thursday. 
Juniors Jordan Gamble and Blair Chemidlin and sophomores Sarah Mervosh and Douglas Farmer will join the Editorial Board in their new positions after Spring Break. 
Dan Jacobs and Laura McCrystal, both juniors, will take their new positions in the fall when they return from studying abroad. 
Juniors Michelle Maitz and Ashley Charnley will retain their current positions of Viewpoint editor and Saint Mary’s editor, respectively. 
A resident of Le Mans Hall from Angola, Ind., Charnley has covered Saint Mary’s news since her freshman year and held the position of Saint Mary’s editor for the 2009-10 year. 
Maitz has held the position of Viewpoint editor since fall of 2009 and will retain that position. She is a resident of 
see STAFF/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Notre Dame hosts health fair page 3  Covers of famous songs page 12  Women’s basketball preview page 24  Viewpoint page 10 

INSIDE COLUMN 



Spring Slump 
Inoticedatrendlately—asleepy, tiredandsadtrend. 

We’regrowing,slowlybutsurely,more impatientandgrumpyastheyearpro­gresses.I’mcallingthisphenomenonthe “SpringSemester Slump.” 
It’scommonsense, really.Westartout theschoolyearrela­tivelyexcitedtobe backoncampus, withfriends,possibly evenexcitedtobein class.Fallbreak comes,andwhileit’s Amanda Gray well-appreciated, 

News
wecancomeback 

Production
toschoolwithout muchcoaxing. Editor Schoolhasyettoget trulydifficult—ourprofessorsappearto stillretaintheirhumanecapabilities. 
Thisgoesouttheproverbialwindow, however,afterFallBreak. 
Professors,allseeminglyworkingin tandem,decidetoassigneverypossible assignmentatonetime.Yes,theymight allgivethreeweeksoffbeforeorafter, butthatone“HellWeek”willsetthe moodfortheremainderofthesemester. Thismayberepeatedonceortwice,cre-ating“HellWeeks”oreven“HellMonth.” 
WinterBreakcannotcomefast enough. 

Thosethreebeautifulweeksarethe shortestthreeweeksofmylife.Einstein’s theoryofrelativityisprovencorrect— thosethreeweeksfeellikeaminute,but aminuteinafinalfeelslikethreeweeks. 
Afterthatbriefrespite,springsemes­terbegins.However,thisbeginningdoes­n’tgoassmoothlyasfall—nowhere nearclose.Thereareseveralreasons: 
One—there’snosunshine.Yes,Imay beatownie,buttheperma-cloudbrings medown,too. 
Two—I’mjustnotrestedenough.Fall semesterfinalsarefreshwoundsthat havenotbeenhealedbythreeweeksof forcedfamilyfunandhorrendous sweaters.ThethreeweeksofChristmas breakarenomatchtowondroussum­mer,filledwithwarmth,bonfiresand longdays. 
Three—applicationsforjobsand internshipsstarttotakeoveranytime youthoughtyouhadformovies,friends orevenyourhomework.Alltherejection letters(“Sorry,butduetothehorrendous economy,wecan’taffordtopayourown employees,letaloneacollegeintern.”) takeatollonthepsyche. 
So,what’sagirltodo?Howdowebeat the“SpringSemesterSlump?” 
Bespontaneous.RunaroundSouth Quadinthemiddleofthenightscream­ingyourheadsoffforfun.Eataton(yes, anactualton)ofchocolatewithyour roommateswhilewatchingchickflicks —boys,I’drecommendtryingthis,too. Youarealsoherebyforbiddentodoany homeworkonFridayorSaturdaynights. I’veseenyou,librarylurkers—doing homeworkwhenyoushouldbemaking friends.Ihaveproofthatyoushouldput socializingfirst: 
Intenyears,whatareyougoingto remember—thatC+paperthatmade youcryorthattimewhenyourfriends hadanimpromptusnowballfight— indoors? 
Justremembertowearyourmittens. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WOULD YOUR IDEAL LE ENDS NI HT CLUB BE? 








Chris Tulisiak  Arianne Rodriguez  Eugene Lee  Leah Richman  James Tucci  James Ward  
senior  sophomore  freshman  sophomore  senior  sophomore  
Fisher  Le Mans  Fisher  McCandless  Morrissey  Morrissey  
“An Indie night  “A Disney night  “An Ambient  “A country­ “The lonely  “A Lady Gaga  
club. Standing  club.”  night club.”  western night  island night  night club.”  
and arm folding  club.”  club.”  

only.” 


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Students wait in line for free back massages at the Health and Wellness Fair Tuesday. The Health Fair took place the Rolfs Sports and Recreation Center and provided students with information about health resources on and off campus. 


OFFBEAT 

Police capture escaped zebra in downtown Atlanta 
ATLANTA — Rush hour traffic in Atlanta came to a standstill Thursday after­noon when an escaped cir­cus zebra galloped along a busy section of highway. 
The animal was first spotted around 4:30 p.m. in downtown Atlanta, said Georgia Department of Transportation spokes­woman Monica Luck. 
The animal made its way through downtown to the interstate highway that cuts through the center of the city. Police cruisers blocked off all southbound lanes and were able to herd the zebra over to the right shoulder and off an entrance ramp, Luck said. 
“It wasn’t on the high­way very long,” she said. “But it was an inconven­ient time for this to hap­pen because the down­town connector south­bound usually gets backed up on its own, that time of day.” 
Idaho groom arrested twice on wedding night 
LEWISTON — A mar­riage got off to a rocky start after the 21-year-old groom from northern Idaho was arrested twice on his wedding night and charged with assaulting his new wife in nearby eastern Washington. Court records show Nathan Lewis of Lewiston, Idaho, was charged Tuesday in Asotin County Superior Court with second-degree assault and interfering with a report of domestic violence. 
The Nez Perce County Sheriff’s Office in Idaho says Lewis was married Sunday and later arrested for drunken and disorder­ly conduct in Lewiston. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight SAturday sunday 



IN BRIEF 
Junior Parent’s Weekened commences tonight with the Opening Gala at the Joyce Athletic and Convocation Center at 9 p.m. 

The Aspen Santa Fe Ballet will be performing tonight at 7 
p.m. in the Decio Mainstage Theatre at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $15 for students $28 for faculty and $40 for general admission. Purchase tickets by calling 574-631­2800. 
Black Coffeehouse: A Night of Student Song, Dance and Poetry will take place tonight from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. Advance tickets are $5 for students and $7 for adults and can be pur­chased through the LaFortune box office or at the door. 
The University Band Concert: Junior Parents Weekend will take place Saturday at 2:30 p.m. at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center in the Leighton Concert Hall. Tickets are $3 for stu­dents and $5 for general admission and can be pur­chased by calling 574-631­2800. 
Film and Faith presents “Cool Hand Luke” Saturday from 6:30 p.m. to 8:45 p.m. in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for stu­dents, $4 for seniors and $6 for general admission. Tickets can be purchased by calling 574­631-2800. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
monday tuesday 


Atlanta 55 / 30 Boston 41 / 27 Chicago 36 / 26 Denver 37 / 28 Houston 62 / 50 Los Angeles 61 / 49 Minneapolis 29 / 16 New York 41 / 29 Philadelphia 40 / 27 Phoenix 77 / 53 Seattle 58 / 38 St. Louis 42 / 33 Tampa 64 / 43 Washington 43 / 28 



Students visit health, wellness fair at ND 
By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
Living up to their reputa­tion as health conscious individuals, Notre Dame students turned up in droves at Thursday’s Student Health and Wellness Fair, hosted at the Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. 
Josephine Dickinson of the University Counseling Center said this year’s event tried to live 

just pick up a flyer.” 
The raffle tickets were then entered into a give­away for prizes including one roundtrip plane ticket, salon baskets and spring break gift bags. 
Senior Jennie Heil was impressed with the variety of tables at the event. 
“I really liked the McDonald Physical Therapy table,” she said. “I also think it’s a good idea they’re giving out flu shots.” 
Dickinson said the event 
organizers 

up to its slo-were expect­
“The concept of the 
gan, “How ing a size-event is that we invite able turnout 
Healthy Are You?” by all departments on after last involving all year’s event 
campus to help us with 
aspects of drew larger 
all aspects of healthy 
campus life. than expect­
“The con-living.” ed crowds, cept of the with 761 event is that students
Josephine Dickinson 
we invite all attending. 
University Counseling Center 
departments “It was 

on campus to help us with all aspects of healthy living,” she said. 
Dickinson said this includ­ed the Gender Relations Committee, RecSports and even businesses outside of Notre Dame that focus on self-care and wellness, who all set up tables on the gym floor. 
Dickinson said the event should seem familiar to any­one who attended last year’s Health and Wellness Fair, which was the first time it was held. 
“We invited the same peo­ple from last year. It should look very similar,” she said. 
Dickinson said one of the most important features of the event is student interac­tion with the departments, complemented with incen­tives for participation. Popular tables included a free massage center and a Dance Dance Revolution console. 
“Students come and for every table they participate in they get a raffle slip. That’s the buy-in for stu­dents,” she said. “The tables have to be interactive. They can’t be boring where you 

shocking. We would have been happy with 200,” she said. “We hope since the word is out that 1000 people will attend this year.” 
The event seemed to live up to the hype, according to students. 
“I think it’s great that they got so many kids to go out,” freshman Rebecca Kibler said. 
Dickinson said the concept of a health fair for students is not unique to Notre Dame and that she drew inspira­tion for the event from pre­vious work experience. 
“Before I worked here I worked at The Ohio State University. I decided to bring the same concept from Ohio State, which ran a similar event,” she said. 
Freshman Garret Ward agreed the event was an excellent idea for the Notre Dame student body. 
“I definitely think it is a good idea to raise aware­ness amongst students for different health related issues,” he said. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 





ClubmarksChineseNewYear 

Chinese Association to perform in their annual Spring Festival 

By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame community will experience a taste of true Chinese culture Sunday as the Notre Dame Chinese Friendship Association (NDCFA) puts on its annual Spring Festival Celebration in honor of the ChineseNewYear. 
“Chinese New Year is the best opportunity for students to see our cultural presence on cam­pus,” NDCFA vice president Yi Fang said. “It is hard for interna­tional students to always explain home to American students, and this celebration can be a way to showwhatChinareallyis.” 
The Notre Dame Chinese Friendship Association began in 1991to promote culturalinterac­tion and deeper friendships between Chinese students and people from other countries, accordingtotheclub’sWebsite. 
NDCFA president Ke Chen describedthe “united, active, and creative” group as one that works to provide a stage for Chinese students and their friends to show their talents. Chen, a graduate student from Shen Zhen, organized more than 15 unique performances for this year’s Spring Festival Celebration. 
“The Chinese community is my first community where I feel at home,” Fang said. “I have a responsibility to act as a bridge betweendifferentculturespartic­ularly because Notre Dame does not enjoy as much diversity as someotherschools.” 
Fang emphasized the benefits of the Spring Festival Celebration for both Chinese and American students. Chinese students can open up and show pride for their heritage while American stu­dents can learn from an expo­sure to a different part of the world,shesaid. 
The majority of students at Notre Dame are not always well connected to the minorities on campus, though the University hopes to expand its Asian demo­graphicinthefuture,Fangsaid. 
Fang, the only student from China enrolled in the University’s lawschool, describedthe Chinese students as a “true minority” on campus. As Notre Dame begins to expand its influence in China and recruit more international students, she was proud to find that a greater number of under­graduates among the nearly 50 performersinthisyear’sshow. 
“My American friends cannot get these Chinese sounds and real cultural experience from other places like TV,” sophomore Richard Zhao said. “We just try to make people more and more familiarwithChineseculture.” 
Fang andChen both mentioned the Kung Fu skit as their favorite partoftheperformance. 
“It is the Fighting Irish spirit from China,”Chensaid. 
Another favorite performance centers on the “Hong Bao,” or “Red Envelope.” Children in China traditionally receive a red envelope of money from their parents, aunts, uncles and grandparents upon wishing them a respectful “Happy New Year.” The Spring Festival Celebration is intendedto highlightthis tradi­tion and others that are impor­tanttothecountry’sculture. 
“Chinese students here are sometimes shy to express their culture,” Fang said. “This can show that we are a confident, vibrant group, proud to con­tribute to the Notre Dame com­munity.” 
Along with various small per­formances, the Spring Festival Celebration will feature a stage drama in Chinese and various traditional folk dances. The show will also feature remarks from University President Fr. John Jenkins. 
“We are very proud and grate­ful to have Fr. Jenkins at our cel-ebration,”Fangsaid. 
Dinner from a Chinese restau­rant in South Bend will precede the performance in the LaFortune Ballroom at5:30p.m., and the show willbegin at7p.m. in Washington Hall. Admission for both the dinner and the per­formanceisfree. 

Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 





Lenten luncheons promote reflection 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
Lent is a time to improve one’s life through fasting, almsgiving and prayer, Regina Wilson, assistant director of Campus Ministry at Saint Mary’s College, said. 
In order to assist stu­dents with these tasks, Campus Ministry will be hosting Lenten Lunches each Friday from noon to 1 p.m. in the west wing of the Noble Family Dining Hall. 
“Every Friday during Lent that campus is open we’ve got an opportunity for students to gather and to have conversation that connects them to their Lenten fasting, prayer, their almsgiving with a specifically social justice theme,” Wilson said. 
The lunches will provide students a chance to come together to discuss a vari­ety of issues relevant to Catholic Social Thought. Each week a different theme will be presented for students to converse about. 
“We did it last year and found that people liked the opportunity to kind of talk about the various topics that we bring and they find it enlightening and an opportunity for personal growth to share with one another,” she said. 
The first lunch will be held today at noon. According to Wilson, stu­dents can arrive at any­time during the lunch to participate. Wilson also said students did not have to attend every week, but to come when they could. 

The first lunch will host a dialogue about fair trade. Junior Laurel Javors will lead the dis­cussion. 
“The first one is led by students, and then every other week after that we will have students from various groups on campus who will be leading,” Wilson said. “We have the group the Invisible Children, Africa Faith and Justice Club and the Sisters of Nefertiti. The topics they are leading are topics that are of interest to that group.” 
Other topics of conver­sation include solidarity, presented on Feb. 26, hunger, presented on March 5, Peace Building, discussed on March 19 and HIV/AIDS, presented on March 26. 
Wilson said about six to eight students are expect­ed to attend, though she hopes that more will show interest. Wilson also said a variety of people attend the events. 
“It’s fun because people don’t come every week so it’s a different mix of peo­ple to come,” Wilson said. 
Wilson said students enjoy the luncheons. 
“People find it enriching for their Lenten journey to share with one anoth­er,” she said. “We all think of Lent as an oppor­tunity to improve our lives and to become closer to God. I hope students will take the opportunity to realize that our journey of conversion is what Lent is about.” 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 



ILS studies immigrant retirement savings 
Special to the Observer 
The Center for Migration and Border Studies in the University of Notre Dame’s Institute for Latino Studies has received a $125,000grantfrom the National Endowment for Financial Education (NEFE) to investigate how social and cultural factors impact Mexican immigrants’ sav­ingsforretirement. 
Titled “Understanding and Increasing Mexican Immigrants’ Financial and Retirement Security,” the study will examine how Mexican immigrants pre­pare, or do not prepare, for retirement. The research applies a novel, interdisciplinary approach to the study of retire­ment, combining anthropological and economic theories and meth­ods. 
Mexican immigrant workers are more likelythan other groups to be living in poverty in retire­ment. Mexican immigrant work­ers, who comprise one-third of the immigrant workforce, areless likelytobe participatingin formal retirement savings programs. Even those in the $100,000 to $200,000 income bracket hold an average of $61,293 in retirement accounts compared with $160,626 for all households. Therefore, understanding the dynamic nature ofMexican immi­grants’ family structure is crucial tofiguringouthowtodevisecom­municationprogramsandpolicies that will help increase the immi­grants’ financial literacy and retirementsecurity. 
Center director Karen Richman will lead the study along with Teresa Ghilarducci, an economist at the New School for Social Research. 
Notre Dame’s Center for MigrationandBorderStudiesfur­thers understanding of the increasingly significant phenome­non of transnational migration between Latin America and the United States by investigating the political,social,economicandcul­tural forces that are shaping lives in both sending and receiving communities throughout the con­tinent. 



SMC students participate in local benefit walk for women 

By ALISON MEAGHER 
News Writer 
Members of the Saint Mary’s community will be participat­ing in a walk to raise money and awareness for Saint 
Margaret’s House, a women’s day house in down­town South Bend, Sunday at 2 p.m. 
“This walk isn’t only to raise money, but also solidarity,” Kathy Schneider, execu­tive director of Saint Margaret’s House, said. 
Saint Margaret’s house offers serv­ices to impover­
ished women and children. The organization serves breakfast and hot lunch to women and offers shower facilities, employment help, parenting seminars and health services. 
Schneider said the walk will raise money for the operating budget. The money will go towards buying food for meals and clothes to give out to visi­tors. 
The walk is in front of the Cathedral of St. James in downtown South Bend. Registration is free and can be completed online at www.stmargaretshouse.org 
Carrie Call, director for the Office of Civic and Social Engagement, said transporta­tion to and from the event can be arranged as long as the office is notified beforehand. 
The House’s goal is to raise $50,000 this year through the walk. Major sponsors include Bank of America, McDonald 
“This walk isn’t only to raise money but also solidarity.” 
Kathy Schneider executive director Saint Margaret’s House 
Physical Therapy and Saint Joseph Regional Medical Center. 
Schneider said the majority of funds raised are from individual donations. 
Another goal of the walk is to promote fellow­ship. 
“The walk is one of the best ways to show sol­
idarity with other women in our com­munity,” Call said. “So many women have to rely on walk­ing in their day-to­day lives.” 
In addition to cor­porate and individual donations, many teams have formed, including some from the College. 
Kelley FitzGerald, a senior at Saint 
“Being an all women’s insti­tution, we need to support all women, but particularly in our community who need help,” FitzGerald said. “Saint Mary’s has taught us about faith in action in our communi­ty and women’s rights, and Saint Margaret’s House is a place where we can put not only our faith but our educa­tion to practice.” 
According to FitzGerald, the team she started has twenty members that are all nursing majors. The sociology and psy­chology departments also have teams participating in the walk. 
Hot Chocolate and cookies will be served at the house fol­lowing the one-mile walk in the cold. 
“We encourage everyone to 
come out and 
walk a mile in 
‘her’ shoes,” 
“Being an all women’s institution, we need to support all women.” 
Kelley FitzGerald senior 
Mary’s, helped organize a team for the walk. She does clinical work at the House and thought it would be good to support them in more than one way. 
Schneider said. “It’s a fun and important day.” 
Saint Margaret’s House and the College will part­ner in future events, such as offering summer internships to stu­dents, having nursing majors 
assist with health services and participating in future walks. 

Contact Alison Meagher at ameagh01@saintmarys.edu 






World & Nation 
Friday, February 19, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Cuba immigration talk creates mistrust 
HAVANA —The lasttime U.S. diplomats trav­eled to Havana, theyheld secret talks withtheir Cuban counterparts that were hailed as the most significant in decades. Almost nothing has gone right for U.S.-Cuba relations in the five longmonthssince. 
WhenStateDepartmentofficialssitdownwith Cuban leaders for immigration talks Friday, the encounter will take place under a cloud of mutual mistrust and dashed hopes. Last year’s hopes that the election of President Barack Obama could mean quicker progress toward ending a half-century of U.S-Cuban enmity now seemapipedream. 
“Expectations on both sides were perhaps too high, and as aresultIthink there is alot ofdis­appointment,” said Robert Pastor, a longtime foreign policy adviser on hemispheric affairs andprofessoratAmericanUniversity. 

Mexican drug suspect’s son sent to U.S. 
MEXICO CITY — A man accused of being an influential, second-generation member of the Sinaloa drug cartel was extradited from Mexico to the United States on Thursday on charges he helped move tons of cocaine from Colombia to California,NewYorkandChicago. 
Vicente Zambada Niebla was turned over to 
U.S. authorities at the international bridge con­necting Matamoros to Brownsville, Texas, Mexico’sattorneygeneral’sofficeannounced. 
Zambada’sfather,Ismael“ElMayo”Zambada, controls the cartel along with Mexico’s most wanted drug lord, Joaquin “El Chapo” Guzman, accordingtolawenforcementofficials. 


NATIONAL NEWS 
Court reverses firefighter judgment 
LOS ANGELES — A California appellate court on Thursday reversed a$6.2 million ver­dict against the city of Los Angeles in a dis­crimination lawsuit filed by a black lesbian firefighter. 
The 2nd District Court of Appeal issued its decision in the case brought by Brenda Lee of Mission Hills, who sued the city alleging the fire department discriminated against her based on her race, gender and sexual orienta­tion and refused to transfer her after she com­plainedofharassment. 
Lee claimed her superiors yelled and made derogatory comments about her and put her through grueling drills without proper safety precautions. She also claimed someone put urineinhermouthwash. 

Ashanti fan jailed for text-stalking 
NEW YORK — A delusional fan who unleashed his crude fantasies about Ashanti in a battery of text messages to her mother was sentenced Thursday to two years in jail, though his judge rued not being able to send himtopsychologicaltreatmentinstead. 
A downcast Devar Hurd said he didn’t mean toannoy or alarmtheGrammyAward-winning R&B singer and her family when he sent the messages. Someincludedphotos ofhisgenitals and a picture of the family’s Long Island home withacommentaboutstoppingbytovisit. 
“My intent was not to harm,” he told the judge.“Ialwayswishthebestfor(Ashanti).” 
Hurd, 31, was convicted in December of stalking and aggravated harassment. Ashanti’s mother and manager, Tina Douglas, said she was glad to see the case closed with his sen­tencing. 


LOCAL NEWS 

City to start receiving casino revenues 
EASTCHICAGO,Ind. —Casinorevenuesthat have been paid to an East Chicago develop­ment company since 1997 will be paid directly tothe cityunderaproposed settlement. 
East Chicago Mayor George Pabey announced the proposed settlement with Second Century Inc. on Thursday. Second Century attorneyJ. Lee McNeely confirmedthe deal,whichneeds CityCouncil approval. 
The Indiana attorneygeneral’s office andthe city sued Second Century in 2005, claiming its owners pocketed more than $16 million in casino receipts they had agreed to use for developmentprojects withinthe city. 



Dalai Lama visits White House 
Obama meets with Tibetan leader against Chinese wishes, results seem upbeat 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama personally welcomed the Dalai Lama to the White House Thursday and lauded his goals for the Tibetan people, buthe kepttheirget­together off-camera and low-key in an attempt to avoid inflaming tensions withChina. 
At the risk of angering Beijing, Obama did tell the exiled spiritual leader that he backs the preservation of Tibet’s culture and supports human rights for its people. He also gave encouragement to the Dalai Lama’s request for talks with the Chinese government. 
Meetings between the Dalai Lama and U.S. presi­dents became standard fare under former President George H.W. Bush nearly 20 years ago. But the choreog­raphy is always delicate and closely watched because of China’s sensitivity. 
Revered in much of the world, the Dalai Lama is seen by Beijing as a sepa­ratist seeking to overthrow Chinese rule of Tibet. Though he says that is untrue, China regards any official foreign leader’s con­tact with the Buddhist monk as an infringement on its sovereignty over the moun-only release after the monk no photos of his 1991 talks Oval Office — a decidedly tainous region and as a par-met later with Secretary of with the Dalai Lama. Bill lower status in the White ticularly unwelcome snub. State Hillary Rodham Clinton avoided formal ses-House venue pecking order. China had urged Obama not Clinton. This from a presi-sions altogether, favoring Even the White House to meetwiththe DalaiLama. dent who promised —andin drop-bys into the Dalai description of the talks was 
China is a rising global some other ways has deliv-Lama’s other meetings. done on paper. The timing rival for the U.S. and a ered — unprecedented George W. Bush kept his was a concession, too, as hoped-for partner. So con-transparency in his White meetings under wraps, too Obama declined to see the cern about reprisals, in the House. — though in 2007, he broke Dalai Lama during his form of reduced cooperation The Dalai Lama did meet with tradition and appeared Washington stay in October with Washington or other with reporters outside the in public with the Dalai because it would have come punitive steps, has led White House, playfully toss-Lama to present him with before the president’s American presidents, includ-ing a bit of snow at them the Congressional Gold NovemberChinavisit. ingObama, to tread careful-and declaring himself “very Medal, atthe Capitol. “The president stated his ly. happy” with the visit, and Everything about Obama’s strong support for the 
There was no welcome had ashort news conference meeting withthe DalaiLama preservation of Tibet’s fanfare on Thursday, nor a attheState Department. was muted. unique religious, cultural public appearance with the There, he chided China for “The optics of this thing and linguistic identity and president. The White House what he called its “childish” are incredibly important to the protection of human released only asingle official and “limited” approach to the Chinese,” said Michael rights for Tibetans in the picture, rather than allow Tibetan efforts for greater Green, George W. Bush’s People’s Republic of China,” independent photographers rights. He saidhe expected a seniorAsia adviser. White House press secretary and reporters to see the two negative Chinese reaction to So Obama sat down with Robert Gibbs said after the men together. An official hismeetingwithObama. his fellow Nobel laureate in private meeting that lasted photograph was also the George H.W. Bush allowed the MapRoom instead ofthe formorethan anhour. 



IRELAND 


Minister resigns over brothel comments 
But within hours the Greens, the 1/2-year-old coalition and trigger 

Associated Press 
junior party in Prime Minister Brian early elections. 

DUBLIN — Ireland’s defense minis-Cowen’s coalition government, Gormley, who is Ireland’s environ­ter resigned from his post Thursday changed their mind and said O’Dea ment minister, said his party could after falsely accusing a political rival must go because of the questionable not tolerate “the nature of the attacks of running a brothel — and then ethics of his conduct, compounded by and smear of another individual in denying in court that he made the his initial arrogant defense of his politics.” slanderous comment. actions. Politicians said sentiment moved 
Defense Minister Willie O’Dea insist-O’Dea made a last plaintive bid to decisively against O’Dea after his ed his sworn statement did not stay in office, going live on national reckless, defamatory comments made amount to perjury. He retracted it radio Thursday to apologize for what against Sinn Fein politician Maurice after a journalist produced an audio he called “a stupid, silly mistake.” Quinlivan were broadcast for the first recording of his brothel claims. Cowen had sternly defended his time Thursday on national radio. 
O’Dea — long renowned as one of friend hours earlier, but accepted his O’Dea told a journalist in March the country’s most verbally combative resignation after meeting Green Party 2009 that Quinlivan was operating a politicians — survived a parliamen-leader John Gormley — and deter-brothel in an apartment he owned in tary vote of no confidence Wednesday mining that O’Dea’s continued place O’Dea’s power base of Limerick, west-on strictly partisan lines. in Cabinet could destroy Ireland’s 2 ern Ireland. 

Amnesty 
continued from page 1 
Housing. 
“The reality of the situation is that there are people out who have disciplinary records because they have made the choice to help people,” he said. 
The resolution will accom­pany a set of recommenda­tions student government makes to the Office of Student Affairs, who is currently con­sidering revisions of du Lac. 
Student body vice president Cynthia Weber said while the issue is complex, few people disagree with the philosophy behind the policy. 

“This policy says we 
“The ideal or residence policy is to acknowledge we should hall staff to make a provi-care about other people help treat sion for the someone, do 
before ourselves, and
person who you consider needs the that we will care.” any discipli­help,” she nary conse­said. “[The quences that 
Cynthia Weber 
student] isn’t might incur as 
student body vice president
only thinking a result of the 
about herself, but whether or not the person who needs help is going to get in trouble.” 
The medical amnesty policy, as requested in the resolution, would not extend to the stu­dent who was in need of assis­tance while breaking school rules. Senators debated full coverage, but ultimately decided against it. 
“The reason why we didn’t ask for that outright is that we’re worried the policy would be abused,” Weber said. “If the policy is gradually implemented it lessens the possibility for that to happen.” 
Senator Nick Ruof, who worked on the resolution, said student government approached the topic by tak­ing baby steps. 


Staff 
continued from page 1 
Farley Hall from Surrey, England. 
Mervosh, a resident of Badin Hall, will serve as News editor. When McCrystal returns from abroad in the fall, the two will serve as co-News editors. 
A native of Pittsburgh, Pa., Mervosh has written for The Observer since her freshman year and has covered a vari­ety of stories including the cancellation of the Innsbruck study abroad program, a protest against the University’s invitation to President Barack Obama last spring and student govern­ment. She is a Psychology and Arabic double major with a minor in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. 
McCrystal is an American Studies and French major with a minor in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. She is from Chagrin Falls, Ohio, and lives in Pasquerilla East Hall. McCrystal has covered stu­dent government, former presidential candidate Mike Huckabee’s book signing on campus, and she examined Notre Dame’s Appalachia seminar in an in-depth piece. 
Farmer will serve as the Sports editor. A resident of Alumni Hall, Farmer has worked for the department since his freshman year and covered Bengal Bouts, track and field, women’s tennis and this year’s women’s soccer 
“Other schools have policies where it covers both the per­son in the emergency and the person who’s seeking help,” he said. “The stats on those schools aren’t very well proven though.” 
Weber said the policy is important because it allows for students to focus on the emergency of the situation rather than worry about external factors. 
“This policy says we acknowledge we should care about other people before ourselves, and that we will care,” she said. 
Weber cited a student body survey last year where 85.6 percent of students answered “yes” or “sometimes” when asked, “Before calling NDSP 
call?” 
Senators also debated whether or not they should formally include adding an educational component to the bill. This was also ultimately decided against. 
Schmidt said the policy would ideally be implemented in time for the start of the 2010-11 academic school year. 
“We will send this to Fr. Poorman in the Office of Student Affairs and Jeff Shoup at the Office of Residence Life and Housing,” he said. “We’d like to see this policy put into du Lac and ready to go by the time the freshman get their books next fall.” 
Contact Liz O’Donnell at eodonnel@nd.edu 
College Cup. A sophomore, Farmer is a Program of Liberal Studies major and is pursuing a minor in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy. He is originally from La Crosse, Wisc. 
Gamble will join the Editorial Board as the Scene editor. Gamble, currently residing in McGlinn Hall, interviewed Knute Rockne’s grandson for a story about the 1930s film “The Spirit of Notre Dame” for the section. She is from Lafayette, Ind., and is majoring in American Studies with minors in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy and Catholic Social Tradition. 
Jacobs is spending the semester participating in Notre Dame’s London Program, but will assume the role of photo editor in the fall. An Industrial Design major from O’Neill Hall, Jacobs has covered a variety of campus events, including events dur­ing Barack Obama’s 2009 Commencement address in the spring. He is from Granger, Ind. 
Chemidlin will serve as Graphics editor. She has worked for the department since her freshman year and is a resident of Welsh Family Hall. Chemidlin is an English and sociology major from Watchung, N.J. 
The other editors previously selected for the Editorial Board include Managing Editor Madeline Buckley, and Assistant Managing Editors Laura Myers and Sam Werner, in addition to Gamber. 
JPW 
continued from page 1 
The initial planning for JPW 2010 began back in April, Reuvers said. 
“When I got the position [last spring] we shot ideas around, but we didn’t assem­ble the Committee until the fall,” he said. 
The JPW Committee is com­posed of twelve juniors, including Reuvers, vice chair Lindsay Schwartz, a graphic designer and nine other chairs in charge of a specific event like the President’s Dinner or the Gala. 
Reuvers said the idea of Notre Dame as a place grounded in tradition has been pervasive in the plan­ning of JPW. Iconic images like the Golden Dome and the Hesburgh Library were used in the designs of program covers and tickets. Large black and white paintings of Notre Dame past and present will be hanging at the events. 
“I think a lot of students have gotten this sense of tra­dition [from being] at Notre Dame. What we want to do is invite their parents into that as well,” Reuvers said. “We’re trying to express to parents how special and unique Notre Dame is.” 
The first event of the week­end is the annual Opening Gala, which will take place at the Purcell Pavilion in the newly renovated Joyce Center. The Gala will feature a cash bar, portrait photogra­phy, a DJ and dancing. 
“It’s a big event,” Reuvers said. “You walk in and it’s kind of like a big cocktail party, with appetizer stations set up all around the JACC. Dress for the Gala is the dressiest attire out of all the events.” 
On Saturday morning the Collegiate Workshops will take place. Each college hosts their own workshop to give parents a taste of their son or daughter’s academic life at Notre Dame. The dean of each respective college wel­comes parents at the begin­ning of the workshop, and then the group breaks down into different sections depending on the students’ majors or concentrations. Parents will have the oppor­tunity to actually sit in class­rooms and meet professors. 
Reuvers said these work­shops are very popular among parents. 
“Students aren’t too crazy about the workshops — most­ly because they’re early in the morning — but it’s one of the things that parents really like,” Reuvers said. “They give … an intimate view of what their son or daughter is up to [in his or her] college.” 
Reuvers said one of the most important events of the weekend is Saturday’s President’s Dinner. 
“Fr. John Jenkins gives a speech at the dinner, and a lot of other University nota­bles attending the dinner, [including] Fr. Bill Lies, Director of the Center for Social Concerns, and Athletic Director Jack Swarbrick,” he said. 
Students and their parents have some down time on Saturday evening. Some will head out to off-campus favorites like Rocco’s Restaurant, Fiddler’s Hearth and Corby’s Irish Pub. Others will stick close to campus at Legends of Notre Dame. Aaron Perri, General Manager of Legends of Notre Dame, said the restaurant and alehouse pub are expect­ed to experience a surge in business during JPW. 
“Most of this [business] comes on Saturday night as Friday night everyone is fairly busy with the Gala,” he said. 
Perri also mentioned that Legends has a chocolate-lovers dessert on the menu called “Junior Parents Weakness.” 
The weekend’s festivities will end on Sunday with the Closing Brunch at the Joyce Center. Reuvers said juniors are especially looking for­ward to Kelly’s speech at the brunch. 
“I’m really excited to hear [Coach Kelly],” Reuvers said. “He had a trip planned for this weekend and he rearranged his schedule to come [to JPW] … We didn’t even find out until last Monday that he would be able to [attend].” 
Junior Ryan Calkin is also looking forward to Kelly as a guest speaker. 
“We’ve got a new coach finally and I haven’t actually heard him say anything, so it would be nice to get to know him a little as a person,” he said. 
Reuvers said friends have expressed concern that after all the JPW Committee’s hard work, they will be too swamped with tasks this weekend to actually enjoy time with family and friends. Reuvers said as of today, however, the committee’s work is done. The rest of the work will be passed on to a group of about forty sopho­mores who will help out at each event and make sure that everything runs smooth­ly. 
“I’m really excited for the weekend as a whole — just seeing all of our efforts we’ve gone through for almost a year coming to fruition,” Reuvers said. 

Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 

The Observer 




Business
Friday, February 19, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 



IN BRIEF 

U.S. approves Rituxan for new use 
WASHINGTON — Genentech’s blockbuster blood cancer drug Rituxan was approved Thursday for a new use by the Food and Drug Administration. 
The FDA said Genentech, the biotech unit of Swiss drugmaker Roche Group, can market Rituxan for chronic lymphocytic leukemia, or CLL for short. The second-most common leukemia in adults, Rituxan is already approved for that condition in Europe. 
The slow-growing cancer, in which bone marrow makes faulty white blood cells that don’t fight infection well, affects about 86,000 Americans, generally people over age 50. Each year, about 16,000 people are diagnosed with the disease and 4,400 die from it. 
Rituxan is to be given with two other chemotherapy drugs, both for patients start­ing treatment and for those who have not responded to other cancer drugs. 
Rituxan, sold in some other countries under as MabThera, already is approved for several other uses, including treating non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma. A biologic drug produced in living cells, it binds to cancer cells to attract the patient’s own immune cells. 

Aruba Networks’ loss narrows 
SUNNYVALE, Calif. — Aruba Networks Inc. said Thursday that its second-quarter loss narrowed as revenue at the equipment maker for wireless network providers jumped 31 percent from a year earlier. 
For the three months that ended Jan. 31, the company said it lost $4.4 million, or 5 cents per share, compared with a loss of $6.8 million, or 8 cents per share, a year earlier. 
The results included $9 million in non-cash stock-based expenses, $1.2 million in amor­tization expenses and $500,000 in litigation reserves. 
Excluding such one-time items, the compa­ny beat Wall Street expectations by earning $6.3 million, or 6 cents per share. Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had expected it to earn 5 cents per share on that basis. 
Shares of Aruba Networks rose 19 cents to $11.10 after the market closed. They fell 18 cents to $10.91 during regular trading Thursday. 



N.Y. judge questions Google deal 
Google’s new plan to preside over the world’s largest digital library raises questions 
Associated Press  
NEW YORK — A judge  
Thursday questioned  
whether Google and  
lawyers for authors and  
publishers went too far  
when they struck a deal  
that would let the gigantic  
search engine make money  
presiding over the world’s  
largestdigital library.  
U.S. District Judge Denny  
Chin put lawyers who  
reached the $125 million  
settlement on the defensive  
as he presided over a fair­ 
ness hearing in a packed  
Manhattan courtroom  
where opponents of the  
agreement spent several  
hours urging him to reject it  
or demand changes. He did  
not immediately rule.  
When the lawyers who  
completed revisions on the  
deal in the fall took their  
turn to speak, Chin ques­ 
tioned why the settlement  
gave Google publishing  
rights well into the future  
rather than merely rectify­ 
ing any harm that led  
authors and publishers to  
sue itfiveyears ago.  
“Usually it’s a release of  
claims based on what’s hap­ 
pened in the past. Usually  
you don’t have a release of  
claims based on future con-AP  
duct. Why is this case differ-Members of the National Federation for the Blind leave a federal courthouse after attend­ 
ent?” Chin asked Michael J. ing a hearing about Google’s online library on Thursday in New York.  
Boni,a lawyer forauthors.  
Boni agreed that the case  As the deal stands, Google  rate,” hesaid.  Google that Google could  
was unusual butinsisted the  would be able to use so­ Boni’s remarks came after  not achieve in the market- 
deal was fair despite objec­ called “orphan works” —  a stream of people opposing  place because of the exis­ 
tions by Google rivals, con- out-of-print books whose  the deal each spoke for  tence of orphan works,”  
sumer watchdogs, academic  writers’ could not be located  about 5 minutes, leading  Cavanaughsaid.  
experts, literary agents and  — and the works of other  Boni to begin by saying: “I  Still, Cavanaugh said the  
even foreigngovernments.  authors who declined to  feel a little bit like Rocky  Justice Department “recog- 
The judge said it seemed  opt-out of the agreement  getting beaten around the  nizes and applauds the  
akin to a settlement in a dis­ afterlearning about it.  head and face for 15  objectives of mass digitiza­ 
crimination action contain­ “I would surmise that  rounds.”  tion. Our concern is thatthis  
ing wording that says: “I’m  Google wants the orphan  Minutes earlier, U.S.  is not the appropriate vehi­ 
releasing you now from dis- books and that’s what this is  Deputy Assistant Attorney  cle to achieve those objec­ 
criminating against me in  about,” Chinsaid.  General William F.  tives.”  
thefuture.”  Boni said attempts by the  Cavanaugh took his swings,  Attorney Daralyn J. Durie,  
He also seemed to take  litigants to notify authors  saying the Justice  speaking for Google Inc.,  
the side of some of Google’s  had already caused 620,000  Department was continuing  which is based in Mountain  
stiffest critics, including the  out-of-print books thatsome  an investigation and  View, Calif., said provisions  
U.S. Department of Justice,  would call orphan books to  believed the agreement  of the deal requiring  
when he noted that many of  be claimed by 40,000  might violate antitrust laws.  authors to opt-out if they  
those protesting the deal  authors. So far, Google has  He said Google had used  don’t want their books  
would disappear if the com- scanned about 10 million  the settlement to give it  scanned rather than requir­ 
pany was required to get  books.  rights it never negotiated  ing Google to first get each  
agreements from authors  “When there is money  for, “essentially rewriting  rightholder’s approval was  
before letting their works be  waiting for them, they come  people’scontracts.”  not an issue the company  
used.  forward at a very high  “It produces benefits to  could be flexibleon.  


GM invests $425M on Ecotec engine 
million investment, company offi-pour money into General Motors 

Associated Press 
cials said. and Chrysler last year to keep them 

TONAWANDA, N.Y. — General GM made the announcement at afloat. Motors Co. on Thursday unveiled the Tonawanda plant, which 20 “I remember hearing those one of its most substantial manufac-years ago employed 4,350 people naysayers. They said the auto turing investments since emerging but is down to about 650 employees industry is dead, it’s never going to from bankruptcy production, com-after shutting down two engine lines be here in America. We ought to mitting nearly a half billion dollars last year as part of the automaker’s give up on manufacturing,” the New to production of the next generation bankruptcy restructuring. York Democrat said. of its Ecotec engine. “It’s only been about eight months “We were right to rescue GM and 
Most of that — about $425 million since GM was in bankruptcy. We today shows that proof positive,” 
— will go to the Tonawanda engine were wondering whether we were Schumer said to cheers from work-plant near Buffalo, which will make going to survive or not, to be honest ers on the manufacturing floor. 370,000 of the four-cylinder engines with you,” said Steve Finch, the “Let this day be the last that we per year and add 470 jobs. plant’s manager. “Now we’re here talk about the end of manufacturing 
GM’s Defiance, Ohio, block pro-today talking about this kind of in America,” said U.S. Rep. Brian duction plant will get $59 million in investment and these kinds of jobs Higgins, who was also among a upgrades and gain 80 jobs. An addi-coming right here to western New cadre of elected officials that tional 17 jobs will be created in Bay York, and I couldn’t be happier.” included Gov. David Paterson and City, Mich., where a connecting rod Sen. Charles Schumer said it Reps. Louise Slaughter and Chris will be produced following a $10.5 showed the government was right to Lee. 

Boxing 
continued from page 1 
gym and learn how to fight.” 
Lee said the strong team around him has made the infant stages of his transition into professional boxing run smoothly. 
“To have them promote me and worry about every aspect outside of the ring is com­forting,” Lee said. “Knowing that, every day I can go to the gym and the only thing I need to focus on is getting better.” 
That’s where Shields comes in. For the past month, Lee has been living in Houston, where boxer and trainer have begun the process of developing a raw amateur into a polished professional. 
“The first thing Ronnie told me when I came down to the gym was, ‘I don’t train any­body who I don’t think is going to be a world champi­on,’” Lee said. “I know it’s his reputation on the line, so the fact he wanted to train me and saw potential in me means a lot.” 
Both Lee and Shields said while they are excited about the future and what they might accomplish together, the end results won’t come easy — or necessarily soon, for that matter. 
“I’m really excited about this, but it’s a process, it’s not going to be easy,” Shields said. “We feel that Mike one day has the potential to be champion of the world, but we’ve got to take baby steps.” 
Those steps began with a phone call from Lee to Shields, who had never heard of the Chicago-area native but became interested as he learned more about the Notre Dame graduate, whose career path has accelerated since winning the amateur Chicago Golden Gloves light heavyweight title last spring. 
Shields was impressed with Lee’s commitment before the two even met. Shields said when he asks prospective fighters when they could make the trip to workout at his gym in Houston, they typ­ically offer non-committal responses of “next week” or “next month.” 
Not Lee. 
“He said, ‘I can come tomorrow. I’m ready to go,’” Shields said. “I told him this is my job. I love the sport of boxing and I take it very seri­ously, so I want you to do the same … I’m going to make you work hard, and he said ‘I’m willing, I’m able and I’m ready to do it.’” 
Shields said Lee followed through on that promise from Day 1, when “he was there for the whole time” through a tough opening workout meant to test his limits. 
“Normally when I get a guy the first time, he can’t hang with me on the hand pads because I push them real hard,” Shields said. 
Lee said his typical day now begins at 5 a.m. and includes 6 a.m. cardio work­outs, a few hours of sparring in the early afternoon and, on some days, strength and conditioning work at night. 
“It’s a full day,” Lee said. 
Those who know Lee know he can withstand those phys­ical tests — it’s what boxers have to do, said former Irish football captain and current Baltimore Ravens safety Tom Zbikowski. 
“It’s a big day for this University to have a kid going into professional box­ing because you can’t be forced to fight no matter where you come from,” said Zbikowski, who scored a first-round knockout in his only professional fight with Top Rank. “Mama can’t tell you to do it, daddy can’t tell you to do it, brother can’t tell you to do it, sister can’t tell you to do it. It’s something that you’ve got inside, and Mike’s got that, regardless of his background.” 
There’s no doubt Lee is a unique figure in the boxing world, and he said his Notre Dame background, and espe­cially his relationship with the Bengal Bouts, is going to continue. 
“I knew that although I left Notre Dame and I had just graduated, Notre Dame is one of those schools that will never leave me,” Lee said. “So I’m very proud and excit­ed to say that I plan on donating and giving back percentage of my fight pro­ceeds and sponsorship pro­ceeds to the Holy Cross Missions of Bangladesh.” 
His January trip to Bangladesh “opened my eyes,” Lee said, and it made it apparent that he needed to use his professional career “as a platform to give back.” 
Current Bengal Bouts co-president Chris Cugliari said Lee’s presence in profession­al boxing will bode well for the future of the Notre Dame program and, more impor­tantly, for the future of the Holy Cross Missions. 
“Notre Dame’s never seen somebody from the Bengal Bouts really take the boxing world by storm like this, so it’s great to see one of our own make it big,” Cugliari said. “I think Mike can have a huge impact in generating awareness of the Holy Cross Missions and the impact we can have.” 
If one thing becomes clear from hearing Lee speak, or from hearing others speak about him, it is that his pas­sion for the sport gives him more than just a fighting chance. And while he has a lot of work before his profes­sional debut, scheduled for May 29 at the UIC Pavilion in Chicago, those close to him are excited about what lies ahead. 
“If you have the opportuni­ty, come out and support Mike, because I really have a feeling that his career is going to really take off,” Arum said. “And there’s nothing like seeing a career right from the beginning.” 
So what can those tuning in to Lee’s professional debut expect? 
“I know by May 29th I’m 


Professor selected for Fulbright 
Gurule, member of Law faculty, will spend Spring 2011 semester in Chile 
courts have been able to known expert in the field of 
Special to The Observer 

avoid the application of international criminal law, 
Notre Dame Professor of Amnesty Law No. 2.191, terrorism, terrorist financing, Law Jimmy Gurulé will spend which was enacted by and anti-money laundering. the spring 2011 semester in Pinochet to grant amnesty to He is the author of Chile as a Fulbright scholar. all those responsible for crim-“Unfunding Terror: The Legal Gurulé will conduct field inal acts committed from Response to the Financing of research on Chile’s legal September 11, 1973 to March Global Terrorism.” He is cur-efforts to hold persons 10, 1978— time of brutal vio-rently working on “Principles accountable for international lence by Pinochet’s military. of Counter-Terrorism Law,” crimes and “It was intend-scheduled to be published by human rights ed to be a stay Thomson West. As Under abuses commit-“[Chile] is one of the out of jail free Secretary for Enforcement in ted during the card the U.S. Department of the 
most economically for 
military rule of Pinochet and Treasury (2001-2003), Gurulé 
developed countries
f o r m e r members of his had oversight responsibilities President in South America, but administra-for the U.S. Secret Service, A u g u s t o tion,” says U.S. Customs Service, Bureau 
it has a checkered 
Pinochet. He Gurulé. “But of Alcohol, Tobacco, and 
past.” 
will work from the courts and Firearms (BATF), the Diego Portales Ministry of Financial Crimes Enforcement Law School in Jimmy Gurule Justice have Network (FinCEN), Office of Santiago. found creative Foreign Assets Control 
Professor of Law 
“ S e v e r a l ways to hold (OFAC), and the Federal Law years ago, I vis-people account-Enforcement Training Center ited Chile and was impressed. able for their crimes during (FLETC). Gurulé also served It’s one of the most economi-that period of time.” as Assistant Attorney General cally developed countries in Gurulé plans to write a book in the U.S. Department of South America, but it has a about what he learns from his Justice (1990-1992), and as checkered past,” says Gurulé Fulbright research, focusing Assistant U.S. Attorney, of the nation’s years under on Chile’s approach to avoid-where he served as Deputy the Pinochet regime. ing impunity and ensuring Chief of the Major Narcotics 
Gurulé will focus his accountability for serious Section of the Los Angeles research on how the Chilean international crimes. U.S. Attorney’s Office (1985­Ministry of Justice and the Gurulé is an internationally 1989). 

VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer Top, Notre Dame alum and former Bengal Bouts captain Mike Lee announces his intention to enter professional boxing Wednesday at the JACC. Bottom, Lee poses with his new trainer, Ronnie Shields. 
going to be a machine,” Lee said. “I have one goal, and that’s win that fight.” 


Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 



Cavanuagh ping-pong tournament supports Haiti relief 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
The women of Cavanaugh Hall held a unique event last Saturday when they hosting their a ping-pong tournament to raise funds for the relief efforts in Haiti. 
The idea of a ping-pong tournament surfaced when Liz Young and Lindsey McAlarnen, juniors and Cavanaugh service commis­sioners, were brainstorming ideas for a hall fundraiser for Haiti. 
“Our rector came up with the idea group of 16 South Bend physicians who journeyed to Haiti for ten days to provide sterile supplies, tools and equipment to a hospital in the recovering nation. Four of the group members are physi­cians for the Notre Dame ath­letic teams, and their involve­ment in the trip provided a way for funds raised to go directly to Haiti. 
“Lindsey [McAlarnen] is a student athletic trainer, so she found out about the physician group from the team doctors,” Young said. “The group was very appreciative of our dona-


awhile ago as  “The group was very  tion because  
a fundraiser for Cuba, which is where her  appreciative of our dona­tion because the Notre Dame community hadn’t  the Notre Dame com-munity hadn’t reached out  
family is from,” Young  reached out to them yet.”  to them yet.”. The remain- 
said. “She let us use the  Liz Young  der of the funds raised  
idea to sup- service commissioner  will support a  
port Haiti, but from now  Cavanaugh  H a i t i a n orphanage.  
on the tour- The tourna­ 
nament will  ment  was  
be our signa­ comprised of  

ture event supporting Cuba.” three separate brackets: 
The event raised $650 over-women’s singles, women’s all, a figure that includes the doubles and mixed doubles. sale of T-shirts, baked goods In addition, the prize for and raffle tickets. Prizes bracket winners was a ping-included Chipotle and pong paddle signed by former Starbucks gift cards and a University President Fr. soccer ball signed by the Hesburgh. men’s soccer team. However, each participating 
Most of the funds raised at team was required to include the tournament will go to a at least one Cavanaugh resi­dent. 
“It was the first time we had the tournament and we were unsure about the turnout, so we wanted to keep it contained to Cavanaugh,” Young said. 
Taking the top prize in women’s singles was senior Colleen Walter, while Lindsey Zimmerman and Ezinne Ndukwe, a duo of senior resi­dent assistants, beat out the competition in women’s dou­bles. Cavanaugh junior Mo Mathias and her partner Ross Goetz, a junior from Zahm, prevailed in mixed doubles. 
“The tournament was a really fun and creative way to raise money for Haiti,” Walter said. “I was impressed by the number of good ping-pong players in Cavanaugh, but it was also exciting to win such a great prize.” 
Mathias said the tourna­ment featured a high level of competition. 
“Winning our bracket was tough,” Mathias said. “The second game was really close, so it was a relief when we pulled through to win it, and I got to hold the Fr. Hesburgh signed paddle.” 
In addition to the three main brackets, the tourna­ment also included celebrity exhibition matches featuring several priests, the men’s soccer coach, Finance Professor Carl Ackermann and student body president and vice president Grant Schmidt and Cynthia Weber. 
Although the event attract­ed several competitive play­ers, a few participants took the tournament a little less seriously. 
“There were some intense people who brought their own paddles,” Young said. “Other people dressed up in neon outfits with crazy make­up.” 
However, the overall con­sensus was that the event was a great success. 
“The tournament was really fun. The games were fun, the music was great, and the baked goods were delicious,” Mathias said. “It should defi­nitely happen again next year.” 

Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 



The Observer 





Viewpoint 
page 10 Friday, February 19, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
The Independent, Daily Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 


MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 


ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Joseph McMahon Douglas Farmer Molly Madden Allan Joseph Carly Landon Matt Robison Graphics Viewpoint Andrea Archer Lauren Scene Brauweiler Adriana Pratt 


A future for Keenan Revue? 


The Keenan Revue is without a home for 2011. A staple on the Saint Mary’s campus for over 30 years, the Revue, with its raunchy and at times controversial humor, has consistent­ly been a popular crowd pleaser. Its tickets sell out in less than 15 minutes every year. The show is created for stu­
dents, by students, and if audience numbers are any indication, the majority of students don’t take issue with its content. 
Saint Mary’s administrators have decided not to renew their contract with Keenan because they find “the sexual nature of the skits as well as the inappropriate references to women to be incongruent with Saint Mary’s 
College mission and values,” a College official said in a recent statement. The College’s desire to uphold its identity is respectable, though lingering questions about the decision remain — the most notable of which is, after three decades, why now? 
The College’s decision is, in effect, censorship — an issue that’s been raised on both campuses. Two years ago, the Dillon Pep Rally was canceled after decades of being held before the first Notre Dame football home game of the sea­son. While administrators never openly said the nature of the content was the reason for the decision, the Pep Rally, like the Revue, was known for its salacious humor. When the Pep Rally returned this year, the format was much more “family friendly,” to the disappointment of many students. 
It’s a difficult subject. Administrators do have to draw the line somewhere, and the line between acceptable and unac­ceptable humor is not easily determined. We do acknowledge 
the responsibilities of administrators to ensure that on-campus performances are done tastefully. 
In the case of the Keenan Revue, some acts have in the past crossed the line, but perhaps administrators at Saint Mary’s could have pre­sented their concerns and reiterated their expec­tations before canceling the event contract out­right. Perhaps it would have been more valuable 
to draw the line on specific concerns and outline conse­quences for breaking guidelines, as opposed to ruling the whole event unacceptable. 
The satire found in events like the Dillon Pep Rally and the Keenan Revue is a valued tradition and entertaining experi­ence for students — when it isn’t censored. These kinds of popular events, created by students, for students, are a valu­able part of student life. Hopefully the Keenan Revue will continue in a new location next year, and the University and College administrations will recognize the value of such events, working with organizers to ensure an enjoyable experience for all, instead of outright censorship. 


Lisa Everett and family life 
The wind whipsup againstthewin­dows ofthe NotreDameBookstore café looking out onacold,graySouthBend afternoon.Inside, Mrs.LisaEverett, in a bluesweaterwithwavybrown hair anda warmsmile, is seatedas she tells Tom Bounds her story. 
The Notre 
“Igrew upina 

Dame They 
Catholicfamilyin Pennsylvania.I Know cameto Notre Damein1981and graduatedin 1985engagedto myhus­band,Fred.IstudiedintheGreatBooks Program,andwas heavilyinfluencedby ProfessorJanetSmith. Underher tute­lage, Ilearnedtolove the Church’svision formarriageandfamilylife,to the point whereIwrote my senior thesis on Pope JohnPaulII’sTheology ofthe Body. 
“After graduation, Ispent ayear study­ing atthe John PaulIIInstituteinRome, while Fredwas atNotreDameLaw School. After Ihadreturned andFred andIhadgottenmarried,Igot ajobasa researchassistanttoBishopD’Arcyto support us throughhissecond andthird years. 
“WhenFred wasgraduating,the Bishopasked us to leadthe Officeof FamilyLife together. We accepted,andI have been raising our family andworking from homeasco-director since.Ithas beenarealblessing. 
“In JanetSmith’sethics classmysopho­moreyear,everyonedidaresearchproj­ecton an ethicalissue.Ipicked contra­ception. Iwantedto know wherethe Church was comingfrom, as wellasthe argumentsontheotherside.Thatwas a pivotalexperiencefor me. 
“Ibecame convincedthat whatthe Churchteachesistrue, good andbeauti­ful. It’sgoodnews foreveryone, andfor womeninparticular.Even thoughthe impressionisoften the opposite, thatthis isoppressivetowomen,infactit’sdeeply liberatingandfulfilling. 
“Moreandmore,we are discovering thatcontraception isnotgoodfor women. 
In2005,theWorldHealthOrganization classifiedthe estrogen-progesterone con­traceptiveasaGroup1carcinogen[“suf­ficient evidenceofcarcinogenicityin humans”].InApril2009, astudydone by theFredHutchinsonCancer Research Centerfounda270percentincreasein theriskoftriplenegative breastcancer amongthosewho usedoral contracep­tiveswhileunderage18, anda320per­centincrease amongrecentusersoforal contraceptives (within oneto fiveyears). 
“Then thereisthe biochemistry.Part of sexualchemistryis based on pheromones, chemicalscent signals that are also an externalmanifestationofthe immune system.AstudyinPsychology Todayfoundthat women were attracted bysmelltotheT-shirtswornby men whose pheromonesindicated acomple­mentaryimmunesystem,withasignifi­cantexceptionamongwomen onthepill. Theywereattractedtomenwhose immune systems were toosimilar to make agoodbiologicalmatch.Whathap­pens,then,when awoman marriesa manbasedin part on thisscent experi­ence, and, whenshegets offbirth control tohave children,finds that she is no longer attractedtohim?A commoncom­plaint of women in marriage counseling is thatthey cannot standthe waytheir husbandsmells. 
“Anotherstrikingaspectisthe link between contraception anddivorce. An economist atthe UniversityofChicago soughtto explainthedramatic increase in thedivorceratebetween1965and 1975, andlooked at variouspotential contributingfactors. He foundthat over 50percent ofthe riseindivorceratewas attributable tothediffusionof contracep­tion. 
“Sexismeanttobond us as husband and wife, and one ofthe ways itdoesthat is throughchildren.Part ofthe beautyof TheologyoftheBodyisthatitunder­stands God asacommunionofpersons, wherethelove betweentheFather and SonisliterallypersonifiedintheHoly Spirit.Wearemadein thatimage, and sexualitygives usawayto expressitina veryprofound way. The childis literally the two parents in one fleshin awaythat willlast more thanthosefew minutes;in awaythatwilllastforever. It stands to reason that an attempttoseparate those two dimensions clearlyinscribedin the actwillharm both.Wefindevidence that suppressingthe creative potentialofthat actcausesthe relationalto suffer as well. 


“Conversely,we haveNaturalFamily Planning, whichbuildsmarriages.When you respectthe procreativemeaningof the act, itactuallyenhances therelation­shipbetweenthe spouses.In part, the practice ofNFPcauses youtocultivate veryimportantvirtues, like mutual respect,partnership, mutual responsibili­ty,andself-restraint. This benefitsthe marriagein thatitseeks the good ofthe other,andputstherelationshipfirst, whichisnecessaryforallaspects of mar­riage.” 
For those interestedin learning more aboutNaturalFamilyPlanning,Mrs. Everettadvises, “A wonderfulplaceto startisagoodTheologyoftheBody resource.Unless youseethe bigpicture andthebeauty ofNFP,it’s hardtounder­standthemoralnormsonsexualitythat the Churchteaches, andtoseehow they flowfrom thedesire to protectthebeauty ofthe visionandthe goodness of mar­riage andthepersons involved. 
“Awonderfulwaytodelve intothis is with other people. Form astudygroup together with somefriends, orwithina dorm. 
“Notre Dame is apartofourdiocese, and our officelovestoassist any ofits members.Wearehere to helpstudents anddepartmentsatNotre Dame promote the Church’svision.We’rehappyand eager to doanythingtohelp oncampus.” 
Tom is a Senior studying Math and Philosophy. He can be contacted at tbounds@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The Past is to be respected and acknowledged, but not to be worshiped. It is our future in which we will find our greatness.” 
Pierre Trudeau Canadian politician 
The Observer 





Viewpoint
Friday, February 19, 2010 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Bright basketball future 
I would like to applaud the efforts of the Irish Men’s Basketball team in Wednesday night’s heartbreaking loss to Louisville. I admit that my first reaction to the final buzzer sounding was anger and doubt. I won­dered if the team will win another game this season. I thought that our players were not “clutch.” After my heart stopped pounding and I took a well-deserved seat, I began to see the game for what it was (other than an inconsistent display of refereeing). 
The four years I have been here have been a roller coaster of hard-court emotions. In 2007 and 2008 we completely exceeded expectations. Our home court was defended to the tune of the nation’s longest winning streak. Men’s basketball slowly became wor­thy of a massive jump in student ticket prices because of the quality of play. Even my father, who used to hate sports with a passion, now calls me before and after every game to hear my opinions. The team manages to earn respect in the toughest conference in the country. The game against Louisville was a testament to the players’ resilience and hard work. We lost, but even the announcers could not help rooting for us. 
I was worried that our team would be horri­ble next year without Jackson and Harangody (in that order). But tonight proved to me that we will be competitive, if not pretty good. The players who kept us in the game tonight were the guys that are going to be on the court next year and for the next few seasons. Thank you for making Notre Dame basketball exciting to watch. I’d rather be disappointed in a team that lost on the road to a perennial power than convinced that we never had a chance in the first place. Go out and win the rest of our regular season games — starting with Pitt! Win two or three games in the Big East tournament. Make it difficult for the selection committee to leave us out. 
George Kiamos 
senior off campus Feb. 17 


Words of social justice 
Mr. Easley’s letter (“Words of wisdom,” Feb. 
18) contains less wisdom and more ideologythan you might expect. Acall to the American ideal of workinghard to lead a decentlife is admirable and inspiring, butdoes it really work? I cannot definitively sayyes or no, butbased on the opportunities and intelligence I see in those around me, includingthe students who attend this university, in comparison withthe rest of the population ofthe U.S., Ican imagine the percent­age ofpeople who workhard, withoutbenefit of opportunity andintelligence, to end up in a posi­tion of “decentliving” is low. 
The question is then raised, what is decentliv­ing?When, if at all, do we have a rightto it? Beliefs from Catholic SocialTeaching are that “decent living” does not occur atthe poverty level, andthat we have a right to decentliving at all times. Mr. Easleydoes an admirable job of recognizing that work has dignityin the closing ofhis letter, butless so in recognizingthe rights of workers to respect and dignity, adignitythat includes wages satisfyingthe basic needs for food, clothing, shelter, health, education, security and rest; not all of which are met at the poverty wage, even if aperson is not working alone, or is working more than one job. Referringto awage increase, to a paycheckthatis more in line with the “decent living” thatCatholics believe in, as a “handout from this University” is aslapin the face to workers’ dignity, Mr. Easley, as is your questioning ofthe rightto live at acertain level. This is not a discussion ofpeople “getting ahead.” One shouldn’thave to sacrifice anything in order to live aself-sufficient life. 
Kurt Nowak 
junior Duncan Hall Feb. 18 


No ‘words of wisdom’ 
For all of those who agree with the individu­alistic, personally advantageous, and money grubbing opinions of Mark Easley (“Words of wisdom,” Feb. 18), I encourage you to remem­ber the Catholic values you hold so dearly and so readily espouse. 
The complete selfishness and disregard for those who are not only less fortunate than many students here, but for those who contin­ue to be taken advantage of in a system that does not fairly compensate all of its employees for their lives of hard work is purely astound­ing. Call me socialist or whatever other biting leftist epithet you can think of, but the fact remains that those who are restricted by the socioeconomic structures limiting their employment opportunities ought to receive more than a catty thanks at the end of a long list telling them why they don’t deserve better. 
It is clear that there is plenty of money to be shared among every single member of the Notre Dame employed “family.” With tuition skyrocketing and the University endowment towering in the billions, the University’s freeze on wage raises should come to an end, and their workers should be paid justly according to the tenets of our mission state­ment. The end of which claims that it is the University’s “aim is to create a sense of human solidarity and concern for the common good that will bear fruit as learning becomes service to justice.” To agree with Easley’s “words of wisdom,” would simply foster the sort of apathy and detachment that directly contradicts the notion that this university works as a loving family. I can only express disgust for the complacency of Easley’s response and hope that the economic hard­ships our country is facing does not effect our campus’ desire to affect change where change is due. 
Anthony McHugh 
senior off campus Feb. 18 


Poetry explained 
Asstudentswhoorganizedthe poetryreadinginthelounge of McKenna Hall onSaturday, wewouldlike toclarifywhattookplace. When wesawtheEdithSteinConferenceschedule,we becamecon­cernedthatthepanelon “Homosexuality andIdentity”wasassert­ing aone-dimensionalviewoftherelationshipbetween Catholicism andhomosexuality, andthatitdid notgivespaceto other voices which aretryingtoenter thisdebate. 
We decidedto readqueer poetrybyestablished andemerging poets, such as AkilahOliver,AllenGinsberg,AnneWaldman, Carol AnnDuffy,JohnWieners, ShaneAllisonandWaltWhitman—all of whomtakeverydifferentaesthetic approaches. We also askedpeo­ple to bringpoemsandto readthem aloud. Thiswas our wayto affirm LGBTidentitiesanddesires. 
Inthee-mailwhich wehadcirculatedjustthe previous dayinvit­ingpeople to jointhe reading,we had madeit clear that wewould readforhalf an hourbeforethe panel,that wewantedadialogue withMelindaSelmysandtheother panelists, andthatwe wouldbe attendingthelecture/panelto listen totheir views. Ourintention was notto disruptthepanelbutto make ourselves heard,toexpand theboundaries oftheconversation aroundhomosexuality. Thus, whenwewere informedthatthe lecturewas aboutto begin,we once again invitedeverybodypresenttoattendthe panel with us. 
Any“young children” wesaw atthe protest were pre-verbal;we certainlyhad not expectedchildrentobepresentatafrank,intel­lectualdiscussion. 
We wouldliketothank alltheorganizers oftheEdithStein Conference forenablingthismuch neededconversation, andhope thatthis dialoguewillcontinue on the Notre Dame campusinarig­orous, thoughtful,inclusive manner. 
Ailbhe Darcy 
graduate student off campus 

Monica Mody 
graduate student Fischer Graduate Residence 

C. J. Waterman 
graduate residence off campus Feb. 17 



Just mediocrity 
As loyal members ofthe Leprechaun Legion,we havedecidedthat the mediocrityofNotreDame Men’sBasketballmustbe uncovered. For toolongnow, NotreDameBasketballhas beenanythingbut impressive.TheIrishbasketballsquadhasmade oneFinalFour appearancein its entirehistory. The teamhas notmade itpastthe Sweet16in 29years.Fourteen ofthoseyears,theydid not evenget invitedtothe tournament. We havethe 12thlargestbudgetin the BigEast. Ourfacilitiesare improving,but still notstate-of-the-art. Fundamentals havetakenabackseatto offensiveshowboating. Neitherheartnordefense exists,asseen from our recentlosses to Rutgers, Seton Hall, St.John’sandLouisville.Theonlyplayersthat showany amountofwell-roundedtalent are ToryJackson, as alum­nus Joe Schuelleraptly statedin hisopinion “Celebrate Tory Jackson,” andthefreshmen, whoshow moreheartthansomeof oursenior captains. Tothosethatactuallycareaboutmen’s basket­ball, like wedo,shouldn’t wefindit oddthatonlythe footballpro­gramchanges direction afterthree to five years ofmediocrity? Wouldit not makesensefor the basketballprogram todothe same? 
Granted, MikeBreyhas donearemarkablejobattemptingto buildthe program. He hasthe secondbestwinningpercentageof currentBigEast coaches andhasbeen namedBigEastCoachofthe Yeartwice. Theseare three veryimpressive statisticsfor Coach Brey.However, ifhewouldliketocontinue hisone-man offense, the NewJerseyNets are calling.There, he candraftLuke Harangody andcontinuetopursue hisdreams ofwinning.Itistime for theIrish Men’s BasketballTeamtohoistthe NCAAChampionshipTrophy,or atleast make itbackintothe “Madness.” 
Aaron Strumpf 
freshman Keough Hall 


Rob Toole 
freshman Keough Hall Feb. 17 


The Observer 





Scene
page 12 Friday, February 19, 2010 

By MAIJA GUSTIN, DECLAN SULLIVAN, JORDAN GAMBLE, STEPHANIE DePREZ, BRANDY CERNE, NICK ANDERSON 
Scene Writers 







ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 



Scene
Friday, February 19, 2010 page 13 

Contact Scene writers at mgustin@nd.edu, dsulliv9@nd.edu, jgamble@nd.edu, sdeprez@nd.edu, bcerne1@nd.edu and nanders5@nd.edu 







ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 

OLYMPICS 

Lindsey Vonn crashes, German rival benefts 
Associated Press 
WHISTLER, British Columbia 
— For all the worry about her famously injured shin, it was a common skiing mistake that ended Lindsey Vonn’s bid for a second Olympic gold medal in two days. 
Though Vonn’s bruised right leg was “killing me,” she said she simply failed to get her ski around a right-hand gate and fell in the slalom run of the super-combined. 
“The shin wasn’t the reason why I didn’t finish the race,” Vonn said. “It was just because I hooked a tip, and that happens in ski racing all the time. I just wish it wasn’t at the Olympic Games.” 
Maria Riesch of Germany won the event, helping to atone for her failure to challenge best friend and biggest rival Vonn in Wednesday’s marquee downhill race. 
Vonn, who once worried about being able to ski at all in these Olympics, was fastest in the morning downhill run of the super-combined but was visibly in pain after the twisting slalom run on an icy, bumpy course pressed her ski boot against the badlybruised shin. 
Last among the leaders to ski in the afternoon slalom, she was 
0.07 seconds ahead of Reisch’s pace at the first checkpoint but fell behind by 0.18 seconds on the bottom half of the course. She then straddled a gate, and the ski flipped off before she fell forwardto the snow. 
Vonn’s husband said the injury was only significant because it kept her from training after a Feb. 2 crash during pre-Olympics practice in Austria. 
“It did play a role in the fact that she hasn’t been able to ski slalom in, like, three weeks,” Thomas Vonn said. “She had the mindset of going for gold and it’s the Olympics. That’s what you’re here for, and she’s capable of winning. So she wanted to go for it, and not ski safe and go for a silver or bronze.” 
Vonn will get a day off Friday before her next event, Saturday’s super-G, where she is an overwhelming favorite. She also is entered in the giant slalom and slalom next week. 
Riesch had a total time of 2 minutes, 09.14 seconds to beat Julia Mancuso of the United States by 0.94 seconds. Mancuso gother second silver medal after being runner-up to Vonn in the downhill. 
Anja Paerson of Sweden took the combined bronze, 1.05 behind Riesch. Paerson’s sixth career Olympic medal in just nine starts tied her old rival Janica Kostelic of Croatia for most by a woman in Alpine rac­ing. 
Vonn, the two-time defending World Cup overall champion who lives and trains in Vail, Colo., was injured but benefited from weather delays that wreaked havoc with the Alpine schedule the first six days of the Vancouver Games, wiping out most training and races. The super-combined was originally scheduledfor lastSunday. 
Vonn said her leg was as sore as ever after Wednesday’s down­hill. 
“It’s not good. It’s really hurt­ing and I’m just struggling with it,” she said, “butthere’s nothing really I can do. I just have to try to do therapy and try to tough it out today, and then tomorrow willbe agoodday off,” she said. 
Vonn said her downhill run in the morning was solid but she struggled to find energy, less than 24 hours after an emotion­ally exhausting victory in her signature event. 
“It was along, longdayyester­day, and I didn’t get as much rest as I was hoping for,” she said. “Especially with my shin, I need a little bit more time and therapy to try to get it to feel better.” 
Vonn struggled in slalom this season even before the shin injury. She has failed to com­plete a two-run race in four of seven World Cup events, and her best result was runner-up behind Riesch at the opener last November in Levi, Finland. 
Riesch, who trailed Vonn by 
0.33 after the downhill run Thursday, punched the air and pressed her hands to her gog­gles in delight when she saw her time. 
“I really can’t believe I did it,” she said. 
Riesch came into this, her first Olympics as the biggest threat to Vonn’s predicted domination of the women’s Alpine events but was a disappointing eighth in the downhill. 
“I was really nervous. That was the problem for the down­hill,” she said. “Today I was much more calm, more confi­dent.” 
She had an anxious momentin the combined downhill, run on a shortened course with the final jump shaved down after a series of ugly crashes Wednesday. She got too much air in a small jump before the halfway point and veered momentarily off course before correctingher race line. 
Mancuso moved up a place after being third-fastest in the downhill leg. She jumped for joy after finishing her slalom run and then fell back on the snow, her skis in the air. 
NBA 
McGrady dealt to Knicks 
Associated Press 
The Cleveland Cavaliers hope they took another step toward keeping LeBron James. The New York Knicks are in better position for a run at him—and a second superstar, too. 
And they aren’t the only team lining up for a chance to become a summer spender. 
The Knicks acquired former scoring champion Tracy McGrady on Thursday in a three-team swap with the Houston Rockets and the Sacramento Kings. The deal left them on the verge of being able to offer two maxi­mum salary contracts to the 2010 free agent class that could be headlined by James. 
Amare Stoudemire could be in the market for one if he decides to leave Phoenix— where he’ll again finish the season after spending the weeks before the deadline atop the trade rumor mill. 
“I’ve maintained that unless there was something out there that improved our team and put us in a lot better position moving forward, then we weren’t going to do any­thing. And that was the case,” Suns general manager Steve Kerr said. 
Chicago, Washington and Sacramento all cleared enough salary in moves before the 3 p.m. EST dead­line to be able to afford a max player, and the Los Angeles Clippers got close. 
The Cavaliers gave James more reason to stay home. They acquired forward Antawn Jamison on Wednesday, a deal that could make the Eastern Conference leaders even stronger. 
“We’re trying to build a franchise that all players want to be a part of, that can have sustainable success and do things at a high level,” general manager Danny Ferry said. “Clearly LeBron’s an important player for Northeast Ohio, for Cleveland, for the Cavaliers. It’s all ground in winning, too. Antawn can help us win. We’re excited what he can bring to us over the next few years.” 
The Knicks can afford a run at James, and perhaps some­one else in the class that could include Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh. 
By including Jared Jeffries in the deal for McGrady, whose $22.5 million contract expires after this season, the Knicks removed $6.9 million from next season’s payroll and left them with about $32 million in salary cap space. Those top free agents would each earn a little more than $16.5 million in the first sea­son of a max deal. 
In the meantime, the Knicks hope McGrady can lead them into the playoff race. He’s only played six games this season after returning from knee surgery, but is con­vinced he has plenty left. 
“I can’t wait to get back on the court to continue doing what I love to do,” McGrady said in a statement on his Web site. “I am excited to be headed to New York and look forward to wearing a Knick uniform. I know that I can and will contribute to this organization. It’s a dream to play in New York and there is nothing that compares to playing in the Garden.” 
To get him, they sent Jeffries and rookie Jordan Hill to Houston along with a protected first-round pick in 2012, and gave the Rockets the right to exchange first-round picks in 2011. The Rockets will get high-scoring guard Kevin Martin and for­ward Hilton Armstrong from Sacramento, while the Kings received Larry Hughes from the Knicks, Carl Landry and Joey Dorsey from Houston and sent guard Sergio Rodriguez to New York. 
The Bulls were busy, trad­ing power forward Tyrus Thomas to Charlotte for a future, protected first-round pick and the expiring con­tracts of guards Flip Murray and Acie Law. 
Chicago also dealt guard John Salmons to Milwaukee for Hakim Warrick and Joe Alexander, whose contracts also are expiring. 

“You can see the price to be paid to gain flexibility and in a lot of cases, it was very, very high. You’ve got to give something to get something,” Bulls GM Gar Forman said. “That’s why I think we feel so good today that we kept the nucleus intact, our starting lineup intact, and yet gained the type of flexibility that we wanted to gain to make that next step in the process we wanted to make this sum­mer.” 
The Wizards and Clippers also shed salary in the three-team deal that sent Jamison to the Cavaliers. They joined the Knicks, New Jersey Nets, Miami Heat and Bulls as the teams with the most money available. 
Also Thursday: 
 The Utah Jazz traded shooting guard Ronnie Brewer to the Memphis Grizzlies for a future first-round draft pick. 
 Milwaukee made a sec­ond trade, sending rookie guard Jodie Meeks and center Francisco Elson to Philadelphia for guard Royal Ivey, center Primoz Brezec and a second-round pick in the 2010 draft. 
 Sacramento acquired swingman Dominic McGuire and cash from Washington for a protected 2010 second-round pick. 
 The Bobcats made anoth­er minor trade, acquiring vet­eran big man Theo Ratliff from San Antonio for a sec­ond-round pick. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Off-Campus housing 2010-11 and 2BR/2BA UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 160 2011/12. Finsh Bsmnt not go it alone. ———————————————­
FOR RENT PERSONAL The Tornado thinks that this is, in Irish Crossings, Dublin Village, 2 Car GA Notre Dame has many resources in fact, lamesauce. Wexford Place. 1 mile to campus If you or someone you care about place to assist you. ——————————————— 
Faculty/grad students. has been sexually assaulted, we “I’m the decider, and I decide what Also a few houses and Villas. $575/month can help. If you or someone you love needs is best.” 2 bdrm, 2.5 bath, LR, DR, FR, Cell 574-215-7785 confidential support or assistance, ——————————————— 
Some furnished. ———————————————-For more information, visit Notre please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 “Families is where our nation finds Florida room, utility room. B&B for ND parents by ND parents. Dame's website: or Ann Firth at 1-2685. hope, where wings take dream.” 2-car attached garage. Security Call 574-298-4206. Junior Parents Weekend. ——————————————— system. http.csap.nd.edu For more information, visit ND's “I know the human being and fish 
CES Property Management 2-night min. 10 mins. to ND. ——————————————— web site: can coexist peacefully.” Available now. 262-332-0015. ——————————————— HAPPY BIRTHDAY, ——————————————— Shown by appt. 1616 E. Colfax. gradrentals.viewwork.com 574-272-5640 SUE PAWLICKI! http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu “As long as I’m dictator.” ——————————————— ——————————————— ———————————————-——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 


Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Friday, February 19, 2010 
page 15 

NCAA Men’s Basketball Division I Coaches’ Poll 
team previous 
1 Kansas 1 2 Kentucky 2 3 Villanova 5 4 Purdue 6 5 Syracuse 3 6 Duke 7 7 Kansas State 9 8 West Virginia 4 9 Gonzaga 11 10 Georgetown 8 11 Michigan State 10 12 Ohio State 16 13 Butler 15 14 BYU 17 15 New Mexico 19 16 Wisconsin 13 17 Texas 14 18 Tennessee 12 19 Vanderbilt 24 20 Temple 21 21 Pittsburgh 23 22 Baylor NR 23 Texas A&M NR 24 Northern Iowa 18 25 Wake Forest NR 
NCAA Women’s Basketball Division I Coaches’ Poll 
team previous 
1 Connecticut 1 2 Stanford 2 3 Nebraska 4 4 NOTRE DAME 3 5 Tennessee 5 6 Xavier 6 7 Duke 7 8 West Virginia 8 9 Ohio State 9 10 Florida State 10 11 Oklahoma 12 12 Georgetown 13 13 Iowa State 17 14 Texas 19 15 Texas A&M 11 16 Kentucky 16 17 Oklahoma State 14 18 Virginia 21 19 Baylor 15 20 Georgia 18 21 Vanderbilt 22 22 Gonzaga 23 23 St. John’s (N.Y.) 24 24 Hartford 25 25 TCU NR 


aroundthe dial 
NBA 
Mavericks at Magic 8 p.m., ESPN 
NHL 
Devils at Sharks 
10:30 p.m., Versus 
GOLF 


Tiger Woods to speak about affair 
Associated Press 

PONTE VEDRA BEACH, Fla. — Tiger Woods’ first public appearance in three months already is shaping up as a national event. 
Tight security restricted access on the road that leads to the TPC Sawgrass clubhouse, where Woods is to speak at 11 a.m. EST Friday for the first time since his Nov. 27 accident that set off sordid revela­tions of infidelity. 
Newtworks reworked their programming and, by late Thursday afternoon, seven satellite trucks had already parked outside the Sawgrass Marriott. The parking lot last saw this kind of activity five years ago — for media day at the Super Bowl between the New England Patriots and Philadelphia Eagles. 
All because Woods — surely one of the world’s most-recognized athletes 
— is about to re-emerge and say something in per­son regarding his future and his past. 
The public hasn’t had a clean look at Woods’ face since photos Wednesday of him jogging in his neigh­borhood outside Orlando. 
Far more compelling will be the sound of his voice. Woods has not been heard in the 78 days since a magazine released a voice­mail he allegedly left one of the women to whom he has been romantically linked, warning that Woods’ wife might be call­ing. 
Instead of going on “Oprah” or another nation­al television show to break the ice, Woods essentially will be speaking to the lone camera allowed in the room. It will be televised via satellite. 
Three networks — ABC, CBS and NBC — will carry the statement live. ESPN will have it live on all its platforms, including Internet streaming, radio and mobile. The Golf Channel will start coverage at 10:30 a.m. — call it a 30-minute pregame show. 
Almost as intriguing is which “friends, colleagues and close associates” will be in the Sunset Room on the second floor of the Mediterranean-style club­house at the TPC Sawgrass. 
PGA Tour commissioner Tim Finchem, who made the clubhouse available and is offering logistical help, has said he would attend, and as many as four other members of his executive staff will be in the room. 
Everyone else will con­gregate at the Sawgrass Marriott to watch on short circuit. The adjacent ball­rooms looked ready to hold a Super Bowl party, with flat-screen TVs along the walls and a large video screen in the center of the room. 
IN BRIEF 

Angels, Erick Aybar agree to one-year deal 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. — Infielder Erick Aybar and the Los Angeles Angels agreedThursdaytoa$2.05million,one­year contractthat avoided asalary arbi­trationhearing. 
Aybar batted .312 with five homers and58RBIslastseason.Hecanearnan additional $100,000 in performance bonuses: $50,000 each for 575 and 625 plateappearances. 
Aybar was seeking a $2.75 million deal after making $460,000 last year. The Angels countered with an offer of $1.8million. 
His agreement came Thursday as Angelspitchersandcatchersreportedto springtraininginArizona. 
Angels catcher Jeff Mathis had his hearing, asking for a raise from $450,000 to $1.3 million. Los Angeles arguedthatheshouldbepaid$700,000. 
A decision by arbitrators Elliott Shiftman, Steven Wolf and Margaret BroganisexpectedbyFriday. 
NFL hires Vincent as VP of player development 
NEW YORK — The NFL named for­mer All-Pro cornerback Troy Vincent vice president of player development for active players on Thursday. 
Vincent, who will join the league office on February 22, was a five-time Pro Bowler who played for Miami, Philadelphia, Buffalo and Washington and was president of the NFL Players Association for four years until March 2008. 
He will oversee a broad array of support programs for players and their families, including the Rookie Symposium, Conduct Management Program and LifeSkills, and will work on new programs that will address the needs and concerns of incoming and current NFL players. 
“I appreciate this opportunity to continue to be involved in the NFL working with active players and tomorrow’s NFL athletes,” Vincent said in a statement from the NFL. 
Bills shocked by RT Butler ’s retirement 
ORCHARD PARK, N.Y. — Buffalo Bills starting right tackle Brad Butler announcedhisretirementonThursday. 
The news comes as a surprise to the Bills after the 26-year-old Butler just completedonlyhisfourthNFLseason. 
Butler majored in government stud­ies at Virginia, and spent the 2008 off­season interning at Kemp Partners in Washington DC with former and late Bills quarterback and congressman JackKemp. 
“My passion for education, country and community is something that I am readytodevote myfull attention to,” he said in a statement released by the team. “I believe the best way to pursue thesespheresofinterestis tostepaway from the game of football at this point inmylife.” 
Butler started all but two of the 33 career games he played in after being drafted in the fifth round of the 2006 draft. 

OLYMPICS 

U.S. defeats Norway by comfortable margin 
Associated Press 
VANCOUVER, British Columbia — It took nearly all 60 minutes for the U.S. hockey team to get the blowout it want­ed. 
Nursing a two-goal lead for much of the final two periods, the Americans broke it open against Norway on Thursday when defenseman Brian Rafalski scored twice in the final three minutes of a6-1 victory. 
Phil Kessel and Chris Drury had first-period goals, Patrick Kane stretched the lead to 3-0 in the second, and Ryan Malone added his second goal of the tournament to back seldom­testedgoalie Ryan Miller. 
The Americans improved to 2­0 in these Olympics. They held a 39-11 edge in shots over Norway, which has been outscored14-1 in two games. 
Rafalski’s first goal with 3 minutes remaining came shortly after Olympic swimming great Michael Phelps left his rinkside seat. Rafalski finished the late outburst in the last minute. 
After winning only once in six games (1-4-1) four years ago in Turin, the United States will have a chance to capture Group A with a victory over heavily favoredCanada on Sunday. 
With only a 3-1 victory Tuesday over Switzerland, the 
U.S. was in danger of tiebreaker problems should it fall to Canada. Four teams clinch spots in the quarterfinals, while the other eight countries will play for the other four spots. Goal differential is a key tiebreaker, so lopsided wins are beneficial. 
The Americans held a 15-2 shots advantage through the first period and 23-9 after 40 minutes. But Miller was beaten for a short-handed goal by Marius Holtet in the second. 
That gave the Norwegians, seeded 11th in the 12-team tournament, something to cele­brate after an 8-0 loss in their opener to Canada on Tuesday night. 
Chants of “USA USA” broke out less than 20 seconds in and before the Americans recorded their first shot. Unlike Wednesday, when ABBA music was played during stoppages of Sweden’s game against Germany, U.S. artists—Bruce Springsteen, John Denver, Bon Jovi—were on the playlist. 
Not to be outdone, many fans decked out in red—Norway and Canada varieties — yelled sup­port for the decided underdogs. 
The Americans’ top line con­nected in the second period for its first goal. Kane slipped a pass to Zach Parise at the left point and charged to the net as the New Jersey Devils’ forward fired a shot. Pal Grotnes, who despite allowing four goals called the loss to Canada the best game he ever played, left a big rebound off his pad that Kane steered into the open right side to make it 3-0 at5:52. 
Grotnes didn’t finish the game against Canada and was said to have leg cramps. 
The U.S. had numerous chances to put the game away on its power play, but never got it in sync. Kane made a nifty move deep in the zone to get around a defender, drawing ooohs from the crowd. But instead of shooting, he tried to pass to captain Jamie Langenbrunner on his left wing. 
The puck missed its target, and Holtet led a 2-on-1 rush the other way. Holtet zipped a drive from the right circle that eluded Miller’s blocker and found its way in off the post at 8:37 to bringNorway within 3-1. 
Miller was better with 4:22 remaining in the period when he did the splits to stop a redi­rected shot off the stick of Anders Bastiansen that barely caught his pad before it could findits way into the net. 
The Buffalo Sabres star goalie, who U.S. coach Ron Wilson said will start every game barring something dras­tic, faced only two shots in the first period, but both were prime scoring chances for Jonas Andersen. The second was a one-timer from the right circle that had Miller darting across the crease. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Vanderbilt recruit killed 
POWDER SPRINGS, Ga. — A high school football star who had signed to play at Vanderbilt University was shot to death early Thursday by his mother’s ex-boyfriend shortly after police arrived to investigate a report of a person with a weapon, authorities said. 
Officers heard four or five gunshots around 2:30 a.m. as they arrived at the home where Rajaan Bennett, 18, lived with his mother, said Powder Springs Maj. Charles Spann. Inside they found Bennett, a running back at McEachern High School who was rated among Georgia’s top college football prospects, dead of a gunshot wound. 
Boyd said Clifton Steger, 39, of Milledgeville shot Bennett and then killed himself. Bennett’s uncle, Taiwan Hunter, 32, was wounded and under­went surgery. He was in critical condition Thursday afternoon. His mother, Narjaketha Bennett, and two other children were unharmed. 
It was not clear what prompt­ed the shooting, but Spann said there was no sign of a struggle. He also said there had been no previous reports of domestic violence at the west Georgia home. 
“We are still investigating,” he said. “We won’t make any assumptions until we finish our investigation.” 
McEachern football coach Kyle Hockman said while Bennett excelled on the football field—he rushed for more than 1,800yards and 28 touchdowns last season—he also led an exemplarylife outside of sports. 
“He was an All-State football player, but he was a better per­son,” he said. “He touched the lives ofthousands.” 
Bennett picked Vanderbilt over other schools because he feltit wouldhelpbetter prepare him for life after football, Hockman said. Vanderbilt coach Bobby Johnson said in a statement that Bennett “was an extraordinary young man and an idealfit” for his program. 
“Our thoughts and prayers are with his mother Narjaketha and family members,” he said. “I know he meant so much to them.” 
Bennett, a native of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., had an out-sized reputation at McEachern, a sprawling school on the out­skirts of west Atlanta that sports a football field in the middle of campus. 
“We have a population of 2,200 kids, and when you’re Rajaan Bennett, you touch the lives of all2,200,” saidprincipal Regina Montgomery, who added that counselors will be on handto help students. 
More than 100 hundred stu­dents gathered at a somber candelight vigil in the pavement surrounding a park near the school, singing songs and shar­ing stories about Bennett. A poster sat near the middle of the vigil that read: “God only takes the best.” 


NBA 

Nets to move to Newark 
Associated Press 
TRENTON, N.J. — The New Jersey Nets are going to play in Newark, at least for the next two seasons. 
The NBAteam reached adeal withthe state to move their reg­ular-season games to Newark’s Prudential Center until their new arena isbuiltin Brooklyn. 
Under the deal, the Nets will pay a $4 million penalty over two years to get out of their lease at the Izod Center in the Meadowlands in East Rutherford, their home since 1981. 
The New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority voted to approve the deal Thursday morning. Details of the arrangement were announced Thursday afternoon by Gov. Chris Christie’s office. 
“This is a good agreement for the Nets and a good agreement for New Jersey,” said Jon Hanson, who chairs a gover­nor’s gaming, sports, and enter­tainment commission and who workedonthedeal. 
The Nets plan to finish the current season at the Izod Center and move to “The Rock” in downtown Newark for the 2010-11 and the 2011-12 sea­sons. 
The team, which will continue to practice and be headquar­tered in an East Rutherford office about a mile from the Izod Center, plans to move into a new arena in Brooklyn for the 2012-13 season. 
“This temporary move not only gives our fans a state-of­the-art arena with the first-class amenities common in most NBA buildings, but also provides our players with a great atmosphere in which to play,” Nets chief executive Brett Yormark saidinastatement. 

Yormark said the move also allows the team to grow its fan base in Essex and Union coun­ties, as well as withfans in New York City who can use mass transitto attendgames. 
“We are confident that the NBA family will see this as a positive move, as we do,” Yormark said. “We look for­ward to being part of the com­munity in Newark and will con­tinue our extensive community outreachin the area.” 
The Nets are struggling this season. They have won only 5 of54games and needfivevicto­ries to avoid the NBA record for fewest wins in a season (9-73) set by the Philadelphia 76ers in 1972-73. 
The Nets likely will have a very high pick in the NBA draft in June. The team has plenty of salary cap space for potential free agents this summer. Among the players eligible to seek free agency are LeBron James, Dwyane Wade andChris Bosh. 
Mikhail Prokhorov, the Russian tycoon who has agreed in principle to buy the team, has indicated that he will spend money to sign free agents once the league approves the sale. 
Officials have long tried to broker atruce between the Izod Center and the Prudential Center; while the Nets played in East Rutherford, the New Jersey Devils called Newark home. 
The deal means that the Devils, Nets and Seton Hall will be playing in the Prudential Center. 
“The Nets, Devils and Seton Hall all played at Continental when it was called that and it wasn’t a problem,” said Devils owner Jeff Vanderbeek, refer­ringto the previous name ofthe Izod Center. “I am confident if they came here it would work outfine.” 
The agreement reached Thursday contains a non-dis­paragement between Izod and Prudential, with the Newark arena focusing on sports and the Izod Center concentrating on concertsandfamily shows. 
As part of the agreement, the $4 million penalty can be offset by various credits, including up to $250,000 each year for the guarantee of proceeds to bene­fit the Newark Symphony Hall; up to $100,000 each year for the leasing of two Prudential Center suites to the Sports and Exposition Authority, one dur­ing Nets games and one during general events; and, up to $100,000 each year in advertis­ing credits. 
The Nets played two presea­son games in Newark, both drawing far more than usual at the Izod Center. The announced crowd for their 96-92 presea­son loss to New York was 15,721. 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Orange survive Hoyas, keep conference lead 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Andy Rautins scored a season-high 26 points, and No. 5 Syracuse blew most of a 23-point lead before escaping with an exhausting 75­71 victory over No. 10 Georgetown on Thursday night. 
The Orange (25-2, 12-2 Big East) never trailed in improving to 7-0 on the road and 6-0 against ranked teams. Coming off a home loss to Louisville, Syracuse built an 11-point lead in the opening 4 minutes and led 60-37 with12:37left. 
That’s when the Hoyas (18-7, 8-6) finally found their shooting touch — and the Orange went cold. Syracuse made only two baskets in the final 8 minutes, and shot 33 percent with 10 turnovers in the secondhalf. 
The comeback started with a 10-0 run. After Rautins connect­ed from beyond the arc, two more Georgetown baskets made it 63-51 with 7.5 minutes left and brought the crowd in the Verizon Center to its feet. 
Rautins then made two foul shots, but the Hoyas followed with a 9-0 spree to close to 65­
60. Minutes later, Austin Freeman converted a three-point play and added a dunk to make it67-65 with3:12to go. 
Georgetown closed to 71-70 with 1:10 remaining and had a chance to take the lead, but a shot by Jason Clark bounced off the rim. Kris Joseph then scored on a drive for the Orange with 
8.4 seconds left, and after a free throw by Clark, Rautins sealed the win withtwo foul shots. 
Freeman scored 21 points for Georgetown, and Chris Wright andGregMonroe had20 apiece. 
Syracuse guard Wes Johnson, who suffered through a 5-of-20 shooting performance against Louisville, had 16 points and eight rebounds. Rick Jackson contributed 12 points and eight rebounds. 
The Hoyas, who lost at Rutgers on Sunday, are mired in their first losing streak of the season. But they certainly made it interesting against their long­time rivals, who finish with a regular-season sweep after win­ning by 17 points at home last month. 
Frustrated by a tight Syracuse zone defense, the Hoyas went 9 of 29 (31 percent) from the field in the firsthalf. 
The Orange made five of their first six shots to quickly go up 13-2. After a 3-pointer by Wright got the Hoyas to 15-6, Rautins followed with two free throws and a 3-pointer — giving him half of Syracuse’s first 20 points. 
Things then temporarily unraveled for the Orange. Georgetown went on a 12-2 run, and with 9:35 left, Syracuse starting center Arinze Onuaku picked uphis thirdfoul. 


SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles close season with trip to Albion 
By TIMOTHY SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s concludes its regular season in an impor­tant conference battle at Albion Saturday. 
The game could have a major impact upon the seed­ing of the MIAA tournament. Currently, the Belles sit alone in third place in the confer­ence. However, with a loss, Saint Mary’s would enter into a tie for third with Adrian. 
“A lot is at stake,” Belles coach Jennifer Henley said. “Every single game matters.” 
Despite a los­ing record, Albion will 

come out tough “A lot is at stake. against Saint 
Every single game
Mary’s as they battle for fifth matters.” place in the conference. 
Jennifer Henley 
Briton juniors 

Belles coach
Melissa Shaw and Keigan Edwards lead the team in average points per game with 
14.1 and 9.7, respectively. To be able to combat the Albion guards, the Belles will have to put forth a top defensive effort. 
“They have very good guard play,” Henley said. “They have great outside shooters and defense will be huge.” 

Defense is certainly going to be key. The Belles carry defensive momentum after a solid defensive performance in their previous game against Albion. The Belles allowed only 59 points and won by a 20-point margin against Olivet Wednesday. 
Albion is a dangerous team, poised for an upset of the Belles who are riding high on a great victory in their final home game of the regular season. Their record does not speak of the damage that they could inflict upon the Belles. 
Albion holds a five-game win­ning streak over the Belles. Saint Mary’s has not defeated the Brits since Valentine’s Day of 2007. 
“Albion has been a team that has always gotten 

us,” Henley said. “We need to go in there and prove some­thing to ourselves.” 
Saint Mary’s hopes to do just that as they travel to Albion for tip-off at 3 p.m. Saturday. 
Contact Timothy Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 
ND looks to end losing streak 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish opened the season with an 11-3 victory over Creighton, but now Notre Dame finds itself looking to end a four-game losing streak when it plays another four games over the weekend at the Southern Miss Mizuno Classic. 
The Irish (1-4) will play Louisiana Tech and Southern Miss Saturday followed by Alcorn State and Stephen F. Austin State University Sunday. 
“Our goal for this upcoming weekend is to put out the best Notre Dame product out on the field,” Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. “I don’t believe we have done this yet.” 
Last weekend, the Irish lost to the defending national champion and top ranked Washington Huskies, Oregon State, Oregon and Auburn after opening the season suc­cessfully against Creighton. 
“Every team we play will give us challenges,” Gumpf said. “We are facing good opponents. Our main focus is on us, making sure we are playing consistent, hard, tough softball.” 
For each of last weekend’s losses, one bad inning or one bad play changed Notre Dame’s confidence on the field and at the plate. 
The Irish have been work­ing on changing different aspects of the game to make sure to eliminate the small mistakes this coming week­end. 
“Primarily we focused on our defense being more injury. 
Miller’s status for this weekend is still not deter­mined, but Ganeff claims that this setback will not deter­mine the Irish’s chances of pulling out a few wins this weekend. 
“[Miller] is a great competi­
aggressive on the short game and working with on field communication during situa­tions,” assistant coach Kris Ganeff said. “Offensively we have been working on attacking first 
pitch strikes and executing situations in order to score more runs.” 
After working on different areas of their defense and offense, Gumpf said she feels confident about the talent of this year’s team. 
“I believe we have what we need to be successful in all three facets of the game. We have strong pitching, solid defense and great hit­ters,” Gumpf said. “We are a very good team that hasn’t put our best product on the field yet.” 
In addition to the four loss­es at Arizona State last week­end, the Irish also lost sopho­more infielder and power hit­ter Dani Miller due to a back tor who brings a lot to the 
“Our goal for this 
field, but we upcoming weekend is know that we 
to put out the best have depth on the bench 
Notre Dame product 
ready to fill in out on the feld.” if anyone of our starters go out with an injury,” 
Deanna Gumpf 
Ganeff said. 
Irish coach 
The Irish con­
sistently play difficult teams during the beginning of their season with the intention of getting good field experience in before their Big East games. The preparation necessary to be ready for in-conference games makes each of the early games important as the Irish hope for a repeat Big East Championship win and another ring this season. 
“Every game we play is important,” Gumpf said. “We need to start gaining some momentum and consistency.” 
Tournament play begins for the Irish Saturday at 3 p.m. at Hattiesburg, Miss. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 


NBA 

Anthony’s shot tops James 
Associated Press 
CLEVELAND — Carmelo Anthony scored 40 points, includ­ing the winning basket, and the Denver Nuggets overcame LeBron James’ triple-double and ended the Cleveland Cavaliers’ 13-game streak with a 118-116 victory in overtimeThursdaynight. 
James had his triple-double by the end of regulation, finishing with 43 points, 13 rebounds and 15 assists, but Anthony matched him shot for shot, hitting the win­neronadeepjumperoveranout­stretched James with 1.9 seconds left. 
Denver’s Kenyon Martin had 18 points and a season-high 17 rebounds, but the night belonged to two of the three top scorers in theleague,whoputonquiteadis­play. Anthony played 48 minutes, adding seven assists and six reboundsfortheNuggets. 
Denver had plenty of motivation to begin the secondhalf ofits sea­sonwithawin. 
Nuggets coach George Karl was on the benchdespite battling nau­sea and headaches in recent days as a result of chemotherapy. Karl coached his first game since dis­closing Tuesday he has neck and throatcancer. 
James and Anthony entered first and third in the league in scoring, respectively, and didn’t disappoint. The two combined to make just4 of20 shots in the first quarter, then spent the rest of the night hitting huge shots in each other’sface. 
The Cavaliers had a chance to win it at the buzzer, but James slipped while receiving the inbound pass and his 3-pointer rattled off the rim. An exhausted James, who played 47 minutes, missed his final four shots in over­time. His triple-double was the third ofthe season and27th ofhis career. His 15 assists tied acareer high. 


Karlwilllikelymisssomegames and practices while undergoing a rigorous six-week treatment pro­gram of radiation and chemother­apy, but he accompanied the Nuggets on their two-game trip to Cleveland and Washington, where DenverplaysonFriday. 
Shaquille O’Neal had 18 points and seven rebounds and J.J. Hickson had 14 points for Cleveland, which made just 23 of 40freethrows. 
On the day the Cavaliers intro­duced Antawn Jamison as their newest star, their old one was at his best. James’ big night came with Oscar Robertson in atten­dance.Robertson,whoaverageda triple-double during the 1961-62 season, was honored before the game along with Jerry West, JamesandAnthonyasco-captains of U.S. Olympic gold medal bas­ketballteams. 
Robertson and West captained the Americans’ gold medal in 1960, while James and Anthony weretheco-captainsin2008. 
OLYMPICS 
Lysacek takes figure skating gold for U.S. 
Associated Press 
VANCOUVER, British Columbia — Evan Lysacek brought down the champion. 
Lysacek became the first 
U.S. man to win the Olympic gold medal since Brian Boitano in 1988, shocking everyone — maybe even himself — by upsetting defending champion Evgeni Plushenko on Thursday night. Plushenko came out of retirement with the sole pur­pose of making a little histo­ry of his own with a second straight gold medal. 
Plushenko, the last to skate, held up both index fingers when he finished, as if to say, “Was there ever any question?” As it turned out, yes. 
And it wasn’t really that close. 
When Plushenko’s scores were posted, someone in the arena screamed out, “Evan Lysacek has won the gold!” Backstage, surrounded by longtime coach Frank Carroll and pairs gold medalists Shen Xue and Zhao Hongbo, Lysacek threw back his head in disbelief and utter elation. 
Lysacek, the reigning world champion, finished with a career-best 257.67, 
1.31 ahead of the Russian. Daisuke Takahashi won the bronze, the first Japanese man to win a figure skating medal at the Olympic Games. 
Lysacek was the first of the big guns to skate in the last group, and he played it safe for the first three minutes of his 4 1/2 -minute program. He had long decided against doing a quad, not wanting to risk further damage to the left foot he’d broken last spring. But everything he did was technically perfect. His jumps were done with the control and dependability of a fine Swiss timepiece, and his spins were so well-cen­tered you could see the tight little circle of his tracings clear across the ice. 
He didn’t skate with all his usual flair and charisma. But when he landed his last jump, a double axel, Lysacek let loose. His face was so expressive budding actors should take note, and he fixed the judges with a king­ly glare during his circular steps. Fans were roaring their approval as he finished his final spin. 
The last note of his music was still fading when Lysacek pumped his fists and screamed, “Yes! Yes! Yes! Yes!” He clapped his hands and skated to center ice, throwing his arms out wide to the crowd and blowing kisses. He put his arm around Carroll, who had yet to coach a gold medalist despite a list of past and present skaters that read’s like a Who’s Who on Ice. 


MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish travel to face Huskies 
Observer Staff Report 
The Irish head to Washington this weekend to close out their five-match road series as they take on the Huskies. 
No. 35 Notre Dame (3-4) first met the No. 25 Huskies on the court in 2000 with Washington (7-1) holding a 2-1 advantage. The Irish first defeated the Huskies 6-1 on March 5, 2007 at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
The Huskies recently had a weekend sweep of Mississippi State and East Tennessee State on Feb. 5 and 7. They have also defeated Gonzaga, Arkansas, Portland, UC Irvine and Boise State. Their only loss went to Illinois, whom the Irish will face on March 2. 
Notre Dame staged a come­back on Feb. 13 at Michigan, but the Irish fell short with a 4-3 loss to the Wolverines. They fell behind at the start, but rallied to a 3-3 tie. The Wolverines slid past the Irish in the third set of the final sin­gles match. 
No. 18-ranked sophomore Casey Watt started the Irish scoring bid with a 6-3, 7-6 (7­
4) win at No. 1 singles over No. 50 Jason Jung. Junior Daniel Stahl was victorious at No. 3 singles with a win over Mike Sroczynski 6-2, 3-6, 6-3 while fellow junior David Anderson earned the third Irish point at No. 6 singles with his 7-6, (7-5), 6-3 win over Chris Cha. None of the Notre Dame doubles pairs were victorious. 
Washington will be the sev­enth nationally-ranked oppo­nent the Irish face out of eight matches this spring. 
Notre Dame will take on the Huskies in Seattle at 6 p.m. Saturday, Feb. 20. 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles look for frst win of season 
By LUKE MANSOUR 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s will continue their string of tune-ups for con­ference play when they take on Olivet Nazarene today at the Eck Pavilion. The Belles (0-1, 0-0) are looking to record their first win of the season after falling to non-conference oppo­nent Case Western to open up their schedule. 
Olivet Nazarene will be another opportunity for the Belles to shake off the early season rust before opening up conference play in a little over a month. 
The Tigers will provide a tough test for the Belles, sport­ing an NAIA Regional Championship just three years ago. 
They have also qualified for the NAIA National Tournament in each of the last four seasons. 
Their overall record in the 2009 season was 17-7. 
The Belles will follow up their match against Olivet Nazarene with a tilt against North Central College. That will complete the Belles’ set of matches before taking their annual preseason training trip to Orlando over the mid-semes­ter break. 
During the trip, the Belles will compete against six sepa­rate colleges, mostly from the Midwest, in a prelude to their conference season. 
The Belles take on Olivet Nazarene tonight at 6 p.m. at Eck Pavilion. 
Contact Luke Mansour at lmansour@nd.edu 
MEN’S SWIMMING 
Notre Dame retains lead at Big East meet 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish men retained their lead in the overall standings at the Big East Championships in PittsburghThursday. 
When the final event of the dayfinished, the Irishheld a30­point lead over Louisville and a 60-point lead 
over host “We’re ready for the topoftherankings 
Pittsburgh. challenge the next at the end of the Freshman Bill Championship’s 
few days.” 
Bass posted the sixthday of action. biggest swim of The 200-meter the nightfor the Tim Welsh freestyle relay Irish, as he Irish coach team composed of came in seventhin the 50-meter freestyle, an event that saw Cincinnati’s Josh Schneider set Big East and Cincinnati school records. Junior Steven Brus, who was the defending champi­on in the 500-meter freestyle, finished fifth in the same event withatimeof4:26.66. 
Ultimately, the Irish needed a 
strongfinishin the 
night’s final event 
in order to stay on 
broke the Notre Dame record in the 200-meter individual medley preliminaries in the morning and then pro­ceeded to top that mark during the championship round with a time of1:46.44, good enoughfor secondintheevent. 
“What a tremendous effort for afirstyear swimmer in our pro­gram,” Irish coach Tim Welsh said to und.com after the meet. “We could not be more proud of him.” 
Bass’s swim into the record books was the highlight of a night that saw many other Irish swimmers make contributions. Decorated senior John Lytle seniors Lytle and 
Andrew Hoffman, 
junior Joshua Nosal and freshman Kevin Overholt delivered. The squad, which came out of the prelimi­naries seeded sixth out of 10 teams, posted a time of 1:20.93, good enough for third in the eventandstakingtheIrishtothe leadtheynowenjoyheadinginto the final two days of competi­tion. 
“We’ve got our work cut out for us and we’re ready for the challenge these next few days,” Welshsaid. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 


Schrage 
continued from page 24 
tive hitters in outfielder A.J. Pollock and shortstop Jeremy Barnes to the MLB draft last May. 
Pollock and Barnes com­bined for 25 home runs and 122 RBIs, but senior captain and designated 

“I think we’re going to
hitter Ryan Connolly is be more of a confident the 
manufacture-runs 
team’s balance 

type team.” 
will be enough to fill the void. “We just need Dave Schrage to be more con-
Irish coach 
sistent. I think we have the potential this year, instead of having two guys hit 12 to 15 home runs and drive in 60 runs, we can have six or seven guys hit five to seven home runs and still drive in runs. We have a dif­ferent dynamic, and I think it will make us a different team to play against.” 
Led by Connolly and junior captain Mick Doyle, Schrage believes the Irish are more than capable of handling the best the Big East has to offer. 
“No question about it, you have to play to your person­nel,” Schrage said. “I think we’re going to be more of a manufacture-runs type team. We’ve been working a lot on hitting and running, and run­ning and hitting. We have to be more aggressive on the base paths. We’ve got a little bit less power, so you have to make up for it with base run­ning.” 
The Irish will rely heavily on the experience and depth of the pitching staff to keep them in close games. Junior captain Cole Johnson, who led the team with 94.2 innings pitched and 64 strike­outs in 2009, returns as the Irish ace. Schrage will use a rotation of Johnson, senior Eric Maust, junior captain Brian Dupra and freshman 
Steve Sabatino, each of whom can pitch deep into games. 
“It’s going to be a bit more balanced,” Schrage said. “We’re coming in with a lot of confidence with four starting pitchers right now, and at the 
end of games we’re really going to need our bullpen. They can take a little bit of pressure off of our starting staff.” 
The Irish hope the biggest improvement from 2009 will be the ability to win consis­tently on the road. Notre Dame finished 6-7 away from Eck Stadium, a trend Schrage says he would like to reverse when the Irish open the sea­son Friday with a three-game series against the Delta Devils. 
“When you play on the road you have to be a lot more mentally tough,” Schrage said. “You have to overcome a lot of the obstacles on the road. Any sport it’s tough to win on the road, but good teams find a way to get it done.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
Duke 
continued from page 24 
returning captain and fifth-year senior Scott Rodgers. 
“We’re excited about our captains and the leadership throughout the team, which is one of our real strengths,” Corrigan said. 
Notre Dame’s strength lies in moving through the sea­son as a team. The Irish came out of 2009 first in the nation with a school record 
6.19 goals-against average, and their offense was 10th in the nation averaging 11.00 goals per game. Notre Dame will look to bring these assets and also illustrate some of its other strong points in Saturday’s game. 
“We want to be fundamen­tally sound, athletic, be aggressive and play with a high IQ of the game,” Corrigan said of his team. “Those are what we pride ourselves on, what we’ve built our program off of, and what we’re going to look for coming out of this game.” 
Notre Dame and Duke will open the season Saturday at 1 p.m. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 




Road 
continued from page 24 
Schrader, who injured her left ankle Sunday against DePaul, is an uncertainty to play against the Hoyas, Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. Though Schrader did well in Wednesday’s practice, McGraw said, the final decision will be made at game-time. 
“That will affect us a lot. [Schrader] is a big part of our offense, and with her defense and rebounding,” 

Barlow said. “It “We’ve got four same number as makes us a much Irish freshman 
games left. We’ve 
smaller team guard Skylar 
got to fnish strong.” 
with her out of Diggins. the lineup, we Georgetown is have to play four Muffet McGraw coming off of a guards most of 54-50 win over 
Irish coach 
ment season. 
“The Big East is going to be tough all the time,” she said. “You’ve got to be ready for it. We’re at the time of year when we have to start peaking.” 
The Irish will need to do so against a Georgetown squad that resembles their own — the Hoyas specialize in forcing turnovers (25.8 per game to Notre Dame’s 23.9) and even have a standout freshman in guard Sugar Rodgers. She leads the team with 17.9 points per game and has garnered Big East freshman of the week honors four times, the 
the time. I mean, we can do it. We’ve just got to get back to playing the way we know how.” 
Junior guard Brittany Mallory replaced Schrader in the starting lineup Tuesday and took full advantage, tally­ing 17 points and five rebounds. Junior forward Devereaux Peters also stepped in to fill the void and added 9 points and a career-high 14 rebounds. 
“They step up in big moments,” Barlow said. “When they’re needed, they rise to the occasion. I would expect noth­ing less from them. They know that when they’re called upon, they produce for us.” 
The game at Georgetown (21­4, 10-2) is Notre Dame’s second straight road game against a ranked team. McGraw said the schedule’s toughness could work in her players’ favor as they prepare for the tourna-South Florida 
Wednesday. 
Saturday’s game will be the Hoyas’ senior game, as well as their Pink Zone game for breast cancer aware­ness. Notre Dame’s Pink Zone game was Sunday. 
The game will have impor­tant implications for Notre Dame in the Big East — if the Irish win, they will secure a two-round bye in the confer­ence tournament. Additionally, the Irish and Hoyas are cur­rently tied with West Virginia for second place in the league and a win could give either team sole possession of the second slot. 
“Every game is important from here on out,” McGraw said. “We’ve got four games left. We’ve got to finish strong.” 
Tip-off is at 3 p.m. Saturday at McDonough Arena. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
CCHA 
continued from page 24 
butacknowledge. 
“Over our week off, we sat down and it is what it is. We’ve realized where we’re at,” the alternate captain said. “We know we aren’t going to get a first round bye. We realize we aren’t in the national tournament right now.” 
Despite these dire facts, the Irish refuse to throw in the towel on the season. With sophomore wing Billy Maday and junior defenseman Ian Cole finally returning to the lineup after more than a month injured on the bench, Lawson saidthe team seespotentialforalaterun. 
“We are going to approach these next four [games] like we are playing for everything, because after these four games ourlivesareontheline,”Lawson said. “We’re just looking to get 
Illini 
continued from page 24 
Illinois we know they will play hard and be ready to take us on.” 
The Irish will attempt to take down the nation’s best women’s tennis team, the Northwestern Wildcats, Sunday. The Wildcats recently moved up to No. 1 after winninglastweekend’sITAKick-Off Weekend National Tournament, which the Irish did not qualify for after the loss to NorthCarolina. 
“With Northwestern we are excited to play the top-ranked team to see where we stand,” Louderback said. “We always have good matches against some momentum, get some guys back in the lineup, and hopefully build some continuity and some chemistry.” 
Before his injury, Maday was theteam’sleadingscorer,andthe Irish have missed the scoring potentialhebringstotheice. 
Without Cole keeping Lawson company on the defensive line, forwardshaveneededtofillinon the back line, further depleting the offensive firepower, but, hopefully, with added bodies, these tendencies will finally break, Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. 
“Wehavetofindawaytoscore goals, whether it is off face-offs or the power play,” Jackson said. “There have been times where it looked really good, but then you take guys like Cole and [junior defenseman Teddy] Ruth out of thelineup,andyouareonlyplay­ingwithfourdefensemen.” 
This weekend maybe the ideal weekend for the Notre Dame offense to break loose once and 
Northwestern.” 
Aside from being the top team in the nation, the Irish look toward the Wildcats as a big rivalry as the two teams have played each other for many sea­sonsinarow. 
“We play [Northwestern] every year, and we know the coaches, the players, their attitudes, their playing styles, basically every­thing,” sophomore KristyFrilling said. “Every year is more com­petitive than the next, so I’m anticipating an intense match withthemonSunday.” 
Frilling will more than likely play Northwestern’s Maria Mosolova, who was ranked in the nation’s top singles position last season and defeated Frilling inthefallportionoftheseason. 
The Irishlostthe doublespoint for all. Bowling Green has given upthemostgoalsintheCCHAby 13, and have also scored the fewest goals. Nonetheless, Jackson will not let his team underestimatetheFalcons. 
“They aretenacious,they work extremely hard,” he said. “Their record isn’t great, but they are goingtoplayconfident,intenseat home. … They will not sit back andletusbeatthem.” 
Yet Jackson knows what is at stake by now for the Irish. Two wins could spark some momen­tum, while anything else will leavetheteamstalledin10th. 
“This weekend is about trying to start getting some sort of momentum going into the play-offs,”Jacksonsaid. 
The puck will drop in Notre Dame’s second-to-last weekend of the regular season at 7:05 
p.m. Friday night and 5:05 p.m. Saturdaynight. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
in their last win against Michigan, so Louderback has been working on rearranging their doubles lineup a little to ensurethatNotreDamewinsthe ever crucial doubles point in bothmatchesthisweekend. 
“I think this weekend we have changedthe doubles teams abit, to get a different feel and to see how these new teams work out,” Frilling said. “We’ve been prac­ticing with these different teams the past two weeks, and every­one is looking good and excited to try these changes this week­end.” 
Notre Dame hosts Illinois at 1 
p.m. Saturday andNorthwestern at1p.m.Sunday. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  14  
15  16  
17  18  
19  20  21  
22  23  
24  25  26  
27  28  29  
30  31  
32  33  34  35  36  37  38  
39  40  41  
42  43  44  
45  46  
47  48  49  
50  51  
52  53  

CROSSWORD 

Across 27 Organ repair 1 Ticketed sites, for short 6 Chilled 28 Like some coats 15 Chilling 29 Fine point 
16 Constellation 30 Land of a Million once called the ElephantsDragon's Wing 31 Bill 
17 Tenor Mario 32 Printing press 18 The Who's parts“Quadrophenia,” 35 A cappella group e.g. 
part19 Microscopic 
36 Joe-___ weed protists 

(herbal remedy) 21 Part of a picket 
39 Perfume, in a
fence 
way22 Docs who've 
40 Suffix with 
paid their dues 
techno­23 Lettuce variety 
41 1930s Royales 24 Japanese code 
42 ___ milk
word meaning 43 Be fourth in an
“tiger” order
25 Tandoori-baked 45 Union and 
breads others: Abbr. 
26 Singer of theLeoncavallo aria 
46 “Well done!” “Vesti la giubba” 47 Reveled 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


49 In Key West it'sknown as the Overseas Hwy.
50 “You're probablygoing to get me,but go ahead”
51 They result fromcatching bugs
52 Set sail 
53 Break off a relationship 
Down 
1 School in the Patriot League 
2 Well-suited? 3 Bad traits for conductors 4 Aloe target,perhaps
5 Silas who was the United States' first foreign diplomat(1776)
6 Bicep builders'accessories 
7 Process of mountain building
8 Walt Disney has more of these than anyoneelse 
9 Great ___ 
10 Post-punk genre
11 Returns, as from a high level
12 Makeup of some jokes
13 Briefly 
14 Stereotypicalcollege drinker 
20 OB's performthem 
26 Bye for an Italian soccer team? 
WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 

Puzzle by Joe DiPietro 
28 Suffix after 33 Fresh angle 38 Zener cards are kitchen used in it 
34 Add gradually, 

29 Irk as to dough 40 City on the Strait 30 Factor in a more of Dover 
35 Virtuoso 

healthful diet, 41 Outs, in a wayperhaps 36 Certain table 
43 “The Hobbit” 31 Food item once tennis grip characterused as currency 37 1941 Glenn 44 Draw forth 

in Mongolia Miller hit that 32 Event with pairs spent five weeks 48 It can come on and eights at #1 white, briefly 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Friday, February 19, 2010 page 24 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Road redemption 
After loss, ND looks for road win in D.C. 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
After suffering only its sec­ond loss of the season, both on the road, Notre Dame travels to the nation’s capital to take on No. 14 Georgetown Saturday. 
The No. 4 Irish had not lost in eight straight games before they fell to No. 22 St. John’s Tuesday, and that was follow­ing a 15-game winning streak separated by a loss to top-ranked Connecticut. Now, Notre Dame (23-3, 10-2 Big East) looks to build up another streak. 
“We’ve just got to bounce back,” senior captain Ashley Barlow said. “We have to come in and work hard and get after it in practice. We practice hard. We’ve just got to transfer that stuff into the game.” 

Senior guard Lindsay SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 
Freshman guard Skylar Diggins drives during Notre Dame’s 90-66 victory over DePaul on Feb. see ROAD/page 22 14. Diggins and the Irish look to get back to their winning ways Saturday at Georgetown. 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Irish look to defend home court 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
After suffering their first loss of theseasonagainstNorthCarolina on Jan. 31, the Irish host Illinois Saturday and top-ranked NorthwesternSunday. 
“We are treating these matches like our national indoor since we didn’t make it to the tourna­ment,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. “I think we will be excited to play both teams for differentreasons.” 
First this weekend, the Irish will take on the Fighting Illini, who are not currently ranked in the NCAA but still boast a highly respectable program in collegiate women’stennis. 
“Illinois is coached by Michelle Dasso who was an All-American atNotre Dame and was my assis­tant for three years,” Louderback said. “With Michelle coaching at 
see ILLINI/page 22 


MEN’S LACROSSE 

Ninth-ranked Notre Dame opens season against No. 2 
ahead,” Irish coach Kevin semifinals, and are ready to entering the NCAA we need to play with concern 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 

Corrigan said. “We aren’t prove themselves stronger Championship. The Irish won for our own team in our first 
Sports Writer 

going to worry about goals this season. With a roster of both the Great Western game of the season,” Corrigan 
and expectations for the sea-17 seniors and fifth-year sen-Lacrosse League regular-sea-said. “We need to play with 
The Irish open a new sea-son. That only means we had iors in addition to their son and tournament titles in the lacrosse IQ and the ath­son ranked ninth in the pre-a good team at the end of last younger players and return-the conference’s final season. letic intensity that can distin­season USILA coaches’ poll, season. We’re getting into ing All-Americans, including With the creation of the Big guish our team.” and have been picked to fin-this game and are concerning the nation’s top attacker Max East’s men’s lacrosse league, Returning for Notre Dame ish second in the newly ourselves with a very experi-Quinzani, the Blue Devils they might have a slightly are six starters and 16 letter-formed seven-team Big East. enced and strong Duke team.” return a strong attack. greater challenge with rivals winners, including first-time But Notre Dame’s only con-And the Irish are right not However, Notre Dame has such as Syracuse, senior captains Mike cern right now is opening the to be thinking ahead of Duke. proved itself to be a force in Georgetown, Providence, St. Creighton, Neal Hicks and season against No. 2 Duke The Blue Devils finished the the past as well, finishing the John’s, Rutgers and Villanova. Kelley McKenna, as well as Saturday. 2009 season with a loss to 2009 season with a 15-1 cam-“[Duke] is going to be a 
“We don’t look too far Syracuse in the national paign and the No.7 seed challenge, but more than that see DUKE/page 21 
HOCKEY 

Two return from injuries 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
With only two weekends left in the regular season and Notre Dame looking up from 10th place in the conference standings, the Irish are simply seeking momen­tum, beginning in a two-game series this weekend at Bowling Green. 
Notre Dame (12-13-7, 8-10-6-2 CCHA) was tied for fourth in the CCHA when it headed up to Western Michigan two weeks ago. A Broncos sweep and a week of inaction droppedthe Irishto third from the cellar in the conference, and a first round bye in the con­ference tournament was all but ruled out, a fact senior defense-man Kyle Lawson could not help 
see CCHA/page 22 


BASEBALL 
Squad heads south for ‘10 season opener 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
As the Irish lace up the cleats for the 2010 season opener against Mississippi Valley State this weekend, the ultimate goal in the back of their minds will be a bid to the College World Series. Fourth-year Irish coach Dave Schrage says that’s exactly where a trip to Omaha should be: the very back of his players’ minds. 
“I know it’s cliché, but we’ve just been focusing on getting better every day and trying to be the best team we can be,” Schrage said. 
“We’ve been through January, and we told our guys we don’t want to talk about Mississippi Valley or Omaha or winning the Big East. We want to talk about getting better every day.” 
Notre Dame has made sig­nificant strides over the past two seasons, improving its win total steadily from 28 in 2007 to 36 in 2009. The year’s team features 7 returning position players and 12 pitchers, an asset Schrage believes will be invaluable early in the sea­son. 
Nevertheless, Notre Dame lost two of its most produc­
see SCHRAGE/page 21 






