the 
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Alumni respond to call for Haitian relief 
Class of 2009 Valedictorian Brennan Bollman among those to provide care for victims at makeshift hospital 
By KATIE PERALTA 
Assistant News Editor 
Fundraising and advocacy are two immediate term relief efforts in the aftermath of the Jan. 12 earth­quake in Haiti. Rebuilding the country’s institutions like the med­ical care system is one long-term effort the University is now under­taking, Brennan Bollman, a Notre Dame graduate and the 2009 vale­dictorian, said. 
Last week, the University sent out a formal appeal to alumni of a vari­ety of medical professions, from plastic surgery to dentistry, through the Tom Dooley Society to organize consistent schedules for physician participation in sustained medical relief at a field hospital in Léogâne, where Notre Dame’s Haiti Program is based. 
“We’re trying to balance varying times that people would be able to give,” Bollman said. “Ten-day trips for some, seven to eight days for more surgically oriented people. We are open to people who are willing to offer longer-term sup­port.” 
The purpose of the outreach to the wide range of alumni doctors, she said, is to ensure there are medical caregivers present at all times. 
“We want to provide effective care and we want to make sure our teams overlap so that there always is care and the service is present,” she said. “That’s the idea for now.” 
Bollman said the University’s ini­tiatives are a part of an effort to rebuild and sustain Haiti’s own institutions along with other non­governmental organizations (NGOs) that have experience working in Léogâne, which is located about 18 miles from the capital Port-au-Prince. 
“We will be located on a tempo­rary site where we can provide medical care for at least the next six months,” Bollman said. “We will asses how we can work this into the Haitian medical system long­term.” 
Bollman, who is taking a one-year leave of absence from Harvard Medical School, is a part of the next group of Notre Dame alumni who will go down to the devastated Caribbean nation to provide medical care to earthquake victims. 
“What we’re taking care of with teams over next several weeks is acute trauma issues,” Bollman said. “Notre Dame alumni have been performing amputations, [treating] fractures [and other] pretty serious wounds.” 
Ralph Pennino, a plastic surgeon and ‘75 graduate, is president of an NGO called InterVol, which coordi­
see HAITI/page 6 



Diversity conference addresses contemporary issues 

By KATLYN SMITH 
News Writer 
The third annual Notre Dame Diversity Conference examined current hot topics in business ranging from the gender gap to Latino markets Friday and Saturday at the Mendoza College of Business. 
The conference, sponsored by the MBA program, featured a case competition, panel discus­sions and addresses by business leaders. 
Second-year MBA student and Diversity Conference co-chair Trea Savage said this year’s theme, “Diversity and the Bottom Line: What Diversity Means to You,” developed from a need to relate diversity to all students. 
“Last year’s theme was ‘Celebrating Differences While Achieving a Common Goal,’ and a lot of the speakers spoke on the struggles that minorities have in the workplace,” Savage said. “I got feedback from a lot of my classmates who were Caucasian or majority students, and they didn’t feel like it resonated with them and I’m a firm believer that diversity includes all people, not just minorities.” 
Savage also wanted to convey how diversity impacts a business’ bottom line. 
“I knew as an MBA student, that diversity was important to a business,” Savage said. “We all believe that a larger talent pool brings creativity [and] brings bet­ter decision-making, and so we really wanted to translate that message.” 
Patrick Perrella, director of MBA Career Development and faculty advisor to the event, said this year’s conference reflected a change in how businesses oper­ate. 
“Diversity was really thought of as affirmative action hiring, and ‘we really need to have represen­tation from these different ethnic groups in our office,’” Perella said. “It’s really moved on from that.” 
“People are thinking about how diversity enriches a business, how it helps business reach their cus­tomers better, and reach a wider 
see DIVERSITY/page 3 


Local cab companies examine student usage 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
On any given weekend, a cab driver will experience at least one student bolting from the cab with­out paying, president of Blue Ribbon Taxi Kerry Clear said. 
“I doesn’t seem too much differ­ent than ever,” he said. “When people are drunk they pretty much do the same things that they’re going to do.” 
Student body president Grant Schmidt said the key to preventing students from bolting is to increase communication between the stu­dents and the drivers. 
Schmidt said before getting into a cab, students are responsible for asking how much the fair will be and for asking if the driver has change. In turn, the driver should work on being up front about how much the ride will cost and having 
see CABS/page 3 



For McKillen, music is life 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
From charity concerts to AcoustiCafe to this year’s B1 Block Party, senior Pat McKillen is a regular on the Notre Dame music scene. His constant presence on the performance circuit has earned him a sizable stu­dent fan base and perform­ance opportunities outside the University. 
McKillen got his musical 
see MCKILLEN/page 6 



INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC Food Drive page 3  An ode to Hot Box Pizza page 13  Women’s basketball wins, Diggins scores 23 page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, February 8, 2010 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Thoughts on coloring 
As a child, I remember choosing each crayon color with meticulous precision as I created my coloring book masterpiece. It was always a huge debate. Blue or green. Red or purple. 
I saw each crayon color as distinct and irre­placeable. If I lost my green crayon, it seemed like the end of the world because I could no longer draw Sarah Mervosh aliens, trees or grass. 

Assistant 
But what I did-

News Editor 
n’t realize then is that I could make green by combining blue and yellow. It wasn’t the perfect, man­ufactured green I was used to, but it worked fine all the same. 
And so it is with life. Day to day struggles seem like the end of the word when seen without context or a larger perspective. When our significant other breaks up with us, it feels like we’ll never love again. When we do poorly in a class, we jump to the conclusion that we won’t get into medical or law school. 
But what we really need to do is take each broken relationship, every failed test and learn from it. Try different boyfriends, different study strategies, different crayon colors, until we learn what works best. 
Sooner or later, we learn that combining yellow and blue makes green, and maybe that green cray­on wasn’t so necessary after all. We learn that one failed test isn’t a reflection on our intellectual abili­ties. We learn that life goes on after break-ups, and we even learn to love again. 
Life isn’t one-dimensional, and it sure as hell isn’t perfect. So why were we taught that we could only use the green crayon to draw grass and that a “pretty” drawing was one that stayed inside the lines of the coloring book design? 
I spent my whole childhood striv­ing to choose the “right” crayon colors and making sure not one crayon mark went outside the line. This is also how I’ve lived most of my life. 
I needed to get straight A’s in high school, and admittedly, most of the time I still feel like I do. But as I get older, I’m starting to get more comfortable with imperfec­tion. 
I’m slowly allowing myself to deviate from the pre-drawn design in the coloring book. After I get over the initial feeling of panic, it usually turns out to be kind of fun. At the very least, I always find my way back to the coloring book page with new colors to use and a new perspective. 
Maybe John Mayer said it better than I can: “They love to tell you stay inside the lines, but some­thing’s better on the other side.” 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at 
smervosh@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WAS THE BEST COMMERCIAL DURING THE SUPERBOWL? 






Katie Pryor  Mike Benvenuti  Theresa Palid  Kate Newhart  Patrick Tighe  Mark McGuire  
freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  senior  senior  
McGlinn  Siegfried  McGlinn  Ryan  Keough  Keough  
“The Doritos  “The Bud Light  “I really liked  “The Magic  “None. Most of  “I don’t know. I  
commercial  Beer House  the Tim Tebow  Fridge one from  them were  just watched  
with the dog  commercial.”  ad.”  like two years  offensive to  the puppy bowl.  
and the ‘no  ago.”  women.”  They just show  
barking’ collar.”  Pedigree  

commercials.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Irish Dance Gold Team performs their dance to “Reel Around the Dome” at the Welsh Family Hall’s 2010 DanceFest Saturday. 
OFFBEAT 
Pot smoker accused of trying to bribe urine tester 
GRAND JUNCTION, Colo. — A pot-smoking parolee in Colorado faces criminal charges for allegedly offering a cash bribe to try to pass a drug test. Police said a 34­year-old man tried Jan. 3 to bribe a state worker to allow him to use a device called a “Whizzinator” to pass a drug test he had to take while on parole. The man allegedly said he had a medical mari­juana card, though officials couldn’t confirm whether that was true. 
Colorado’s medical mari­juana law allows convicted criminals to get cards, but those on parole still must pass drug tests. State lawmakers are currently weighing new marijuana rules that would prevent people on parole from having the cards. 
Prosecutors said the man offered a state worker $300 after the worker found him with the “Whizzinator,” a device of tubing and heater packs attached to a prosthetic penis sold to cheat drug tests 
. Man accused of stuffing 75 bottles of lotion in pants 
SPRINGFIELD, Mass. – Police say a Massachusetts man who stuffed 75 bottles of body lotion in his pants could-n’t slip away from authorities, hampered by slacks that were nearly bursting at the seams. 
Springfield police say 30­year-old Chamil Guadarrama of Framingham was charged with larceny after the incident Wednesday night at Bath and Body Works in the Eastfield Mall. 
Police say mall security offi­cers chased Guadarrama, but he had stuffed so many of the eight-ounce lotion containers in his pants that he could barely run. Police say he could not bend over to get in the police cruiser until some of the bottles were removed. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight TUESDAY wednesday 

IN BRIEF 
A Mass of Thanksgiving will be held Tuesday at 5:15 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart to formally welcome Bishop Kevin Rhoades to the Diocese. The Mass is open to the public. 
A Majors Night will be held Tuesday at Heritage Hall in the Joyce Center from 6:30 to 
8:30 p.m. Students can enter through gates 1 and 2. 
A poetry reading by Jacqueline Vaught Brogan will be held Wednesday from 
7:30 to 9 p.m. at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. She will be reciting her own poem 
“Damage.” 
Tim Robbins’ The Actors’ Gang will perform “The Trial of the Catonsville Nine” Thursday at 7 p.m. at the Decio Mainstage of the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Ticket information is available online at performingarts.nd.edu 
Pangborn Hall will sponsor a “Project Pink” fashion show Thursday from 7 to 9 
p.m. in the LaFortune Ballroom. All proceeds will go to the South Bend S-O-S Rape Crisis Center. The event will include a clothing auction, Undertones performance and raffle prizes. 
AcoustiCafe, which features live musical performances by students, will take place Thursday from 10 p.m. to midnight in the LaFortune Basement. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

Atlanta 53 / 36 Boston 34 / 17 Chicago 29 / 22 Denver 46 / 25 Houston 65 / 40 Los Angeles 62 / 47 Minneapolis 24 / 20 New York 34 / 21 Philadelphia 34 / 18 Phoenix 64 / 45 Seattle 56 / 38 St. Louis 31 / 24 Tampa 67 / 52 Washington 36 / 19 

Monday, February 8, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
SMC athletes host party for children 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
As a way to celebrate Valentine’s Day, Saint Mary’s athletes came together to throw a party for the chil­dren of Memorial Hospital’s Oncology and Hematology Departments Sunday. 
The Saint Mary’s Athletic Advisory Committee (SMAAC), along with the Athletic Department, organized the event, which lasted from noon until 2 p.m. 
Children spent the afternoon play­ing games and participating in a vari­ety of other events. 
“We do it every year and its just to give back to the community and sup­port them and show that we care about them and that we’re getting involved,” Michelle Marshall, a sopho­more soccer player, said. 
Children were invited come partici­pate in crafts, have snacks and play games with their parents as well as members of the College’s Athletic Department and SMAAC. 
“One of the sports is putting on Bozo cups and then we have a ton of balloons that they’ve been popping left and right,” Marshall said. 
Each year the student athletes throw two parties for the children of Memorial Hospital, Marshall said. One is held in the spring and the other is in the fall. This year the spring party was in honor of Valentine’s Day and the fall party was 
Cabs 
continued from page 1 
small bills, he said. 
“We just need to make sure that there’s a system in place with the cab companies where it’s under­stood how much they’re going to pay,” he said. “I do give the stu­dent the benefit of the doubt and believe that if that’s happening there is some confusion about how much they needed to pay or they didn’t have correct change.” 
Clear said he noticed students asking how much the cab will cost before getting in. 
“I think that the students actual­ly have been pretty well working on that,” he said. “[They’ll say,] ‘are you a $2 cab and are you a $3 cab?’ And sometimes they choose to wait for a $2 cab,” Clear said. 
Both Schmidt and Clear said bolting from a cab without paying is illegal. 
“Running from the cab without paying, it is a crime,” Clear said. “It falls under the theft category.” 
Schmidt said his administration worked to improve student rela­tions with taxi companies. The Transpo initiative was in part meant to help reduce issues about paying for safe transportation, he said. 
Schmidt also said he would like to see taxis put a placard in their car that contains basic informa­tion. 
“You would put [it] on the back of a seat. It would have the num­ber of the cab company, an identi­fication number for the cab and the phone number to call if you have a complaint,” Schmidt said. “It would also have a standard fare.” 
Clear said Schmidt’s idea may become a reality in the near future. 
“The city of South Bend right now is in the process of rewriting the city ordinance and one of the items in the city ordinance is to to celebrate Halloween. 
Spring sport athletes hosted the party in the fall, she said, while fall sport athletes hosted the Valentine’s Day party. 
Marshall said the athletic depart­ment hosts the events to connect with the community to make a difference to area children. 
“I think it’s important just to put a smile on a kid’s face. I mean, they’ve been through so much more than we’ll ever imagine,” Marshall said. 
“If we can make their day a little bit better, then that’s what we can do. It’s fun too. You see kids come in here and they just get all excited about doing crafts and playing with other people.” 
Marshall said the events are enjoy­able experiences for everyone involved. 
“Everyone looks forward to it. Everyone gets excited about it. We (student athletes) come in as a group and we just show everybody that we can just come together and be a team,” Marshall said. “I think they enjoy it.” 
Marshall said the children are gen­erally appreciative of the athletes’ efforts. 
“I’ve had kids come up to and say 'Oh this is so much fun. Thanks for doing this,’” she said. “They leave here and they’re happy so that’s all that’s important.” 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
require such a placard to be in the back of the cabs,” Clear said. 
He said something students could do to improve relations with cab drivers is to accept the fair once they choose to get in the cab. 
“I suppose the one thing that maybe would help when they do choose to take, say a $3 cab, instead of a $2 cab, maybe they could refrain from complaining about it the whole ride,” he said. “They chose to get in the cab.” 
Vomiting in the cab is another issue cab drivers deal with, Clear said. 
“That’s probably the most com­mon. There are always the pukers. That’s not fun,” he said. “It’s some­thing that happens, but it would be nice if you feel like you’re going to puke, you would say something so that the cab driver can pull over.” 
There is a $50 clean up fee for vomiting in Blue Ribbon Taxi cabs, Clear said. If a student asks the driver to pull over and vomit out­side, he or she will not be charged, Clear said. 
Schmidt emphasized the impor­tance of both students and cab drivers taking the responsibility to be up front before students get in the cab. 
“Students aren’t just going to sprint out of there if we know how much we’re going to pay ahead of time, know that [the driver] has change and we know they are going to take us to our destina­tion,” he said. “There really shouldn’t be any problem paying.” 
Despite problems they have encountered in the past, Clear said drivers appreciate student busi­ness. 
“I know cab drivers as a whole appreciate Notre Dame because Notre Dame is a good percentage of our business, especially on the weekends,” he said. “We definitely appreciate your business and we appreciate being able to give you guys a safe ride to and from cam­pus.” 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
Notre Dame MBA students 
Diversity 
Evva Comans, Josh Miller, Hilarree Wong and Sanak continued from page 1 Mishra won the $2,000 prize. Friday’s events concluded with group of customers,” he said a keynote address by Kathy 
Perrella said the conference H a n n a n , has evolved from its inception N a t i o n a l twoyearsago. Managi ng 
“The conference is growing, Parnter for it’s starting to get recognized Diversity and and we have panelists and Corporate keynote speakers flying in from S o c i a l all over the country because Responsibility they want to be part of it,” he at KPMG. said. Other speak-
Some 150 students, faculty, ers included alumni and community mem-B e v e r l y bers registered for the event. M c D o n a l d , Besides a growth in attendance, Director of Perella said multiple corpora-H u m a n tions lent their support, includ-Resources at ing Ernst & Young, General Bosch, and Electric andIntel. P a t r i c k 
The conference kicked off with F i n n e r a n , same table and agreeing about something? There are some really neat interactions that you won’t find elsewhere,” he said. 
Junior Nicole Ruiz said the 
speakers’ personal reflections and real-life experiences com­
plimented her 
“The conference is 
academic work. 
growing, it’s starting to 
“One of things get recognized and we that I would like 
have panelists and to see in the 
future is more of 
keynote speakers 
these types of flying in from all over speakers going to 
the country because they classrooms to talk because 
want to be part of it.” 
some of things that they men-Patrick Perella tioned were so Director integral to what you’re learning.” 
MBA Career Development 
Looking to the future, freshman 
an MBA case competition and Notre Dame alum and CEO of Justin Asuncion, hoped to see awards presentation to the win-Sabreliner Corp. greater undergraduate involve­ning team in the Notre Dame Perrella said the assortment of ment. Stadium press box. Teams of industries at the conference pro-“You have all these MBA stu­four from Notre Dame and vided attendees a unique experi-dents, but you really want to hit Indiana University received a ence. this message early on,” he said. diversity case involving Pepsi on “Where else are you going to Jan. 28 and delivered their solu-get the Environmental Defense Contact Katlyn Smith at tion Friday. Fund and Exxon sitting at the ksmith33@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, February 8, 2010 
World & Nation 
Monday, February 8, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Ex-leader gets emergency surgery 
BUENOS AIRES, Argentina — Former Argentine president Nestor Kirchner under­went emergency surgery Sunday after show­ing symptoms of carotid artery disease, the presidency said. 
Kirchner “presented this morning symp­toms caused by disease in his right carotid artery that requires surgical treatment,” said Dr. Marcelo Ballesteros, deputy director of the Presidential Medical Unit. 
Kirchner’s wife, current President Cristina Fernandez, was in the hospital with him, according to local media. 
Skier survives Swiss avalanche 
EVOLENE, Switzerland — A skier was buried beneath an avalanche for 17 hours in the Swiss Alps before being pulled from the snow with only mild hypothermia, police said Sunday. 
The 21-year-old man appeared to have survived because he was trapped next to a pocket of air that allowed him to breathe even though he was unable to free himself from the crushing weight of the snow, police in the southern canton of Valais said. 
“I’ve never heard of such a case before,” said police spokesman Jean-Marie Bornet. “It’s already very difficult to survive more than 45 minutes beneath an avalanche.” 
The man, who had been skiing alone on an unmarked slope in the Evolene region about 50 miles east of Geneva, was reported missing by his family at 4.30 p.m. Saturday, police said. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Winning lottery ticket bought 
RALEIGH, N.C. — A winning Powerball tick­et worth more than $140 million was sold in western North Carolina. 
The North Carolina Education Lottery announced Sunday that the winning ticket from Saturday night’s Powerball drawing was sold in Asheville. 
Spokeswoman Pamela Walker says the tick­et was sold at a Wilco Hess convenience store. 
The winning numbers were 14, 22, 52, 54, 59, with the Powerball 4. The ticket was worth a $141.4 million annuity or $69.6 mil­lion in cash, minus federal and state with­holdings, if the winner elects to take the lump sum. 
It’s the third time North Carolina has had a winner in the Powerball drawing since the state established a lottery on May 30, 2006. 
Young family dies in house fire 
SMITHFIELD, R.I. — A mother is grieving after a house fire in Warwick, R.I., claimed the lives of five people, including her daugh­ter, granddaughter and future son-in-law. 
Lynn Gaulin said Sunday that her daughter, 21-year-old Amanda Villeneuve was a devoted mother to her 7-month-old granddaughter, Anabelle Janik. 
They were among five people killed Saturday when a fire burned through a Warwick home. The other victims were Villeneuve’s fiance, Dan Janik, 24-year-old Nicholas Jillson and 20-year-old Tayla Lackey. 
Gaulin says Villeneueve’s step-grandfather owned the house that caught fire. She says her daughter went there so she could have company while Gaulin and her boyfriend were in Miami for the Super Bowl. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Power woes plague South Shore 
EAST CHICAGO, Ind. — A power glitch has forced the South Shore commuter rail line to park its new double-decker cars during the busiest part of the line’s daily schedule. 
Officials with the line say the double-deck­er cars are being used only on off-peak trains until engineers can figure out the problem with their auxiliary power systems. 
District General Manager Gerald Hanas says six of the cars are being used Mondays through Fridays on off-peak trains between Chicago and South Bend. An additional eight cars are kept out of service. The cars cost $3.6 million. 
Evacuees return to muddy homes 
Residences in northern Los Angeles foothills damaged by storm-sparked mudslides 
Associated Press 
LA CANADA FLINTRIDGE, Calif. — Residents evacuated from foothill communities deluged by weekend mud­slides north of Los Angeles were allowed to return home Sunday as crews moved debris and cleared catch basins in anticipation of more rain later in the week. 
The final evacuation order was lifted for about 70 homes in the Paradise Valley area of La Canada Flintridge, said Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Deputy Guillermina Saldana. Only residents with valid identifi­cation were allowed back into the neighborhood that was choked with a thick layer of mud and debris dur­ing a pummeling rain early Saturday. 
Forty-three homes in the La Canada Flintridge area were damaged and 500 more evacuated Saturday after mud and water over­flowed basins and surged into streets, taking furniture, cars and concrete barriers with it. Nine houses were declared unsafe to enter. About 25 vehicles were dam­aged. 
“In my 20 years of fire service, this is the first time I’ve seen this much devasta­tion caused by a weather system,” Los Angeles County tains from federal land house where flowing mud be enough. Fire Battalion Chief Mike denuded by wildfires. left a mark on the wall at “They need to clean up Brown said while walking “The federal government least 5 feet above the this area as quickly as possi­past suburban homes with is not taking responsibility ground. ble from the mud. They need thigh-deep mud in their for the flow of mud that Schwarzenegger hugged a permits for a fourth dump-yards. came from its property,” tearful resident whose voice ing site, disposal site, which 
Los Angeles County public Olhassa said. “They say broke as she told him her have to come from the feder­works crews used bulldozers there’s nothing they can do entire first floor was inun-al government and the and other heavy machinery to keep it from flowing, then dated with at least 2 feet of state,” the governor said. to move boulders, scoop out they need to help clean it up. mud. Karineh Mangassarian “We all have to work togeth­catch basins and clear roads. They need to be responsible told the governor she want-er to help the people whose 
“That series of storms two property owners.” ed crews to start digging her homes were damaged.” weeks ago, we took about Olhasso said the city has house out immediately. The sun was shining 300,000 cubic yards of mate-received “no assurances” of “I want to save my house, Sunday on barren mountain-rial out of our debris help from federal authori-but by the time the city gets tops scarred by last sum-basins,” L.A. County ties. here it will be too late,” mer’s fires, but forecasters Department of Public Works “This is potentially a threat Mangassarian said outside say more rain could arrive spokesman Bob Spencer for the next three to five her home, where mud by Tuesday. said. “This is going to be years, which is how long reached up to the mailbox. Some residents com-about the same.” they say it could be before One small rose bush poked plained they were not told to 
The mayor of La Canada the vegetation grows back,” out with a couple of pink get out until the brunt of the Flintridge, Laura Olhasso, she said. blooms that withstood the damage was done — unlike said Sunday the U.S. Forest Gov. Arnold rain. during heavy rains in Service should pay to help Schwarzenegger toured the Schwarzenegger said the January when officials remove the mud and debris area Sunday, stopping to talk three county sites set aside repeatedly warned foothill that came down the moun-to reporters in front of a for mud disposal might not communities to be on alert. 

Authorities investigate fatal plane crash 
causing the “immediate disintegration mile to the scene. “You could see a big 
Associated Press 
and explosion of both airplanes,” Rodi smokestack coming out from the 
BOULDER, Colo. — Investigators plan said. wreckage, and dozens of people run-to talk to other pilots to determine The pilot of the glider was able to cut ning toward the scene hoping to rescue whether they heard any communica-loose just before the collision and fly to someone. As you got closer, you could tions between two small planes just safety. actually smell the fumes from the jet before an in-flight collision in Colorado Young Kim said he and his girlfriend fuel,” Kim said. killed all three people on board both were walking out of her condo “I was just hoping maybe somebody planes. Saturday when they heard a loud survived,” he said. 
With no black box data, investigators boom. Several witnesses have said they saw are relying heavily on video, photos “We looked up in the sky. We saw a people plunging from the planes, but and witnesses’ testimony to determine glider and right next to it what looked Rodi said it’s hard to tell whether they what led to the fiery crash Saturday, like a big black ball of fire,” he said. “It saw people or airplane parts falling. National Transportation Safety Board looked at first like fireworks coming An amateur video shot at the scene investigator Jennifer Rodi said Sunday. out of it.” showed a plane on fire, floating to the 
The crash occurred about 1:30 p.m. His girlfriend, Barb Maiberger, said, ground trailing thick, black smoke and Saturday near the Boulder Municipal “You’re going, ‘This can’t be real.’ But a parachute. Sheriff’s officials said the Airport when a southbound Cirrus it was real, and I knew something was parachute was designed to deploy if a SR20 collided with a westbound Piper wrong.” plane was disabled and was attached Pawnee that was towing the glider, Kim started running about a half-to the plane’s wreckage, not a person. 

page 6  The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS  Monday, February 8, 2010  
McKillen  the Student Union Board approached him at the per­formance about playing at  be my resume for the future,” McKillen said. “It might be irrational, and there’s a lot of  Haiti  community has, like delivering babies and hypertension.” Pennino said his team is lucky to  
continued from page 1  AcoustiCafe, and he took advantage of the offer, which  failure possible, but I’m just doing what I love and going  continued from page 1  have the resources in Haiti already set in place by Notre Dame’s Haiti  
start in eighth grade  as  the  opened  up  performance  for it musically.”  nates groups of doctors to go down  Program.  
front  man  of  a  heavy metal  opportunities all over campus.  McKillen hopes to travel to  to Haiti. InterVol, Pennino said,  “We’re very fortunate that Notre  
cover  band with friends. He  “From then on out, I’ve just  famously musical cities like  recently sponsored ’09 graduate  Dame  residence  was  there,”  
was inspired, however, to take  played everywhere,” McKillen  Nashville and Austin, and he  Joey Leary to work with patients  Pennino said, adding it provided  
up the acoustic guitar by the  said. “AcoustiCafe has been  is contemplating going abroad  suffering from lymphatic filariasis  physicians a place to stay.  
Dave Matthews Band, and  great because it’s a reason to  as well.  in Haiti.  Notre Dame’s Haiti contacts, he  
after a year of rigorous prac­ keep writing and trying new  “Going  to  England  or  Pennino, along with fellow alum- said, were an additional asset to  
tice, McKillen had mastered  things every week.”  Ireland  might  be  a  cool  ni physicians Kevin Olehnik, ’78,  their efforts.  
playing guitar and singing at  McKillen later performed at  avenue to take since I’m obvi­ and Dan Towle, ’77, initiated efforts  “Without [Haitian director] Jean  
the same time.  the first Best of AcoustiCafe  ously  not  from  there,”  through InterVol to involve other  Mark Brisseau, it would have been  
He eventually abandoned  concert  at  the  Clarke  McKillen said. “I’ll just contin­ alumni doctors and their associates  very difficult,” he said.  
metal and  played with  an  Memorial  Fountain,  also  ue  playing what I play and  in providing medical services to vic- Pennino said Brisseau has played  
acoustic  band  throughout  known as Stonehenge, in April  hopefully  someone  will hear  tims.  an integral role in coordinating  
high school. He had to adjust  of  his  freshman  year.  He  me at the right time.”  Pennino returned from Haiti  food and medical delivery efforts to  
his musical approach, howev­ became  so  involved  in  In the meantime, McKillen  Saturday after a two-week trip  the devastated region.  
er, upon arriving at Notre  AcoustiCafe  that  he  per-continues to write original  working in a makeshift hospital,  Bollman said efforts of Pennino  
Dame.  formed at every week of the  songs and arrange covers of  which Pennino and his friends  and other doctors have provided an  
“Once I  came  here, it  was  event in one semester of his  popular songs for his per- affectionately  dubbed  “The  example to be followed for further  
different because I hadn’t had  junior year.  formances. Most recently, he  Léogâne Shock Trauma Hospital,”  relief.  
experience with playing solo  In the spring of his junior  arranged a cover of Ke$ha’s  in a nursing school that survived  “[Dr. Pennino] has been absolute- 
or  with  songwriting,”  year, he performed at local  “TiK ToK” the day before the  earthquake.  ly unbelievable in organizing teams  
McKillen  said.  “My  early  bars like CJ’s. He also played  Hope for Haiti concert.  Pennino said after the earth- and transportation,” she said. “He  
songs were pretty elementary,  post-game shows after every  Although he enjoys covering  quake hit, the entire mission of the  is an immensely selfless person  
so  I  started  writing  more  2009 home football game,  other artists’ music, especially  Notre Dame Haiti Program as well  who has worked nonstop to make  
songs and put more thought  providing  him  more  local  his arrangement of MGMT’s  as its affiliate NGOs changed.  this happen.”  
behind the structure and the  exposure.  “Kids” and The Fray’s “You  “When the quake hit, what we  Both Pennino and Bollman  
lyrics.”  McKillen has played numer- Found  Me,”  McKillen’s  did was change surgical mission  emphasize the need for involve- 
During his freshman year,  ous shows at Legends, includ­ favorite part of music and  into a disaster relief mission,”  ment throughout the entire Notre  
McKillen performed at house  ing one last Thursday. He  performing is songwriting.  Pennino said. “We put together an  Dame community.  
parties hosted by his sister,  additionally opened for Eric  “It’s a rush to play some- emergency response.”  “What Haiti needs is solidarity,”  
then a senior, and her friends.  Hutchinson and Matisyahu at  thing you’ve written,  and  Part of the response effort includ- Brennan said. “Values I learned at  
Over time, he learned to play  this year’s B1 Block Party. He  when other people hear it the  ed delivery of more than 8,000  Notre Dame, like solidarity and the  
a  wider  variety  of  songs,  also  performed  at  the  rush is as much for them as it  pounds of donated food and med- Catholic social teaching, call me  
which enabled him to play at  Harmonia  concert  in  is for me,” McKillen said.  ical supplies as well as an outpour- down [to Haiti].”  
his first on-campus perform- Washington Hall last fall and  Although McKillen will leave  ing of medical services.  Bollman said she feels a strong  
ance at the inaugural Aidan  at last week’s Hope for Haiti  Notre Dame with a finance  Since the earthquake, Pennino  emotional connection with the  
Project, a blanket-making  benefit concert.  degree, he hopes to continue  said his team has performed more  country where she spent a summer  
drive, in 2006.  All of these performance  his musical career after grad- than 180 surgeries and treats  in college and where she will  
“I lived in Knott, which was  opportunities have led to the  uation.  between 100 and 300 patients  return to offer medical services.  
where  Aidan  [Fitzgerald]  release of McKillen’s forth­ “I want to do music because  daily.  “It would be hard for me to con- 
lived, and they were sponsor- coming album, and they have  there’s nothing like playing  Surgeons volunteering in the  tinue my medical studies right now  
ing the event, so they asked  ultimately inspired him to  your own songs in front of  country, however, still have much  because my heart is totally in  
me to play,” McKillen said.  pursue music as a career,  people,” McKillen said. “It’s  work ahead of them, he said.  Haiti,” she said. “I still have a lot of  
“We made a huge list of all  despite the increasing difficul­ when I feel most alive.”  “We have not even scratched the  friends down there.”  
the songs I was capable of  ty of achieving success in the  surface of the injuries,” Pennino  
playing and just went with it.”  industry.  Contact Kristen Durbin at  said. “We will have to address all  Contact Katie Peralta at  
McKillen said a member of  “Hopefully this album will  kdurbin@nd.edu  the other healthcare needs that a  kperalta@nd.edu  


The Observer 
Business 

Monday, February 8, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Gas prices drop across nation 
CAMARILLO, Calif. — The average price of regular gasoline in the United States fell 5.76 cents over a two-week period to $2.67. 
That’s according to the national Lundberg Survey of fuel prices released Sunday. 
Analyst Trilby Lundberg says the average price for a gallon of mid-grade was $2.80. Premium was at $2.91. 
Cheyenne, Wyo., had the lowest average price among cities surveyed at $2.38 a gallon for regular. Honolulu was the highest at $3.32. 
In California, a gallon of regular cost an average of $2.94. 
Fresno had the state’s least expensive gas at $2.86 a gallon. San Francisco remained the steepest at $2.97. 
New plane to make first flight 
SEATTLE — Boeing Co.’s giant 747-8 freighter should make its first flight Monday after performing well on taxi tests and reaching a top speed of about 103.5 mph, the company said. 
At 250 feet long, the plane is the largest Boeing has ever built and about 18 feet longer than the existing 747-400 jumbo jet. The com­pany conducted taxi tests on the freighter Saturday at Paine Field in Everett, north of Seattle. 
“Based on early indications, the airplane is ready to fly,” said Mo Yahyavi, the 747 pro­gram’s vice president and general manager. 
Boeing also is developing a passenger version of the plane. It lists 76 orders for the freighter and 32 for the 747-8 passenger jet, with the vast majority from international customers. 
The company says the jets will be much qui­eter, more fuel efficient and have lower emis­sions than current 747-400 models. 
Boeing launched the freighter program on Nov. 14, 2005, with firm orders for 10 planes from Cargolux of Luxembourg and eight from Nippon Cargo Airlines of Japan. The jet has a list price of more than $301 million, though air­lines commonly negotiate discounts. 
Boeing’s European rival Airbus had planned a freighter version of the Airbus A380, the world’s largest passenger jet. However, that program was put on hold in 2005 after FedEx Corp. and UPS Inc. canceled their orders, leaving Airbus with an empty order book for the cargo plane. 
JAPAN 
Toyota to propose plans for Prius 
World’s largest automaker must repair its tarnished reputation, hybrid’s brakes 
Associated Press 
TOKYO — Toyota said Sunday that it will soon announce plans to deal with braking problems in its prized Prius hybrid amid reports it has decided to issue a recall for the vehicle in Japan, a possible new embarrassment for the world’s biggest automaker. 
Toyota Motor Corp. has already had to recall more than 7 million other cars in the U.S., Europe and China over a sticky accelerator and floor mats that can get caught in the gas pedal. Those problems and criti­cism of Toyota’s response to them have sullied the stel­lar reputation for quality long enjoyed by one of Japan’s corporate icons. 
Separately, the company has told dealers in the United States it is preparing to repair the brakes on thousands of Prius vehicles there, according to an e­mail sent by a company executive. It was unclear whether Toyota planned a formal U.S. recall. 
“We will make an announcement soon on the action we plan to take,” spokeswoman Ririko Takeuchi said, commenting on media reports Sunday that the company has decided to issue a Japan recall. Takeuchi did not confirm those reports. 
The Prius is the world’s top-selling gas-electric hybrid and its fuel efficien­cy has drawn intense inter­est amid concerns about global warming and dependence on fossil fuels. 
Toyota decided Saturday on a recall in Japan cover­ing its latest Prius model and has notified domestic dealers, Japan’s largest newspaper, the Yomiuri, reported without naming sources. It said Toyota would announce the move early in the coming week after consulting with the Japanese government. Japan’s Kyodo News agency and TV Asahi car­ried similar reports. Kyodo said Toyota had started notifying dealers and that at least 170,000 vehicles in Japan would be subject to the recall. 

Phone calls to the section at Japan’s transport min­istry dealing with recalls went unanswered Sunday. None of about 10 Toyota dealers in Tokyo and the western Japanese city of Osaka said they had received any notification. Three dealers in the U.S. said the same thing on Sunday. 
Prius drivers in Japan and the U.S. have com­plained of a short delay before the antilock brakes kick in — a flaw Toyota says can be fixed with a software programming change. The brakes will work if the driver keeps pushing the pedal. 
The brake problem affects about 270,000 Priuses that were sold in the U.S. and Japan starting last May. The company says it has already fixed vehicles that went on sale since last month. 
Bob Carter, a Toyota group vice president, sent an e-mail message Friday night to U.S. dealers saying the automaker is working on a Prius repair plan and will disclose more details early this week. At least 100 drivers of Prius cars in the U.S. have complained to the government that their brakes seemed to fail momentarily when they were driving on bumpy roads. The government says the problem is sus­pected in four crashes and two minor injuries. 
Public awareness of the problem “has prompted considerable customer con­cern, speculation, and media attention due to the significance of the Prius image,” Carter said in the e-mail. “We want to assure our dealers that we are moving rapidly to provide a solution for your existing customers.” 
Toyota on Sunday morn­ing began airing spots on 
U.S. television saying that the company is “working around the clock” to build the highest-quality vehicles and to restore the faith of its customers. 
“In recent days, our com­pany hasn’t been living up to the standards that you’ve come to expect from us,” an unidentified announcer said in a voiceover. 
Utah company aims to store energy in air 
Associated Press 
SALT LAKE CITY — A Utah compa­ny plans to dig a series of underground caverns that it hopes to one day fill with compressed air, releasing it to generate electricity by turning a tur­bine and solving one of the most vexing problems facing the clean-energy industry — how to store power. 
Under a barren patch of Utah desert, a private-equity group is bankrolling the project to hollow out a series of energy-storage vaults from a massive salt deposit a mile underground. It promises to make a perfect repository for storing energy and, in effect, creat­ing a giant subterranean battery. 
Energy storage is catching on as a way to make wind and solar power more useful. 
Without energy storage, the output of solar and wind power is so erratic — the wind doesn’t always blow; cloud cover can shut down solar cells — that utilities can take only so much of it, said Jim Ferland, senior vice president for operations for PNM Resources, the New Mexico utility. 
If renewable power makes up too big a part of a utility’s energy mix, it can make the delicate act of balancing loads on a power grid difficult. The lack of storage is one of the things holding back clean energy, say scien­tists for Sandia National Laboratories’ energy systems group in Albuquerque, N.M. 
“Storage is the key here,” said Charlie Hanley, manager of Sandia’s photovoltaic and grid integration group. “We have to find a way to over­come intermittent swings from cloud cover.” 
The only commercial-scale, com­pressed air power plants are in McIntosh, Ala., and Bremen, Germany. Other projects are under development in Norton, Ohio, and Ankeny, Iowa. 
Initially, because of market needs, Salt Lake City-based Magnum Energy LLC will store natural gas for Rocky Mountain producers, taking it from a nearby interstate pipeline, in an “ener­gy hub” near Delta, Utah. It hopes to start dissolving the first cavern within a year. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 8 Monday, February 8, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
Analyzing the migration of coconuts 
What is the airspeed velocity of an unladen swallow? 
Good question. This question baffled nobles in the European days of yore, when it both began and ended the quest of a famous king. 
Yet today, the same query does not make or break alliances with prospective Knights of Camelot; this persnickety inquiry now has answers. A lot of Jackie them. 

Mirandola 
If you Google 
Mullen 
“What is the air­speed velocity of an Freckled unladen swallow,” Thoughts the search engine not only auto-completes the question for you but also provides you with more than 42,000 answers. You can read kinematical analyses of swallow flights, respond to forums to share personal opinions on whether coconuts actually migrate and read a treatise dissecting how Monty Python’s eternal question influences our views of impossible but tempting trivialities. 
But now for the perhaps the more vexing question of the two we have thus far posed: What is the point? 
The Internet changed the way we see information. Information storage once stood secluded in exclusive and territo­rial libraries or in intricate detailing in book margins. We now store informa­tion in huge electronic servers or on the Internet, in open forums that anyone can rip off, copy or add to. For our gen­eration, information-gathering is still luring and promising, but in a different, more open sense. 
Information is now cheap. Old way to collect knowledge meant information hoarding, which kicked off in ancient times. If one small group knew some­thing their peers did not, the wiser held a much sturdier chance of survival. This initially instinctive process trans­formed into the tradition of hoarding of culture and abstract ideas, which cul­minated in the still-practiced university system we all so credulously patron. 
Knowing more information renders one privy to all sorts of benefits. Understanding interpretations of reli­gious literature entitles one to accord in high circles that determine the morals and guidelines of a society. The ability to understand processes of organisms on microscopic levels opened up a whole new concept of science and humanity that affects how we treat dis­ease (or can think of “disease” at all), eat food and have the vocabulary to talk about things like “hygiene” or “nutrients.” And understanding in the sense of being acquainted with people and emotions creates ties and bonds that strengthen power and prestige via circles of confident information. 
Advantages to possessing information number as infinitely as information itself (crossing gorges of eternal peril, even), but the real question is, what happens in a society where information freely and instantaneously flows? Nowadays, even university scholars can find simple answers quicker in Wikipedia than they ever could while paging through books. 
The Internet provides information cheaply and easily to a revolutionary degree, but it still does not negate the power or value of social circles of pri­vatized information. I sometimes won­der if academia will become obsolete after the Internet has been around long enough. If everyone can access any information whenever they like, it seems that the professional data stor­age units called “professors” may someday become archaic. But in the next era, data processing and not data storage will prove the most valuable of trades. When everyone has access to any book they like online within sec­onds, we will value not the information, but those who can peruse and make sense of the tidal waves of data in a cogent and compelling manner. 
As students who never knew research in a non-Internet era, children of the late eighties and nineties wield distinct research advantages in our capability to use the tools of the Internet efficient­ly. However, our reliance on cyber-info also presents problems: 
We need to rethink our mindset. The Internet has become a crutch for our intellectual development. Because details on basically anything are searchable and downloadable on the Internet — a kind of one-stop shopping for the curious customer — actually heading to a library or opening up a book on a subject often seems outdated and, frankly, unnecessary. 
But gathering data on the Internet won’t help us think. Trivial knowledge that the Internet enables even the least educated of us to have is democratic and good, but it is no substitution for critical intellectual development. Academia differs from the Internet in that it stores data in people instead of machines. Professors and researchers spend their lives dissecting particular subjects. Their condensed knowledge of specific issues is more thorough than any (reasonably-lengthed) Internet source — including ones they wrote. When you talk to a person you can dis­cuss, reason back and forth, instead of simply grabbing information and attempting to apply it to unrelated situ­ations. In reading books and discussing dissertations, we still enter a level of data analyses that the two-dimensional Internet fails to provide. 
Asking ridiculous questions can cer­tainly still be positive. Could a five-ounce bird carry a one-pound coconut? Perhaps. But, instead of Googling the query on the Internet, next time maybe you can ask a physics professor or a classmate. Chances are that the answer you’ll get will let you chip in, as well. After all, even King Arthur couldn’t go it alone. 
Jackie Mirandola Mullen is a senior History and German major. She is look­ing forward to her turn acting as a sort of executive officer of the week. You can reach her at jmirando@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


News Viewpoint 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Katie Peralta Lianna OBSERVER POLL Amanda Gray Brauweiler 
Which of these is the best Kristen Durbin Sports student government platform idea? 

Graphics Laura Myers 
“Who are you to condemn 

Mary Cecilia Chris Masoud Treehouse 
another’s sin? He who condemns sin 

Mitsch Kevin Baldwin “Perspectives” series 
becomes part of it, espouses it.” 

Scene Follett textbook rental 
Georges Bernanos 

Alex Kilpatrick Other 
French author 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Monday, February 8, 2010 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Need for diversity in the arts 
When “Ragtime” was chosen as one of PEMCo’s produc­tions in 2007, I cringed at the thought of students picking a play with inflamed racial language and stereotypical roles during Black History Month, but remained faithful that les­sons would be learned. 
My concerns returned with a vengeance this year when I heard frustrations from African American students that PEMCo had decided to put on “Parade” this month. I tried to keep an open mind until I asked people what the play was about and heard, “The segregated South ... a black man is on trial for murder ... they use the N-word.” 
Not again. 

A friend explained to me that the problem was as much the play choice as the need to fill a quota. “I asked if I could audition for roles written for white women,” she said. “They said they wanted to be true to the script ... which means no.” 
To me, “Parade” represents the insistence at Notre Dame to choose plays that portray diverse people in negative light and/or subordinate roles. I am not saying that racially sensitive plays can never be chosen. What I am saying is that I do not understand why the leaders of PEMCo are shocked at the lack of diversity in their group and sur­prised that African Americans are not jumping for joy to play the role of the slave, the maid, the poor folk or the murderer. 
Should students be allowed to play a role not written for a person of their ethnicity? 
Is type casting really necessary at the college level? 
Will theatre ever be more diverse if minorities are pigeonholed into stereotypical roles? 
How do we get directors on this campus to choose more ethnically diverse plays? 
These concerns led to a series of discussions with the directors of PEMCo and Toby Blake of Multicultural Student Programs and Services. We organized a workshop, Casting: Breaking the Mold, to talk about these issues and encourage more underclassmen to participate in the arts. Please join us on Feb. 15 at 6 p.m. in Debartolo 101. 
I have faith that the Notre Dame theatre community can do better and hopefully, after this workshop, they will. 
Erdina Francillon 
senior 
Ryan Hall 
Feb. 5 

Can we be done with this now? 
I can not fully express how frustrated I am that The Observer Viewpoint has been completely overrun by the Great Non-discrimination Clause yet again. Can we just be done with it now? Please? This is worse than the annual Vagina Monologues Mud-Sling Fest. As much as I have love for my homosexual friends and neighbors, there’s a hard truth that we all must face: The University isn’t going to change its policy just because people complain about it. If you haven’t noticed, that isn’t how Notre Dame policy usually works. (Five-dollar footlongs? Still waiting on that...) My advice to people affected by this policy is simple: Encourage students to accept homosexuals as people completely equal to them, but stop trying to change the policy for now. All it’s doing is fomenting conflict. I also advise anyone who wishes to change the policy to read the Papal encyclical “God is Love.” You will see that as a Catholic school, Notre Dame has no obligation and really can’t change its policy if it wants to remain in full unity with Catholic doctrine. If you are gay and you choose to come to a Catholic school, be prepared that the school will have Catholic ideology. I do not believe that efforts to “de-Catholicize” or shift the doctrinal compass of this University to fit a view of homosexuali­ty that conflicts with “God is Love” will be very suc­cessful. Notre Dame does not sell condoms on campus, it does not allow pre-marital sex among students and it refuses to formally condone homosexuality, all because it is holding fast to its Catholic nature. Let’s try to have mutual respect here — respect and compassion for the students and faculty who are homosexuals, and just as much respect for the Catholic faith from which Notre Dame derives its policies. 
Kelsey Robertson 
senior 
off campus 
Feb. 5 
Abortion and the unjustness of opening the dialogue 
I just received the second e-mail for the annual campaign. I love Notre Dame; the University saved my life. It moved me from a childhood of poverty to a rich life. Nevertheless, the campaign infuriates me. 
Rather than continually seeking funds, Notre Dame should turn to seeking its bases in the Catholic faith. With the endowment at record levels, Fr. Jenkins and the staff should seek the love and forgiveness of God. The invitation to President Obama for graduation ceremonies was ill-conceived as a means to open a dialogue. Abortion is a weapon of Satan, aimed at weakening mankind. Fifty million deaths in America and many more elsewhere in the world deprive us of the warriors God provides. Dialogue with Satan is not a desirable approach. 
I recall with great fondness masses in Holy Cross Hall, walking in the cemetery, praying at the grotto, visiting the crypt of the Basilica and simply witness­ing God’s Church in action. That is Notre Dame. Not a politically-driven, money-seeking institution that flatters (one) man’s evil thoughts and acts with prestigious awards and forums to discuss the destruction of mankind. 
A public apology and admission of error is needed from Fr. Jenkins. 
Samuel D. Fink 
alumnus Class of 1981 Feb. 7 
No Irish need apply 
In the mid-19th century, an infamous sign could be seen in American cities: “No Irish Need Apply.” It was one manifestation of hibernophobia or anti-Irish sentiment. In a predominantly English Protestant country, the Irish Catholics were looked down upon for their religion, culture and econom­ic status. This bigotry against Catholics and the Irish continues today. Notre Dame is both Irish and Catholic. However, the academic community has seen to it that Notre Dame can not fully participate unless it gives up its strong Catholic Cultural roots. There was a time when Notre Dame wasn’t even on the radar, but the football team changed that. Now even the football team is looked down upon. 
Notre Dame is trying to be thought of as a great American research institution. One of the ways to do this is to join the AAU, the Association of American Universities, which is an organization for just such universities. Looking at the list how­ever, one notices that it is devoid of Catholic uni­versities. Notre Dame isn’t a member of this asso­ciation, and one wonders why, with it’s renown as the top Catholic American university. Could it be that hibernophobia is striking again and the big­otry of atheist academia is telling Notre Dame that until it parts itself from its Catholic Identity, “No Irish Need Apply?” 
Nathaniel Gotcher 
freshman Morrissey Manor Feb. 7 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 
Scene 

page 10 Monday, February 8, 2010 


A taste of Chicago in Mishawaka 
S e a r c h i n g split a pizza and don’t break the bank By MARY CLAIRE for some deli-which is always a positive scenario for O’DONNELL cious deep poor college students. It will never be Scene Writer dish pizza but a deal like CiCi’s, but the bette 
don ’t have quality pizza is worth the extra the ways and means of getting to Chicago? money. It’s a great treat after a Love Italian food but are tired of the pasta tough test, for a birthday cel selection at the dining halls? bration or just as a chance t 
Look no further than the new Gino’s East eat somewhere that is not Restaurant in Heritage Square, Mishawaka. North or South Dining Located about 10 minutes from campus, it is Hall. a perfect way to satisfy an overwhelming Gino’s East is open 11 craving for the delicious Chicago-style food a.m. to 11 p.m. Monday without the inconvenience of traveling to through Thursday, 11 the city. a.m. to midnight 
The new restaurant in Mishawaka has an Friday and Saturday, arcade, an outdoor patio and an exact repli-and 11 a.m. to 10 ca of the bar from the Chicago restaurant. p.m. Sunday. They Amiable, outgoing, knowledgeable waiters offer call -in and and waitresses help make the dining experi-carry-out service ence an enjoyable one. They are ready with and delivery. You jokes and recommendations, providing you can order the with prompt service and great attitudes. famous deep ­
Pictures of celebrities, Chicago and other dish pizzas and icons dot the brightly painted walls. The pick them up atmosphere and ambience are inviting and half cooked in warm. Combine the friendly décor with the order to make excellent service and delicious food, and the and serve them restaurant is one well worth return trips. at your leisure 
The food also does not disappoint. Though at home or in the pizzas take about 30 to 45 minutes to your dorm. make, the perfection and mouth-watering For special deliciousness is well worth the wait. Gino’s events, Gino ’s offers a variety of deep-dish pizzas, from offers a catering Cheese to Four Cheese, Pepperoni to Meaty menu or party Legend. They also have a vegetarian option. packages. At the The two-inch thick pies, loaded with flavor-r e s t a u r a n t , ful tomato sauce and the toppings of your though, the staff is choice, are rich and will satiate even the very accommodat­most ravenous appetites of growing teenage ing for larger par-boys. ties. 
For those who do not like Chicago-style or So this weekend who do like to wait, don’t fret. Gino’s also grab some friends, has an assortment of thin crust pies, pastas maybe a Valentine and sandwiches. Though not what they are missing his or her tra­famous for, the other entrees are just as ditional Chicago fare, well made and delectable. A variety of and enjoy an appetizing appetizers are also available to whet the meal off campus in good appetites of those who choose to wait for company. the renowned deep-dish pizzas. 
Luckily, Gino’s is also an affordable place Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell to find a good slice. Bring a few friends, at modonne5@nd.edu 
An ode to Hot Box pizza: A three part tale 
could mean my life, Were the only thin 
By MATT BROWN 
keeping me from meeti 
Scene Writer 
I cried out “alas! ” and my fate, threw up my fists The pizza was coming 

1. Parietals were nigh What I would do for good from barely across town. And my Hunger was high lobster bisque. Lost and alone I proceed-With its fleet footed driv­
ed to cry, 2. In strode a stranger ers patrolling the streets, with hope on his heels, Hot Box Pizza delivers a Traversing the tundra A twinkle in his eye, and pie covered with meat. back to my dorm, a phone in his fist, Hankering for a pizza but His voice brought clarity, I opened the box and oh, denied by the swarm a light in the mist, what a smell, Of post-party patrons and He knew what to do for I saw the one pizza that Friday night norm. late night meals could save me from hell, Looking at heaven, not Like fallen Prometheus He spoke of a place, deli-believing my luck, chained to a rock, cious and cheap, If this were a woman Hunger tore my chest, my The sultan of fast food, surely we ’d … go out to pantry not stocked, The best of the brood, dinner. Growing and building He typed in their number watching the clock beep after beep, 3. The crust firm yet sup­ple under my touch, 
As it counted the minutes Within a matter of Feeling its weight I hoped of hunger and strife, moments the info was I hadn’t bitten off too much, Stomach growling and down, The pizza called to me 
stabbing as if with a knife, A pizza, a price, a 10 -like a small child, If I didn ’t act soon this minute wait, “Eat me, please eat me,” 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scene 

Monday, February 8, 2010 page 11 

It’s not delivery … it’s dining hall! 
By JESS SHAFFER 
Scene Editor 
While we may all fre­quently experience a hankering for the col­legiate population’s favorite food group, not all of us can afford to constantly have delivery brought to us from 
our favorite off-cam­pus pi zza joint. Al so, order­ing in pizza every night could quick­ly earn you the wrong type of reputa ­tion among your hall 
mates. 
So if 
you’d rather 
be social or 
just economi­
cal, make your 
way to your 
dining hall of 
hoice (though 
obviously North is 
preferential in this 
situation). With 
these dining hall 
ecipes, you are sure to 
satisfied by your “do it yourself” culinary con­coction. 
Breakfast Pizza 
This is a great way to start he morning when breakfast offerings just aren’t doing it for you. It’s a sweet treat that can also end your day on a happy note. Either way, a love of peanut butter is necessary. 
For this recipe, grab a bowl from near the cereal. Put a half a scoop of your favorite granola into the bowl. Next, make your way to peanut but­ter and add a good healthy glob of peanut butter to the bowl. If peanut butter is avail­able at the ice cream topping station, this is a preferable option to the regular offerings, because it’s smoother and slightly more liquid. Also from the ice cream topping bar, stir in several spoonfuls of choco­late chips. Mix all these ingre­dients thoroughly by stirring with a fork. Keep this bowl on your tray for now. 
Then grab a banana and slice half into thin slivers. Place these on a small plate. 
Proceed to the “Make Your Own Pizza” line. Choose the crust of your choice. When they ask what kind of sauce, ask them to place on your peanut butter mixture on the crust and spread it around. For toppings, hand over the sliced banana. Now just wait a few minutes for this lovely, hot sweet treat. To finish perfectly, add a light drizzle of honey over the top. 
Chicken Alfredo Pizza 
If you’re not in the mood for noodles, but can’t deny your love for Italian food, then kill two birds with one stone by creating this delightful, rich pizza. 
Head over to the Lighter Side and get two or three spoonfuls of peas. Next go over to the Pizza line. Choose your preferred crust; then ask for a very light tomatoes sauce. 
Similarly, ask for light moz­zarella cheese. For meat, request chicken. As for addi­tional toppings, order your favorite veggies and also request for them to add the peas you got earlier. When your pizza comes out of the oven, take it directly over to the pasta line and drizzle alfredo sauce over the top. Now, you have a delicious creamy variation on an Italian favorite! 
Almost Bruschetta Pizza 
This is a relatively healthy pizza that is light and satisfy­ing, though maybe not a meal in itself. 
After picking white or wheat crust, request olive oil for your sauce. In addition to the olive oil, request that a healthy amount of diced tomatoes (from the additional toppings section) are substituted for sauce. Next, order a topping of light mozzarella cheese. After the pizza has cooked, proceed to the salad bar and sprinkle your pizza with balsamic vine­gar. Also, add garlic and herbs to your liking; they are avail­able (usually) above the microwaves. 
Buffalo Chicken Pizza 
Want something spicy and tangy? Then this is for you! 
Order a chicken pizza, with crust, sauce and cheese to your like. A combo of white crust, pizza sauce and moz­zarella is recommended but not necessary. Add a selection of vegetables, particularly onions and peppers. Once the pizza has been baked, head over to the salad bar and add either blue cheese crumbles or blue cheese dressing, depend­ing on your preferred texture. The hot pizza will melt in the blue cheese. Finally, drizzle Frank’s Hot Sauce over the top, and you just gave your pizza wings. Eat and enjoy! 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffe1@nd.edu 
Sbarro’s straight out of the oven 

By MAIJA GUSTIN ssociate Scene ditor 
It ’s 2 a.m. on a 
Saturday night. 
arietals have just 
ended your evening, the 
dorm parties are over and you want nothing more than some delicious, greasy sus­tenance. LaFortune offers a plethora of foods for your choosing. But what is the best option? Sbarro, of course. That puffy crust! Those pools of grease! The satisfying warmth that spreads through your body after finishing a large slice of Sbarro! Sheer joy. 
But, believe it or not, there might actually be something better than merely walking into that basement alcove of heavenly cheese, crust and sauce. No, not a short line, although that is pretty great. The answer to this riddle is, of course, fresh Sbarro pizza, straight out of the oven. Bliss. 
Unfortunately, one can never know when exactly that fresh pie will be surfac­ing from the Sbarro ovens. Short of calling ahead, your fate is left to mere chance. Will it be warm and gooey 
or merely stale? Oh, how the tough questions of life challenge us so! And woe is the poor soul who is stuck with that last piece of pizza, the slice that has spent hours sitting on the Sbarro counter, waiting for its unlucky victim. 
But, friends, there is an answer. A guaranteed method that always finds its clever user with a fresh slice of Sbarro in hand. The solution? Bear in mind, this works best for large groups, or severely famished indi­viduals. To ensure yourself the freshest slices of pizza, do not stand in line for hours with friends, each waiting to buy their own personal slice of pizza. Be economical. Order an entire pizza. For a mere $11.99 (of Flex Points, no less), one can get an entire, guaran­teed fresh out of the oven Sbarro pizza. This pizza can be cut into six, eight, 10 or even 12 slices, ready to be shared, steaming hot, with friends and assorted revel­ers. The possibilities are endless, and you shall never again be faced with the nau­seating prospect of eating flat and stale pizza. 
What ’s more, by calling ahead, one has to wait but 10 minutes to have that warm pizza in their hands. It ’s something a bit like instant gratification. Quarter dogs are great, but for the discerning palette, nothing will ever surpass fresh Sbarro in excellence. So do yourselves a favor. This weekend, when feeling a little adventurous after a night on the quad, give your taste buds the thrill they deserve. Treat them to the guaranteed deliciousness of warm, gooey, fresh Sbarro. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Monday, February 8, 2010 
NFL 

Rice, Smith lead seven entrants into Hall of Fame 
Associated Press 
FORT LAUDERDALE, Fla. — Here’s how you stop Jerry Rice and Emmitt Smith: Put them in the Hall of Fame and watch them break down and cry. 
The men who tore apart NFL defenses couldn’t handle the emotions Saturday when they were elected to the shrine along with five others. 
“They told me ‘Don’t cry,’“ Rice said, his eyes wet with tears. “It meant the world to me, just like winning a Super Bowl. On draft day, I didn’t take that for granted. I didn’t take this for granted.” 
He could have. 
A nominee needs 80 percent approval from the 44 media members who vote and Rice and Smith were slam-dunks in their first year of eligibility. Vote totals aren’t announced. 
“I am just honored ... to stand up there with great­ness,” Rice added. 
Smith teared up when speaking about his father and how “I was living his dream.” 
“We are blessed to achieve this level of greatness togeth­er,” Smith said, referring to Rice. 
They will be inducted into the Pro Football Hall of Fame in Canton, Ohio, on Aug. 7. 
Rice and Smith each won three Super Bowls and was the MVP in one of those victo­ries. Smith was the 1993 league MVP, as well. 
Rice, the NFL’s career receiving and touchdowns leader, and Smith, the top rusher, were joined in the Hall by John Randle, Russ Grimm, Rickey Jackson, Floyd Little and Dick LeBeau. Little and LeBeau were elected as senior committee nominees. 
Rice, the perfect receiver for the West Coast offense, played 20 seasons for San Francisco, Oakland and Seattle. He made 1,549 catch­es for 22,895 yards, had 14 1,000 -yard seasons and scored 208 touchdowns. 
Smith, among the most durable running backs, rushed for 18,355 yards and 164 touchdowns for Dallas and Arizona. 
“This is almost perfect,” Smith said. “I don’t think even Steven Spielberg could have written a script this nice. So many people said I could not do it. I believed in that little giant inside of me that said I can.” 
Added Rice, standing shoul­der to shoulder with Smith: “It’s just like playing in that big game, this is something you think about, and it is happening. I never thought I would go in .... with this guy here. 
Steve Young, one of two Hall of Fame quarterbacks who threw to Rice, got the first hug from the new inductee, then said: “They made yards after the catch a stat because of Jerry Rice.” 
Two other all -time top receivers, Cris Carter and Tim Brown, weren’t elected. Carter, in his third year of eli­gibility, stands third in career receptions with 1,101, while Brown, in his first year on the ballot, made 1,094. 
Jackson, a do-everything linebacker with a great burst off the line, finished his 15­season career for New Orleans and San Francisco with 128 sacks. A six-time Pro Bowler, Jackson sparked the first turnaround by the Saints from Aints to con ­tender, in the late 1980s. He helped the Saints to their first division title and playoff berth. 
Now, a day before the Saints appear in their first Super Bowl against the Indianapolis Colts, Jackson is Canton -bound. One little glitch: He was introduced as Randy instead of Rickey. 

Randle was that rare defen­sive tackle who was a pre­mier pass rusher. An undraft­ed free agent out of Texas A&I, Randle had 137.5 sacks for Minnesota and Seattle, tied for sixth overall and most for his position, and led the league with 15.5 in 1997. He played in seven Pro Bowls. 
Grimm, a member of the Washington Redskins’ famed Hogs offensive line, won three Super Bowls. A guard, he made four Pro Bowls and was selected to the all -decade team of the 1980s. 
The two senior committee inductees did not get enough support from the regular panel of media members when they were eligible. 
LeBeau, the current defen­sive coordinator of the Pittsburgh Steelers, is consid­ered one of pro football’s great defensive innovators as a coach. But he was voted in for his outstanding work for the Lions from 1959 -72. LeBeau finished with 62 interceptions, second among cornerbacks when he retired. 
“They say anything worth having is worth waiting on,” LeBeau said. “It has been a long wait. I can ’t imagine anything else that could be any more rewarding.” 
Little starred for the Denver Broncos in the AFL and NFL, leading the NFL in rushing in 1971 with 1,133 yards and in touchdowns rushing in 1973 with 12. He waited 30 years to get elected. 
“My dad used to take me to games to watch Jerry play,” Little joked, cracking up Rice. 
“It’s been a long journey. This is truly my dream. You can’t explain the emotions of the way you feel at this moment.” 
MLB 

Lefty Bedard returns to Mariners with one-year deal 
the $7.75 million Bedard made “He has a ways to go,” said son. Bedard salary arbitration this 
Associated Press 
last season. It includes incentive Griffin, who has been oversee-“We’ve carefully monitored winter after paying him $14.75 

SEATTLE — Despite shoulder clauses, the exact value of ing Bedard’s rehabilitation from his recovery from surgery and million for two seasons in which surgeries and disappointment which were not immediately afar because the team had been his rehabilitation process and he won 11 games in 30 starts. in Seattle during each of the known. financially responsible for it are confident he’ll be a contrib-Shoulder troubles kept him last two seasons, free-agent He is rehabilitating with a while he was a free agent. utor to our 2010 campaign.” from pitching past July 4 in his left-hander Erik Bedard is com-physical therapist in his native Zduriencik thinks this latest, After two disappointing sea-first season with the team. ing back to the Mariners. Canada following surgery in low-cost move that caps sons with Bedard, Seattle no He had surgery in September 
General manager Jack August to repair a torn labrum Seattle’s splashy winter could longer needs him to be on top of 2008 to remove a cyst in his left Zduriencik announced Saturday in his pitching shoulder. Last pay off handsomely — if Bedard the rotation. The Mariners trad-shoulder. He was on the active the team and the oft-injured 30-week, Mariners trainer Rick can get and stay healthy. ed for former Cy Young Award roster for just 20 days past June year-old agreed to a one-year Griffin said the normal recovery “We think Erik is an impor-winner Cliff Lee this winter to 17 last season before his next contract with a mutual option time for the procedure is 10-12 tant piece for us to add,” pair with Felix Hernandez, surgery. for 2011. months. That would have Zduriencik said. “We’re confi-whom the team recently minted When he has pitched for the 
The contract is expected to Bedard making his season dent he’ll be ready to pitch (in) with a $78 million contract. Mariners, he has rarely lasted have a base salary a fraction of debut in June at the earliest. major league games this sea-The Mariners declined to offer deep into games. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall. Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
If you or someone you care about Morpheus: I imagine that right now, Commodus: The general who has been sexually assaulted, we you're feeling a bit like Alice. Hmm? became a slave. The slave who 

FOR SALE FOR RENT PERSONAL can help. For more information, visit Tumbling down the rabbit hole? became a gladiator. The gladiator Notre Dame's website: Neo: You could say that. who defied an emperor. Striking http.csap.nd.edu Morpheus: I see it in your eyes. You story! But now, the people want to 
Four condos for sale under UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do have the look of a man who accepts know how the story ends. Only a $150,000. Steps to Notre Dame. not go it alone. Notre Dame has what he sees because he is expect-famous death will do. And what http://realst8.com/4-condos or call many resources in place to assist ing to wake up. Ironically, that's not could be more glorious than to chal­574-217-4770 you. If you or someone you love Abbe Faria: When I told them I had far from the truth. Do you believe in lenge the Emperor himself in the 
gradrentals.viewwork.com needs confidential support or assis-no idea where Count Spada hid his fate, Neo? great arena? COONHOUND MIX: Free to good tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at treasure, I lied. Neo: No. Maximus: You would fight me? home. 8mths, neutured, trained, all 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For Edmond: You lied? Morpheus: Why not? Commodus: Why not? Do you think shots. Healthy, intelligent, ener-more information, visit ND's web Abbe Faria: I'm a priest, not a saint. Neo: Because I don't like the idea I am afraid? getic. Needs dedicated owner. site: that I'm not in control of my life. Maximus: I think you've been afraid (574)234-5707 http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu all your life. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around the Nation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Monday, February 8, 2010 
page 13 

NCAA Division I Men’s CSCAA Swimming Rankings 
team previous 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 Texas Stanford Arizona California Auburn Florida Michigan Virginia Ohio State Minnesota Tennessee Georgia USC North Carolina Florida State Louisville LSU Purdue Texas A&M Alabama Kentucky UNLV SMU Virginia Indiana 
1 2 4 3 5 4 7 9 12 8 11 10 13 14 15 16 18 19 22 21 16 18 21 24 24 

NCAA Division I Women’s CSCAA Swimming Rankings 
team previous 
1 Georgia 1 2 Arizona 2 3 Texas 4 4 Stanford 3 5 California 6 6 Texas A&M 6 7 Florida 7 8 Aubun 8 9 USC 9 10 Minnesota 10 11 Virginia 11 12 Tennessee 13 13 Louisville 14 14 Indana 12 15 North Carolina 15 16 Michigan 16 17 Wisconsin 17 18 SMU 19 19 Arkansas 18 20 Virginia Tech 20 21 Missouri 24 22 Purdue 22 23 Northwestern 23 24 LSU 21 25 Florida State 25 


around the dial 
NBA Basketball 
Devils at Flyers 7 p.m., Versus 

Men’s NCAA Basketball 
Kansas at Texas 9 p.m., ESPN 
NFL 

Saints top Colts in Super Bowl XLIV 
Associated Press 
MIAMI, Fla. — Who Dat won the Super Bowl? The New Orleans Saints, that’s who. 
Ain’t kidding. 
Put away those paper bags forever: Drew Brees and the Saints are NFL champions, rallying to beat Peyton Manning and the Indianapolis Colts 31-17 Sunday night in one of pro football’s most thrilling title games. 
Brees tied a Super Bowl record with 32 completions, the last a 2-yard slant to Jeremy Shockey for the win­ning points with 5:42 remaining. The Pro Bowl quarterback was chosen Super Bowl MVP. 
New Orleans’ lowly ranked defense made sever­al key stops, an onside kick sparked their second-half comeback, and Tracy Porter’s 74-yard intercep­tion return on a pass from Manning, of all people, clinched it. 
Manning gave chase, but fell awkwardly as the cor­nerback raced by. The four-time NFL MVP forlornly walked to the sideline as the Big Easy celebrations began. Who would have thought the biggest mistake of the game would have come from Manning? 
An NFL embarrassment for much of their 43 years, the Saints’ football renais­sance, led by Brees and coach Sean Payton, cli­maxed with Shockey’s touchdown and Lance Moore’s 2-point conversion catch. The conversion pass originally was ruled incom­plete, but Payton challenged the call and won. 
Porter’s pick, just as dra­matic as his interception of Brett Favre’s pass to force overtime in the NFC title game, was the game’s only turnover. It’s one Manning will forever regret. 
The Saints (16-3) won three postseason games this winter after winning only two in the previous 42 years. They beat Arizona, Minnesota and Indianapolis (16-3) — all division winners 
— for their first title, scoring 107 points and allowing only 59. 
IN BRIEF 
Maple Leafs stunned by 
death of GM Burke’s son 
TORONTO — A moment of silence will be held for Brendan Burke, the son of Toronto general manager Brian Burke who died in car acci­dent, before the Maple Leafs play Ottawa on Saturday night. 
The 21-year-old Burke died after his car slid sideways into the path of another car on a snowy Indiana road on Friday. Burke’s friend, 18­year-old Mark Reedy, also died in the accident. 
Maple Leafs players found out about the accident after a loss in New Jersey on Friday night. 
Toronto’s Francois Beauchemin played for Burke when he was gen­eral manager for the Anaheim Ducks and recalled celebrating their 2007 Stanley Cup win at a gathering with Brendan. 
“You never think, ‘that’s going to happen to me,’” Beauchemin said after Saturday’s pregame skate. 
FBI investigated letters 
sent to Pistons’ Daly 
DETROIT — The FBI investigated a series of threatening letters sent to Detroit Pistons coach Chuck Daly at the height of his team’s success during the 1989-90 “Bad Boys” championship era, newly released government records show. 
The 67 pages, obtained by The Associated Press as part of a Freedom of Information Act request, detail how fed­eral agents in Detroit ordered fingerprint, handwriting and even psycholinguistic analyses as part of an effort to determine who sent the correspondences. 
Daly’s teams played a punishing, in-your-face brand of defense that angered opposing players and coaches, and — based on the content of the letters exam­ined by the FBI — fans, too.” 
“God made me realize that YOU, not Laimbeer, Mahorn or any of the others are the one possessed by (Satan),” the author wrote in the one-page handwrit­ten letter addressed to “Mr. Chuck Daly.” 
The championship came 4½ years after Hurricane Katrina ravaged New Orleans, making the Saints nomads for the 2005 season. There even was some doubt they would return, but the NFL refused to abandon the Big Easy. The Superdome was rebuilt and the Saints won the NFC South in ‘06, their first season with Brees and Payton. 
That was the season Manning won his only Super Bowl. 
Colts in front for much of this one, but New Orleans’ league-leading offense, which scored 510 points this season, outscored Indy 31-7 after falling behind 10-0.e Pro Bowl has dropped off a few pegs,’ that I do belong.” 
Verlander agrees to $80 
million deal with Tigers 
DETROIT — Justin Verlander likely would have earned a nine-figure contract if he was able to stay healthy and successful for two more seasons. Instead, Verlander agreed to an $80 million, five-year deal to stay with the Detroit Tigers. 
“It wasn’t very tempting, to be honest, ” he insisted Thursday after the contract was finalized. “It’s fun to think about, but why risk anything else if you know this is where you want to play base­ball? And, I certainly don’t plan on my career being over in five years.” 
In fact, Verlander is aiming at an honor that could potentially happen five years after he retires. 
“I have one goal, and that’s to make it to the Hall of Fame,” he said. “If you get there, you’ve done some things right.” 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, February 8, 2010 
MLB 

Twins sign infielder Hudson for one year 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — The Twins sure aren’t spending like a small-market team these days. 
With a new ballpark set to open in April and a core of talented players in their prime, the Twins have shed their frugal ways. 
The latest addition came late Thursday night when Minnesota agreed to a $5 mil­lion, one-year contract with second baseman Orlando Hudson. He joins a list of new faces that includes shortstop 
J.J. Hardy and slugger Jim Thome. And the team is in negotiations with catcher Joe Mauer on what promises to be a franchise-record long-term extension. 
The team’s payroll already projects to over $95 million for the upcoming season, an unheard of level for a team that pointed to the Metrodome’s inability to gen­erate revenue as the main reason it would not keep up with baseball’s biggest spenders. 
“We’re fortunate as we move from the Metrodome to Target Field that we have some additional revenues,” general manager Bill Smith said during a conference call Friday. “Believe me, we’ve probably tapped pretty well into that revenue stream.” 
Their tight-budgeted ways were never more evident than after the 2007 season, when they lost Torii Hunter to the Los Angeles Angels in free agency and traded ace Johan Santana to the Mets with one year left on his deal to avoid losing him with little compen­sation. 
In the last few seasons, with the blessing of ownership, Smith and the Twins have steadily increased their pay­roll to a more competitive level. They spent $80 million on first baseman Justin Morneau, $47 million on clos­er Joe Nathan and $24 million on right fielder Michael Cuddyer two years ago. 
This year, the Twins are tak­ing advantage of what figures to be their final year as rev­enue sharing recipients in 2009. They brought back vet­eran right-hander Carl Pavano for one year and $7 million, brought in Thome for a bar­gain at $1.5 million and added Hudson, an All-Star and four-time Gold Glove winner. 
They also were able to agree to contracts for all eight of their arbitration-eligible play­ers, including $5.1 million for Hardy, who was acquired in a trade from Milwaukee. 
So even before a game has been played at Target Field, the Twins already are reaping the benefits by pushing their payroll toward the top 10. 
“We’re certainly running to the upper extremes of where we can be,” Smith said, later adding that “I think it’s fair to say if we were in the Metrodome we wouldn’t have had the revenues to be where we’re at right now.” 
They are also showing Mauer that simply winning division titles and moving into a shiny new ballpark isn’t enough. Mauer is entering the final season of his contract, and the Yankees, Red Sox and other big-market clubs likely wouldn’t hesitate to lob enor­mous proposals at the three-time AL batting champion and reigning AL MVP. 
The native of St. Paul has made it clear that he would like to continue to play for his hometown team, but also wants to play for a winner. He was impressed with the addi­tion of Thome and Hardy, and Hudson fills one of the few holes left in a potent lineup. 
The Twins needed a No. 2 hitter between Denard Span and Mauer, and Hudson fits the mold. The 32-year-old bat­ted .283 with 35 doubles, six triples, nine homers and 62 RBIs in 551 at-bats for the Dodgers last year. 
“You never know who can contend just by going through the offseason or whatever,” Hudson said on Friday. “But I know definitely Minnesota’s going to be a contender. That’s an automatic. We’ve got a deadly lineup, we know that with Morneau and Mauer.” 
Hudson fell out of favor with Dodgers manager Joe Torre down the stretch last season, a development that mystifies him to this day. 
“I have no clue,” Hudson said. “I mean, I’m not the manager. Maybe I wasn’t good enough to play in his lineup, or whatever the case may be. All I can do is be ready when he called my name. He never gave me an explanation why he sat me down.” 
The Twins were only too happy to snap him up and now appear well-equipped to defend their AL Central divi­sion title. But Smith relayed a conversation between manag­er Ron Gardenhire and Hudson that shows they have bigger goals in mind. 
When Hudson told Gardenhire he wanted to play for a contender, “Gardy told him, ‘We’re not trying to con­tend. We’re already doing that,”’ Smith said. “We’re try­ing to get to the World Series.” 
MLB 
Lincecumreadyforarbitration 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Tim Lincecum is prepared to hear some harsh criticism in an arbitration hearing with the San Francisco Giants — per­haps even delving into his off­season pot bust. 
The two-time reigning NL Cy Young Award winner is asking for a record $13 million, while the Giants offered $8 million when the sides exchanged numbers last month. 
“The business side is what we’re scraping at right now,” Lincecum said Friday, appear­ing at AT&T Park ahead of Saturday’s FanFest. “Going to arbitration, everybody knows what can happen and the feel­ings that can get hurt. I’m just trying to keep an open mind. If anybody knows my flaws, I do. If they’re going to point them out and that has to hap­pen, then whatever. I know I’ve got to get better. I don’t feel like my feelings are hurt.” 
Lincecum is seeking the richest contract ever awarded in arbitration, surpassing the $10 million that Alfonso Soriano (2006) and Francisco Rodriguez (2008) got after los­ing cases and Ryan Howard received after winning in 2008. 
Lincecum’s hearing is sched­uled for this month in St. Petersburg, Fla. He plans to attend. 
“With the two Cy Youngs, it just throws a curveball in the mix,” Lincecum said. “People were saying I could ask for pretty much anything.” 
Two other top pitchers just received five-year contracts, with Detroit’s Justin Verlander getting $80 million and Seattle’s Felix Hernandez $78 million. 
“At some point. something’s going to get figured out,” Lincecum said. “Either way, I try not to have ill feelings about anything. I just try to come out here and the whole purpose is to try to help the team win. It’s not about a grudge match. When it gets finalized, it will be good. I just try to take in what I can in the experience and not be too oblivious to everything but also not getting too involved, either. I let my agent do his job and I’ll just do mine.” 
For Lincecum, that means throwing off a mound for the first time this offseason and completing a couple of bullpen sessions before reporting Feb. 17 to the team’s Scottsdale, Ariz., facility. After lunch Friday, he headed outside to play some light catch with fel­low starter Barry Zito and closer Brian Wilson on a part­ly sunny, overcast Bay Area day. 
Manager Bruce Bochy does­n’t expect his ace to be dis­tracted by his contract deal­ings. 
“He’s going to have to put it aside,” Bochy said. “Timmy, I really think he understands the process. This is a business. It has to be separated from what you do on the field. Tim realizes that. Whatever hap­pens, what number, who wins, it cannot distract what you’re paid to do: play the game to the best of your ability. This is unprecedented with what Timmy’s done and the num­bers that are out there. It’s created a lot of interest in the baseball world. Everybody’s curious to see how this thing shakes out. It’s a win-win. Either way, he’s going to be fine.” 
It’s unclear whether the Giants will bring up Lincecum’s legal trouble. 
There is language listed in the criteria for arbitration hearings dealing with “special qualities of leadership and public appeal” and the “exis­tence of any physical or men­tal defects on the part of the player.” Lincecum figures it all will be fair game. 
On Jan. 19, the same day salary numbers were exchanged, Lincecum agreed to pay $513 to resolve mari­juana charges against him in Washington state. 
“If they do (bring it up), the one thing I said is I would not let it happen again,” Lincecum said. “It’s part of my past. I’m going to move on. I feel like I’ve made a step forward from it. I’ve become a better person for it. I’ve got to stop making stupid decisions. It’s one of those things it’s time to grow up now.” 
Lincecum has been prepped for how to handle the scenario if it does become part of the hearing. He said he’s read about what organizations have said to players in the past. 
“I’m not going to try to take any ill regard to it at all — try to take it as constructive criti­cism I suppose,” he said. 
Lincecum originally faced two misdemeanor charges of marijuana and drug parapher­nalia possession stemming from a traffic stop on Oct. 30. The charges were reduced to a civil infraction. 
Lincecum appeared in Clark County District Court before Judge Darvin Zimmerman, and Giants managing partner Bill Neukom was in court in a sign of support for Lincecum. 
“I didn’t have any idea. I walked in and he was sitting there,” Lincecum said. “It was kind of a pleasant surprise. It showed the kind of support the Giants give their players. It’s great.” 
He paid a speeding ticket separately. 
Lincecum just recently received his second Cy Young Award, and both were in the back of his car for now. He plans to gift the first one to his father, Chris — the one responsible for teaching the pitcher his effective yet funky mechanics. 
This winter has been calmer for Lincecum compared to a year ago following his first Cy Young Award and the round of public appearances afterward. This time, he spent time with his French bulldog, Cy, and playing video games. 
“It felt like a typical chill off­season,” Lincecum said. “I don’t do a lot. I’m a home­body.” 
Even his teammates are curious to see how his case is resolved. 
“It will be exciting to see how that situation pans out,” starter Matt Cain said. 


Monday, February 8, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
NBA 

Bosh, Raptors top Kings 
Associated Press 
TORONTO — The Sacramento Kings picked a bad time to blink. 
Chris Bosh had 36 points and 11 rebounds, Andrea Bargnani scored 22 points and the Toronto Raptors rallied to beat the Kings 115-104 on Sunday afternoon, extending Sacramento’s losing streak to six games. 
“We had a lead in the fourth quarter and couldn’t hold it,” Kings coach Paul Westphal said. “We missed a lot of free throws; we couldn’t control Bosh. 
“We couldn’t finish the deal and it’s primarily because we couldn’t get the stops we needed. It was about 42 or 44 minutes of really good basketball for us. The four to six minutes that was­n’t gives us a loss.” 
Hedo Turkoglu and Antoine Wright each scored 16 points as Toronto topped 100 for the 16th consecutive game and won its seventh straight at home. 
Kevin Martin scored 24 points and Spencer Hawes had 14 points and 11 rebounds for the Kings, who have won just three of their past 20 and are 3-22 on the road. 
“You start missing free throws and you start missing shots, everyone gets pressing, everyone kind of tenses up,” Hawes said. “That tends to happen in the fourth quarter, regardless. When things start going wrong it kind of magnifies itself.” 
It’s the third time in four games the Kings have been burned in the fourth, and the late lapses are wearing on rook­ie Tyreke Evans. 
“That’s when our problem is,” Evans said. “Coach always comes into the locker room and says, ‘We’re almost there.’ That’s not going to get us where we want to be. We’ve got to find a way to work hard and pull together down the stretch.” 
Donte Greene scored 13 points while Evans and Andres Nocioni each had 11 for Sacramento. 
Bosh made 14 of 18 field goal attempts and went 8 for 11 from the foul line as the Raptors won for the 13th time in 14 home games. 
“I said coming into this season that I want to be the best for­ward in the league and I was going to have to be consistent, try to play every game,” Bosh said. “So far it’s been pretty good.” 
Bosh has had double-doubles in nine of his past 11, leading former college teammate Jarrett Jack to call this the best stretch of Bosh’s career. 
“I’ve never seen him play like this,” Jack said. “He’s almost dominant. The other team is really at his mercy. He just puts it to them, night in and night out. It’s an unbelievable thing that not too many can do in this league and he’s able to.” 
Sacramento’s Sean May made two jumpers to open the fourth, giving the Kings a 91-84 lead, but Toronto scored the next eight points, including a three-point play by Bosh and a break­away dunk by Sonny Weems, to lead 92-91 with 10:04 remain­ing. 
It stayed close until Bosh made a layup and a pair of free throws and Wright sandwiched a jumper and a corner 3 around a free throw by Greene, putting Toronto up 105-97 with 4:12 left. 
“We blinked,” Westphal said. “We missed and they didn’t. Then we’re playing from behind and desperation sets in a little bit.” 
Toronto welcomed Turkoglu and DeMar DeRozan back to the starting lineup after injuries. Turkoglu wore a mask to protect the fractured orbital bone that kept him out of the past two games, while DeRozan had missed five games with a sprained right ankle. Jose Calderon, who missed one game with a right ankle sprain, also returned, but Marco Belinelli was scratched with a sore left ankle. 
Turkoglu had been reluctant to wear the mask but changed his mind Saturday. He was hot early, scoring nine points in the first as Toronto made nine of its first 11 field goal attempts. 
Turkoglu said the straps on the mask bothered him most, forcing him to constantly adjust the fit. 
“When I run I have to keep fix­ing it because sometimes when I’m driving it moves and covers my eyes,” Turkoglu said. “I think when I get used to it I’ll feel more comfortable.” 
NASCAR 
Patrick fnishes sixth in stock car debut 
ed from the NASCAR drivers 
Associated Press 
meeting to congratulate her, 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. — while Rick Hendrick — who Bobby Gerhart held yet owns a stake in JR another trophy. Motorsports — was quick to 
Danica Patrick held her praise her over the in-car own. radio. 
Gerhart’s record sixth “You drove the wheels off ARCA victory at Daytona that thing, girl,” Hendrick International Speedway was told her. “We are proud of overshadowed by the suc-you.” cessful stock car debut of the Patrick replied, “Thank you IndyCar star, who rallied very much.” from a midrace spinout to The Daytona ARCA race is finish sixth Saturday in the notorious for its frequent and crash-filled race. spectacular crashes — “You 
“It was a lot of fun,” need to wear a helmet if you Patrick said. “I bumped from watch it from the stands,” the side. I bumped from the driver Scott Speed said earli­front. I got bumped from the er in the week — and this back. I learned a lot, and I year’s race was no exception. had so much fun in a race The car carnage started car today. So I can’t wait to early, when Bill Baird’s car do it again.” got wildly 
Patrick’s loose on lap 7 first foray into and collided 
“I’m really just 
stock car rac-with Steve 
ing was widely thinking about today, Blackburn, anticipated, what I learned and resulting in an and she didn’t eight-car pile-
what I can do better.” 
disappoint. up. The race 
After spend-restarted 10 ing much of Danica Patrick laps later — the race NASCAR Driver and the field 


among the top 10, she bumped fenders with Nelson Piquet Jr. and spun out through the infield grass on lap 54, costing her any real­istic hopes of a victory. But she charged through the field in the closing laps, getting as high as fifth with three laps left. 
It impressed Dale Earnhardt Jr.’s sister Kelley, who was instrumental in put­ting together the deal that brought Patrick to the fami­ly’s JR Motorsports team. 
“I think she showed us she was able to drive,” Kelley Earnhardt said. “One time I saw her up on the high side, she pulled down low. I kept thinking, ‘Come on, let’s up pull off an Earnhardt. Pass 18 cars in three laps and win this thing.’” 
But she didn’t have enough to catch Gerhart, who has won the ARCA season opener six of the last 12 years. 
“As a little kid, I dreamed of having an opportunity to come here and race,” Gerhart said. “When that happens, naturally comes the passion to come out and win, but I couldn’t imagine doing it this many times.” 
Mark Thompson was sec­ond, followed by John Wes Townley, James Buescher and Patrick Sheltra. 
Gerhart, who said he had-n’t yet met Patrick, under­stood his name probably wouldn’t end up in the head­lines. 
“Overshadowed by what? Did I miss something?” Gerhart deadpanned. “I’m glad she was here, really. It brought some very, very well-needed attention to this series.” 
Patrick will race a partial schedule in NASCAR’s sec­ond-tier Nationwide series this season. She has not yet decided if she will compete in the Nationwide opener at Daytona next Saturday. 
“I’m really just thinking about today, what I learned and what I can do better,” Patrick said. 
Her car owners seemed pleased. Earnhardt Jr. sprint­couldn’t even 
get through a full lap without another wreck. 
Dakoda Armstrong’s car spun out and was hit hard by Craig Goess, bringing the race to a halt again. Patrick artfully swerved high to avoid the wreck. 
Another female driver in the field, Jill George, walked away safely after her car overturned in a frightening accident on lap 27. The race was red flagged in the after­math of the accident as track safety workers repaired a fence. 
Patrick learned about drafting at Daytona the hard way on lap 49, when she moved out of the low groove and lost touch with the lead­ers, slipping from sixth to 11th. 
She noted over her in-car radio that the car was begin­ning to get loose and slide around on the track — and things were about to get much worse. 
On lap 54, Piquet Jr. tapped fenders with Patrick on the frontstretch, spinning Patrick into the infield grass. 
“Grass is not good for grip,” Patrick recalled think­ing as her car was sliding. 
She made an impressive save, managing to keep her car from sliding into the wall. Patrick was able to get back in the race but slipped to 24th. 
The most frightening wreck of the day came a few laps later, when Barry Fitzgerald’s car went tum­bling wildly in the infield grass next to the backstretch. The car flipped seven times before coming to a stop, but Fitzgerald was able to climb out of the car. 
Patrick’s performance is likely to overshadow the wrecks and Gerhart’s win, but Gerhart said he didn’t mind. 
“I actually welcome the opportunity to have a nation­al platform to compete at,” Gerhart said. “Hopefully when somebody talks about this series now, they’re not going to say, ‘You do what?’” 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, February 8, 2010 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles get easy win over Kalamazoo 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s had a break­out offensive performance Saturday en route to an easy victory over Kalamazoo, win­ning 91-52. 
Saint Mary ’s (12 -9, 7-6 MIAA) had an attack mentali­ty from the beginning of the game, pushing the ball up the court on offense and harass­ing Kalamazoo (1-18, 1-12) on the defensive end. 
“I think we had a big week in terms of picking up two conference wins, ” Belles coach Jennifer Henley said. “I thought we played well at both ends of the floor.” 
Saint Mary’s went up by 10 points just over three min­utes into the game and con­tinued to widen the gap, breaking the game beyond a 20 -point margin halfway through the first half on sophomore guard Patsy Mahoney’s 3-pointer. Though the Hornets fought back to a 16-point deficit, the Belles would not let up and took a 55-25 lead into the half. 
The second half was more of the same, although Saint Mary’s slowed the scoring somewhat. The Belles contin­ued to dominate both phases of play, never letting the Hornets get closer than 29 points. 
Saint Mary ’s spread the points around with five play­ers finishing in double digits. Sophomore forward Jessica Centa led with 18 points. Every Belle that entered the game scored at least two points. The Belles shot 48.5 percent from the field and 50 percent from beyond the 3­point arc. 
In addition to spreading the ball around, the Belles excelled Saturday on the offensive glass, rebounding 22 of their own misses and earning 25 second-chance points; this was their best performance in terms of offensive rebounding. Henley, however, was still concerned about the Belles’ ball securi­ty. 
“We need to focus on cut­ting down our turnovers as we prepare for Wheaton and Hope this week,” she said. “We have played each team once already this season and came up short. There’s no doubt we will be challenged.” The Belles next play Saturday at Hope in Holland, Mich. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 

NBA 

Turner scores 32 as No. 13 Buckeyes beat Iowa 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio — Evan Turner stayed up late on Saturday night, watching Michigan State lose to turn the Big Ten race into a free-for all. 
Then he got up early on Sunday morning to make sure No. 13 Ohio State stayed in the mix. 
Turner matched his career high with 32 points, leading the Buckeyes past Iowa 68-58 on Sunday and stretching the their Big Ten winning streak to seven straight. 
“We got here at 7:45 in the morning,” Turner said after the rare Ohio State game with a noon tip -off. “We caught the Michigan State versus Illinois game last night, so we were up kind of late. We came out and com­peted and got the job done.” 
Every time that Ohio State needed a big basket, Turner had a part in it. He also had five assists and seven rebounds. 
“You probably saw about what he is,” Iowa coach Todd Lickliter said. “It’s not unique to us, what happened. He’s tough to contain.” 
Buckeyes coach Thad Matta was asked if Turner is the best player in the nation. 
“If there’s one out there better than him, then I look forward to seeing him, ” Matta said. “Because he’s playing really well right now.” 
Jon Diebler added 12 points for the Buckeyes (18-6, 8-3), who have won four in a row overall and seven of eight. 
Eric May scored 16 points, Aaron Fuller and Cully Payne 11 each, and Matt Gatens 10 for the Hawkeyes (8-16, 2-9), who have lost four in a row and won just once away from home. 
It was Ohio State’s second win over the Hawkeyes in 12 days. The Buckeyes finished strong in Iowa City to win 65­57 on Jan. 27. They moved to 15 -0 at home this season, where they are shooting 54 percent from the field and 42 percent on 3-pointers. 
But this was not a typical hot -shooting home game. Ohio State made just 22 of 49 shots from the field for 45 percent, and was only 2 of 13 behind the arc. 
Ahead by five at the half, Ohio State pulled away when it held Iowa to 1-of-9 shoot­ing to start the second half. 
TRACK & FIELD 
Squad faces tough competition 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish came into the Meyo Invitational this weekend looking to add more names to the Big East and NCAA Championships qualifying list, which has grown with every meet. To do so, they had to compete against the strongest competition that they have faced so far in 2010. Despite the stiff competition, the Irish succeeded in their goal. 
Over the two-day meet, held at the Loftus Sports Center, the Irish were continually pinned against the nation’s top athletes from the likes of Michigan State, Illinois, Ohio State, Louisville, Alabama, Michigan and Marquette. 
Freshman Nevada Sorenson qualified for the NCAA Championships with a 60-meter hurdles time of 8.41. Sophomore Jack Howard ran the nation’s fourth-fastest 800-meter time at 1:48.60, an NCAA provisional qualifying time. The women’s dis­tance medley relay team finished third and qualified for the NCAA Championships with a time of 
11:24.87. The top three times all qualified teams for the Championships. 
The men’s weight throw squad had a good showing, with junior Justin Belcher finishing fourth with a throw of 18.71 meters, just ahead of junior Greg Davis who had a throw of 18.26 meters. Junior Denes Veres finished ninth with a throw of 17.67 meters. 
In the women’s 400-meter race, senior standout Joanna Schultz finished second at 53.36 seconds, narrowly missing the title. Schultz had already quali­fied for the NCAA Championships with a previous performance. 
In the men’s mile, sophomore Johnathan Shawel finished fifth at 4:07.65. Freshman Jeremy Rae finished sixth with a time of 4:08.02 
On the women’s side of the mile, junior Marissa Treece fin­ished third with a time of 4:47.99 and freshman Rebecca Tracy fin­ished sixth. Tracy also won the 1000-meter race Friday. 
Competitors also posted record times at the meet. Alabama’s Kirani James set the current world’s fastest 400-meter time at 
45.79 seconds. In the women’s pole vault, Purdue’s Brianna Neumann broke the Meyo record. 
In the “Meyo mile,” an event known to record some of the fastest times of the indoor track season, Ohio State’s Jeff See ran the second-fastest collegiate mile time at 3:58.82. This race was separate from the men’s mile. 
The Irish will have next week­end off as they prepare for the Big East indoor championships in New York on Feb. 20-21. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 



Monday, February 8, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
Diggins 
continued from page 20 
weeks. The Irish out-rebound­ed the Panthers 38-32. 
“We really stressed winning the rebounding battle,” Diggins said. “That was number one on our list today, and we did.” 
Pittsburgh (12-10, 1-8) kept the game close early but a 3­point shot from Diggins widened the lead to 14-10 after five minutes. 
Diggins put up 17 points in the first half, senior guard Lindsay Schrader took over scoring duties in the second period. She scored 10 in the second half and 18 total points on 7­of-11 shooting. 
“You’re not going to shoot any better than that,” McGraw said. “I thought she did a good job.” 
Notre Dame also came out ahead in its post play, outscor­ing Pittsburgh 46-34 in the paint despite the Panthers’ size advantage. 
“We were aggressive,” McGraw said. “We really were aggressive, attacking. We just did a nice job inside.” 
Schrader said the size differ­ence was a factor at the begin­ning of the game but that Notre Dame was able to adjust. 
Power 
continued from page 20 
The Irish went 0-for-12 in power play chances on the evening, totaling an anemic 0­for-18 on the weekend. Power play struggles have been a repeated theme for Notre Dame 

“I think we just had to go around them,” she said. “A few of us got our shots blocked, but you can’t go overtop a six-six girl. We started to go around them and that’s when they started fouling.” 
The Panthers got into foul trouble early in the second half, putting Notre Dame in the bonus just seven minutes in. The Irish finished 21-of-29 from the free throw line. Four Pittsburgh players ended with 
four fouls each. 
“Every game in 
the Big East is 
going to be phys­

“Nobody’s going to 
Though the ical. Every single 
margin was come in and push us. game,” Shrader 
rarely in dou-We’re going to push said. “Nobody’s ble digits, going to come in 
right back.” 
Pittsburgh did and push us. not threaten We’re going to the lead. Lindsay Schrader push right back. 
After Irish captain Being physical is 
part of our game. 
We like being 
physical.” 
Despite the physical nature of the game, both teams han­dled the ball well. Notre Dame had a season-low nine turnovers, while Pittsburgh had just 10. 
Pittsburgh guard Taneisha Harrison led her team with 20 points. Three other Panthers scored in double digits as the Irish gave up 15 points more than their season average. 
“I was disappointed in our defense,” McGraw said. “Seventy-six points. That’s unforgivable. We’ve got a lot of work to do with our defense.” 
Notre Dame will travel to Cincinnati Tuesday for a 7 p.m. tipoff against the Bearcats. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
this season. 
“Between penalties and injuries, we’ve had a tough time keeping units together,” Jackson said. “When you take guys that are power play spe­cialists out of the lineup, your continuity changes. We needed to make some adjustments, and it shows up in the fact we haven’t had that cohesiveness for our power play.” 
The Irish have a bye week before heading to Bowling Green next weekend, hoping to stay alive in the CCHA. 
Contact Michael Blasco at mblasco@nd.edu 
FENCING 
Men, women stay perfect 
By KEVIN BALDWIN 
Sports Writer 
For the first time in nearly two decades, the Irish stayed perfect. 
Both teams concluded their seasons at the Notre Dame duals at the Joyce Center this weekend. The Irish men’s and women’s squads now stand at 33-0 and 35 -0, respectively. 
“We had a good tourna­ment here, its not easy because it’s on your own ter­ritory but we did a good job, they won everything,” Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. 
The men’s and women’s teams have not both finished the regular season undefeat­ed since 1991. 
This weekend’s tournament featured lopsided wins over top programs from around the region including Lawrence, Michigan, Northwestern, Wisconsin, Michigan State, Illinois, Chicago, Cleveland State, Purdue, Indiana and Detroit. 
“We fenced a couple of con­ference rivals towards the end of the tournament ... and we’re taking care of business here,” junior Zach Shirtz said. “Come the conference tournament I think we should easily be the top seed.” 
Schirtz, along with fellow all-American junior Steve Kubik, won all of his bouts Sunday in the men’s foil. 
The Irish will use the expe­rience gained from fencing many of these teams in March when they meet again in the Midwest conference championships. Though the dominant Northwestern women’s team faded fast Saturday, three weeks of recovery can make a signifi­cant difference requiring the Irish to stay vigilant as they enter the postseason. 
“They didn’t lose their clean streak but of course we still have a lot of things to do with the conference champi­
onships coming up,” Bednarski said. 
The Irish rallied around teammate Teddy Hodges, who was in attendance for the event after recovering from a viral infection last year that required a heart transplant. Last week, the team vowed to dedicate the performance to him and this weekend he was on the side­lines cheering them to victo­ry. 
“It was a big morale boost for the team because it’s like a family,” junior foilist Hayley Reese said. Reese added five wins to the team total Saturday. 

Hodges, whose brother freshman Grant Hodges went 16-0 in the foil Sunday, was an inspiration to all with his story of resilience in fighting the disease that almost took his life. 
“It’s the challenges that you’re presented with in life that really shape you and who you are I think it was monumental for everyone on the team to see that and to see how Teddy battled back,” Schirtz said. 
The Irish will take to the strips at home again for the Midwest conference champi­onships on March 6-7. 
Contact Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwi2@nd.edu 
NBA 
Orlando defeats Boston 96-89 


Associated Press 
BOSTON —The Orlando Magic needed less than 48 hours to go from a terrible third quarter to a terrific one. 
Vince Carter and Dwight Howard each scored nine points in that period to erase an 11-point halftime deficit, and the Magic went on to beat the Boston Celtics 96-89 on Sunday. 
“In a matter of three days, I’ve seen the worst quarter we’ve had since I’ve been here in three years and the best now in three years,” Orlando coach Stan Van Gundy said. 
On Friday night, the Magic blew a 21-point lead and lost to the Washington Wizards 92-91 after being outscored 39-17 in the third quarter. On Sunday, they outscored the Celtics 36-11 in that period. 
Orlando Magic coach Stan Van Gundy, center, yells instructions to his team in front of the bench in the fourth quarter of an NBA bas­ketball game against the Boston Celtics, Sunday, Feb. 7, 2010, in Boston. The Magic won 96-89. 
The Magic (34-17) moved into second place in the Eastern Conference, one game ahead of the Celtics (32-17). 
“We were upset about the way we played in the first half,” said Howard, who had 16 points and 13 rebounds. After that, “we got stops and then we came down and hit some shots. And after that, we just kept it rolling.” 
Carter had a game-high 20 points and scored nine during a 19-0 rally that began after Rajon Rondo’s(notes) 3-point­er gave the Celtics a 60-51 lead with 7:17 left in the third quarter — Boston’s fourth and final field goal of the period. That surge wiped out a 51-40 halftime deficit and led to a 76-62 margin after the third quarter. The Magic stayed in front by at least five points the rest of the way as the Celtics did too much freelancing. 
“We were getting what we deserved,” Boston coach Doc Rivers said, “I love our team on paper, but we tend to be front-runners. When we get a good lead we relax and teams take advantage of it and then you’re caught and it’s tough to turn it back on.” 
Rondo scored 17 points and Ray Allen added 14 for the Celtics. 
But the Magic put together an outstanding 12 minutes of offense and defense in the decisive quarter. The Celtics had seven turnovers and only four field goals in the period, while the Magic had 12 bas­kets and two turnovers. 
“One of the guys said, `We’re better than Orlando,’ and I said, `No, you’re not,”’ Rivers said. “They knocked you out of the playoffs last year. Orlando’s better than us right now. Atlanta’s better than us right now. L.A. (Lakers are) better than us right now.” 
The Celtics did make a late run with seven straight points that cut the lead to 94-89. But Rashard Lewis(notes) just beat the 24-second buzzer with a short driving shot that made it 96-89 with 18 seconds to go. 
“We did a good job just sticking with the game plan no matter what the score was,” Jameer Nelson said. 
The Celtics lost despite get­ting two important players back. Paul Pierce(notes), their leading scorer, returned after missing two games with a strain on the top of his left foot and scored 13 points. Key substitute Marquis Daniels sat out the previous 29 games fol­lowing surgery for a torn liga­ment in his left thumb and fin­ished with eight points. 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, February 8, 2010 
the second one, with 8.3 sec­onds left, Harangody fouled 
Jackson 

him, giving him the chance to continued from page 20 tie the game with a free throw. 
“It was just one of those over South Florida Sunday at things where he came over the Purcell Pavilion. and the initial reaction is to 
“It was just one of those try to get a piece of him,” days where no matter what, Harangody said. “That’s all on don’t doubt yourself,” Jackson me, that’s why I wanted to get said. the ball in my hands to seal 
Brey said he wasn’t sur-the deal for my team.” prised. He said he has never But he missed, and seen a better leader than Harangody’s subsequent free Jackson, who averaged 7.7 throws sealed the game. A 3­points per game before point attempt from Jones hit Sunday. the back of the rim but 
“He’s been running our bounced out as time expired. whole locker room since “[Harangody] was so down Christmas,” Brey said. after the game,” Brey said. “I 
The win improves Notre said, ‘Would you smile? You Dame’s record made the to 17-7, 6-5 in f r e e Big East play. throws.’” The Bulls fell to The Irish 
“Tory [Jackson] just 
15-8 and 5-6 in led by as the conference. fgured in the last many as 15 
In a game seven minutes, ‘I’ve in the first between the top half, but 
got to win the game for 
two scorers in entered half-the Big East, us.’” time with the Harangody and score tied at Bulls guard 34. In the 
Mike Brey 
Dominiq ue second half, 
Irish coach 
Jones, neither Howard one was stellar. scored six Harangody fin-straight ished with 19 points to give points and 15 rebounds and South Florida a 50-44 lead Jones had 10 points on 3-of-with 10:36 remaining. 17 shooting. Jones had aver-During a timeout, Brey got aged 29.4 points in his last into his players, chastising nine games and was the Big them for their disappointment East player of the week. In his at the score. absence, guard Chris Howard “We had the body language stepped up, scoring 23 points. of, ‘We should be up 10,’” 
Senior guard Ben Brey said. “Well, we’re not. Hansbrough scored 13 points Deal with it.” and hit 3-of-6 3-pointers. Brey told the team to start 
With the game tied at 58, driving with about eight min-Jackson drove the lane and utes left. The Irish went on a sank a layup, then was fouled six-point run to tie the game. while he hit a jumper a Down 52-50 with 6:10 minute later. He converted the remaining, junior forward 3-point play and Notre Dame Tyrone Nash hit four free led 63-58. throws in the next minute and 
Bulls forward Jarrid Famous a half to take a 54-52 lead, threw down two dunks to but Howard tied it again with close the gap to one, but on four minutes remaining. Then 
gave the Irish their four total points Sunday. Frilling and 
Doubles 

Krisik each improved their per-continued from page 20 sonal singles records to 6-0. McGaffigan’s defeat of 
McGaffigan and sophomore Shannon Mathews and senior Colleen Rielley each contributed to a doubles point win for the Irish. 
Singles victories from Frilling, Mathews, McGaffigan, Krisik, Ciobanu and Rielley led to Saturday’s sweep by the Irish. 
Though the Wolverines put up a good fight against Notre Dame Sunday, a few mishaps on the court by Michigan allowed the Irish to inch by with a score of 4­3. 
“We played a Michigan team that was incredible,” Scaringe said. “It’s always a good rivalry, they competed well, and I could-n’t be happier with their per­formance today.” 
Unlike Kansas, whom the Irish have not played in a few years, the Irish have played Michigan for many seasons in a row and could confidently make judg­ments of exactly what type of play they would be seeing on the court before the match began. 
“We know them really well,” Scaringe said. “It was good to play someone you’ve already seen.” 
Frilling and Krisik won the first doubles competition, but the other two doubles teams of Mathews and Rielley and Ciobanu and McGaffigan were both defeated as Michigan picked up the first point of the afternoon and the upper hand for the beginning of the match. 
Singles victories from Frilling, Mathews, McGaffigan and Krisik Michigan’s Rika Tatsuno brought plenty of excitement for the crowd that gathered in Ann Arbor Sunday. Going into the third set, McGaffigan was able to suppress Tatsuno’s ability to score and she clinched the win for the Irish. 

“[McGaffigan] tore through that set,” Scaringe said. “Sometimes freshmen get nerv­ous in that position, but she did a great job.” 
According to Scaringe, the coaching staff recognized a huge improvement from the girls since their loss against North Carolina last weekend. 
“[Louderback and I] noticed that they didn’t focus on their lack of play. They focused on doing the right things that they needed to do, and they played like themselves,” Scaringe said. 
Though the Irish won both of their events this weekend, the results showed a particular area of the game that needs attention to ensure that the rest of the season is a success. 
“We lost the doubles point twice now which is very unchar­acteristic of us,” Scaringe said. “We had only three times entire season last year, so to have lost it twice already this season means we’ll need to work on doubles.” 
Next up for the Irish is a meet against Illinois on Feb. 20 at Notre Dame’s Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
Jackson took over. 
“Tory just figured in the last seven minutes, ‘I’ve got to win the game for us,’” Brey said. 
South Florida’s defense recovered from its early lapse and stepped up in the second half. Notre Dame shot 56.5 percent from field goal range in the first half, but only 28.6 percent in the second. 
But the Irish made 13-of-15 free throws in the second half, while South Florida only made 4-of-9. The Bulls finished 10­for-20 on the day. 
“Had you told me we’d go 50 percent from the free throw line and Dominique Jones would have an off day and we still have a chance to win, I’d be surprised we were still in the game,” Bulls coach Stan Heath said. 
Notre Dame jumped on the Bulls early, scoring quickly. Hansbrough made a 3-pointer to extend Notre Dame’s lead to 25-10 with 8:23 left in the first half. But the Bulls, led by Famous, put together a 10­point run to pull within 25-20 with 5:03 left. 
Jones hit a 3-pointer to pull South Florida within one with 
2:01 remaining in the half, and Fitzpatrick gave the Bulls a 32-31 lead. It wouldn’t last long, because Hansbrough hit a 3-pointer, but two free throws from Jones made tied the score, and the half ended at 34-34. 
The win was Notre Dame’s second over a squad that had won four straight and beaten Georgetown and Pittsburgh. Harangody said the win on an off-day was important. 
“[It’s good] take two from them, especially when we’re not having our best day today,” Harangody said. 
Notre Dame will travel to Seton Hall Thursday. The game will start at 7 p.m. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 
Devils 
continued from page 20 
bles. At No. 2 doubles, the Blue Devils continued to rack up the points as Duke’s Dylan Arnould and David Holland took down sophomore Niall Fitzgerald and junior Stephen Havens 9-8 (12­
10) in an extended match. 
Notre Dame’s defeat carried over into the singles division as Duke continued working its way up with points as they swept all the matches. The Blue Devils took the lead 2-0 when No. 18 Watt was forced to withdraw from No. 1 singles in the second set of his match against No. 17 Cunha. Watt was defeated 7-5 in the first set. 
At No. 2 singles, Havens fell 6-4, 6-3 to Carleton after hav­ing the first set tied at 4-4 before falling behind. Stahl fell to Arnould 6-0, 6-3 at No. 3 singles, and freshman Blas Moros lost 7-5, 6-2 to Duke’s Jared Pinsky at No. 4 singles. 
Duke’s dominance continued in the No. 5 and No. 6 singles matches. Fitzgerald fell 7-5, 4­6, 1-0 (12-10) at No. 5 to Michel. Anderson and Holland closed out the singles competi­tion as Anderson dropped a tough three-set match 2-6, 6-1, 6-3. 
Sunday’s competition marks the 23rd meeting of the two teams with Duke now holding a 16-7 margin over Notre Dame. 
The Irish will next take on Michigan Saturday as they travel to Ann Arbor to face the No. 36 Wolverines. The match will be played at Michigan’s Varsity Tennis Center at 6 p.m. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 



Monday, February 8, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK 
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE 
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN 
T.I.N.D. 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Monday, February 8, 2010 page 20 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
No limit 
Freshman puts up career numbers in win 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
A career day for Skylar Diggins meant another win for No. 3 Notre Dame. 
The freshman guard achieved her first double-dou­ble as she led all players with 23 points, 10 rebounds and six assists Saturday as Notre Dame defeated Pittsburgh 86­
76. Her points and rebounds totals were new career highs, while she tied her previous high in assists. 
“I think [Skylar] is having a great year in general,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “I think she’s played well since the beginning of the season. She’s been our leading scorer all year long.” 

Diggins helped Notre Dame (21-1, 8-1 Big East) overcome rebounding troubles that have become a weakness in recent TOM LA/The Observer 
Freshman guard Skylar Diggins goes over a Pittsburgh defender for a shot Saturday during see DIGGINS/page 17 Notre Dame’s 86-76 win over the Panthers. Diggins scored 23 points in the game. 

MEN’S TENNIS 
No. 21 Blue Devils win in sweep 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Continuing their series of games on the road this week­end, the Irish fell 7-0 to Duke Sunday in Durham, N.C., after beating the No. 21 Blue Devils in the teams’ last three meet­ings. The loss moves No. 34 Notre Dame to 3-3 for its spring season. 
The Irish began the day with a win at No. 3 doubles as jun­iors David Anderson and Daniel Stahl took down the Blue Devils duo of Torsten Wiertoska and Alain Michel 8­
3. After that first win, however, the day went downhill for Notre Dame. 
Duke’s eighth-ranked pair of Henrique Cunha and Reid Carlton defeated sophomore Casey Watt and junior captain Tyler Davis 8-4 at No. 1 dou­
see DEVILS/page 18 


HOCKEY 

Irish drop to eighth in conference standings after losses 
By MICHAEL BLASCO Sports Writer  14-4-1 CCHA), falling all the way to eighth in the CCHA standings. The Irish fell 7-2  road trip against the Broncos, Bowling Green and rival Michigan, all ranked lower than  freshman goaltender Mike Johnson at the end of the first period. Senior Brad Phillips  ing an astounding 54 saves. The Broncos chased Johnson for a second straight evening, as the  
Friday night before a bizarre 4­ sixth in the CCHA. Notre Dame  fared little better, yielding four  freshman goaltender yielded  
If the Irish were playing with  1 loss Saturday to the Broncos.  hoped to fortify their hold on  goals  on  16  shots  as  the  three goals on eight shots.  
their backs against the wall  “I want to get to the bye week  fourth place,  as  the top four  Broncos cruised to a 7-2 win.  “I don’t know what it is,”  
before, they’re going to be in  and try to get people healthy,”  conference seeds receive a first- Junior defenseman Joe Lavin  Jackson said. “Mike Johnson  
full-on desperation mode from  Notre Dame head coach Jeff  round bye in the CCHA tourna­ and  freshman  center  Riley  wasn’t very good tonight. I did- 
here on out.  Jackson said. “I want to try to  ment, but tumbled to eighth  Sheahan tallied goals for the  n’t think  our  defense played  
Notre Dame (12-13-7, 8-10-6­ get  as  strong  as  we  can.  We  with the sweep. The Irish will  Irish.  very well tonight, and our for­ 
2 CCHA) dropped two crucial  need to start playing as a team  have a bye week to lick their  In the Saturday night show- wards made it more difficult for  
games over the weekend in a  again, getting ready to go into  wounds and refocus.  down, Notre Dame peppered  them by not doing a good job  
road  trip  against  bottom-the playoffs.”  Western Michigan jumped to  senior Western Michigan goal- taking care of the puck.”  
dwelling  conference  foe  The series against Western  a  3-0  lead  out  of  the  gate  tender Riley Gill with 55 shots  
Western Michigan (8-15-5, 4­ Michigan opened a five-game  Friday, chasing Notre Dame  in their 4-1 loss, with Gill notch- see POWER/page 17  

MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Jackson fuels close victory 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
In order to beat South Florida, Irish coach Mike Brey had to revert to middle school tactics. 
The tough South Florida sti­fled Notre Dame’s offense. So Brey told his teams to drive the ball. 
“Ram it in there like an AAU game,” he said. 
The “best candidate” for that, in Brey’s eyes? Tory Jackson. 
It was that mentality that helped Jackson score 18 points, including 14 in the sec­ond half and seven crucial points down the stretch, to lead Notre Dame to a 65-62 victory 
see JACKSON/page 18 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Road matches just what team needed 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
Though they dropped seven spots after their first loss of the season, the No. 13 Irish women’s tennis team redeemed themselves this weekend by defeating Kansas 7-0 and Michigan 4-3 on the road. 
“They bounced back really great after last weekend,” Irish assistant coach Julia Scaringe said. “We had a disappointment against North Carolina last weekend, but the girls bounced back against Kansas and Michigan.” 
Saturday, the Irish traveled to Lawrence, Kan., where Notre Dame snagged each of the event’s possible seven points. 
“This Kansas team we didn’t know a ton about, and they’re one of those teams that sneak up on you,” Scaringe said. “We hadn’t played them in a few years. They were a very compet­itive team with a lot of big hit­ters, but our girls reacted really well.” 
The Irish started strong by winning the doubles point with victories for each of the three doubles teams. No. 12 first dou­bles pair sophomore Kristy Frilling and senior Kali Krisik easily defeated their unranked Jayhawk opponents, 8-2. Doubles pairs of senior Cosmina Ciobanu and freshman Chrissie 
see DOUBLES/page 18 






