the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


NotreDameForumcanceled 
Planned speaker has scheduling conflicts; University will ‘revisit’ topic 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
This year’s Notre Dame Forum has been canceled because of a scheduling con­flict with a major speaker, the University announced Monday. 
University President Fr. John Jenkins started the Forum in 2005 when he took office to assemble “world leaders on campus in discus­sion of the leading issues of the day,” according to a 2008 press release. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said the admin­istration will not release the identity of the scheduled speaker or the planned topic at this time. 
“We are going to revisit the topic and speaker so we would prefer to keep that pri­vate at this point,” he said. 
The Forum, usually held in the fall, was delayed to the spring. 
Brown told The Observer in September that the forum was pushed back because “the spring semester is a better fit for the schedules of key pan­elists.” 
The University plans to host the Forum next fall, but Brown said it will not neces­sarily be the same topic and speaker planned for this year’s discussion. 
But that topic will be exam­ined on campus in some form, he said. 

“It won’t necessarily be next year’s Forum but at some point in the future at a forum we will take up that topic so we’re going to hold on to that idea for now and get back to it in the future,” Brown said. 
This spring’s Forum would have been the University’s fifth. Last fall, General Electric CEO Jeff Immelt, Colorado Gov. Bill Ritter, envi­ronmental activist Majora Carter and MIT Professor Ernest Moniz discussed sus­tainability issues. 
Other issues examined in 



Group considers bands forannualspringconcert 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
Talk of the upcoming Student Union Board (SUB) spring con­cert has been floating around campus due to a survey recent­ly sent around Facebook asking students to rank their prefer­ences of seven artists of differ­ent musical genres. 
MGMT, Girl Talk and Dropkick Murphys are some of the artists listed as possibilities for the concert. 
Mallory Davidson, co-director of programming, said SUB is trying to break from the Notre Dame tradition of mainstream rock concerts and diversify the types of bands they bring to campus. 
“SUB is certainly trying to bring an artist of a different genre,” junior Marie Wicht, co-programmer of concerts, said. “In past years we’ve had rock-type bands like Jack’s Mannequin, Cartel and OK Go … [and] we have also hosted rapper Lupe Fiasco and alter­native artist Citizen Cope.” 

Planning for the upcoming spring concert began last April, Wicht said. 
“We [first compiled] a long, long list of possible performers and genres,” she said. “The genres consisted of everything from country to rap, mash-up to coffeehouse rock and Irish rock to techno. After narrowing down to a few artists in each genre, we proceeded to look up agent information to inquire on pricing and availability.” 
Wicht and co-programmer of concerts Brian Hagerty are in charge of picking talent based 
see BANDS/page 6 



Students meet with provostsaboutprogram 

past Forums have included global health care, the role of religion in a plural world and immigration. 
Brown said the University will not try to find a replace­ment for this spring’s forum. 
“We think the Notre Dame Forum is such an important event so we didn’t want to scramble at the last minute to put together something not of the quality as the last have been,” he said. 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 

By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Writer 
Students who studied in Innsbruck, Austria last year met with University provosts Monday to discuss the recent decision to cancel the Innsbruck study abroad pro­gram. 
“Our main goals for the meeting were a) to obtain some sort of an explanation for why the Innsbruck pro­gram was cancelled and b) what were the rationaliza­tions,” senior Jessica Technow, one of the nine students who attended the meeting, said. 
Joe Buttigieg, assistant provost for International Studies, said Notre Dame’s old­est study abroad program had problems sustaining itself for the past 10 years, due to low enrollment numbers. 
When the program fell to seven students in the 2005­2006 year, and nine in 2006­2007, the University created a spring semester option in an attempt to increase enroll­ment, he said. 
“That basically saved it,” Buttigieg said. 
see INNSBRUCK/page 4 




SIBC offers global experience 

By LAUREN KNAUF 
News Writer 
The Student International Business Council (SIBC) will sponsor internships for up to 20 students this summer, allowing them to participate in humanitarian and business projects in locations around the globe, vice president and senior Maria Bufalino said. 
“Students looking to broaden their international experience as well as their basic business knowledge should apply to our internships,” Bufalino said of the programs, which send stu­dents to work in locations like Belize, Thailand, Germany, Italy and Washington, D.C. 
The internships range from teaching and working with students to more general busi­ness projects in firms over­seas. 
see SIBC/page 6 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Campus Life Council examines du Lac page 3  Men’s basketball feature page 20  Haiti benefit concert page 10  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Tuesday, January 26, 2010 

INSIDE COLUMN 

Asmall world 

Last weekend I took a walk down memory lane. No, I did not try to garner a comprehensive story of collegiate escapade from the wee hours of Saturday morning. Instead I went even further back to recesses my dim memories. I went back to ele­mentary school. 
That is right. At 20-years-old, I made my very first return to elementary and middle school. For me, this was all one place. And that Jess Shaffer means that a single building (and the lit-

Scene Editor
tle ones it held dur­ing school hours) got to see me progress through my adorable, precocious younger years to my shame­fully awkward and embarrassing tween years. I should make a small confession to give my return to primary school a bet­ter personal context. My awkward years far (far far) outnumbered and out­weighed my “cute little kid” years. 
If estimated, about 75 percent of my primary school experience was spent in glasses, headgear, braces and a plaid jumper. On top of this, I had minimal to no athletic ability and generally a saucy attitude (that proudly persists today). And then there was always the stereotyp­ical acne and general disregard for my appearance typical of a tomboy. At best, I was, shall we say, not king of the kids, and at worst a huge (maybe lovable) loser. 
Needless to say, my subconscious has diligently worked to suppress many a childhood memory. Orthodontia, contacts, a good sense of humor and just growing up took care of the rest. But last week­end, when I flew out to see my ankle-biter cousins’ basketball tournaments, my formative years came rushing back. 
I revisited days of my childhood I hadn’t remembered in a long time. And, better yet, got to see little kids in the same place I was 10 years ago, except that they were on basketball courts, which I certainly avoided at that same age. All confidence and swagger in the miniature, these kids played ball as if they were inside an NBA Jam game. Or like they thought they were. With gangly limbs and lacking con­trol of their bodies, kids would randomly fall out of plays, rolling off the court after tripping over themselves. Then again sweet 3-pointers and layups were all the more impressive because of the constant falling and flailing. In a word, it was bril­liant. And the tournament snack bar, packed with all of my childhood favorite candies, wasn’t bad either. 
In revisiting distant memories of mini-me, and seeing the new 10-year-old mod­els, I realized that not much has changed. I’m still stumbling around, but now in the world of internships and academia. And I still constantly comically trip over myself by not knowing my own powers or limita­tions. But then again, I get to do those things in heels now so sometimes when I fall there is a little more ankle twisting. And I am still undeniably quite a nerd though less of a tomboy. All in all, we grow into ourselves as we outgrow the shrunken geography of our childhoods. And when new me met old me, I realized that it is indeed a small world after all. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffe1@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: MILEY CYRUS: YEA OR NAY? 






Ryan Lion  David Grau  Kate Mullaney  Stephen Santay  Anne Robles  Elizabeth Andrews  
freshman  sophomore  junior  junior  freshman  sophomore  
Sorin  Knott  Cavanaugh  Alumni  Pasquerilla East  Pasquerilla West  
“She makes me  “Gorgeous. And  “She’s just  “Fetish? I just  “She looked  “Mmm ... no  
want to move  a lyrical genius  being ... Steve  like to dance  great at the  thanks.”  
my hips like  to boot.”  Santay’s  and sing.  Keenan Revue.”  
yeah.”  underage fetish  Nobody’s  
... that’s rockin’  perfect!”  

kicks.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer Muslim students and professors, including those in the Muslim Student Association, perform the evening prayer ritual (or “salat al-’isha”) during Campus Ministry’s “Prayer Around the World” series Monday night. 
OFFBEAT 
Priest accused of shoplifting butter, sofa cover 
WEST CITY, Ill. — A Roman Catholic priest was accused of shoplifting butter and a sofa cover at a Wal-Mart in southern Illinois. Police arrested 41-year-old the Rev. Steven Poole on Friday. He’s charged with two felony theft counts. Investigators said Poole failed to scan a $3.22 container of butter and a $60 sofa cover at a self-checkout. Poole then allegedly went to the store’s bedding section, picked up a memory foam mattress and switched the pricing bar code. That caused the $145 item to be scanned for $31. 
Allegedly, Poole also pos­sessed a stolen laptop com­puter power pack. 
Inmate loses court battle to play video game in jail 
MADISON, Wis. — A man serving life in prison for first-degree intentional homicide lost his legal bat­tle Monday to play Dungeons & Dragons behind bars. 
Kevin T. Singer filed a federal lawsuit against offi­cials at Wisconsin’s Waupun prison, arguing that a policy banning all Dungeons & Dragons mate­rial violated his free speech and due process rights. 
Prison officials instigated the Dungeons & Dragons ban among concerns that playing the game promoted gang-related activity and was a threat to security. Singer challenged the ban but the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on Monday upheld it as a rea­sonable policy. 
Dungeons & Dragons players create fictional characters and carry out their adventures, often working together as a group, with the help of complicated rules. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight wednesday Thursday 

IN BRIEF 
“Expanding the Boundaries: Selected Drawings from the Yvonne and Gabriel P. Weisberg Collection” will open at 10 a.m. today. This exhibit will be dis­played in the O’Shaughnessy Galleries West in the Snite Museum of Art. 
An exhibit titled “Markings by Koo Kyung Sook” will be held at 10 a.m. today in the Milly and Fritz Kaeser Mestrovic Studio Gallery in the Snite Museum of Art. 
Daily Mass will be held in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 
11:30 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. today. 
The Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering will offer “Flow and Turbulence in a Combined Wave-Current Coastal Ocean Bottom Boundary Layer” at 3:30 p.m. The seminar will be held in 138 DeBartolo Hall. 
A lecture titled “Between Barack and a Hard Place: Racism and White Denial in the Age of Obama” will be offered at 
7:30 p.m. tonight in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library. 
Dance Marathon 2010 Information Night will be held at 
7:30 p.m. tonight in 116 Debartolo Hall for students inter­ested in the Saint Mary’s Dance Marathon. 
Campus Ministry will present a lecture titled “What Catholics & Protestants Can Learn from One Another” at 8:30 p.m. tonight in the Cavanaugh Hall Chapel. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
friday saturday 

Atlanta 49 / 26 Boston 42 / 28 Chicago 25 / 18 Denver 47 / 27 Houston 69 / 51 Los Angeles 57 / 45 Minneapolis 13 / -3 New York 45 / 30 Philadelphia 46 / 29 Phoenix 68 / 48 Seattle 52 / 40 St. Louis 33 / 26 Tampa 66 / 44 Washington 47 / 31 

Tuesday, January 26, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 

Group examines du Lac 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Council 
(CLC) hosted Jeff Shoup, direc­tor of the Office of Residence Life and Housing and William Kirk, associate vice president for Residence Life at their meet­ing Monday, and heard possible revisions to policies and proce­dures in the student handbook du Lac. 
Suggestions for revisions per­tained to sexual assault, off-campus behavior and discipli­nary sanctions. 
“I do not have texts of the lan­guage to be reviewed,” Kirk said. “My purpose is to give some sense of the direction that the drafting and revision will take in this process.” 
While University Vice President for Student Affairs Fr. Mark Poorman has the final say on revisions, Kirk said CLC’s feedback is important. 
The University’s handling of sexual assault was discussed at the meeting. 
“That assault will result in suspension or dismissal from the University is not under review,” Kirk said. “Our direc­tion aims for a separate proce­dural setup in dealing with sex­ual assault because of the deli­cate nature of those allega­tions.” 
The discussion of these poli­cies is geared toward a new, more specific and “more user-friendly” policy, he said. 

This division of the reviews involves the Committee on Sexual Assault Prevention (CSAP). One of the considera­tions presented by CSAP was the role of mediation in the process of dealing with sexual assault victims. 
Student behavior outside of campus was also discussed at the meeting. 
“Some of the disciplinary poli­cies about off-campus behavior are not explicitly outlined,” Hall President’s Council co-chair Brendan McQueeny said. “Students are not always sure what to expect.” 
Shoup also cited the need to clarify the handbook’s descrip­tions of discipline and the appropriateness of certain sanc­tions such as community serv­ice. 
“Philosophically, we think of service as a way to give back to the community when in viola­tion of the community,” Shoup said. “But some see service as only for altruistic purposes and not appropriate for punish­ment.” 
The revisions also focus on building a clearer outline and structure within the actual handbook. 
“The vast majority of this book contains campus resources plus about 12 pages of rules and regulations,” Kirk said. “It is very possible for this informa­tion to be easily organized so students can be more willing to read and better understand the policies.” 
In order to make these rules more clear, the Office of Residence Life aims to realign the du Lac policies with actual University practice, citing pari­etal violations as an example. 
“We need to make sure that what we do and what we say in du Lac match,” Kirk said. 
Shoup reminded the Council that the Office of Residence Life and Housing does not function like a criminal court. 
“Our goal is for students to learn about how their behavior impacts themselves, others and the reputation of the University,” Shoup said. “In the disciplinary conference, we want to have a good conversation with the stu­dent about their behavior.” 
CLC will meet in smaller task forces to collect feedback after Monday’s meeting, and these ideas will be presented to Kirk at the Council’s Feb. 8 meeting. 
“We are not the ones to approve these policies, and we are not an advisory board,” stu­dent body president Grant Schmidt said. “But this is a great opportunity to provide our input.” 
Kirk said the administration established a completion dead­line for early June in order to be able to give hardcopies of the new edition to freshmen arriv­ing in August. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle@nd.edu 
Class council series hosts housing CEO 
By KATLYN SMITH 
News Writer 
CEO of housing company Pulte Homes Richard Dugas will deliver a presentation Tuesday evening, the second in a lecture series sponsored by the Junior Class Council. 
Junior Class Council president Caitlin Pulte said she envisioned the series as an academic compo­nent of her ticket’s platform. 
Originally intended for CEOs, the series now features profes­
sionals from a “We are all looking Pulte said. “The 
variety of fields. for internships. These CEOs can freely Tom Cole, a talk about what-
people are willing to
Chicago lawyer, ever they want 
was featured in help up with advice and not have to 
the series last on how to get into the do it in such a semester. professional man-
real world.” 
Pulte said the ner.” series offers mul-Dugas’ lecture, tiple benefits for Caitlin Pulte titled “Managing students, includ-Junior Class president through the interested and really care.” 
Currently, Pulte and her com­mittee are contacting Fred Smith, the CEO of FedEx. Approval by the Student Activities Office (SAO) and the scheduling limitation posed by the April 1 student government turnover date have challenged the progress of the CEO lecture series, she said. 
Nevertheless, CEOs have the opportunity to detail their experi­ences in a more relaxed environ­ment. 
“When I talked to Mr. Dugas, he 
hadn’t really been 
to many schools,” 
ing contact infor­mation from busi­ness leaders and recommenda­tions beyond the academic realm to real-world settings. 
“We are all looking for intern­ships,” Pulte said. “These people are willing to help us with advice on how to get into the real world.” 
Pulte also said she has seen pos­itive reactions from students. 
“The questions that are asked are intelligent,” Pulte said. “They show that the students are really Financial Crisis,” 
will detail his experience as CEO of Pulte Homes, a major U.S. home build­ing company. 
Pulte said this lecture is relevant for students in future manage­ment positions dealing with eco­nomic downturns, a situation that has especially impacted the hous­ing industry. 
Contact Katlyn Smith at ksmith33@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 26, 2010 
Priests discuss vocations with students at SMC 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s Campus Ministry invited students to participate in casual discus­sion with several priests Monday about the call to voca­tion. 
Students listened to the sto­ries of local priests’ trail to religious life. Fr. John Pearson of family and I began to under­stand something about how God is calling me to a life where I would take vows of poverty, chastity and obedi­ence and I would live with this community and I would help this community and they would help me to find our way to God,” Pearson said. 
Called “The Religious Life Roundtable,” the discussion 
offered stu­
dents the per-

C a m p u s Ministry, Fr. John Pa tri c k  “I picked up a vocation brochure. The  sp ect ive o f local religious as the y  
Riley, associate  more I read the more  re flec ted  o n  
pastor of St . Joseph Parish in South Bend and  something about it seemed to ft.”  t h ei r c al l to vocation. The R o u n d t a b l e  
D ea c o n  K evin  wa s  cre at ed  
Grove also of St.  Kevin Grove  by students in  
Jose ph vis it ed the C o ll ege to di s cuss their  Deacon St. Joseph Parish  collaboration with Campus Ministry. The  
paths  to  the  m e e t i n g s  
priesthood.  allow ed  s tu- 

“I think what happened to dents to participate in casual me is once I started it I just conversations with religious gradually gradually became about their calling to join the religious family. 
“In the seventh grade I came down to Notre Dame to Holy Cross Seminary which no longer stands and spent a week learning about the com­munity,” Pearson said. 
Pearson said he determined he wanted to become religious college. Riley graduated from Notre Dame and found his passion for service while a student. 
“One day in [St. Edward’s Hall], my roommates were going to go do a service proj­ect through the dorm at the Center for the Homeless. They 
at  a  young age  “I remember that I  were like ‘John,  
and said he was inspired by the sisters that lived in his communi­ just was inspired by this notion which the sisters gave which I  you s ho uld c o me along,’” Riley said. “So we go to t h e  
ty. “ I remember tha t I just wa s  still believe very much.”  Center for the Homeless and it was one of the  
inspired by this  greatest days of  
notion which the  Fr. John Pearson  my life. I could- 
s ist ers whi ch believ e  I  gave, still v ery  Saint Mary’s Campus Ministry  n’t believe it.” Riley also dis­cussed his serv­ 
much,  some- ice  work  in  

times, you’re called to live the Phoenix, Ariz., with the group. gospel in a very specific way,” Grove said that his first call-Pearson said. ing occurred in the third 
Riley also gave his account grade, though he did not agree of his calling to the priesthood. to his calling until much later. He said he did not think of “In that instance in third joining religious life until after grade we were going around 


Innsbruck 
continued from page 1 
The numbers then rose in the following years to around 15, the minimum threshold to keep the program viable. 
But for the 2010-11 school year, only two students applied for the year, and nine applied for the spring semester, he said. 
“We noticed that the numbers were so low. We said my good­ness, not only have we had a problem with the program for quite a substantial number of years, but now its reached the point where it is almost impos­sible to keep it going,” Buttigieg said. 
Students in Innbruck usually take classes exclusively with Notre Dame students and taught by Notre Dame hired faculty. This design creates a need for a certain number of students each year to make the program financially feasible, associate provost Dennis Jacobs said. 
“We would have needed to hire five faculty to teach two students,” Jacobs said. 
Buttigieg said low enrollment numbers reflected a shift towards the semester, instead of a year, abroad and Notre Dame’s growing number of study abroad locations. 
“Since the program started, the landscape of international study has changed dramatically. We have 36 programs. Students are going to find more and more programs that address directly what they’re interested in,” he said. “It’s not as if we have in any way, privileged the program in Timbucktoo over the program in Innsbruck.” 
Jacobs said the Innsbruck program’s problem with enroll­ment was also partly due to the way its curriculum was mod­eled. 
“Innsbruck has an on-site director and has faculty teach Notre Dame students in an exclusive environment,” Jacobs said. “On the opposite end of the spectrum, students would take their classes at a universi­ty, like Oxford or something like that.” 
The disadvantage of the Innsbruck program was that it and talking about what we wanted to do and I mentioned that I wanted to be a priest,” Grove said. 
Grove said that though he thought about the prospect of becoming a priest in the third grade, he kept pushing the thought from his mind. It was­n’t until he visited the Holy Cross Congregation that he decided. 
“Finally I went on a gradu­ate school tour … and the last place I stopped on my tour was to visit with some faculty over at Notre Dame and just went to a daily mass while I was there. I heard a great homily about Holy Cross. I picked up the vocation brochure,” Grove said. “The more I read the more some­thing about it seemed to fit.” 
The discussion Monday night ended with a song and collec­tive prayer. The next discus­sion will be held on Feb. 22. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
could not absorb the fluctua­tions in enrollment, because it did not exist as a part of a larg­er group, he said. 
Technow said in an ideal world, the students would like to see the Innsbruck program be reinstated. For now, they simply asked that the Innsbruck program not be ruled out in the future, and that the cancella­tion of the Innsbruck program be used as a learning experi­ence. 
Buttigieg said he has already begun evaluating what went wrong in the Innsbruck pro­gram so he can avoid it in the future. 
“We should have insisted much, much, much earlier on that a much higher percentage of the students’ courses being taken at the University because that was the soft underbelly of this whole thing,” he said. 
He added, “you’ve got to find a way where the survival of the program is not dependent of the oscillation of the students going into it.” 
Buttigieg also asked the stu­dents to think about qualities of the Innsbruck program that were most important to them, and said he would be receptive to their suggestions. 
“What is really fruitful is to distill in simple, straightforward articulation, what is the ideal program for German language? What is it that, in your experi­ence mattered most?” he said. 
Both parties said they were pleased with how the meeting went. 
“I think that was a great dis­cussion,” Jacobs said. “I think it was very helpful and construc­tive.” 
Though the Innsbruck pro­gram remains discontinued, Technow said she felt the stu­dents succeeded in opening up the lines of communication with the University, she said. 
“We were definitely very pleasantly surprised with the reception that we received. We felt that they definitely listened to use, respected what we had to say and gave us a voice,” she said. “I think that we’re moving in the right direction. No one is really happy with the decision and what happened, but I think that we’re more optimistic about having some sort of input in the future.” 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at 
smervosh@nd.edu 


World & Nation 
Tuesday, January 26, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Haiti in need of more tent cities 
PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti — The collapse of much of Haiti’s capital has a large part of the nation struggling just to find a place to sleep. 
As many as 1 million people — one person in nine across the entire country — need to find new shelter, the United Nations estimates, and there are too few tents, let alone safe buildings, to put them in. 
That leaves about 700,000 other people living on the streets around Porrt-au-Prince under whatever they can salvage. In the case of Jean Anthony’s family, that’s a blue plastic tarpaulin for a ceiling and a faded pink sheet with a floral print border for two walls. 
“I’m not sure what you’d call it, but it’s much more than terrible,” said Anthony, the 60-year­old owner of a collapsed restaurant. 
Jet crashes in sea near Lebanon 
BEIRUT — The first sign of trouble was a flash of light on the horizon Monday — and then wit­nesses said the Boeing 737 tumbled like “fire falling down from the sky” into the stormy Mediterranean Sea. 
All 90 aboard were feared dead in the pre­dawn crash. Lebanon’s leaders ruled out terror­ism while investigators collected witness accounts in hopes they could provide clues. Aviation experts cautioned it was too early to know what brought down the Ethiopian Airlines jet — particularly without the black boxes. 
Many people were giving DNA samples to help identify the remains of their loved ones; one man identified his 3-year-old nephew by the boy’s overalls. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Video game banned from inmate 
MADISON, Wis. — A man serving life in prison for first-degree intentional homicide lost his legal battle Monday to play Dungeons & Dragons behind bars. 
Kevin T. Singer filed a federal lawsuit against officials at Wisconsin’s Waupun prison, arguing that a policy banning all Dungeons & Dragons material violated his free speech and due process rights. 
Prison officials instigated the Dungeons & Dragons ban among concerns that playing the game promoted gang-related activity and was a threat to security. Singer challenged the ban but the 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals on Monday upheld it as a reasonable policy. 
Dungeons & Dragons players create fictional characters and carry out their adventures, often working together as a group, with the help of complicated rules. 
Damaged Picasso painting restored 
NEW YORK — A Picasso painting damaged when a woman lost her balance and fell on the canvas last week will be repaired in time for an exhibition of the artist’s works in April, the Metropolitan Museum of Art said Monday. 
“The Actor,” a painting from Picasso’s rose peri­od, will be restored at the museum’s conservation laboratory, the Met said. 
The accident has also led museum director Thomas P. Campbell to request a review of rele­vant policies and procedures, spokeswoman Elyse Topalian said. 
The museum described the damage as an irregular 6-inch tear to the lower right-hand cor­ner of the painting. Conservation and curatorial experts “fully expect” that the restoration “will be unobtrusive,” the museum said in a statement. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Voter ID law faces Supreme Court 
INDIANAPOLIS — The Indiana Supreme Court will decide the fate of the state law requiring government-issued photo identifica­tion for voters. 
The court announced Monday that it would hear an appeal of a 2009 lower court ruling that overturned the voter ID law because it required those who vote in person to verify their identities but not those who vote by mail. 
The League of Women Voters argued the law violated the Indiana Constitution by imposing a new requirement on only some voters. The state appeals court agreed with those argu­ments in its 3-0 decision. 
Boats collide causing oil spill 
Quick response from authorities helps divert environmental disaster in Texas 
Associated Press  
DALLAS — The worst  
Texas oil spill in more than  
15 years was contained  
Monday, and authorities  
credit a massive emergency  
response with averting an  
environmental disaster.  
About 462,000 gallons of  
oil spilled when an 800-foot  
tanker headed for an  
Exxon Mobil Corp. refinery  
in Beaumont collided  
Saturday with a vessel  
pushing two barges. As of  
Monday, roughly 220,000  
gallons of oil had evaporat­ 
ed, dispersed or been  
recovered, the U.S. Coast  
Guard said.  
No injuries have been  
reported. Port Arthur resi­ 
dents were evacuated after  
the spill while officials test­ 
ed the air quality. So far  
only two oil-covered birds  
have been reported; one of  
them was captured and  
cleaned up, and the other  
flew away.  
More than 60 vessels and  
550 people from the Coast  
Guard, the state, the ship­ 
ping company and others  
responded to the spill.  
More than 11 miles worth  
of the plastic walls known  
as booms are floating AP  
around the spill, and 27 Oil spill specialists use booms, skimmers and absorbent cloths to clean up along the  
skimmer boats were Pleasure Island coastline Monday in Port Arthur, Texas.  
removing the oil floating on  
the water.  Port Arthur, about 90 miles  street with their coats over  people who are exposed to  
“This response has  east of Houston. The estu­ their faces to leave because  the emissions.”  
helped contain this oil and  aries and other delicate  it was dangerous.  The shipping channel  
keep it from becoming a  environments are crucial  “The fumes were just  was closed Monday, and it  
catastrophe,” said Texas  for fish, shrimp and “every­ unbearable,” he said. “Our  was unclear when it would  
General Land Office  thing that lives in the Gulf,”  main concern is the num­ reopen, the Coast Guard  
spokesman Jim Suydam.  Suydam said.  ber of people who might  said. Coast Guard Petty  
“Had this oil escaped the  Environmental watch- have been impacted over  Officer Larry Chambers  
ship channel, it could have  dogs were encouraged by  the long term by the  said there are currently 13  
been a catastrophe.”  the speedy response but  fumes.”  vessels waiting offshore to  
It was the largest spill in  concerned about what air  The evacuation was lifted  get into the waterway and  
Texas since 1990, when a  pollutants people nearby  Saturday night. The Texas  11 waiting to get out. He  
Norwegian tanker spilled  were exposed to.  Commission on  said about a dozen tankers  
4.3 million gallons about 60  Hilton Kelley, a Port  Environmental Quality was  move through the water- 
miles off Galveston. The  Arthur environmental  monitoring the air and  way each day.  
state typically has about  activist and head of the  water quality and said  Major refineries have  
800 spills a year, but nearly  group Community In-Power  there were no reports of  been in this small area of  
all involve less than one  and Development  problems with drinking  the Gulf Coast since 1901,  
barrel, according to the  Association, said he was  water or wastewater.  shortly after the discovery  
Texas General Land Office.  near the water Saturday  “We’ve learned a lot over  in nearby Beaumont of  
Two sensitive wildlife  during the evacuation. He  the years how to do this  Spindletop, which at the  
areas near the spill remain  said the smell was so over- right,” said Tom “Smitty”  time was the world’s most  
unaffected by it. The spill is  powering that he had to  Smith of the activist group  productive oil field, said  
mostly contained in a 2­ put on a respirator mask,  Public Citizen. “The down- Joe Pratt, an oil industry  
mile stretch of the Sabine  and that he told two  sides, of course, are the  historian at the University  
Neches Waterway near  women walking down the  long-term impacts of the  of Houston.  

IRAQ 
Western journalists killed by suicide bomber 
announced it had hanged Saddam Resorts Worldwide Inc. — owners of 
Associated Press 
Hussein’s notorious henchman the Sheraton brand — pulled out of the 
BAGHDAD — Suicide bombers struck “Chemical Ali” and gave rise to specu-hotel years ago. in quick succession Monday at three lation about possible links to the Two other blasts followed minutes Baghdad hotels favored by Western attacks. later, striking near the Babylon Hotel journalists in well-planned assaults that The first explosion struck near the and Hamra Hotel, which is popular killed at least 37 people and wounded Sheraton Hotel, along the Abu Nawas with Western journalists and foreign more than 100. esplanade across the Tigris River from security contractors 
The attacks were another blow to an the Green Zone. The force of the blast Militants in business suits walking Iraqi government already struggling to toppled a row of 10-foot, 7-ton concrete alongside a suicide car bomb opened answer for security lapses that have blast walls protecting the site, tore cars fire on a private security checkpoint at allowed bombers to carry out massive apart and damaged a number of other the Hamra, police and guards said. The attacks in the heart of the Iraqi capital buildings. hotel and the compound in which it is since August, raising serious questions Twisted metal and shards of glass lit-located is home to the Baghdad offices about the country’s stability ahead of tered the lawns and courtyards of the of several Western news organizations, the March 7 parliamentary elections. popular fish restaurants along the river. including The Washington Post, 
The blasts were launched over a span Although known in Baghdad as the McClatchy Newspapers, NBC and The of 15 minutes, shortly before Iraq Sheraton Ishtar, Starwood Hotels & Los Angeles Times. 

page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 26, 2010 

Bands 
continued from page 1 
on student preferences, contact­ing agents and working to deter­mine possible groups that will stay within SUB’s allocated budget. 
Wicht said one of the biggest difficulties of planning the con­cert is finding just one or two artists that would appeal to the wide majority of students at Notre Dame. She said even with­in SUB’s concert planning com­mittee, it is difficult to get every­one to agree on a single artist or even genre of music. 
“It is because of this that we released the recent SUB concert survey requesting that students rank their preferences … based on genre and an artist,” Wicht said. “Thanks to the many responses to this survey, we are now basing our final decisions well known with Notre Dame students. In second place I would vote for Dropkick Murphys. A rowdy Irish band will draw a crowd at Notre Dame.” 
The survey also asks students if they would be willing to pay $20 for a ticket to this year’s SUB concert, as opposed to the $15 that tickets cost in previous years. 
“Traditionally [tickets have] been $15 and haven’t been higher,” Davidson said. “We’re trying to figure out if students would pay the five extra dollars, but we’re going to shoot for the 15.” 
Davidson said the artists’ prices have been on the rise over the last few years, but SUB’s budget has remained stat­ic, which is why ticket prices may need to be adjusted. 
“We are really trying to find the best act available for the 
money we have,” 
Hagerty said. 

on these student “We are really trying “While it would preferences.” be wonderful to 
to fnd the best act
Kid Cudi, Girl be able to book Talk, MGMT, available for the huge acts like Dropkick money we have.” Taylor Swift, Jay-Murphys, Zac Z or Dave Brown Band, Matthews Band, 
Brian Hagerty 
V a m p i r e there isn’t nearly Weekend and co-programmer of concerts enough money in 
Brett Dennen SUB our budget to 
are the artists included in the survey. Many students have expressed excitement about the proposed artists, Wicht said. 
“I’d love to see Kid Cudi or Dropkick Murphys,” junior Colleen Coleman said. “Girl Talk would be awesome as well, but I would enjoy seeing an individual or a group actually perform rather than someone who is basically a DJ. Don’t get me wrong, I love Girl Talk, but experiencing an act performing live is such a great experience.” 
Junior Casey Cockerham said he thinks MGMT is most popular on campus out of the seven sug­gested acts. 
“I think MGMT would be the best show,” he said. “They are make that hap­
pen. So we have to try to find the best acts at the right prices who will appeal to the most amount of students.” 
The concert will be held in Stepan Center, most likely towards the end of the semester, Davidson said. 
“We aren’t sure of [who’s com­ing] yet because of artist avail­ability and budget constraints,” she said. “We’re trying to get things coming along here, and from there it just depends on how long the contracts take to get approved by the agents. … We’re hoping to [let the student body know] really soon.” 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 
SIBC 
continued from page 1 
Although the internships are generally unpaid, SIBC covers the costs of travel, documenta­tion and vaccinations. 
“In some instances, the employer will provide a stipend or some form of payment as well as housing to the student,” Bufalino said. 
Summer internships are often fiercely competitive, and sopho­more John Goedert, vice presi­dent of intern­ships for SIBC, 
said the 2010 “This summer will dren’s literacy programs will be in Central 
probably be above the 
no different. America,” he 
norm in terms of
“This summer said. will probably be competitiveness James above the norm because of the Pappas, a junior in terms of com-finance major, 
positions we’re
petitiveness also participat­because of the offering and the state ed in an intern-
positions we’re of the economy.” ship through 
offering and the SIBC. Pappas state of the helped Notre 
John Goedert 
economy,” Dame alumniin Goedert said. vice president of internships Ghana with 
He predicted SIBC efforts to start a 
pated in SIBC programs in Thailand and Belize. He said the internships are “great opportunities to get your feet off the ground and develop the most basic business skills, which involve interacting with other people.” 
Brownschidle worked for a printing company in Belize in the summer of 2008. He said his experience demonstrated how the SIBC’s internships use business and commerce to pro­mote peace and prosperity. 
“The books were sold at extremely low prices in the 
hopes of 
advancing chil­
SIBC’s new opportunities, including a sports marketing position in Germany and non­profit management in Washington D.C, will garner much attention this year. 
“These are experiences that are difficult to find elsewhere,” Goedert said. “What the intern gets out of a position depends completely on where they are.” 
Matthew Brownschidle, a sen­ior finance major, has partici­dried fruit busi­
ness. 
“There are so many challeng­ing dimensions of international business, like dealing with cul­tural differences, that an inter­national internship allows stu­dents to understand and mas­ter,” he said. 
Pappas, like Brownschidle, encountered a humanitarian element in his work abroad. The company that he helped launch will be an important source of jobs in an impover­ished country, he said. 
“Everyone that I talked to in Ghana was very excited about the prospect of our company coming in and bringing jobs,” Pappas said. 
For its internships, SIBC seeks students of all areas of study who have an interest in interna­tional business. Goedert said the ideal interns are students “who will be passionate about what they will be doing.” 
Applicant reviewers particu­larly favor those who have shown their dedication through participation in previous proj­ects in SIBC, he said. 
SIBC also offers a variety of projects that involve collabora­tion with major corporations. They enable students to think practically, beyond what is sim­ply taught in the classroom, Bufalino said. 
Bufalino and Goedert empha­sized the importance of the organization’s mission state­ment, “Peace Through Commerce,” in its activities, especially the internships. 
“Our interns come back with a better grasp of what interna­tional commerce is and how important it can be to our mis­sion of peace,” Goedert said. 
Contact Lauren Knauf at lknauf@nd.edu 


The Observer 
Business

Tuesday, January 26, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Airlines abandon fare increases 
DALLAS — Major U.S. airlines have dropped an effort to raise fares by up to $16 a roundtrip after some carriers resisted the increase. 
American Airlines confirmed on Monday that it had dropped a price hike from last week. American spokesman Tim Smith said Delta had pulled the increase even before American did, and Continental and United also retreated. 
“We can now declare the first domestic airfare hike of 2010 ... a failed attempt,” said Rick Seaney, CEO of travel Web site Farecompare.com. 
Air fare increases can be tricky. They can fall apart if one or two airlines refuse to go along or don’t match on every route, because other carriers don’t want to risk losing customers by charging more for the same trip. 
Ford to add jobs in Chicago 
DETROIT — Ford Motor Co. will add 1,200 jobs at its Chicago assembly plant later this year to build the new Explorer sport utility vehicle, a person briefed on the matter said Monday. 
The company and Illinois Gov. Pat Quinn are scheduled to make the announcement on Tuesday at the factory, but Quinn told reporters in Chicago on Monday that 1,200 new jobs were coming to Illinois. 
“Tomorrow, in one day, we’re going to get 1,200 new jobs for Illinois,” Quinn said at a breakfast event that was unrelated to the Ford announcement. 
The person briefed on the announcement said some of the workers will be from Ford’s pool of employees laid off at other factories. The person did not want to be identified because the announcement has not been made. 
The new Explorer will be built on the same frame as the Taurus sedan, which is built at the Chicago plant. 
Ford has long had plans to base the once-popular Explorer on a car rather than truck frame. The company says the new one will have SUV-like towing and hauling capacity, but will be more maneuverable and fuel efficient than its predecessor. 
Apple Inc. sees best quarter ever 
iPhone replacing iPod sales as Apple continues to see growth in revenue 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Apple Inc. rocketed to its most profitable quarter ever over the holidays, as huge sales of the iPhone and Macintosh computers led to a nearly 50 percent jump in net income. 
The company offered no clues about what it plans to unveil Wednesday in San Francisco, although ana­lysts expect the new prod­uct to be a tablet-style computer. CEO Steve Jobs indicated that investors should expect a significant event. 
“The new products we are planning to release this year are very strong, start­ing this week with a major new product that we’re really excited about,” Jobs said in a statement. 
Apple also offered a prof­it and revenue forecast above Wall Street forecasts. 
The iPhone’s rollout in several major new mar­kets, including China and South Korea, helped Apple double sales of the hot phone. 
Apple’s numbers also got a boost from an accounting change. Apple started put­ting iPhone revenue and profit on its books when the gadget is sold, rather than deferring those Apple’s report reflected features built in, has grown numbers, he is basing his results over the presumed the company’s ability to in popularity. opinion on the number of life of the device. allure shoppers without Shaw Wu, an analyst for iPhones, Macs and iPods 
Apple said Monday it deep cuts to its premium Kaufman Bros., was Apple sold in the quarter, earned $3.4 billion, or prices. Apple’s reputation expecting Apple to sell and on the nearly $6 billion $3.67 per share, in the lat-as a luxury brand hasn’t about 800,000 more increase in Apple’s cash est quarter, which ended dented its ability to put up iPhones in the quarter. He stockpile. Dec. 26. In the same period better numbers even as attributed the lower num-“That number looked of 2008, had the same many computer buyers ber to possible component pretty solid,” Wu said. accounting standards been gravitate toward cheaper shortages. Apple said it expects the in place, it would have had options. Apple didn’t tell Wall current quarter, the second net income of $2.3 billion, Apple sold 8.7 million Street analysts in advance in its fiscal year, to yield or $2.50 per share. iPhones in the quarter, that it would make the earnings of $2.06 to $2.18 
Revenue was $15.7 bil-double what it sold in the accounting switch in the per share, with revenue of lion, a 32 percent jump same period the year first quarter. That may $11.0 billion to $11.4 bil­from $11.9 billion in the before. And its sales of have left some investors lion. same period last year. Macintosh computers rose scratching their heads Analysts did not factor Apple’s chief financial offi-33 percent. when the numbers landed. the accounting change into cer, Peter Oppenheimer, But the 21 million iPods In extended trading, the their estimates for the cur-said on a conference call it sold marked an 8 percent shares edged up less than 1 rent quarter. On average, that half of the company’s decline. Although Apple percent, after gaining they had been predicting revenue growth could be refreshed its iPod Nano $5.32, 2.7 percent, to end profit of $1.77 per share attributed to the account-with new colors and a the regular session at and revenue of $10.4 bil­ing change, but Apple was video camera last fall, sales $203.07. lion in the current quarter, silent on the change’s of the iPod have suffered as Wu said that until he according to Thomson effects on net income. the iPhone, which has iPod goes back to re-crunch the Reuters. 

Controversy surrounds planned refinery 
Associated Press lawsuit in state court arguing that the approving a permit for the refinery. 
permit should be thrown out because it “If this doesn’t require an environ-
PIERRE, S.D. — Three groups does not address some environmental mental impact statement, what project opposed to a $10 billion oil refinery issues. ever would?” Cable said. planned for southeastern South Dakota Hyperion filed its own court appeal, A spokesman for Hyperion did not have asked a judge to overturn a state which asks that the board’s decision on return a phone call seeking comment board’s decision to grant the project an a carbon monoxide limit be overturned. Monday. air quality permit. Circuit Judge Mark Barnett of Pierre The refinery would be located north 
The Board of Minerals and has consolidated the two appeals to be of Elk Point. It would process 400,000 Environment granted the permit in heard as one case. After further written barrels of Canadian tar sands crude oil August after finding that Hyperion arguments are filed, a hearing is sched-each day into low-sulfur gasoline, Resources, based in Dallas, had met the uled for June 23 in Pierre. diesel, jet fuel and liquid petroleum gas. requirements set in state laws and Ed Cable of Save Union County said The project would include a power rules. Board members endorsed the Monday that opponents believe the plant that produces electricity for the state Environment Department’s rec-state board has not complied with the refinery. It would use a byproduct of the ommendation to issue the permit for federal Clean Air Act. Both the process refinery process, solid petroleum coke, what would be the first new U.S. oil and the information used by the board which would be turned into gas and refinery built since 1976. were flawed, he said. burned to produce electrical power. 
The Sierra Club and local groups Cable said the Board of Minerals and The company says the gasification Save Union County and Citizens Environment also should have required would allow the removal of more pollu-Opposed to Oil Pollution have filed a a full environmental study before tants. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 8 Tuesday, January 26, 2010 
THE OBSERVER Barack’s choice 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse 
A year ago, our newly-inaugurated President gave his address to a nation eager for change. Then just a week ago, the people of Massachusetts voted for change, albeit one the Democrats did not anticipate. The seat held by Sen. Ted Kennedy for nearly half a cen­tury in a state that has not elected a Republican sena­tor since 1972 will now be filled by a Republican by the name of Scott 

Christie 
Brown. 
Pesavento 
Yes, the same Scott Brown 
Right Winging 
whom Keith 
It
Olbermann called “an irresponsible, homophobic, racist, reactionary, ex-nude model, tea-bagging supporter of violence against women and against politicians with whom he disagrees.” He did apologize later though … for leaving out “sexist.” 
As my friend Wally Forman observed, “If Olbermann is right, people must real­ly hate Obama.” 
Or at least his policies. 
To be sure, Brown is no conservative, at least on social issues. Yet he cam­paigned on a straightforward platform that included conservative positions on economic policy and national security. Most significantly, he has vowed to be the 41st vote against Democratic health care legislation that until last Tuesday was steamrolling its way through Congress. 
Like their fellow voters in New Jersey and Virginia demonstrated last November, Massachusetts residents are not pleased with the way Democrats are handling the country. Obama may have successfully kept his post-partisan prag­matist mask in place during the cam­paign, but lately that mask is slipping from his face to reveal the liberal ideo­logue underneath. And Americans are not happy with what they see. 
Some may take issue with the claim that Obama is no fair-minded pragma­tist, declaring that Democratic leaders in Congress are the ones refusing to act in a bipartisan manner. Between the closed-door meetings to craft legislation and the labeling of conservative Americans as redneck, gun-toting, racist, sexist, Bible-thumping, Nazi-sym­pathizing tea-baggers, it becomes diffi­cult for anyone, even The Messiah, to reach out to Republicans. 
This assertion, however, leaves the president open to charges of ama­teurism and incompetent leadership for allowing members of his party to hijack his agenda. Obama the candidate prom­ised to rid Washington of “the same par­tisanship and pettiness and immaturity that has poisoned our politics for so long;” as president, he appears to be enabling it. He stood by idly as Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid handed out kickbacks like candy to senators in exchange for votes in favor of health care legislation. He twiddled his thumbs when Speaker of the House Nancy Pelosi accused townhall protestors of carrying swastikas. He even allowed his own administration to pick petty fights with Rush Limbaugh and Fox News. 
That’s not to say that Obama has man­aged to stay completely above the fray. Recently, the president himself bowed to special interest pressure by giving union members a five-year exemption from the tax on health insurance that Democrats were planning to impose on over 90 per­cent of the labor force in order to pay for their health care package. 
Moreover, despite having held office for over a year, Obama continues to recycle that same tired response to criti­cism again and again: 
“The same thing that swept Scott Brown into office swept me into office. People are angry and they are frustrat­ed. Not just because of what’s happened in the last year or two years, but what’s happened over the last eight years.” 
Translation: it’s all Bush’s fault! 
Now Obama is correct when he says Americans are angry. However, his assessment of the source of their anger is not quite as accurate. Americans feel betrayed by a president who vowed to bring bipartisanship to Washington but has instead tried to ram his legislation through Congress without substantial Republican support. His definition of “bipartisanship” is looking more and more like Bush’s “take it or leave it” approach with each passing day. Real bipartisanship involves the willingness to compromise, and so far the Democrats have not demonstrated such willingness. In fact, Obama appears to be much more comfortable offering an extended hand to the clenched fists of countries that want to destroy us than to American politicians on the other side of the aisle. 
But the main reason behind American anger, to borrow a phrase from a presi­dent who became a real pragmatist, is “the economy, stupid.” Instead of the pragmatism we were promised, Obama and the Democrats have convinced themselves that the stimulus package will get the economy back on track, leaving them free to pursue their anti-capitalist, anti-growth, ideological poli­cies like cap-and-trade, tax increases and the expansion of government health care coverage (which will cover more people, cost less, and will magically not be rationed!). Yet the economy, if it is improving, is still in a fragile state. Americans are fearful that more taxing and spending will short-circuit the recovery and plunge us into another recession. 
The most transparent indicator of Obama’s lack of pragmatism and bipar­tisanship may be yet to come, depending largely on how Obama and his party react to the Massachusetts election. If they pretend Brown’s win was nothing but a minor setback and continue push­ing their liberal agenda, they risk politi­cal suicide in exchange for adherence to ideology. But if they step back and try to repair the partisan divide through com­promise and pay attention to economic recovery, they may be able to hold onto the pragmatist label, though at the expense of implementing liberal policies. 
Christie Pesavento is a senior who is majoring in political science and sociology. She can be reached at cpesaven@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
advertisements based on content. 

The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of EDITORIAL CARTOON the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Madeline Buckley Michael Bryan Megan Doyle Michael Blasco Nikki Taylor Chris Allen 
Graphics Scene “You may be disappointed if you Blair Chemidlin Maija Gustin fail, but you are doomed if youdon't try.” 
Viewpoint 
Lauren 

Beverly Sills Brauweiler U.S. opera singer 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Love is the triumph of imaginationover intelligence.” 
H. L. Mencken 
U.S. journalist 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Tuesday, January 26, 2010 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Job well done 
I have delivered The Observer for more than a decade. The Observer is going on 50 years old. Students have worked hard to put out one of the finest daily newspapers. Many people, not all in the Notre Dame community, have told me this. I am an independent contractor, I don’t work for Notre Dame or The Observer, but have worked with the students long enough to know the cartoon is not what The Observer is about. 
The Observer is about putting out a paper that all of its loyal staff can be proud of. The students work from 8 p.m. until 4 a.m. five nights a week and continue with their class work with a smile. 
The Observer consists of 10,000 copies per day and on football Fridays, 15,000. They keep all students posted on all sports and news on and off campus day in and day out. The students have the finest work ethics I have ever seen. I am truly proud to be of serv­ice to such a fine group of students. The have implemented many new tools to better your newspaper. 
Last month, a Business Today was to be inserted in the paper. The Observer staff found some things that were not representa­tive of The Observer’s policy so it was not run. This is one of many. Every insert is sent to the printer, and then I bring them back so they can be edited before they are inserted. 
I have made mistakes in my life and I only hope none of them have hurt anyone. I am quite sure none of The Observer staff meant to hurt anyone. Having gone to class all day and then having to edit 20-plus pages of newspaper at night, anyone could easily miss something. Give these students credit for the wonderful job they do. 
My prayers go out to the staff of The Observer for all the hate calls and e-mails they have been receiving. It would be much nicer to compliment them for all their hard work and dedication. 
I want to thank and compliment you for the very fine job you do. 
Jack Radican 
Mishawaka, Ind. Jan. 19 

Wearin’ o’ the green 
In response to the letter “Keep ‘The Shirt’ kelly-green” by Jim Blase (Jan. 25), I agree that Notre Dame Stadium would be much more intim­idating for our opponents and awe-inspiring for our football team if we had one single color to rally behind rather than the current mixture that fills the stands. The use of a single color has a unifying effect that definitely makes a difference on the field. Home games at places like Michigan (boo) or Penn State look different, sound differ­ent, and feel different partially because of the solid waves of Maize or White that dominate their stadiums. While neither venue can compare to the tradition, the purity, and the echoes of Notre Dame Stadium, the intimidation factor can not be ignored at either place. What better way to add that extra factor which has been lacking from Notre Dame Stadium than by rallying around the color green? With the introduction of our new Irish coach (who ironically happens to share his name with a shade of green) this is clearly the perfect opportunity for all Notre Dame fans to (in the words of the 1928 edition of the Scholastic Football Review) come together as “a band of native and adopted Irish in their native color.” 
The only remaining question is whether or not creating a green shirt every year would be feasi­ble. The shirt raises a great deal of money for a good cause every year, and the fear that may prevent the change that so many desire has to do with the fact that fans may not buy a new shirt every year if the color does not change. There are ways around this, such as cycling through different shades of green and coming up with fresh designs each year, but it will still prove to be a formidable challenge. 
Ultimately, what the designers of the shirt and those in charge of promotions at Notre Dame must ask themselves is where their priorities lie. It is true that raising money for a good cause should not be overlooked. This is Notre Dame Football though, and at this potentially momen­tous turning point in the history of our program I think it is at least worth considering the ways in which we can increase our home field advantage and bring more “Fight” to the home of the “Fighting Irish.” 
At the very least, lets welcome in Coach Kelly with a Kelly Green shirt and an effort to promote “the wearin’ o’ the green” as we usher in a new era and a return to glory during the 2010 season. 
Your “Fightin’ Irish” Leprechaun, 
Daniel Collins 
senior Alumni Hall Jan. 25 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


Dems in Mass. 
We lost in Massachusetts because President Obama and Democrats in Congress have not been tough enough in pursuing their goals. Yes, Martha Coakley was a terrible candidate and deserved to lose (just about anywhere but Mass.), but the lesson must be learned that this is not a call for all Democrats to move to the center. It is a repudiation of politics without integrity. It is a statement against politicians who govern to get re-elected. The Democrats have been so paranoid of losing their majorities that they have forgotten what got them there. I am not advocating for Democrats to be extremely ideologically rigid. I am pleading that they do not back down in debates of what is morally just. When we are confronted with “death panels,” and the “government takeover of medicine,” we need to treat the American people like responsi­ble adults and tell them the truth, rather than caving from fear over being socialists, tree-huggers or anti-war hippies. We need to pick our battles, not over catch phrases like public option, but on what the best results will be for our country. 2010 needs to be the year when Democrats be honest with the American people and put what is best for them in the long term, ahead of what cable news and lobbyists are shouting about in the short term. 
Chris Rhodenbaugh 
junior off campus Jan. 20 
Still overpriced 
As occasionally happens, I wondered into the Huddle Mart due to a hunger that convinced me that Huddle Mart’s relative­ly close location made it the ideal candidate for me to purchase some munchies. I headed directly to the Clif bars, a source of quick sustenance I use to rely on to get me through time crunches. To my angst, Clif bars are priced at $2.09 rather than $0.99 as I was used to. This made an article that was pub­lished in The Observer sometime within the last year (“Huddle Mart unable to compete with retailers,” Oct. 13) pop into my mind. 
The article argued that the Huddle Mart’s prices were com­parable to other convenience stores and displayed a list of about 20 assorted items compared to average store prices. I figured maybe the price of Cliff bars had increased since I had last purchased them and continued my search. The next item that caught my eye was a seven-ounce bag of chips, and then its price. The Huddle Mart wants $3.29 for a bag of chips the size you might pay $1.29 for or maybe $1.59 if you found it in an over-priced convenience store. I did not recognize the brand so I figured this may be an expensive brand and moved on. 
Silk Vanilla soymilk caught my eye because I regularly pur­chase the half gallon size for $2.99 and I wanted to confirm the story that Huddle Mart’s prices were reasonable. This was a quarter gallon; factoring in for the convenient size I guessed $2 would be the maximum reasonable price. The Huddle Mart price is $3.29. Why would I pay more for a quarter gallon at the Huddle Mart than I would pay for a half gallon somewhere else? 
To polish off my disdain of Huddle Mart prices, and convince myself not to waste time hunting for munchies there again, I priced Clif bars on the Clif bar Web site, usually on par with store prices. The current price is $1.25 per bar. So Huddle Mart priced 20 items close to the average store price, but what about the rest of their selection? Why so overpriced? 
Dave Schmidt 
graduate student off campus Jan. 20 
Substantial aid 
It was completely unnecessary for Fr. DelFra to open his Thursday column (“What we can do together,” Jan. 21) with his explanation of the quote, “There are no atheists in foxholes.” The quote and even his explanation express a pervasive mindset that people cannot face great challenges without asking for help from above. I should not need to clarify why this is absurd. He proceeds to explain that an ecu­menical spirit between people of all religions right now is what is needed to face the crisis in Haiti. Should that spirit be what convinces you to offer help to those in Haiti, so be it. However, for those who think prayer will fix Haiti’s problems, I urge you to consider this anonymous quote: “Two hands working can do more than a thou­sand clasped in prayer.” I have been told many times that God listens to every prayer, but he doesn’t answer them all. Rather than taking our chances, I suggest we all do something a bit more concrete. Imagine the thousands of hands at this University giving monetary aid to relief organizations. That would most certainly have a tangible effect for the suffering people of Haiti. 
Andrew Hills 
sophomore Carroll Hall Jan. 21 
The Observer 
Scene

page 10 Tuesday, January 26, 2010 

By KATHERINE GREENSPON 
Scene Writer 
On Jan. 12, an earthquake with a scale of 7.0 hit south­ern Haiti close to capital city Port-au-Prince, where lives were lost and families were separated. The caliber of this tragedy has sent ripples of fear and sadness through­out the world, with people volunteering their time, donating money to major charities, and coming together quickly for a catas­trophe that requires aware­ness and action. 
Hollywood ’s elite came together this past Friday to put on a “Hope for Haiti ” concert and telethon that has been one of the largest aid efforts yet. George Clooney is no stranger to donating and giving aid where it is needed and Friday night ’s charity event was one of the largest he has hosted so far. A worldwide broadcast with George Clooney hosting in Los Angeles, Haiti native Wyclef Jean in New York and CNN ’s Anderson Cooper in Haiti showed brought raw emo­tion, news and sto­ries from the Haitian people right to their living room televisions. 
Throughout the benefit, celebrities like Reese Witherspoon, Brad Pitt, Robert Pattinson, Jennifer Aniston, Leonardo DiCaprio, Stephen Spielberg and oth­ers manned the phones for the telethon from 8 to 10 
p.m. And even after the con­cert was over, celebrities worked overtime to answer as many phone calls as they could. 
The concert segment of the event featured performances by many artists including the likes or Wyclef Jean, Bruce Springsteen, Jennifer Hudson, Mary J. Blige, Shakira and Sting in New York City. From the Los Angeles set came numbers by Alicia Keys, Christina Aguilera, Dave Matthews, John Legend, Justin Timberlake, Stevie Wonder, Taylor Swift and a group performance by Keith Urban, Kid Rock and Sheryl Crow. And in London, Coldplay per­formed, and there was a group performance by Bono, The Edge, Jay -Z and Rihanna. 
Clips from the wreckage were streamed during event and Haitian survivors offered their time to share sto­ries and 
news from their homeland. Hollywood’s most eminent performers gathered center stage for the Haiti relief concert which attracted people from all 
over the world, calling in with donations and their prayers for the Haitian peo­ple. 
Sophomore David Fosselman from Siegfried Hall said the benefit concert got his attention and got him involved in relief efforts. 


“I wasn’t involved with the Haiti relief effort until I watched the concert with artists like Justin Timberlake who sang Hallelujah,” he said. “It was then that I became inspired to get involved.” 
During the concert, stu ­dents called in to the telethon to give their dona­tions by phone. Not only were they donating to an excellent cause, they were given the chance to talk to celebrities over the phone. 
Sophomores Shannon Whelan and Karen Hanley did just that. 
“After getting the busy sig­nal numerous times I finally got a hold of a telethon oper­ator where I was able to give my donation,” Whelan said. 
“Having the telethon was a great idea because it made it so easy to call in and donate, plus I was able to watch a 
great concert,” Hanley said. 
“Hope for Haiti ” has 
reportedly brought in more 
than $50 million already, 
and donations are still com­
ing in. 
All proceeds from the 
event will be divided up 
between five charities, 
including UNICEF, the Red Cross, Oxfam America, Partners in Health and Wyclef’s Yele Haiti founda­tion. All five of these notable charities are working active­ly in Haiti right now. 
Performances that were televised are now available on iTunes for $.99 and Apple has agreed to give all funds directly to the “Hope For Haiti” charities. 
For more information on Haiti Relief charities and how to donate and make your contribution visit www.hopeforhaitinow.org or call toll free at 1-877 -99 ­HAITI. 
Contact Katherine Greenspon at kgreen01@saintmarys.edu 
The Star Power Behind the Haiti Relief Effort 
•Sandra 
Bullock donated $1 million dollars to Doctors Without Borders 

•Madonna 
gave $250,000 to Partners in Health 

•Not 
on Our Watch, a group funded by George Clooney, Brad Pitt and others donated $1 million 

•Lance 
Armstrong LIVESTRONG organi­zation donated $250,000 

•Media 
mogul Ted Turner donated $1 million 

•Brad 
and Angelina donated $1 million to Doctors Without Borders 

•Gisele 
Bündchen donated $1.5 million 

•The 
New York Yankees donated $500,000 

•Actress 
Olivia Wilde promised to send a personalized thank you video to anyone who donates more than $200 

•Jennifer 
Aniston donated $500,000 

•Tiger 
Woods, Natalie Portman and Oprah Winfrey are just some of the other stars that have donated 


Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrar1@nd.edu 


BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scene

Tuesday, January 26, 2010 page 11 

By NICK ANDERSON 
Scene Writer 
It’s not easy for Terry Gilliam to make a movie — something invari­ably goes wrong. 
From studio squabbling over budgets, to actors dropping out, Gilliam holds a wonderful series of failures, including two attempts at “Watchmen,” as well as the infa­mous “The Man Who Killed Don Quixote.” Regardless, every couple of years a studio gives him $30 mil­lion to make a movie and expects about $60 million in return. 
It’s actually rather surprising this happens time and time again. Gilliam makes sprawling, dark, moody movies that are more often than not confusing, sloppy and overstuffed with ideas. In place of a well-executed movie, he delivers a film that is a glimpse into the world that he lives in, one almost entirely unlike our own. Regarding the plot holes, weak characters and hectic pacing, the fault lies with the audi­ence for not fully understanding his world; the details all exist in his mind. 
In “The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus,” Gilliam lets us further into his mind than ever before. It’s a cluttered place, populated by dwarves, monks, unruly drunks, misplaced ruffians, societal fringes, dreams, nightmares and piles of rubbish. While you’re never quite comfortable with all that you can see, you’re more than welcome to have a look around. 
Although he’s explored it many times before, Gilliam once again is obsessed with humanity. The flaws, desires, weaknesses, temptations and most importantly the elegant hope of the human condition are pushed and prodded, examined and dissected. Through the masterfully constructed plot device of the Imaginarium, Gilliam is able to transform the human mind into a very real place, where desires are embodied in a brightly animated reality, but deals with the devil are followed by a handshake. 
The film tells the story of Doctor Parnassus, a former monk, once a protector of the existence of the uni­verse, as he travels through mod-ern-day London leading his motley crew of four in their attempts to entertain and enlighten an unrecep­tive audience. Parnassus, his confi­dant Percy, his daughter Valentina, and her suitor Anton, run the shab­by but powerful Imaginarium, which opens to another dimension, where the visitor is confronted with a choice between paths of light and dark­ness. In their travels, they find Tony, a man being chased by mobsters, hang­ing by his neck beneath a bridge. Tony, it seems, is a Godsend, help­ing Parnassus in his contest with Mr. Nick, a devilish creature, to see who can gather five souls first. If Parnassus wins, he continues his life of immortality; if Mr. Nick wins, he takes Parnassus’ daughter. 
The plot is every bit as cumber­some as it seems, but it’s well man­aged across the narrative arc. Several scenes seem written purely to facilitate a beautiful shot at the expense of real development, but 

the majesty of the visuals make up for this more often than not. The characters, while not fully fleshed out, and despite their over­whelming personali­ty traits, manage to narrowly avoid becoming parodies. 
Gilliam’s most underrated talent is easily his ability to coax incredible per­formances out of his actors despite any 
script weaknesses. He again does so in the impressive performances of Christopher Plummer, Heath Ledger and Tom Waits. The efforts of each actor are well appreciated, and Waits delivers a surprisingly suave and astute performance as the satanic Mr. Nick, displaying the same brilliance that was found in his role in Coppola’s “Dracula.” Ledger, whose death halted produc­tion, is replaced at different times by Johnny Depp, Colin Farrell and Jude Law. Considering the cir­cumstances, the transition is well done but Depp and Law both seem to struggle to understand the mind of the character, while Farrell, despite a period of iso­lation from Hollywood, gives an out­standing performance. 
“The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus” will no doubt divide audiences. Its faults are evident and easily critiqued, but a movie about humanity would struggle without significant flaws. Those who are forgiving of its weaknesses will be rewarded with a strange trip into an even stranger mind. 
Contact Nick Anderson at nanders5@nd.edu 


By NICK ANDERSON 
Scene Writer 

Damon Dash in one of the many men in the entertainment industry whose profile doesn’t match his influence. (In that sense, he’s like Diddy, but the exact opposite). 
He’s one of the co-founders of Roc-A-Fella Records as well as the respective clothing line and film studio. He’s worth more than $50 million and has ambition to get more. Any important act on Roc-A-Fella’s roster from Jay-Z to Kanye West has worked with him. 
There is one rather odd thing about the man though: his favorite band is The Black Keys. 
If that doesn’t seem odd, it’s most likely because of unfamiliarity with The Black Keys’ body of work. Working out of Ohio, the guitar and drums duo (insert unnecessary White Stripes comparison here) have been at the forefront of a wave of blues revival. 
After seven albums, they’ve gained favor­able comparisons to Jimi Hendrix, ZZ Top and Led Zeppelin and enough critical success to warrant working with Ike Turner, Danger Mouse and Rick Rubin. Continually poised to break into the mainstream, they’ve never quite gotten over the hump, and instead have found their music played in commercials, movies and television shows instead of on the radio waves. 
Dash reached out to The Black Keys and met them in studio accompanied by Jim Jones, a recent business and music partner of Dash. During the ensuing session, Mos Def interrupted the recording and ultimately joined in the collaboration, putting the finish­ing touches on the album’s only single, “At Nothing Like You (Hoochie Coo).” 
In the following 10 days, The Black Keys recorded with an impressive set of important players in hip-hop, including Ludacris, RZA, Pharoahe Monch, Raekwon and Q-Tip, as well as acquiring an unused record from the late Ol’ Dirty Bastard. 
The resulting “Blakroc” is a dangerous foray into a sullied genre. Any collaboration between rock and rap must not only have its own merits, but must also risk association with so-called nu-metal acts such as Korn and Limp Bizkit. Luckily, the sound harkens more to the early joining of the two musical styles, reminiscent of Run DMC and Aerosmith or Anthrax and Public Enemy. Twenty years after these pioneers, rap and rock pairings cannot survive on novelty alone and “Blakroc” succeeds where they easily could have failed. 
The sound is completely comfortable and organic. By enlisting rappers who flourished under a gritty and under-produced style, The Black Keys were able to maintain their own sensibilities while putting the spotlight firmly on the hip hop. The lyrics stick firmly to mat­ters explored thoroughly in both genres — sex, drugs and money — and the music idol­izes them in all the glory for which both styles have been demonized. 
There are two outstanding performances: Raekwon and Nicole Wray. Raekwon’s gravel­ly flow, story book lyrics and stark realities on “Stay Off the Flowers” put the song far and above the best song on the album 
and an easy frontrunner for the best rap song released in 2009. This track, along with last year’s “Only Built for Cuban Linx Pt 2,” solidifies Raekwon’s position in the pantheon of rap. 
While Raekwon’s performance is unsurprising, Nicole Wray is reborn. A one-hit wonder from the 90s, Wray complements The Black Keys with a bluesy, soulful voice on “Why Can’t I Forget Him,” as well as three more impressive hooks. 
“Blakroc” is a hopeful noise in two genres that are currently weighted down with excess, money and exec­utive control. While the album missteps on its opening track, guided by Ludacris, the spirit of early rock and hip hop is clearly evident and the swagger is unmistakable. Not content with merely releasing one of the best albums of 2009, Dash and The Black Keys also started a record label, anticipating more to come, and if it’s of the same brilliance as “Blakroc,” it’s more than welcome. 

Contact Nick Anderson at nanders5@nd.edu 


page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, January 26, 2010 
NFL 

CBS urged to pull pro-life Tebow ad 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — A coalition of women’s groups called on the CBS network on Monday to scrap its plan to broadcast an ad during the Super Bowl featuring college football star Tim Tebow and his mother, which critics say is likely to convey an anti-abor­tion message. 
The ad — paid for by the con­servative Christian group Focus on the Family — is expected to recount the story of Pam Tebow’s pregnancy in 1987 with a theme of “Celebrate Family, Celebrate Life.” After getting sick during a mission trip to the Philippines, she ignored a rec­ommendation by doctors to abort her fifth child and gave birth to Tim, who went on to win the 2007 Heisman Trophy while helping his Florida team to two college football champi­onships. 
The New York-based Women’s Media Center was coordinating the protest with backing from the National Organization for Women, the Feminist Majority and other groups. 
“An ad that uses sports to divide rather than to unite has no place in the biggest national sports event of the year — an event designed to bring Americans together,” said Jehmu Greene, president of the Women’s Media Center. 
CBS said it has approved the script for the 30-second ad and has given no indication that the protest would have an impact. A network spokesman, Dana McClintock, said CBS would ensure that any issue-oriented ad was “appropriate for air.” 
The controversy over the ad was raised Sunday when Tebow met with reporters. 
“I know some people won’t agree with it, but I think they can at least respect that I stand up for what I believe,” Tebow said. “I’ve always been very con­victed of it (his views on abor­tion) because that’s the reason I’m here, because my mom was a very courageous woman. So any way that I could help, I would do it.” 
Thirty-second commercials during the Super Bowl are sell­ing for $2.5 million to $2.8 mil­lion. Gary Schneeberger, a spokesman for Focus on the Family, said funds for the Tebow ad were donated by a few “very generous friends” and did not come from the group’s general fund. 
Schneeberger said he and his colleagues “were a little sur­prised” at the furor over the ad. 
“There’s nothing political and controversial about it,” he said. “When the day arrives, and you sit down to watch the game on TV, those who oppose it will be quite surprised at what the ad is all about.” 
The protest letter from the Women’s Media Center suggest­ed that CBS should have turned down the ad in part because it was conceived by Focus on the Family. 
“By offering one of the most coveted advertising spots of the year to an anti-equality, anti-choice, homophobic organiza­tion, CBS is aligning itself with a political stance that will damage its reputation, alienate viewers, and discourage consumers from supporting its shows and adver­tisers,” the letter said. 
However, Schneeberger said CBS officials carefully examined Focus on the Family’s track record and found no basis for rejecting the ad. 
“We understand that some people don’t think very highly of what we do,” Schneeberger said. “We’re not trying to sell you a soft drink — we’re not selling anything. We’re trying to celebrate families.” 
All the broadcast networks, including CBS, have policies that rule out the broadcast of certain types of contentious advocacy ads. In 2004, CBS cited such a policy in rejecting an ad by the liberal-leaning United Church of Christ highlighting the UCC’s welcoming stance toward gays and others who might feel shunned by more conservative churches. 
CBS was criticized for reject­ing that ad — and perhaps might have worried about com­parable criticism from conserva­tives if it had rejected an ad fea­turing such a charismatic and well-known figure as Tebow. 
CBS noted that it had run some advocacy ads in recent months, including spots taking conflicting sides in the debate of a national health care overhaul. 
A columnist for CBSSports.com, Gregg Doyel, also objected to the CBS decision to show the ad, specifically because it would air on Super Sunday. 
“If you’re a sports fan, and I am, that’s the holiest day of the year,” he wrote. “It’s not a day to discuss abortion. For it, against it, I don’t care what you are. On Super Sunday, I don’t care what I am. Feb. 7 is simply not the day to have that discus­sion.” 
AUSTRALIAN OPEN 
No. 1 seeds bounce last Aussies 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia — Lleyton Hewitt and Sam Stosur faced the best in the business and could be excused for wish­ing they had skipped work when a half million other Aussies took a day off. 
Roger Federer and Serena Williams ended local hopes of breaking a three-decade drought at the Australian Open. The top-ranked Federer beat former No. 1 Hewitt 6-2, 6-3, 6-4 Monday night at Rod Laver Arena. Federer said he’d been playing Hewitt since they were 14 and they were old friends and rivals, but it didn’t stop him from beating the Australian a 15th straight time. 
Williams, ranked No. 1 and the defending champion, defeated No. 13 Stosur 6-4, 6­2 in the previous match on center court at Melbourne Park. 
Williams lost to Stosur in their last meeting and decided from the start to make sure the fans were not a factor. She kept everybody quiet, conced­ing only seven points on serve in the 65-minute match. 
“It’s important when you’re playing a local girl to not let the crowd get too involved or else they’ll kill you,” Williams said. 
The main evening news broadcast broke into the Williams-Stosur coverage. The match was pushed back because Nikolay Davydenko’s win over 2009 semifinalist Fernando Verdasco went to five sets, undoubtedly longer than programmers banked on. 
And so the marquee matches featuring the last two Aussie hopes for a first winner since the late 1970s fizzled the night before Australia Day, the national holiday. 
News reports estimated that one-third of employees across Australia on Monday took a “sickie” — Australian slang for a work absence without a proper excuse — to give them­selves a four-day weekend through Tuesday’s holiday. 
The day’s play brought a record crowd of 49,073 for the second Monday at Melbourne Park, and these story lines: Federer will play Davydenko and 2008 champion Novak Djokovic will meet 2008 run­ner-up Jo-Wilfried Tsonga in the quarterfinals; Serena and Venus Williams are each a win away of setting up a sisters semifinal. 
Venus Williams advanced 3­6, 6-2, 6-1 over Francesca Schiavone, the first time she’s dropped a set in six matches dating back eight years against the Italian. 
Venus will play No. 16 Li Na, who ousted U.S. Open finalist Caroline Wozniacki 6-4, 6-3 and joined 2008 Wimbledon semifinalist Zheng Jie to give China two players in the quar­terfinals of one Grand Slam tournament for the first time. 
Li beat Venus in their only previous match — the quarter­finals at the 2008 Beijing Olympics. 
Serena, who has won the Australian title each odd-num­bered year since beating Venus for the 2003 champi­onship, will play seventh-seed­ed Victoria Azarenka of Belarus, who beat No. 9 Vera Zvonareva of Russia 4-6, 6-4, 6-0 in a late match. 
O the men’s side, Tsonga, seeded 10th, had to go five sets for the first time in a career that has spanned 11 Grand Slam events to edge Spaniard Nicolas Almagro 6-3, 6-4, 4-6, 6-7 (6), 9-7. 
Djokovic had a 6-1, 6-2, 7-5 win over Poland’s Lukasz Kubot, who was ranked No. 101 at the end of last season and got a walkover in the third round when No. 20 Mikhail Youzhny withdrew with an injured wrist. 
Davydenko held off No. 9 Verdasco 6-2, 7-5, 4-6, 6-7 (5), 6-3, dropping a set for the first time in the tournament but extending his winning streak to 13 matches, including wins over both Federer and No. 2 Rafael Nadal at the 2009 sea­son-ending championship in London and the 2010 season-opener at Doha. 
Nadal, the defending cham­pion, takes on No. 5 Andy Murray, the Scot seeking his first major, on Tuesday night. In the preceding match, No. 7 Andy Roddick plays No. 14 Marin Cilic, who is coming off an upset of U.S. Open champi­on Juan Martin del Potro. 

Justine Henin resumes her Grand Slam comeback in a quarterfinal against Nadia Petrova, who has already oust­ed two reigning major champs 
— U.S. Open winner Kim Clijsters and French Open champion Svetlana Kuznetsova. 
China’s Zheng faces Maria Kirilenko, who beat fellow Russians Maria Sharapova, the 2008 champion, and No. 2 Dinara Safina, last year’s los­ing finalist, in earlier rounds. 
Davydenko has won 20 tour titles and finished in the top six each year since 2005 but has never reached a Grand Slam final. The Russian’s best runs in Australia have been to the quarterfinals, this being his fourth. 
Federer said he was now more wary of Davydenko, who has overcome the nerves that once plagued his serve. 
“Yeah, he just used to get the yips,” Federer said. “I mean, he would not hit his first serve, and if he would, he would miss it and then he would serve a ton of double-faults. That would obviously give you many more opportunities to break.” 
Davydenko lost his first 12 matches against Federer before finally beating the Swiss twice. 
“In Doha when I played him, he hit 27 out of 27 first serves into the court,” Federer said. “So it’s a bit of difference, you know. That makes it a bit more difficult to break. Obviously he’s one of the good return players we have in the game. He moves extremely well and makes it hard.” 
Federer has won three of his record 15 Grand Slam titles in Australia and has reached the semifinals or better each year since 2004 at Melbourne Park. 
“I’m in for a good match for sure,” he said, but “I obviously favor my chances in a best-of­five set match.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Matter and energy had ended and All collected data had come to a For another timeless interval, AC Do not go it alone. with it, space and time. Even AC final end. Nothing was left to be col-thought how best to do this.

FOR RENT PERSONAL 
Notre Dame has many resources in existed only for the sake of the one lected. But all collected data had Carefully, AC organized the pro-place to assist you. If you or some-last question that it had never yet to be completely correlated and gram. 
gradrentals.viewwork.com 

If you or someone you care about one you love needs confidential answered from the time a half-put together in all possible relation­——————————————— has been sexually assaulted, we support or assistance, please call drunken computer ten trillion years ships. A timeless interval was spent The consciousness of AC encom­Off-Campus housing 2010-2011, can help. For more information, visit Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth before had asked the question of a in doing that. And it came to pass passed all of what had once been a Irish Crossings, Dublin Village 2,3,4 Notre Dame's website: at 1-2685. computer that was to AC far less that AC learned how to reverse the Universe and brooded over what bedrooms still available. Furnished http.csap.nd.edu than was a man to Man. All other direction of entropy. But there was was now Chaos. Step by step, it and UnFurnished. Hurry only a few ——————————————— For more information, visit ND's questions had been answered, and now no man to whom AC might give must be done. left. Best living, safety, Value. CES Schwab from NY — Call Dad! I love web site: until this last question was the answer of the last question. No Property Management, 574-968-you so much, and you hurt me http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu answered also, AC might not matter. The answer — by demon-And AC said, "LET THERE BE 0112 every day. release his consciousness. stration — would take care of that. LIGHT!" ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 

Tuesday, January 26, 2010 
page 13 

NCAA Men’s Basketball Division I AP Poll 
team W-L previous 
NFL 

Vikings unsure about Favre, future 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 

Kentucky  19-0  2  
Kansas  18-1  3  
Villanova  18-1  4  
Syracuse  19-1  5  
Michigan State  17-3  6  
Texas  17-2  1  
Georgetown  15-3  12  
Duke  16-3  7  
West Virginia  15-3  11  
Purdue  16-3  13  
Kansas State  16-3  10  
BYU  20-1  14  
Gonzaga  16-3  15  
Tennessee  15-3  8  
Temple  17-3  16  
Wisconsin  16-4  18  
Pittsburgh  15-4  9  
Mississippi  15-4  22  
Connecticut  13-6  NR  
Ohio State  14-6  21  
Vanderbilt  15-3  NR  
Georgia Tech  14-5  19  
New Mexico  18-3  NR  
Baylor  15-3  25  
UAB  17-2  NR  

1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 

NCAA Men’s Basketball Division I Coaches Poll 
team W-L previous 
Kentucky Kansas Villanova Syracuse Michigan State Texas Duke Gonzaga West Virginia BYU Georgetown Purdue Kansas State Tennessee Temple Wisconsin Pittsburgh Butler Connecticut Mississippi Clemson Georgia Tech Vanderbilt Ohio State Northern Iowa 19-0 18-1 18-1 19-1 17-3 17-2 16-3 16-3 15-3 20-1 15-3 16-3 16-3 15-3 17-3 16-4 15-4 16-4 13-6 15-4 15-5 14-5 15-3 14-6 17-2 
2 3 4 5 7 1 6 10 12 13 14 15 9 8 17 19 11 20 21 24 16 18 NR 25 22 
Associated Press 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. — One after another, the Minnesota Vikings mentioned how much they enjoyed play­ing with Brett Favre. 
Will the fun will be one sea­son and done? 
The devastated Vikings gathered Monday at their practice facility for exit physi­cals and meetings with coaches, two weeks sooner than they hoped thanks to that epic overtime loss in New Orleans for the NFC championship. 
Despite all the other intriguing in-game develop­ments and offseason story lines, the day-after focus fell on the 40-year-old Favre’s future. He didn’t appear in the locker room at Winter Park while it was open to reporters, but his demeanor after the game and responses from teammates suggested he’s leaning toward quitting. 
For now. 
“In a situation like this I really don’t want to make a decision right now based on what’s happened, because I do know the year could not have gone any better aside from us not going to Miami,” Favre said Sunday night at the Superdome. “I really enjoyed it, to be honest. Just wondering if I can hold up, especially after a day like today.” 
He took a beating by the Saints, and the ankle injury he suffered in the third quar­ter was another reminder of 
IN BRIEF 
Bill Haas notches first victory at Hope Classic 
LA QUINTA, Calif — Bill Haas followed his father's advice to be patient through six long days at the Bob Hope Classic until his final hole, when a highly impatient shot clinched his first PGA Tour victory. 
Haas made a short birdie putt after an aggressive approach shot on the 18th hole to win the Hope Classic on Monday, beating Matt Kuchar, Tim Clark and Bubba Watson by one stroke with an 8­under 64. 
“I’d been wanting to win from the first tournament I played, but it's a process, and there’s a lot to it,” said Haas, a rookie in 2006. “It’s special, but I don’t know if it’s a monkey off my back. I know how hard it was to win, and I’m grateful.” 
The 27-year-old son of 1988 Hope Classic champion Jay Haas was the last of three co-leaders to play the par-5 18th. 
how draining the game has been for him mentally and physically down the stretch of his 19-year career. 
“From a physical stand­point I feel for him, but defi­nitely mentally and emotion­ally as he always does he lays it on the line and gave it everything he had,” line­backer Ben Leber said. “I truly wish we could have him back next year, but that will be his decision.” 
Leber sounded resigned to losing Favre to retirement, though the NFL’s all-time leading passer is so famously prone to waffling over his decision he could always find a renewed desire to return for more after a break from the grind. 
“It’s still early. Way too early. Brett is liable to change his mind five, 10 times down the road," wide receiver Bernard Berrian said. "He already knows that we want him back. It’s more or less letting him go off and do his thing.” 
Without prompting, player after player brought up how fun Favre was to play with. Respectfully, they declined to speculate about his decision, but the consensus was that he can take all the time he needs even if it means skip­ping training camp again. 
The Vikings are still searching for that elusive Super Bowl victory, but this was as close as they’ve come in 11 years. With one of his best seasons, Favre was a major part of that. 



around the dial 
Men’s NCAA Basketball 
Michigan State at Michigan 7 p.m., ESPN 
Men’s NCAA Basketball 
Clemson at Boston College 7 p.m., ESPN2 
Rick Ankiel to become Royals centerfielder 
KANSAS CITY, Mo — The Kansas City Royals are reshaping their entire outfield and making Jose Guillen their full-time designated hitter. 
While introducing newcomer Rick Ankiel on Monday, general manager Dayton Moore said the injury-prone Guillen would be replaced in right field by David DeJesus, last year’s left fielder. Ankiel will play center and Scott Podsednik, another new­comer, will be in left. 
The Royals opened last year with Coco Crisp in center field but he got hurt and the position mostly belonged to Mitch Maier after that. 
“We feel that right now, going into spring training, this is the best way to position our outfield defense,” Moore said. “These three guys are all capable of playing center field. We felt Rick’s best use is to put him in center field at this time.” 
Glen ‘Big Baby’ Davis wants to drop nickname 
BOSTON — Boston Celtics for­ward Glen “Big Baby” Davis is looking to change his image. Step One: Drop the nickname. 
Davis, who missed the start of the season following surgery for a broken thumb he sustained in a fight with a childhood friend, was recently fined $25,000 for direct­ing inappropriate language at a fan during a game against Detroit last Wednesday. 
“I’m in the public eye. Kids look up to me. You just can' t make those kind of statements,” he said before Monday’s game against the Los Angeles Clippers. “It (stinks) that you have to learn this way, how to keep your emotions intact. I know who I am as a person, and hopefully my fans know who I am as a person, that I am a good guy. I’m not a troublemaker or a fight­er.” 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, January 26, 2010 
NFL 

Colts hope to repeat ‘07 feat 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — The Indianapolis Colts started this season with one goal: winning another Super Bowl. 
Now they are a victory away from a championship and head­ed back to the site of their previ­ous one. 
No, the plans haven’t changed much from Indy’s last postsea­son trip to Miami. This week will be spent putting in a game plan, and next week, first-year coach Jim Caldwell is taking a page right out of Tony Dungy’s play­book. The Colts will stay at the same hotel, practice at the same facility and follow almost the same routine that they did before beating Chicago in the rainiest Super Bowl on record. 
“We’ll change some things. We’ll tweak them and adjust them a little bit, according to how we envision some things, and it depends on what happens to us this week,” Caldwell said Monday. “We’ll make some adjustments, it’s not an iron-clad sort of routine. But, overall, we’ll probably be fairly close to what we’ve done previously.” 
Some of the changes are not by choice. 
Four-time MVP Peyton Manning and his Pro Bowl team­mates, who include Dallas Clark, Dwight Freeney and Reggie Wayne, are expected to be in town Sunday afternoon for a pregame news conference — a full day before the rest of the Colts arrive. Team president Bill Polian called that rule “distaste­ful” and a “fiasco” on his weekly radio show Monday night. 
Indy’s team plane also is expected to arrive a little earlier than it did three years ago because of new rules imple­mented in 2008. 
But with nearly half of Indy’s roster having Super Bowl expe­rience, Caldwell will rely on his veterans to help younger players cope with the countless distrac­tions of the next two weeks. Players, like fans, are scram­bling to make travel plans, fill countless ticket requests and answer all kinds of e-mail and text messages. Caldwell said he had about 250 e-mail and more than 150 text messages after Sunday’s 30-17 victory over the New York Jets. 
Pro Bowl center Jeff Saturday offers some advice. 
“Make a list of how many tick­ets you’re going to have, set a priority, and tell them the tickets will be there at will call when you get there. Let them find their ways down, because it can become a madhouse,” he said. “Truthfully, it falls a lot to our wives and family members who help us out. It can get anybody stressed.” 
Preferably, the Colts (16-2) would like everything resolved before returning to practice Wednesday. 
The reason? Once Indy reach­es Miami, Saturday recalls, play­ers will study film and do addi­tional prep work for the Saints (15-3) in unfamiliar surround­ings or hotel rooms. New Orleans is in the Super Bowl for the first time in franchise histo­ry. 
Another possible problem: Most people who come to town want to vacation or party. But the Colts have a job — complet­ing a mission deemed so essen­tial they threw away a chance at perfection to win a title. 
So the Colts don’t want any­thing derailing their plans. 
“I guess it is kind of a relief that we’ve made it, but we’re not satisfied just being here,” left guard Ryan Lilja said. “We want to win, we want a ring, and that means you shouldn’t be hanging out on South Beach on Saturday night.” 
Indy’s leaders will make sure that does not happen. 
Among those singled out by Caldwell were Freeney, Manning, Saturday and Wayne 
— all of whom are likely to treat this trip like the business trip they made to Miami in February 2007. 
“Hey, we’ve got three months to hang out after this,” Saturday said. “You can hang out on South Beach for three months if you want. But we have a job to do first.” 
And it’s that attitude that Caldwell believes will make a difference on game day. 
“The ultimate goal is to win it all,” he said. “Nobody is going to be satisfied until we do that.” 
MLB 
Mets’ Santana looks to pitch opening day 
Associated Press 
PORT ST. LUCIE, Fla. — New York Mets ace Johan Santana is set to throw off a mound, hoping his left elbow has recovered from surgery late last season. 
Santana is scheduled to pitch Tuesday during the Mets’ three-day minicamp at their spring training complex. He expects to ready for opening day after hav­ing bone chips removed Sept. 1. 
“I’m feeling good. Time will tell, but I am feeling good,” the two-time Cy Young winner said Monday. “We did a pretty good job with the offseason, working out and doing all the rehab, and I’m feeling good. Everything is on schedule.” 
Santana went 13-9 with a 
3.13 
ERA in 25 starts. He strug­gled after June, going 6-7 with a 

4.02 
ERA before the Mets shut him down in late August. 


Pitcher Oliver Perez, who had scar tissue removed from his right knee last season, also was optimistic. 
“Right now I don’t feel any­thing,” Perez said of his knee. “I think that’s why I’m really happy.” 
Mets general manager Omar Minaya said the team’s health was the key to this season. Depleted by injuries, the Mets went 70-92 last year. 
“Two weeks ago we were con­fident in Carlos Beltran being in the lineup, and now he’s not going to be for the start, so that’s why we went out and got Gary Matthews,” he said. “I think a healthy Mets team will contend for a playoff spot. I think the Phillies have really improved themselves, so we have a lot of work to do.” 
“I don’t think we are a joke but I do believe when you lose and you have a situation where 
— let’s be honest — we didn’t have a good year. In New York, for people to pay more atten­tion, you have to win,” he said. 
The Mets quickly fell out of contention last year. In the two previous seasons, they doomed themselves with late collapses. 
“It wasn’t like last year was something that happened three or four years,” Minaya said. “We all feel disappointed by how the year turned out last year, but the good thing about it is it’s a new year.” 
Minaya said the Mets were still exploring their choices at catcher. They lost out on free-agent Bengie Molina, who re­signed with San Francisco, and currently have four options: Henry Blanco, Omir Santos, Chris Coste and young Josh Thole. 
“If we need to go with the guys we have we will. But we are still talking to some other teams and looking at some free agents,” Minaya said. 


Tuesday, January 26, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
NFL 
Archie roots for Peyton over Saints 


Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Who dat say dey gonna beat dem Saints? 
Well, Archie’s boy might have something to say about that. 
In a stunning turn of events, the team led through 
its formative years by a strong -armed quarterback named Archie Manning has finally made it to the Super Bowl. And look who’s standing in the way of the first NFL championship in New Orleans’ large­
ly forgettable 43-year history as a pro football city. 
None other than Peyton Manning and the Indianapolis Colts. 
Archie’s son guided the Colts into the Super Bowl with a 30-17 victory over the upstart New York Jets in Sunday’s AFC championship game. About four hours later, the Saints stamped their tick­et for South Beach by beating Brett Favre and the Minnesota Vikings 31-28 in an overtime thriller that decided the NFC title. 
The winners will face off for the ultimate prize Feb. 7 in Miami. 
Ever the doting father, Archie Manning attended the AFC championship game along with another son, New York Giants quarterback Eli Manning, and made it clear 
he’ll be rooting 
“I’m pulling for the 
for the Colts in 
the Super Bowl, 
not even close.” though he knows a Super Bowl title would 
Archie Manning 
mean so much 
former Saint’s QB 
to his adopted 
hometown. 
The elder 
Manning still lives in New Orleans, hanging in there even as the city struggles more than four years later to overcome the hellishness of Hurricane Katrina. 
“I’m pulling for the Colts 100 percent, ” Archie Manning said. “It’s not even close.” 
Still, the family subplot hov­ering over this game will give everyone plenty to talk about during the next two weeks. 


page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, January 26, 2010 
NFL 

Ryan expresses pride after run at AFC crown 
Associated Press 
FLORHAM PARK, N.J. — Rex Ryan was so pleased with his team’s surprising playoff run this season, he’s clearing out his wardrobe. 
Only green and white from now on for the New York Jets coach. 
“You won’t see me in nothing but Jets gear because I believe,” Ryan said Monday before taking yet another shot at his king-sized build. “And the fact that there are 4X.” 
All kidding aside, the Jets proved they were no joke after coming within a win of going to the Super Bowl. Any disappoint­ment from their 30-17 loss to Indianapolis in the AFC champi­onship was overshadowed by pride as the Jets began thinking about next season. 
“I told our players to wear their Jets stuff and be proud of it,” Ryan said. “There’s no rea­son we shouldn’t be proud to be a New York Jet. This isn’t the ‘Same Old Jets’ and any nega­tive connotation that way is crazy. Like I said, punch some­body in the nose for it if that’s the case. 
“That’s the way we feel because our football team is tough. We are resilient and I think we are going to get back.” 
It’s tough to argue with Ryan considering the Jets (11-8) were able to get to the conference championship with a first-year head coach, a rookie quarter­back and a new defensive sys­tem. They were also able to overcome injuries to key play­ers such as Leon Washington and Kris Jenkins and a dismal stretch that appeared to ruin their playoff chances. 
“Rex came in here and laid down the law and said how things were going to be,” center Nick Mangold said. “We took it to heart and ran with it.” 
They sure did, all the way to Indianapolis, where they were 30 minutes from their first Super Bowl appearance in 41 years before Peyton Manning took charge. 
“Even after looking at that film, we still lost and we deserved to lose,” Ryan said. “They won the game, no ques­tion about it. It’s a nightmare watching Peyton Manning do that again to us.” 
The Jets’ top-ranked defense failed to shut down Manning and the Colts’ offense in the second half after Mark Sanchez helped New York to a 17-13 halftime lead. Still, the defense played well most of the season and should be even better with the return of Jenkins, who tore the anterior cruciate ligament in his left knee in October. 
All-Pro cornerback Darrelle Revis had an incredible season, shutting down top wide receivers on a weekly basis, and is being asked by Ryan to become even more of a vocal leader. 
“We had a great run,” Revis said. “When people didn’t believe we could do it, we made a way.” 
Ryan called it a “yo-yo sea­son,” one in which the Jets started 3-0, lost six of their next seven and then closed out the regular season with five wins in their last six games to make the playoffs. 
“We started great and then we about hit rock bottom, came right back up again,” Ryan said, “and then unfortunately, (Sunday) night, we hit rock bot­tom again, because there’s no tomorrow.” 
There was also an incredible lucky streak in which the Colts pulled their starters in Week 16, giving up a chance at a perfect season, and the Jets took advantage. New York benefited the following week when Cincinnati came to town with little to gain, and the Jets beat the Bengals, too. Meanwhile, all the teams ahead of them in the playoff race kept losing. 
“There was a point where we could’ve just tanked,” Sanchez said. “But the way these guys are in this locker room, how excited we are to play for each other, and how Rex got us going, we just want to play for each other and win some games.” 
While the top-ranked running game thrived behind Thomas Jones’ career-high 1,402 yards rushing, Sanchez struggled mightily with turnovers. Then, as the games became more important, the rookie began playing like a seasoned veteran. 
“I think we saw our future, I really do,” Ryan said of Sanchez. “I want to be, and I know all our fans want me to be, more multiple I’m sure on offense, instead of just the run first, run second, run third-type mentality.” 
Ryan established a brash, confident mentality the moment he was hired as the coach a year ago, making it clear he’s never afraid to say what’s on his mind. For a franchise sorely lacking an identity, Ryan took care of all that by himself. 
“We believed in him as the season went on,” safety Kerry Rhodes said. “A lot of the things he said came to fruition, even though we didn’t meet the President. We got pretty close.” 
Ryan warned his players that it’s no given they’ll be back in this spot again next season. But they all believe there’s much more to come, starting next season — and maybe with a home AFC championship game. 
“Let’s play this game in front of our fans and our stadium, the New Jets Stadium,” Ryan said with a smile. “That’s going to be (the name of) it when we play in it. I can’t wait. We get our stadi­um and we are not the visitors in our stadium. This is our sta­dium. We are the biggest show in town and that’s what it’s going to be.” 





Tuesday, January 26, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
Abromaitis 
continued from page 20 
practice where he would own the likes of Zach Hillesland and Ryan Ayers. 
The operative words there are “some days.” Now he’s doing it consistently — he averages 16.7 points per game and makes 49.6 per­cent of his 3-pointers. 
“He’s a 6-7 wingman who can do a little bit of every­thing,” senior guard Ben Hansbrough said of Abromaitis. “He’s got a great body, great hops, he’s a very good player for us.” 
Abromaitis’ transformation this season, however, is more complicated than just his are ranked second and third in the country in assist-to­turnover ratio behind Duke’s John Scheyer. 

But it’s not all on them. 
“To [Abromaitis’] credit, he 

own improve­ment. Brey said he started playing along­side the “per­fect storm” of players: senior forward Luke Harangody to attract help ­side defense and leave Ab ro ma iti s 
open, and has delivered,” Brey continued. “He has made the shots.” 

Ab ro ma iti s isn’t just a shooter — sev­eral times he took advantage 
of a gap and took a pass under the bas­ket against DePaul and threw down a 
dunk or two in the process. 
“One of my strengths is really my versatility,” 
“I’m kind of a quiet scorer but that might be better for me.” 
Tim Abromaitis Irish forward 
Ab romaiti s said. “I’m able to score on the inside and out­side and it makes it hard­er for some teams to match up with me.” 
He also understands how important Jackson and Hansbrough 
guards Hansbrough and sen­ior Tory Jackson, who Brey said may be the best passers in the country. 
Jackson and Hansbrough are to his success. He credit­ed their drive-and-kick pass­es to helping him get open looks. 


“I don’t know how they see me half the time when they give me the ball,” he said. 
Hansbrough does. 

“When somebody’s shoot­ing 50 percent from the 3­point line, you have in the back of your mind, ‘Where’s he at?’” Hansbrough said. 
“He does a great job of find­ing open areas.” 
Abromaitis has also taken advantage of the transition offense. He can take a pass on the fast break in the lane 
“When somebody’s shooting 50 percent from the 3-point line, you have in the back of your mind, ‘Where’s he at?’” 
Ben Hansbrough Irish guard 
or sit on the perimeter while the defense rush­es past, then wait for a pass and an open shot. 
“At the beginning a couple transi­tion buckets got me a cou­ple easy looks,” he 
said. “The penetration of Ben and Tory, they did a great job getting in the lane and know­ing where people are up and down on them and kicking it out to the open shooter. That just happened to be me a lot of the time today.” 
That phenomenon burnt the Demon Deacons, DePaul interim head coach Tracy Webster said. 
“If he was ball-side and his guy had to help, he was going to get an open look,” Webster said. 
As potent a scorer as he is, he’s done it under the radar until recently, even in his own eyes: He was surprised that he scored 30 points 
CCHA 
continued from page 20 
need to play with right now.” 
The Irish (11-10-7, 7-7-6-2 CCHA) also gained four points the weekend of Jan. 15 in a series against No. 6 Michigan State, and due to the two-week surge they are in the mid-
Indeed, the first-round bye and subsequent home ice advantage have proven to be vital to Notre Dame’s success during Jackson’s tenure. 
In 2006, the Irish finished eighth in the CCHA, and host­ed a first-round series, but without a bye fell to Alaska Fairbanks, 1-3, 0-1. The fol­lowing year, Notre Dame won the CCHA reg­ular -season 
Saturday. “ I d o n ’t re all y c o u n t o r anything like that,” he said. “I’m kind of a quiet scorer  dle of six CCHA teams separated b y s i x po i n t s. L a ke S u p e r i o r  “I give them a lot of credit to play with that sense of urgency  title and used its first-round bye and home ice advantage  
but that might be better for  has held onto its  that we do need to  t o  re a c h  t h e  
me.”  t r e a s u r e d fourth-place sta­ play with right now.”  CCHA champi­o n s h i p i n  
Contact Bill Brink at  t u s  wit h  3 2  Detroit, where  
wbrink@nd.edu  points, followed  Jeff Jackson  the Irish  won  
by Alaska with  Irish coach  t h eir  f i r s t  



30 points, and the Irish in sixth with 29. From there Michigan, Nebraska-Omaha and Ohio State are all sepa­rated by a point each, respec­tively in seventh, eighth and ninth. 
Thus, the ninth -place Buckeyes could jump to fourth or fifth place in the blink of an eye with a two-win, six-point weekend. All six teams are hoping to do just that as they chase the top four standing and the rewards that come with it. The top four teams receive a first-round bye in the CCHA tour­nament, and also host the second round of the tourna­ment. Jackson said the differ­ence those perks can make cannot be underappreciated. 
“It’s always easier to play at home as far as less change and having the advantage of playing in front of your home crowd,” Jackson said. “Plus you don’t have to play that first-round series which gives you time to potentially heal up guys.” 
CCHA tourna­
ment. The team followed the same road in 2009. 
The value of winning the CCHA tournament cannot be overlooked, as it brings with it an automatic bid into the NCAA Tournament, and a shot at the ultimate goal, the NCAA Championship. 
“[The CCHA tournament] dictates the [NCAA Tournament],” Jackson said. “I have said since I got here that what you need to is put yourself in position to get to Detroit and there put yourself in position to make the NCAA Tournament.” 
Thanks to the recent surge, the Irish are closing in on that desired fourth-place position, and once the postseason comes, the possible first ­round bye and home ice advantage will be what mat­ter, not the early season struggles and weekend sweeps. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
CLUB SPORTS 
Figure skaters tie for fifth at Mid-America 
Special to The Observer 
This weekend the Notre Dame Figure Skating Team tied for fifth at the Mid-America championships in Fraser, Mich. 
In an increasingly competi­tive division of 13 well-estab­lished open collegiate pro­grams, the Irish skaters improved their rank from the Porter Classic in spite of a minor fall during the program. 
The team was proud of its performance, having had just three practices prior to compe­tition due to winter break. The group has a goal of peaking with a top-three finish at their most important competition of the year, the Midwestern Sectionals, in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, in two weeks. 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, January 26, 2010 
Peters 
continued from page 20 
tired I’m fouling, I only have five fouls in 10 minutes!’ 
“I thought I would be ridicu­lously exhausted.” 
Peters, who still walks with a bit of a limp, has already made an a two-part corrective surgery, one in February 2009 and another in May. 
“You don’t even have your knee strong enough, and on top of that I had to have a bone graft done, which took three more months to heal,” she said “So I had added time on top of the fact that I had to have ACL sur­gery, so it was 

impact on both sides of the ball for Notre Dame. In just her second  “I’m just trying to give it everything I have and see where  r e c o v e r i n g , and building up your mus-cle just to lose  
game back, a 74­69 win over  that takes me.”  it again.” Peters  said  
Vanderbilt  on  she  has  not  
Dec.  30,  she  Devereaux Peters  resorted  to  
recorded  eight  Irish forward  good  luck  

points, seven rebounds and four blocks in 14 minutes of play. 
After that game, Irish coach Muffet McGraw said she thought Peters was the player of the game and joked that they would “expect her to do that every game.” 
And while Peters has contin­ued to play at a high standard 
— she averages 5.1 points, 5.3 rebounds and more than one block and steal per game, and put up a team-high 12 points in Notre Dame’s loss to Connecticut — she said she feels no demands from her coach or her teammates. 
“Obviously I want to [improve], but there’s not any added pressure,” Peters said. “You can see how well the team does out there without me. I obviously want to do really well every game, but if I don’t it’s not like the team’s on my shoulders. They’re perfect­ly fine on their own.” 
Nor does Peters feel she is close to being fully recovered. In 23 games before her first knee injury as a freshman, she averaged nine points, 5.6 rebounds and 1.96 blocks, good enough to be named to the Big East All-Freshman team. However, her injuries have stopped her from adding to that potential. 
“Obviously you’re not going to come back all the way, 100 percent from where you were,” Peters said. “I’m trying to take it slow, trying to be easy on myself a little bit. It’s kind of difficult. I don’t see myself get­ting back fully until probably next season, so I’m just trying to give it everything I have and see where that takes me.” 
Peters tore her ACL the first time on Feb. 10, 2008, in the second half of a game against then-No. 15 Pittsburgh. After corrective surgery in April 2008, she was able to play at the beginning of the 2008-09 season, even earning a start against Evansville on Nov. 19, 2008. 
In the third game of the sea­son, against Boston College on Nov. 23, Peters played just four minutes before re-injuring her knee. She played 12 more min­utes in the game with just a lit­tle discomfort, but later found out she had re-torn the ACL. 
“The first one was pretty tough,” Peters said. “By the time I did the second one it was really frustrating, but then halfway through that it’s just old news. You kind of get used to it. It wasn’t as frustrating I guess the second time because it’s kind of like been there, done that. I was used to it. 
“A lot of my friends were mad at me because I didn’t even tell them I had to have another surgery because it was just second nature for me then. It was just like ‘Oh, yeah, I’m having surgery in the morning, whatever.’” 
This time Peters had to have charms as she 
continues her recovery, but rather has worked hard and will continue to do so in order to strengthen her knee and get back to full form. 
“It was a lot of work,” she said. “You really have to be mentally tough to get through something like that. I really respect people who have torn their ACL because it’s tough.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers@nd.edu 
Depth 
continued from page 20 
While the Irish opened the season ranked No. 30 in the nation, Bayliss doesn’t worry about the polls early in the year. 
“I don’t put a lot of stock in rankings, especially pre-season ones,” Bayliss said. “Ours is based primarily on last year’s finish. I think we are better than that.” 
The Irish also have four play­ers with singles preseason rank­ings including freshman Blas Moros (No. 74), sophomore Casey Watt (No. 18), and juniors Stephen Havens (No. 93) and 
Espinoza 
continued from page 20 
extremely encouraging to her teammates and always takes time to help them with their throw­ing.” 
Espinoza’s progression as ath­lete and as a person has not been one without adversity or chal­lenges. Regardless, she has Dan Stahl (No. 95). 
Bayliss said the Irish will need to rely on their doubles teams to pull out the doubles point and start the matches off strong. 
“We have been working hard on our doubles this year, as well as trying to concentrate on the areas of individual weakness that each of our players has,” Bayliss said. “I can honestly say that critical decisions still need to be made regarding both who and what combinations will step out on the court. Watt and [Tyler] Davis played together last fall and had some good results, but they need to buy into a system that gives them a bet­ter chance to win, playing high­er percentages and being more 
achieved success at every level and continues to improve. 
“During her time here, I have seen Jaclyn become a very confi­dent person as well as an ath­lete,” Beltran said. “During my first year here at Notre Dame, she hardly spoke and could get a little rattled at major meets. Since then, she has learned to use her voice which has allowed her to become an effective team leader and rise to the occasion of compe­consistent, or perhaps find other partners. 
“Havens and Fitzgerald have been a pleasant surprise so far. After that it will be our chal­lenge to find a solid No. 3 team.” 
After losing seven matches last season by a score of 4-3, the Irish come their experience in close matches will result in more wins in the spring. 
The Irish are 2-1 after open­ing the season with wins over William & Mary and IUPUI but falling 7-4 to No. 2 Virginia. They will return to the court Saturday to face Tulsa in Columbus, Ohio. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
tition.” 
As a senior, Espinoza will get her last crack at a national cham­pionship in the discus, her pre­miere event. One aspect that bodes well for her is that the NCAA Championships, should she qualify, would be a homecoming and an opportunity to have a per­fect finish to a stellar career. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  
22  23  24  25  26  
27  28  29  30  
31  32  33  34  35  
36  37  38  39  40  
41  42  43  
44  45  46  47  
48  49  50  51  52  53  
54  55  
56  57  58  59  60  61  
62  63  64  
65  66  67  


Tuesday, January 26, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 

Across 31Item made from 1 Material for 
20-Across informal jackets 33Goofs or skirts 
36Hosiery hue 6 Building block 

37One given awaybrand 
by her father,10City on theArno often 

14“Gentlemen 39Secluded valleyPrefer Blondes” 
41Washed-up starwriter Loos 43Grammarian's15Like slander, as concern
opposed to libel 44Mandlikova of
16Bartlett's abbr. 
tennis17Attendant at a 45Krazy ___ of the'50s dance? 

comics19Occupy the 47Miami-to-Bostonthrone dir.

20Animals farmed 48Street urchins
for their fur 21Goodyear's Ohio 
51Acupuncturist? headquarters 54Pakistan's chief 22Personnel river concern for 55All lathered upSanta? 
56Injure, as the 26Tuckered out knee 27Mule of song 57Addicted to 28Tofu source shopping? 29List-ending abbr. 62Walk wearily 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


63The brother in “Am I mybrother's keeper?”
64Item in “Poor Richard's Almanack” 
65Places for props
66Many adoptees
67Curtain fabric 
Down 
1 MorseT 2 Brian of ambient 
music 3 Sip from a flask 4 Response to
“Who's there?” 
5 Henri who painted “TheDance” 
6 Subdued in manner 7 Shake an EtchA Sketch 8 Needle-nosed fish 9 Jolly ___ Saint Nick 
10Ads aimed at hikers and picnickers?
11 Toughen, as to hardship
12Athenian 
lawgiver
13With regard to
18Inner: Prefix 
21“Chop-chop!,” on 
a memo 
22To be, to Brutus 
23Gate fastener 
24Botanist's study
25Pinochle lay-
down 
30Gift in a long,thin box 
32Money forliquor? 
WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Puzzle by Robert A. Doll  
33Break a commandment  43Ideal, butimpractical  52It might have a single coconut 
34Botanist's study35Musical repetition mark37Gridder Roethlisberger38Collect, as rewards 40Not e'en once 42Jazz combo  45Rounded hills 4663-Across's father 48Cirrus cloud formations 49Aspat covers it 50Dostoyevsky tree 53Singer Lauper 57Explorer's aid 58Actor Vigoda 59Aykroyd of“Ghostbusters” 60Swelled head  
member  novel, with “The”  61La-Z-Boy spot  

For answers, call1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are availablefor the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&Tusers:Text NYTX to 386to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions:Today's puzzleand more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Tuesday, January 26, 2010 page 20 
ND TRACK & FIELD 

Thrower Espinoza brings leadership to Irish squad 
By MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Jaclyn Espinoza has become a standout on the Irish squad this year in more ways than one. Not only is the All-American thrower starting the season with notable results, she’s also becoming a leader among her teammates. 
The Oregon native has gotten off to a fast start this season with a fourth-place finish at last weekend’s Notre Dame Invitational, helping the women’s side to win the event. In the Notre Dame Indoor Opener on Jan. 15, Espinoza finished third with a Big East qualifying throw of 13.71 meters, and at the Blue and Gold Meet in December she finished second. 
Espinoza burst onto the throw­ing scene when she qualified for the NCAA Outdoor Championships as a freshman in the discus and the shot put, one of only two throwers in her class to accomplish that feat. She also earned All-Big East honors that year with a second-place finish at the Big East outdoor champi­onships in the discus. 
Her sophomore year featured more of the same outstanding performances. Espinoza earned All-Big East honors again with appearances in the Big East Indoor and Outdoor Championships and a spot in the NCAA Outdoor Championships. 
In 2009, things got even better for Espinoza. With a Big East outdoor title in the discus and a third place finish at the NCAA outdoor championships, she became the first Irish athlete to earn All-American honors in the discus. 
“She is a student of her trade, and has a real understanding of her sport that helps her win even though she is always the smallest person out there,” throwing coach Adam Beltran said. “She simply refuses to lose. 
“Whether it requires a 6 a.m. lift or a 9 p.m. throwing session, Jaclyn will do it without com­plaint and get the job done,” Beltran said. 
In terms of her leadership, her positive attitude has rubbed off on her teammates and has creat­ed a sense of oneness on the squad. 
“Jaclyn has been an amazing leader,” Beltran said. “She has really stepped up in helping culti­vate the new freshman throwers. Even though she is one of the best in the country, she is 
see ESPINOZA/page 18 


MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Abromaitis evolves into deadly offensive weapon 
By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
As Tim Abromaitis lined up a free throw near the end of Notre Dame’s 87-77 win over DePaul Saturday, a desperate Blue Demon fan screamed, “Who are you?” 
Thanks to his performance, not just against DePaul but this whole season, now we know. 
Abromaitis scored 30 points and hit five 3-pointers in the game Saturday, one point off his season high of 31 against Central Florida, the first game he started. He’s started every game since. 
For someone who didn’t play a single minute last sea­son, that’s quite a transfor­mation. But not if you ask those who saw him last sea­son — Irish coach Mike Brey said there were some days in 
see ABROMAITIS/page 17 
Stepping up 

VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer Junior forward Tim Abromaitis dunks during Notre Dame’s 87-77 win over DePaul Saturday. Abromaitis scored 30 points to lead the Irish and is averaging 16.7 points per game. 
HOCKEY 
ND moves up CCHA standings 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
Two weeks ago Notre Dame was in a three-way tie for seventh place in the CCHA after being swept at home by No.11 Ferris State. 
After gaining four points against No. 18 Lake Superior State this past weekend, the Irish have come into sole pos­session of sixth place, and are a mere three points behind fourth-place Lake Superior. Irish coach Jeff Jackson said the team realized the dire position it was in after the Ferris State sweep, and set to playing its way back into con­tention. 
“They are playing like they have their backs against the wall,” he said. “I give them a lot of credit to play with that sense of urgency that we do 
see CCHA/page 17 

ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Peters undeterred by injuries 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Two years is a long time for a scholarship athlete to go without running. 
Junior forward Devereaux Peters faced that very problem when she took the floor on Dec. 29 against Central Florida. It was Peters’ first time in a game in more than a year after tearing the anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) in her right knee two straight times. 
“I was kind of nervous, just because it’d been like two years since I’d really run,” Peters said. “I would joke around with the team, they were telling me I only had 10 minutes so I told them ‘If I get 
see PETERS/page 18 

MEN’S TENNIS 
Experience, depth give Bayliss lineup options 
By KATELYN GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
If this year’s Irish team does­n’t meet expectations, experi­ence and depth certainly won’t be to blame. 
Notre Dame returns all but one player from last year’s squad and adds three fresh­men, resulting in a team that gives Irish coach Bobby Bayliss some unique challenges. 
“The biggest challenges fac­ing us this year involve two things: dealing with one of the country’s most difficult sched­ules and keeping a very deep team happy with ample playing opportunities,” Bayliss said. “I feel we are good enough to take on this schedule, but we need to be sufficiently resilient to han­dle some losses and rebound well to take advantage of the large number of opportunities that we will have. 
“As for playing time, I believe that this might be the deepest team we have ever had in my 23-year Notre Dame tenure. We have 10 players who have done well as starters, or are impact freshmen.” 
Bayliss understands that with only graduating one starter from last season’s roster and adding three solid freshmen this season it will be difficult to get everyone ample playing time consistently. 
see DEPTH/page 18 






