the
Observer 

Student underage drinking arrests slow 
Meetings this week between student representatives, South Bend Police Department result in increased cooperation 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editor 
Since representatives from the University and student gov­ernment met with local law enforcement at the beginning of the month, the number of stu­dents arrested for underage drinking has decreased. 
This change came as a result of increased cooperation and understanding on both sides, student body president Catherine Soler said after meet­ing with representatives from the South Bend Police Department (SBPD) and Indiana State Excise Police this week. 
“To be honest, they were both as happy about it as we were. I think this has caused a lot ten­sion in the community,” Soler said. “Everyone is just really happy to be moving forward in a productive manner.” 

From Aug. 21 to Sept. 2, police sent roughly 70 students to jail for alcohol-related charges. Since then, eight stu­dents were arrested and nine said Indiana State Excise Police but there were few under 21 at a Sept. 10 incident on the Cleveland said his meeting were issued citations for minor Commander Lt. Tim Cleveland. that were actually consuming 1000 Block of N. Lawrence with representatives from Notre consuming, according to police Cleveland said these students alcohol,” he said. “Everyone Street. Officers arrested two Dame resulted in greater logs. were issued citations, rather was cooperative and polite and and cited four for minor con-understanding of the 
Excise police issued five cita-than arrested, because they mutually respectful so that suming at a Sept. 17 incident on University’s perspective, and he tions to Notre Dame students at were cooperative. makes a big difference.” the 200 block of S. St. Louis said he thought the University an incident early Sunday morn-“From my understanding, SBPD arrested six underage Boulevard, according to police ing at 1632 Turtle Creek Court, there were a lot of people there, students for minor consuming logs. see ARRESTS/page 8 



Wall Street Journal ranks colleges on recruiting 

By LAURA MCCRYSTAL 
News Editor 
Job recruiters ranked Notre Dame No. 22 for producing the most well-prepared and likely to succeed graduates, according to The Wall Street Journal’s new ranking system for undergraduate colleges and universities. 
Penn State topped the list of 25 schools released last week. Notre Dame was one of only six private universities listed in this new ranking sys­tem, and one of six schools ranked in U.S. News & World Report’s top 25 national uni­versities. 
Jennifer Merritt, who led 
see JOURNAL/page 8 



Formerbiologyprof.diesat92 
By LAURA MCCRYSTAL 
News Editor 
Julian Pleasants, associate professor emeritus of biological sciences at Notre Dame, died Sept. 17 at the age of 92, according to a University press release. 
Pleasants graduated from Notre Dame in 1939 and began working at LOBUND,the University’s germ-free research center, in 1944, according to the press release issued Thursday. He earned his doctorate in micro­biology from Notre Dame in 1966, and worked in germ-free research for the rest of his career. 
In addition to his work teach­ing and researching at Notre Dame, Pleasants worked throughout his life as a Catholic social activist and peace activist. He joined the Catholic Worker movement at the end of the Great Depression. In 1941, he helped create South Bend’s first Catholic Worker house of hos­pitality to serve meals made from Notre Dame’s dining hall leftovers to unemployed men. As a member of the Catholic Worker movement he joined a community of Catholic social activists, which included Catholic writer and editor Eugene Geissler and Notre Dame professor Willis Nutting. 

He began to correspond with his future wife, Mary Jane Brady, when she was editor of “Life and Home” magazine. They married in 1948. 
In 1949, Pleasants, his wife and other members of the Notre Dame theology program, in which he studied for a mas­ter’s degree, purchased an 80­acre farm in Granger to live in a communal, religious setting and work closely with the land. He and his wife raised seven children in that community. 
The Pleasants were also founding members of Little Flower Catholic Church. Pleasants, his family and other members of the community sought to integrate faith, Catholic liturgy, social justice and the importance of life into their lifestyles. 
He was a volunteer at South Bend’s Logan Center and a founding member of Friends of l’Arche, both of which serve the developmentally disabled. 
Pleasants died at the Sanctuary at Holy Cross. He is survived by three daughters, four sons and 17 grandchil­dren. 
There will be a visitation today from 5 to 7 p.m. and a Mass of Christian Burial Saturday, both at Little Flower Catholic Church on 54191 Ironwood Rd. Contributions in Pleasants’ memory can be made to the Logan Center or Little Flower Catholic Church. 


Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER LilyTomlintovisitSMConMonday page5WallStreetGreedisn’tgood—it’sgreat page12  VolleyballstartsBigEastseason page24Viewpoint page6 

THE OBSERVER 
THE HOT SEAT: ONE PERSON, FIVE QUESTIONS, INFINITE POSSIBILITIES 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 

Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 

What has been your greatest 


moment in volleyball? 
Probably beating Stanford in three [sets] last year. We owned them. It was sweet. 

What is your sports career goal? 
To have fun. And win ... obviously.” 
If you weren’t playing volley­ball, what sport would you 

play? 
Snowboarding or surfing. 
Who is your favorite Notre 

Dame football player? 
I can’t even choose. I just love football and all of the players so much! 

What teammate of yours is the loudest on the court? 
[Junior libero] Frenchy [Silva]. She’s a feisty one. 



Know someone who should be in the hot seat? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 

Woman battles bear with zucchini 
HELENA, Mont. — A Montana woman fended off a bear trying to muscle its way into her home Thursday by pelting the animal with a large piece of zucchini from her gar­den. 
The woman suffered minor scratches and one of her dogs was wounded after tussling with the 200­pound bear. 
The attack happened just after midnight when the woman let her three dogs into the backyard for their nighttime ritual before she headed to bed, Missoula County Sheriff’s Lt. Rich Maricelli said. Authorities believe the black bear was just 25 yards away, eating apples from a tree. 
Two of the dogs sensed the bear, began barking and ran away, Maricelli said. The third dog, a 12­year-old collie that wasn't very mobile, remained close to the woman as she stood in the doorway of the home near Frenchtown in western Montana. 
Before she knew what was happening, the bear was on top of the dog and batting the collie back and forth, Maricelli said. 
Toilet-paper bandit pleads guilty to robbery 
LINCOLN, Neb. — The so-called “toilet-paper bandit” has pleaded guilty to attempted robbery in Lincoln. Sentencing is set Oct. 28 for 29-year-old Joshua F. Nelson, of Lincoln. Nelson made his plea Wednesday in Lincoln County District Court after an agreement with prose­cutors, who had lowered the charge and dismissed a weapons count. 
Nelson faces a maximum of 20 years in prison. 
Police said Nelson con­cealed his face by wrap­ping his head with toilet paper to rob a Lincoln con­venience store on April 24. He was armed with a knife, but no one was hurt in the robbery. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The classic film The Bad and the Beautiful will be shown tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Cost is $3 for students. 
Illusionish Mike Super will perform tonight at 9 p.m. in Washington Hall. Line forms at 8 
p.m. and doors open at 8:30 p.m. The event is sponsored by the student activities office. 
The Stanford Weekend Book Signings start today at 1 p.m. at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. Laurie Wenger will be signing P.L.A.C.T. (Play Like a Champion Today). 
John Warner, co-founder, chief technology officer and chairman of the board of the Warner Babcock Institute for Green Chemistry will present “Twelve Priciples of Green Chemistry” Saturday at 10 a.m. The lecture is part of the College of Science’s Saturday Exploration Series. The event is open to faculty, staff and students and will take place in room 101 of the Jordan Hall of Science. 
Robert Sullivan, associate pro­fessor of the department of histo­ry, will give his talk “Mercifully Eradicating the Irish: the Strange Case of Lord Macaulay” on Saturday at noon. The event will take place in the Snite Museum’s Annenberg Auditorium. Faculty, staff, stu­dents and the public are welcome to attend. 
Notre Dame’s Biology Club is hosting a Vision Walk Sunday. The registration for the event will take place at noon at the Morris Inn. The cost is $10 for students and $15 for non-students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Molly Madden Meaghan Veselik Megan Doyle Allan Joseph Caitlin Housley Scene Graphics Ankur Chawla Gaspar Garcia de Viewpoint Paredes Michelle Maitz 
Photo 
Suzanna Pratt 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Game day sunday monday tuesday 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 




72 60 HIGH 6566 6368
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

69 52 LOW 4947 5053 










CareerFairyieldsjobsforsome 


The early start certainly paid 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
off for senior Vince 
News Writer 
Montalbano, who attended career fairs both his sopho-
Some senior students spent more and junior the past two weeks in a blur of years. Montalbano said he résumés, business suits and received an follow-up interviews after internship last Dame,” Montalbano said. 
Students secured 1,700 internship through the Career Center last year, and Svete said he hopes more of these internships will lead to job offers like in the case of 
attending the Fall Career Fair summer with IT “We are seeing, at Montalbano. at the Joyce Athletics and consulting com-least in the industries “We are see-Convocation Center on Sept. 8. pany Accenture ing, at least in 
for business and
Director of the Career Center after talking to the industries 
engineering, between
Lee Svete said the fair brought their representa-for business 138 potential employers to tive at the fair 80 and 90 percent of and engineer-Notre Dame. his junior year. ing, between 
students who did
“We found that more employ-The internship 80 and 90 per-
summer internships
ers had more jobs and intern-led to a recent cent of stu­ships this year,” Svete said. job offer that are getting job dents who did “Also, more companies were Montalbano said s u m m e r
offers.” 
willing to travel to the event.” he is strongly internships are 
Over 2,000 students ranging c o n s i d e r i n g . getting job from freshmen to seniors Montalbano said Lee Svete offers,” Svete attended the event. he was most director said. “That’s 
“What we’re really seeing in impressed by the huge, since it 
Career Center 
Notre Dame students is that they’re smart, and freshmen and sophomores are coming out,” Svete said. “They’re checking out the career fair, handing out resumes and pick­ing up business cards.” 
quality of compa­nies who attend­ed Notre Dame’s career fairs in the past. 
“It’s great to know that top­notch firms are looking to recruit people from Notre means our 
Notre Dame students are performing at high levels.” 
Some students’ internships were so successful that the companies where they interned last summer asked the students to help out as recruiters at the fair earlier this month. 
“Employers are realizing that they can utilize students who have experienced the company culture,” Svete said. “It gives other students a feel­ing of comfort and connection because they see one of their peers.” 
According to Svete, 600 interviews took place the day after the career fair. 
“Our performance in inter­views seemed to be very posi­tive,” Svete said. “We have stu­dents who are having second round interviews as early as tomorrow in places such as Chicago and New York.” 
However, many companies don’t interview the next day or even within the next few weeks, he said. Job offers could potentially take a while to materialize. 
“In certain industries, such as publishing and public rela­tions, that job offer won’t come until later,” Svete said. “Those decisions won’t be made until March.” 
Svete said he wants students to know that if they didn’t find success at the career fair that there are still many opportuni­ties for students to make con­nections with companies. Two upcoming events are the Winter Career Fair and the Post-Graduate Service Fair, which takes place Sept. 29. 
Senior Liz Young attended the Fall Career Fair, but said she is more excited for the service fair coming up. 
“Considering my interests, I’m much more interested in the Post-Graduate Service Career Fair coming up,” Young said. “But it was definitely good to go and see what it’s like and get practice present­ing your professional case to a business.” 
In addition to the events on campus, there will be five career fairs over winter break in various cities such as Boston and New York. Notre Dame shares these fairs with other top-tier schools, such as Vassar and Cornell. Svete said these have been highly effec­tive. 
Eighty-two percent of the Class of 2010 graduated from Notre Dame with at least one job offer, Svete said. 


Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 




Saint Mary’s course promotes learning by doing 
Public communications students teach courses on speech at Center for Homeless, receive award for service 

By CAITLIN HOUSLEY 
News Writer 
Learning through doing, is the goal of one of Saint Mary’s public communication courses. 
Saint Mary’s communication professor, Dr. Terri Russ and many public communication students were honored Tuesday with the Volunteer of the Year award from the Center for the Homeless in South Bend. 
The award honored students who devoted their time to teaching the Center’s guests the importance of public speech. The course, which has been offered for three semesters at the College, is not a typical lec­ture class. Instead, the students become the teacher and apply their learning to real world sit­uations. 
Russ was the brain behind the idea of sending students into the South Bend communi­ty. She said she is a strong advocate of hands-on learning and wanted to develop some­thing beyond the lecture-style used in the classroom. 
“I thought I would privilege the ‘public’ part of public com­munication and actually take the class into the public,” Russ said. 
She also wanted to prove to her students that youth does not restrict them from making a difference in the community. 
“We have an obligation as cit­izens to give to the community in any way we can,” she said, “As little as an hour a week can have a tremendous impact on the world.” 
The class is devoted to help­ing guests tell their own per­sonal story by enhancing the guests’ communication skills. At the end of the semester, Russ said the class assembles a narrative of the guests’ stories, and the guests will present their own speech about their lives. 
Senior Katrina Mesina said she went into the class with her own personal aspirations. 
“Identity is such a big part of who a person is, and some­times, that can be lost,” Mesina said. “We wanted to restore people’s self-images and we did so by working one on one with our guests to help them form [these] speeches about their lives.” 
The class worked with a number of different age groups including small children and mothers. 
Senior Emily Treat worked with Club PS, a club devoted to educating the children of the Center. Treat said it is impor­tant for children, not just adults, to learn public speaking skills. 
“Since they’re in their forma­tive years and highly suscepti­ble to growth and development, it is crucial that we not only teach them to express them­selves, but serve as role models for success and help steer them in the right direction as well,” Treat said. 
Treat and others who worked with Club PS used games to help the kids warm up to the idea of public speech. Last ses­sion, they played “telephone,” demonstrating the difference between good and bad commu­nication. 
Treat said the class has been a powerful experience for her and many other students because it has taught them they have the power to have a posi­tive change on the community. 
“I’m learning that I can make a real difference in the quality of life for these children just by being there and showing them I care,” Treat said. “It’s amazing to me to see a child who’s in the lowest of spirits and refuses to participate slowly open up to us in a matter of a half hour.” 
Senior Anne Sofranko said the class helped her learn more about her relationship with common stereotypes. 
“This course really helps you see that you shouldn’t stereo­type and judge other people because you never know where they have come from and what they have been through,” Sofranko said. 
Sofranko’s experience taught her about poverty, one of Russ’ goals for the class. 
“Poverty is a cycle and isn’t necessarily a reflection of the person. Societal pressures can also be to blame,” Russ said. 
Mesina said she will never doubt the role the class played in her life. 
“I learned a lot about the power of the human spirit. It can be broken down, but with patience, care, and support you can build it up again,” Mesina said, “The residents at the Center for the Homeless remind me ever day that there are prejudices in our world and if we do not take the time to look past them, we can miss out on relationships and expe­riences with wonderful people.” 
Russ said out of her entire career, her work with the pub­lic communications class made her the most proud. 


Contact Caitlin Housley at chousl01@saintmarys.edu 






Award-winning Tomlin to dicuss theatre at SMC 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Emmy and Tony award win­ning actress Lily Tomlin will speak on Saint Mary’s campus Monday in O’Laughlin Auditorium at 7:30 p.m. 
“An Evening with Lily Tomlin” will be hosted by the theater department’s Margaret Hill endowed lecture series, which has brought figures such as actress Glenn Close and director Hal Prince to campus in previous years. 
As part of Tomlin’s visit, she will teach a class before the lecture on Monday. Students in the theater class, which is closed to the public, will pres­ent what they have worked on with Tomlin and she will pro­vide feedback, as well as share her own professional knowledge with them. 


“If you had a for­mula, that would be great, but you don’t exactly,” Tomlin said. “If by being [in the class] and exchanging my own expe­riences and whatever knowl­edge I’ve gleaned over all these years and have a real exchange with the students, hopefully I’ll learn some­thing.” 
Tomlin was born in Detroit, Mich. She said she started performing on the back porch of her home for her parents. 
Tomlin talked about growing up in an apartment that had characters who inspired her to imitate them and put on shows for her families, or anyone who would watch. 
“Over time, it’s like you develop a kind of fascination with it — a love and feeling for all these different types of humans,” she said. 
Originally, Tomlin attended Wayne State University to study medicine, but was attracted to her elective cours­es in theater instead because she wanted to express herself. 

“I always wanted to express something — and that has to be part of something all actors want to do — it’s expressing something about the human condition or other human beings,” Tomlin said. 
Tomlin started her career in coffeehouses and cafes in New York, and since has had count­less roles in television, film and stage. Just a few of her projects include “Laugh-In,” “The Lily Tomlin Show” and “Murphy Brown,” on televi­sion, onstage she performed in “Appearing Nitely” and “The Search” and was featured in the films “Big Business,” “I Heart Huckabees” and “A Prairie Home Companion.” 
Tomlin’s own experiences vary widely, but theater is her favorite medium. 
“[Theater is] the thing I like most because I like the imme­diacy,” she said. “I’m glad I have the chance to do a little bit of anything.” 
Tomlin is known for her comedy, but the actress has played dramatic roles as well. 
“I didn’t really see an incredible difference between [comedy and drama,]” Tomlin said. “It is all similar things, a continuum. You lean one way or the other. It’s the capacity of every human to be as dra­matic or comedic, as sad or as funny at any moment.” 
Throughout her career, Tomlin worked with other actors such as Bette Midler, Steve Martin, Glenn Close, Martin Short and several more. She said some of her favorite moments are particu­lar scenes that stand out to her. 
One example she gave was a scene in director Robert Altman’s movie “Short Cuts” when the actress playing her daughter hands her a plastic bag with goldfish. 
“There is some tiny moment, that maybe it doesn’t even register for the audience. There is just a moment there and it just rings so true for me that I just love it,” Tomlin said. 
Tomlin said acting should give people a way to come together. 
“I think in some way it just elevates you as a human, and somehow you hope that that familiarity with other people sort of validates all of us,” Tomlin said. “If we all find the same things moving or funny, then there is a huge connec­tion there.” 
For acting students, Tomlin said she had “homely advice” that she said may have stemmed from her own upbringing and the generation she grew up in. 
“That could be a factor of the time I came up in, if you had any kind of awareness or consciousness, the last thing you wanted to do was do something for money,” Tomlin said. “You wanted to do some­thing for excellence or to make a contribution — to be a real artist.” 


Contact Ashley Charnley at acharnl01@saintmarys.edu 




Pre-game tailgate promotes departmental unity 
Economics faculty, staff, students and friends bond over burgers, brats and games at traditional football ritual. 
By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
Notre Dame’s Department of Economics wants students to know they have the world’s largest economics tailgate. 
The Department of Economics has spent every home football Saturday offering a tailgate for its majors and other students that want to attend. 
The Department started its tailgates two years ago as a means to meet colleagues’ fam­ilies but became an annual event during the 2009 season. 
Each home game tailgate draws in an average of 50 to 75 people, most of whom are department faculty members, their families or their friends. Occasionally, former students who are in town for the games will stop by and participate at the tailgate as well, Eric Sims, professor of economics, said. 
The economics tailgates offer its attendees burgers, brats and pulled pork sandwiches and games of cornhole. 
“We like grilled meat,” said professor of economics Bill Evans. 
Evans and Sims organize the tailgates and send out an e-mail to the staff and students in the department to advertise. 
Evans and Sims said the tail­gates begin between 6 a.m. and 7 a.m. and generally take place south of Notre Dame Stadium in the Joyce Center parking lot. 
Although other University departments including the Investment Office, The Center for Culture and Ethics and the Alliance for Catholic Education also host tailgates for their members, Sims said his depart­ment’s tailgate is different. 
“I think that it’s unique in that we have near universal participation among faculty members in this department,” Sims said. “It’s also unique because we have aflag.” 
Assistant Professor of Economics Kasey Buckles designed the flag, which is bright yellow with the phrase “Supplying Spirit, Demanding Victory.” 
Sims said he sees the depart­ment tailgate as something more than a game day event. 
“[The purpose of the tail­gates] is to bring the Department together as a fami­ly and to unite together in our support of our University and our football team,” he said. “I think our Department is unique in that everyone gets along well and we’re all committed to the department succeeding and the University as a whole succeed-


College introduces new events calendar 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame has launched a new electronic events calendar that delivers information about Notre Dame activi­ties to your desktop, your smart phone and to per­sonal electronic calendars 
such  as  Outlook  and  
Google.  
The  new  site,  

calendar.nd.edu, phases out the former agenda.nd.edu for a visu­ally lively homepage of pictures and clearly identi­fied events of the day. 
New features will be phased into the calendar in the coming months. Among them, faculty, staff, students, community mem­bers and visitors will be able to subscribe to the events they most care about, and receive updates via RSS technologies. The calendar also links to map.nd.edu to provide immediate information on directions. 
The new calendar was developed over the past year by a student and staff committee including spe­cialists from the Offices of Public Affairs and Communications, 
Information Technologies and several administrative 
and  academic  depart - 
ments.  
“There is an  amazing  

array of speakers and experiences on campus,” says Todd Woodward, asso­ciate vice president for marketing communica­tions. “We were looking for a tool that was easy for community event planners to get the word out about what those experiences are, and to allow people to find them and use them on their own.” 
The planning committee, led by calendar editor Jennifer Laiber, searched for a tool that comple­mented the needs of a uni­versity community, Woodward adds. “This new platform has proven to be successful in the higher education environment. It was developed at Yale and is used at campuses including Duke University.” 
Complementing the new calendar, Laiber is manag­ing a comprehensive train­ing program so faculty, staff and student event coordinators can submit their events as they are planned. 

ing.” the tailgates. However, he is 
Sims said members from the happy with the current state of Department of Economics now the tailgates: good food in a get together to watch the away good environment for the facul­games as well. ty members and their families 
Evans said he hopes that, in to spendtime together. the future, a donor will endow “We enjoy that almost as much as we enjoy winning, but our demand for victory has exceeded the supply,” Sims said. 


Contact Marisa Iati at marisa.s.iati.1@nd.edu 





Hackett speaks on CRS for Forum 



By MADELINE ROE 
News Writer 
Dr. Ken Hackett, President of Catholic Relief Services (CRS), explained the fundamental Catholic identity and history of the international charity organi­zation Thursday night as part of theNotre DameForum. 
For the second annual Rev. Bernie Clark, C.S.C., lecture, the topic “Globally Engaging Charity in Truth” alluded to Hackett’s integration of Pope Benedict XVI’s encyclical “Caritas in Veritate” into CRS. 
“At CRS we have taken a lot of time to examine what’s inside these documents,” Hackett said. “It reminded us thathumanitari­an action should be rooted in a selfless love that should always be done inaspiritofhumility.” 
Hackett, who oversees approx­imately 5,000 employees in over 100 countries, approached the task of aiding world disasters with a definitive mission adher­ingtoCatholicSocialTeaching. 
“Integral human develop­ment, that I would contend, sets CRS apart from the many humanitarian agencies that appear to look just like us,” Hackett said. “We consciously tryto incorporate Catholic Social Teaching in everything we do. What mightbe surprisingto you, we haven’t always been good at integratingthesethings.” 
Hackett reflected on the devel­opment of CRS by defining “three phases of history,” in which he perceived “lenses” of the world and how to address specificissues. 
First, Hackett described the “social welfare lens” in the beginning stageofformingCRS. 
In the context of the “darkest days of WWII,” CRS focused on the corporal works of mercy and established a network of inter­national institutions, called “Caritas Internationalis,” that stillfunctiontoday. 
“Catholic identity was strong but it was difficult to look intro­spectively,”Hackett said. 
The “social development” stage in the 60s and 70s was geared towards “providing sus­tainable solutions,” but Hackett said there was an absence of a Catholic identity. 
“We became to look more and more like any other NGO,” he said. 
The important shift of the organization to Catholic Social Teaching occurred through sev­eral tragic and personal experi­ences. Hackett said he was shocked to learn thatCRShadn’t provided fresh water to the peo­ple of Somalia but instead to a group of conquerors. 
After providing food amidst the ethnic tensions in Rwanda two years before the genocide of 1994, Hackett said the CRS real­ized the need to change the direction oftheirefforts. 
“800,000 were slaughtered in a most vicious way [in Rwanda]. It was horrific, andfor us, it was personal. Because CRS staff lost colleagues, friends, family mem­bers, it wasn’t something over there, it was in here — person­ally and institutionally,” he said. “And after the genocide, we learned a tough, bloody lesson: allthe good work we thought we weredoing …was notenough.” 
Hackett said that he and other CRS officials knew about the ethnic tensions between the Hutus and Tutsis that eventually led to genocide that claimed nearly one million lives. He said he regrets that he did nothing to address the issue before it was toolate. 
“That was politics. We did development,” he said. “We realized after that cleansing, a lot of weeping, and introspection andprayer that we as an agency had to start addressing justice issues in imbalance of society in Rwanda and imbalance of socie­ty elsewhere. And we started to incorporate a justice-centered focus worldwide.” 
Embracing the principles of solidarity within Catholic Social Teaching, CRS redefined the endeavors of the organization towards the human dignity of stricken people, as well as the employee relationships with one another. 
“Catholic Social Teaching is not just a theological exercise,” Hackett said. “It’s a practical and fundamental guide for how the church should live in the world. And we as an organiza­tion should transform ourselves to functioninthe world.” 
In the closing questions, an African priest from Darfur gave homage to Hackett’s work with CRS benefiting his people, yet posed the question of how the Catholic Social Teaching vision should appeal to the majority of CRS workers, who are not Christian. 
Hackett responded with the words ofSt.Francis. 
“‘Preach always, sometimes use words.’ We should be recog­nized by what we do and how wedo it,”Hackett said. 
Hackett closedby acknowledg­ing that people of all faiths iden­tify with the dignity of a human person. 
“You know who you are and you’re ready to say who you are, without boastfully pushing who you are. Do it with humility,” he said. 


Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens @nd.edu 


where they could get hit by a their part to mitigate conflict have activated their micro-how other universities inter-
car or something could hap-with police, Soler said. phones, but have not checked act with local law enforce-

Arrests 
continued from page 1 
better understood his side as well. 
“Hopefully we’ve all seen a move in the positive direc­tion,” he said. 
Cleveland said he encour­aged his officers to issue cita­tions, rather than arrest, when underage students are respectful and it is safe to release them. 
“I have encouraged my offi­cers to use some discretion on whether or not they arrest or whether they cite and release,” he said. “Obviously, we’re not going to cite and release someone who tests .20 because that’s a liability for us to have someone who is under 21 and who is twice the legal limit walking around pen to them.” “Students have made more 

Nick Ruof, chief of staff, efforts to be safe and respect-who also ful and that’s attended the definitely paying meetings with off,” she said. the police, Soler said the 
“I have encouraged
said officers meetings were are, in gener-my offcers to use also informative al, using more some discretion on about the inter-discretion. nal workings of 
whether or not they
“They are the police sys ­
arrest or whether
using discre -tem. tion when they they cite and After the first start issuing set of meetings 
release.” 
[minors in with the consumption] University and or when they Tim Cleveland student govern-approach a Indiana excise police ment, SBPD offi­situation with cers began to underage activate body drinkers,” he microphones, said. “They which would are using a lot more discre-record interactions when tion than they would before.” busting parties. 
But students have also done Soler said SBPD officers them yet because there has ment and Soler hopes to draw not been a com-up a more for-plaint about an mal definition interaction. of how the 
Ruof said he student body 
“Students have made
learned that relates with 
more efforts to be
underage stu -police. dents arrested safe and respectful She also for minor con -plans to com-
and that’s defnitely 
sumption do not pile a list of 
paying off.” 
have to be read Indiana’s alco­their rights. hol laws to 
“Even though Catherine Soler send students, they put you in student body president because some handcuffs, laws may be they’re not inter-different than rogating,” he in their home said. “The only states. time they are going to read Soler said, overall, the you your rights is if they meetings were productive. interrogate you about the sit-“It’s been a great effort on uation.” both parts,” she said. 
As a result of the meetings, student government created a Contact Sarah Mervosh at task force that will research smervosh@nd.edu 
“They asked how we made the list,” he said. 


Journal 

When he realized that other continued from page 1 elite universities were not on 
this list, however, he said his the project as The Wall Street surprise turned to elation Journal’s careers editor, said that Notre Dame was ranked. many college rankings look at Merritt said she was also the caliber of students who surprised by the survey’s out-enter the schools, but not as come, especially by compa­
t h e y  g r a d u a t e  n i e s ’  p r e f e r - 
a n d l o o k f o r jobs. Merritt and h e r c o l l e a g u e s w o r k e d f o r s i x  “The impetus for it really was that we wanted to fgure out  ence for larger state schools. “ I e x p e c t e d t h a t s o m e o f  
months survey-i n g r e c r u i t e r s b a s e d o n w h a t t h e y l o o k f o r  who was hiring, where they were hiring and why. Other  t h e c o m m o n wisdom would b e d e bu n ked , however I did- 
when they hire n e w c o l l e g e graduates. “ The i mpet us  rankings and studies look at things like SAT scores and GPAs  n’t expect that to be sort of as e x t r e m e a s i t wa s,” M e rr i t t  
for it really  was  ... And we decided to  said.  
that we wanted t o f i g u r e o u t who was hiring,  look at the other end of the equation, which  The surveys s h o w e d t h a t t h e p r i v a t e  
where they were hiring and why,” M e r r i t t s a i d . “Other rankings  is really, really important to people these days.”  u n i v e r s i t i e s that did make the list, how-e v e r, r e p r e - 
and studies look  sented  a  com­ 
a t t h i n g s l i k e SAT scores and GPAs … And we decided to look  Jennifer Merrit careers editor Wall Street Journal  b i n a t i o n o f p re p a re d n e s s a n d o t h e r q u a l i t i e s ,  
at the other end  M e r r i t t  s a i d .  

of the equation, which is real-Notre Dame ranked highly ly, really important to people because recruiters reported a these days.” commitment to integrity and 
Merritt said they asked ethics in its students. recruiters to measure stu-“Comments included things dents’ academic prepared-about the graduates being ness, ability to adapt quickly both academically prepared to a new job and ability to and able to sort of jump in succeed in companies. and contribute quickly at According to the report, 479 companies, but also — things recruiters completed the sur-that Notre Dame is kind of vey. famous for — having a really 
Lee Svete, director of Notre ethical approach to the way Dame’s Career Center, said he they carry themselves and do was surprised when he first business,” Merritt said. saw the Wall Street Journal’s These qualities are typical rankings. of Notre Dame students, but 
“My first reaction was may have also hurt Notre ‘we’re 22?’ We should be Dame in the overall ranking higher than that,” Svete said. process, Svete said. For 
Since last week, Svete said example, Notre Dame stu­he has received phone calls dents pursue diverse career from career counselors at options, including graduate Duke University, Stanford school and postgraduate serv-University, Princeton ice opportunities. Around 200 University and the University graduating seniors enter of Pennsylvania. service programs, which Svete said limits the number Institute of Technology and of graduates seeking employ-Carnegie Mellon University. ment. “Our size of institution, if 

“We’re different,” he said. you go with pure numbers of “Our graduates want to make placement of graduates in all a difference in the world in kinds of fields … we will not which they have the quanti­work. And that ty that Penn difference and “Our initial State has,” Svete that commit -impression is [Arts said. ment to faith The Wall 
and Letters students]
and communi-Street Journal’s ty in a residen-are very impressive research also tial, Catholic in the job market found compa ­institution, nies to prefer 
right now.” 
there’s differ-hiring students ent priorities. out of their And there ’s Lee Svete intern pool, as different val -director well as a ues.” decreasing
Career Center 
For Svete, desire for liberal the size of a arts majors, university also plays a large Merritt said. role. Notre Dame is the third Svete said Notre Dame Arts smallest school on The Wall and Letters students who Street Journal’s list, larger have internships do not face than only Massachusetts difficulty in their job search because internships serve as training experience. He did, however, agree with the find­ing that internships often lead to job opportunities. 
“Our initial impression is [Arts and Letters students] are very impressive in the job market right now,” he said. 
Merritt said the ranking list, which is on the Careers sec­tion of the Wall Street Journal’s website along with other information about job recruiting and career paths, marked the first time the newspaper focused on the job hiring process for new college graduates. 
“It got a lot of response,” she said. “We had more than a million page views for this and all the components of this in the first day and a half.” 


Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 





Journalist granted asylum after death threats 
Associated Press 
SAN ANTONIO — A Mexican journalist who was the target of death threats like those made by drug cartels says he has been granted asylum in the United States in a case believed to be the first of its kind since the country’s bloody drug war began. 
Two years ago, Jorge Luis Aguirre answered his cell phone while driving to the funeral of a colleague who had been killed in drug vio­lence. “You’re next,” warned the chilling voice on the other end. 
Death threats are at the heart of thousands of Mexican asylum requests received by the U.S. each year, but only a fraction of the petitions are granted. Even people who cross the border with fresh bullet wounds or whose fami­ly members have been tor­tured by drug gangs can face long odds. 
But attorneys say the deci­sion to give safe haven to Aguirre, editor of the Mexico news site LaPolaka.com, could open the door for other reporters covering the war. 
Violence against reporters has surged since the Mexican government launched a crackdown on drug traffick­ers nearly four years ago. 
El Paso attorney Carlos Spector is handling asylum cases for four journalists, including one who spent seven months in an immigra­tion detention facility. 
“What has changed is the situation in Mexico, where it’s now impossible to deny reali­ty,” Spector said. “It is an indication that the asylum office is now listening.” 
Aguirre (pronounced ah-gweer-EH) fled to El Paso after getting the threat in 2008 and has lived there ever since. He announced the asy­lum Monday on his website. 
At the time of the threat, he was reporting in Ciuidad Juarez, the epicenter of drug-gang violence across the bor­der from El Paso. 
It’s unclear exactly who threatened Aguirre. He told a 
U.S. Senate committee last year that officials in the state of Chihuahua did not like his criticism of a prosecutor and decided to adopt cartel-style tactics to tone him down. 
“I proved that it was politi­cal persecution,” the 52-year­old Aguirre told The Associated Press. “They threatened me many times and wrote to me, and I pre­sented all that as proof.” 
Fear of being hurt isn’t suf­ficient grounds for asylum. Cases hinge on proving that a person is being persecuted because of race, religion, political views, nationality or membership in a particular social group. 
Since 2000, a total of 65 journalists in Mexico have been killed in violence, according to Mexico’s National Commission on Human Rights, making Mexico the deadliest country in the world for news people. 

The asylum process is not public, and U.S. officials refused to comment on indi­vidual cases, citing the need to protect applicants. Both the State Department and 
U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services said they could not even confirm that Aguirre applied for asy­lum. 
But State Department spokesman Mark Toner said the government acknowledges the increasing danger to Mexican journalists, calling the number killed in the last five years “pretty startling.” 
“We obviously condemn these acts and have expressed our concerns about the safety of journalists to the Mexican government,” Toner said. 
Before Aguirre, the best-known Mexican journalist seeking asylum was Emilio Gutierrez Soto, who fled to El Paso after writing a series of stories about alleged Mexican military abuses of civilians. 


The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 10 Friday, September 24, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

A ‘Swift’ analysis 

I think it’s safe to say this campus has a thing for Taylor Swift. I won’t say her adoration has reached Lou Holtz pro­portions, but the girl is pretty much beloved by most members of the student body. 
Boys love her because she’s beautiful. Girls love her because she’s beautiful and a talented song­writer. Professors love her because she’s one of the few celebrity Molly Madden names they rec­ognize when stu-

A ssistant 
dents talk about 

N ew s Editor
her. 

However, while everyone on cam­pus is generally Team Tay-Tay, there is also a significant faction of people who have a very different love/hate relation­ship with her music. 
You know who you are. You (mostly female) listeners love Ms. Swift’s songs because they are written from the heart, are sweet in nature and tend to be accompanied by amazing music videos, no matter what Kanye West says. 
However, there is also a part, that very bitter and emotional, part that gets incredibly angry when the final stanzas of a Taylor Swift song blare from the iPod. Why? Because of the unrealistic never-going-to-happen-to-me happy 

ending. 

And the thing is, thanks to Perez Hilton and “People” magazine, we all know Taylor’s had her fair share of boy drama (do the words “Joe Jonas” and “text message” ring a bell) but she still sings about the bad times eventually giving way to fabulous love. 
False. 

If anyone’s life has ever followed the plot of a Swifty song please let me know who you are so I can commit you to a psychiatric ward for being delusional. 
Like in her hit song “Love Story.” If your father hated the guy from the beginning, why the hell is he all the sud­den gung-ho about you being engaged to Romeo? That doesn’t happen. A more likely ending would feature poor Romeo in the hospital after taking a blow to the head courtesy of Papa Juliet. 
And the fabulous “You Belong With Me.” I do not know of a single instance where the idiot boy finally wakes up and realizes that the not as cute, kind of dorky best friend is really a better romantic option than the humongous brat he is currently dating. Life tends not to follow the plot of a bad Jennifer Aniston film. 
Oddly enough, anytime someone com­plains about the deceptiveness of a good Taylor Swift song, they always tend to finish the rant with a declaration of how much they still love her and the song they just picked apart. And we do. If it weren’t for Taylor’s music we would be stuck trying to somehow make our lives follow the plot of Vanessa Carlton’s “White Houses,” which probably isn’t a good idea if you know the lyrics. 
So Taylor, keep on writing so that we can keep on hoping that one day our lives will follow the plot of one of your amazing songs. And please excuse while I put my headphones in and sing along to “Mine.” 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu. 

An educational obligation outside the classroom 
Notre Dame students have plenty to say. 
They talk about whether police officers will continue to arrest students for underage drinking. They talk about the 8-cent increase in the price of “quarter dogs.” They talk about whether we should give up on Brian Kelly three games into the season. 
But as the midterm elections wind into full gear and Republican candidate Jackie Walorski challenges Democratic incumbent Joe Donnelly for leadership of the 2nd Congressional District? Not a word. 
The Notre Dame student body prides itself on being intel­
ligent, well-rounded and committed to their education. But education is not limited to what is taught in the confines of DeBartolo Hall. 
Staying informed about local, national and international issues is a key part of our edu­cation. More importantly, being able to talk 
about those events is critical to our success in the future. 
It’s an election year where Republicans are threatening to take control of the House and the race in this district could help determine which party becomes the majority. 
Walorski, who was raised in South Bend and currently represents the 21st district in the Indiana State House, is the conservative candidate for Congress. She was endorsed by former vice presidential candidate Sarah Palin, accord­ing to Walorski’s website. 
Donnelly, a Notre Dame graduate, is a moderate Democrat who was voted the eighth most conservative Democrat in Congress by the National Journal Magazine, his website stated. 
The result of this race will not only affect the fate of this district, but it will also significantly affect the make-up of the House, and thus, affect the nation. 
Many other races throughout the country, in students’ home states and districts, carry similar importance. 
But for the majority of the Notre Dame student body? Not an issue. 
Although student government and campus political organ­izations are doing their best to get students involved in local election issues, most students are busy catching up on the endless pages of reading, volunteering and not remember­ing their precious few moments of free time on the weekend 
— as they should be. 
This is college. Our lives are jam-packed and so are our brains. We don’t feel like putting in the time or energy to stay informed about which candidate supports which bill or 

even who is running for congress in our district, because those are just extra facts that could replace ones we will be tested on. 
As students, we understand this. 
But in a few short years, we will not be judged by our performance on papers and tests, but rather on our ability to speak intelligently about 
issues of local and international importance. 
Are we apathetic? No. 
Are we too busy to care about important issues? Sometimes. 
Are we uninformed? Dangerously so. 
Three major national newspapers are offered in the din­ing hall for a reason — read them. Lectures are offered on campus examining the midterm election and other impor­tant issues — attend just one. Your peers may get belliger­ent on weekend nights, but they are all intelligent people who are capable of engaging in intellectual debate — talk about which candidate you support over those over-priced quarter dogs. 
Learning for learning’s sake may seem like a noble, but impractical cause for many Notre Dame students. 
But will we snag that dream internship if we can’t intelli­gently debate local, national and international issues? Not a chance. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“You cannot live a perfect day Submit a Letter
without doing something for 
“I have never met a man so

someone who will never be able 
ignorant that I couldn’t learn

to repay you.” 
to the Editor at something from him.” 
John Wooden 
www.ndsmcobserver.com Galileo Galilei 
Italian astronomer and physicist

U.S. Hall of Fame basketball 
player and coach 

The Observer 

Friday, September 24, 2010 page 11
Viewpoint 
Denying communion to Gov. McDonnell 
For our nation’s commander-in-chief or the chief executive of each state, no more important duty exists than to officially order a person to serve in harm’s way or to condone the death of a citizen. Commuting a death sentence and par­doning a prison term are counter­balancing features within the frame­work of elective office. This week, Virginia Gov. Robert F. McDonnell (Notre Dame ‘76) chose not to save the life of convicted murderer Teresa Lewis, but rather, refused to commute her death sentence, thus sending her to her execution. His action gives pause to Catholics whose definition of a pro-life agenda includes not only objection to abortion, but an opposition to war and capital punishment. 
More than seven years ago, Lewis, with an IQ of 70, pled guilty to two heinous counts of capital murder for hire of her husband and stepson, a 
U.S. Army reservist set to deploy for active duty. Using the lure of sex and money to persuade two men to kill her husband and stepson in 2002, she plotted to obtain her husband’s assets and her stepson’s life insurance poli­cy. After her co-conspirators shot the two victims multiple times with shot­guns at close range, Lewis waited more than 45 minutes to call emer­gency response personnel, during which time her husband was still alive. 

In McDonnell’s released statement answering her request to commute her sentence of death to a sentence of life without parole, the governor noted, “Lewis’s guilty plea, verdict and sentence have been reviewed by state and federal courts … which have unanimously upheld the sentence in this case. Lewis does not deny that she committed these heinous crimes. Numerous psychiatrists and psycholo­gists have analyzed Lewis, both before and after her sentencing. After numerous evaluations, no medical professional has concluded that Teresa Lewis meets the medical or statutory definition of mentally retarded.” 
The governor, sending the first woman to an execution in nearly a century in Virginia, concluded, “Having carefully reviewed the peti­tion for clemency, the judicial opin­ions in this case, and other relevant materials, I find no compelling reason to set aside the sentence that was imposed by the Circuit Court and affirmed by all reviewing courts. Accordingly, I decline to intervene and have notified the appropriate counsel and family of my decision.” 
Catholic Church hierarchy who vocally beat a constant drum to pro­tect “innocent” life need also remind the governor to protect all life, includ­ing “guilty” lives. Serving a life sen­tence could convert Lewis’ heart like so many others who find redemption while incarcerated. Where is the out­cry from Virginia’s Catholic bishops against McDonnell’s death decision? Just six years ago, vocal bishops announced that they would refuse communion to pro-choice Catholic Democratic presidential nominee Senator John Kerry for his political stand to represent his constituency. The political constituency supporting capital death that McDonnell’s action represents finds its seeds in the Baptist Christian right founded by Jerry Falwell of Lynchburg and Pat Robertson of Virginia Beach. 
In their zeal to embrace other advo­cates opposed to abortion over the years, Catholics have hastily adopted Falwell’s Baptist Moral Majority “pro-family,” “pro-life,” “pro-defense” and “pro-Israel” definitions espoused in support of Ronald Reagan’s candidacy. Catholics have also clutched onto Robertson’s Regent University’s American Center for Law and Justice Republican-leaning Baptist “pro-fami­ly,” “pro-liberty” and “pro-life” defini­tions evolved during his own Republican run for the presidency in 1988. Recently, Falwell joined several Republican-leaning or pro-business advocates to support McDonnell’s plan to sell Virginia’s state-owned liquor monopoly, triple the number of liquor retail outlets and place the state-run alcohol sales in private hands — hard­ly an issue for the Catholic Church to express a stand. 
Our gospels are founded on redemp­tion, salvation, forgiveness and love — not revenge, retribution or reprisals. Slaughtered martyrs passively stood in arenas for their new religion. What today passes for some as a true pro-life stand has politically morphed through the narrow Baptist filters that Falwell and Robertson created decades ago which promote capital punishment and war deaths. Therefore, the Catholic hierarchy need hold an equal standard for all elected officials if they insist that they hold Catholic teaching above the rep­resentations of their political con­stituencies. They cannot give a pass on capital punishment to a so-called “pro-life” Catholic official who opposed abortion while denying com­munion to an anti-capital punishment Catholic official who is pro-choice. 
Catholic bishops need to stop divid­ing loafs by party lines when Catholic officials represent their constituencies over their religious hierarchy. McDonnell should be able to represent his powerful Virginia Baptist lobby and execute a prisoner or Kerry his national political party and support a woman’s right to choose. It should simply be noted that both are not pro-life stands, and both should be held to an equal standard, not a Baptist-evolved one, when bishops decide to deny communion. 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

A call for ethical investment 
For over ayear now, students have been in dialogue with the administra­tion about Notre Dame’s investmentpractices, particularly concerning Notre Dame’s investmentin the hotel companyHEI. HEIHotels &Resorts is the seventhlargest hotel management companyin the U.S. andhas received over $1.2billion from University endowments, using this money to buyhotels in order to turn them over and sell them again at aprofit. According to workers, cost-cutting tactics at some HEIproperties, such as reducing staffinglevels and shortages in basic materials, have consider­ablyincreased workloads. 
This summer has been an exciting and challenging time for workers organizingin HEIhotels. In June, HEI signed asettlement agreement with the NationalLabor Relations Board requiring it to reinstate FerdiLazo, a worker who was fired at the Sheraton CrystalCityin Virginia allegedlyfor union activities, pay$24,800 ofhis back wages for the year he wasfired andpost apublic pledge in the hotelto honor workers’ rights. 
This summer also marked the first HEI-ownedhotel to organize aunion. On Aug. 27, after amajority of workers signed cards in favor of the union, HEI recognized “UNITEHERELocal11” as the new union ofWHotel workers. They now have avoice on the job and the right to bargain acon­tract, unlike the four other HEIhotels where workers are stillpublicly fightingfor their voices to be heard. 
The victoryfor the workers in Hollywood comes at atime when HEIis under mountingpressure. Hotel workers at the EmbassySuites in Irvine, Calif. went on aone-day strike on Aug. 9demanding their rights. They were protestingyears of missed anddeniedbreaks due to understaffing. Along with their protest, workers filed acomplaint with the California Board ofIndustrialRelations seeking approximately$120,000 in backpay owed as compensation for missedbreaks. 
Last semester, we presented the concerns of the workers in HEI-owned hotels to the investment office. Despite our concerns, Mr. Scott Malpass, the ChiefInvestmentOfficer, assured us that HEI was agood company. He claimed that he would share with us the standards by which the invest­ment office decides that acompanyis ethical andhow HEI meets these standards. We have yet to be given anyinformation thatdisproves the abuses that the workers have claimed. In light of this, we call on our investment office to provide us with concrete guidelines for ethicalinvest­ment and to acknowledge theconcerns of workers in HEIhotels. 
Sarah Furman 
senior off campus Sept. 23 
Progressive Day 
InpreparationforProgressiveDayonSept.28,afewoftheNotreDameCollegeDemocrats feelitisimportanttolettherestofthecommunityknowwhytheyareprogressive. ColleenLowryisprogressivebecausethesecurityofhavingadequatehealthinsurancefor everyoneismoreimportantthanpartisanshipbetweenasmallgroupofwhitemen. RachelKochisprogressivebecauseshecaresaboutthepreservationofbiologicaldiversityof thisplanetforfuturegenerationstocome. MattLaFortuneisprogressivebecause“lovethyneighbor”referstomorethanjustthe unborn. BridgetFloresisprogressivebecauseshebelievesintherightofeveryhumanbeingtobe loved,respectedandtreatedwithdignity. 
LaurenRestivoisprogressivebecaseit’sabouttimethatwethepeopledemandthegovern­mentreturntousthatwhichithasunjustlytaken,themostpowerfulresourcethathumanityhas everknown.Aresourcethatcomesfromthehumanspiritandthatthegovernmenthastaught ustosupressonbothasocietalandindividualscale.Theabilitytounderstand,generateand embodycompassion. 
T.J.Recordisprogressivebecauselovedoesnotdiscriminatebasedongender. 
TimRyanisprogressivebecausehebelievesthatwehaveanobligationtoalllifeonearthand thatourcurrentwayoflifeisunsustainable.HealsobelievesthatAmericacanbeatthefore­frontofthecleanenergyrevolutionthatwillsavethisplanet. 
SaraBegaisprogressivebecausebeingPro-Lifeisaboutmorethanjustoneissue.It’swanting toensurequalityoflifeforeveryonefromconceptiontodeath. EileenFlanaganisprogressivebecaseshebelievesintolerance,thepreservationofhuman dignityandaccesstotheAmericandreamforall. ChrisRhodenbaughisprogressivebecausehebelievesinalifeofserviceandadherenceto CatholicSocialTeachings. RemembertowearblueonSept.28,2010.Therearealotmoreprogressivesoncampusthan youthink! 
Colleen Lowry 
off campus 
Rachel Koch 
off campus 
Matt LaFortune 
alumnus 
Bridget Flores 
off campus 
Lauren Restivo 
off campus 
T.J. Record 
sophomore 
Tim Ryan 
senior 
Sara Bega 
sophomore 
Eileen Flanagan 
sophomore 
Chris Rhodenbaugh 
senior Sept. 22 
The Observer 

Scene
page 12 Friday, September 24, 2010 

By COURTNEY ECKERLE 
Scene Writer 
While Picasso had his blue and 
rose periods, singer/songwriter and 
musician Matt Costa is making his 
way through the decades with the 
tone of his third and latest album, 
“Mobile Chateau.” 
His 40s and 50s influenced style, 
a mixture of pop, rock and blues is 
cast aside in favor of 70s psychedel­
ic folk in his latest venture. 
And if you are a fan of the late­
60s to 70s, the Mama’s and Papa’s 
type of music, be prepared to fall 
head over go-go boots for “Mobile 
Chateau.” 
Just get any iPod dancing com­
mercial fantasies out of your head. 
“Mr. Pitiful” from his second album 
was featured on one and was also 
in “I Love You, Man.” Costa, who 
has previously wooed listeners and 
critics alike with upbeat songs from 
his previous two albums, “Songs We 
Sing” and “Unfamiliar Faces”, has 
made a signifi­
cant detour from 
his buoyant 
California campy folk-pop that made him a per­fect fit at the king of mellow Jack Johnson’s record label, Brushfire Records. With this latest album he has managed to bridge that sound with a psy­
chedelic flash­back and make it work. The only unknown is if he will alienate his fan base, built up on a promise of light folksy croon­ing about sunshine and roses. The sound clearly and definitely detours in this latest album, almost as if the Beach Boys had suddenly morphed into Fairport Convention four years into their career. Not necessarily a bad thing — just be prepared. This is not the Matt Costa of old. 
A Huntington Beach, Calif., native, Costa has always been com­pared to 60s folk legend Donovan with his finger picking guitar style, but never has it been so evident as on his latest venture. “Johnny’s Love of Majik” has the baiting tone of Donovan’s “Sunshine Superman” and its upbeat sound makes it prob­ably the easiest transition from the era of his first two albums into the 70s influence he touts in “Mobile Chateau.” 
Music videos for first singles tend to hint at the theme of the entire album, and “Witchcraft” is a psy­chedelic Doors-esque performance that could be on the Johnny Carson show. Instead of Costa’s usual vaudeville show such as his one-man band from “Mr. Pitiful” he’s crooning on a stage with a picture that makes it seem like he’s inside a blue lava lamp — except it’s double exposed under a disco ball. 
The second single off the album is “The Season,” which has an echo­ing, haunting sound that stays upbeat, totally reminiscent of The Mama’s and the Papa’s style. “Drive” sounds like a track straight off of the “My Girl” soundtrack with a cute, catchy tinny 
“Mobile Chateau” 
Matt Costa 
Label: Brushfire Records Best Tracks: “Johnny’s Love of Majik,” “The Season,” “Drive” 
piano open­er. “Secret” definitely has a “Jersey Boys” love song feel, and Costa stated in an interview with Blackbook that it was the first 
song he 
wrote for the album, and it seems to show his transition from one decade of influ­ences to the other. 
“Mobile Chateau” is a great rainy day reflection album, but it remains to be seen if fans of his sunny albums will follow. On the flip side, it will probably succeed in drawing in new fans, as well as impressing critics with Costa’s versatility and growth. 
Contact Courtney Eckerle at 
cecker01@saintmarys.edu 
GASPAR GARCIA DE PAREDES | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Friday, September 24, 2010 page 13 

The Walkmen take it easy in their new album ‘Lisbon’ 
By MACKENZIE HENDRICKSON 
Scene Writer 

The Walkmen’s career has been a 10-year musical presentation of “tak­ing a chill pill.” Starting off with post-punk revival fury in the early 2000’s, they have progressively calmed down their sound without loosing their smooth pessimism. One of their earlier songs, “Rat,” was an angry look at 21st century discon­nectedness. “Lisbon,” their newest effort, sounds like a bunch of buddies sitting in a sunroom, playing anthems about how life is kind of awful, but… whatever. 
Bands and producers will go to extraordinary lengths to produce a record with a unified sound, some­thing you could describe in pedestri­an terms. This approach is best when intended to match what is going on in the music thematically, melodically etc. (Springsteen wanted “Born To Run” to sound like transistor radio glory from the 1950’s to match the songs cinematic romanticism). Creating this sound is one sort of success. Having this sound make sense within the context of the album is another. More often than not, bands achieve the first but leave the listeners unsure about the second. “Lisbon” achieves both. 
For production quality, there is no error or inconsistency. The songs sound as if they were all recorded at the same time. Aside from a few musicians coming and going, and perhaps a few cigarette breaks — everything else remains the exact same. Ideally, bands would love to record an album in one inspired sit­ting. This being a nearly impossible approach (even the fastest albums taking at least two weeks), the best a band can do is fake it. Lisbon does this well. The guitar remains almost untouched, sounding like sun-dried electric blues malaise on every track. The drums can be strong at times, but it all fits within Lisbon’s flattened brightness. The songs get more and more ballad-like as the album concludes; this is a peculiar progression considering the opening track is almost a ballad. 
Unlike many other artistically con­fused bands, this sound makes com­plete sense in light of what front man Hamilton Leithauser is singing about. The band is the same old down-and­out collective they were back in 2003, but this time there is an ele­ment of acceptance. Before, they were young. They were pissed. They wanted to be heard. Now they’ve retired to the sonic countryside, where life’s a little calmer and little sunnier. Leithauser can sound like Dylan on a few tracks and Brandon Flowers on others, which is cool. His pessimism is an appropriate mix of 
“Blowin’ In the Wind” helpless­ness and “Mr. Brightside” mis­fortune. 
“Angela Surf City” is the home run on the album. The drums skip along at a rapid beach hop. The bright guitar, as with other songs on the album, 
sounds as if it could care less what the drums are doing. “Stranded” sounds more like an album closer than a mid-record cut, but shines nonetheless. This actually makes sense within an album with more than its fair share of tracks that could be exit music for a tragic film. 
There’s one problem in all this: the songs just aren’t that pleasing in a modern sense. They move along at a Sinatra swagger too relaxed for the attention span of the 21st century music audience. The songs can come off as bland and uninteresting to even the mellowest among us. “Lisbon” won’t please listeners as much as fellow New York balladeers The National. There are no cliché catchy elements. No appeals to popu­lar culture. Nothing blogging nerds could claim as the sound of the future. It’s immediately and forever indie. For some that’s a huge nega­tive. For others, that’s what makes a solid record. 
“Lisbon” 
Walkmen Released: September 14, 2010 Label: Fat Possum / Bella Union Best Tracks: “Angela Surf City”, “Stranded” 

Contact Mackenzie Hendrickson at mhendri1@nd.edu 


GASPAR GARCIA DE PAREDES | Observer Graphic 

NCAA FOOTBALL 
NFL 
Backup quarterbacks 

Defense bails out Florida 
Associated Press 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. — Florida’s defensive philosophy is simple: When the ball is in the air or on the ground, the Gators better get it. 
Thecoachespreachit,theplay­ers practice it and the results show. 
No. 9 Florida leads the nation with 12 takeaways, including a staggering 10 interceptions through three games. The Gators (3-0, 1-0 Southeastern Conference) have scored 55 points off those turnovers, taking advantage of short fields, seizing momentum and turning close gamesintolopsidedaffairs. 
Although the defensive per­formances have been overshad­owed by Florida’s offensive strug­gles, they haven’t been over­looked by players, coaches or opponents. 
“Defense, we’re justtaking care of business,” cornerback Jeremy Brown. “We know if we handle ourhalf,we’llbegood.” 
Kentucky, which visits Gainesville on Saturday, feels the sameway. The Wildcats (3-0)The haven’t turned the ball over this season, a big reason they are undefeated. Coach Joker Phillips would love to keep the streak intact against Florida, whose defense has done more than its share. 
The Gators have allowed less than 300 yards twice, including in last week’s 31-17 victory at Tennessee. Brown, who had been picked on early in the game and beaten for atouchdown, provided oneofthekeyplayswithaninter­ceptioninthethirdquarter. 
“Gave up a big play,” Brown said. “Gotta have amnesia and forget about it. It was a big relief tocomeback.” 
TheGatorshaveusedturnovers tocomebackineverygame. 
Cornerback Janoris Jenkins 
returned an interception 67 yards for Florida’s first touchdown of the season against Miami (Ohio). Two series later, safety Ahmad Black returned another one 40 yards to set up a short TD run. Linebacker Jon Bostic sealed 
highly used this year 

Safety Will Hill with the offense’s ball security, 
“W e’ve outscored 
was suspended sayinghe’sdoneasolidjobofget-
The Steelers knew since April 

people,butthat’s for two games for ting rid ofthe ball and notforcing 
that Ben Roethlisberger would 

noteffcient, an undisclosed passes. 
be suspended for at least four 

violation of team “You’d better be lucky, too,” 
weeks. They hoped to get by 

cham pionship-style 
rules. He Phillips said, pointing out a few 
withByron. 

football.O ur defense 
returned against times the ball has bounced his 
But Byron Leftwich, an eight-

has to do that.” the Volunteers, team’s way. “I’ve never been on a 
year veteran, hurt his left knee 

but was some-team that had not put the ball on 
in the preseason, which meant 

what rusty. He bit the ground or turned it over in 
third-stringer Dennis Dixon 

Urban Meyer 
on two under-three games. I’d like to be on one 
moved behind center. Dixon 

Florida coach 
neath routes and that has done it in four games, 
was a winner in Week 1, even 

gave up two long too.” 
though the Steelers didn’t score 

TDpasses. Kentucky,whichhaslost23ina 
a touchdown until overtime, 


Associated Press 
Call it the QB Shuffle. Or the QBQuandary. 
Whatever it’s called, the NFL position that normally needs more stability than any is in a stateoffluxfromcoasttocoast. 
Nine teams — Buffalo, Jacksonville, Pittsburgh, Cleveland, Tennessee, Oakland, Philadelphia, Carolina and Detroit — already have used their backup quarterback. Some of the moves were because of injuries, but five clubs already have turned to No. 2 by choice, even if just temporarily. 
So what in the name of Peyton and Eli Manning, Tom Brady and Drew Brees is going on? 
“It is getting tougher and tougher to playthe position, not only from a physical standpoint of throwing the ball, but from a mental standpoint and what you are seeing from defenses,” says Ron Jaworski, the former Eagles starter and now ESPN’s analyst for Monday night foot­ball games. No one watches more film of quarterbacks than Jaworski, which gives him par­
ticular insight into the upheaval 
AP 
at the position through just two 

Urban Meyer’s Florida team has been relying on its defense to get 
weeksoftheschedule. “You always will have the Defensive endJustinTrattou’s35-efficient and error-free to start 
off to a 3-0 start. 

elite guys, but once you start yardinterception for ascore gave the season. They can only hope 
gettingbeyondNo. 12 or 13, it’s the Gators a three-touchdown for the same results in 
hardtofindtheother19consis­lead. Gainesville. 
tent quarterbacks in this “It’s not the way we’ve won a “I think it’s a little bit of every-
league.” lot ofgames aroundhere,” coach thing,” Locke said. “Alot ofithas 
Hard?Maybeimpossible. Urban Meyer said. “We’ve got to do with Hartline. We’ve 
The quarterback changes outscored people, but that’s not been throwing a lot and if he’s 
thus far run the gamut from efficient, championship-style foot-makingbaddecisions,theycanbe 
bad health to bad play to bad ball.Ourdefensehastodothat.” picks. But right now he’s doing a 
vibes. And get this: Florida’s success good job, and when I’m running 
In Pittsburgh, Philadelphia, the first two weeks came without the ball or Cobb is running the 
Detroit and Cleveland, injuries one of the team’s ball,we’vegottoholdontoit.” 
had plenty to do with the best defenders. Phillips also credited Hartline 
switches. Even those, however, meritfurtherexamination. 

the victory with the fourthpick of The Gators expect Hill to play row inthe series, hasbeen on the 
andthatcameonalongrun.He 

thegame. better Saturday againstKentucky. wrong end of several turnovers 
wentdowninWeek2withaleft 

Black got two more the follow-Theymightneedhimto. the last two years. Florida 
knee problem, bringing in 

ing week against South Florida. Ledby seniorquarterbackMike blockedapuntforatouchdownin 
Charlie Batch and making wide 

His first set up Florida’s first Hartline, senior running back 2009, blocked two punts in 2008 
receiver Antwaan Randle El, a 

touchdown, which tied the game DerrickLocke andjunior receiver and returned an interception for 
quarterback in college way 

at 7late in the second quarter. RandallCobb, Kentuckyhas been ascore. 
back at the beginning of the 
century,thesecond-stringer. 
Now Leftwich, who was waived last weekend and re­signed Monday, is back. And backingupBatch. 
“He’s been with the starters, he’s been withthe secondteam, he’s been with the third team,” wide receiver Hines Ward sums up Batch’s career. “He under­standsallthewidereceivers.He probably understands this offensebetter thananybody.We feel good, we’ve just got to pro­tectCharlie.” 
The Eagles couldn’t protect Kevin Kolb well enough and he sustained a concussion in an openingloss.MichaelVickcame in and starred, then did even better in a victory over Detroit withKolbsidelined. 
So Vick stays as the starter after coach Andy Reid reversed his earlier decision not to strip Kolb of the job because of injury. 
“I think Kolb probably is a basket case right now,” says Jaworski, who knows the Eagles as well as anyone. “Kolb was their guy, they traded Donovan McNabb to give him a chance. To yank the guy and take his job away has got to be brutalforhim.” 
A brutal hit by Julius Peppers on Matt Stafford sidelined the 2009 top overall pick with a right shoulder injuryin Week 1, andShaun Hilltookoverfor the Lions. When Stafford is ready, hewillstepbackin. 
So, it seems, will Jake Delhomme in Cleveland once his ankle as healed enough for himtoreplaceSenecaWallace. 
Two starters, Jacksonville’s David Garrard and Tennessee’s Vince Young, are in no danger oflosingtheirjobsdespitebeing taken out last Sunday during losses. 
Where things get confusing is in Oakland. And Charlotte. And Buffalo. 
When the Raiders dealt with WashingtonforJasonCampbell, team owner Al Davis compared Campbell with Jim Plunkett, who merely won Super Bowls for Oakland. Maybe he meant JaMarcus Russell, because Campbell has been demoted andBruceGradkowskiwillstart againstArizona. 
Matt Moore got the quick hook in Carolina, where coach John Fox is in the final year of his contract and essentially is a lameduck.Sowhynottryrook­ie Jimmy Clausen — even if Moore pretty much saved Fox’s jobbygoing4-1latein2009? 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 3 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Raj: I'm going to be deported, sent Tobias: You know, Lindsay, as a home in disgrace, exposed to the therapist, I have advised... a num-FOR RENT WANTED PERSONAL sardonic barbs of my cousin Sanjay, ber of couples to explore an open 
Don't go it alone. or as you may know him, Dave from relationship where the couple Spacious Upper-Level Apartment Better World Books, Mishawaka, IN, AT&T customer service. remains emotionally committed but Near Airport, on Busline is looking for an enthusiastic college ———————————————-free to explore extramarital encoun­1 Bdr. $550, All Util Included student with excellent interpersonal, Notre Dame has many resources in ters. Call Mike 574-250-0191 communication skills, organizational If you or someone you care about place to assist you. Raj: I don't want to go back to India! ——————————————— and multi-tasking skills and a strong has been sexually assaulted, we It's hot, and it's loud, and there are Lindsay: Well, did it work for those Lakeside work ethic to join our team as a PT can help. so many people! people? Cozy furnished 3 bedroom cottage (20 hrs/wk) Outbound Telesales If you or someone you love needs 30 minutes from South Bend. Rep. This position requires heavy confidential support or assistance, You have no idea -- they're every-Tobias: No, it never does. I mean, Tranquil beach community. phone usage and consistently uti-please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 where. these people somehow delude One bath, fireplace, washer / dryer, lizes Salesforce.com (CRM tool) to For more information, visit Notre or Ann Firth at 1-2685. ———————————————-themselves into thinking it might, full kitchen. manage the majority of the job func-Dame's website: but... but it might work for us. Security deposit/ references tions. Pay is $10/ hr. Please send Rajesh: Ah beer, the magic elixir ———————————————­requested. your resume to hr@betterworld-For more information, visit ND's that can turn this poor shy Indian Hi beef. 
books.com for consideration!trim — website at: http://pregnancysup-boy in the life of the party ... Oh 708-205-4547 Broyhill— $150 674-6150 http://csap.nd.edu. port@nd.edu. yeah! You rock. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ———————————————-———————————————-———————————————­
MLB 

Suzuki breaks own record in losing effort 
Giants use offensive explosion to defeat Cubs; Brewers get past Marlins 
sink in yet, I haven’t thought players to hit 50 homers, both 
Associated Press 

about it too much. Once I do in 2007. 
TORONTO —On aday of that, then I’ll probably have “It’s obviously a pretty historic milestone hits, Jose more feelings to describe. Right game,” Blue Jays Bautista’s big shot won the now I’m really honored and outfielder Vernon Wellssaid. game. happy.” “Ichiro is the pretty much the 
Bautista hit his major league-After fouling back a 2-0 pitch, staple of consistency for what leading 50th home run, con-Bautista hammered the next he’s able to do year in and year necting off Felix Hernandez and one into the left-field bullpen. out. For Jose, it’s pretty neat to sending the Toronto Blue “That’s what happens when watch one of your teammates Jays over the Seattle you get behind in the count,” hit 50 home runs in a season.” Mariners 1-0 on Thursday. Hernandez said. Suzuki struck out in the first, 
Seattle’s Ichiro Suzuki also All 50 of Bautista’s homers doubled to left in the third and became the first player with 10 have been to left or left center. collected his 200th hit when he straight 200-hit seasons, break-He exchanged hugs and fist lined to center on the first pitch ing his own record with a fifth-bumps with his teammates he saw from Shawn Hill) (1-2) inning single. before coming out of the dugout in the fifth. 
“We got to see some things for a curtain call and trying to happen today that I’ve never get the attention of his parents, Giants 13, Cubs 0 seen before,” Blue Jays manag-who were in the crowd. Apregame hitters’ meeting er Cito Gaston said. “It’s a day “I tried to wave at them,” seemed to help shake the San I’ll always remember.” Bautista said. “Everybody was Francisco Giants out of their 
Bautista became the 26th standing up so I don’t think they recent slumber. player in baseball history to could see me.” A stiff wind blowing out of reach the 50-home run mark The homer was Bautista’s Wrigley Field didn’t hurt, either. with a first-inning drive off major league-high 31st at home Juan Uribe hit a grand slam Hernandez (12-12). this season, breaking Carlos and a two-run homer, both 
“It’s really a big honor to be Delgado’s team record set in shots coming during a nine-run put in that elite group of hit-2000. second inning that sent the ters,” Bautista said. “To tell you Prince Fielder (50) and Alex Giants past the Chicago Cubs the truth, Ireally haven’t let it Rodriguez (54) were the last 13-0 Thursday night. 
“He is a guy who can do a lot “We’re better than this and homers in the seventh on the of damage,” Giants manager it’s going to take everybody to first three pitches of reliever Bruce Bochy said. “He’s focus out there,” Bochy said he Sandy Rosario’s major league knocked in a lot of runs for us told his players. “Trust the guy debut. this year. It’s nice having a behind you. We’ve had a few Gallardo (14-7) gave up three shortstop who can do that. We guys trying to do too much out runs in 6 2-3 innings, improving needed a big game from some-there. Just try to get a quality to 3-0 with a 1.95 ERA and 25 body and we got it from him at-bat and keep things moving.” strikeouts in four September tonight.” The Giants responded with 19 starts, and impressed Marlins 
San Francisco began the day hits and four home runs. manager Edwin Rodriguez. one-half game behind San San Francisco pitchers, mean-“He’s amazing,” Rodriguez Diego in the NL West. The while, kept doing a solid job. said. “It’s the first time I’ve seen Padres played later at Los They have gone 17 straight him pitch live. He threw one Angeles. The Giants have the games giving up three or fewer pitch to Logan Morrison that same record as idle Atlanta, runs, the longest streak since we’re still trying to figure out which leads the wild-card race. the Chicago White Sox set the what pitch it was.” 
record with 20 in a row in Probably a slider, something 1917, the Elias Sports Bureau Gallardo has been working on said. extensively this season. 
Madison Bumgarner (6-6) Brewers manager Ken Macha scattered seven hits over seven says it’s now the ace’s best innings and struck out a career-breaking pitch. high nine. Morrison, a rookie, just 
“I feel like I was keeping the stopped swinging at Gallardo’s ball down a lot better today pitches. That helped him draw than I was the last few games,” a walk that extended his streak he said. “I’m trying to keep the of reaching base safely to 42 same approach each time I go games, tying the best mark in out there. I feel good about the majors this season as his going out there and giving us a cancer-stricken father watched chance to win.” from the stands. 
Uribe had only two hits in his “It would’ve felt better if we previous 21 at-bats before his won the game,” Morrison said. quick six RBIs as the Giants “I got away from my plan a lit-teed off on Ryan Dempster (14-tle bit and that’s what happens 
11) and reliever Thomas when you don’t stick to your Diamond. approach. It’s a learning 
“He (Dempster) didn’t look process.” comfortable to me from the get-will be mathematically elimi­go,” Cubs manager Mike Quade nated from he playoff chase said. “He’ll be fine next outing. unless the Marlins win their 
“You certainly have to put this final 10 games, the Braves lose one behind you. This is a turn-their final nine and multiple the-page game for me,” he said. other scenarios play out. 
Milwaukee was eliminated Brewers 8, Marlins 3 earlier this week and hasn’t 
Corey Hart is disappointed the played a factor in the race all Milwaukee Brewers struggled season, just two years after early and never regained winning the NL wild card. enough ground to join the post-Gallardo and the rest of the season chase. But his personal Brewers have accepted that achievements during a wild they squandered another season have helped wipe away opportunity after a nine-game some of that frustration. losing streak in May put them in 
“I definitely have a smile on a deep hole. my face every time I come “That’s how baseball is. We here,” said Hart, who reached can’t control certain things,” 30 home runs for the first time Gallardo said. “It was just in his career Thursday night. unfortunate things didn’t work 
Hart hit one of three out for us this year.” Milwaukee homers and Yovani Morrison had gone 0 for 3 Gallardo added another win to before his walk that tied his strong September, leading Yankees slugger Mark Teixeira the Brewers to an 8-3 victory for the longest streak in the over the Florida Marlins. majors this season. Morrison is 
Rickie Weeks and Prince four games from the Marlins Fielder added consecutive record held by Luis Castillo. 




NCAA FOOTBALL 

No. 19 Miami cruises past Pitt behind Harris 

Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — The decades may change, the conferences may change but everything stays the same when Miami plays Pitt. The games are as one-sided as the rivalry. 
Jacory Harris led quick touch­down drives to start each half and No. 19 Miami dominated Pittsburgh much like it did when the schools were Big East Conference rivals, winning 31-3 on Thursday night. 
Harris had two more floater-type interceptions like the four he threw in a 36-24 loss to No. 2 Ohio State two weeks ago, but shook them off to throw for two scores and 248 yards while going 21 of 32. Damien Berry did the rest by running for 87 yards and a touchdown on 21 carries in an offense that out-gained Pitt’s 348-232. 
The Hurricanes (2-1), faster, deeper and more athletic than the Panthers (1-2), never gave Pitt quarterback Tino Sunseri any time to throw in his third college start, and he was pulled in the fourth quarter after com­pleting 8 of 15 passes for 61 yards. 
Dion Lewis, the nation’s lead­ing returning rusher, was given little running room by an over­whelmed offensive line and ended with 41 yards on 12 car­ries. Lewis, coming off a 1,799­yard season as a freshman, has been held to 143 yards in three games. 
Miami’s plan was simple and effective: Strike early, strike effectively, then let its defense and special teams do the rest. 
With the Hurricanes up 17-3 early in the fourth, they forced a fumble by punt returner Cam Saddler. Harris took advantage to throw a 10-yard TD pass to Travis Benjamin that wrapped up Miami’s seventh consecutive victory against Pitt and its 15th in 16 games dating to 1984. 
“The defense played great,” defensive end Andrew Smith said. “We put an emphasis on tackling (in practice), and we were getting all 11 to the ball. We wanted to wrap them up and drive them back, and that showed up on the field.” 
And in the statistics. The Hurricanes had five sacks, nine tackles for losses—a stat in which they lead the nation— and forced three turnovers. Sean Spence had 1 1/2 sacks and 2 1/2 tackles for a loss and a team-high nine tackles. 
“When you can stop the run and make them one-dimension­al, you have a good chance of winning,” Spence said. “We always want to be the one to throw the first punch. We did a great job of starting fast.” 
Again, it was a bad day for the Big East, which is 1-7 so far this season against nonconfer­ence opponents from BCS con­ferences. Pitt is 1-11 against ranked nonconference teams since 1996, while Miami has won 33 in a row against unranked nonconference teams. 
Harris also found Leonard Hankerson on a 19-yard scor­ing pass play on Miami’s fourth play from scrimmage in the sec­ond half, completing a 51-yard drive set up by a 26-yard punt by Pitt’s Dan Hutchins. Harris hit Benjamin for 20 yards on first down. 
“He managed the game well, he made some great throws and he did his job,” Miami coach Randy Shannon said of Harris. 
Shannon once played for and coached under Pitt coach Dave Wannstedt, but he didn’t do his old boss any favors. Wannstedt was so upset with his team’s performance, he held a hastily called post-game meeting with his seniors and some other players. 
“We’re just not in sync,” Wannstedt said. “We’ll make one good play on offense and two bad ones. … If we need to make changes, we’ll make changes. We’ve got to look at the offensive line.” 
The teams hadn’t met since Miami left the Big East for the Atlantic Coast Conference in 2004, but, as usual, the Hurricanes made it look easy. 
Pitt didn’t advance inside the Miami 30 until the next-to-last play of the third quarter, and that was on a 15-yard rough­ing-the-passer penalty. Lewis gained only 5 yards on the next plays carries, and Hutchins kicked a 27-yard field goal to avoid Pitt’s second shutout loss of the Dave Wannstedt era. 
MLB 
Yankees to face Red Sox 
Associated Press 
Barring a monumental col­lapse, the New York Yankees willget a chance to defendtheir championship. 
With their postseason hopes nearlygone, the Boston RedSox could still play a major role in determiningwhethertheirrivals win the division or settle for the wildcard. 
Opening their final home seriesoftheregularseason,and the first of two three-game sets against the Red Sox over the next 10 days, the AL East-lead­ing Yankees look to inch closer to the division title in Friday’s opener. 
After winning two of a four-game set against Tampa Bay, New York (92-61) dropped the final two to the second-place Rays, who moved back within one-half game of the East lead ­and even in the loss column ­withThursday’s10-3victory. 
Just as importantly, the Yankees fell one-half game behind Central champion Minnesota for the league’s best record. 
They also appear to have a tougher road to the division title thantheRays.WhileTampaBay finishes against Seattle, Baltimore and Kansas City ­clubs at or near the bottom of their respective divisions -New York follows this series with three games in Toronto and threeatFenwayPark. 
“We can’t complain about having a tougher schedule because if that’s the case we don’t belong in the playoffs any­way,” first baseman Mark Teixeirasaid. 
Derek Jeter singled Thursday to extend his hitting streak to a season-high 12games. He’s bat­ting.327duringtherun. 
YankeesstalwartAndyPettitte (11-2, 2.81 ERA) makes his sec­ond start after missing two months with a strained left groin. 
The 38-year-old left-hander threwsixinningsofone-runball in Sunday’s 4-3, 11-inning loss at Baltimore. Pettitte retired the last 11 batters he faced, but he was denied the win after Mariano Rivera blew the save in theninth. 
Pettitte’s only start against BostonthisseasoncameApril7, when he gave up one run in six inningsofa10-inning,3-1victo­ry at Fenway Park. He is 18-9 with a 3.75 ERA in 35 career starts versus the Red Sox (84­68). 
He will be opposed by Josh Beckett (5-5, 5.71), who is 0-2 with an 11.17ERAinfour starts versus the Yankeesin2010. The right-hander continues to strug­gle all around. He surrendered four runs and 10 hits in seven innings of Saturday’s 4-3 loss to Toronto. 
Teixeira is 6 for 31 with 11 strikeouts lifetime against Beckett. 
Red Sox designated hitter David Ortiz has looked right at home in the Bronx in 2010, bat­ting .348. He is 19 for 52 with a homer in his career against Pettitte. 
Despite a second consecutive slow Aprilin whichhe mustered one homer and four RBIs, Ortiz now has a team-high 31 home runs and is four RBIs shy of reaching100forthefirsttimein threeseasons. 
Red Sox third baseman Mike Lowell will be making his final appearance at Yankee Stadium this weekend. Originally drafted by the Yankees in 1995, Lowell is retiring at season’s end. Includingthe postseason, he is a .281careerhitterintheBronx. 
New York leads the season series7-5. 




SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Belles prepared for Scots 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
Looking to snap out of a three-game losing streak, the Belles will travel to Alma to face offwiththeScots tonight. 
Saint Mary’s enters the game with a 3-9 record (1-3 in the MIAA) while Alma holds strong at8-4 record(3-1intheMIAA). 
The two teams only played each other once last season, butthe match wentdownto the wire. In the end, the Scots came out with a five-set victory, winning 3-2 (16-25, 25-23, 25­22,27-29, 11-15). 
Sophomore Stephanie Bodien fronted the Belles with 11 kills in the loss. Senior Meghann Rose led both teams with 20 digs, while Bodien added 17 and senior Ellen Huelsmann picked up another 16. Junior Danie Brink led the way with 40 assistsduringthematch. 
The Belles have had difficult times on the court this season, beginning the season with a three-game losing streak before winning three of their next six matches. Since then, Saint Mary’s went on another three-game losing streak to fall to 3-9 on the season and have lost three consecutive confer­ence matches since beginning 1-0. 
SaintMary’s iscoming off of a recent MIAA loss to conference foe Kalamazoo in four sets (25­10, 16-25, 25-12, 31-29). In the decisive fourth set, the Belles fought with the Hornets through 16 ties and six lead changes when there were only three ties andtwo lead changes previously. 

Saint Mary’s led through much of the fourth set after establishing a five-point lead and then a four-point one up to the 14-0 mark. As the Hornets came back, the Belles stayed within close range by helpfrom Bodien, who has been key to the Saint Mary’s success this year. 
Jumping onto the scene last year and making a big impact her rookie season, she has only improved onthe courtthis year. At the Manchester Tournament last weekend, Bodien was named to the All-Tournament team from her 11 kills and 16 digs in the first match before adding five more kills and two blocks in the second match Sunday. 

The next week will be critical forthe Belles astheylooktoget back on track in MIAA play. Following tonight’s match against the Scots, Saint Mary’s will host Adrian Saturday before traveling to Trine CollegeonSept.29. 
The Belles will face the Scots tonight at 7 p.m. on the Alma courts. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens@nd.edu 
MLB 
Braden allows one hit in eight innings for win 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND, Calif. — Dallas Braden allowed one hit in eight innings and the Oakland Athletics beat Texas 5-0 on Thursday night, stalling the Rangers' pursuit of their first AL West title since 1999. 
Braden (10-13) outpitched Cliff Lee to end his four-game losing streak and keep Texas' magic number at four for clinching the division. 
The left-hander, who tossed a perfect game against Tampa Bay in May, retired 19 batters in a row after Nelson Cruz's two-out single in the first inning. Ian Kinsler ended the streak by drawing a leadoff walk in the eighth. 
Braden walked two and struck out seven. Brad Ziegler issued a walk and hit a batter with a pitch in the ninth before finishing the one-hitter. 
Lee (12-9) set down his first eight batters before an unchar­acteristic bout of wildness. He walked his first two hitters in the fourth, marking the first time he's walked consecutive batters in two years, a span of 80 starts. Both runners scored. 
Steve Tolleson doubled twice and drove in a run as the A's won their fourth in five games. They moved within seven games of first-place Texas. 
Jack Cust, Chris Carter and Matt Carson also drove in runs for Oakland. 
Lee lasted five innings, allowing four runs and six hits. He walked two and struck out three. 
Missing injured slugger Josh Hamilton, the Rangers have struggled on offense while los­ing four of five. Oakland has made up three games on Texas in five days. 
Lee had allowed two runs in his previous 16 innings after an awful August in which he was 1-4 with a 6.35 ERA in seven starts. 
Braden had struggled in the four starts since he shut out Texas on Aug. 28, losing all four with an ERA of 6.23. 
Daric Barton and Kurt Suzuki walked to open the fourth. After Lee struck out Kevin Kouzmanoff, Cust hit a broken-bat single through the infield to score one run, and Carter hit a sacrifice fly for another run. 
Greg Gross singled and scored when Tolleson doubled in the fifth. Tolleson scored on a double play to make it 4-0. 
Carson's double against Scott Feldman in the sixth made it 5­0. 
Dodgers 3, Padres 1 
Hiroki Kuroda pitched eight superb innings, Andre Ethier had two run-scoring hits and the Los Angeles Dodgers sent the San Diego Padres back into second place in the NL West with a victory Thursday night. 
The Padres fell a half-game behind the San Francisco Giants, who beat the Chicago Cubs 13-0 at Wrigley Field. 
Kuroda (11-13) allowed one run and five hits, struck out four and walked one. He retired 14 of his last 15 bat­ters. The right-hander, who has made 65 starts without a complete game since his one-hitter against Atlanta on July 7, 2008, threw 98 pitches before Hong-Chih Kuo came on to strike out the side in the ninth and get his 10th save in 11 chances. 
Rays 10, Yankees 3 
B.J. Upton and Carl Crawford each drove in two runs in a seven-run sixth inning, and the Tampa Bay Rays knocked around CC Sabathia in his much-anticipated rematch with David Price and beat the New York Yankees Thursday night. 
Price (18-6) labored through six innings but Sabathia (20-7) struggled even more. The Rays beat New York for the second straight day, splitting the four-game set and pulling within a half-game of the Yankees in the AL East. 



Chaos 
continued from page 19 
will abandon their offense quite yet. 
“We’re hoping to put up some more points against Lyons on Sunday,” Truitt said. 
The upstart Lyons’ team will try their best to keep Cavanaugh in check at 5 p.m. Sunday at LaBar Fields. 
Farley vs. Breen Phillips 
Farley and Breen Phillips, both coming off tough losses last Sunday, will battle for a much-needed victory this week. The Finest lost 6-0 to Cavanaugh while the winless Babes (0-2) lost 25-0 to Lyons. 
“We don’t have a victory yet this season but right now that is just serving as extra motivation for us,” Babes senior captain Kate McNelis said. “This past Sunday’s game was tough but we came out of it ready to make changes and start another week off strong.” 
Farley (1-1) senior captain Molly Casanova also said that the loss will help motivate the team. 
“Coming off that loss has made us buckle down, get to work, and focus on what we need to improve on for this next game,” Casanova said. 
McNelis said that the key to a win over Farley will be improv­ing on the offensive side of their game, which was lacking in their past two losses, while also focusing on defensive pressure. 
“We have to make sure our defense stays sharp and that players on both sides are ready to face plays and strategies they’ve never seen before,” McNelis said. 
The Finest have experience on their side with many return­ing players, and they will rely on that experience in the matchup against a youthful but inexperienced Babes squad that has had a hard time adjusting to the interhall game in the sea­son’s first two contest. 
“We look forward to this weekend’s match up against BP,” Casanova said. “Every game we go in with the attitude to always play our best and be supporting of every member of the team.” 
The matchup of North Quad 
neighbors  will  take  place  
Sunday  at  6  p.m.  at  LaBar  
Fields.  

Pasquerilla East vs. Badin 
Pasquerilla East takes on Badin in a battle of winless squads seeking redemption for their losses thus far this season. 
Pasquerilla East (0-1) is com­ing off a narrow 7-0 loss to Lewis in a game that was a bat­tle of defenses. The Pyros were not able to get their pistol offense up and running against a stalwart Lewis defense, con­sidered among some to be one of the best defenses in the league. Junior wide receiver and captain Kristin Mannion said she is confident the offense will improve after a great week of practice. 
“We are starting to get a good feel for the offense and we practiced really fast-paced this week,” Mannion said. 
She also said she saw progress from her freshmen this week. 
“The freshmen are beginning to realize what a high level of play this league is and are improving quickly,” she said. 
Mannion said she is especially confident in sophomore wide receiver Erica Chenard and believes that she could be the game changer this Sunday for the Pyros. 
“Erica had two huge plays for us last week and has great hands and good speed,” Mannion said. 
Badin (0-2) will try to meet the challenge of holding off the Pyro attack. The Bullfrogs have been outscored by opponents by margins of at least 20 points in their first two games. 
Badin will face a Pyro defense that looked very impressive last weekend. It will be a challenge for the Bullfrogs, led by junior quarterback Sylvia Banda, to move the ball on the Pyros. 
The Pyros are confident in their defense and eager to see what their pistol offense can do against a new opponent. The Frogs are a scrappy team plan­ning on improving from their past two weeks’ games. Except in the rare case of a tie, one of these losing squads will get their first win this weekend. 
Contact Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu, Sarah Crippin at scrippin@nd.edu, Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu, Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu, Lucie Gordon at lgordo01@saintmarys.edu, and David Kenney at dkenney@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 
Irish prepared to tee off season 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish tee off their season Saturday at Michigan State ’s Mary Fossum Invitational. 
Seniors So -Hyun Park and Katie Conway said they 
are particular­ly looking for ­ward to jump ­start their last season on the Notre Dame team. 
“I think we need to remem­ber to start strong and get a good start for the season, ” Park said. “The 
Since returning to cam­pus, the Irish have worked hard to get to competitive level at which they wish to play. 
“The team has changed up practice to be more structured and to be more competitive with each other,” Conway said. “If we 
“We are all ready to go out and play, so we just need to get it done.” 
So-Hyun Park Irish golfer 
competition in this week­end’s tournament field is going to be very tough, so we need to especially stay focused and not make any sloppy mistakes.” 
the changes practice by wanting to 
b e a t  e a c h  
o t h e r,  w e  
will be  more  
r e a d y  t o  

come togeth­er to beat 
our oppo ­nents at each event. I’m excited to see the results of 
we’ve imple­
mented this year.” 
The Irish will face tough opposition including Kent State and Michigan State. The team’s goal is to win the invitational, but as it is their first meet, the play­ing process is more impor­tant than the end result. They’re just excited to get the season started. 
“It all circles back to tak­ing it one shot at a time. We hope to set a good tone for the rest of the season and gain some momentum as we move along with our fall schedule, ” Conway said. 
“I think a good start of this weekend will help us get into a good momentum and build our confidence for the season. We are all ready to go out and play, so we just need to get it done,” Park said. 
The Irish will tee off Saturday in East Lansing to commence their season and the Mary Fossum Invitational. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 


Fisher 
continued from page 20 
know, however, that Sorin will be a tough matchup. 
“Sorin looks a lot better than Zahm,” McMahon said. “Besides being stronger, big­ger, and more organized, Sorin runs a plethora of plays on offense and focused on their assignments on defense.” 
Sorin and Fisher meet Sunday at 2 p.m. at Riehle Fields. 
Keenan vs. Keough 
Keenan and Keough each hope to break into the win col­umn at the other team’s expense Sunday. 
Keenan (0-1) opened with a disappointing 13-0 loss at the hands of rival Stanford last week. Despite the lack of suc­cess, the Knights will only make minimal changes against Keough. 
“Defensively we’re going to pretty much stick to what we did,” Keenan senior co-captain and linebacker Bart Dear said. “Offensively we may look to put the ball on the ground a little more, but not change too much.” 
Keough (0-1) lost in its open­ing contest, falling 6-0 to O’Neill. 

“We’re gonna attempt to stick to what we have and what we’ve been practicing,” Keough senior captain Kevin Laughlin said. 
The Kangaroos are prepared to adjust on the fly, however, if they don’t get off to their desired start. 
“We’re in the process of put­ting in other packages to give us more flexibility,” Laughlin said. “We understand if it ain’t working, don’t stick with it too long.” 
Despite the added intrigue of a sibling rivalry between Keough senior cornerback Brian Koepsel and Keenan senior defensive back and co-captain Jamie Koepsel, each team realizes more than brag­ging rights are at stake, with the deep hole of 0-2 knocking on the door. 
“We both came off a loss, so for both teams it’s going to be make or break,” Laughlin said. 
Keenan and Keough clash in search of their first wins at 3 
p.m. Sunday at Riehle Fields. 
Contact Vicky Jacobsen at vjacobs@nd.edu, Andrew Gastelum at agastel1@nd,edu, Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu, Jack Hefferon at wheffero@nd.edu, and Adam Lloren at agastel1@nd.edu, and Sam Gans at sgans@nd.ed 


WOMEN’S INTERHALL 
Ducks ready to take on Phoxes 
By MEGAN GOLDEN, SARAH 
CRIPPIN, MATT UNGER, 
JOSEPH MONARDO, LUCIE 
GORDON, DAVID KENNEY 
Sports Writers 
Defending champions Howard will take on Pangborn Sunday. 
Coming fresh off a bye week, the Phoxes’ (1-0) first victory was a 40-6 blowout over Badin. Players say they believe that as long as the defense lives up to its expectations, this game will serve as a good measuring stick for just how talented the team really is. 
“We all want to be better than last year,” sophomore out­side linebacker Annie Castner said. “We were just so close and I think if we do well against Howard then we’ll know that we have a little more potential to make it to the Stadium.” 
Howard (2-0) is a team that has outscored its previous two opponents, Lewis and Badin, by a total of 38 points with game scores of 18-6 and 26-0, respectively. Despite Howard’s ability to put points on the board, their captain believes defense is the team’s greatest strength. 
“We pride ourselves on our ability to shut down other teams’ offenses,” senior quar­terback Kayla Bishop said. “I think our line needs to continue playing strong. I think they did a good job of putting pressure on the quarterback.” 
The four-interception per­formance by Pangborn’s defense two weeks ago created positive momentum and confi­dence that the team hopes will carry over into this weekend. 
“I think we did play a really great game,” senior quarter­back Gabby Tate said. “We are just kind of keeping up the momentum and not letting that first big win go to our heads, staying humble and trying to do it all over again.” 
Pangborn will face Howard Sunday at 1 p.m. at LaBar Fields. 
Pasquerilla West vs. Walsh 
After falling just a touchdown short of the 2009 interhall crown, Pasquerilla West is off to a convincing start this sea­son. The Purple Weasels look to remain undefeated in their matchup with Walsh Sunday. 
A determined and agile Pasquerilla West (2-0) squad defeated McGlinn 31-14 last weekend behind senior quar­terback Simone Bigi’s 205 pass­ing yards and five touchdowns. Libby Koerbel, senior line­backer and team co-captain, is thrilled about the Purple Weasels’ compelling perform­ance this early in the year. 
“We are very pleased with our performance against McGlinn this past Sunday,” Koerbel said. “It was a hard-fought game, especially in the first half, and a good test of our capabilities on both offense and defense.” 
Despite their success thus far, the Purple Weasels aren’t tak­ing this weekend’s opponents lightly. 
“We take every game serious­ly and are looking forward to a tough and aggressive match up against Walsh,” Koerbel said. “That being said, PW plays to win, and I expect nothing less than more beautiful passes, catches, interceptions and flag-pulls from our girls this Sunday.” 
After falling short in last week’s opener, Walsh is excited to get back on the field and rebound from their 18-7 loss to Ryan. 
“It is always tough to lose the first game of the season, but our loss reminded us that we have to continue to work hard and stay focused to be a con­tender in the playoffs,” senior quarterback Amy Langnecker said. “We are really looking forward to our game against PW this weekend and the chance to really show everyone what we can do.” 
The winless Wild Women look to upset the undefeated Purple Weasels at 4 p.m. Sunday at LaBar Fields. 
McGlinn vs. Welsh Family 
Two West Quad dorms will face off Sunday, as McGlinn and Welsh Family are looking to shake the sour experience of losing lopsided contests to Pasquerilla West in their previ­ous games. 
McGlinn (1-1) will look for offensive leadership from jun­ior quarterback Lauren Miller, whose weapons include senior receiver Kathleen Stanley and junior receiver Kate Tucker. The Shamrocks’ against a Welsh Family offense that was dominated by the Purple Weasels and only gained 49 total yards. 
The Whirlwind, who strug­gled in adjusting to coach Bobby Sullivan’s new offense, gained 45 of those yards on one play for a touchdown. 
Both McGlinn and Welsh Family will seek to rebound from tough losses this Sunday at 3 p.m. at LaBar Fields. 
Cavanaugh vs. Lyons 
Momentum will be up for grabs as two teams coming off big wins will meet Sunday as Cavanaugh lines up against Lyons. 
Following a winless season in which they were held off the scoreboard in every game, Lyons (1-1) entered the win col­umn with a 25-0 drumming of Breen Philips last Sunday. Understandably, the Lions are buoyed by their early success. 
“Our team was very excited with our performance last week,” junior running back, middle linebacker and captain Kat Rodriguez said. “It was so exciting not only for our team to win, but also score.” 
While Lyons may still be get­ting used to winning, the girls 
from 
Cavanaugh (2­
0) have a bit 
offense has strug-“It was so exciting more experi­gled so far this ence with suc­
not only for our team
season, scoring cess in recent only 20 points in to win, but also years. Coming two games. Miller score.” off a season in often looks for which they deep throws that went 3-2 and 
Kat Rodriguez
will produce big earned a play-gains, a high-risk, Lions captain off berth, the 
high-reward strat­egy that produced a 67-yard touch­down pass in Week 1 against Ryan. 
“We will try to open our offense more,” senior McGlinn captain Gillian Allsup said. “We have to learn from the mistakes and missed opportunities from our loss and increase our defensive intensity.” 
Game plan in mind, McGlinn will counter a Welsh Family (0­
1) defense that should be well rested following a bye week after allowing 26 points to Pasquerilla West. 
The Shamrock defense will look to replicate their Week 1 shutout performance against Ryan, in which they returned an interception for a touch­down. Junior linebacker Ayla Bicoy and junior defensive line­man Jill Stinchcomb are expected to lead this effort Chaos hold 
high aspira­
tions for the 2010 season. Led by a core of veteran players, the experi­enced Cavanaugh squad looks to improve in a dramatic way on their 2009 campaign. 
“We want to win another championship for Cavanaugh Hall,” senior center and co-captain Melissa Truitt said. 
While the win last Sunday for Cavanaugh was decidedly less flashy than was the Lions, Truitt said she is satisfied that her team was able to scrape out a 6-0 win over Farley. In order for Cavanaugh to contin­ue to win, however, the offense must improve on their under­whelming performance. The Chaos will continue to rely on their swarming defense, but that does not mean that they 
see CHAOS/page 18 


MEN’S INTERHALL 

Knott and Duncan set to fight for first win 
Dillon prepared to start season; St. Ed’s looks to continue winning ways 
front, so the key is our offensive 
By VICKY JACOBSEN, 
linemen,” senior captain Jordan 
ANDREW GASTELUM, 
Smith said. “This is a veteran 
KELSEY MANNING, JACK 
group that we plan on having a
HEFFERON, ADAM LLOREN, 
lot of success with throughout 
and SAM GANS 
the year.” Being the first game of the 

When Knott and Duncan face year, Smith said he expects some off Sunday, both squads will be of the players to be a little rusty, looking to put narrow opening but does not see it as an excuse losses behind them. The to let up. Juggerknotts (0-1) fell to “I expect there to be a few Morrissey by a final score of 7-6, mental mistakes and assignment while Duncan (0-1) held defend-issues in our first game, but we ing champion Siegfried to just are going to come ready to play,” one field goal in a 3-0 defeat. Smith said. “Ever since the loss 
Knott junior captain Dan in the playoffs last year [to Schaffer called his team’s loss a Morrissey] our boys have been “wake-up call,” noting that the itching to get back on the field team needs to improve its prac-and hit somebody.” tice attendence. Dillon will look to open their 
Although the offense gave a season on a good note while strong effort throughout their O’Neill hopes to extend their win first game, the Juggerknotts will streak when they clash Sunday work for more successful finish-at 3 p.m. at the Riehle fields. ing drives, as they failed to score a touchdown despite entering St. Ed’s vs. Carroll the red zone four times last After a close win over Sorin Sunday. last week, St. Edward’s is slated 
The Highlanders will head to take on Carroll Sunday. back to the drawing board this The 13-12 nail-biter saw mul­week, expecting a clearer under-tiple players stepping in on both standing of the offensive system sides of the ball, including senior 
to translate into  quarterback Matt  
offensive  pro- Abeling  in  his  
duction field.  on  the  “Ever since the loss in  first game defense.  on  
“We need to make sure everyone picks up their assign- the playoffs last year [to Morrissey] our boys have been  Junior captain and running back Jay Mathes is anxious to have a  
ments,” junior captain Paul Scheel said. “The play breaks  itching to get back on the field and hit somebody.”  full squad Sunday. After passing more than he preferred  
up when people  last  game,  
aren’t where they’re supposed to be.”  Jordan Smith Dillon captain  Mathes said he is hoping to re­establish St.  
Despite a dis­ Edward’s physi­ 
appointing lack  cal presence.  

of offensive production, the “We are looking forward to strong defense that frustrated [our players’] return so we can Siegfried has the potential to be get our run offense in gear and just as successful against Knott. really establish it as a dominant 
“I felt like the defense came force,” he said. out and performed even past Thanks to a Week 1 bye, this what I expected,” Scheel said. will be Carroll’s season opener. 
The strong Duncan defense With a respectable 2-1-2 season coupled with a crisper offensive under their belts, the Vermin attack is giving the Highlanders squad (0-0) is looking to improve reason for optimism this week-on that in 2010, with much help end. from its freshmen, who comprise 
“Every week we expect to almost half the team. win,” Scheel said. Sophomore captain Keith 
Knott and Duncan will meet Marrero has the utmost faith in this Sunday at 2 p.m. at Riehle his new recruits. Field. “We are very confident in the 
guys who will be on the field on O’Neill vs. Dillon Sunday,” he said. “We will be 
The old saying “Defense wins counting on our freshmen to championships” will be in full step up and play a big part on effect Sunday as O’Neill takes on the field.” Dillon in what is sure to be a The Vermin will execute a bal­classic game of hard-nosed foot-anced persistent attack on ball. offense and rely on their defense 
In a 6-0 win last weekend, the for support. St. Ed’s, hardened Mob (1-0) did not give up a first by its pressure-filled victory last down the entire game, stifling a week, will take on a less experi-Keough offense that was never enced Carroll squad on Sunday able to find a rhythm. at 1 p.m. at Riehle Fields. 
“We need to keep doing the lit­tle things right,” junior captain Morrissey vs. Alumni Guy Schwartz said. “I was really Young gunslingers will face off happy about how few missed in a physical battle when tackles we had [against Keough] Morrissey takes on Alumni and this is something we are Sunday. definitely going to need to see Last week, the Manor (1-0) again this weekend.” was able to outlast Knott, 7-6, 
Meanwhile, the Big Red (0-0) thanks to an early second half are looking to get off to a strong touchdown throw from fresh-start in their first game of the man quarterback Nick Conrad to year. To counter the Mob’s over-freshman wide receiver Patrick powering defense, Dillon is Dugan. A 60-yard completion counting on the experienced from Conrad to Dugan earlier in offensive line, which returns the drive set up the scoring play. four starters, to protect fresh-Sophomore captain Alex Oloriz man quarterback Kevin Fink in is confident in his freshman tan-his first start. dem. 
“Offensively it all starts up “You could see during the game last week that [Conrad] really progressed,” Oloriz said. “I think he underestimated the level of interhall play, but he def­initely got a feel for it as the game went on.” 
Part of Conrad’s quick transi­tion last week was through the great play of the offensive line, which was able to keep him upright for most of the day. 
“Our offensive line fights hard,” Oloriz said. 
The Dawgs (0-0) enter this weekend’s matchup fresh off of a bye, but are anxious to play after posting a disappointing 0-3-1 record in 2009. 
“You always want to compete, but last year was more like scrimmages,” Alumni junior cap­tain Dan Dansdill said. 
Despite last year’s results, Dansdill has much higher hopes for the current Dawgs. 
“This year, we have better players, better chemistry, and a better quarterback,” Dansdill said. 
That quarterback is freshman Will Cronin, who, along with jun­ior center Tim Curran and junior linebacker Sean O’Brien, will be one of the Dawgs playmakers. They hope to be part of a new Alumni squad with a new game-plan centered around physicality under Dansdill’s captainship. 
“Hit ‘em hard, and get some yards,” Dansdill said. 
Kickoff between Morrissey and Alumni will be at 1 p.m. Sunday at Riehle Fields. 
Sorin vs. Fisher 
Sorin is looking to bounce back this weekend with a victory over Fisher, while the Green Wave is looking to continue breaking the mold of the last three years. 

After a tough 13-12 loss to St. Ed’s (1-0), the Otters (0-1) have put the past behind them and are looking forward to Sunday. Leading Sorin into this weekend will be its three standout sopho­mores: wide receiver Ryan Robinson, quarterback Ted Stinelli and defensive lineman Bobby Shields. The Otters’ foot­ball publicist Bobby Sullivan said he has confidence in his team going into the game. 
“We have been practicing at 3 
a.m. this week to stimulate our lights out offense,” Sullivan said. 
“Fisher is going to need more than men to rock our boat, and I fully expect our defensive cata­lyst Bobby Shields to sit on one of the Fishermen this week.” 
On the flip side, Fisher (1-0) is coming off their first real win in three years with last Sunday’s 6­0 victory over Zahm (0-1). Behind senior running back Michael McMahon and junior quarterback and linebacker Patrick Hertenstein, the Green Wave is expecting to continue their success this weekend. They 
see FISHER/page 19 


college golf courses in the country. Kubinski, who knows 
Greens 


continued from page 24 
with freshman Niall Platt. 
Senior Conor Alan-Lee was part of the winning team from last year’s event and he’s playing well, Kubinski said. 
“Having a senior who knows the course out there is huge for our group,” he said. 
The event will also serve as a showcase for the Warren Golf Course, which was recently named to Golfweek Magazine’s list of the top 15 the course as well as anyone, says the honor is well deserved. 
“It’s a great honor. I’m a lit­tle biased, obviously, but hav­ing been to all the other courses, I think we deserve being in the top five,” Kubinksi said. “It’s still nice to have that honor though.” 
The  event  will  tee  off  
Monday  morning  at  the  
Warren Golf Course.  

Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
SMC SOCCER 
Belles to host Franklin in search of second win 
Observer Staff Report 
The Belles are preparing to host Franklin Sunday in hopes of securing their sec­ond win of the season. Saint Mary’s recently secured their first season victory Sept. 16 off a goal from freshman Jordan Diffenderfer to defeat Illinois Tech 1-0. 
But the Belles were not able to keep the streak going, falling short Tuesday 2-0 to Manchester and bring their record to 1-8. 
Saint Mary’s will look to freshman midfielder Mollie Valencia and junior forward Katelyn Tondo-Steele for offensive production. In addi­tion, Saint Mary’s will hope to improve its second-half defense, as two-thirds of the goals the Belles have allowed have come after the halftime break.A large part of improv­ing second-half play will be decreasing the number of fouls the Belles commit. 
The Grizzlies (3-3) are com­ing off a recent string of loss­es, the last being to the Belles conference foe Trine. Saint Mary’s hopes to capital­ize on those losses when they host Franklin at 2 p.m. Sunday. 


Steps 
continued from page 24 
tion to take those huge steps has come in the form of a string of tournaments against highly competitive teams, including then-ranked No. 18 Invitational and fell to Delaware, Santa Clara and Dayton, but it did give the team a chance to see its hard work pay off. 
Junior outside hitter and co-captain Kristen Dealy was the solo Irish player named to the All-Tournament Team after finishing with 40 kills and 48 digs. Junior 

Arizona and “Every year we go into Frenchy Silva 
No. 18 totaled 54 digs 
the Big East, we feel that 
Dayton. The across 11 
competition has done a good job of preparing the Irish for their con ­ference schedule, Irish coach Debbie Brown said. 
“Every 
the Irish is making sure they are tap­ping into all of the talent on their ros­ter. 
“We have to continue to get better every time we play and each time we get into the prac­tice gym, make sure that we’re maximizing our opportu­

we’re in a competitive spot to be challenging for that championship.” 
Debbie Brown Irish coach 
year we go into the Big East, we feel that we’re in a com­petitive spot to be challenging for that championship, both in the regular season and the tournament, and certainly, that’s our goal,” Brown said. 
An essential part of achiev­ing that goal for Brown and 
nities,” she said. “It’s a matter of continuing to develop our talent and to learn how to uti­lize the strengths of each of the individual players that we have to make it that much better.” 
The Irish are coming off of a challenging weekend in which they hosted the Notre Dame 
Greens 
continued from page 24 
There will be an interesting mixture of experience and inex­perience on the Belles roster this weekend, as two of the five Belles have played this course before. But, Hamilton said his team adjusted well frames 
(4.91/set) for one of her best tournaments yet. 
A break from the aggressive tournament schedule is another positive the Irish are looking forward 
to with the start of the confer­ence season, although the preseason has helped Notre Dame get to where they are today in terms of their suc­cess. 
“I think we have done a good job of working out the kinks so that by the time we 

“I think we have done a good job of working out the kinks so that by the time we reach the end of the regular season, we will be in a good place to move on.” 
Kristen Dealy senior outside hitter 
reach the end of the regular sea­son, we will be in a good place to move on,” Dealy said. “West Virginia and Pitt should both be solid teams, but I think if we come out with confi­dence and play to our potential, we 
won’t have a problem winning our first two matches.” 
The Irish will begin Big East play tonight against West Virginia at 4 p.m. and Pittsburgh Sunday at 2 p.m., both in the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
and was named to the All-Tournament team. Her two-day score of 156 was good to tie for second place. 
A familiar foe awaits the Belles at the Mission Inn Resort, No. 1 Methodist University. The Monarchs captured their second consecutive win at the O’Brien 
Invitational on Monday and are undefeated this season. 

to the course in the “I’d like to be in the Despite fall. 
fnal group going into Methodist ’s 
“With a lot of dominance this 
the last day with the
young players, I year and in the can see the adjust-No.1 team in past, Hamilton ments that need to the country.” said he wants be made right the Belles to away,” Hamilton challenge the 
Mark Hamilton 
said. “They’ve Monarchs. done a great job Belles coach “I’d like to be 
making those adjustments so far. Anyone who plays golf, though, knows that adjust­ments are much more difficult to make on the golf course than on the driving range.” 
This weekend, the Belles need to pay attention to detail, Hamilton said. 
“We’re going to try to eliminate some unforced errors,” Hamilton said. 
Senior Mary Kate Boyce led Saint Mary’s in the O’Brien Invitational, and she will look to set the pace again in Florida. Earlier this week, Boyce was named MIAA Golfer of the Week in the final 
group going 
into the last day with the No. 1 team in the country,” Hamilton said. 
In addition to Methodist, Saint Mary’s will face Allegheny College, Piedmont College, Birmingham Southern College, Berry College, Wartburg College, Rhodes College and Illinois Wesleyan University. 
Saint Mary’s will tee off at the Mission Inn Resort Saturday, and the tournament will conclude Monday. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
Reynolds 
continued from page 24 
Saturday, we were able to get an extra practice in,” Clark said. “From now on until the playoffs, we’ll be going two games a week. This was the longest stretch we’ve had, and hopefully that will serve us well down the line.” 
The Irish had a rough last weekend against Michigan and Michigan State, where they ended play in a scoreless tie against the Wolverines and lost against the Spartans after giv­ing them an early lead, 2-0. 
“We started a little bit slowly in that game and it took us a little time to get up to speed,” Clark said. 
Clark stressed the impor­tance of getting an early lead in the game as one thing he will be looking for in particular against St. John’s. He also said they have worked on convert­ing their offensive strengths, like leading in possessions and shots, into goals. 
“The only way you prove that is by winning, and we’ve got to start turning our superi­ority into goals,” Clark said. “It 

JULIE HERDER/The Observer 
Junior midfelder Chris Sutton looks to turn upfeld in Notre Dame’s 2-0 loss to Michigan State on Sept. 19. 
doesn’t matter if you have noon Saturday and admission superiority with possessions or is free to the public. shots if you can’t turn them into goals.” Contact Molly Sammon at 
Kick-off is scheduled for msammon@nd.edu 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 
Belles to take on entire MIAA 
Observer Staff Report 
Saint Mary’s will head to Olivet Saturday to race in this season ’s MIAA Jamboree. All MIAA teams will be competing in the race, which will play a sig­nificant role in determining the conference champion later this season. 
The MIAA Jamboree race determines one-third of the points of who the conference champion will be, with the 
other two -thirds being decided at the MIAA champi­onships at Calvin College on Oct. 30. 
The Belles recently took eighth at Calvin ’s Knight Invitational among 14 highly competitive teams, including No. 14 Ohio Northern and No. 21 Aquinas. While Saint Mary’s finish of 208 points was behind No. 15 Calvin, the Belles did come out ahead of Adrian and Alma. 
Saint Mary’s posted impressive individual times from junior Joanne Almond, sophomores Julia Kenney and Emma Baker and sen­iors Sam Wassel and Catie Salyer. 
The MIAA Jamboree will take off at 11 a.m. Saturday at Olivet. 


CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK

TUESDAY VARIETY SHOW LAURA McGINN 
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Friday, September 24, 2010 page 24 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Hitting the Big East 
Irish open Big East schedule in search of regular season and tournament championships 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 

Sports Writer  
In 2009, the Irish defeated  
every team in Big East regu­ 
lar season play before falling  
in five sets to Louisville in the  
conference tournament’s  
championship match. This  
year, they don’t plan to let  
that happen, as their confer­ 
ence season begins this week­ 
end against West Virginia  
tonight and Pittsburgh  
Sunday.  
“The team is really excited  
to start conference this week­ 
end because we know we can  
be just as competitive and  
successful as last year, if not  
better,” Irish senior co-cap­ 
tain Angela Puente  
said. “Conference play almost  
feels like a separate season  
altogether so we’re ready to  
take huge steps toward an  
incredible season.”  
Notre Dame’s (7-5) prepara- JAMES DOAN/The Observer  
see STEPS/page 22  Junior outside hitter Kristen Dealy spikes thSept. 17.  e ball during Notre Dame’s 3-2 loss to Delaware on  

SMC GOLF 
Tourney to test Belles in Florida 
By MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
In their second straight week­end facing stiff competition, the No. 5 Belles will head to Howey-in-the-Hills, Fla., to participate in the Fall Preview at the Mission Inn Resort, where the NCAA Division III championships willbe heldforthe14thconsecutiveyear thisspring. 
The Belles finished sixth Monday in the O’Brien National Invitational at the Warren Golf Course, and Belles coach Mark Hamilton said there are a few necessary adjustments before the Bellestravelsouth. 
“It’s a quick turn-around,” Hamilton said. “There are a few shots we need for this course, there’safewelevatedgreens.But generalpreparationisalwaysour ‘MO.’” 
see GREENS/page 22 


MEN’S GOLF 

Fighting Irish Gridiron Golf Classic to feature nation’s best 
next week as they welcome “Last year the advantage event on a team’s home Classic title that the Irish
By CHRIS ALLEN 

several of the best golf pro-was enough to get us the course can have on a round earned in last year’s event. To
Sports Writer 

grams in the country to cam-win,” Kubinski said. “We performance, as the same achieve a repeat, the coach pus for the Fighting Irish were in a tight battle with thing happened in Charleston. has tweaked the Irish lineup. 
After braving the whipping Gridiron Golf Classic. Ohio State and Arkansas, and “At the Charleston “The lineup is a little differ-winds and ocean mist of The tournament will be held the finishing stretch of our Invitational, [College of ent than last week,” Kubinski Kiawah Island, S.C., en route at the Warren Golf Course. course really requires a lot of Charleston] really gave us a said. “ to a second place finish in the Irish coach Jim Kubinski said knowledge and experience. push at the end there on their The team is starting three College of Charleston the team’s familiarity with the It’s tough to put a number on home course,” Kubinski said. juniors, Chris Walker, Max Invitational on Sept. 26-27, course will play an important it, but it definitely helps.” Kubinski will depend on the Scodro and Tom Usher, along the Irish find themselves on role against the competing The Irish are familiar with experience of some of his much more familiar territory teams. the boost that having an older golfers to defend the see JUNIORS/page 21 
MEN’S SOCCER 

Irish welcome St. John’s in conference opener 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
After losing last year’s Big East championship game in a penalty kick shootout to St. Johns, 5-3, the Irish will wel­come the conference rival Red Storm to Alumni Stadium Saturday to begin the 2010 sea­son Big East play. 
“They’re always well coached, they always have good players, and they’re always technically good and tactfully good. They are definitely a good team,” Irish coach Bobby Clark said. “It’ll be a challenge, but not one that we’ll be scared of, it’s one we’re looking forward to.” 
Notre Dame (2-2-2) will be the underdogs for Saturday’s contest against No. 12 St. 
John’s (5-1). St. Johns leads the overall series at 11-3-5, but Notre Dame holds the advan­tage with games played at home (2-2-3). Notre Dame’s last win against St. John’s was in 2007. 
“It’s the opening game in the Big East, and it’s a game against a top 20 team,” Clark said. “A win here could set you off on the right path in the Big East, and it will be a very valu­able win overall.” 
This week marked the longest gap in the season to hold only practices. The amount of games per week picks up after this contest, so the Irish are hopeful that the extra practice time will be obvious on the field come Saturday. 
“Since we aren’t playing until 
see ALUMNI/page 22 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
Pair of Big East games looms 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
With the season’s final non-conference game behind them, the Irish spent the week gear­ing up for a potentially season-defining weekend in the Big East. The No. 5/9 Irish (7-1-0, 1-0-0) will host Cincinnati Friday night and then travel to Kentucky for a matchup with No. 24/18 Louisville Sunday. 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum has impressed the top-to-bot­tom competitiveness of the Big East on his squad, and the team knows this weekend will be a key example of that skill level. 
“The Big East is always a competitive league,” Waldrum said. 
The Bearcats (6-2-1, 0-10) started the season with one of the best season-opening stretches the Cincinnati pro-
see BEARCATS/page 22 



Photo Illustration by Pat Coveney and Blair Chemidlin 

COMMENTARY 

Belief needed for Notre Dame wins 
When Brian Kelly came to Notre Dame, fans were shown a picture of a man who can moti­vate and inspire, who can devel­op players as people and not just as cogs in his football machine. He’s not a just a play-caller or a strategist, was the sentiment. He’s a coach. 
Now we’re going to see if that’s true. 
Two tough losses can wear on any team. The ‘what ifs’ from Michigan and Michigan State are numerous. And now the Irish have to deal with a top-20 opponent that has won its first three games by an average of 38 points. 
Kelly brought out his party line after Saturday’s loss to the Spartans. 
“What do you believe in after a loss like this?” he said. “Do you believe in your teammates, do ers aren’t still completely into Kelly’s program and the mental­ity he has brought. This is, of course, critical. 

Do the Irish believe in their preparation? This goes right along with belief in their coach­ing, to a point, but also gives responsibility to the players themselves to work hard in practice to get better and cor­rect the errors they’ve made. Belief in preparation is belief in themselves, to make it second nature not to make those errors things again. And it seems the Irish have that belief. 
“You’ve got to go work hard and believe in what we’re doing,” sophomore linebacker Manti Te’o said. “If you really love the sport, you don’t let a loss hold you down.” 
From the outside, there’s no reason to think this Irish team doesn’t believe in itself or in its coaching staff. And while belief alone is not enough to beat a team like Stanford, it is a neces­sary factor as Kelly continues to implement his offensive and defensive schemes despite 
uneven results. 
Eventually, 
the schemes 
will be in place 

you believe in Yes, Brian Kelly and the players your coaches, utilized to the 
needs to be smart 
do you believe best of their 
in the prepara-when calling plays abilities. That’s tion? If you do, and he needs to be a what Kelly has you’ll come done at every 
good strategist. But, 
back and we’ll stop in his 
perhaps most 
work harder coaching and we’ll con-important right now, career, most tinue to work to notably at 
Brian Kelly needs to 
get better. Cincinnati. 
be a coach. 
FOOTBALL RECRUITING 
Irish turn their eyes toward 2012 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Writer 
With 19 solid verbal commit­ments already secured for the Class of 2011, most of the Notre Dame staff’s limited game week­end recruiting efforts will be devoted to highly touted high school juniors, Irish recruiting expert Mike Frank said. 
“Right now, Notre Dame is just trying to get as many [Class of] 2012 kids on campus as they can and start qualifying them,” said Frank, who runs the ESPN affili­ate Irish Sports Daily. “They want to see them, talk to them, hope­fully see some game film, and start figuring out if they are their type of kids and will fit into what they want to do.” 
Frank said at least three poten­tial ESPN 150 juniors will visit Notre Dame this weekend: ath­lete Eli Harold, lineman Danny O’Brien and defensive back Brian Poole. 
“It’s important to get a jump on the competition, for the kids to get to campus early and experi­ence a game weekend,” Frank said. “It should be a big help when they’re trying to land some of these kids.” 
Frank called Harold — a 6­foot-4, 215-pound athlete recruit who plays wide receiver for Ocean Lakes in Virginia Beach, Va. — a “big-time talent” who already boasts an impressive list and will likely end up as one of the nation’s top 100 players. 
Poole, who hails from Bradenton, Fla., plays safety at Southeast High School — “a real storied program,” Frank said. He credited Irish wide receivers coach Tony Alford, who heads up recruiting in the Sunshine State, with building relationships with Florida coaches and recruits early in the process. 
“He’s been doing his home­work to get these guys up here,” Frank said. 
O’Brien, a two-way lineman for Powers Catholic in Flint, Mich., has already received an offer from Tennessee and will likely be one of the Midwest’s most covet­ed players, Frank said. 
While the recruiting emphasis might be on the Class of 2012, that doesn’t mean members of the Irish Class of 2011 won’t make the trip to Notre Dame. At least one current commit, line­backer Clay Burton, will make his official visit for the Stanford game, Frank said. 
“He’s a very, very good defen­sive player, a guy who can get after the quarterback,” Frank said of Burton. “He plays in a fantastic league down in Florida. He has excellent athletic ability and a tremendous motor. 
“He’s a really, really important player in this recruiting class.” 
The current class has the look of a national top-10 group, but the key for Irish coach Brian Kelly will be to keep it intact. Frank said Kelly can improve those chances by leading Notre Dame to some victories. 
“The teams they lost to are good football teams,” Frank said. “They’re showing that they’re extremely competitive, and I think kids will be okay with the Irish dropping a game here or there, as long as they are com­petitive. 
“At some point, they’re going to have to start winning some of these games. It seems like they’re real close, they just need a little bit of luck or a ball to bounce their way.” 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 

“If you don’t believe, then these are times when you start to see teams pull apart. So, it’s all about belief at this point.” 
A record of 1-2 isn’t terrible. There are still nine games to play. But with No. 16 Stanford Saturday, followed by a road game at Boston College and a matchup with a Pittsburgh team that is barely out of the top 25, things could get bad pretty fast. Kelly sees that. 
The line of belief may be a corny one, but it’s true — and is probably something Kelly repeats often to his players. 
So, do the Irish believe in their teammates? Looks that way. Junior tight end Kyle Rudolph emphasized belief in his team­mates after Saturday’s loss. 
“We believe in each other,” Rudolph said. “We believe that the guy next to us in the locker room is going to go out and fight just as hard as we are.” 
Do the Irish believe in their coaches? Certainly. To fans, the shine might be starting to wear off of Kelly and his staff, but there is no indication that play­That’s what 
he’s already 
started to do, 
with players like sophomore receiver Theo Riddick and junior defensive ends Kapron Lewis-Moore and Ethan Johnson. 
But for the team to be wholly on board when kinks are worked out and the playbook installed that belief will be cru­cial — belief in their teammates, in their coaches and in them­selves. Because those things probably won’t be finalized this weekend. Maybe not even next weekend or the end of the sea­son. Until they are, Kelly is going to need to find a way to keep the team together. 
Yes, Brian Kelly needs to be smart when calling plays and he needs to be a good strategist. But, perhaps most important right now, Brian Kelly needs to be a coach. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 


Ian in the middle 
In the switch to the 3-4 defense, the Irish rely on defensive tackle Ian Williams more than anyone else 
By SAM WERNER Sports Writer  about the schematic changes, Williams said he was more excited about the new attitude  Williams said that over the off-season, he had freshman defensive lineman Bruce  
the coaching staff brought.  Heggie, who lives about a half- 
Ask any football coach what  “I knew  a  little bit about  hour away in Florida, over to  
the most important position is  them, just watching Cincinnati  his house to show Heggie some  
in  a  3-4 defense is, and the  and some of their games last  workouts.  
response is almost unanimous.  year.  I  kind  of  read  up  on  “I had him come down where  
No matter how talented the  Coach  Kelly,  Coach  Diaco,  I lived and just worked  on  
other players are,  a  defense  Coach Elston when they got  some  things  this  summer,”  
will likely struggle without an  hired,” Williams said. “I was  Williams said. “He just  came  
effective nose guard to clog the  really excited for the opportu­ down,  I  showed  him  some  
middle of the line.  nity to have  a  new  coaching  things to work on, and he just  
For the Irish, that responsi­ staff and just try something  really worked on them by him­ 
bility  falls  on  senior  Ian  new, start fresh.”  self.”  
Williams.  Williams said the technical  Williams added that he mod­ 
“We’ve given him an opportu­ changes  on  the Notre Dame  eled his leadership after the  
nity to play something that he’s  defense weren’t as big a deal to  advice he got from seniors dur­ 
good at,” defensive line coach  him.  ing his freshman year.  
Mike Elston said. “He’s on the  “It doesn’t make that much of  “I mean when I was a fresh- 
center, whipping him. He’s  a  difference to me,” he said.  man, I had Trevor Laws, Justin  
using really good technique.  “I’ll play what I need to play.  Brown and [Pat] Kuntz who  
He’s clued into  Defense  is  were the older guys,” he said.  
indicators. He’s  defense.  I  “They showed me how to play.”  
just doing a really nice job, and it’s impor­tant to him.” New system, new position W i l l i a m s  “It’s all paying off. I mean, we’re 1-2 right now, but I think it’s paying off and we’re getting better.”  know I’ve said that plenty of times, but I’m just trying to go out there and have fun on every play.” In addition to  The newfound leadership role became official this past weekend, when Williams was named a game-day captain, along with junior tight end Kyle Rudolph, for Notre Dame’s showdown against Michigan State. Williams said he was  
entered Notre Dame out of  Ian Williams  Diaco, also  Kelly hired  caught a bit off guard when Kelly called his name out at the  
A l t a m o n t e  senior defensive tackle  strength  and  Friday team meeting, but knew  
Springs, Fla.,  c o n d i t i o n i n g  that someone back home would  
in 2007 as one  coach  Paul  be very happy.  
of ESPN’s top  Longo,  who  “I was very surprised and I  
150 high  school  players.  Williams said has been invalu­ was  very thankful,” he said.  
Recruited to play nose tackle in  able to his development.  “My mom’s been asking for  
then-defensive coordinator  “It’s all paying off,” Williams  four years, ‘Ian when are you  
Corwin Brown’s 3-4 system,  said. “I mean, we’re 1-2 right  going to be  a  captain?’ ‘Ian  
Williams played in all 12 games  now, but I think it’s paying off  when  are  you going to be  a  
his freshman year, starting  and we’re getting better.”  captain?’ So I talked to her on  
two. He totaled 45 tackles on  Saturday and said, ‘Mom, I’m a  
the year and  was  named  a  Old man on the line  captain,’  so  she  was  really TOM LA/The Observer  
Freshman All-American.  In  addition  to  Williams’  proud of me.” Senior defensive tackle Ian Williams fights through blockers  
Since that first year, though,  responsibilities  on  the field,  during Notre Dame’s 34-31 loss at Michigan State Saturday.  
the Irish defense has switched  he’s also the senior man on the  ‘Clog the middle’  
defensive coordinators twice,  Irish defensive line this season.  Against the Spartans, Kelly  “I personally think I didn’t  is not part of Williams’ job  
and moved to defensive coordi­ “I’m the old guy in the group  singled out Williams for his  play that good, so I’ve still got  description is pass defense, but  
nator Jon Tenuta’s 4-3 scheme  now,” Williams said. “So I just  outstanding play.  a lot of work to do,” Williams  in Notre Dame’s last two wins  
in 2009. The switch meant that  feel like I have to be  a  role  “Yeah, he’s  a  man,” Kelly  said. “I really appreciate him  — this year against Purdue and  
Williams had to move to defen­ model for the younger guys.”  said. “I mean, he was dominant  calling me out and giving me a  last year against Washington  
sive tackle, and away from his  Elston said that Williams has  for us. He controlled the line of  little pub, but I just feel person- State  — Williams has recorded  
natural position.  been taking charge by his atti­ scrimmage from his position.  ally that I still have  a  lot of  interceptions.  
When new Irish coach Brian  tude in practice, as well.  Now, he’s got to have help at  things to work on.”  “It’s crazy because D-linemen  
Kelly hired defensive coordina­ “He’s been a leader, he’s been  certain  areas,  but  he  was  While  the  generic  job  never get interceptions so it’s  
tor Bob Diaco this off-season, it  working hard,” Elston said.  clearly a dominating player for  description of a nose guard in a  exciting I got two,” he said.  
meant that Notre Dame  was  “Not a day goes by that I think  us on the defensive side of the  3-4 defense is to “clog the mid- Against Purdue, Williams  
switching back to the 3-4, and  he’s wasting his time, wasting  ball.”  dle,” Williams said it was more  caught the ball after senior  
Williams was moving back to  our  time. He’s been doing  a  While Kelly may have been  specific than that.  cornerback Gary Gray tipped it  
the middle.  nice job. He’s locked in and  pleased, Williams said he still  “[My job is to] make sure the  to him. Williams said he owes  
While much has been made  having fun too.”  has plenty to improve.  ball bounces outside,” he said.  Gray a night out to dinner for  
“Make  sure  the ball doesn’t  helping him get the pick.  
come in any of my gaps.”  Williams is currently tied for  
Once  it  gets  out  there,  the team lead with one inter- 
Williams relies on junior defen­ ception, and has his sights set  
sive ends Kapron Lewis-Moore  on more.  
and Ethan Johnson to make  “I’m trying to go for more,”  
plays. He called Lewis-Moore  Williams said jokingly. “I’m try- 
and Johnson “two of [his] best  ing to lead the team.”  
friends.”  Notre Dame’s defense  cur­ 
“It helps with chemistry, talk­ rently ranks 99th in the coun­ 
ing on the field,” Williams said.  try in run defense, but gave up  
“We can joke around about lit­ negative-6 yards rushing in the  
tle things, keep everything  fourth  quarter against  the  
level on the field.”  Spartans. Kelly said he’s seen  
Despite Williams’ difficult job  improvement in the defense.  
description,  he  has  never  “Being  a  defensive player,  
missed  a  game  during  his  you don’t want the opposing  
three-plus  years  at  Notre  offense to get any points, gain  
Dame. Of that recruiting class,  any yards  or  anything like  
only Williams and linebacker  that,” Williams said. “So, I  
Kerry Neal have accomplished  mean, that’s  a negative right  
that feat.  there. But I  can see  a differ­ 
“Me and Kerry, we’ve worked  ence in us from last year.”  
hard  since  we  got  here  as  Elston  said  that  while  
freshmen,” Williams said. “We  Williams’ strong play didn’t  
made a pact before we got here  surprise him, he foresaw even  
that  we  would just try and  more improvement during his  
make plays in every game that  senior year.  
we play in.”  “I expected him to play the  
Defensive lines naturally take  way he is playing right now, so  
a  pounding  from  game  to  it is not really a shock,” Elston  
game, but Williams said that  said. “He is not yet, but he can  
he’s never been close to miss- be a dominant, dominant nose  
ing a game  — he’s always been  guard.”  
MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer  prepared mentally and physi- 
Senior defensive tackle Ian Williams pursues Michigan quarterback Denard Robinson during  cally.  Contact Sam Werner at  
Notre Dame’s 28-24 loss on  Sept. 11. Williams finished the game with six tackles.  One aspect of the game that  swerner@nd.edu  

Notre Dame 
Fighting Irish 
HEAD T
Record: 1-2 AP: NR Coaches: NR 
First season at 
Irish Offense vs. Cardinal Defense 

Notre Dame 



career record: 
172-59-2 
record at ND: 
1-2 
against Stanford: 
0-0 





Douglas 
Farmer 
Sports Editor 

Notre Dame has played well enough at points this season to beat Stanford, no matter what Stanford’s ranking or average points per game is. 
Notre Dame has also played poorly enough at points this season to be blown out by Stanford. 
We will probably see both versions of the Irish Saturday, but it is how much of the latter version we see that will determine Notre Dame’s fate against the Cardinal. With Jamoris Slaughter back and Michael Floyd wisened up, the Irish will play enough good football this weekend. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34, Stanford 27 

Matt Gamber 
Sports Writer 
I’m not sure when “Notre Dame needs to learn how to win” became the default diagnosis for the program’s recent end-of-game woes, but true or not, I’m tired of hearing it. These guys have worked too hard and come too close to be held back by “not knowing how to win,” whatever that means. 
Saturday’s game could be a turning point for this team, and I think the staff and players realize that. The Irish offense we saw in the second half against Michigan State will come out fir­ing, and the defense will hang on against a tough Cardinal attack to give Notre Dame a shot. 

FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 34, Stanford 31 Eric Prister 

Associate Sports Editor 
On paper, the Irish simply don’t mach up with the Cardinal. Every one of Notre Dame’s strengths matches up with an even greater strength for Stanford. The Irish have passed well so far this year. The Cardinal have the top pass defense in the country. 
But it’s this kind of game that sepa­rates the good coaches from the great ones. Great coaches win games they should not. The Irish are the worse team on paper, but they are playing at home and have something to prove. They’ll do just that this weekend. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, Stanford 30 


Stanford 
Cardinal

O HEAD 
Record: 3-0 AP: 16 Coaches: 17 

Fourth season at Stanford 

Cardinal Offense vs. Irish Defense 

career record: 
46-26 
record at Stanford: 
17-20 
Jim Harbaugh against ND: head coach 1-2 






ST


AN
OFFENSIVE
P
S
H
I
N
G
A
R
U
T
COA
CHING

Stanford is almost certainly better 
We’ve seen flashes of brilliance than any team the Irish have faced 
from the Irish on both sides of the so far this season. Jim Harbaugh is a 
ball. When the offense is working, it top-flight coach, and Andrew Luck is 
can score easily; when the defense is as good as any quarterback in the 
on track it can stop any opponent in country. It’ll help to have safety 
three plays. But those successful Jamoris Slaughter back on the field, 
drives have not been the norm so far. but the Irish are unlikely to solve all 
If Notre Dame can sustain its best of their defensive problems in one 
play for an entire game Saturday, it week. The Cardinal are just too tough will stand a chance against Stanford. a task for an Irish team that’s still However, we haven’t seen any indica­looking for it’s identity. Unless one of tion that it will be able to do so. Notre Dame's marquee players (pag-Stanford is an experienced, well­ing Michael Floyd) has a transcen-coached and consistent team, and dent game, it could be a long day for the Cardinal will likely break Notre the Irish. Dame’s streak of single-score losses. 
FINAL SCORE: Stanford 35, Notre Dame 20 FINAL SCORE: Stanford 38, Notre Dame 27 






Sam Werner 
Sports Writer 


Laura Myers 
Sports Writer 




How much fanfare did you get from your friends and family after getting your first interception in the Michigan State game? 
I got a lot. A lot of people [were] hitting me up on Facebook. 
How badly did you want to run the interception out of the end zone? 
Oh my gosh, I did. You could tell, too. I think if I had, Carlo [Calabrese] would have tackled me. 
When do you think your next interception will be? 
I’m hoping this Saturday. 
Coach Kelly said you are the kind of guy who would give him your arm. Is there anything you would not give to Coach Kelly if he asked for it? 
I’m sure there are some things I probably wouldn’t give him. I don’t know if I would literally give him my arm. 

Irish face challenge in Cardinal quarterback Luck 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
The last time Notre Dame faced Andrew Luck, the red-shirt freshman broke a finger in the fourth quarter of what turned out to be a 45-38 Stanford win on Nov. 28, 2009. Despite his inability to lead his team 


“[Andrew Luck] is a
in a bowl game, Luck great player. He can earned fresh-
run and throw it. 
man All-

Obviously he’s got a big 
America hon­ors, among arm ... He really runs it other awards, 
well so he’s a tough 
for his first 

challenge for us.” 
season. Before the 2010 season, Harrison Smith Cardinal 
Irish safety
coach Jim Harbaugh had high praise for his now-sophomore quar­terback. 
“He’s the best I’ve been around, pro or college,” Harbaugh said in a press con­ference before the season. “He’s just got no red flags about him whatsoever.” 
In a press conference Tuesday, Irish senior corner­back Darrin Walls had a simi­lar sentiment. 
“He’s one of the best quar­terbacks we’re going to play this year,” Walls said. 
Through three games, Luck has lived up to the praise — he is 45-for-70 passing for 674 yards and 10 touchdowns. He also has 13 rushing attempts for 150 yards and a touch­down. He has yet to throw an interception. 
“[Luck] is a great player. He can run it and throw it,” senior safety Harrison Smith said. “Obviously he’s got a big arm. He’s got a lot of guys around him, including his offensive line, that are great players. So that just helps him. He’s really got a lot of weapons. He’s com­fortable in their system. He 
really runs it well so he’s a tough challenge for us.” 
Irish coach Brian Kelly said Luck is at the center of a tough Stanford offense. 
“They’re phys­ical, they’re multiple on offense,” Kelly said. “You can see the quarter­back is kind of at the helm 
there in terms of calling plays. He’s always probing and look­ing for opportunities.” 
Luck’s supporting cast includes receivers Doug Baldwin and Ryan Whalen, who have each caught 10 pass­es for 194 and 113 yards, respectively, and running back Stepfan Taylor, who has rushed 31 times for 162 yards. 
Against Wake Forest on Sept. 18, Luck went 17-for-23 pass­ing for 207 yards and four touchdowns, and ran for 69 yards, including a 52-yard run for a touchdown. The Cardinal won the game 68-24; they have won their first three games by an average of 38 points. 
Luck would only credit his teammates for the success. 
“We got lucky sometimes,” Luck said after the Wake Forest game. “Our coaches put us in a great position, the o-line blocked their butts off, the running backs ran hard. It was a great team effort.” 
His coach was more effusive with the praise. 
“[Luck] played a flawless game,” Harbaugh. 
Kelly said it was hard to judge Luck’s play based off of the film of the lopsided victory, but it is easy to see what type of player he is. 
“The game is out of hand, but he was making all of the throws against Wake Forest,” Kelly said. “He was hitting the wide field, go route, intermedi­ate. The thing that really got my attention is his ability to run. … His ability, his escapa­bility, I didn’t know what it was. I now know what it is. The guy is extremely athletic.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

Elston returns to Irish after missing two games 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
Every game Mike Elston has coached on the Notre Dame sideline, the Irish have won. 
Unfortunately, Elston has missed the last two games as he recovered from an illness that plagued him since before fall camp began. 
“The first day I started feel­ing poorly was August 2nd, right before camp began,” Elston said Tuesday, after his second practice back with the Irish since missing the majori­ty of two weeks. “I’m not going to say a lot about it, but it was a lot more than what every­body knows and it was a scary time for me and my family.” 
Elston stuck with the Irish through fall camp and coached the defensive line and special teams in Notre Dame’s victory over Purdue, until Irish coach Brian Kelly told Elston he was too sick to keep coach­ing. 
“I didn’t decide [to leave the team],” Elston said. “Coach Kelly decided for me.” 
Elston said the toughest part of his ordeal was stepping away from the team right in the beginning of the season. 
“We put so much into it over the summer and fall camp, and to not be a part of it with the guys that you love and the guys that love you — that was the hardest part,” Elston said. “A lot of guys were trying to reach out and give me their best.” 
Senior defensive tackle Ian Williams was one of the many players who sent Elston mes­sages during his absence, sending two text messages in the two weeks. 
“I didn’t really want to both­er him because I knew he was with his family, so I wanted to give him his time and space,” Williams said. “But I sent him two texts letting him know I was thinking about him and I missed him.” 
Upon his return to the locker room late last week, Elston received a standing ovation from the players, surprised by his arrival. 
“It’s good to have him back,” junior defensive end Ethan Johnson said. “Everyone is excited to have him back. It is as simple as that. Everyone really likes coach Elston and he does a great job, brings a lot to the table and he’s a great guy.” 
While the team took the field minus Elston against Michigan, he attempted to watch the game from his hos­pital room. 
“I was on the cardiac floor at Mayo Clinic, and they always had to have on a heart monitor,” he said. “When that game came on, my average heart rate was ridiculous, so they had to take me off the heart monitor for during the game.” 
Elston watched Notre Dame’s loss at Michigan State from the sidelines in a non-coaching role, and despite the result, was grateful for that opportunity compared to his situation for the Michigan game. 

“Obviously the outcome was as painful, if not more painful, losing on the last play of the game,” Elston said. “Being there with the guys and seeing the game unfold, that is better than being in a hospital bed having a heart monitor go off every time something was going on.” 
In the light of Michigan State coach Mark Dantonio suffering a heart attack after last week­end’s game, Elston said he realizes the dangers of coach­ing on the sideline. 
“I can only imagine what [my heart rate] would have been like on the sidelines,” Elston said. “I bet you a coach’s heart rate during a game for the whole four or five hours is probably 150 or 160 beats per minute.” 
Nonetheless, Elston is not about to leave the sideline or the team again soon. 
“It made me appreciate it a bunch,” he said. “I can’t even give you an answer long enough. It makes me appreci­ate everything in life.” 
The team, and especially Williams and the defensive line, is glad to have Elston back in practice. 
“I just gave him a big hug, like ‘Thanks coach for fighting through this,’” Williams said. “I’m glad to have him back.” 
Elston said he is not 100 percent, but will be with the team for the rest of the sea­son. 
“I’m not 100 percent yet, but I’m working that way … Next week I have some appoint­ments,” he said. “But Sunday I got my blowhorn and whistle back, and am able to game plan for Stanford.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 









