the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


First four fall pep rallies planned 
Soler, Bell seek new venues; guest speakers targeted to boost energy, create excitement 
By CAITLYN KALSCHEUR 
News Writer 
Student body president Catherine Soler said student government is working with the University to make football pep rallies “shorter but more excit­ing” due to some student dissat­isfaction with last year’s rallies. 
Student body vice president Andrew Bell said student gov­ernment worked with Game Day Operations, the Athletic Department, football team rep­resentatives and Hall Presidents’ Council co-chairs Alexa Doyle and Mike Oliver. 
“Our discussion focused on the fact that while all alumni, prospective students and mem­bers of the Notre Dame commu­nity are welcome to the pep ral­lies, the students and the foot­ball team should be the heart of every rally,” Bell said. 
Soler added: “We hope every­one is excited for pep rally sea­son. It’s a collaborative process, so while the students and the players are the focus, everyone can have a good time.” 
Soler said first-year Irish foot­ball coach Brian Kelly told her he is also excited about improv­ing the pep rallies. She said Kelly want students more involved in creating successful pep rallies. 
“We hope that students will see that the pep rally format is different,” Bell said. “Some peo­ple were disappointed with pep rallies last year but we hope that they will come to the rallies next year and feel engaged and want to be involved.” 

“The biggest changes Soler and Bell are introducing are new venues and new traditions to enhance the energy and over­all experience of pep rallies. 




Graduate students seek policy change 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Graduate student families are suffering from a lack of ade­quate health care and need the University to rethink its policies to better encourage community around women who are consid­ering or engaged in family life, graduate theology student Ricky Klee said. 
Graduate students, their spouses, and many of their young children gathered around the Main Building Monday to demonstrate and petition the University to create for family-friendly policies for the gradu­ate student community. 
“We are not where we want to be in our support of graduate students,” Graduate School dean Greg Sterling said. “But we are working to get there.” 
The petition states: “With sub­stantial resources and a com­mitment as a Catholic university to recognize and support the inherent dignity of all human life Notre Dame must provide a comparable degree of support for student families.” 
According to Klee, the health care plan offered to students is unaffordable with the stipend provided. 
Graduate theology student Kevin Haley said that while his plan as a student is reasonable and affordable, his wife Danielle has gone uninsured because of the shortcomings in the state health care plan that his family has chosen for her and their children in lieu of paying for the University’s option. 
“For a University that so val­ues Catholic ideology, it is a problem for families, for spous­es and for children that we are 
see POLICY/page 6 

“This is the first time that Notre Dame is actively seeking guest speakers for pep rallies,” Soler said. “We want big, excit­ing people to come and be a part of the experience.” 
The first pep rally will be the Dillon Hall pep rally on South Quad. 
“We’re very excited to be back at Dillon, upholding the long­standing tradition,” Bell said, “Last year’s reception and atmosphere were great, but there are ways that it can improve.” 
Bell said improvements for the Dillon pep rally would include better visibility, sound quality and a shorter length. 
see RALLIES/page 4 


Volcano disrupts students abroad 
By TONY RIVERA 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students on campus may not have felt the effects of the volcanic eruption in Iceland over the past week, but the same can­not be said for those abroad. 
“Frustrating, confusing, spontaneous,” junior Claire Brosnihan said when asked to describe her time in Europe since the eruption. “This is my spring break, so I was planning on going from Munich to Istanbul, then Athens, then Santorini, then Paris.” 
Yet with the eruption of Eyjafjallajökull those plans never worked out. 
Currently studying in Notre Dame’s Angers Program, Brosnihan is one of many Notre Dame students abroad who have found difficulty traveling over the past week due to the volcano. 
“I’ve been stuck in Munich for three days,” Brosnihan said. 
After all flights in Munich Airport were cancelled, Brosnihan said she was unable to get a refund for two of her flights and spent 


Brian Kelly to build on community 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
Irish head football coach Brian Kelly told students that the foot­ball team needs to “get back to a collegiate sense of community” at a meeting with student govern­ment Tuesday. 
Speaking to members of the Hall Presidents’ Council (HPC) and the Council of Representatives (COR) at the Guglielmino Athl eti cs Kelly Compl ex, Kelly described the overhaul the football team recently underwent 

— and he wasn’t talking in terms of offense and defense. 
Instead, Kelly said he was expecting the football team to get rid of the attitude of “us” and “them” and become a part of the student body. 
“My job is to reconnect some of the things that I believe haven’t been emphasized in the proper manner,” Kelly said to the stu­dents. “This is not a relationship 
see KELLY/page 4 

hours trying to find a way to make it to Istanbul without flying, though she realized it would be impossible. Now 
see VOLCANO/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC teams place in global math contest page 3  Bald and beautiful page 12  Players to shave heads for charity 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Wednesday, April 21, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Blogrollin’ time 
Ah, its that time of year again. AnTostal organizers are flinging free food left and right outside DeBart, the Blue-Gold Game is modestly mundane and procrastination reigns supreme in the heights of the Hesburgh Library. 
My essay writing breaks consist of compulsively clicking on my extensive list of bookmarked blogs. These glorious little nuggets are shelved in the folder fittingly entitled “Trash,” as if by labeling it that I Jordan Gamble can make myself not 

Scene Editor
waste time. 

1. Jezebel.com — Home to celebrity fashion analysis, Saturday Night Live recaps and a snarky, feminist take on the news, this blog is my continually-updated procrastination crack. The links to news sites can get me branching off into a web of time-wasting, but the photo galleries of red carpet fash­ion are the place to be when I need a truly mindless respite from American Studies essays. 
2. ThingsNotreDameStudentsLike.com 
— Now up to No. 81 (“Talking About Being Godparents”), this blog by Notre Dame alum and Observer Viewpoint columnist Bob Kessler is great for those who like their distraction to be full of inside jokes. My favorites are “No. 2: Complaining About The Shirt and Then Wearing It” and “No. 29 Telling People When They Have an Organic Chemistry Exam.” Kessler updates about every week or so, which is very considerate of him, since it keeps me from devoting too much time to the site. 
3. 
HerLoyalSons.com — One of the bet­ter maintained and coherent Notre Dame football blogs, Her Loyal Sons is run by six Notre Dame football fanatics (at least one is a former Dillon resident). They dutifully criticize USC, Michigan and Urban Meyer. Sometimes they even take a time out to praise Luke Harangody. What I really appreciate about Her Loyal Sons is that they often support their claims with substantive evidence in the form of nifty stats graphics. Posts tend to thin out after football season, but with the arrival of Brian Kelly last year, the con­tent has been pretty robust. 

4. 
Movies in 15 Minutes (http://commu­nity.livejournal.com/m15m/) — Prolific blogger Cleolinda Jones cranks out these hilarious takes on popular movies. The spoofs of movies like “Harry Potter,” “Phantom of the Opera” and “Clash of the Titans” come in script form, with Cleolinda parodying bad dialogue and shoddy plot holes. Sometimes the results are so hilarious I have to stifle laughter for fear of alarming other people on my floor of the Library. 

5. 
GodHatesProtesters.blogspot.com — In the spirit of People of Walmart and FailBlog, this photo blog chronicles mis­spelled signs and the people who hold them. My favorites are the photobombs and parodies, especially one sign with the Canadian flag that reads “God hates America: 3-2,” in reference to the American Olympic hockey team’s defeat. 


The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

In the April 20 edition, a graphic depicting percent­ages of undergraduate student satisfaction taken from the ImproveND survey misidentified the percentages of student satisfaction. The graphic should have read: 91 percent of students were satisfied with extracurricu­lars, 88 percent were satisfied with sense of communi­ty, 78 percent were satisfied with support of students and 41 percent were satisfied with diversity on cam­pus. The Observer regrets this error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU GO NG TO DO TO HELP THE EARTH ON EARTH DAY? 






Pavielle Goldman  Katie Washington  Kathleen Monahan  Kelly McGauley  Maggie Wydysh  
sophomore Lyons  senior off campus  freshman Farley  junior Howard  sophomore Ryan  
“Make sure I unplug all electronics, turn off all of  “Write my valedictorian speech by hand instead of on  “Give up on homework to save paper.”  “Use my re-usable coffee container instead of a  “Buy my mom a present because it’s her birthday — but I won’t  
my lights and recycle everything.”  the computer.”  paper one.”  wrap it to save paper!”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Students get free ice cream from an ice cream truck on North Quad Tuesday. The free ice cream truck was a part of AnTostal, and a showing of the movie “Brink!” followed that evening. AnTostal activities continue through the week. 
OFFBEAT 

Black bear with head stuck in milk can rescued 
READING, Vt. — A 120­pound Vermont black bear is back in the woods after get­ting its head stuck in a milk can. It took a state biologist, firefighters and police about 45 minutes to free the bear’s head from the can after the animal was found late Sunday morning off Vermont Route 106 in the town of Reading. 
The Rutland Herald said officials estimate the bear had its head stuck in the old fash­ioned milk can for at least six hours before it was found. 
Fish and Wildlife Biologist Forrest Hammond said the bear had been running and bumping into trees and boul­ders. 
Hammond used soap to lubricate the bear’s head so the can could be pulled off, but it didn’t work. Firefighters helped him cut the can off. 
Australian aerobics class postponed due to crocodile 
SYDNEY — The biweekly water aerobics class at a holi­day park in northern Australia was postponed Tuesday when an unwanted guest entered the pool — a 5­foot-long crocodile. 
Workers at the Howard Springs Holiday Park on the outskirts of the tropical northern city of Darwin went to the pool to scoop out leaves and otherwise prepare it for the class when they were surprised to find the croc, which had apparently crawled under a fence from a nearby swamp. 
“We went down like nor­mal to check the pool out because Tuesdays and Thursdays the local ladies of Howard Springs do their water aerobics,” park man­ager Geoff Thompson was quoted as saying on the Australian Broadcasting Corp.’s Web site. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday 

IN BRIEF 
The Notre Dame Women’s Liturgical Choir’s final con­cert of the year will be tonight in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 7:30 p.m. The concert will last about an hour. It is free and open to the public. 
The Best of Acousticafe will be held Thursday from 10 
p.m. to midnight in Legends. The event will feature live stu­dent musical performances. The event is free. 
The Shirt Unveiling Ceremony will be Friday at 
5:45 p.m. at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. The event will feature remarks from Irish Coach Brian Kelly, and shirts will be available for purchase immediately after the ceremony. 
The Notre Dame Bike Fest 2010 will be Friday from noon to 7 p.m. in front of the Rockne Memorial building. Bike registration, free tune ups, safety skills and bike clubs will all be available. 
The Blue and Gold Game will be held Saturday at the Notre Dame Football Stadium starting at 1:35 p.m. 
The 3rd Annual Father Ted Fun Run/Walk will be held Sunday starting and ending at South Dining Hall, with regis­tration beginning at 1:15 p.m. and races beginning at 3:30 
p.m. All proceeds go toward the Upward Bound program, helping low-income high school students become first-generation college graduates. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Saturday Sunday 


Atlanta 75 / 47 Boston 69 / 48 Chicago 52 / 38 Denver 64 / 51 Houston 78 / 57 Los Angeles 60 / 48 Minneapolis 64 / 40 New York 68 / 51 Philadelphia 66 / 50 Phoenix 64 / 50 Seattle 57 / 44 St. Louis 71 / 50 Tampa 81 / 64 Washington 61 / 49 
Wednesday, April 21, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Group discusses Dollars 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR) dis­cussed the proposition of a new program that would allow Domer Dollars to be spent at certain locations off-campus at their meeting Tuesday night. 
“If we pursued this initia­tive, it would be a lot of work and a lot of money,” student body president Catherine Soler said. “What we need to ask is if this is necessary and would students really use a program like this.” 
She referenced a similar program at Villanova University that had proved beneficial to the students and the University because 5 per­cent of the sales went back to Villanova. Soler said that if Domer Dollars were to expand, it would hopefully be constructed in the same man­ner so that money would be coming back to Notre Dame. 
“Another reason to look into this now is that a lot of the places already have the tech­nology it would take to make this happen,” Soler said. 
After saying the initiative was in the proposal stages and “by no means a sure thing,” Soler requested feedback from COR members. Soler listed the concerns already expressed by administrators and University officials regarding the usage of Domer Dollars off-campus. One of the major issues was if the initiative was to become a reality, there are anxieties over whether the program would take business away from services on cam­pus. 
Soler said if the proposal were to become a reality, it would be tested for a few months in a contained area of businesses, most likely Eddy Street Commons. If it proved to be successful, the service could be expanded to other businesses in the community but then there would be a question over where specifi­cally it would expand. 


COR members voiced their own questions, including whether or not the program would even change anything for students since Domer Dollars is from students’ per­sonal funds and not the University, and over who would get to decide which businesses in the community would be selected to accept Domer Dollars. 
In response to the concerns voiced by members, student body vice president Andrew Bell suggested looking into a discount program at selected businesses either in conjunc­tion or as a substitute for the expansion of Domer Dollars. 
“If all the time that is going to be spent on the Domer Dollar program could be spent on developing a discount pro­gram, that might be more effective,” he said. 
The majority of COR mem­bers expressed more enthusi­asm for an effective discount program as opposed to the expansion of Domer Dollars. However, Soler said she thought it was “harder to sell” a discount program. 
“The main question we have to ask ourselves about both of these initiatives is whether or not they provide an advantage to the students,” she said. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 
Dual Degree students enjoy both campuses 
By BRITTANY VANSNEPSON 
News Writer 
A small group of Saint Mary’s students are getting the best of both worlds as they take Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s courses through participating in the Dual Degree Program. 
The Dual Degree Program is a five-year program in which the students attain a bachelor’s degree in math or science at Saint Mary’s and receive another bachelor’s degree in engineering at Notre Dame. 
“The program allows us to be an integral part of the Saint Mary’s community while exploring the benefits of a degree at Notre Dame,” Angela Willson, a sopho ­more in the Dual Degree Program, said. “There is nothing better than coming back to the Saint Mary ’s campus and feeling like you are home where you belong.” 
The first year of the pro­gram immerses students exclusively in Saint Mary’s courses to help them accli­mate to college life. Then students start taking classes at Notre Dame during their sophomore year. 
“The transition from all Saint Mary’s classes to hav­ing classes over at Notre Dame was jarring because it was a big change from attending smaller classes to being in this huge lecture hall with 100 other people,” said Taylor Chamberlain, a sophomore chemistry and chemical engineering double major. 
The Dual Degree Program has students taking classes on both campuses through­out their sophomore, junior and senior years. The fifth year of the program has stu­dents solely dedicated to taking Notre Dame courses. 
“I look forward to continu­ing more classes at Notre Dame,” Willson said. “When you’re a sophomore in the program, you really haven’t begun to explore your actu­al intended engineering major.” 
All Dual Degree partici­pants must submit an appli­cation to Notre Dame in order to finish their fifth year in the program. 
“The possibility that I may not be accepted into the fifth year of the program is a constant concern,” Chamberlain said. “But I don’t dwell on it too much because I don’t want to do anything else.” 
Contact Brittany VanSnepson at bvansn01@saintmarys.edu 
College’s teams place in global math contest 


By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Two teams of Saint Mary’s women proved the College has a competitive math department when they were recognized at the “The Mathematical Contest in Modeling,” held by the Consortium for Mathematics and its Applications (COMAP). 
The teams competed from Feb. 18 through Feb. 22 on campus over and submitted their answers online. 
The results of the internation­al contest were recently announced, and both of the teams representing Saint Mary’s received recognition. 
The rankings for the competi­tion are Outstanding Winner, Finalist, Meritorious Winner, Honorable Mention, Successful Participant and Unsuccessful Participant, respectively. 
Senior Mary Zahm and juniors Emily Gore and Ashley Crish were each recognized as a “Meritorious Winner.” Only about 19 percent of teams received this honor this year, Zahm said. 
She said this was only the third time Saint Mary’s students have been awarded this title since they began competing in this contest. The last time a team received this recognition was in 1998. 
“Most participants receive a standing of either Successful Participant or Honorable Mention, so to receive the rank­ing of Meritorious is quite an honor,” Zahm said. 
Zahm said the contest began when COMAP posted two math­ematical questions on its Web site Friday evening, and the teams were given until 8 p.m. the following Monday to send in their answers. 
“It was largely a team effort,” Zahm said. “One of the main contributions I made was mak­ing a trip to the library to pick up some print sources and crunching some of the numbers using our mathematical model. We all helped contribute to the brain work and the writing of the report, and all of our work was done while we were togeth­er.” 
Juniors Meg Griffin and Grace McClurkin and senior Renee Wolbert were designated “Successful Participants.” 
The students spent the six weeks leading up to the week­end in a course taught by an advisor, Saint Mary’s math pro­fessor Bogdan Vajiac. 
“In this course our advisor, Bogdan Vajiac, reviewed with us various techniques and mathe­matical topics that might come up in the problems,” Zahm said. 
Vajiac said he was impressed by his students’ accomplish­ments. 
“This competition is interna­tional, with more than 2,500 teams participating from all over the world — more than 400 from the U.S.,” Vajiac said. “We are very proud of our students.” 
Zahm said it was a large effort, but paid off in the end. 
“It’s a lot of time and effort over one weekend, but I think that I would definitely give it another shot,” Zahm said. “It was certainly rewarding in the end.” 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 21, 2010 
Kelly 
continued from page 1 
of separation. It should be all of us together.” 
Kelly said he saw a divide between student-athletes and the rest of the student body when he arrived on campus this past winter. He said he believes football is the best way to “get the bridge between stu­dents and athletes back.” 
“I want the players to reen­gage with something that is really unique to Notre Dame,” he said. “Part of that is the community and the love stu­dents have for what happens on this campus.” 
In a personal attempt to have his players engage more with the student body, Kelly said he is looking for some different characteristics when it comes to recruiting. 
“The kind of guys that I am recruiting here now are going to be hardworking and they better recognize the value of the Notre Dame education,” he said. “Not all of them will be on the same elite level as the stu­dents in this room, but they are going to work their butts off.” 
Hoping to redefine what it means to be a football player at Notre Dame, Kelly gave a description of what he hopes people see when they look at the team. 
“At the end of the day, I am looking for tough gentlemen — tough on the field and gentle­men off,” he said. 

Now that the players knows what is demanded of them off the field, Kelly said they are more committed to their job, which, he said, is not being just a football player but being a Notre Dame football player. 
“The number one thing I talk to my players about is whether or not they care,” he said. “If you aren’t excited to play for the University of Notre Dame then you are not going to play here.” 
Kelly said he doesn’t want to have players who don’t under­stand the importance of the University they represent when they run out onto the field. 
“My players should under­stand that if they’re going to come to Notre Dame, it’s going to be about being at a unique place,” he said. “There is a uniqueness to us that doesn’t make us better or worse, but it makes us different. The right kinds of guys understand that.” 
Elaborating on what he thought was the right personal­ity for his football team, Kelly told the students the players they will be seeing will bear lit­tle resemblance to some of recent years. 
“We’re not going to be bring­ing in guys who want to hang out here while they wait for the NFL. Those days are over,” he said. “I want guys who want to play for Our Lady — I usually get what I want.” 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 
Expert discusses ‘food revolution’ 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
Leadership on food issues in the White House has set a national standard for the food revolution, an expert said Tuesday evening. 
Marion Nestle, professor of Nutrition, Food Studies and Public Health at New York University, delivered a lecture titled, “Sustainability: The Key to Today’s Food Revolution,” as a part of Notre Dame’s “Food for Thought” film and lecture series in the Hesburgh Center auditori­um Tuesday. 
“I really think that there is a food revolution going on in this country,” Nestle said. 
According to Nestle, rates of obesity have risen dramatically in the past 30 years. 
“This trend isn’t just a matter of personal choice, but also a part of the food environment in which we live,” she said. 
There is strong evidence that people are eating more, and there hasn’t been a big decline in physical activity, Nestle said. 
“We live in a country where we have a great deal of food and people are confused about what to eat,” she said. “There is defi­nitely a gorge-yourself environ­ment with too much food, too many choices and too much eat­ing.” 
Nestle said this type of a food environment has arisen for a variety of reasons. 

“Farmers were once paid not to grow food, and now they’re being paid to grow as much food as they can,” she said. “The number of women going back into the workforce and the way Wall Street now evaluates cor­porations are also a big reasons for why people are eating more.” 
People not only tend to eat more food, but more of the wrong kinds of food, Nestle said. 
“Even thought a lot of compa­nies are coming out with more and more ‘better-for-you’ prod­ucts, they aren’t necessarily the best choice for you,” she said. “People don’t realize that the goals of business and the goals of public health are so differ­ent.” 
Nestle said she believes a national food revolution has been set in motion to counteract these trends. 
“The food revolution isn’t a social movement in the classic way,” she said. “It is very grass­roots and is fragment along so many different issues, such as the organics movement or the school food movement.” 
She said government pro­grams, such as Michelle Obama’s push to end childhood obesity, make an integral contri­bution to the food revolution. 
“We certainly have a new era in personal and social responsi­bility for sustainable food choic­es and one that I hope will con­tinue to grow,” Nestle said. 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 
Rallies 
continued from page 1 
The second pep rally will be outdoors at Irish Green for the Michigan game. Students voiced concerns about the Irish Green pep rallies after disappointment from this past year. 
“All of us, including the athletic department, acknowledge that it needs change, but the outdoor pep rally is conducive to a really great atmosphere, similar to the USC pep rally from last year,” Soler said. 
She said because of the size of the game and expected crowd attending the pep rally, organiz­ers want to emphasize the stu­dents and players. 
“The pep rally will be focused around the players’ theme for the week to give the public a bet­ter glimpse at what the players are experiencing,” Soler said. “It’s time to start new traditions with the Kelly era.” 
One such new tradition, Bell said, will be a student body entrance onto Irish Green. 
“Each dorm will have its own walkover, but they will all meet somewhere like the flagpole on South Quad,” Bell said. “Then everyone will walk down to the pep rally together.” 
For the Stanford game, the pep rally will take place for the first time in Purcell Pavilion, reminis­cent of the Joyce Center rallies from two years ago. 
“We all look back and love the old JACC pep rallies, but they weren’t perfect and students were upset about that,” Bell said. 
While the exact details of how everyone will be situated for the Purcell Pavilion rally are not yet determined, Bell said, there won’t be players sitting in the n’t fill up last year, but everyone that went had a great time.” 


Soler and Bell have only planned the first four pep rallies to be able to take into account student feedback after each one before meeting with their group to plan the rest of the season. 
“We’re students too, and we went to last year’s pep rallies and see that they need to be improved,” Bell said. “We feel like we are getting the opportu­nity to discover the best location, length and format to figure out exactly how to get correct focus on the students and the team.” 
Contact Caitlyn Kalscheur at ckalsche@nd.edu 
middle of an empty basketball court and students just sitting around it. 
Just like last year, there will be a students-only pep rally at Stepan Center for the away game at Boston College. 
“Next year, Coach Kelly and the entire football team will be there,” Soler said. “We’re excited to have the full support of the team at the pep rally.” 
Bell said the format for the Stepan rally wouldn’t change much from last year and will include a rowdy atmosphere, loud marching band and the football team. 
“We expect that it will be packed,” Bell said. “Stepan did­


World & Nation 
Wednesday, April 21, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Argentina’s last dictator convicted 
BUENOS AIRES — Argentina’s last dictator was convicted and sentenced to 25 years in prison Tuesday for torture and illegal detentions committed during the nation’s 1976-1983 mili­tary regime. 
Reynaldo Bignone, 82, shared responsibility in 56 cases involving break-ins, robbery, illegal detentions and torture in one of Argentina’s largest torture centers, the Campo de Mayo mili­tary base, the tribunal ruled. 
“Today is a good day for Argentines,” said Estela de Carlotto, president of the Grandmothers of the Plaza Mayo human rights group. “We are in agreement (with the ruling), but a lot remains to be done. There are hun­dreds more accused.” 
Consortium wins rights to build dam 
BRASILIA, Brazil — A consortium of nine companies has won the rights to build one of the world’s largest hydroelectric dams, Brazilian authorities said Tuesday. 
Brazil’s electricity regulator, Aneel, said the Norte Energia consortium won the bidding process for the huge Amazon project, which is heavily opposed by environmentalists, Indians and the director of the blockbuster movie “Avatar.” 
The consortium is led by state-controlled Companhia Hidro Eletrica do Sao Francisco, which offered a price of 77.97 reals ($57.12) per megawatt produced. The other partners are all private. The consortium had only one competi­tor: the Belo Monte consortium, composed of six companies. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Father accused of incest sentenced 
HARRISONVILLE, Mo. — A 47-year-old man accused of impregnating his daughter four times and causing the death of one of the babies was convicted of second-degree murder and other charges on Tuesday. 
Jurors took about 2½ hours to convict the western Missouri man, who is not being identified by The Associated Press to protect the identity of the daughter. He was also found guilty of six other counts, including incest, statutory rape, child endangerment and abandonment of a corpse. 
The jury began deliberating his sentence later Tuesday. The defendant faces up to life in prison for the murder conviction. 
Report says youth obesity a problem 
WASHINGTON — Too fat to fight? Many American children are so overweight from being fed french fries, pizza and other unhealthy foods at school lunchrooms that they cannot handle the physical rigors of being in the military, a group of retired offi­cers say in a new report. 
National security is threatened by the sharp rise in obesity rates for young people over the last 15 years, the group Mission: Readiness contends. Weight problems are now the leading medical reason that recruits are rejected, the group says, and thus jeop­ardize the military’s ability to fill its ranks. 
In a report released Tuesday, the group says that 9 million young adults, or 27 per­cent of all Americans ages 17 to 24, are too fat to join the military. The retired officers were on Capitol Hill advocating for passage of a wide-ranging nutrition bill that aims to make the nation’s school lunches healthier. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Medical state not cause of crash 
LANCASTER, Ind. — Indiana State Police say an autopsy shows an 81-year­old pilot had no medical condition that could have caused him to crash his sin­gle-engine plane. 
The autopsy on Dr. Henry Schirmer Riley was performed Tuesday, a day after his Piper Comanche 250 crashed in a southern Indiana field a few minutes after taking off from an airport in Madison. 
State police say final autopsy results won't be available for several weeks. 
BRAZIL 

Priest arrested for sexual abuse 
Network broadcasts tape of Monsignor Barbosa in bed with a 19-year-old 
Associated Press 

SAO PAULO — The detention of an 83-year­old priest in Brazil for allegedly abusing boys as young as 12 has added to the scandals hitting the Roman Catholic Church in Latin America, even as Chile’s bishops asked par­don Tuesday for past cases. 
The allegations against Monsignor Luiz Marques Barbosa — and two other Brazilian priests — have made headlines through­out the world’s most popu­lous Catholic nation and come amid accusations of sexual abuse by priests around the world. 
The scandal erupted when Brazilian television network SBT last month broadcast a tape of Barbosa in bed with a 19­year-old that was widely distributed on the Internet. 
The station said the video was secretly filmed in January 2009 and sent anonymously to the net­work. It was not clear if the 19-year-old, identified as a former altar boy who had worked with Barbosa for four years, had previ­ous sexual relations with the priest. 
SBT reporters went to Barbosa’s house and con-Congressional investiga-Geraldo Martins said. “To the people directly fronted him. Asked if he tors said more than 20 Latin Americans priests affected and to the com-ever abused boys, Barbosa witnesses were called and have faced a cascade of munities in Chile that have said he could only answer some testified Barbosa and accusations of abuse of found reason for scandal such a question “in confes-two other priests in the minors. in some priest, we ask par­sion” and cut off the inter-same northeastern arch-A priest in Chile was don and urge them to tell view. diocese had abused boys charged recently with us of these events,” he 
Brazil’s legislature as young as 12, plying eight cases of sexually said. launched a sex abuse them with money, clothes abusing minors, including On Tuesday, a Mexican investigation, which pro-and other gifts. a girl he had fathered. citizen filed a civil lawsuit duced allegations that Bishop Valerio Breda of Chile’s bishops’ confer-in U.S. federal court in Barbosa molested boys. the Penedo archdiocese in ence issued a statement California against former The elderly priest was the northeastern state of Tuesday apologizing for priest Nicolas Aguilar detained late Sunday. Alagoas said recently that priestly sexual abuse and Rivera and the Roman Prosecutors will now all three priests had been vowing a “total commit-Catholic cardinals of decide whether to file suspended and that the ment” to prevent it in the Mexico City and Los child abuse charges. church was conducting its future. Angeles, claiming they 
Barbosa’s lawyer, Edson own investigation. Breda “There is no place in the moved the priest between Maia, plans to seek his could not be reached priesthood for those who the two nations to hide release from detention, Tuesday. abuse minors and there abuse allegations. An citing the man’s advanced The National Conference are no pretexts whatever advocacy group, Survivors age and arguing he has a of Brazilian Bishops does that can justify this Network of those Abused fixed address and does not not plan to comment on crime,” said Monsignor by Priests, said the plain-pose a flight risk, the the case and all questions Alejandro Goic, president tiff alleges Aguilar Rivera newspaper O Estado de S. should be directed to the of the Episcopal molested him in the mid-Paulo reported Tuesday. local diocese, spokesman Conference. 1990s when he was 12. 


N.Y.C. doormen threaten to go on strike 
The union members work at luxury ing to people who are lonely in the big 
Associated Press 
buildings with grand marble lobbies city. “On their way home, especially at 

NEW YORK — They sign for deliver-and at modest buildings for middle-night, they tell me everything,” Matias ies, hail taxis, fix leaky faucets and, of class tenants. They mop the hallways, said. course, open doors. admit visitors and accept deliveries of Tenants at Matias’ building pay 
Nearly 1 million New York City groceries and Chinese food. Some will more than $6,000 a month for two-apartment dwellers rely on doormen walk a tenant’s dog or assemble Ikea bedroom furnished apartments with and other building workers to make furniture. maid service. Residents include Ace life in a high-rise run smoothly. But Doorman Hector Matias, who works Young, the former “American Idol” 30,000 doormen, concierges, porters at a luxury tower near the Hudson contestant who is appearing in “Hair” and handymen were threatening to go River, said he once helped a pregnant on Broadway, and New York Times on strike at 12:01 a.m. Wednesday, woman whose water broke. best-selling author Suzanne worrying many tenants. “The lady went into labor, and I put Brockmann. 
“What do we do with the trash?” her in the car and buckled her seat Speaking on his cell phone during said Stafanie Howarth, who lives in a belt,” he said with a broad grin as he an intermission, Young said, “Hector brick apartment tower in Greenwich recalled the story. “The baby was and the other guys make sure the Village. “Do we bring it outside? I born minutes later.” right people get in — it’s all about the don’t know.” The job more typically involves talk-right people, my friends.” 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 21, 2010 
Policy 
continued from page 1 
unable to find health care through the school,” Danielle said. 
The stipend provided for grad­uate students is not compatible with the health care plan offered by the University, Haley said. 
A 2008 review cited in the petition noted that the stipend levels at Notre Dame were rela­tively low, and graduate stu­dents then recommended that the program more consistently evaluate these levels and their suitability for the needs of these families. 
In response to the petition, Sterling said the graduate school has increased standard stipends for all incoming and continuing students in addition to lowering the cost of insurance for students by 58 percent from 2008-09 to 2010-11. 
“The University has incremen­tally improved student health care,” Klee said. “But nothing has been done for students’ spouses and children.” 
Sterling said the greatest chal­lenge for change is cost. An endowment of $70 million would be required to cover 75 percent of the health care costs for grad­uate student spouses and chil­dren, he said. 
“For us to provide the same health insurance subsidy for spouses and children that we provide for students would be expensive,” Sterling said. 
Julia Wickes has given birth to two daughters in the five years she has spent in South Bend while her husband pursues his graduate studies at Notre Dame. 
“Sometimes it feels as if we are totally forgotten,” she said. “We feel that we are not even on the radar of the people making plans.” 
The graduate students who signed the petition and partici­pated in the demonstration hope to see more affordable health care for dependents, Wickes said, but other issues related to the graduate family community need to be addressed as well. 
“The graduate family housing is removed from campus and separated from the improve­ments that we see when new buildings go up,” Wickes said. “For me, this is another symbol of how we feel overlooked.” 
International students said they feel the strain of the University’s health care option as well. 
Graduate student Andrew Klein, who is originally from Canada, and his wife Erica paid for the offered plan because she is ineligible for any government services offered by the United States. 
“We were a bit naïve when we came here,” Erica Klein said. “We understood that we would have this extra cost, but we were not really prepared.” 
The Klein’s daughter Brynja is an American citizen and cov­ered by state health care. 
“I do not want my child to be on social services,” Andrew said. “We want to pay for her care.” 
Additional concerns addressed in the petition mention the inad­equate maternal and paternal leave. 
Notre Dame’s policy does not allow any opportunity for pater­nal leave. Klee said the mater­nal leave offered is substandard. 
The petition states: “Notre Dame should match the leaders among [Association of American Universities] institutions and enhance maternity leave, enact paternity leave and provide a part-time enrollment option with partial benefits and access to health insurance.” 
The petition cites several uni­versities, including Dayton, Princeton and the Catholic University of America, that pro­vide more family-friendly poli­cies for their graduate students. 

Volcano 
continued from page 1 
she plans instead to make her way to Switzerland and then somehow be back in France by Sunday, though hotels along the way are almost all booked. 
“This has been the strangest week of my life,” she said. 
Junior Mike Rooney, study­ing in Dublin, also had plans to travel over the weekend, but found out moments before boarding his plane to Prague that all flights had been grounded due to ash in the air. 
“It actually kind of disturbs me that Ryanair decided to cancel our flight at the last possible minute,” Rooney said. “We were seriously in line to get on the plane almost three hours after the eruption.” 
Junior Sean Bennett was traveling with Rooney and said that on the bright side, they were able to get refund­ed for the round-trip flight. 
“Ryanair was actually really helpful,” Bennett said, though also adding it is now doubtful whether his parents will be able to visit him this week, which he said was frustrating. 
“They’ve been planning this trip since December,” he said. 
Katrina Corcoran, another junior in the Angers Program said she had hoped to travel to London. 
“My fiancé … had grown up in London,” she said. “[He] was going to show me around.” 
With cancelled flights, how­ever, Corcoran said she was stranded in Rome. Luckily, she said, she found a place to stay with her friend studying in Rome and was finally able to buy a train ticket to France after waiting in line for hours. 
“After over 24 hours of travel by train I will return to Angers on Friday morning, and with a significantly small­er bank account,” Corcoran said. 
With all the cancelled flights and booked bus or train tick­ets, students said they have had to improvise as they work 
out their broken plans. Brosnihan said she planned on couch surfing — network­ing with people online for places to stay — rather than using a hostel or hotel. 
“[This week] forced me to be more adventurous with my trip, seeing where I can go without any flights and while being broke,” she said. 
Junior Justine Murnane, was operational, she men­tioned that, while airports across Europe had closed down, the French train sys­tem also went on strike in the midst of it all. 
Despite the difficulties, stu­dents nonetheless found a way to remain positive while abroad. 
“I have a pretty ridiculous story for why I didn’t visit some of the cities,” Rooney 
studying in France, said she 

“I have a newfound
also tried unconventional appreciation for ways to make it 
ground travel.” 
back from being stranded in Prague. Justine Murnane 
“The only way junior I could get out 
of Prague was 
an overnight bus to London,” Murnane said. “I ended up hopping off just before we went into the channel and found my way to a nearby train station to get to Paris.” 
Although her train to Paris said in regard to the volcanic eruption. “If our flight had-n’t been can ­celled then I would have been stuck in Prague ... wait ... I guess that would have 

The petition also suggests Notre Dame build a family gath­ering space on campus, create more nursing rooms, expand graduate student child care and provide more organized resources for graduate student families. 
“The petition has received over 300 signatures,” Klee said. “And we are receiving more support every day.” 
Sterling said his office agrees 
time and very moving experi­ence,” she said. 
Murnane said that despite missing out on meeting up with her mom in Paris, she managed to meet three other Notre Dame students and made some “lasting relation-with the students and their fam­ilies on the need for increased support, and he is working to make decisions that will create a meaningful and positive impact. 
“I appreciate the spirit behind the petition and look forward to working with students and stu­dent representatives as we build our community,” Sterling said. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
ships with a few middle ­aged Brits.” 
“I have a newfound appre­ciation for ground travel,” she said. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 
been a good thing.” 
Corcoran also said being stranded in Rome was not all bad, considering she was able to attend Mass in the chapel behind St. Peter’s grave. 
“That was a once-in-a-life­


The Observer 

Business
Wednesday, April 21, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Airlines in talks to join forces 
DALLAS — United Airlines and Continental Airlines are in the early stages of exchanging financial information that could lead to a deal to combine and create the world’s biggest air­line, people briefed on the talks said Tuesday. 
United had been talking with US Airways about a combination, but speculation has increased that United is more interested in the larger Continental. 
The exchange of information between United and Continental was confirmed Tuesday by two people who were briefed on the talks. They spoke on condition of anonymi­ty because they were not authorized to pub­licly discuss the negotiations. 
One person said bankers for United and Continental are discussing how to value the companies in a stock-for-stock swap. 
That person said talks between United and US Airways have stopped for now with no firm date for starting again. However, the person stressed that United hasn’t ruled out a combi­nation with US Airways. 
Mercantile Bank faces narrowed loss 
GRAND RAPIDS, Mich. — Mercantile Bank Corp. on Tuesday said its first-quarter loss narrowed, but bad loans continued to weigh on its results. 
After paying preferred dividends, the bank reported a loss of $3 million, or 35 cents per share, compared with a loss of $4.5 million, or 53 cents per share, in the year-ago period. 
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters, on average, expected a loss of 65 cents per share. 
The better-than-expected results drove the bank’s stock higher. Shares gained 79 cents, or 17 percent, to $5.43 in Tuesday trading, on heavier than normal volume. 
Net interest income, or earnings from deposits, rose 22 percent to $14.3 million, from $11.8 million last year. The bank ended the quarter with $1.42 billion in deposits, down 14 percent from the prior year. 
Non-interest income, or earnings from fees and charges, rose 30 percent to $2.7 million, from $2 million in the 2009 quarter. 
Net charge-offs, or loans written off as uncollectable, rose 9.4 percent to $6.2 million, from $5.6 million a year ago. 
Foreign markets boost Coca-Cola 
Company sees 19 percent profit increase after overseas investments last quarter 
Associated Press  
NEW YORK — The bil­ 
lions Coca-Cola is investing  
overseas paid off in the  
first quarter as the world’s  
largest soft drink maker  
reported its profit climbed  
19 percent thanks to  
emerging markets like  
India and Brazil.  
That helped to offset per­ 
sistent weakness in the  
U.S. and Europe, where  
shoppers skimped on soda,  
water, juices and teas for  
health or economic rea­ 
sons.  
Analysts expected more  
improvement in the  
domestic market and  
results missed expecta­ 
tions, but shares remained  
relatively strong in trading  
Tuesday.  
Worldwide case volume  
rose 3 percent, with inter­ 
national case volume  
growing faster at 5 per­ 
cent. The company, based  
in Atlanta, has courted  
shoppers in international  
markets as their  
economies improve, by  
pitching its drinks as an  
affordable luxury.  
One way for Coca-Cola  
Co. to sell even more over­ 
seas is to add more plants AP  
and also the branded cool-Soft drink giant Coca-Cola saw a first-quarter profit increase of 19 percent with rapid  
ers that get products in growth in its overseas market.  
front of potential con- 
sumers. CEO Muhtar Kent  unit case volume rose 10  fund these investments.”  its marketing campaigns  
said the billions the com- percent over the past three  In the quarter ending  for the Super Bowl and the  
pany has spent in countries  months.  April 2, Coca-Cola earned  Winter Olympics.  
like China, Brazil, and  And Coca-Cola’s growth  $1.61 billion, or 69 cents  Kent said the fountain  
India is paying off.  now hinges on that over- per share, up from earn- business, which serves  
In the first quarter, the  seas expansion. About  ings of $1.35 billion, or 58  restaurants and other  
company added 65,000 of  three-fourths of Coca- cents a share, in the same  retail spots, improved in  
its coolers in Indian retail  Cola’s revenue during the  period last year.  North America during the  
locations and nearly 3,000  most recent quarter came  Revenue rose 5 percent  latter part of the quarter,  
employees to sell its prod- from outside North  to $7.53 billion.  showing people are spend­ 
ucts. India’s case unit vol- America.  Analysts expected earn­ ing money. But that doesn’t  
ume grew 29 percent.  The company has to beat  ings of 75 cents per share  mean they’re returning to  
Turkey’s grew 18 percent.  chief rival PepsiCo Inc. and  on revenue of $7.72 billion,  soft drinks.  
“We see a tremendous  local competitors to these  according to Thomson  “It’s too early to say  
opportunity here in these  new markets, said Edward  Reuters.  whether the category is  
markets,” Kent said  Jones analyst Jack Russo.  Shares fell 85 cents, or  beginning to improve,” he  
Tuesday.  As sales grow in untapped  1.5 percent, to close at  told investors on a confer- 
Consumers in Egypt,  markets, weak sales in  $54.47 Tuesday.  ence call.  
Africa, Tunisia and  North America and Europe  In North America, total  Sales of uncarbonated  
Morocco each drink less  will be less relevant.  case volume — including  drinks such as water,  
than 150 8-ounce servings  “There’s so much oppor­ soft drinks and juices —  juices and teas fell 2 per- 
of soft drinks per year.  tunity it’s almost frighten- fell 2 percent in the quar­ cent in North America, but  
That’s less than half what  ing to think of,” Russo said.  ter. Soft drink volume  grew 8 percent worldwide,  
Americans drink. In coun­ “And really, the U.S. and  declined 1 percent, less  driven by a 12 percent  
tries with comparatively  Europe just become  steep than previous quar­ increase outside North  
low levels of consumption,  sources of cash flow to  ters. The company credited  America.  

Volcano disrupts U.S. manufacturing 
Associated Press These kinds of production delays inventory. “You’ve got to throw a lit-could lead to higher prices for a tle reality on top of the math.” NEW YORK — The strategy of number of everyday items — from The concept of just-in-time manu­keeping inventories lean paid off for cell phones to seat covers, experts facturing has been around for 
U.S. manufacturers during the say. And some say the disruption decades — dating back to the days recession. Just-in-time delivery of from the volcanic ash cloud will lead of the Model T. Ford is credited with parts makes even more sense when companies to make changes in the bringing one form of the concept to budgets are tight. way they do business. the U.S. in the early 1900s. The 
Now that a giant ash cloud from a Bill Carreira, CEO of Carreira method allows manufacturers to use volcano in Iceland is disrupting Consulting LLC, who works with less warehouse space, streamline global air freight, some manufactur-companies to develop and imple-transportation and delivery process­ers are finding that this strategy is ment lean inventory plans, expects es and save money on raw materi­backfiring. Nissan suspended pro-some manufacturers will revert to als. duction at two Japanese auto less-efficient methods. He thinks Today, nearly all major industrial assembly plants Tuesday and BMW that would be an overreaction to a producers in the U.S. use this was forced to idle three plants in once in a lifetime event. method to keep supply in line with Germany because of shortages of “If you have a volcano shutting demand, according to Daniel J. critical parts. Computer maker Dell you down, you’re going to be in Meckstroth, chief economist for the is experiencing delays in getting trouble no matter what you do,” he Manufacturers Alliance, a public notebook computers to European said. A company should have “a bul-policy and economics research customers. let proof safety net,” or emergency organization in Arlington, Va. 
page 8 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, April 21, 2010 Wednesday, April 21, 2010 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Ex-mayor’s wife seeks intervention 

Associated Press 
DETROIT — The wife of ex-Detroit Mayor Kwame Kilpatrick plans to ask a fed­eral judge to intervene in an ongoing restitution case between him and prosecutors, according to a draft of a docu­ment obtained by The Associated Press. 
In the 13-page document, Carlita Kilpatrick seeks to separate assets belonging to her and the couple's three young sons from those of her husband. He is involved in a legal battle with prosecutors over the $1 million in restitu­tion he agreed to pay the city following pleas in 2008 to two criminal cases tied to a text-messaging sex scandal involv­ing a former aide. 

Carlita Kilpatrick's attorney, Bobbie Edmonds, said Monday night in an e-mail to the AP that the document will not be filed until Tuesday in Texas. 
"It is not finalized nor signed by me yet. I will not comment until I have my offi­cial file-marked petition," Edmonds said. 
The draft of a complaint and request for declaratory judg­ment and injunctive relief is addressed to the U.S. District Court in Forth Worth, Texas. The document has not been signed by a judge. 
It names Wayne County and Prosecutor Kym Worthy as defendants. 
The document asks a judge to stop Wayne County and Worthy "from taking any fur­ther action to capture the assets of Plaintiffs to satisfy the restitution of Probationer, Kwame Kilpatrick." 

"Plaintiffs also pray that the court issue a declaratory order holding that the assets of Plaintiffs cannot be used satisfy the restitution of Probationer," the draft reads. 
Kwame Kilpatrick is due in Detroit on Tuesday afternoon before Wayne County Circuit Judge David Groner, who could make a ruling in Kilpatrick's probation viola­tion case. Kilpatrick is charged with violating his probation by not making a full $79,000 restitution payment by a February deadline. 
Blagojevich: Feds are cowards, liars 
Associated Press 
CHICAGO — Former Gov. Rod Blagojevich described the fed­eral prosecutors who have brought racketeering and fraud charges against him as “cow­ards and liars” Tuesday and challenged Chicago’s U.S. attor­ney to meet him face to face in court if he is “man enough.” 
In an extraordinary outburst timed to go live on evening news shows, Blagojevich said prosecutors had treated his wife unfairly and were now “sneaking into court” in an effort to prevent jurors from hearing all of the tapes the FBI made of his telephone conver­sations. 
“They are cowards and they are liars,” Blagojevich said, raising his voice to a full throated shout as he stood before a battery of cameras in front of his lawyer’s South Side office. 
“They know when all those tapes will be played they will show I’ve done nothing wrong and will prove my innocence,” the impeached former governor said. He and his attorneys left without taking questions. 
Addressing U.S. Attorney Patrick J. Fitzgerald through the cameras, Blagojevich said: “I’ll be in court tomorrow and I hope you are man enough to be there, too.” 
A spokesman for the U.S. 
attorney’s office, Randall Samborn, had no comment on Blagojevich’s remarks. 
U.S. District Judge James B. Zagel has scheduled a hearing for Wednesday to discuss motions being filed as prepara­tions for the trial go into their final six weeks. 
Blagojevich is charged with scheming to misuse his power as governor to fill a vacant U.S. Senate seat by selling or trad­ing President Obama’s former seat and illegally pressuring potential donors for campaign contributions. 
His brother, businessman Robert Blagojevich, is charged with helping him. 
Both brothers have pleaded not guilty to all charges and denied any wrongdoing. 
Rod Blagojevich’s attorneys, Sam Adam and Sheldon Sorosky, did not immediately respond to phone messages Tuesday evening seeking com­ment. 
Their client called the news conference promising to make his strongest statement to date about the corruption case against him. During his two minute rant, Blagojevich ripped into prosecutors for saying in a court filing that his wife made thousands of dollars as an employee of convicted fixer Tony Rezko without working for it. He said she was a profes­sional and a “devoted mother.” 


The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 10 Wednesday, April 21, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 

Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnewseditor.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 pcoveney@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Amanda Gray Chris Masoud Megan Doyle Allan Joseph Caitlyn Kalscheur Scene Graphics Jordan Gamble Mary Cecilia Viewpoint Mitsch Patricia Fernandez 
The cold, harsh real world 
Staring down the end of my college career can feel a little like staring down the barrel of a gun. In the years leading into my matriculation at this university, I heard dozens of relatives and friends older and wiser than I describe college as the best four years of their lives. The implication being, of course, that life only goes downhill from here. I’ve had all the fun I 

Jason Coleman 
can have, drank all the beer I can drink and made Man at Large all the friends I can make. That’s where the gun thing comes in. It’s the real world flying at me just faster than the speed of sound, and ending life as I know it. That is indubitably a cause for concern. 
But as graduation gets closer every day, I’ve been considering what college has meant, and how a unique and assuredly peculiar place like Notre Dame can not only eliminate the notion that this is the best four years, but actually enables the next forty to be even better. 
College, to begin, has certainly made me dumber. While it would be easy to attest this to the late nights, little sleep, pitchers of Finny’s long island ice teas and half a semester of “Strategic Management,” it just would-n’t be accurate. Instead, I’ve realized that the talented people I’ve befriend­ed have shown me more about what I don’t know, and likely will never know than I possibly imagined as a freshman four years ago. I’m not even sure that this is a bad thing. On second thought, I probably only feel dumber, given the incredible body of knowledge I’ve been exposed to both inside and outside of the classroom. This new found amaze­ment only makes setting forth into the brave new world an adventure. 
I also feel like I’ve already learned a thing or two about the real world. First, McDonalds coupons are good as gold. Three dollars quarter pounder meals? Cha ching. Second, account­ants, doctors and lawyers must like to party. After all, a lot of my graduating classmates are entering into those fields and they certainly like to party. This gives me great hope for the future that I won’t be pinned down to an exis­tence full of suited professionals and insipid dinner parties. Third, people in the real world are actually people, with feelings. This is something I’ve only discovered as older friends have graduated, and still managed to be fun. Being “college” may only be a state of mind. 
Finally, I’ve been considering what an eclectic group of friends and acquaintances I have had the fortune of making in four years here. If I’ve learned one thing, it is to never under­estimate a Notre Dame student. Whether it’s the kid that mopes around class, and happens to be a concert pianist in his spare time, or the party animal that helps organize service events in her free time, its impossible to judge someone at first sight. If I can meet as equally impressive people out in the real world, I can’t help but be excited about future prospects. 
None of this is to say I wouldn’t enjoy another year or two, but considering all of these together gives me great hope for the next step forward. In the end, college may be the best four years of my life, but they certainly won’t be for lack of competition. 
As my career as an Observer colum­nist winds down, I can’t help but thank everybody that has helped get me this far. First I’d like to thank my two three-year roommates, Brad and Brian, my three other two-year room­mates, Dan, Patrick and Timmy, my friends in the 130 St. Louis crowd, the Latin Compound, Tom Collins, Mitch and Andrew. They have always helped me out with ideas and controversy. Secondly, I’d like to thank my friends at Lafayette (Keep the Ride Alive), my friends and coworkers at North Dinning Hall and the other Observer columnists, copy editors and Viewpoint editors. I’d be remiss if I didn’t thank my equally stunning and clever girl­friend, Lauren, for proofreading most of my columns. I also need to thank my mom and dad, as well as my grandma Jean and grandpa John for supporting me in all of my various endeavors over the past 22 years. And lastly, I’d like to thank you, all of the readers who have managed to stomach at least one of my columns over the past two years. 
Jason Coleman is a senior account­ing major. He can be contacted at coleman.70@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

OBSERVER POLL QUOTE OF THE DAY 
What are your plans for the summer? 
Service Trip Internship 

“Imagination is more importantthan knowledge.” 

Hanging with family and friends Going abroad 
Albert Einstein 

Haven’t decided yet/Other 
German physicist 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, April 21, 2010 page 11 
Compulsory discrimination against ‘Homosexuals and Sex Perverts,’ 1935-1969 
“Have American homosexuals ever expe­rienced the types of legal discrimination facing women or racial minorities?” The answer is a resounding “Yes!” even if we ignore the issues of marriage and military service. Between 1935 and 1969, 
Gail Bederman 
federal state and local governments Guest went to previously 

Columnist 
unknown lengths to find, expose and rid the nation of what authorities called “sex perverts.” 
Today, these policies are mostly forgot­ten. Yet if we forget them, we cannot understand why LGBT Americans began to organize for gay and lesbian civil rights in the 1950s and 1960s. This column discuss­es only four of the era’s many types of com­pulsory governmental discrimination against LGBT Americans. 
1. Arrests for Disorderly Conduct, Loitering, Cross Dressing and Private Sexual Behavior. Until 1880, laws criminal­izing voluntary sodomy were rarely enforced. Between 1880 and 1920 all states with large cities, except Texas, made oral sex a felony, too. Arrests increased. Across the nation, police began arresting visibly gay men and women for cross dressing, disorderly conduct or “loitering with lewd intent.” Between 1946 and 1967, hundreds of LGBT persons were arrested each year for sodomy or attempted sodomy, and thousands for lesser offences like “cruising,” propositioning an undercov­er policeman or woman, wearing sex-inap­propriate clothing and being present in a gay or lesbian bar during a raid. Newspapers routinely printed the names of those arrested, who frequently lost their jobs as a result. 
2. 
Liquor Authorities Targeted Gay and Lesbian Bars. After Prohibition, control of alcohol was returned to the states. To regu­late bars, saloons and restaurants, states and localities issued liquor licenses, revok­ing them for establishments considered dis­orderly. Bars that regularly served “prosti­tutes or homosexuals” were, by definition, “disorderly.” From California to New York, gay bars were regularly raided and closed. 

These state and local laws remained in effect for decades. In 1967, the New York Court of Appeals overturned the state law, ruling that allowing gay persons to congre­gate, dance and or kiss did not render a bar intrinsically “disorderly.” In the same year, however, the Florida courts upheld Miami’s ordinance prohibiting liquor licensees to “knowingly sell to, serve to or allow consumption of alcoholic beverages by a homosexual person, lesbian or pervert … or to knowingly allow two or more per­sons who are homosexuals, lesbians or perverts to remain in his place of busi­ness.” Continued raids on New York’s gay bars catalyzed the famous 1969 “Stonewall Riots,” widely recognized as the opening salvo of 1970s Gay Liberation. 

3. 
Immigration, Deportation, Citizenship: Although immigration law had long exclud­ed people convicted of “crimes of moral turpitude,” in 1917, the Public Health Service (PHS) began refusing entry to “sex­ual perverts” or people with “abnormal impulses.” In 1952, the Immigration and 


LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Not so friendly 
The organizers of the so-called “Family-Friendly Petition” have presented ratio­nales for their movement that rely on inadequate theological paradigms. Married graduate students, they seem to believe, represent adults who epitomize Catholic values. Thus Peter Campbell’s observation that students who come home to children are “a perfect symbol of the kind of values that the University wants to instill in its undergrads” (“Graduate students to file petition,” April 16). Really? Shouldn’t a Catholic universi­ty want its undergraduates to become adults who can creatively and critically challenge injustice and live compassion­ate and moral lives regardless of their marital status? 
Jamie O’Hare says that “at a Catholic institution many [married graduate stu­dents] will be bearing children, or they’re not following Church teaching. I think it fits with Notre Dame’s Catholic mission to not make following Church teaching a burden.” In other words, it’s the responsi­bility of a Catholic school to take care of its good Catholics. This proposition, in itself, is frightening; for it is the responsi­bility of any institution to care for its employees and students without requiring them to meet any criteria other than the specific criteria of their jobs. In the case of graduate students, that means meeting academic standards, not living according to Catholic teaching. Moreover, though, I find terribly insulting the implication that married students, by virtue of their mari­tal and parental status, are superior Catholics. Campbell describes himself and his peers as “devout Catholics doing what the Catholicism tells them to do: Have children.” Let me assure Campbell that Catholic teaching exhorts so much more, such as ministering to the lonely, working for economic justice and respecting natu­ral resources. Do we expect the University’s financial support in following all of these teachings, as well? 
For recruiting reasons, Notre Dame should offer packages that make gradu­ate student life viable for its students, both married and single. The petitioners, sadly, rely on insidious rhetoric that goes beyond simple pragmatic concerns and promotes a social hierarchy in which peo­ple with children are seen as holier and worthier of support than those without. 
Emily Stetler 
graduate student off-campus April 20 
Naturalization Act of 1952 explicitly for­bade to those with “psychopathic personal­ity” — which the PHS assured Congress included “homosexuality or sexual perver­sion” — from entering the country, or becoming citizens. In 1964, after the Supreme Court ruled the term “psycho­pathic personality” too vague, Congress passed a new law excluding “sexual deviants.” In 1967, the Supreme Court affirmed the deportation of an otherwise law-abiding Canadian bisexual man who, according to psychologists, showed no signs of psychopathology. 
These policies were repealed only in response to the gay rights movement. In 1976, the INS announced that it would no longer deny citizenship to “practicing sexu­al deviates.” Yet, paradoxically, the INS continued to actively refuse gays and les­bians entry at the border until 1980, when it adopted a “don’t ask, don’t tell” policy. Finally, in 1990, Congress repealed the “sexual deviancy” exclusion. 
4. U.S. Civil Service Fires All Homosexuals. Between 1947 and 1950, the Truman administration, responding to Republican accusations that the federal civil service was a hotbed of “sex perver­sion,” opened 192 investigations; most of the accused lost their posts. The investiga­tions continued. In 1953, shortly after tak­ing office, Eisenhower issued Executive Order 10450, requiring each federal department and agency to find and fire all current and potential employees who met listed criteria, including disloyalty, drug addiction and “sexual perversion.” Thousands of gay and lesbian civil servants were fired or forced to resign, well into the 1960s. 
Ex-civil servants fired or suspected to be gay were placed on a central list of “securi­ty risks” which precluded government employment and often also work in the pri­vate sector. The FBI acted as a clearing­house, consolidating its own investigations with those of the armed forces and local police. The Bureau also investigated homo­sexuals in the private sector, their associ­ates and — increasingly — the new “homophile” civil rights groups like the Mattachine Society of Washington, founded by Dr. Franklin Kameny, an astronomer fired from the Army Map Service for being gay. 
Activists like Kameny founded the gay rights movements of the 1950s through 1960s in order to oppose this unprecedent­ed campaign against America’s sexual minorities. Were these policies unjust? Perhaps only theologians and philosophers can answer such questions. Yet those claim that LGBT Americans have never faced widespread discrimination would do well to consider the years between 1935 through 1969, and learn a lesson from history. 
Gail Bederman, an associate professor of history, Gender Studies, and American Studies, recommends the Encyclopedia of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgendered History in America, available online through the Hesburgh Library, for more information on scholarship in this area. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Bookstore Officiating 
First, I’d like to give major thanks to all who facilitate Bookstore Basketball, even to an extent those I’m expressing my concern about in this article. And while I’ll admit that it’s very hard to criticize volunteer offi­cials in a charity basketball tourna­ment, I’d like to make some observa­tions. First, it’s obvious that officials are needed to have a final determina­tion, otherwise games would become even more heated than they are. And while such tournaments should allow for more contact, there has to be a limit to what is allowed and a limit that remains consistent throughout the game. 
My main concern is the disparity in officiating from ref to ref and court to court. While some officials make a conscience effort to follow the play up and down the court and be as consis­tent as possible, others lackadaisically try to officiate from the backcourt on a frontcourt possession and have an inconsistent call selection. As an example, I have seen minor hand checks called and hard contact to the basket not called. The biggest problem with this is that the quality of the game overall is degraded and contact becomes worse throughout the game. If a player can get away with holding and shoving then he thinks he can get away with even greater and some­times maliciously intended contact. So, I propose some simple suggestions. 
First, consider providing some non-monetary incentive for the officials to work hard. This could be recognizing top officials and offering those officials gift certificates to campus outlets. Secondly, bring the officials all togeth­er even 15 minutes or a half hour before the games are to begin to dis­cuss game management like call selection and how to handle different game situations. Lastly, give officials more authority to penalize players who are insubordinate during their games; this can cut out most of the bickering and bantering by players during the game. Thanks for consider­ing these suggestions and keep doing a great job Bookstore Commissioners. I look forward to watching the Sweet 16. 
Michael Jackson 
sophomore Duncan Hall April 20 

What do you want to do before you die? 
This is the question posed by the four guys of MTV’s “The Buried Life” (see Courtney near impossible (No. 113: witness an Irish national championship — Coach Kelly, make Cox’s “The Buried Life Uncovered,” Feb. 25), who have a list of 100 things they want to do this happen!). Life is short and our time at Notre Dame even shorter. Figure out what you before they die. Inspired by a friend, I made a similar list two years ago and have since really want in life, both the big and little things. Write it down. Do it. Live it. As for me, No. accomplished 14 of an ever-growing 118 goals. I won’t get overly preachy with how much 43: Publish a Viewpoint article is a check. I’ve learned about myself or how life is short and we need to take advantage of the time we have, but I will say, it’s been fun. So I challenge you to make your own — call it a buck-Kathleen McDonald et list, life goals, 100 things you want to do before you die, whatever. They can be silly (No. senior 
10: milk a cow), random (No. 64: crash a party), simple (No. 76: compliment a stranger), off campus meaningful (No. 30: fall in love), serious (No. 89: volunteer in a third world country), or April 20 

The Observer 

Scene
page 12 Wednesday, April 21, 2010 

In 1997, Demi Moore boldly shaved her head for her role as tough Navy SEAL trainee Jordan O’Neil for the movie “G.I. Jane.” The movie is the fictional story of the first female to undergo Navy SEAL training and chronicles O’Neil’s struggles against sexism, physical challenges and politics. Everyone expects her to fail, as men have a 60­percent dropout rate in the rigorous program, but Jordan is determined to prove everyone wrong. Moore’s bare-headed look for the movie was almost as daring as her character’s actions, and just as Jordan succeeded, so too did Moore in pulling off her new ‘do. She proved a “tough” look can also be a feminine one. 
If you want to sport a shaved head with style and grace, look no further than Natalie Portman as an example. After cutting off all her hair for her role in “V for Vendetta,” Portman managed to not only get through red carpets and awards season without wearing any wigs, but also looked more beautiful than ever, landing on the top of many best-dressed lists. With her hair grown out to a pixie cut, she drew many compar­isons to Audrey Hepburn at the Golden Globes in 2006. Portman’s lack of locks was so inspiring to some that there is even a band called “Natalie Portman’s Shaved Head.” 

Irish singer/songwriter Sinéad O’Connor is known for three things: “Nothing Compares 2 U,” her super-short buzzcut and making political statements. On Saturday Night Live in 1992, she tore a picture of Pope John Paul II in half to criticize the Catholic Church amidst a sexual abuse scandal. She has donned her bald look for a long time, and what began as a feminist statement against the traditional view of women has become habit. The Guardian has quoted O’Connor saying, “I don’t feel like me unless I have my hair shaved. So even when I’m an old lady, I’m going to have it.” 
Her white-blond hair made Sofia Vassilieva the perfect choice for the title role in “Eloise” TV movies and as Patricia Arquette’s daughter in the CBS series “Medium.” She’s since grown her hair out into a sweet pixie cut, but in the 2009 drama “My Sister’s Keeper,” Vassilieva shaved off her goldielocks for her role as Kate Fitzgerald, a teenage leukemia patient. (Cameron Diaz also appears bald for a portion of the movie, but she was only in a skullcap.) Dakota Fanning was originally slated for Vassilieva’s part, although she bolted when she found out she’d have to shave her hair — but Vassilieva was game for the change. 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH l Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Wednesday, April 21, 2010 page 13 


By MARISSA FROBES 
Scene Writer 
English singer/songwriter Kate Nash’s sophomore album “My Best Friend Is You” dropped Tuesday in the U.S. An established starlet in the United Kingdom, Nash is sig­nificantly less popular in America. But she attracts attention from a young female demographic, and with her blatant feminist mes­sages, she preaches about graphic, yet oddly relatable moments in the life of a 20-something woman. 
Her first single, “Foundations,” debuted in June 2007 and reached the No. 2 spot on the UK Singles Chart. “Made of Bricks,” her first full album, premiered that August, and eventually rose to No. 1 on the UK charts. Several of her other singles including “Mouthwash” and “Pumpkin Soup” became top­40 singles in the United Kingdom in 2007 and 2008, but received limited success 
in the U.S. and Canada. 
A number of the same cliché themes from “Made of Bricks” carry over into “My Best Friend Of You” including friendship, fem­inism and being misunderstood. A few of the 
deliverances on the new album, though, are shock­ingly more vehement than any indignant ranting Kate Nash has done in the past. 
One track, “Mansion Song” is seriously abrasive in an attempt to move women to become more than “another undignified product of society.” Delivered for the most part in slam poetry form, the tune alludes to rape, stripping and drug-use situations that women occasionally fall into when they accept societal stereotypes. It’s scary upon the first listen, but strangely strong and empowering when heard for a second time. 
“I Just Love You More” and “I’ve Got A Secret” are two tracks with less talking and more passion. The former track repeats the four same lines, alternating lyrics with shrieks and screams and leaving Nash breathless at the finish. The latter psychedelically alludes to a secret that is never told, cleverly skated around by a few more femi­nist quips. 
Besides these few audibly darker songs, the rest of the album sounds a lot more like the Nash that girls know and love. Her first single “Doo-Wah-Doo,” recently released on iTunes, describes the archetypal mean girl who over­shadows Nash as they vie for the attention of men. Set to a cheerful melody rife with handclaps and surf guitar riffs, Nash shows her gained maturity in the past few years with her decision to “just read a book instead.” 
Opening track “Paris” and the following “Kiss That Grrrl” are two of the most light and upbeat on the album. “Kiss That Grrrl” is reminiscent of Motown tunes of Diana Ross & The Supremes, but hilariously asserts to a fictional man “Kiss that girl and … I will think up a thousand ways I could hurt you.” 
One may listen to the album and assume that a former boyfriend has viciously hurt this girl, with songs like “I Hate Seagulls” devot­ed completely to complaining or “Later On” which repeats “crying my stupid eyes out” more than 10 times. However, Nash has been in a steady relationship with Ryan 
Jarman, a 

member of the English Indie rock band The Cribs, since 2007. 
Therefore, Nash’s album is more than an autobio­gra phica l form of catharsis. A 
relevant uni­versality pervades the messages of the songs, encouraging girls to think highly of themselves, but still admitting to the self-deprecation every female acts on. 
Her lyrics, though often times explicit, “don’t encourage sexuali­ty and sexualization in young kids” as do the lyrics of girl groups like The Pussycat Dolls today, Nash said in an interview with The Guardian. Instead she said “it’s really important to be a strong role model.” 
Any girl listening to this album will feel a sense of pride in their womanhood. Guys might want to blur out the words to Nash’s music, and hone in on the catchy melodies that are sure to get stuck in their heads. She sings “you’ll never listen to me” in the album’s opener, but you surely will once you pick out your favorite Nash jams from “My Best Friend Is You.” 
Check out the music video for her first single “Doo-Wah-Doo.” The mis en scène of the love story is portrayed on an airplane in the late 1950s, dancing stewards and drinking pilots included! 
Contact Marissa Frobes at mfrobes@nd.edu 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH l Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, April 21, 2010 
MLB 

Rockies leader found dead 
Associated Press 
DENVER — Colorado Rockies president Keli McGregor, who parlayed a lifelong love of sports into a short stint in the NFL before embarking on a career in the baseball business, was found dead in his hotel room in Salt Lake City on Tuesday. 
Detective Rick Wall said two of McGregor’s associates couldn’t get in touch with him and that someone entered his room at The Grand America Hotel in downtown Salt Lake City and found the 48-year-old McGregor unconscious Tuesday morning. 
Police were called about 9 
a.m. MDT and emergency work­ers arrived on the scene and were unable to revive him. 
“There are no signs of foul play. … Based on the initial investigation (police and fire offi­cials) did not see anything suspi­cious,” Wall said. “There is noth­ing suspicious. At this point it would look like it was some sort of a natural cause or something along those lines.” 
Wall said the investigation has been turned over to the medical examiner’s office, which will determine the cause and time of death. 
The Rockies said McGregor was on a business trip with team chairman and CEO Charlie Monfort and executive vice pres­ident Greg Feasel. 
“Words cannot describe the level of shock and disbelief that we all are feeling this morning at the loss of Keli,” Charlie Monfort said in a statement. “Our thoughts, our prayers are with Lori and the entire family as we all try to cope and under­stand how such a tragic loss could occur with such a wonder­ful man.” 
McGregor is survived by his wife, Lori, three daughters and a son. 
His voice cracking, manager Jim Tracy said before the Rockies’ game at Washington on Tuesday night that he struggled with what to tell his team about McGregor’s death. 
“I’m stunned. I can’t believe what’s happened,” Tracy said. “I told the players in the club­house: ‘I want to understand this, but I don’t.’ I don’t know what to say. I don’t understand it. 
“We said a little prayer for him. The prayers are as much for him as for Lori and for those four children.” 
The clubhouse was closed before the game. 
“I guess shock is the word that describes it,” first baseman Todd Helton said as he walked out on the field. “Great man. I’ve known him 15 years. Last per­son you think you’d be getting that call about. 
“He kept himself in great 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Big Ten expansion hot topic at BCS meetings 
“I expect that Jim, who I
Associated Press 
have known for many, many 
SCOTTSDALE, Ariz. — Since years and trust implicitly, that Jim Delany put the college he’ll do what he said he’s football world on notice by going to do,” Beebe said. “If announcing the Big Ten would and when the time comes that explore the possibility of they’re going to do anything— expansion, speculation about and if that includes any of the which schools might be chang-institutions in the Big 12—he’ll ing leagues has been rampant. let me know first.” 
Delany, the leader of the The Chicago Tribune report-most lucrative conference in ed last weekend the Big Ten college sports, has remained was discussing accelerating its mostly mum on the league’s timetable for a decision on plans since his December expansion. statement. “My understanding is that 
On Wednesday, Delany plans his timetable hasn’t changed, to take questions from in spite of the media specula­reporters at a swanky Arizona tion that there was activity resort hotel where college going on,” Beebe said. football’s power brokers are The other schools that have gathered this week for Bowl been talked about as possible Championship Series meet-Big Ten targets are mostly in ings. the Big East. Pittsburgh, 
Maybe he’ll provide some Rutgers and Syracuse all fit insight into where the Big Ten the profile athletically and stands in a process that he ini-academically. tially said would take 12 to 18 Rutgers and Syracuse, in months. Or theory, could maybe not. help the Big 
There’s lit-“My understanding is Ten grab 
tle doubt the that his timetable hasn’t hold of the topic of New York 
changed in spite of the
expansion— television 
media speculation that
the Pac-10 market. has also said there was activity For the Big it is looking East, which 
going on.
into adding withstood schools—will losing Miami, be discussed, Dan Beebe Boston at least infor-commissioner College and mally, among Big 12 Virginia Tech shape, worked hard. He really loved this team, loved his family even more,” Helton said. “We went duck hunting together, pumped up together, stayed up playing cards, golfed several times in the offseason.” 


Rockies hitting coach Don Baylor, who was managing the club when McGregor came on board, said he was a passionate person who always put the organization first. 
“He was a football guy. He did-n’t understand what a 6-4-3 was or what an ERA was. It was a big learning experience for him,” Baylor said. “What a ris­ing star this guy would have been because he really did so much for this organization. Every time you talked to him it was about the Rockies, not about himself, always about improving the club, on the field. He’s really going to be missed. 
“Forty-eight years old. You’re still asking, ‘Why?”’ 
McGregor’s loss shook the sports communities across Colorado, where he was a multi-sport athlete at Lakewood High School, starred as a tight end at Colorado State and was drafted by the Denver Broncos before going into coaching and then embarking on a career in sports administration, joining the Rockies in 1993. 
“He had only friends in the industry, and this is a terrible loss for the game,” Bob DuPuy, baseball’s chief operating officer told the AP. “Keli has been instrumental in the success of the Rockies over the entire time he was with them because of his guidance and leadership in every aspect of the organiza­tion.” 
Commissioner Bud Selig called McGregor “one of our game’s rising young stars,” and new union head Michael Weiner sent his condolences to McGregor’s family and the Rockies. 
McGregor was in his 17th sea­son with the Rockies, his ninth as club president. He began his career with the club in October 1993 as senior director of opera­tions. He was promoted to senior vice president in 1996 and exec­utive vice president in 1998. 
McGregor was a four-year starter at Colorado State, where he went from freshman walk-on to second-team All-American tight end in 1984. An undersized halfback when he arrived on campus, McGregor had a growth spurt before his sophomore sea­son and at 6-foot-6 and 250 pounds, he went on to become an All-Western Athletic Conference tight end from 1982­84. 
He set a single-season school record with 69 catches in 1983, a mark that stood for 10 years. 
McGregor was selected by Denver in the fourth round of the 1985 NFL draft and played for the Broncos, Colts and Seahawks during his brief pro career. 
McGregor was “a wonderful person and a highly respected professional whose loss will be felt throughout the entire Denver community,” Broncos chief operating officer Joe Ellis said. 
McGregor joined the Rockies after a four-year stint as an associate athletic director at the University of Arkansas. He also was an assistant football coach for two years at the University of Florida from 1988-89, where he earned his Master’s degree in education with an emphasis on athletic administration. 
McGregor, who was born in Primgahr, Iowa, was voted to Colorado State’s all-century team in 1992 and was named to the CSU Hall of Fame in 1996. 
the commis­sioners of the 11 major conferences and Notre Dame athletic director Jack Swarbrick over the next few days. 
If the Big Ten decides to grow from its current 11 members in an effort to expand the reach of its lucra­tive television network and create even more revenue with a conference champi­onship game, it could create a massive domino effect across college football. 
That’s why everyone from fans to commissioners is curi­ous—maybe even anxious—to find out what the Big Ten will do. 
Add one team? Maybe three? How about five to become a 16-team confer­ence? 
But Big 12 commissioner Dan Beebe said Tuesday he does not expect to hear any­thing definitive during these meetings, which run through Thursday. 
Several Big 12 schools have been speculated to be on the Big Ten’s most wanted list, including Texas, Nebraska and Missouri. 
to the 
Atlantic Coast Conference in the last round of conference realign­ment, losing even one team would sting. Losing two or more members could make it difficult for Big East football to survive. 
And then there is Notre Dame. The Big Ten has tried unsuccessfully before to per­suade the Fighting Irish to give up their football independ­ence. Swarbrick has said stay­ing independent is Notre Dame’s No. 1 priority. 
But the person who matters most in what has become col­lege football’s great offseason soap opera is Delany. 
On a typically warm and sunny Tuesday in the desert, he was relaxing with a couple of other college football big shots in the garden of the Royal Palms Resort and Spa before lunch and several hours of meetings. 
He exchanged a couple pleasantries with reporters, but quickly ended the conver­sation before it started with a promise to see them tomor­row. 
So stay tuned. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Graduation week/Football Season Sublet Irish Row 2bd Apt Contact UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do 
is coming - Make reservation now Sam Krause- skrause1@nd.edu, not go it alone. Notre Dame hasFOR RENT with Georgia Peach Bed and Rent Negotiable WANTED PERSONAL many resources in place to assist 
Breakfast with four bedroom. (We ——————————————— you. If you or someone you love New upscale apts. Less than 1 mil will rent the house). We are located Darling 2 bedroom, 2 bathroom cot-ND &amp; CONSIDERING ADOPTION? ND needs confidential support or assis­from ND, next to Taco Bell on SR eight miles from Notre Dame. tage with hard wood floors, front ALUMS hoping to adopt. Please tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 
933. 2-story, 8 unit bldg. Each has We are registered on the Niles porch and patio, close to Eddy St. SMC Students - campus job - text-visit our website 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For 2bd/2bath. GE appliances w/dish-Chamber of Commerce web site. Commons. book buyer during finals week -http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro-more information, visit ND's web washer. Mstr. bdrm w/walkin closet. chamber@nilesmi.com. For more file.net. site: No water/sewer bill. $1000/mo info, call (269)687-8499. 1334 Corby Blvd, available for sum-$10+/hour-dormbooks.com ——————————————— http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu starting. ——————————————— mer months short term lease. ———————————————-IIf you or someone you care about ——————————————— Call Holiday Inn Express @ 968-House 3 bed, 3 bath, new Need car. has been sexually assaulted, we Rumor: Free drinks at Mulligan’s 8080 &amp; leave msg. rehab/clean, so close to ND you May, June, July $600 per month. Selling yours before going home? can help. For more information, visit tonight for any juniors with an 8 ——————————————— can see campus from the yard! Notre Dame's website: a.m. physics test Thursday. C’mon, gradrentals.viewwork.com Email alexrock@rock.com! Call 574-309.6961. Tricia 574-383-2549. http.csap.nd.edu your grades don’t really matter. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ———————————————-——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Wednesday, April 21, 2010 page 15 
Men’s Division I Baseball Coaches’ Poll 
team previous 
1 Arizona State 1 2 Texas 4 3 Georgia Tech 5 4 Virginia 3 5 Louisiana State 6 6 UCLA 2 7 Arkanas 8 8 Coastal Carolina 10 9 Florida State 7 10 South Carolina 13 11 Florida 9 12 Texas Christian 11 13 Louisville 12 14 Miami (Fla.) 15 15 Vanderbilt 19 16 Kansas State 20 17 Arizona 21 18 Oklahoma 14 19 Mississippi 18 20 Clemson 16 21 Cal State-Fullerton 24 22 Oregon State 17 23 California NR 24 Southeastern La. 23 25 Oregon NR 
Men’s Division I Tennis ITA Poll 
team previous 
1 Virginia 1 
2 Tennessee 2 
3 Texas 3 
4 Ohio State 5 
5 Southern California 4 
6 Florida 6 
7 Stanford 7 
8 UCLA 12 
9 Baylor 11 
10 Texas A&M 9 
11 Georgia 10 
12 Kentucky 8 
13 Texas Tech 16 
14 Illinois 13 
15 Louisville 15 
16 California 13 
17 Duke 14 
18 North Carolina 19 
19 Mississippi 18 
20 Virginia Tech 21 
21 Oklahoma 20 
22 Pepperdine 22 
23 Wake Forest 23 
24 Georgia Tech NR 
25 Washington 24 


around the dial 
NBA Basketball Bobcats at Magic 7 p.m., TNT 
Spurs at Mavericks 
9:30 p.m., TNT 

NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Singler decides to stay for senior season 
Associated Press 

DURHAM, N.C. — In the end, Kyle Singler made it sound simple. The Duke star wanted one more year of being a college student more than making an early jump to the NBA. 
“I couldn’t have gone wrong with either decision,” Singler said Tuesday. “With that, the pressure was lighter. Making my decision to come back to school, I feel really good about it.” 
Singler, the most out­standing player at the Final Four in Duke’s run to a fourth national champi­onship, said he tried to be open-minded about the decision, even imagining what life would be like if he stayed or if he left for the NBA. But the 6-foot-8 junior settled over the weekend on returning to savor the opportunity that comes with being a senior leader on a team aiming to defend its title. 
In a news conference, coach Mike Krzyzewski said Singler kept telling him and his parents three things while weighing the decision. 
“The No. 1 thing was — and he said this to his mom more than he did to me — he said, ‘I love Duke. I love going to school here,”‘ Krzyzewski said. “The sec­ond thing was, ‘I can get better. I want to be the best player when I do make that step and I think that I can improve here to do that.’ 
IN BRIEF 

Favre, Childress in contact, 
but next year still in limbo 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. — The latest word from Brett Favre was about lawn care. 
So much for deciding about next sea­son. 
The Minnesota Vikings are still wait­ing for an announcement from the quar­terback about whether he will be back, though coach Brad Childress has been in regular communication with him. 
Childress said he spoke with Favre on Monday, when the 40-year-old grandfa­ther told him he was “spraying weeds” at his home in Mississippi. 
“I didn’t ask if was DDT, RID, or what­ever they spray weeds with down there,” Childress quipped. “He seems to be doing well.” 
Childress added that he followed up their conversation by sending Favre a cellphone picture of the practice fields outside Vikings headquarters to show off the recent sunny weather in Minnesota. 
“The third thing ... he said, ‘I don’t want to miss out on the things that will happen to me as a senior.”‘ 
Krzyzewski said he and his staff reached out to about half the NBA teams to gauge where Singler might be drafted, learning that Singler would likely have been a middle to late first-round pick. 
“Everybody’s positive about Kyle,” he said. “Kyle will be a pro. He’ll be a great player for us next year. My feeling is when he goes to the NBA, he should be an outstanding player and not just be in the NBA.” 
Singler averaged nearly 18 points and seven rebounds for Duke (35-5), which edged Butler 61-59 in Indianapolis for the national title. As part of the high-scoring “Big Three” along with graduating senior Jon Scheyer and junior Nolan Smith, Singler had 17 games at least 20 points to go with seven double-doubles. 
Singler was also most valuable player of the Atlantic Coast Conference tournament, helping Duke win it for the ninth time in 12 seasons. 
“Overall, I just had a great time,” Singler said. “Just being a part of that team helped me as a basketball player because you’re with guys that you enjoy being around it and you find if you surround yourself with good people, good things will happen.” 
Guillen unconcerned about 
fan reaction over slow start 
CHICAGO — In typically colorful fashion, Ozzie Guillen brushed off criti­cism Tuesday about his team’s slow start. 
Before a game against the Tampa Bay Rays, the outspoken Chicago White Sox manager said he isn’t concerned by what most others think of him. 
“There is one person I don’t want to be angry at me and her name is Ibis Cardenas Guillen because if she gets angry at me, it’s going to cost me a lot of money. My wife. Everybody else, I could care less if they like me or not,” Guillen said. 
Guillen has been the subject of news­paper columns and local sports radio chatter following Chicago’s 2-5 road trip. The White Sox began the day 4-9 and in last place in the AL Central, five games behind first-place Minnesota. 
With the exception of opening day, the White Sox have been drawing small crowds to U.S. Cellular Field. 
Saints and Vikings to open 
NFL season in New Orleans 
NEW YORK — The Super Bowl cham­pion New Orleans Saints will get an early test when they host the Minnesota Vikings in the NFL season opener, a rematch of their thrilling NFC champi­onship game decided in overtime. 
That nationally televised game will be Thursday night, Sept. 9. New Orleans won its first conference title by beating Minnesota 31-28 on a 40-yard field goal by Garrett Hartley 4:45 into overtime. The Saints went on to defeat the Indianapolis Colts 31-17 in the Super Bowl. 
“I can’t imagine it being anymore charged than the last time we were down there,” Vikings coach Brad Childress said Tuesday night. “That’s always a great, hostile environment to play in.” 
The Saints also will play at Dallas on Thanksgiving Day; the Cowboys handed New Orleans its first defeat after 13 vic­tories last season. 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, April 21, 2010 
NFL 

Jets sign veteran DE Taylor 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Booed and despised by Jets fans for years, Jason Taylor is now on their side. 
The former Miami Dolphins linebacker agreed to terms with the AFC East-rival New York Jets on a contract Tuesday, bolstering a defense that ranked No 1 in the league last year. 
“My expectation is that Jason will be a Jet tomorrow,” coach Rex Ryan said during a confer­ence call. “We feel great about that.” 
The 2006 NFL Defensive Player of the Year visited the Jets two weeks ago but left without a deal, pondering whether to sign with New York or wait to see if Miami would re-sign him after the draft. After vacationing in Costa Rica last weekend, Taylor decided to go with Ryan and the Jets. 
“Clearly, this is one of the pre­mier players in the game, one of the premier pass rushers in the game,” Ryan said. “We expect Jason to play a bunch and be a major contributor to our defense.” 
The deal was first reported by ESPN.com and the Miami Herald. The cable network’s website said it is for two years. Because of the league’s “Final Eight” restric­tions, the Jets could only pay Taylor only $1.75 million in base salary this season — the amount unrestricted free agent kicker Jay Feely signed for with Arizona. 
Taylor, the NFL’s active sacks leader who’ll turn 36 in September, joins a team he has long considered an enemy. And, the feeling was mutual among Jets fans. 
Long a part of one of the NFL’s most intense rivalries on the field, Taylor has had a contentious relationship with fans in New York, calling them ignorant and classless and saying their “J-E-T­S!” chant was “dumb.” 
Now, he’ll try to endear himself to those same fans, the way Brett Favre did in Minnesota or Donovan McNabb hopes to do in Washington. A few early season sacks might do the trick for Taylor. 
“I look at it this way: What was the kind of impact Roger Clemens had?” Ryan said. “He was a Red Sox and went over to the Yankees and helped out there. I kind of look at Johnny Damon with the same type of deal. 
“So, if Jason could have the same impact on the Jets as those players had on the Yankees and we win a championship, I think we’ll all be happy.” 
Either way, it’s the latest head-line-grabbing acquisition by the Jets, who have clear intentions of making a Super Bowl run this season after losing in the AFC championship game to Indianapolis in January. 
Already loaded with story lines for its appearance on HBO’s “Hard Knocks” during training camp this summer, New York has also signed running back LaDainian Tomlinson and safety Brodney Pool, and traded for wide receiver Santonio Holmes and cornerback Antonio Cromartie. 
The former “Dancing With the Stars” contestant — he finished runner-up to Kristi Yamaguchi in 2008 — recently expressed a desire to remain with the Dolphins. But, Miami general manager Jeff Ireland said the team would wait until after the draft before deciding whether to make an offer. 
A scheduled meeting with Taylor and Dolphins officials was also reportedly canceled recently as Ryan and the Jets aggressively pursued him. 
Taylor has 127 1/2 career sacks and provides the Jets with a proven pass rusher who should fit right into Ryan’s aggressive 3­4 defensive scheme as a hybrid linebacker-defensive end. 
Ryan also said his addition will have no effect on the Jets’ approach to having the 29th overall pick in the draft Thursday night. 
“We’re in an ideal situation,” Ryan said. “We’re going into the draft where we can take the best player.” 
Several Jets players met Taylor during his visit to the team’s facil­ity in Florham Park, N.J., on April 8, and said they’d welcome him if he signed. 
NFL 

Rams: Light interest in top pick 
time draft. He said it would be 
Associated Press 
“weird” spacing picks over 

ST. LOUIS — Two days three days, but added, “Who ahead of the draft, St. Louis cares what we think as long Rams general manager Billy as TV’s happy with it?” Devaney said leaguewide He wasn’t sure if there’d be interest in acquiring the first a market for the first pick of pick has been light. the second round that begins 
Predictably, he refused to tip the second day, or whether his hand whether the Rams the time gap would serve to stand pat. create interest. 
Coach Steve Spagnuolo even “Teams are so prepared that passed the buck right back to if we started the second round Devaney at a news conference immediately, teams are going Tuesday, joking that the team to know what they need,” would do “what-Devaney said. ever Billy “They’re not decides.” going to do 
Devaney said “I think we’ve been something silly quarterback Sam just because 
saying we’re open
Bradford and they had more 
and we remain open.” 
defensive tackles time to think Ndamukong Suh about it.” and Gerald Billy Devaney Devaney had McCoy remained muted praise 
Rams general manager
in the running. He expected to have the team’s board stacked by later in the afternoon, and planned to poll scouts and coaches Wednesday. 
The Cleveland Browns, who have the seventh pick, are the only team to announce their desire to trade up with St. Louis. Devaney said interest “hasn’t been this massive movement, trust me.” 
“I think we’ve been saying we’re open and we remain 
open,” Devaney said. “But there isn’t anything close to being done, I know that. We still have a little bit of time and I expect we’d just keep on talking and see what hap ­pens.” 
Devaney didn’t appear to be a big fan of the first prime-for Bradford, 
the presumed 
front -runner for the first pick. He said there’s been contact with a number of players regarding a possible contract. 
“Yeah, we spent time with Bradford and he answered a lot of questions,” Devaney said. “But so did those other kids.” 
For the Rams to trade down, Devaney said the offer would have to be “something pretty darn good.” Bradford wowed scouts at his pro day in March while erasing doubts about his surgically repaired throwing shoulder, then impressed the Rams again in a private work­out last week. 
The Rams’ greatest need is probably quarterback after they released Marc Bulger earlier in the month, leaving them with veteran backup A.J. Feeley and raw Keith Null and Mike Reilly on the roster. But a franchise that finished 1-15 last year and is in a 6-42 trough the last three seasons needs help everywhere. 
Spagnuolo said it was a “pretty safe assessment” the Rams would take a quarter­back somewhere in the draft, although Devaney pointed out he’d like to pick a quarter­back every year, and Null was taken in the sixth round last year. 
Spagnuolo’s background is defense, but he said he’d have no problem with a quarter­back first. The Rams took offensive tackle Jason Smith last year with the first overall pick. 
“Can’t a quarterback help the defense get better?” Spagnuolo said. “I’ve never had a problem with that.” 
Devaney and Spagnuolo said the ownership situation has had no bearing on prepara­tions, and will not affect who they take. Minority owner Stan Kroenke exercised matching rights last week in an attempt to purchase the remaining 60 percent of the franchise. 
Illinois businessman Shahid Khan reached agreement with owners Chip Rosenbloom and his sister, Lucia Rodriguez, on Feb. 11 to buy the team. 
“We’re wrapped up here in these four walls and it’s all football,” Spagnuolo said. “We certainly respect what’s going on outside of it, it is a busi­ness, but we’re knee-deep in the football part of it.” 
MLB 
Girardi presents rings to Gaudin, Ramirez 
OAKLAND, Calif. — Before the New York Yankees could fully begin their on -field pregame routine Tuesday night, manager Joe Girardi had some important busi­ness to handle. 
He called over Oakland pitchers Chad Gaudin and Edwar Ramirez, both of 
whom sported pinstripes last season, for a makeshift ring ceremony in the middle of New York’s stretch ses ­sion just out­
s i d e  t h e  
dugout.  
T h e y  e a c h  
s l i p p e d  o n  

their World 
Series champion hardware 
— white gold encrusted with 119 diamonds totaling 3.55 carats — for everybody else to see. Ramirez kissed his ring. 
Gaudin couldn’t stop look­ing at the sparkler on his right ring finger, and his hand was visibly shaking as he discussed the ring’s meaning. 
“It’s unbelievable, it really is,” Gaudin said. “It defi­
nitely is shiny. It’s hard to take your eyes off it. It’s gor­geous. Through all the trials and tribulations, you look at this and know all the hard work pays off.” 
Ramirez, the only major lea-
For a few minutes, though, they were Yankees again — goofing around with their old teammates. There were hugs and hand­shakes coming from every which way for these two. 
“It couldn’t have been any better,” Gaudin said of the moment. “From the time I stepped on board with those guys 
“It’s hard to take until the time I left, it was 
your eyes off it. It’s 
first class.” 
gorgeous.” Ramirez spent the 2007-09 sea-
Chad Gaudin 
sons in the 
Athletics pitcher 
Bronx, pitch­
ing in 20 games last season after 
contributing 63 strikeouts in 55 1-3 innings of relief the year before. 
“It’s important for me, my family and my country, but it’s most important for my 
h o m e t o w n  w h e r e  I  w a s  
born,” he said.  
F o r m e r  Ya n k e e  H i d e k i  

Matsui, now with the Los Angeles Angels, received his ring during a ceremony last week at Yankee Stadium. 
But the slugger initially 
“Any time you put this on your fnger, you shake. I’m not sure I’m going to wear it.” 
Chad Gaudin Athletics pitcher 
was given a replica ver ­sion from a spring train­ing promo ­tion thanks to a joke pulled by Derek Jeter. Matsui 
opened the dark brown box with his ring, checked 
guer from his tiny home­town of El Cercado in the Dominican Republic, beamed as his former team­mates patted him on the head and yelled “Atta boy!” 
“Hey, we gotta stretch!” Yankees pitcher Chan Ho Park yelled repeatedly, laughing all the while. 
Girardi asked A’s manager Bob Geren for permission to bring the two pitchers over for the impromptu presenta­tion. Each joined the Oakland organization late in spring training, Gaudin for a second stint with the club. 
it out and was thrilled — not knowing the difference. 
“He got a fake one,” Gaudin said, examining his and knowing it was the real deal. “I was a little nervous. Any time you put this on your finger, you shake. I’m not sure I’m going to wear it.” 



Wednesday, April 21, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
NHL 
NBA 
Johnson, Smith power 

Red Wings defeat Coyotes 
Associated Press 
DETROIT — Jimmy Howard had a 29-save shutout and Henrik Zetterberg scored two goals to lead the Detroit Red Wings to a 3-0 series-evening victory over the Phoenix Coyotes in Game 4 on Tuesday night. 
Howard’s saves included one without his helmet. 
Phoenix will be at home Friday night, but has to return to Detroit for Game 6 on Sunday. 
Zetterberg’s first goal stood after a video review, which did-n’t help the Red Wings get a call changed in their favor earlier. 
Replays appeared to show Valtteri Filppula got a puck past the goal line before it bounced on it, lighting the lamp. A video review upheld the on-ice deci­sion to wave off the goal. It turned out to be moot. 
Pavel Datsyuk also scored for Detroit. 
Ilya Bryzgalov made 32 saves for the Coyotes. 

The Vezina Trophy finalist stopped the first 24 shots he faced, then gave up goals on three of the last 10 against him. 
Zetterberg scored with 4:27 left in the second period, mak­ing the puck flutter past Bryzgalov off a blast from Niklas Kronwall. 
Datsyuk scored on a one-timer in the right circle off Johan Franzen’s cross-ice pass with 4:07 left in the game and Zetterberg sealed the victory 25 seconds later with his fifth goal of the series. 
The Red Wings stuck with their rookie in net after he gave up four goals in each of the pre­vious two games, choosing to keep veteran Chris Osgood on the bench. 
Howard rewarded their faith. 

He passed his first test by making a kick save on Sami Lepisto’s shot in the opening minute and finished with a shutout for the first time in his four career playoff games. 
Bryzgalov was really good, 
Hawks to Game 2 win 

too, keeping Detroit scoreless for nearly 35 minutes and pre­venting them from taking a two-goal lead despite some good chances in the first half of the third period. 
The Coyotes had a power play midway through the third peri­od and just before Detroit killed it off, it was called for another penalty to give them two extra skaters. 
Phoenix couldn’t take advan­tage, giving the fans at Joe Louis Arena a reason to cheer knowing they will see at least one more game at home. 
Phoenix was without its leader and perhaps best skater, captain Shane Doan, whose right shoulder took the brunt of a collision with the endboards early in the second period of Game 3. 
The Coyotes did get forward Vernon Fiddler back in the line­up after he got hit in the lip by a stick in Game 2 and was scratched from the next game. 
“They outplayed us in 
Woodson said. “And Jennings “We just have to almost every spot up is a tough cover 
keep him playing and down the foor. because he is so at a high level, quick, and he 
We’ve got three days 
keep his head in can shoot the the game and to get better.” outside shot as we’ll be just fine.” well as get to 
That applies to the rim.” 
Scott Skiles 
the team as a The Bucks 
Bucks coach 
game, he fires up the home crowd with his gravity defying plays. 
“He’s one of those players that can control the game without calling plays for him,” said John Salmons, who led the Bucks with 21 points. 
Johnson took over in the fourth quarter. After Milwaukee had closed to single-digit range, he buried four straight jumpers, the last of them a 3-pointer from the corner after snaring a rocket pass from Smith, pushing the Hawks to an 87-74 lead that essentially finished off the Bucks. 
“I felt like we were in a drought,” said Johnson, who scored 10 points in the final peri­od and bolstered his all-around effort with six assists, two blocks and a steal. “I just wanted to be aggressive and make plays.” 
Johnson also led the defensive effort against Bucks rookie star Brandon Jennings, who followed up a 34-point performance in Game 1 with just nine points on 3-of-15 shooting. 
“All season long he’s been play­ing point guards, so he’s sort of 
used to it now,” 
Woodson said. 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA — High-flying Josh Smith dominated on the inside. Joe Johnson stepped up from the outside when the Hawks needed him. 
The result: Atlanta has a 2-0 lead in a best-of-seven series for the first time in 40 years. 
Johnson took control in the fourth quarter to finish off a 27­point effort, Smith finished one assist shy of a triple-double and the Hawks ran away from the pesky but outmanned Milwaukee Bucks for a 96-86 victory in the Eastern Conference playoffs Tuesday night. 
Smith played as though he’s still upset about being snubbed for the All-Star game, when teammates Johnson and Al Horford were selected but he stayed home. He’s certainly a player capable of taking control of a series in many ways, as he demonstrated with his 21 points, 14 rebounds and nine assists, not to mention two blocks and two steals. 
“There’s nothing he can’t do on the floor,” Hawks coach Mike 


whole. Woodson was mindful of last season, when Atlanta blew out Miami in its playoff opener — then lost at home and had to go the full seven games. 
This time, the Hawks took care of business on their home court. They’ll head to Milwaukee on Saturday night with a command­ing lead, the first time they’ve won the first two in a best-of­seven series since the Western Division semifinals in 1970. That team went on to beat Chicago in five games, but lost to the Los Angeles Lakers in the division finals. 
The current Hawks aren’t tak­ing anything for granted, even though they’ve seemed capable of pulling away any time Milwaukee tries to make a run. 
“We’re on edge,” said Horford, who teamed with Smith to give the Hawks a big edge in the lane. “We can’t take them lightly. We know it’s going to be tough up there.” 
Again, the Hawks’ balance and size advantage on the inside were just too much for the Bucks, who knew they’d face a huge challenge in this series after 7­foot center Andrew Bogut took a hard fall late in the regular sea­son and was done for the play­offs. 
All five Atlanta starters reached double figures for the second game in a row, and the two guys on the inside sure took advantage of Bogut’s absence. 
Smith had the crowd on its feet with four thunderous dunks and a couple more above-the-rim lay-ins. Horford was nearly as domi­nant, scoring 20 points, snatch­ing down 10 rebounds and block­ing three shots. 
“We understand that we’ve got bigger guys down low,” Smith said. “When we miss a shot, we can usually get the putback or pass to a wide-open (Mike) Bibby or Joe. We want to make it easy for those guys.” 
When Smith is really on his head home, 
hoping to turn things around in the next two games. But they’ve led only three times in the series — never by more than two points — for a total of 1 minute, 32 seconds, looking very much like a team making its first playoff appear­ance since 2006. 
“Our preparations have been great, but we’re having trouble taking it onto the game floor,” coach Scott Skiles said. “We knew it would be interesting to see how we would react in this type of environment. They out­played us in almost every spot up and down the floor. We’ve got three days to get better.” 
Ersan Ilyasova came up big off the bench with 13 points and 15 rebounds, but Jerry Stackhouse was the only other Milwaukee player in double figures with 15 points. The Bucks shot only 41 percent (37 of 90). 
The Bucks grabbed their first lead of the series, 4-2, on Luc Mbah a Moute’s putback less than 1½ minutes into the game. But Atlanta looked like it was headed for another first-half blitz, pushing out to 22-12 lead on Marvin Williams’ three-point play. 
In Game 1, the Hawks led by 20 in the opening quarter and 22 at halftime. 
This time, Milwaukee kept it respectable in the early going, ripping off an 8-0 spurt to get right back in the game. But the Hawks scored the final six points of the period in flamboyant fash­ion. Smith stole the ball in the defensive end and took off, going all the way to the hoop for a thunderous left-handed jam that brought the crowd to its feet. 
After Salmons turned it over, the Hawks were running again. Jamal Crawford missed on an attempted slam, but Smith grabbed the rebound and put it back in while stumbling back­ward with 2 seconds remaining to put Atlanta ahead 28-20. 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, April 21, 2010 
MLB 

League disappointed by slow Rangers sale 
Associated Press 
ANAHEIM, Calif. — Major League Baseball is disappointed the proposed sale of the Texas Rangers from Tom Hicks to Chuck Greenberg’s group had been stalled by a dispute involv­ing the lenders to the team’s owner. 
The sides announced an agree­ment on Jan. 23, but creditors of the Hicks Sports Group, which owns the Rangers and the NHL’s Dallas Stars, have not approved it. 
“We’ve gone since January on this. We hoped to have it closed on or about opening day, and we’re disappointed it’s not closed yet,” Bob DuPuy, baseball’s chief operating officer, told The Associated Press on Tuesday before an All-Star game news conference. 
“Tom Hicks and the buyer are trying to get the transaction com­pleted,” DuPuy said. “The com­missioner has had considerable contact with the parties, and we’re working closely. We under­stood that because of the Hicks Sports Group debt—the parent company and not the team—that there were issues with regard to the parent company lenders. 
“We’ve met with them, as well, and we’re trying to work through that. We think the purchase agreement for the consideration being paid for the Rangers repre­sents a fair purchase price, and we’re anxious to see the deal closed as written. But I’m not going to predict.” 
Hicks Sports Group said in February it had retained Galatioto Sports Partners to look for new investors and explore the idea of selling a majority stake in the Dallas Stars. 
Separately, Hicks and George Gillette Jr. said Friday that had hired Barclays Bank to lead the search for a buyer for Liverpool, which they co-own under a sepa­rate entity. 
Once the lenders approve the sale, it also must be approved by three-quarters of the 30 teams. 
The same process resulted in the approval of Frank and Jamie McCourt when they bought the Los Angeles Dodgers from the Fox. Despite the McCourt’s divorce proceedings, DuPuy said MLB doesn’t have any second thoughts about approving them. 
“The McCourts have done a fine job operating the Dodgers,” DuPuy said. “Their personal situ­ation is sad for them, but no one has any regrets about the McCourts’ ownership of the Dodgers. They have said they have no intention to sell the team, and I take them at their word.” 
Meanwhile, about 35 miles down the freeway, Angels owner Arte Moreno is eagerly anticipat­ing the All-Star game on July 13 and the chance to show off his ballpark. He cringed a little when asked whether changing the name of the team from to Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim from Anaheim Angels helped the team gain the right to host the All-Stars. 
“That’s a tough question, but I’m not going to comment on that right now. I don’t want to start a firestorm over something we don’t need to start a firestorm on,” Moreno said. “It’s the num­ber two media market, and there are 18 million people in the Metroplex. So you really want to be in a situation where you can really showcase everything we have to offer here. 
“I started grinding on this five years ago,” Moreno added. “Every meeting I had my little presentation book and showed them why they should be coming to Southern California. People forget what a hotbed of baseball California is.” 
Also attending Tuesday’s news conference promoting the All-Star balloting was former Angels great Rod Carew, who played in 18 All-Star games—including the previous one in Anaheim as a rookie second baseman in 1967. The NL won that year on Tony Perez’s 15th-inning homer against Catfish Hunter. 
MLB 
Reyes leads Mets past Cubs 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Mike Pelfrey followed up his save Saturday with seven scoreless innings Tuesday night and Jose Reyes returned to the starting lineup and had a two-run triple among his four hits, leading the New York Mets to a 4-0 victory over the Chicago Cubs. 
The Mets took advantage of a two-out walk to Pelfrey in the second to score the game’s first runs against a stingy Carlos Zambrano. Pinch-hitter Fernando Tatis had a two-run homer in the eighth inning for New York, which has won the first two games of a 10-game homestand. 
The punchless Cubs have lost four in a row, scoring just six runs during the skid. 
Mets top prospect Ike Davis went 0 for 3 with a walk in his second big league game and made a nifty running catch behind first base in the fourth. His dad, former Yankees reliever Ron Davis, was in the crowd after not having enough time get to Citi Field from Arizona to see his son’s debut Monday. 
Pelfrey (3-0), who didn’t allow a hit until Mike Fontenot’s one-out single in the fifth, extended his scoreless streak to 19 innings, matching a career high. He allowed three hits, walked three and struck out six. 
He began a stretch of six splendid starts for New York’s rotation Thursday with seven shutout innings against Colorado. Pelfrey also picked up the team’s first save of the sea­son, pitching the 20th inning of a 2-1 win over St. Louis on Saturday. 
With his outing Tuesday, Mets starters have allowed just four earned runs in the last 38 innings and New York is 4-2 in that span. Pelfrey has three of the team’s six wins — plus that save against the Cardinals. 
Reliever Ryota Igarashi strained his left hamstring when he slipped trying to retrieve Koyie Hill’s bunt in front of the mound leading off the eighth for an error. Igarashi left after get­ting two outs. Fernando Nieve relieved with a runner on second and struck out Jeff Baker. 
Francisco Rodriguez finished the three-hitter by pitching the ninth. 


Wednesday, April 21, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
MLB 

League drops 5-game suspension of Cliff Lee 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE — Major League Baseball has dropped its five-game suspension of Mariners pitcher Cliff Lee. 
MLB vice president of administration John McHale made the decision after Lee’s appeal hearing last week. Lee and the Mariners’ head trainer said in a conference call with the league then that the pitch­er’s injuries caused an errant pitch in a spring-training game. 
The Mariners said McHale wrote in a letter to Lee and the team that he determined “the difficulties in recovering from foot surgery during the offsea­son combined with the physi­cal challenges created by your serious muscle strain” were sufficient evidence to rescind the suspension and fine. 
The league often reduces suspensions but rarely drops them. 
MLB disciplined the 2008 AL Cy Young Award winner after he was ejected from a March 15 spring training game in Tucson against the Diamondbacks for throwing over the head of batter Chris Snyder. 
Lee had strained his abdomen earlier in the game while colliding with Snyder, as the pitcher was backing up the plate on a scoring play. 


Seattle placed its prized win­ter acquisition from Philadelphia on the 15-day dis­abled list April 4, retroactive to March 26. Lee is due to make a minor-league rehabilitation start on Sunday, and the Mariners had planned for him to make his Seattle debut on May 2 against Texas. 
But that was before Tuesday’s ruling. 
“We are pleased that Major League Baseball has come to this determination,” Mariners general manager Jack Zduriencik said. “We look for­ward to Cliff completing his injury rehabilitation and returning to the mound to compete.” 
Lee was scheduled to throw in a second simulated game Tuesday, hours before the Mariners host Baltimore. He said he feels no pain in the abdomen, which he has strained three times since 2003. 
Mike Teevan, a spokesman for Major League Baseball, said there have been two recent suspensions rescinded by the league, in cases similar to Lee’s. Yet Lee having all five games dropped is the longest suspension to be rescinded recently. 
On Sept. 26, 2007, the league revoked a three-game suspension of Milwaukee pitcher Seth McClung for hit­ting St. Louis Cardinals slugger Albert Pujols with a pitch. McHale also heard that appeal, in which McClung produced a videotape of the pitch that showed a hitch in his deliv­ery—indicating bad mechanics rather than intent to throw at Pujols. 
MLB 
Volquez suspended 50 games 
Associated Press 
CINCINNATI — Former All-Star pitcher Edinson Volquez was suspended 50 games Tuesday following a positive test for a banned fertility sub­stance, a punishment that will cost him money but won’t hurt the Cincinnati Reds’ rotation. 
The 26-year-old right-hander is recovering from reconstruc­tive elbow surgery and isn’t expected to rejoin the Reds until late July at the earliest. He can serve the suspension from Major League Baseball while continuing his rehabilita­tion at the team’s spring train­ing complex in Goodyear, Ariz. 
“That’s the only good thing,” Reds pitcher Bronson Arroyo said. “I’m actually surprised they’re letting him do that.” 
Volquez became the first player suspended under the major league drug program since Manny Ramirez of the Los Angeles Dodgers was penalized 50 games last May. 
Volquez said in a statement he received a prescription in the Dominican Republic as part of his treatment to start a fami­ly with his wife. He said the drug was banned by MLB — four types of fertility sub­stances are illegal under base­ball rules. 
“As a result, I tested positive when I reported to spring train­ing,” he said. “Although I understand that I must accept responsibility for this mistake and have chosen not to chal­lenge my suspension, I want to assure everyone that this was an isolated incident involving my genuine effort to treat a common medical issue.” 
Volquez’s suspension starts Wednesday. He could be eligi­ble to play starting June 15. Volquez was to make $445,000 this season, so barring rainouts the suspension will cost him $133,743. 
“When he’s ready to pitch, he’ll be able to pitch,” general manager Walt Jocketty said. 

An All-Star in 2008 when he went 17-6 with a 3.21 ERA for the Reds, Volquez was 4-2 with a 4.35 ERA last season before feeling pain in his arm in June. He twice went on the disabled list, the first time with back spasms and then with the elbow injury that finished his season. 
“The Reds fully support Major League Baseball’s drug policy and its penalties. The organization does not condone in any way the use of drugs not sanctioned by MLB’s medical staff,” the team said in a state­ment before Tuesday night’s game against the Dodgers. 
MLB’s labor contract does not allow it to release which drug caused the positive test. A list of drugs that trigger positives is released after each season, without identifying which play­er used it. 
MLB and the players’ union repeatedly warn players not to use any substance without guidance from doctors or train­ers who are aware of the banned list. Players are shown an instructional video each spring training and given liter­ature advising them about unauthorized medications and supplements. 
“I was not trying in any way to gain an advantage in my baseball career,” Volquez said in his statement. “I am embar­rassed by this whole situation and apologize to my family, friends, fans, teammates, and the entire Reds organization for being a distraction and for causing them any difficulty.” 
“I simply want to accept the consequences, learn from the mistake, and continue to strive to be the best person and base­ball player I can be,” he said. 
Ramirez was suspended after turning over to MLB a prescrip­tion for a banned female fertili­ty drug. 


NBA 
Howard earns top defender award 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. — Dwight Howard turned to Orlando Magic general manager Otis Smith, somewhat unsure how to answer the question. 
Already the youngest player ever with two NBA defensive player of the year awards, just how many could he eventually win? 
Smith raised his hands, all 10 fingers dangling. Howard laughed, smiled and nodded his head. 
“That’s not enough?” Smith asked. “I don’t have enough hands.” 
At this rate, it might not be so far fetched. 
The Magic’s All-Star center won the award for the second straight year Tuesday after becoming the only player to lead the league in blocks and rebounds in the same season twice — let alone two years in a row. 
Now 24, perhaps the next step for Howard is improving his offensive game enough to sway voters that he should win the Most Valuable Player award. Cleveland’s LeBron James seems certain to take that honor again, and Howard said voters should factor in defense more. 
“I think most people look at Most Valuable Player as some­body who scores a lot of points, which is great. I believe that defense wins championships, wins games,” said Howard, who averaged 18.3 points per game. “I’ve always thought about it like that, and I’ll continue to think about it like that.” 
That mentality helped him run­away with the defensive award again. 
Howard received 576 total points, including 110 first-place votes from a panel of 122 writers and broadcasters. Atlanta’s Josh Smith was second with 136 points, and Charlotte’s Gerald Wallace finished third with 113 points. 
Howard averaged 13.2 rebounds and 2.8 blocks per game this season, powering the Magic (59-23) to the league’s sec-ond-best record behind Cleveland. Only Bill Walton, Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, Hakeem Olajuwon and Ben Wallace each led the NBA in those categories once in the same season. 
“I think it speaks very highly of him, at 24, he’s winning the award twice,” Van Gundy said. 
Howard has long preached defense first. 
He has studied Bill Russell for years, reading books and newspa­per articles on the player many consider the greatest defensive center in history. Howard is also good friends with defensive stand­out Dikembe Mutombo and assis­tant coach Patrick Ewing. 
The former centers challenged him from the beginning to be a great defender above all else. 
“Not all good players in this league, and not all great players in this league accept challenges, and that’s probably the biggest growth that you see in him is that he accepts the challenge that’s put in front of him,” Smith said. “The challenge that’s put in front of him is being the best defensive player night in, and night out.” 
So far, so good. 
The man they call Superman swooped in to effect more shots than he blocked this season, changing games with his pres­ence in the paint. Howard has been a matchup nightmare against almost every team, the main reason the Magic kept opposing shooters to an NBA-low 
43.8 percent shooting. 

page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, April 21, 2010 
Belles 
continued from page 24 
and Lee. 
At No. 4 singles, junior Franca Peluso brought home the third victory for the Belles. She defeated Kelsey VanDeWege 6-3, 6-2. 
“We can take away from Kalamazoo’s match the fact that every point really mat­ters in the overall outcome of the match,” Gebert said. “We know that doubles is going to be crucial, and if we can get at least one of the doubles points, we will have a better chance of out­ing Hope at the end.” 
The Hope match begins a difficult stretch of three matches in three days for the Belles. Non-conference 
Hope 
continued from page 24 
doubleheader against con­ference opponent Olivet 
opponent Bethel comes to town Thursday and confer­ence opponent Adrian will travel to South Bend Friday in what will be the final home match of the season for the Belles and the last of Gebert’s impressive career. 
“We are looking to keep on making improvements, ” Gebert said. “We have put a lot of hard work into this season and now it is just a matter of waiting for it to pay off.” 
Saint Mary’s will have one match next week before par­ticipating in the MIAA Championships next Friday and Saturday in Holland, Mich. The Belles face off against Hope Wednesday at 4 p.m. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
College Saturday. 
The doubleheader begins today at 3:30 p.m. at Hope College. 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 
NASCAR 

Drivers pleased with tire tests at Indianapolis 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Tony Stewart savored Tuesday’s home­coming. 
His tires worked properly in testing, Indianapolis’ oval absorbed the rubber like it should have and the two-time Cup champ even worked in a few one-liners about Kyle Busch. 
No complaints, here. 
After spending the morning on the 2.5-mile oval, Stewart and Busch again gave Goodyear’s tires high marks—a sign that that the manufacturer has found a solution to the problems that plagued the Brickyard 400 two years ago. 
“It’s been pretty uneventful this morning. We’re already putting rubber down on the track and in the past that’s been a problem,” Stewart said during a lunch break. “Right now, everything seems to be pretty normal. The tire they brought here last year was no drama, and I think it will be that way again.” 
Fans, race organizers and driv­ers couldn’t have asked for a stronger endorsement. 
Stewart grew up in Indiana and raced in IndyCars before jumping to NASCAR. He has always main­tained a fondness for the century-old track and considers his two wins at the Brickyard among his most prestigious racing achieve­ments. 
But when excessive tear wear turned the 2008 Brickyard into a series of 10-to 12-lap sprints, angry drivers and fans com­plained about Goodyear’s inabili­ty to get it right. 
The tire manufacturer responded by going into full rede­velopment mode and returned last year with a softer compound that now appears to be catching on at other tracks, too. 
“I think they’re finding some­thing that’s working at a lot of places,” Stewart said. 
Fourteen drivers were sched­uled to test Tuesday in calm, sunny conditions. Temperatures were forecast to reach the mid­60s, and drivers were expected to return for a second testing ses­sion Wednesday. 
Stewart and Busch both gave the tires a thumbs up, and Busch alleviated any concern about the newest question: Will the new rear spoiler have any impact on the July 25 race? 
If anything, the combination might make this year’s Brickyard more entertaining. 
“It seems like the car is just a little more comfortable,” Busch said. “You can run up there, a lit­tle sideways, and drive right through it.” 
Testing was only part of the reason Stewart and Busch hung out together in Indy. 
The two also were promoting the annual Prelude to the Dream charity race on June 9 in Rossburg, Ohio. Clint Bowyer, Kasey Kahne, Denny Hamlin and Busch will serve as captains of four teams that will compete to benefit children’s hospitals in Indianapolis, Cincinnati, Charlotte, N.C., and Memphis, Tenn. 
Forty-five percent of the pro­ceeds will go to the winning team’s hospital, 25 percent will go to the runner-up, and the third-and fourth-place teams will each receive 15 percent. 
The race will be held at Eldora Speedway, the dirt track that Stewart owns, and will be carried live on pay-per-view for $24.95. 
“We’re always looking for a reason to go racing somewhere anyway,” Stewart said, drawing laughter, before Busch punched back, “Stewart is.” 
“And this coming from a guy who races three days a week as it is now,” Stewart joked. 
In fact, the two were already working overtime this week because of the two rain-delayed races in Texas. 
Busch finished third in Monday’s Cup race, then won the Nationwide Series race—com­pleting 800 miles on the day before he tested at Indy. Busch will test again Wednesday, then head to Talladega on Thursday. 
LPGA 
Ochoa retires as Tour’s No. 1 
Associated Press 
MEXICO CITY — Lorena Ochoa is retiring, just as Annika Sorenstam did two years ago, leaving the struggling LPGA Tour without its No. 1 player again and depriving the sport of one of its great ambassadors. 
Ochoa, probably the best-known athlete in Mexico who is not a soccer player, announced her surprise decision Tuesday and will discuss her plans Friday. 
The 28-year-old Mexican got married last year, setting off speculation she might be putting golf aside to raise a family. She has been No. 1 in the world the last three years and won 27 times over the last six. 
“Lorena Ochoa confirms her retirement from the LPGA, as news reports in some media have said today,” her statement said. “The reasons and more details on the matter will be given by Lorena personally in a press conference on Friday in Mexico City. Lorena will share this news of a new stage in her life with her sponsors, family members and friends.” 
The LPGA told The Associated Press it would not comment until Friday’s news conference. 
The LPGA said late Tuesday that Ochoa had not withdrawn from next week’s Tres Marias event in Morelia, west of Mexico City, and indicated she was expected to play. She finished fourth earlier this month in the Kraft Nabisco Championship in Calif., the first major of the year. 
“I’m just crushed,” Judy Rankin, a Hall of Famer and tel­evision analyst, said upon hear­ing the news. “We won’t get to see her play golf. Mostly, we won’t get to see her.” 
Sorenstam was 37 when she retired in May 2008, saying she wanted to pursue other interests and start a family. She now has a daughter. 
The newspaper Reforma first reported Ochoa’s retirement and said she wanted to concentrate on her family and charities. In December, she wed Andres Conesa, the chief executive of Aeromexico airline. He has three children from a previous mar­riage. 
“I must admit that I was sur­prised, but not shocked, when I heard the news yesterday that Lorena is going to retire,” Sorenstam said on her blog. “She has always said she would play for maybe 10 years and then leave the game to start a family. She just got married and obviously feels that she is ready for that next chapter in her life.” 
Ochoa has also talked openly about wanting children of her own. Last year, she began travel­ing more, playing less and taking on more obligations, which include her charity foundation. 
“Personally, it’s more impor­tant the things that I do outside the golf course,” Ochoa said last year before a tournament she hosts in her hometown of Guadalajara. “And that’s been my main focus right now.” 
“I will think about a family, but later on,” added Ochoa, often described as an “awesome per­son” by other players. 
Her retirement is a blow to an LPGA Tour buffeted by the rough economy. It has only 25 tourna­ments on its schedule this year, 14 of them in the United States. 
Sorenstam became the face of the tour by winning the career Grand Slam, becoming the only woman to shoot 59 and playing in the Colonial, the first woman in 58 years to compete on the PGA Tour. 
Ochoa never quite assumed that star power, playing before moderate crowds even as she was going for a record-tying fifth straight victory in Tulsa, Okla., two years ago. 
Ochoa was defined as much by her dominance as her gracious­ness. Mindful of her roots, she often would go to the mainte­nance barn during LPGA Tour events and speak with the work­ers, many of them from Mexico. 
She won six times in 2006, rose to No. 1 in 2007 and cap­tured her first major at St. Andrews the same year by win­ning the Women’s British Open. Ochoa’s other major was the 2008 Kraft Nabisco Championship, where she took the traditional jump into the pond with her family as a mari­achi band serenaded her. 
She won her fourth consecu­tive LPGA Tour player of the year award in 2009, narrowly holding off Jiyai Shin. Ochoa played four times this year, with her best finish at the Kraft Nabisco Championship when she finished fourth. 
Shin of South Korea is No. 2 in the rankings and Yani Tseng of Taiwan, this year’s Kraft Nabisco winner, is No. 3. Both are in position to fill the void left by Ochoa. 
There is also Michelle Wie, who won her first tournament last season and may have the star wattage the LPGA is looking for. Wie is ranked No. 9. 
Sorenstam said she is happy for Ochoa, although acknowledg­ing the LPGA will “certainly miss her great play, warm demeanor and smile.” 


Wednesday, April 21, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, April 21, 2010 
While the event will take place in LaFortune Student 
Bald 
continued from page 24 
really been counting on them; they have been at most meet­ings and gave input on how to reach out to the student body.” 
She also said the football players’ involvement could increase overall turnout. 
“I think that in good ways this really draws attention to this event,” Pankiw said. “I think a lot of people look up to them at this University.” 
Pankiw said Crist and other members of the committee who plan to shave their heads or donate their hair visited St. Joseph’s Memorial Hospital Tuesday morning to meet some of the children current­ly undergoing treatment for cancer. 
“You go over there and you meet some unbelievable kids and some unbelievable fami­lies,” Crist said. “It really does put everything in per­spective and makes you feel very fortunate for what you have, and as an athlete you feel very blessed to play at Notre Dame and do the things you do and go to school here.” 
Center Wednesday through Friday, Pankiw said, it will also be a part of the University-sponsored FanFest at the Irish Green. Fans who come for the Blue-Gold Game will be able to shave their heads, buy a hair extension or donate to the cause. 
“[The football players] par­ticipated in the event last year and they were so excited about it,” Pankiw said. “This year they reached out to [stu­dent body president] Catherine Soler, who was a big planner for this, and said they really wanted to be involved. That’s why we coor­dinated the whole week around the Blue-Gold Game activities.” 
Crist said senior offensive lineman Taylor Dever, who has long hair, was a hard sell but is “on board.” 
While Crist has been work­ing hard to get the football players to donate, there was 
one person he did not approach: Irish coach Brian Kelly. 
“I wasn’t courageous enough to do that,” Crist said. 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

Valdivia 
continued from page 24 
squad in her focus. 
“It has been the greatest, experiencing receiving four Pitcher of the Week honors,” Valdivia said. “On top of that, it has been wonderful how well the entire team has been doing with weekly honors as well.” 
Even with her accomplish­ments, Valdivia said she still sees room for improvement as she continues the hard work she has put in to this point. She said she also uses the awards as greater moti­vation to succeed. 
“This year my approach has really been one game at a time and one inning at a time, and it has helped me through some tough games,” Valdivia said. “I am always working on improving my pitching throughout the entire season, and being a recipient of the weekly awards is a great incentive.” 
The Irish have certainly faced challenging opponents this season, and Valdivia’s contributions from the circle have certainly aided in put­ting the Irish in their posi­tions in the conference and the national spotlight. Notre Dame continues to hold the top record in the Big East heading into Wednesday’s match against the Crusaders (27-12, 7-3 Horizon). 
“Our defense and offense have been excellent this sea­son,” Valdivia said. “We are always working on improving both, of course, but they have been doing a really good job of keeping us in games and controlling other teams.” 
The Irish may have suffered their first loss in nine games over the weekend, but with Sunday’s win and their suc­cess this spring, they are not letting anything hold them back as they enter the final stretch of the season. With Valdivia on the mound, don’t expect Notre Dame to hit the breaks anytime soon. 
“I feel this team is the strongest it has ever been, and we are only gaining more momentum as we approach the Big East tournament and postseason,” Valdivia said. Facing the Crusaders only gives the Irish another chance to keep their energy up and work toward their next Big East opponent, DePaul, who they will face Saturday. 
“We have played Valpo for a couple of years now,” Valdivia said. “While we look at these midweek games as prepara­tion for our Big East games, we know we have a job at hand of picking up a win.” 
Looking for another win at home, Valdivia and the rest of the team are keeping their sights set on the Crusaders, and them only. 
“We are excited to get at bats from their pitchers and to face hitters to work out some stuff, but as always when we hit the field Wednesday, Valpo is our number one opponent,” Valdivia said. 
The Irish take on Valparaiso today at 4 p.m. at Melissa Cook Stadium. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 



Wednesday, April 21, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 





JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Wednesday, April 21, 2010 page 24 
FOOTBALL 

Strength in numbers 
Crist,teammatestoshave heads for cancer research 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Junior quarterback Dayne Crist is putting his new lead­ership position to good use — by convincing his teammates to shave their heads to raise money for pediatric cancer research. 
Crist will be one of many Irish football players to go bald today for The Bald and the Beautiful, an event spon­sored by the Sophomore Class Council. Crist said he has convinced 20 to 30 play­ers to attend the event, though not all are sure about shaving their heads. 

“We’re still working on more guys but realistically even if they’re not cutting their hair, it’s a huge way to raise money and really help out some kids that are obvi­ously going through a very tough time,” Crist said. “We’re just trying to get as JULIE HERDER/The Observer many people there as possi-Quarterbacks Dayne Crist, left, and Brian Castello walk from the Guglielmino Complex on April ble. 12. Crist and several teammates will shave their heads Wednesday to support cancer research. 
“I feel like once we get some people there that said sive back Mike Anello served and publicity of the four-day ceeds going to local hospitals. initially they weren’t going to as part of a 30-member plan-event, during which students “They really have been cut their hair and they see ning committee for this can shave their heads to ben-instrumental in our planning everyone else doing it, hope-year’s event. efit the St. Baldrick’s process,” Pankiw said. fully that gets them Sophomore class service Foundation, donate eight “We’ve had meetings once a inspired.” committee member Erin inches of hair to Pantene week since October. We have 
Crist, junior center Mike Pankiw said the players con-Beatiful Lengths or purchase Golic and former Irish defen-tributed a lot to the planning hair extensions with pro -see BALD/page 22 

SMC SOFTBALL 
Teamready for 2 with rival Hope 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s will play a pivotal doubleheader today, facing off against conference opponent Hope College. 
Hope (15 -13, 5-1 MIAA) currently tops the confer­ence standings, three spots ahead of the Belles (18-14, 7-3 MIAA) who are tied for fourth. 
The Belles will look to assert themselves as a force in the MIAA in these two games against the top team in the conference. The games provide a criti­cal opportunity for the Belles to make up distance in the conference standings as well position themselves for tournament play. 
Belles coach Erin Sullivan pinpointed the upcoming games as some 
of the most important of the year. 
“Hope and Calvin are especially important games. If we win those, we have a shot at the regular season title,” Sullivan said. 
Saint Mary ’s hopes to continue the momentum gained after sweeping a 
see HOPE/page 20 


ND SOFTBALL 

Irish play host to Valparaiso 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Propelled by junior pitcher Jody Valdivia’s fourth Big East Pitcher of the Week honor, the No. 24 Irish will face Valparaiso this after­noon in a non -conference home game. 
Notre Dame (34-7, 12-1 Big East) is coming off a tight 3-1 win over No. 25 Louisville Sunday. 
Valdivia’s award was well-deserved this past week, as she won five games without allowing a single earned run over 27.1 innings. Although it is her fourth honor this season, Valdivia has not let it get to her head. Instead, she keeps the entire Notre Dame 
see VALDIVIA/page 22 


TOM LA/The Observer Junior pitcher Jody Valdivia throws a pitch during Notre Dame’s 2-0 victory over South Florida on April 11. 
SMC TENNIS 
Belles hope to right the ship against Hope 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
The Belles will take on Hope College today at home looking to snap a four-match losing streak. 
“I think that the key to defeating Hope is patience,” senior captain Camille Gebert said. “We need to have the patience to stay in those long points and to keep fighting in every match. It is going to be a matter of one or two matches tomorrow, and if we can stay relaxed and confident, our chances of winning will be higher.” 
The Belles lost to rival Kalamazoo College 6-3 Saturday to drop to 8-7 (2­3 MIAA) on the season. 
Despite the setback, the match featured several bright points for the Belles. 
The doubles team of jun­iors Jillian Hurley and Mary Therese Lee once again pulled out a victory for Saint Mary’s, as they defeated Kelsey Hassevoort and Paula Silverman 8-6. 
Gebert also won her match, winning a 6-2, 6-2 decision over Hassevoort. 
Saturday ’s success marked the third victory in four matches for both Gebert and the No. 2 dou­bles combination of Hurley 
see BELLES/page 20 






