the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


ND celebrates opening Mass 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
University President Fr. John Jenkins urged students to follow the humble example of Blessed André Bessette during his homi­ly at Notre Dame’s annual Opening Mass Tuesday evening. 
Students, faculty and staff gathered to celebrate the start of a new academic year in the Joyce Center and were invited to attend a picnic dinner after­ward on DeBartolo Quad. 
Blessed André Bessette, who will be canonized as a saint of the Roman Catholic Church in October, entered the Holy Cross Novitiate in 1870 and served the other members of his order in Montreal as the porter or doorman. 
“This simple man didn’t have great plans, but simply watched the door and waited,” Jenkins said. “He viewed each person who came through that door as a call from God to compassion.” 
There are various doors through which certain people and events come into our lives and we must watch these doors with compassion and attentive­ness, he said. 
“As we get on with the excit­ing and invigorating work of this semester, I hope you all remember the simple brother from Montreal,” Jenkins said. 
Jenkins also stressed the importance of quiet prayer in the midst of busy lives. He said the Mass readings remind us that we must listen to what the 
see MASS/page 6 

DESERT TO DOME 


DANJACOBS/TheObserver Dean of Science Gregory Crawford and his wife Renate pose after completing a 2,200-mile bike ride from Arizona to Notre Dame. The Desert to Dome ride raised funds and awareness for the Ara Parseghian Medical Research Foundation. 

Bookstore begins textbook rental 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
In an attempt to offset rising costs of education, some stu­dents are turning to the new Follett Rent-A-Text program, now available at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. 
“We already have about 25 percent of the student body reg­istered to rent, which is phe­nomenal,” student body presi­dent Catherine Soler said. “I’ve even gotten a few text messages from people asking me how to go about renting textbooks.” 
Soler said students can expect to save as much as 50 percent 
see TEXTBOOK/page 5 



Italianpresidentknights Saint Mary’s professor 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
Chivalry may be dead, but the honor of knighthood still recog­nizes individuals for their work, like Portia Prebys, director of Saint Mary’s study abroad pro­gram in Rome. 
Italian President Giorgio Napolitano knighted Prebys on May 24 in Rome, bestowing her with the title “Cavalier of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic.” 
This Order of Merit of the Italian Republic is the highest-ranking honor in the country and is awarded for “merit acquired by the nation” in litera­ture, the arts, economy, public service and social, philanthropic and humanitarian activities as well as for distinguishable civil­ian and military careers. 
Prebys is among a handful of women who have been given the title of “Cavaliere” by the Republic of Italy. This makes her title all the more important to her, she said. 
“Italy’s prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, is sometimes 
see KNIGHTED/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER ND continues renovations page 4  Now and then: Moving in page 10  Football position battles page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Wednesday, August 25, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 


Welcome back 

If you’re reading this, we’re official­ly up and running here at The Observer! 
As a staff, we’re excited to embark on another year of covering the sto­ries, events and debates that mat­ter most to you, our readers. 
With the new year comes new opportunities to get involved with The Observer. If you 


Matt Gamber
have a story idea or want to weigh in on a topic in 

Editor-in-Chief 
Viewpoint, check out ndsmcobserv­er.com for ways to contribute. If you’re interested in joining our staff, feel free to e-mail me any questions you have. 
We’re hosting an open house on Sunday from 3 to 6 p.m., where you can meet with editors and learn about our daily production process. We’ll also be at activities night next Tuesday, so be sure to stop by if you’re interested. 
Shifting gears, I’d like to share a few changes we’re making to our print and online content this year. These changes are designed to allow us to better manage our key resources: space, time and money. 
As the University’s only independ­ent, student-run, daily newspaper, we want the majority of our content to be our own coverage of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s communities. To achieve this, we have decided to decrease the amount of space we devote in each issue to content obtained from the Associated Press. The biggest AP stories will still garner space on our pages, but this change will allow our staff members to direct more of their efforts toward produc­ing and editing original Observer con­tent. 
The change should also give the paper a more streamlined feel while keeping the focus on stories that directly affect you, our readers. We want to be your first and best source for Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s news, and by freeing up some of our key resources, we believe this change can help us achieve that goal. 
Additionally, we are working to improve and develop our online con­tent, starting with blogs, podcasts and video this fall. Whether it’s student government or football, we believe many of the topics we cover are con­ducive to these online features that will allow our writers to give more of the insight they gain by following these beats on a daily basis. 
We’re excited to produce content that will supplement our print edition and give our readers a reason to check out ndsmcobserver.com. If you have ideas for improving the website or want to hear more about our online plans, e-mail me and stay tuned in the coming weeks. 
Thanks again for reading The Observer. We’re looking forward to an exciting year, and we hope to hear from you soon. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

Due to a copy editing error, in the Aug. 21 edition of The Observer, it read "The applicant pool was less competi­tive than previous years." It should have read, "The appli­cant pool was less competitive in previous years." Saint Mary's has seen a decrease in the number of students who agree to go to Saint Mary's after receiving their let­ters of acceptance. The Observer regrets this error.. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WILL NOTRE DAM ’S FOOTBALL R CORD BE THIS S ASON? 





Brandon Saia  Mackin Bannon  Rachel Cotton  Stephanie Prince  Tierney Roche  
freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  sophomore  
Morrissey  Sorin  Pangborn  Lewis  Pangborn  
“Undefeated  “9-3.”  “Notre Dame  “Undefeated.”  “Undefeated.”  
season.”  will win 10  

games.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

DAN JACOBS//The Observer Thousands of students, faculty, staff and their families come together at the annual University picnic on DeBartolo Quad Tuesday. Dining Halls closed to distribute a cookout-style meal to attendees. Entertainment included a live band, clowns and childrens’ games. 
OFFBEAT 
Man realizes he was hit with bullet five years later 
BERLIN — Police say a man living in Germany was shot in the back of his head, but that it took him five years to realize it. Police said Tuesday that the 35-year-old man was hit by a .22-caliber bullet in the western town of Herne as he was out in the street partying and drunk on New Year’s Eve five years ago. 
They say the man recalled receiving a blow to the head, but told them he didn’t seek medical assistance at the time. 
The bullet did not pene­trate the skull, and police say the Polish man only went to see a doctor recently when he felt a lump on the back of his head. An X-ray showed an object under his skin, and doctors operated and found the projectile. 
Police say it may have been a stray bullet fired by a reveler in celebra­tion. 
Pennsylvania woman accuses raisins for probation violation 
EASTON, Pa. — A Pennsylvania woman says she wasn’t raising a glass, just raisins. Fifty­nine-year-old Judy Russo is accused of violating her probation by drinking and blames gin-soaked raisins she used to treat her arthritis. 
A Northampton County judge sentenced Russo this month to time behind bars after she failed a urine test. Her attorney filed papers Monday say­ing she turned to boozy berries because conven­tional medication doesn’t work. 
Attorney Jason Jenkins said his client has learned her lesson and asked that her sentence be reduced to probation or time served. Jenkins says Russo also has lung cancer. 
She had been on proba­tion after pleading no 
c o n t e s t  t o  a  s t a l k i n g  
charge.  
Information  compiled  

from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday 

IN BRIEF 
Selections from the William McGraw Photography Collection will be on display at 10 a.m. today in the O’Shaughnessy Galleries II and III in the Snite Museum of Art. 
Opening Mass for the aca­demic year will be held in the O’Laughlin Auditorium at 11 
a.m. today at Saint Mary’s College. 
The Global Health Colloquium: “‘A New World Order of Heart Disease: Trying to Telescope the Transition in India”‘ will begin at 4 p.m. today. The colloquium will be held in 283 Galvin Life Sciences Building. 
“‘Non-equilib rium Statistical Mechanics: a growing frontier of ‘pure and applied’ theoretical physics”‘ will be held at 4 p.m. today in 118 Nieuwland Science Building 
“‘Cymbeline”‘ will be pre­sented by Shakespeare at Notre Dame today at 7:30 
p.m. The performance will be held at the Decio Mainstage Theatre. Tickets cost $12 to $35 and can be purchased at http://shakespeare.nd.edu. 
Campus Ministry will be holding a meet and greet in the Student Center Atrium at Saint Mary’s College tomor­row. The meet and greet will begin at 11:30 a.m. 
“‘Even Fridays” Family Swim and Assessment will be held at 5:30 p.m. in the Rockne Memorial Building Friday. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@gmail.com 
Saturday Sunday 


Wednesday, August 25, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 3 page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, August 25, 2010 





ND continues renovations 
By JOSEPH McMAHON 
Associate News Editor 
Construction on a number of buildings around campus — including a new ice hockey arena and the Institute for Educational Initiatives — went as planned this summer, and the University expects to complete the projects on time, Executive Vice President John Affleck-Graves said. 
“Those are the two buildings that have gone really well,” he said. Affleck-Graves said he expected the hockey rink to be completed in October 2011, while the Institute for Educational Initiatives is “well underway” and will be finished in April 2010. 
“Everything is continuing that is funded,” he said. 
The University’s policy is not to begin construction on any proj­ect until 100 percent of the funds have been pledged by donors. The policy helped save the University from having a handful of half-completed projects dur­ing the economic downturn. 
Affleck-Graves said the University is currently in fundraising mode for several large projects and they are close to closing the funding on the Executive Education Center. 
“That will probably be the next big project we do,” he said. 
The University is also planning on erecting a social sciences building, a multidisciplinary research building, two new dorms and a student activity center as part of the long-term strategic plan. 
Affleck-Graves said the student activity center would be “kind of a mix between Stepan and LaFortune.” 
“There would be some spaces for clubs to have meeting rooms but there would also be a big open space,” he said. 

Affleck-Graves said the University is also working on a cancer research center called Harper Hall that will be part of the Indiana University — South Bend Medical School. 
The University also worked on some smaller renovation proj­ects over the summer including making changes to Stanford, Keenan and Lewis. 
“Over the summer we com­pletely renovated Stanford and Keenan — redid the bathrooms, changed some of the room lay­outs, repainted it,” Affleck-Graves said. 
Affleck-Graves said the University also completed a $15 million renovation of the old Law School building and continued working on updating Notre Dame Stadium. 
“We take out all the seats we repair the concrete and we seal it,” he said. “So that project went ahead this summer and we will be ready for football season.” 

Senior kickoff held to reunite class members 


The Stadium renovations have been ongoing for the past four summers and will be completed next summer. 
“We will do the last phase of that next summer,” he said. 
The University also did land­scaping work after a storm in June felled several trees along Notre Dame Avenue. 
“We lost some big trees in a storm in June, so we continue to plant trees,” Affleck-Graves said. 
At this time the University has no plans to demolish any build­ings on campus, including Stepan Center. 
“I think we will continue to use Stepan,” Affleck-Graves said. “Stepan is actually a quite well-used building on campus.” 
However, in the long-term, Stepan “will probably have to come down” because of prob­lems the University has had with the roof and other structural issues, Affleck-Graves said. 

Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
As the members of the Class of 2011 settle into their final year at Notre Dame, the senior class offi­cers and the Career Center have collaborated to present this year’s Senior Class Kickoff. 
The event, which will be held today in Stepan Center, features a free barbecue, that includes a vegetarian option on request, a cash bar with beer and wine, a special appearance by Notre Dame athletics and numerous outdoor games including beach volleyball, horseshoes and corn-hole. 
In addition, seniors who attend the event and register with the 
Career Center will be able to enter their name into a prize drawing for a chance to win a 32-inch Samsung LCD TV, assorted Notre Dame apparel and Notre Dame football tickets, among other prizes. 
Cath Flynn, senior class 
vice president, said the main goal of the event is to reunite mem­bers of the senior class before the school year gets into full swing. 
“We hope the event will bring friends together and pump every­one up for a great year as we grace campus for our last year together,” Flynn said. 
While the most obvious pur­pose of the event is socializing with classmates, the Kickoff also provides seniors with an opportu­nity to meet advisors from the Career Center and begin net­working for all postgraduate opportunities, including careers, graduate school and service opportunities. 
“We want to give seniors a heads up about things that are happening this fall related to career planning,” Anita Rees, an associate director of the Career Center, said. “We are also excited about this year because there are small signs that the postgraduate opportunity search may be a little easier this year.” 
Seniors will have several net­working opportunities available to them at the Kickoff, including meeting representatives from the event’s six corporate sponsors: KPMG, PricewaterhouseCoopers, 
“We hope the event will bring friends together and pump everyone up for a great year as we grace campus for our last year together.” 
Cath Flynn senior class vice president 
Accenture, General Mills, Ernst & Young and Raytheon. 
In addition to cor­porate networking opportunities, Mike Hebbeler of the Center for Social Concerns will have information for sen­iors about postgrad­uate service oppor­tunities. 
According to Flynn and Rees, both the senior class and the Career Center are 
looking forward to the event because it would not have been possible without the help of each group. Both groups also antici­pate working together in the future. 
“The Career Center looks for­ward to working with the Class of 2011 wherever their careers take them,” Rees said. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 


Wednesday, August 25, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 5 

Knighted 
continued from page 1 
referred to as “Il Cavaliere” and when I hear the term, I just kind of smile to myself and chuckle away at the irony of politics,” Prebys said. 
The title is a sign of great respect in Italian society, Prebys said. 
“I am thrilled at the honor that recognizes international cultural exchange as a goal for Italian soci­ety and recognizes my work at the university level in trying to sustain this goal,” Prebys said. 
Prebys was awarded for her service to the nation through her committed career in international education. 
The knighthood recognizes Prebys’ contributions in the field of international cultural exchange on the university level, especially through the founding and develop­ment of the Association of American College and University Programs in Italy (AACUPI) over the past 35 years. 
Prebys is president of the AACU­PI and therefore represents 25,000 North American students studying in Italy in any given year in 150 academic programs. As president, she has designed and passed legislation through the Italian Parliament in regards to North American study abroad in Italy. 
Her other work promoting cul­tural exchanges between the United States and Italy include serving on the Italian Board of Trustees to the Fulbright Commission for Educational and Cultural Exchange between the United States of America and Italy from 1992 through 2002. 
She was chair of the Fellowship Selection Committee from 1996 to 2000. 
This is not Prebys’ first time receiving recognition for her work for education between the United States and Italy. 
At the College’s Sesquicentennial Convocation in 1994, Saint Mary’s awarded her with the President’s Medal for her contributions to the Rome Study Abroad Program. 
Prebys was living in Italy doing research after graduating from Saint Mary’s. When Saint Mary’s contacted her to assist them in founding the Rome Program. She has been working with the pro­gram since 1969. 
Prebys has also been awarded a doctorate in Letters honoris causa in 2003 and the President’s Medal in 2009 for her leadership with AACUP, both from John Cabot University in Rome. 
The United States Embassy to the Republic of Italy recognized her work with a Certificate of Appreciation “for work promoting international educational exchange and commitment to strengthening the bonds of friend­ship between the United States and Italy” in 2008. 
Prebys is an advocate for inter­national education traveling wide­ly and lecturing, in both English and Italian, on international edu­cation and on the Italian literature. 
She has published articles and books, in English and Italian, and her latest titled “Educating in Paradise: 30 Years of Realities and Experiences of North American Colleges and Universities in Italy” was published by Centro Stampa 2P and released in Florence in 2008. 

Contact Megan Loney at mloney01@saintmarys.edu 
Textbook 
continued from page 1 
by renting their textbooks instead of buying them. The Rent-A-Text program also saves students from having to worry about buyback values and selling their books at the end of each semester, she said. 
Students are able to make light markings in the books that they rent, but they must be conservative, Soler said. 
“The Bookstore has expressed their interest in making the program work, and helping students stay fiscally sound. In other words, they are going to do their best to make sure that students are treated fairly in the return process,” she said. “I am not aware of any strict rule, but obviously there are expectations for respecting the property and returning books.” 
During the program’s inau­gural semester, 35 percent of the textbooks sold at the book­store will be available to rent, Soler said. 
“I would really like to see student government take a more active role in getting pro­fessors to support this pro­gram,” she said. “They have the ability to help save students a lot of money on textbooks.” 
Soler said that if professors can commit to using a textbook for at least four semesters in a row, then the book could become rentable. This 
“There are some books which I can only get through the Bookstore to begin with and the new rental system saves me from putting out a lot of money for them,” she said. “It also elimi­nates the diffi­
means  that  “The Bookstore has  culties and wor­ 
even cus­tomized text­books, which  expressed their interest in making  ries associated with selling books back at  
many profes­sors are now using, could eventually be  the program work, and helping students stay fiscally sound. In  the end of the semester.” Elish said she was able to rent  
rented instead of bought, she said. “I think it’s  other words, they are going to do their best to make sure that  books for her theology class, as well as her college seminar.  
great to tangi­ students are treated  “It’s  such  a  
bly see how stu­dent govern­ment plays a  fairly in the return process.”  relief to know I can just turn the books back  
role in student  in  when  I’m  
life,” Soler said.  Catherine Soler  done  with  
“The Rent-A-Text program is definitely a  student body president  them,” she said. “Overall, I think it’s a great pro- 
work  in  gram  and  I  
progress though  hope it can be  

and we want student feedback expanded in the coming years.” to see how we can improve Students interested in renting upon it.” textbooks can register to do so 
Katie Elish, a sophomore psy-on the Hammes Notre Dame chology major, said the Rent-A-Bookstore website. Text program has made text­book shopping much more Contact Emily Schrank at affordable. eschrank@nd.edu 



page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, August 25, 2010 

Mass 
continued from page 1 
Holy Spirit says to us. 
“So much in our world and nation is about achieving goals and solving problems, that we risk becoming our own master,” Jenkins said. “Notre Dame especially is a place where we should make time for quiet reflection and prayer.” 
During the Mass, students and faculty offered petitions in Chinese, French, Swahili, Irish, Italian and Spanish. 
University Provost Thomas Burish delivered closing remarks after Communion. 
“A University is a place of conversation, a place where people come to seek the truth together,” he said. “I wish to welcome back those returning to the conversation.” 
Burish also spoke about the Notre Dame family and entrust­ed new students with the task of carrying on this wonderful tra­dition and keeping it alive for others. 
“I hope you all learn what this place is about,” he said. 
The Mass closed with the tra­ditional singing of the Alma Mater. 
“It really is a great way to start the year,” sophomore Kara Ryan said. “It reminds us of why we are here, who we are among and what it means to be a member of the Notre Dame family.” 


Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 
SaintMary’smakes top 100 colleges 
Observer Staff Report 
Saint Mary’s has come in 93 out of 250 schools on 
U.S. News and World Report ’s list of “Best National Liberal Arts Colleges.” 
President Carol Ann Mooney created the College’s Strategic Plan, and included that she would like to see Saint Mary’s listed among some of the best colleges in the country. 
“We know that national rankings are important to our incoming students and their families. I am very pleased that we are ranked in the top 100, ” Mooney said in a press release. 
Mooney started her pres­idency in 2004, and made it one of her goals to have the College recognized in national rankings, accord­ing to a press release. This is the fourth consecu­tive year Saint Mary’s has been on the list. 
“Students graduate from Saint Mary’s with an edu­cation that challenges their minds, awakens their imaginations, and instills in them the desire to leave the world a better place,” Mooney said in a release. 
Peer assessment, gradu­ation and retention rates, faculty resources, student selectivity, financial resources and alumni giv­ing are considered while determining the rankings. 



Wednesday, August 25, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 7 

The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 8 Wednesday, August 25, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Pat Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh 

NEWS EDITOR: Laura McChrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: 
Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpnt.1@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 djacobs1@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
Islamic Center a step in the right 
When the dust and debris from the World Trade Center towers had settled in New York City, the beautifully archi­tected and historically significant St. Paul Chapel acted as a safe haven for firefighters, con­struction work-
Alex Coccia 
ers, police offi­cers and others 
Shard of Glass
in the area, and as the source of monumental acts of charity. Across the country and even the world, mourners and emotional supporters joined together in a way that America, in its over 200-year his­tory, had never seen. And St. Paul Chapel stood as the symbol of a unified nation, one that would not tolerate the atrocities of terrorism. It was dubbed “the little chapel that stood.” Some gave credit to God, and so religion fiercely entered the playing field. After all, it was because of religion and a perceived lack of moral competence that caused the terrorists to target America, wasn’t it? 
“God Bless America” gained new meaning, as the song itself was sung more often than ever. The unification of the nation was growing, but as with many unifications of the majority, a small minority is further ostracized. Out of ignorance, fear, anger and hatred, American xenophobia rose monumentally. The Arab Anti-Discrimination Committee documented over 700 reported hate crimes only one month after the attacks. Reprisal killings by “patriotic Americans” took place in California, Texas and Arizona. After the towers fell, there often was no longer a distinction made between Muslim extremists who hijacked the planes and Muslims who had been liv­ing as good citizens of the United States for over thirty years. Americans lived in fear of another terrorist attack, and Middle Eastern-Americans lived in fear of Christian America’s reprisals. 
Now, almost nine years after the hor­rific day, it has been proposed that an Islamic cultural center be built a few blocks away from the site Ground 
direction 
Zero. This possibility outrages many Americans, who believe that it dishon­ors the lives of the three thousand who died from the terrorist attacks. In a recent Quinnipiac Poll, 52 percent of New Yorkers surveyed opposed the Islamic center, and 31 percent sup­ported it. The planned Islamic Center is two blocks north from the site of Ground Zero, but the idea of any sort of Islamic prayer center, mosque or not, gets deep under many citizens’ skin. Capturing the disgust of many Americans, a Republican Political Action Committe internet advertise­ment proclaims, “This ground is sacred. Where we weep, they rejoice.” Where we weep, they rejoice. This simple statement illustrates the xeno­phobia and alienation still present in the convictions of many Americans. 
The Islamic cultural center will be a symbol, just as St. Paul’s is one today. If it is built, the proponents will view it as a symbol of America’s fostered tol­eration for the world’s religions, an oasis of inter-faith dialogue, an appre­ciation of the beauty and tradition in Islamic heritage. If it is built, the oppo­nents will view it as a symbol of dese­cration of the lives of the nearly three thousand who died, and a figurehead of a deteriorating patriotism in a growingly diverse America. If it is built, it will be a symbol, but of what depends on your interpretation. 
When Ronald Takaki wrote “A Different Mirror: A History of Multicultural America” in 1994, he surely did not imagine the complex problem of xenophobia that would arise because of heinous attacks on the United States. He does, however, view the diversity of America as “an opportunity to open American minds.” What is needed, he writes, is “to step back in order to see the rich and com­plex portrait they [different cultures] compose. What is needed is a fresh angle.” The mirror seems like an appropriate metaphor for the debate over the Islamic center. In his provoca­tive work “Cosmopolitanism: Ethics in a World of Strangers”, Kwame Anthony Appiah speaks about a shat­tered mirror as a metaphor for truth: “each shard of which reflects one part of a complex truth from its own partic­ular angle ... You will find parts of the truth (along with much error) every­where and the whole truth nowhere. The deepest mistake … is to think that your little shard of mirror can reflect the whole.” The debate over the Islamic center, as with most debates, is about perception — perception for the families of the victims of 9/11, percep­tion of the world towards America, perception of the minority towards the majority, and vice versa. Both Takaki and Appiah are correct. Away from the dust of the towers, a fresh angle is needed to understand the cultural importance for Muslim and American culture of the proposed Islamic center. Those who view the center as a dis­honor to the families of the victims are not seeing the whole picture, only their shard of glass. Sally Regenhard, a mother of a firefighter who died in the towers, was interviewed by Newsweek, admitting that while she knows the Muslims involved in the building of the Islamic center are not the same as the Islamic extremists who hijacked the planes, “It’s a perception thing.” Regenhard is absolutely correct. It is a perception thing. 
The building of an Islamic cultural center with a swimming pool, a gym, an exhibition space, conference rooms, a day care, senior center, an auditori­um and prayer room would be an enormous step for this divided country. It would be one step in the right direc­tion of cleaning up the pieces of the shattered mirror of ignorance, fear, anger and hatred that so consumed the American public following the attacks. And it would be one step in the right direction of taking a fresh look at the importance of cultural diversity, religious toleration, and reli­gious conversation in America. 
Alex Coccia is a freshman. He can be contacted at acoccia @nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Interested in working for The Observer? Attend our open house Sunday, August 29, in the basement of South Dining Hall. 

News Sports 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Ashley Charnley Douglas Farmer Alicia Smith Chris Allen 
Graphics Scene 
Sofia Iturbe Jordan Gamble 
“Courage is saying, "Maybe what “Our imagination is the only limit to
Viewpoint 
I'm doing isn't working; maybe I 

what we can hope to have in thePatricia should try something else.” 
future.” 
Fernandez 
Anna Lappe Charles F. Kettering U.S. author U.S. inventor 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Wednesday, August 25, 2010 page 9 
These are a few of my favorite things 
Although I’ve listened to a fair amount of so-called “classic” pop music, I don’t quite consider myself a music snob. When I’m driving in a car with other people, and whatever Jason DeRulo has smeared upon Brooks Smith the airwaves lately comes on, I 
King of pop
snicker audibly. I’ve been known to criticize the lyrics of many an innocent and unas­suming song. I am merciless about rip­ping on certain types of music — my blind spots include metal, country, anything that fuses rap or hip-hop with rock, Christian (although I love Prince’s “The Cross” notwithstanding) and, of course, Glee covers. 
In compensation for this poor atti­tude on my part, I’m providing a list of albums that I really dig, so that other people can make cruel and mean-spir­ited jokes at the expense of my musical taste. 
Elliott Smith -“XO.” This album is super depressing when you first hear it, but it never stops getting better. Every tune is an earworm, every lyric indelible. A perfect complement to general melancholy. 
Weezer – “Pinkerton.” When I first heard this album, I was embarrassed on behalf of Rivers Cuomo. I hated it, absolutely. But over time his candid, awkward admissions and painfully stilted slang — from diary reading to an Asian fetish to the “shakin’ booty” deployed non-ironically — cease to be off-putting and start to genuinely tug at one’s heartstrings, like the look on a puppy’s face when it has an accident on the rug. And he successfully hooks a chorus around the phrase “I’m dumb, she’s a lesbian.” Genius? 
XTC – “Skylarking.” Hipster cred! No, this album is great almost front to back — dig ‘Grass’ and ‘Season Cycle.’ ‘1000 Umbrellas’ is the second-best chamber-pop song ever written, after “Eleanor Rigby.” Without these guys Grizzly Bear wouldn’t exist, but don’t hold it against them. The “Pet Sounds” of the 80s. 
The Beatles – “Sgt. Pepper’s.” Rockcrits love “Revolver,” average Joes gravitate towards “Abbey Road,” and I’m partial to the goofy “White Album” myself, which contains “Happiness Is A Warm Gun,” their best song (that drum entrance!). But none of those albums have “Fixing A Hole,” “Getting Better,” “Lucy in the Sky With Diamonds,” “With A Little Help From My Friends,” “Being For The Benefit of Mr. Kite,” “Lovely Rita” … I’m ram­bling, aren’t I? 
Love – “Forever Changes.” Listen to it twice front-to-back. Thank me later. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

A duty to reject 
Like most young alumni, we have been contacted by our Alma Mater with requests for financial support. While we cherished our time at the University, and would like to support its endeavors, we feel we must reject these requests and would like to share our reasoning. 
Over the past 13 years, tuition at Notre Dame has risen at 228 percent of inflation. With tuition increases sky­rocketing in both good years and times like the present, where the average family has actually become poorer, we feel a misguided policy is being pur­sued. 
The Administration claims that other “peer” universities are also raising rates, so they must follow suit. However, since in continually raising their rates these universities are acting contrary to their long term interests, it is foolish for Notre Dame to follow their lead. As tuition rates increase, the bur­den on students will increase, and while the most needy will continue to be fully supported and the rich will continue to be able to bear the cost, those of moderate means will be slowly squeezed out. Inevitably, some bright students will be forced to pursue a less rigorous education in order to avoid the resultant high levels of debt. This monetization of eduction is clearly harmful to both society, and to the uni­versities involved, whose level of schol­arship will suffer. The benefit of improved ranking and prestige is not worth the cost to our student body. Notre Dame should reject this self-destructive course of action, and become an example for other institu­tions, instead of joining them in their folly. 
Notre Dame is a Catholic university, and as such has a special mission. In the book of Hebrews, we read advice instructing the early church how it can best fulfill its mission, advice we feel all Christians institutions should follow if they are to fulfill theirs: “Be ye free from the love of money.” Can any insti­tution which continuously exacts more and more from a young and naive group really say in good conscience that it has fulfilled this commandment? We hope so, but we fear not. 
Jesse Laeuchli Bryan Lowery 
alumni 
Class of 2007 
May 30 

Thank you to the Bengal Bouts community 
A big thank you to Ashley Mensch, Mark Weber, Dmytro Aponte, and the Bengal Bouts community for coordinating Bengal Bouts’ thoughtful donation to the fundraiser for the family of Bengal Bouts alum Geoff Spiess. The contribution of Bengal Bouts merchandise helped make the silent auction a success in assisting with medical expenses. The Bengal Bouts organization is an amazing family with true heart. 
Thank you again. 
Elizabeth McGrath 
alumna 
Class of 2007 
Aug. 30 
Prince – “Purple Rain.” Duh? Hardly. This album sounds terrible and makes no sense. That is, until you realize it’s rewiring your entire conception of pop music. Even the weird melody that hooks “Computer Blue” improves with acquaintance. It took me a year to fully appreciate this album. Note to readers: Please don’t remind me that the Foo Fighters covered “Darling Nikki,” which deserved a far better fate. 
Michael Jackson – “Bad.” “Off The Wall” had no filler, “Thriller” was “Thriller,” but this is where he reached new heights of beautiful schlock. Four words: “Man In The Mirror.” 
The Wrens – “The Meadowlands.” Depression and failure go arena-rock. A great autumn album. 
Fleetwood Mac – “Rumours.” You love this album and you don’t even know it yet. 
Bill Withers – “Still Bill.” Contains his greatest hits, “Use Me” and “Lean On Me.” The rest is pretty good too, with “Who Is He (And What Is He To You)?” standing above the crowd. 
Massive Attack – “Blue Lines.” A great late-night album, almost great enough to make me reconsider reggae. Honorable mention: “Mezzanine.” 
Violent Femmes – “Violent Femmes.” The great comedy album about teen angst Adam Sandler will never make, though at times it sounds like he’s the frontman. Starts with a 1-2-3-4 punch. 
The Rapture – “Echoes.” Like “Purple Rain,” it sounds so wrong… but feels so right. The terrible tuneless singing becomes immensely endearing on repeated listens, and the grooves are to die for. Possibly the best “Metal Box/Second Edition” rip in existence. Probably the only “Metal Box/Second Edition” rip in existence. And at lucky number 13 albums, I’ll end my list. 
I can already hear your disappointed screams. “But those are all incredibly good albums with broad appeal and universal acclaim!” you whine. “Where’s the juicy stuff? What about your guilty pleasures? Surely there are a few skeletons rattling about in the old closet!” Of course there are, dear readers; but that’s between me and my iPod, which will never reveal that I have a little dance to Shaggy’s “Boombastic,” perfectly imitate the chorus of “Ridin’ Solo,” or know all the lyrics to “Party in the U.S.A.” and “Wannabe” (by the Spice Girls, folks). 
For that, you’ll need to see me at the Backer. 
Brooks Smith is a senior. He can be contacted at bsmith26 @nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
UWIRE 
Why college? 
“You are probably not that good a rapper. Maybe you are the next Lil Wayne, but probably not, in which case you need to stay in school,” said President Obama in an unusually pedestrian manner to a Daily Barometer crowd of 
Editorial Board 
youngsters. Stay in 
Daily Barometer
school. One of those unques­tioned pearls of wisdom instilled in our psyche by our parents, teachers and presidents rivaling other equally, and unquestionable aphorisms such as “don’t do drugs.” 
But in times of hardship, when the economy is slumping and students with college degrees are no longer guaranteed jobs upon graduation, staying in school, especially college, may seem to some a frivolous waste of money. 
Why send your kids to college for four (probably more) years and spend tens of thousands of dollars when they can get a job or start a business right out of high school? 
The answer isn’t easy, and it’s less a tangible asset than it is an intangible one. (Some studies found that if you invest the money that would have otherwise been spent on college the lifetime earnings gap between college graduates and high school graduates virtually disappears – more a hypo­thetical situation than one based in reality.) 
So, for all you parents out there roaming around campus this summer with your eager-eyed kids, doubting the point of spending your life savings on four plus years of parties, booze, drugs and unprotected sex for your presumably innocent children is only natural. But don’t fret; chances are they’ve already done those things anyway (kidding of course), and there are reasons that go beyond the stereotype of college as an extended stay at a hedonistic resort for 18-to 22-year-olds. 
But first, let’s address this “start your own business” idea. Expecting your 18-year-old to start a successful business of their own after high school is almost up there with believ­ing in alien abductions. Sure, they both may happen and lessons could be learned, but does anyone know someone who was, or did? 
This isn’t the first half of the 20th century anymore. Kids, now mostly deprived of true world-altering hard­ships (like the Great Depression and world wars), not to mention victims of coddling parents, take longer to grow up, and simply don’t have the capaci­ty to progress beyond service-industry or unskilled labor jobs on their own. Sure, there are exceptions, but this is our opinion; we were there, now we are here, and we are smarter, wiser and grateful that we went from there to here. 
Though there are many alternatives to college, and the cost of education is simply ridiculous in a democratic society that thrives on educated citi­zens, there are things you learn here that can’t be learned by reading books. 
College is important, and next week we will go into the reasons why (for one you learn how to be concise … maybe we slept through that class), but for now, enjoy our campus. 
This column first appeared in the August 5 edition of the Daily Barometer the daily publications serving the Oregon State University 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

The Observer 
Scene

page 10 Wednesday, August 25, 2010 

SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scene

Wednesday, August 25, 2010 page 11 

SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, August 25, 2010 
MLB 

Damon rejects Red Sox offer to rejoin team, stays in Detroit 
Associated Press 
DETROIT — Johnny Damon is staying in Detroit. 
The 36-year-old outfielder decided to pass up a chance to return to the Boston Red Sox, rejecting their waiver claim and choosing to remain with the Tigers. 
“These guys really like me here,” Damon said Tuesday, adding he spoke to each of his teammates individually to be sure he was wanted in the Tigers’ clubhouse. 
Damon was popular in Boston when he helped the Red Sox win the 2004 World Series to end an 86-year drought. With his long hair and beard, he was part of the group of Red Sox players who called themselves the “Idiots.” 
He fell out of favor, however, with many Boston fans when he later became a free agent and joined the rival New York Yankees. 
“Considering the buzz that Johnny created for many years here, one of the original ‘Idiots’ of the World Series champions here, I thought it would be a great idea. But sometimes the ideas of others are not the same as the person who actually has to be in the situation,” Red Sox outfielder Mike Cameron. 
Damon’s contract gives him veto power over trades to all but eight teams. Because the Red Sox weren’t one of those clubs, he was able to block the move. 
Damon said he was leaning toward staying put from the beginning. He texted former Red Sox teammate Jason Varitek and talked to David Ortiz, and both tried to convince him to return to Boston. 
“They told me they wanted a spark,” Damon said. 
Said Varitek: “I reached out to him, as a friend, as a teammate, and ultimately, he’s obviously had some decisions to make.” 
“I can only speak for what Johnny has meant here and what he has done as a player and what he is as a teammate. He would have been a big addi­tion to our team with what he can do,” he said. 
The banged-up Red Sox began the day 5½ games behind New York and Tampa Bay in the AL East. Detroit started 10 games behind Minnesota in the AL Central and far out of wild-card con­tention. 
“This game’s tough enough and when you’re in a position and you’re in a city and you’re in a place where you want to be, a place where you’re happy, there’s no real reason of doing that,” Boston closer Jonathan Papelbon said. “I’ve always admired Johnny since I came here in ‘05 and he was one of the players that took me under his wing and showed me the big leagues. I wish him nothing but the best.” 
“I’m not surprised because he’s in a situation where he’s happy and if he’s happy, why not stay? If he’s not happy, obvi­ously he would have left.” 

Damon is hitting .272 with seven home runs and 41 RBIs in 111 games. This is his first sea­son in Detroit. 
“I feel like we’re not out of it yet,” he said. “At least we can make some kind of run.” 
Damon said he’d like to play in Detroit next year, too, but “there’s no guarantee.” 
Tigers star Miguel Cabrera welcomed Damon’s decision. 
“It’s good for us. He stays here and we can play more together and see what happens. We can do a lot of things,” Cabrera said. “We can win more games, we can get more support in the lineup. If he stays here for some reason, it’s because he likes it here, he believes in us. That’s good.” 
Said Damon: “I’ve said Miguel Cabrera was the best hitter I’ve ever seen and I wanted to see it for a whole year.” 
Damon talked to Detroit gen­eral manager Dave Dombrowski on Monday night before he made his decision and spoke to assistant GM Al Avila and manager Jim Leyland on Tuesday. 
“I told him to do what your heart tells you,” Leyland said. “Don’t worry about the Detroit Tigers, Boston Red Sox, Jim Leyland, Terry Francona or anybody else.” 
NFL 

Jets‘ Mangold becomes highest paid center 
requested anonymity because come along and blow me out of Johnson and general manager sated that way, and should be.” 
Associated Press 
the team did not announce the water anyway, and that’s A-Mike Tannenbaum approached Coach Rex Ryan held 

FLORHAM PARK, N.J. — Nick details of the deal. OK in my book.” him two weeks ago about com-Mangold out of team drills in Mangold got the big deal he “Signed, sealed and deliv-Meanwhile, Revis missed his pleting a deal. practice Monday, knowing his was looking for and a new label ered,” a smiling Mangold said. 24th day since the team report-“I had resigned myself to the star player was about to final-that might make Darrelle Revis The All-Pro center was ed for training camp while in a fact that it wasn’t getting done ize his deal a few hours later. envious. scheduled to earn $3.3 million bitter contract dispute. He coming into camp,” Mangold “He’s like, ‘What?’ and I’m 
The New York Jets’ two-time in the final year of his five-year wants to become the league’s said. “Now that it is done, I like, ‘Yes, stay out. You’re going Pro Bowl center became the rookie deal. The contract sur-highest-paid cornerback, a dis-haven’t really wrapped my to get this deal signed,’” Ryan highest-paid player at his posi-passes the one inked last year tinction that belongs to head around it yet, but I’m very said. “I’d hate for him to step in tion Tuesday, signing a seven-by St. Louis center Jason Oakland’s Nnamdi Asomugha, excited that it is.” a hole or something like that.” year deal with the New York Brown, whose five-year con-who signed a three-year, $45.3 Mangold was a first-round Mangold appreciated the ges-Jets that could be worth up to tract was worth $37.5 million, million extension last offsea-pick out of Ohio State in 2006, ture, especially with the threat $55 million. including $20 million guaran-son. and quickly became regarded of injury anytime a player steps 
“To be able to say, ‘the high-teed. “That’s on some other peo-around the league as one of the on the field. est-paid center’ is very nice to “It wasn’t a sticking point and ple,” Mangold said of Revis’ sit-game’s best at his position. He “As close as it was, I’d shoot hear,” Mangold said. “It worked I’m very fortunate that the Jets uation. “I’m not getting anchored an offensive line last myself if something happened,” out well for both sides.” decided to go that route,” involved in that one.” season that paved the way for he said. “I’ve never gone 
The deal includes over $22 Mangold said of being the Unlike Revis, Mangold report-the NFL’s top rushing offense. through it before, never gone million in guarantees against league’s highest-paid center. ed for training camp despite “It’s a huge move for the through a situation of having a injury, a person with knowl-“I’m very appreciative and being disappointed with the organization,” quarterback contract right there, ready to edge of the contract told The excited to have that. I’m sure lack of progress of the negotia-Mark Sanchez said. “He’s the be signed. I just wanted to play Associated Press. The person next year some young gun will tions. He said owner Woody best. He’s going to be compen-it safe, as best I could.” 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

You know, in the ten years that I ing pillows $50. Call 574-654-3241 WEEKEND B&B FOR ND Down duvet comforter with match-DUBS’ INN 
coached, I never met anybody who ——————————————— GAMES/EVENTS 4 BR HOME
FOR SALE FOR RENT PERSONAL wanted to win as badly as I did. I'd Part-time photographer, sales asso-SLEEPS UP TO 8 ADULTS. 
do anything I had to do to increase 
Barely used Giant Cypress ST1020 All you need to know is the job’s 

ciate for JC Penney Portrait Studio, 4 bedroom 3 QUEEN, 2 SINGLE BEDS, 4 my advantage. Anybody who tried 
19” women’s silver green bicycle. 

hours flexible, 2 bath COUCHES, 3 FULL BATHS. real, and the money’s real. to block the pursuit of that advan-
Paid $500. Asking $235 OBO. Call salary depends on experience. tri-level in Arlington Heights-1 MILE FROM CAMPUS tage, I'd just push 'em out of the 

574-654-3241 

Call Jackie 5 minutes from campus. FREE MEALS AND SHUTTLE ——————————————— way. Didn't matter who they were, 
——————————————— 574-277-5638 New kitchen, bath. AVAILABLE, NON SMOKING. Welcome to campus to all the fresh-or what they were doing. But that Guitar- Jeff Hanneman 2400 fret or send resume $800/DAY. DUBS RETURNS men Alumni Dawgs. was then. electric $265 OBO. Call Keith CALLS 
Call 574-233-2973. to smp0319@lifetouch.com 574-323-6273 (574-210-4030) Get ready for a fun year. You have special talent, a gift. ——————————————— 
———————————————

—————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Wednesday, August 25, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
MLB 

Bud Selig honored with Miller Park statue 
Associated Press 
MILWAUKEE — Bud Selig worried about this day for sev­eral weeks, leading up to see­ing his statue for the first time. 
“Given the guy didn’t have much to work with because I was never confused with Clark Gable, I thought he did a mas­terful job,” Selig said at the unveiling Tuesday. “I thought he captured me really remark­ably well.” 
The former Milwaukee Brewers owner who became baseball commissioner was honored with a bronze, 7-foot statue in front of Miller Park. It was designed and produced by Brian Maughan and portrays Selig with his right arm extend­ed, his hand holding a baseball. 
The statue joined those of Robin Yount and Hank Aaron at the stadium Selig pushed to get built. 
Yount, Aaron and fellow Hall of Famers Frank Robinson, Ernie Banks and Al Kaline attended the ceremony along with more than a dozen owners and other dignitaries repre­senting the 30 clubs. Rachel Robinson, the widow of Jackie Robinson, also sat in the front row. 
“Bud Selig is my hero. He has taken baseball to a far better place than where he found it,” Aaron said. “His life teaches us to persevere, never quit and to extend your hand to help oth­ers along this journey.” 
Selig, a lifelong baseball fan who brought the Seattle Pilots to Milwaukee in 1970 and renamed them the Brewers, continued to live in his home­town after becoming commis­sioner. 
He was the interim leader in 1992 after the resignation of Fay Vincent, and became com­missioner on a full-time basis in 1998. 
Selig handed over ownership of the Brewers to his daughter, Wendy Selig-Prieb, and the franchise was sold to a group led by Los Angeles investment banker Mark Attanasio in 2005. 
Selig established interleague play and the wild card, a pair of initiatives that didn’t sit well with baseball traditionalists but likely contributed the sport’s rebound in popularity in the late 1990s. 
Home run record chases by Mark McGwire, Sammy Sosa and Barry Bonds also boosted the sport’s profile — but those players’ feats eventually would lead to perhaps the biggest test of Selig’s leadership in the wake of the steroids era. 
His attempts to explain weak­nesses in the sport’s drug test­ing policy by blaming the play­ers’ union’s inflexibility didn’t sit well with members of Congress. 
But as time has past since those hearings, some in the baseball community have called Selig the greatest com­missioner in history, and it was repeated several times during Tuesday’s celebration. 
“Believe me when I tell you, it’s not an easy job to be com­missioner of 30 different own­ers who have different needs,” Dodgers owner Frank McCourt said. “He has a vision for the game and he’s done some won­derful things for the game.” 
Besides Aaron and Yount, 20 other former Milwaukee player were on stage, including Rollie Fingers, Paul Molitor and Ted Simmons. 
During his time as owner, Selig worked relentlessly to bring a club back to Milwaukee after the Braves left in 1965. He succeed in bringing the Pilots just before the start of the 1970 season and fought again in a contentious battle with Wisconsin’s state Assembly to build a new park, one of nearly two dozen built during his tenure as commis­sioner. 
“In my respects, I see this as a tribute of a lifetime of service to my sport, my state and com­munity,” Selig said of the stat­ue. “A community in which I was born and raised and con­tinue to live. You have no idea how deeply touched I am.” 
The commissioner said chil­dren would recognize Yount and Aaron in the area in front of Miller Park, but he hoped to leave this lasting legacy when they saw the statue of the man dressed in a suit and tie. 
“I hope that one day when a child walks past that statue and says to his parent and asks, ‘Who’s that?’ the parent will say, ‘He was just a passion-ate man from Milwaukee, a youngster who just like you had a dream to make this a better place. He never lost hope and he never lost faith and through it he made baseball (and) the community a better place in which to live,’“ he said. 



page 14 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, August 25, 2010 Wednesday, August 25, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 

LPGA 

Golfer’s death ruled a suicide 
Associated Press 
LAS VEGAS — The Clark County coroner’s office ruled Tuesday that 25-year-old pro­fessional golfer Erica Blasberg’s death was a suicide. 
Blasberg died May 9 at her home in Henderson, about 15 miles southeast of the Las Vegas Strip. She was found with a plastic bag secured over her head. 
Henderson police said that while no foul play is suspected they have issued a misde­meanor arrest warrant for Dr. Thomas Hess on obstruction charges. Police said Hess, who discovered Blasberg’s body, removed items from the scene, including a suicide note. 
The contents of the note haven’t been disclosed. 
Hess turned himself into authorities, was booked into jail and released about 35 minutes later, after posting $637 in bail Tuesday afternoon, Henderson police spokesman Keith Paul said. 
David Mincavage, an assistant city attorney in Henderson, said the nonviolent misdemeanor charges against Hess carry a maximum penalty of a $1,000 fine and six months in jail. 
Mincavage said he could not comment further on the case, and Paul declined to say whether additional charges were possible. 
The coroner’s office said Blasberg died of suicide due to asphyxia, coupled with the presence of toxic levels of pre­scription medication in her sys­tem, including prescription headache, cough, pain and anti-anxiety medications. 
The drugs in Blasberg’s sys­tem included butalbital, temazepam, alprazolam, codeine, hydrocodone, and tra­madol, according to the coro­ner, but Nevada law doesn’t permit the release of details on the amounts of medication. 
“While asphyxia was the pri­mary cause of death, the pres­ence of prescription drugs in Ms. Blasberg’s system was a significant factor,” Coroner Michael Murphy said. 
A 911 call from Hess that summoned police came from the house, and Blasberg was alone when officers arrived, police have said. Blasberg’s agent said her bags were packed for a tournament in Mobile, Ala., when she was found. 
The death investigation was complicated, police said, because Hess admitted altering the scene — including the removal of the note indicating Blasberg took her own life — and he stopped cooperating with detectives. Hess hid the note and prescription medica­tions in his vehicle. 
In a 911 call obtained from police by The Associated Press, Hess says he came to the house to check on her after she didn’t leave for the tournament. 
“I called her yesterday, she was supposed to be leaving for a golf tournament but she did-n’t,” an agitated Hess said on the call. “She picked up the phone and she sounded intoxi­cated at that time.” 
Hess said Blasberg had con­sumed a “couple drinks” and was sad the night before her death, but didn’t indicate she wanted to kill herself. 
When asked by the female operator whether Blasberg was beyond resuscitation, Hess replied: “I’m a doctor.” 
But Hess didn’t say he was Blasberg’s doctor, instead say­ing he “knew her from the golf club.” 
When the operator told Hess she was sending police, she asked him to wait outside the house. 
“Try not to touch anything,” she said. 
‘Yes ma’am,’ he replied. 
Calls from The Associated Press to Blasberg’s father, Mel Blasberg, her agent Chase Callahan and Hess’ lawyer Charles Kelly were not immedi­ately returned. 
The Nevada State Board of Medical Examiners in Reno said Hess’ medical license is active and he has had no disci­plinary action or pending com­plaints. He got his license to practice in Nevada in July 2003. 
NBA 
Doctors clear Yao for basketball workouts 
Associated Press 
HOUSTON — Houston Rockets All-Star center Yao Ming is confident that he’ll be ready for the start of the regu­lar season after a team doctor declared his surgically repaired foot fully healed. 
Yao missed last season after undergoing complex surgery on his left foot in July 2009. Team doctor Tom Clanton has cleared Yao to resume basketball activi­ties. 
The Rockets had said all along that they expected Yao to play in 2010-11. Yao was still relieved when he got the official diagnosis. 
“I am very excited,” Yao said Tuesday. “I am just looking for­ward to playing a great season. I think I can count on my foot now.” 
The 7-foot-6 Yao sweated through a gray T-shirt during a vigorous workout for reporters at the Toyota Center. He mostly worked on post moves with teammate Chuck Hayes and 7­footer James Cripe, a player in the NBA’s developmental league. 
He landed awkwardly on his left foot at one point, wincing in pain. He resumed the workout a few seconds later, and said he’s less afraid to test the foot than he was two months ago, when he started running again. 
“That’s just the confidence,” Yao said. “I think everybody would have that after a foot injury, and (I’m) just still a little bit weak on that. I just need to continue to build on that. Compared to two months ago, it’s really a lot better.” 
General manager Daryl Morey says the team will be cautious with Yao and limit his minutes early in the season. Morey said Clanton’s diagnosis was a “key hurdle” in Yao’s road back. 
“It’s great news,” Morey said. “It’s what we anticipated, but until you get over these mile­stones, you’re never for sure. He looks like his old self. He still has a ways to go on his wind and things like that. But it’s just good to see him out there.” 
Early in his recovery, Yao had doubts about his future. In the month after he was told that he would likely miss the 2009-10 season, Yao said he secluded himself and hoped to find out later that the doctors had somehow made a mistake. 
“That was really a hard month for me,” Yao said. “I got a lot of phone calls from the Rockets staff, coaches, players, teammates and my friends and of course, my family will always be there to stay with me. 


page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, August 25, 2010 
NFL 

Cowboys constantly evaluating backfield 
Associated Press 
OXNARD, Calif. — Wade Phillips was talking about how players did in the last presea­son game when he brought up how well running backs Marion Barber and Felix Jones have been doing. 
Really? They combined for 17 yards on six carries against San Diego. They’re averaging 2.9 yards per carry over three preseason games. Their longest run is nine yards. 
But Phillips and running backs coach Skip Peete insist none of that matters. 
Phillips said he’s watching “the way they run, the moves they make, the power they’re running with, the decisions they’re making.” 
Peete has a similar check­list: “Does he get up in there? Is he timid? Does he have the ability to make someone miss? Does he lower his pads?” 
And by those measuring sticks, the Cowboys like what they’ve seen from their 1-2 punch in the backfield. 
“They’re running hard, they’re doing good,” Peete said Tuesday. “Obviously, you’d want to see a 10-, 12­yard average. But preseason, that doesn’t usually happen. ... In the preseason, you want to get them in shape, get them ready and then when we get to the regular season we’ll take advantage of all their tal­ents.” 
Led by Barber and Jones, the Cowboys averaged 4.8 yards per carry last season, tied for second in the NFL. Dallas was seventh in yards per game at 131.4. 
Barber got nearly twice as many carries as Jones last season, a ratio that’s likely to change this year. Jones has averaged more than six yards on every carry and reception in his two-year career, and the Cowboys want to see if he can keep that up with more action. 
Jones has gotten ready for the added workload by bulk­ing up. He’s added about seven pounds, most of it upper-body strength. 
“It’s muscle,” Peete said. “It’s not like he’s lost a step. His speed and quickness are still there. You get worried if a guy gets bigger and slower, but he hasn’t lost a step.” 
Barber got thinner, dropping about eight pounds in hopes 
of picking up speed. He weighs about the same as he did as a rookie. He also weighs less than Jones, which is odd since he’s the bruising power runner and Jones is the speedy slasher. 
“Really,” Peete said, “the weight doesn’t matter.” 
Part of the reason for the — seemingly — sluggish start is a lack of use. 
Dallas starters played one series in the preseason open­er, two series the next week and lasted nearly a half against San Diego on Saturday night. Over those three games, Barber has 25 yards on eight carries and Jones has 15 yards on six carries. The third member of their three-man crew, Tashard Choice, has 69 yards on 18 carries; his average of 3.8 yards is the best of any running back. 
“One of the things we try to do in practice every day is get ready for the season. Once we get to the preseason games, we’re a little bit more basic,” offensive coordinator Jason Garrett said. “That’s just our approach. The biggest thing we want to see in the presea­son is evaluate our players. But any time you do anything, you want to do it well. That helps develop confidence.” 
Phillips and Peete stress that in the preseason games thus far the Cowboys have been “just running plays.” That means they are calling a play and going with it regard­less of whether it’s the right call based on down, distance and the defense they’re fac­ing. Many plays wind up being doomed to fail, which is why they say it’s difficult to get an accurate read on what players are doing. 
“Right now, we’re trying to evaluate people, we’re trying to evaluate plays, we’re trying to evaluate schemes,” Peete said. “We’re installing our offense. There are a lot of dif­ferent plays to be worked on. ... We’re not scheming, say­ing, ‘OK, if they line up like this, then we’re going to do that.’” 
Still, 40 yards on 14 carries by the two prime ballcarriers is a bit suspect. 
“Preseason is not a direct indicator of how you’re going to do in the regular season,” Phillips said. “I see the run­ning backs running well. I think we’re going to be able to block for them. Would we like to do it in the preseason game, where we make 198 yards like the Saints did the last week? That would be nice. But we haven’t done that so far. 
“But I still think our running game is going to do good and those guys are going to do good.” 


Wednesday, August 25, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
Waldrum 
continued from page 20 
Junior forward Melissa Henderson scored an unassist­ed goal with 11:18 remaining to secure a 1-0 victory Friday night, as the Irish (2-0) improved to 20-2-1 all-time in season-openers. The Golden Gophers (0-1) had the edge in corner kicks, 9-5, but fell short in shots on goal by a margin of 8-4. 
The Irish had several scoring chances in the first half, includ­ing a look from the top of the penalty area off the first corner kick of the night. Freshman midfielder Mandy Laddish con­trolled the cross, but missed just high of the goal. 
“That’s a really good team,” Waldrum said. “[Minnesota] had the size on us, and they created a lot of problems out of set pieces and corner kicks. But in terms of the run and play, I didn’t think we gave them many opportunities.” 
Although the Irish logged the victory, Waldrum said his squad lacked some composure and was unable to dominate the possession game. Looking for an improved performance in the second match of the sea­son, Notre Dame struggled to control the tempo early in Sunday’s contest against UW-Milwaukee. 
Held scoreless in the first half, freshman midfielder Elizabeth Tucker sparked the offense by tallying her first col­legiate goal in the 52nd minute. Senior midfielder Rose Augustin followed with two consecutive scores to lead the squad to a 3-0 victory over the Panthers (2-1-2). 
“I thought we were outplayed by Milwaukee in the first half of the game, but in the second half we made a couple of adjustments,” Waldrum said. “I think the kids realized that if we could keep the ball, we could make them chase the game, and that’s what we did.” 
While the veterans look to pace the squad heading into the season’s toughest challenge against No. 8 Santa Clara on Sept. 3, Waldrum said the impact of the rookies has been significant. 
“We lost some key kids last year to graduation, but the freshmen this year have stepped right in,” Waldrum said. “Mandy Laddish, Elizabeth Tucker, Kecia Morway — three freshman that were played a lot this past weekend stepped in and did great. They look like they’re veteran players.” 
Waldrum attributed their seamless transition from the high school to the collegiate level to the attitude set by the veterans, especially seniors who have their eyes set on a fourth College Cup in four years. 
“I think one thing that our program has always been good at is that our standard has been so high,” Waldrum said. “Everybody knows what the expectations are, and that’s to get to a Final Four every year if we can. The young players, the day they walk in the door, they get that from the veteran play­ers.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
NFL 
Surgery will keep Rice out 
Associated Press 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. — Brett Favre’s job just got a whole lot tougher. 
Favre and the Minnesota Vikings will play the first half of the season—or more—without Pro Bowl receiver Sidney Rice, who had hip surgery this week. 
Coach Brad Childress said Tuesday that Rice had the pro­cedure in Vail, Colo., on Monday night. He couldn’t give a specific timetable for Rice’s return, but said typically it takes about eight weeks before a player can even get back to practice, let alone game action. 
“I would think (it will take) probably at least eight weeks before we’re talking about doing anything,” Childress said. 
It’s a huge blow for the Vikings, who have very little depth at receiver. Percy Harvin has struggled with migraines during the preseason, and the team signed veteran Javon Walker on Tuesday to help out. 
After catching just 45 passes during an injury-plagued first two seasons in Minnesota, Rice emerged as Brett Favre’s go-to guy in his third season with 83 catches for 1,312 yards and eight TDs. He earned his first Pro Bowl bid, though he was injured in the playoffs and did not play again. 
Favre raved about Rice’s combination of size and leaping ability, saying he felt confident throwing the ball his way even if Rice appeared to be well cov­ered. Favre’s confidence in him allowed Rice to blossom, posi­tioning himself as one of the best downfield threats in the NFC despite a lack of game-breaking speed. 
He saw three specialists in the offseason to examine his injured hip and declined to have surgery, hoping the condi­tion would heal on its own. Rice never participated in a practice during training camp, and it became apparent late last week that the injury was not improv­ing fast enough for him to be ready for the season opener against New Orleans on Sept. 9. 
Childress said all the special­ists, along with team doctors, agreed that surgery was not needed in the offseason. Rice, who is in the final year of his contract for just $550,000 this season, decided something more had to be done. 
“I can’t feel what he’s feel­ing,” Childress said. “In the end, it’s up to him whether he wanted to have that procedure or whether he could press through.” 
The surgery, first reported by the Star Tribune of Minneapolis, means Favre’s 20th season in the NFL will likely be much more challeng­ing than last year. 
In addition to Rice’s injury, Harvin has been plagued by several attacks of migraine headaches this month, the lat­est coming last week when he vomited on the field and need­ed to be taken to a hospital by ambulance. He hasn’t played in either of the first two games of the preseason and never knows when another bout will occur. 
Harvin did not practice Tuesday and Childress said he is scheduled to have more tests done and will not play until those are completed and evalu­ated. 
“He’s not going to practice until he finishes with the med­ical protocol,” Childress said. 
With Bernard Berrian the only healthy, established veter­an receiver on the roster, the Vikings turned to one of Favre’s old teammates in hopes of fill­ing the gaps. 
Walker was a first-round draft pick of the Packers in 2002, and flourished early in his career with Favre at the helm. He caught 89 passes for 1,382 yards and 12 touch­downs in 2004 to become one of the top receivers in the league. 
But Walker fell out of favor in Green Bay during a messy con­tract dispute in the summer of 2005 that drew criticism from Favre. He injured his knee the following season and has been plagued by knee and ankle injuries in subsequent years with the Raiders and Broncos. 
The 31-year-old Walker said he feels “like he’s 23” again and has no issues with Favre from their disagreement back in Green Bay. 


page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, August 25, 2010 
Neal 
continued from page 20 
unseated classmate Brian Smith at one of the outside linebacker positions in Kelly’s 3-4 defense. 
“Kerry Neal is a pretty good football player,” Kelly said. “He plays physical. He’s a very smart football player.” 
Neal, who has been close friends with Smith since the two were roommates fresh­man year, said that the duo are constantly trying to help 
one another, even though they’re fighting for the same spot.” 
“Me and Brian hang out together, crack jokes togeth­er,” Neal said. “Of course we get on the field, we’re going to compete.” 
Neal added that being ing depth chart changes, Kelly named ahead of his friend has indicated that sophomore only motivated him more. Chris Watt was in a close bat­“Brian is one of the best tle with first-year law student players on the team, so Chris Stewart at left guard. there’s no days off,” Neal After practice Tuesday, offen­said. “I’ve got sive coordina­to come with it tor Charley everyday.” Molnar said Kelly noted “It’s a very, very the two were that this line-competitive position, in a “close to backer position a dead heat.” 
and Kerry [Neal is]
may be one “Watt has 
ahead right now, but
that changes just come to between now Brian [Smith] has play everyday and Notre in practice,” 
shown a fght in him.” 
Dame’s Sept. 4 Molnar said. opener against “He is tena ­Purdue. Brian Kelly cious. He’s a 
“It’s a very, Irish coach powerful guy, very competi-and he’s not tive position,” sitting back he said. “And Kerry’s ahead and saying, ‘This job belongs right now, but Brian has to a guy that’s had it.’ He shown a fight in him.” says, ‘I want the job.’ He 
In one of the more surpris-wants to play now.” 
Notes: 
 Kelly said junior line ­backer Anthony McDonald was “doubtful” for the season opener against Purdue with a knee injury. McDonald had been battling with sophomore Carlo Calabrese for a starting inside linebacker position. 
 Kelly acknowledged that he and director of athletics Jack Swarbrick had spoken to NBC regarding the tempo of games this fall. Kelly’s no-huddle spread offense empha­sizes a quick pace, and many have complained about NBC commercial breaks disrupting gameplay. 
“There’s certainly a need for us to address it,” Kelly said. “I think we’re working with NBC to make certain that they get what they need from an advertising standpoint, but also as the network that car­ries Notre Dame, that we’re able to do the things that we need to do, as well.” 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 
Clark 
continued from page 20 
sophomore Danny O’Leary. 
“[Shipp] is not the tallest by any means, he’s not big, but when it comes to playing, he has such good skills with his feet, and he makes good deci­sions,” Clark said. “He’s the master of the ball. His aware­ness on the field is first class.” 
One more goal from UIC threatened the Irish lead, but junior goalkeeper Will Walsh who held the Flames until time expired in his first start for Notre Dame, with senior team captain and expected starting goalkeeper Philip Tuttle out for the start of the season with an injury. 
“[Walsh] is a capable deputy,” Clark said. 
The Flames are a familiar opponent for the Irish. The two teams have met on numerous occasions, including a contest in the NCAA Tournament. 



“They are always well coached, and they play a good brand of soccer and handle the ball well,” Clark said. “They gave us a good test.” 
Though the Irish proved vic­torious at the end of the night, Clark said the Irish have a few areas of the defensive portion of the game that needed improving. Three of the five defensive players graduated this past spring. 
“It’s all about getting the familiarity back again, making sure everyone’s on the same page,” Clark said. “We hope we learned some lessons, and hopefully it’ll prepare us a little bit for when the season begins in just under two weeks.” 
The Irish will spend the remainder of this week practic­ing for their second exhibition game against Ohio State Saturday. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
Semis 
continued from page 20 
college tennis this fall,” Louderback said. 
Because the outdoor season does not begin until spring, and the indoor regular sea­son doesn’t begin until late winter, the Irish have sched­uled plenty of indoor tourna­ments to prepare themselves for the grueling Big East and national schedule. 
Notre Dame will use those tournaments to experiment with different doubles pair­ings. 
“We will have to work out three new doubles teams with the loss of our seniors last year,” Louderback said. 
The Irish will need to rearrange their doubles pair­ings in a way that creates solid team chemistry and cre­ates the best opportunity to win. Gaining the best oppor­tunity to win will also hinge on Notre Dame’s seniors fill­ing leadership roles voided by Krisik, Rielley and Ciobanu. 
“Our seniors and juniors will have to take a leadership role for us to improve upon last year’s results,” Louderback said. 
The preseason rankings have not yet been released, but the Irish are expected to start the season high in the poll based off of last season’s final ranking of No. 6. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  
13  14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  23  
24  25  26  
27  28  29  30  31  
32  33  34  35  36  37  
38  39  40  41  42  
43  44  45  46  47  
48  49  50  
51  52  53  54  55  
56  57  58  59  60  61  
62  63  64  65  
66  67  68  
69  70  71  


Wednesday, August 25, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
Across 34 They're often 1 “Impression, eaten with Sunrise” painter applesauce 6 Gives the 38 Bard's “below” thumbs-up 
40 Place to put a
9 Dreamworks's budfirst animated 
42 Like J in the film alphabet
13 Site of some rock shows 43 Flirtatious one 14 End of a boast 45 See 53-Down 16 Pitcher Derek 
47 Suffix with 17 A heap Brooklyn
18 Flair 
48 Made tidy, in a 19 Subject of many wayGeorgia 
50 Bibliographic 
O'Keeffe 
abbr. 
paintings20 Disaster 51 Experience a mondegreen,
23 Skill 
e.g.
24 Woman's name meaning “weary” 54 Agenda unit in Hebrew 56 ___ carte 25 Of this world 

57 Lover's woe …27 Swelter or something30 Word before and found, literally, in 
after “for” the 4th, 5th, 8th 32 Airport info: and 11th rows of Abbr. this puzzle 
33 Maryland 62 Brass athlete, for short component 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 


64 When doubled,popular 1980s­'90s British sitcom 
65 Alexander the Great conqueredit ca. 335 B.C. 
66 Appendices withsome studies 67 SAT taker, e.g.
68 Don 
69 Genesis man 
70 Date 
71 Editors' marks 
Down 
1 Like bueno but not buena: Abbr. 2 Filmdom's Willy, 
for one 3 “Cool beans!” 4 It's ultimate 5 French cup 6 “Psst!” 7 Metric prefix 8 Pretty vistas, for
short 
9 The Greatest 
10 Singer Jones 
11 Pirouette 
12 Full of spice
15 Rope for pulling 
a sail 
21 Lacking spice
22 Mess-ups 
26 French bean? 
27 French bench 
28 Uh-Oh! ___ 
(Nabisco
product)
29 Where many a veteran has served 
31 Distinct 
33 Information superhighway
35 Make a sweater, say 
WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Puzzle by Oliver Hill 
36 “At Last” singer 49 Lower class in 55 Sends by UPS, James “1984” say 
37 Poet/illustrator 50 Manage 58 Painter Paul Silverstein 51 Protegé, for one 
59 Chip or two,52 Poem with maybe39 Rear 
approximately 
60 Real knee­41 Slow alternative 16,000 lines slapperto I-95 53 With 45-Across, 61 Bronzes 
largest city in 
44 Rip into 
California's wine 63 Video shooter, 46 Breadth country for short 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 



JEFF KNUREK
JUMBLE 
MIKE ARGIRION 


 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Wednesday, August 25, 2010 page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Unexpected shifts 
Wood challenges Allen; Neal pastSmith fornow 
By SAM WERNER 
Sports Writer 
When Brian Kelly advised media members not to “get married to a two-deep right now” at his fall camp open­ing press conference, he wasn’t kidding around. 
With every passing day, it seems like the Notre Dame depth chart enters an even deeper state of flux. 
Sophomore running back Cierre Wood, who started the fall as the fourth running back on the Irish depth chart, has risen to No. 2, Irish coach Brian Kelly said Tuesday. 
“Right now, [senior] Armando [Allen] and Cierre [Wood] have shown that they’re running one, two,” Kelly said. 

Wood, who didn’t see action in his freshman sea­son last year, said he was ready for his shot in the Irish DAN JACOBS/The Observer backfield. Sophomore running back Cierre Wood carries the ball during practice Thursday. On Tuesday, Irish 
“It’s really exciting,” he coach Brian Kelly said Wood has moved into the No. 2 running back spot on the depth chart. said. “There’s a difference between stepping on the field While Allen may be the runs. not.” knowing you’re not playing most complete of the four “I can look at one point and On the other side of the and stepping on the field and running backs, and senior basically see everything ball, a new starter has [knowing] in a couple of Robert Hughes the most around me,” Wood said. “I’m emerged at one of the out-hours [you’re] going to be physical, a quick look at not saying I have special side linebacker positions. playing. Wood’s high school film will powers or anything like that, Senior Kerry Neal has 
“I just hope I don’t faint show his uncanny ability to but I can sometimes sense back there.” find holes and break long who’s behind me and what-see NEAL/page 18 

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Irish look to get past semifinals 
By MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a Big East title and 26-4 overall record last season, the Irish look to advance past the NCAA semi­finals after falling in the same round the past two sea­sons. 
Then-No. 6 Notre Dame’s last season ended with a 4-1 loss to then-No. 8 Stanford, after falling in 2009 to then-No. 9 California 4-2 in the same round. 
Irish coach Jay Louderback said he expects Notre Dame to reach that high level of play once again. 
“We are looking for our team to continue to be one of the top 10 teams in the coun­try,” Louderback said. 
Despite the loss of three key seniors, including Cosmina Ciobanu, Colleen Rielley and 2010 ITA All ­American Kali Krisik, the Irish have a strong core of returning players as well as a number of newcomers that will look to contribute right away. 
“Half our team will be freshmen so we will need them to get the experience of 
see SEMIS/page 18 


ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

Season starts with shutouts 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Despite opening the season with several new faces on the pitch, the fourth-ranked Irish picked up right where they usually do — in the win col­umn. Bolstered by the solid play of a talented freshman class, Notre Dame posted back-to-back shutouts against Minnesota and UW-Milwaukee in the first action of the 2010 season. 
“We opened with two very good teams, two teams that will most likely be in the NCAA Tournament,” Irish coach Randy Waldrum said. “So to get two wins like that early before we hit Santa Clara will be really important.” 
see WALDRUM/page 17 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer Junior forward Melissa Henderson dribbles past an Oregon State defender during Notre Dame’s 1-0 victory in the NCAA Tournament. 
MEN’S SOCCER 
ND win also benefits GrassrootSoccercharity 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
Not only did the Irish top the University of Illinois-Chicago 3­2 in their first exhibition game of the season Monday night, but they also helped a good cause. 
The profits from the game were donated to Grassroot Soccer, an organization created by Irish coach Bobby Clark’s oldest son Tommy Clark while he was in medical school. The organization uses soccer to pro­mote HIV/AIDS research and awareness among youth in Africa. 
“Hopefully Grassroot Soccer will benefit, and to all the fans that put in their dollar, I just want to say thanks to them,” Clark said. “We do this the day before classes start, and this was the seventh Grassroot Soccer Game we’ve had.” 
The Irish took an early lead in the game after an assist from junior midfielder Brendan King set up classmate Aaron Maund for a goal in the 13th minute. The first half ended with the Irish up 1-0. 
UIC made a comeback in the second half, scoring a goal to tie the contest. 
However, the Irish responded three minutes later as junior Michael Rose scored a goal off an assist from freshman mid­fielder Harrison Shipp. Shipp had two assists during his debut game, the other a pass to 
see CLARK/page 18 







