the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Students shave their heads for a cure 
The Bald and the Beautiful event raises money for St. Baldrick’s Foundation for Cancer Research 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
When freshman Brigid Halloran first saw the ad for The Bald and the Beautiful, she decided to shave her head in support of cancer research — and never thought twice about it. 
“I lost a friend to cancer ear­lier this year. She was special to so many people and is missed dearly everyday,” Halloran said. “So when I saw the ad for The Bald and The Beautiful, I committed myself to shaving my head ... It was a natural, very easy decision.” 
The Bald & the Beautiful: ND Fights Cancer is a campus-wide event hosted by the Class of 2012 and sponsored by Fiddler’s Hearth. The event began Wednesday and will run until the Blue-Gold Game Saturday, raising donations for the St. Baldrick’s Foundation for Cancer Research. 
Last year, 140 men and women from the Notre Dame community participated in the event to raise $26,500 for childhood cancer research. 
Student body president Catherine Soler said she hope to raise $30,000 this year. 
“Currently, 90 people are signed up to shave their heads, but that’s not including the 25 walk-ins we had today and the 40 football players,” she said. 
Soler said three of the 90 signed up are women. 
Although many girls cringe at the thought of a head without hair to straighten or curl each day, Halloran knew her contri­bution to cancer research, as well as the opportunity to com­memorate a dear friend, would make every last strand worth it. 

“I am not nervous at all! It is, after all, just hair,” she said. “Over 160,000 children are diagnosed with some form of cancer every year. Their cause is certainly more important than my ‘daily do.’” 

Former Irish defensive back Mike Anello has also taken the cause into his own hands, donating his hair and hours of time to creating a video blog at mikeanello.com. 
“I started doing [the blog] a month and a half to two months ago. I wanted to get a few episodes up first, so people could come to the site and watch more than one video,” Anello said. 
see BALD/page 4 



Students prepare for Earth Day festivities 
By EMILY SCHANK 
News Writer 
Students looking to cele­brate Earth Day will have numerous opportunities to do so on campus this year, from fashion shows to rock climb­ing walls. 
“This is the 40th anniver­sary of Earth Day, so we wanted to make the celebra­tion a good one,” said junior Regina McCormack, co-presi­dent of Students for Environmental Action (SEA). “The major goal is to cele­brate environmentalism at Notre Dame and increase awareness about environ­mental responsibility.” 
Campus celebrations will kick off at 11 a.m. with an Earth Day Rally at Fieldhouse Mall, which includes a free climbing wall open to all stu­dents. 
“Bringing a portable wall to campus seemed to be the perfect way to expose the Notre Dame community to something fun and exciting,” junior Brent Kelly, treasurer of the Notre Dame Climbing Club, said. “In addition to the physical and mental chal­lenge of rock climbing, there is also a spiritual aspect that demands a respect and admi­ration for nature.” 
see EARTH/page 4 



ND SEED gives back to Guatemalan village 
By KATLYN SMITH 
News Writer 
A group of six students will be giving back to a Guatemalan village while applying their engineering skills this summer. 
Notre Dame Students Empowering through Engineering Development (ND SEED), a team of civil engineer­ing students who have been fundraising and designing a bridge for a community in Palquí, Guatemala this year. 
Partnering with Bridges to Prosperity (B2P), a non-profit organization seeking to fight global poverty by building foot­bridges in developing countries, ND SEED will finalize construc­tion of the bridge in June. 
ND SEED member Stephen Santay, a junior, said he got a positive reaction from the com­munity when the group visited the site during fall break. 
“They were very, very excited for us to be there and very humble that we were taking on the project,” Santay said. “They were very willing to help us out with whatever we needed and were very generous.” 
According to the ND SEED website, the project fills a par­ticular need for school chil­dren. During the rainy season, students cannot cross the flood­ed river Qebrada Palquí and have to walk an hour out of their way to reach the school­house. 
“In the rainy season, which is a significant portion of the year down there, the attendance at school drops by more than 50 percent,” Santay said. “So, I think that would be the main goal of our project is so that the kids can go to school to get an education year round.” 
Sophomore Enrique Descamps, a native of Guatemala, said the community offered the group the head of a cooked chicken, a traditional honor, as a token of their grati­tude. 
Descamps said the bridge will address Guatemala’s infra­structural need, as most roads are unpaved and houses built 



see ND SEED/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SGA holds final meeting page 3  Kelly discusses Blue-Gold game page 24  Kyle Carter interview page 12  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Thursday, April 22, 2010 

INSIDE COLUMN 


Where to volunteer? 
With summer fast approaching, if you have not yet, it is time to start thinking about summer plans. What will I do with myself this summer? 
The job market is sketchy and doesn’t look like a possibility. Relaxing all sum­mer is not necessari­ly a bad thing, but I need some structure to my months off. Then it hit me: I can volunteer at an organization this summer, but where? 
With so many organizations in need of help, one Tim Singler that flies under the radar is the Special 

Sports Wire 
Olympics. 

Editor
The Special Olympics provides people of all ages with intellectual disabilities the opportu­nity to participate in a sport. Sports are not merely recreation either. They pro­vide these people with the thrill of hitting the game-winning basket, striding out the last 100 meters of a race and celebrating a victory with teammates. 
But one thing is different about the Special Olympics. There are no losers. Everyone is a winner. The day-to-day challenges are so great for some that even just competing is a feat unto itself. 
I have first hand experience with the Special Olympics of Illinois. I went to watch my sisters, who both have Down syndrome, compete in swimming and gymnastics. I thought that it might be boring to watch the other events, but I found myself cheering just as loud for the competitors finishing the race or scoring last as I did for my sisters. 
The ability to finish is just as important, if not more important, than winning the event itself. The athlete who receives the loudest cheers is usually the one who per­severes to the physical limits of his or her strength just to finish. 
The Special Olympics provides a won­derful experience for all people with intel­lectual disabilities. When I attended the state summer games for Illinois to root for my sisters, there was something that I learned while in attendance that I didn’t expect. 
Winning had nothing to do with this weekend. In fact, the competition itself was only minor in comparison to the other activities. This is the one weekend of the year were my two sisters can spend a night or two away from parents, stay in a college dorm, and just have a good time. 
The Special Olympics has been an inspiration for me. Volunteers are always needed to make the events run. Prior knowledge of sports is not absolutely nec­essary, as just your presence will make all of the difference. 
Volunteering to work at a Special Olympic event will not go unnoticed either. Many of the athletes will go out of his or her way to say thank you. However, I feel that a big thank you needs to be given back to the athletes for their com­mitment to excellence. 
Take a chance this summer; try some­thing new. All of the athletes take a pledge before the games begin. These words continue to influence athletes and all those involved throughout the world, “Let me win. But if I cannot win, let me be brave in the attempt.” 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 

CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT GETS YOU THROUGH F NALS? 







Dave Skorup  Jeff Berryman  Marti McGraw  Nathan Lin  Peter Baxter  
sophomore  sophomore  freshman  freshman  freshman  
Carroll  Keough  Pangborn  Sorin  Siegfried  
“Caffeine.”  “Napping, golf  “My boyfriend.”  “Studying.”  “Singing.”  
and lots of  
Ramen  

noodles.” 


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Students distribute The Dome 2010 yearbook Wednesday in South Dining Hall. Students could pick up their copy Tuesday or Wednesday in LaFortune Student Center and South Dining Hall. Yearbooks are available Thursday as well. 



OFFBEAT 
Worker hit after confronting customer about body odor 
BELLINGHAM, Wash. – Police said a Cost Cutter store employee was punched in the mouth after he confronted a customer about his body odor. Police spokesman Mark Young told The Bellingham Herald that police went to the store after a report of a fight and found employees holding down a man. 
The newspaper said cus­tomers apparently com­plained while the man was in the store Sunday, and the employee decided to discuss it with him when he returned the next day. 
Young said the store employee was not going to ask him to leave the store, but only approached him to share the complaints. Young said the man snapped and threw a bunch of batteries and punched the worker, caus­ing a minor injury. 
Woman strikes spouse with hammer for his ‘surprise’ 
SALT LAKE CITY – A Utah woman has been sentenced to 30 days at home with an ankle moni­tor for blindfolding her husband and promising him a surprise before hit­ting him in the head with a hammer three years ago. 
Amy Teresa Ricks also was sentenced to proba­tion and community serv­ice Monday in 3rd District Court. The 37-year-old pleaded guilty to second-degree felony aggravated assault in February. 
Prosecutors have agreed to reduce the conviction to a third-degree felony after Ricks completes pro­bation. They also agreed to let Ricks seek expunge­ment of the crime after seven years. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Friday Saturday 




IN BRIEF 
“Le Point Vierge: Mary and The Catholic Imagination” will be presented by Wendy 
M. Wright at 7:30 p.m. today in Carroll Auditorium at Saint Mary’s College. 

The Best of Acousticafe will be held today from 10 
p.m. to midnight in Legends. The event will feature live student musical performanc­es. The event is free. 


The Shirt Unveiling Ceremony will be Friday at 
5:45 p.m. at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. The event will feature remarks from Irish Coach Brian Kelly, and shirts will be available for purchase immediately after the ceremony. 
The Notre Dame Bike Fest 2010 will be Friday from noon to 7 p.m. in front of the Rockne Memorial building. Bike registration, free tune ups, safety skills and bike clubs will all be available. 
The Blue-Gold Game will be held Saturday at the Notre Dame Football Stadium starting at 1:35 p.m. 
The 3rd Annual Father Ted Fun Run/Walk will be held Sunday starting and ending at South Dining Hall, with registration beginning at 1:15 
p.m. and races beginning at 
3:30 p.m. All proceeds go toward the Upward Bound program, helping low-income high school students become first-generation college grad­uates. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

Sunday Monday 

Atlanta 80 / 56 Boston 66 / 45 Chicago 62 / 43 Denver 57 / 42 Houston 81 / 69 Los Angeles 61 / 48 Minneapolis 67 / 48 New York 69 /46 Philadelphia 71 / 45 Phoenix 66 / 53 Seattle 62 / 44 St. Louis 73 /54 Tampa 84 / 63 Washington 75 / 49 
Thursday, April 22, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 


STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 



Boardreviewsrules, bylawsforelections 

By MEGHAN PRICE 
News Writer 
The Saint Mary’s Student Government Association (SGA) held its final meeting of the aca­demic year Wednesday to discuss and vote on the bylaws and elec­tion policies for SGA. 
The board decided it wanted to increase the number of candi­dates running for elected posi­tions and also the number of stu­dents voting in those elections. 
One of the concerns about the rules was the timing of elections. Sophomore class president Nicole Gans said elections had been held too close to finals. 
“When students are as busy as they are during the end of the year, they don’t have the time to read about who is running, let alone to run themselves,” Gans said. “The timing really diminish­es involvement.” 
Many board members thought that having the candidates com­mit to the next year too early would be a bad idea. Junior Megan Griffin, executive treasur­er, said having the elections at that time was good because the people running for office would have to be upholding their responsibilities throughout the year, even during stressful times. 
Junior Laura Smith, SGA vice president, said the elections would be held the week before Spring Break, which will make next year’s elections a bit earlier than those in the past. 
SGA president Rachael Chesley, a junior, also said the board the candidates would be informed of the election rules and require­ments two weeks before the elec­tion. 
She said this would give candi­dates more time to prepare and the student body more time to learn about their platforms. 
The minimum 3.0 GPA requirment to run for office was also debated. Many of the officers felt the requirement should be lowered because it could get more students interested and involved in the election process. However, others felt this would be lowering the standard too much. 
“The average GPA at Saint Mary’s is 3.17,” junior Emily Skirtich, executive secretary, said. “The requirement is already below that and so I think it would be a bad idea to lower it further. We don’t want our representa­tives to be below average.” 
The board voted to keep the required GPA to run at 3.0. After voting on these stipulations, the board passed the bylaws and election rules for the upcoming year. SGA will have its next meet­ing in the 2010 fall semester. 
Contact Meghan Price at mprice02@saintmarys.edu 



STUDENT SENATE 

Group discusses plans for2010footballpeprally 
By SCOTT ENGLERT 
News Writer 
Student Senate passed one res­olution and discussed the new 2010 football pep rally format during its meeting Wednesday night. 
The resolution states: “All com­missioners shall be chosen by May 1 of the term they serve in their respective organizations.” 
Sophomore Paige Becker, chair­man of the Oversight Committee, said the resolution is not actually changing the current format of the selection of student union ethics commissioners but is pro­posing to instill the current prac­tice as an official amendment in the constitution. The resolution passed unanimously. 
Student body vice president Andrew Bell explained the changes in the pep rally format for the coming fall. 
“We’re excited about this, but we know there are some issues,” Bell said. “We only planned through the first three home games and Boston College so we can see how each venue works … and then go from there.” 
Agreeing that change is needed, senators discussed the specific details of the pep rallies. Cavanaugh senator Tegan Chapman, a freshman, said she wants the atmosphere to be more upbeat at the new flagpole gath­ering point. 
“Before the Dillon pep rally and all the music was playing,” Chapman said. “If we could get that atmosphere at the flag pole that would be nice.” 
Senators also discussed the cur­rent prevalence of dorm rivalries at pep rallies. Fisher senator Daniel McShea, a sophomore, said he believes the events should be a time for school unity. 
“I think the rivalry is important but it’s a time for the student body to come together,” McShea said. 
But Becker said she believes the rivalries between dorms will always play a role. 
“As for the dorm rivalry … I feel that when you put the dorms together it’s going to happen,” Becker said. 
Pasquerilla West senator Jessica Fay, a freshman, said incentives are a change to be con­sidered. 
Regardless of the specific for­mat, junior Casey Cockerham, chairman of the Committee on Campus Technology, said changes must be successfully communi­cated to the student body. 
“Let students know you’re try­ing to make the pep rallies short­er,” Cockerham said. 
Knott senator Alex Kasparie, agreed. 
“I think it’s really important to explain that we’re experiment­ing,” Kasparie said. “Nobody wants to go to Irish Green.” 
Contact Scott Englert at senglert @nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, April 22, 2010 
Bald 
continued from page 1 
Anello rallied nearly 30 team members to shave their heads, as well as people across the country to donate to his cause. 
“It’s been cool seeing that the donations have been coming from across the country,” Anello said. “I’ve had 9,000 people come to the site in the last three weeks.” 
Irish football players Tom Burke, Raeshon McNeil, John Ryan and Sam Young, as well as women’s soccer players Courtney Rosen and Kelsey Lysander, joined Anello in a visit to the Pediatric Oncology ward of Memorial Hospital on Tuesday. 
Anello said the time spent with those children was extremely rewarding, and he hopes to visit them again. 
“It was amazing interacting with the kids. After what they’ve gone through, they still have a smile on their face,” Anello said. 
On Wednesday, Anello reached his personal goal of raising $5,000 for cancer research. He decided to set a new goal of rais­ing $10,000 by Saturday, when the fundraising comes to a close at the Blue-Gold Game. 
In addition to shaving heads, students can also contribute to the cause by donating eight inches of hair to make wigs for cancer patients, purchasing din­ners from Fiddler’s Hearth in the LaFortune Ballroom or purchas­ing colored hair extensions. 
Twenty-five Welsh Family resi­dents have signed up for hair extensions in support of sopho­more Kelsey Thrasher, a cancer survivor. 
For some, donating hair at The Bald and the Beautiful is an emotional experience. 
The devastating effects of can­cer have hit close to home for Halloran, so her experience with The Bald and the Beautiful thus far has been a personal one. Halloran said she is grateful for the overwhelming support friends, family and teachers have offered. 
“I have been extremely hum­bled by their giving hearts and caring spirits,” she said. “A renewed sense of hope has been the greatest blessing of this experience. It proves that great­ness can come from the tragedy of my friend’s death.” 
The Bald and the Beautiful will continue today and tomorrow from 4 p.m. to 10 p.m. in the Sorin and Dooley rooms of LaFortune. For more informa­tion about the event, or to offer donations, visit https://sites. googl e.mom/a/nd.edu/ ndclass12/ 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 



ND SEED 
continued from page 1 

with sheet metal and other  until the students arrive.  He said the club chose to  
materials vulnerable to mud- Kijewski-Correa said the  do this as a part of the Earth  
slides during the rainy season.  community decides whether or  Day Rally to emphasize the  
Besides appreciation,  not to finance this labor.  majesty of the natural world  
Descamps saw a wide spec­ “I imagine most of it they are  and humanity’s responsibili­ 
trum of the community  doing it on their own time with  ty to it.  
involved in the project.  their own free man power to  En v i r o n m e nt a l an d s u s - 
“Everyone’s willing to help,”  get it done because they see  tainability groups from the  
Descamps said. “The women  the impact it’s going to have on  South Bend area will also be  
offered to cook for us while we  their lives,” Kijewski-Correa  at the rally giving out infor­ 
stay there over  said.  mation about their work in  
the summer.  For Kijewiski­ the community, McCormack  

The men of the Correa, one of said. 
“Everyone’s willing to 
community are the biggest 
“My hope is that the rally doing labor.” help. The women challenges is 
will teach students a little Senior Angela offered to cook for us raising close to 
more about real-life environ-Medlock said $20,000 for 
mental issues and what peo­

while we stay there
the project will costs ranging ple are doing now to cope 
over the summer. The 
have a large from trans-
with them,” she said. “It’s impact for a men of the community portation to 
really just a fun, outdoor cel­community materials for 
ebration of Earth Day.” 

are doing labor.” 
with limited the bridge. The 
GreeND, another environ-resources. economic cli­
“They don’t Enrique Descamps mate and budg­have running sophomore et costs across 
w a t e r, ” Medlock said. “They don’t have electricity. This one part of my curriculum here, this one part of my life is everything to them. This bridge is going to change their lives.” 
Tracy Kijewski-Correa, a civil engineering professor and advisor to the project, said stu­dents selected the bridge’s design from a catalogue of accepted designs standardized by the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASH­TO). 
Students will live in the local school, con­struct the 


bridge and “I imagine most of itteach the com-
they are doing it on
munity how to 

their own time with
make repairs on the bridge in their own free man May and June. 
power to get it done
Kijewski­

because they see the
Correa said bridge mainte-impact it’s going to nance in the 
have on their lives.” 
U.S. will serve as an example of what not to Tracy Kijewski-Correa 
do. professor “In this coun­
civil engineering
try, for exam­ple, we have 25 percent of our bridges in a state of disrepair because they haven’t been maintained prop­erly, so we do a bad job of this even ourselves,” Kijewski-Correa said. “So for this partic­ular project, we want to learn from the mistakes we’ve made in this country about leaving maintenance as a secondary thought, an afterthought until 

mental group working to the show. 
it’s too late.” 

improve energy efficiency on Tickets for the fashion 
The community is currently 

Earth 

campus, will host the Rising show can be purchased for 
excavating the site and build-

continued from page 1 Sun Green Fashion show $5 at the door or in the 
ing the bridge’s foundation 
tonight 
alongside a B2P site supervisor 
university 
departments 
have complicat­ed fundraising. 
Kijewski-Correa said stu­dents have played a significant role in fundraising efforts in dorms and a dinner at Five Guys. 
According to Kijewski-Correa, the group needs to raise about $1,700 more to reach their goal. 
Kijewski-Correa said the project allows the students, who will be fulfilling one of their engineering elective requirements, to harness their knowledge for a greater good 
and appreciate the infrastruc­ture in the U.S. 
“I think we are so spoiled by an amazing and wonderful life that we take for grant­ed how much we have to be thankful for everyday until you go to some of these other countries and see how des­perate they are for a simple 
at 
thing like a footbridge that’s going to make it possible for them to get to other communi­ties, neighboring communities and to have a better way of life, and we don’t think twice every time we get into our car and drive,” Kijewski-Correa said. 
Contact Katlyn Smith at ksmith33@nd.edu 
Legends at 
5:30 p.m. 

“The show “Earth Day is really a will feature time for people to over 90 outfits 
come together and
made from recyclabl e appreciate the beauty 
materials or and bounty of nature.” purchased from second 
Regina McCormack 
hand stores,” McCormack co-president said. “SEA is SEA so excited to help out as a co-spon sor and supply student models ple to come LaFortune Box Office. 
“We hope that these events will allow people to enjoy being in fellowship with their peers while celebrating the beauty of Earth,” McCormack said. “Earth Day is really a time for peo­together and 

and volunteers for the appreciate the beauty and event.” bounty of nature.” 
She said many of the clothes that will be modeled Contact Emily Schank at will also be on sale following eschrank@nd.edu 
World & Nation 
Thursday, April 22, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Ash cloud costs airlines $2 billion 
AMSTERDAM — Airlines toted up losses top­ping $2 billion and struggled to get hundreds of thousands of travelers back home Wednesday after a week of crippled air travel, as questions and recriminations erupted over Europe's chaotic response to the volcanic ash cloud. 
Civil aviation authorities defended their deci­sions to ground fleets and close the skies — and later to reopen them — against heated charges by airline chiefs that the decisions were based on flawed data or unsubstantiated fears. 
The aviation crisis sparked by a volcanic eruption in Iceland left millions in flightless limbo, created debilitating losses for airlines and other industries and even threatened Europe's economic recovery. An aviation group called the financial fallout worse than the three-day worldwide shutdown after the 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States. 
Priest offers to quit amid scandal 
BERLIN — A German bishop is offering his resignation after a flap over allegations of phys­ical abuse and financial misconduct, his home­town newspaper reported Wednesday. 
Augsburg Bishop Walter Mixa wrote a letter to Pope Benedict XVI Wednesday evening offer­ing to resign as bishop and as Germany's Roman Catholic military chaplain, the daily Augsburger Allgemeine reported, without citing sources. 
He wrote that the “continuing public discus­sion” about him had “seriously burdened priests and the faithful,” according to the report. Diocese officials could not immediately be reached for comment late Wednesday night. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
N.Y. senator denies embezzling 
NEW YORK — New York Senate Majority Leader Pedro Espada denies any wrongdo­ing after federal authorities raided a gov­ernment-funded clinic he runs. 
Espada says Attorney General Andrew Cuomo is waging a vendetta against him. 
Espada called Wednesday’s raids of New York City’s Bronx clinic “a media circus, a media show.” He said the charges against him were “false and unfounded.” 
Cuomo confirmed he and federal prosecu­tors are looking into Espada’s financial deal­ings with the clinic, and are pursuing possi­ble criminal charges that could include mail fraud and theft of government funds. 
Cuomo filed a civil action Tuesday, accusing Espada of siphoning $14 million from Soundview Healthcare Network. 
Police seek abandoned boy’s parents 
NEW YORK — Authorities say a family caravanning with a woman and her tod­dler in Florida took the 3-year-old to New York after the boy’s mother was arrested on fraud charges, abandoning him at St. Patrick’s Cathedral with a note stuffed into his hand bearing the name of a detec­tive working the case and the words “call immediately.” 
Eleanor Black, 29, was identified through surveillance footage at the cathe­dral, police said Wednesday. She and William Scott, 32, were believed to have been the last two people with Nathaniel Fons, and they were also suspected of being involved in the counterfeiting opera­tion in Florida where his mother was charged. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Investigator accused of misconduct 
INDIANAPOLIS — A former investigator with the Marion County prosecutor’s office has been accused of misconduct. 
A special prosecutor on Wednesday charged 54-year-old Daniel Constantino with forgery, official misconduct and corrupt business influ­ence. 
Indiana State Police spokesman Sgt. Anthony Emery says Constantino “engaged in a pattern of racketeering activity.” 
Officials say Constantino accepted cash and Indianapolis Colts tickets in return for signing paperwork that facilitated the resale of stolen vehicles. 
Obama considers Court nominees 
President prioritizes women’s rights, says there will be no abortion ‘litmus tests’ 
Associated Press  
WASHINGTON —  
President Barack Obama,  
treading carefully in the  
explosive arena of abortion  
and the Supreme Court,  
said Wednesday he will  
choose a nominee who pays  
heed to the rights of women  
and the privacy of their bod­ 
ies. Yet he said he won’t  
enforce any abortion rights  
“litmus tests.”  
Obama said it is “very  
important to me” that his  
court choice take women’s  
rights into account in inter­ 
preting the Constitution, his  
most expansive comments  
yet about how a woman’s  
right to choose will factor  
into his decision.  
He plans to choose some­ 
one to succeed Justice John  
Paul Stevens within “the  
next couple weeks,” he told  
CNBC.  
Obama accelerated his  
political outreach and his  
conversations with candi­ 
dates, positioning himself  
for one of the most conse­ 
quential decisions of his  
presidency. He invited  
Senate leaders —  
Republicans as well as  
Democrats — to discuss the  
issue at the White House AP  
and commented briefly to President Barack Obama discusses the Supreme Court vacancy left by the retirement of  
reporters before their pri-Justice John Paul Stevens in the Oval Office on Wednesday.  
vate meeting.  
His rejection of the idea of  name, federal appeals court  He said he would not  “I think a litmus test is  
“litmus tests” was standard  Judge Ann Williams of  judge candidates on a sin- when you say, will you ask a  
presidential language, keep- Chicago.  gle-issue abortion test.  direct question about — do  
ing him from being boxed in  Among the others are  “But I will say that I want  you believe this? Do you  
and protecting his eventual  appeals court judges Diane  somebody who is going to  believe that?” White House  
nominee from charges of  Wood, Merrick Garland and  be interpreting our  press secretary Robert  
bringing preconceived deci- Sidney Thomas, former  Constitution in a way that  Gibbs said. “I think the  
sions to the bench.  Georgia Chief Justice Leah  takes into account individ­ president will ask any nomi­ 
Obama’s pick is not  Ward Sears, Solicitor  ual rights, and that includes  nee discuss how they view  
expected to change the ide- General Elena Kagan,  women’s rights,” Obama  the Constitution and the  
ological balance on the  Michigan Gov. Jennifer  said. “And that’s going to be  legal principles enshrined in  
court, though Stevens, the  Granholm, Homeland  something that’s very  it.”  
leader of the court’s liber- Security Secretary Janet  important to me, because I  The Supreme Court  
als, has played a major role  Napolitano and Harvard  think part of what our core  declared in 1973 through its  
in the court’s upholding of  Law School Dean Martha  constitutional values pro- Roe v. Wade decision that a  
abortion rights. Stevens,  Minow.  mote is the notion that indi­ woman has a constitutional  
who turned 90 on Tuesday,  When asked if he could  viduals are protected in  right to an abortion, and  
is retiring this summer.  nominate someone who did  their privacy and their bodi­ close questioning on the  
Whoever Obama picks has  not support a woman’s right  ly integrity. And women are  issue has been a feature of  
the potential to affect the  to choose, Obama said: “I  not exempt from that.”  Senate confirmation hear- 
lives and rights of  am somebody who believes  Such a detailed answer  ings for some time. Federal  
Americans for a generation  that women should have the  raised the question of  courts have battled with the  
or more.  ability to make often very  whether Obama had, in fact,  ramifications of the land- 
The president is consider- difficult decisions about  spelled out a fundamental  mark decision, although the  
ing about 10 people, includ­ their own bodies and issues  test over abortion. The  core ruling has gone  
ing a newly confirmed  of reproduction.”  White House rejected that.  untouched.  

Rig explosion leaves 11 missing, 17 hurt 
the roughly 400-by-250-foot rig con-A total of 126 workers were aboard
Associated Press 

tinued to burn, and authorities could the rig when it blew up. The Coast 
NEW ORLEANS — Rescuers in heli-not say when the flames might die Guard said 17 were taken by air or copters and boats searched the Gulf out. A column of boiling black smoke sea to hospitals. Four were reported of Mexico for 11 missing workers rose hundreds of feet over the Gulf of in critical condition with severe Wednesday after a thunderous explo-Mexico as fireboats shot streams of burns. Others suffered burns, broken sion rocked a huge oil drilling plat-water at the blaze. legs and smoke inhalation. form and lit up the night sky with a “We’re hoping everyone’s in a life Nearly 100 other workers made it pillar of flame. Seventeen people were raft,” Coast Guard Senior Chief Petty aboard a supply boat and were injured, four critically. Officer Mike O’Berry said. expected to reach the Louisiana shore 
The blast Tuesday night aboard the Adrian Rose, vice president of rig by evening. Deepwater Horizon rig 50 miles off owner Transocean Ltd., said the Kelly Eugene waited with nine fami­the Louisiana coast could prove to be explosion appeared to be a blowout, ly members for husband Kevin one of the nation’s deadliest offshore in which natural gas or oil forces its Eugene, 46, a cook on the Deepwater drilling accidents of the past half-cen-way up a well pipe and smashes the Horizon. A catering company operat­tury. equipment. But precisely what went ing on the rig notified her he was 
The Coast Guard held out hope that wrong was under investigation. safe. the missing workers escaped in one of Crews were doing routine work “He’s on the boat. That’s all we the platform’s covered lifeboats. before the explosion and there were know. And that’s all we need to 
Nearly 24 hours after the explosion, no signs of trouble, Rose said. know,” she said. 
page 6 The Observer . NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, April 22, 2010 
Man finds kidney donor in mayor via Facebook 
Associated Press 
HARTFORD, Conn. — Politicians long ago discovered the uses of Facebook. East Haven Mayor April Capone Almon found something else there: a con­stituent who needed her kidney. 
Capone Almon, 35, had more than 1,600 “friends” on Facebook last year when she saw one of them, Carlos Sanchez, post a status update saying his friends and relatives had all been tested and couldn’t donate a kid­ney. 
She knew him casually through activities and friends in the New Haven suburb of East Haven, but they weren’t so close that she had heard he was ill. 
Sanchez, a 44-year-old father whose kidneys were failing because of diabetes, sent out the request on Facebook only hesi­tantly and on his doctor’s sugges­tion. He worried people might pity him — and certainly hadn’t pinned his hopes on finding a donor that way. 
He didn’t have long to wait. Capone Almon was the first per­son to respond. 
“I sent him a private message and just said, ‘Hey, I’ll try. I’ll get tested,’” Capone Almon said Wednesday. “I really felt from the very beginning that I was going to be a match and a donor. I don’t know why, but I just knew it.” 
Sanchez had no such certainty. 
“I thought she was joking. The mayor of East Haven would offer me her kidney?” said Sanchez, an office administrator. “She responded back and said, ‘I am serious, I am willing to get test­ed.’ 
“I wasn’t putting too much faith in it,” he said. “I didn’t want to get my hopes high. But at a point she made me feel so com­fortable that I started feeling maybe this was meant to be.” 
Capone Almon, a Democrat, was running for second term as mayor at the time but kept the details of her medical plans a secret. She won the election as they awaited word on when she could donate the kidney, saying they grew as close as family dur­ing the lull. 
“I know he voted for me, too,” she joked. 
The operation was set only after Capone Almon passed a battery of tests and was given a long explanation of the process, which involved three small inci­sions near her ribcage and a scar similar to that of a cesarean sec­tion. 
“What the doctors said to me is, ‘Your recipient is already sick and we’re not going to make you sick to make him somewhat bet­ter,’” she said. “They do not com­promise the donor’s health in any way, shape or form.” 


Prosecutor: Camry in deadly crash not recalled 
limited number of those were him of criminal vehicular homi-brakes were on, the filaments experts for all sides who 
Associated Press 

subject to a recall for a problem cide. were lit, and when the impact inspected Lee’s car at the St. 
ST. PAUL, Minn. — The with aftermarket cruise con-Gaertner said Wednesday that occurred, the filaments explod-Paul police impound lot inspection of a Toyota Camry trols that caused sudden accel-her office will wait for written ed on the inside of the bulb,” Tuesday and Wednesday will involved in a deadly crash that eration. However, Ramsey reports on this week’s inspec-Cook said. agree in their final reports that sent a St. Paul man to prison County Attorney Susan tions, including a report from The brake lights had to have the brake lights were on and supports his claim he did all he Gaertner announced Toyota, before deciding how to been on for at least a second or showed that Lee tried to stop. could to try to stop before the Wednesday that Lee’s Camry respond to Lee’s request for a two for the filaments to heat up Toyota faces at least 100 law­2006 collision that killed three had a factory cruise control and new trial. enough, and they may have suits for injuries or deaths people, attorneys and a partici-was not among those recalled. “It is reckless for anyone to been on even longer, but it was-attributed to sudden accelera­pating expert said Wednesday. Schafer and Padden say that speculate about the results of n’t possible to determine how tion and is the subject of a con-
The filaments on the brake doesn’t affect Lee’s case, how-the inspection until we have much longer from the bulbs, gressional investigation. Padden lights of Koua Fong Lee’s car ever. They point to reports filed those reports,” Gaertner said. Cook said. Had the brake lights said he plans to file a wrongful “exploded,” indicating Lee hit with federal regulators of sud-But Schafer, Padden and been off and the filaments been death lawsuit “very soon” the brakes at least a second or den acceleration in 1996 Padden’s expert said the exami-cold, he said, they would have against Toyota and a dealer on two before impact, said Jim Camrys that were never nation of the brake lights backs simply broken loose and rolled behalf of the victims and their Cook, an expert hired by the recalled. Lee’s petition for a up Lee’s story. around inside the bulbs. families, who now believe Lee is victims’ attorney, Mike Padden. new trial last month also was “It appears to me that the Schafer said he’s confident innocent. 
Lee’s defense attorney, Brent accompanied by affidavits from Schafer, began working to get 16 people who described sud-the case reopened after Toyota den acceleration in their older recalled several newer models Toyotas. due to sudden acceleration Lee insisted during his trial problems. Lee’s accident is and in recent interviews from among a growing number of prison that he did everything he cases, some long resolved, to could to stop his 1996 Camry as receive new attention after it sped up a freeway exit ramp Toyota admitted its problems at about 80 to 90 mph and with sudden acceleration were slammed into an Oldsmobile in more extensive than originally June 2006. The 32-year-old is believed. serving an eight-year prison 
Lee drove a 1996 Camry. A sentence after a jury convicted 


The Observer 
Business

Thursday, April 22, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

GM pays back $8.1 billion loan early 
WASHINGTON — Fallen giant General Motors Co. accelerated toward recovery Wednesday, announcing the repayment of $8.1 billion in U.S. and Canadian government loans five years ahead of schedule. 
The Obama administration crowed about the “turnaround” at GM and fellow bailout recipient Chrysler LLC, saying the government’s unpopu­lar rescue of Detroit’s automakers is paying off. 
Much of the improvement comes from GM slashing its debt load and workforce as part of its bankruptcy reorganization last year. But the automaker is a long way from regaining its old blue-chip status: It remains more than 70 per­cent government-owned and is still losing money 
— $3.4 billion in last year’s fourth quarter alone. And while its car and truck sales are up so far this year, that’s primarily due to lower-profit sales to car rental companies and other fleet buyers. 
Chrysler, now run by Italy’s Fiat Group SpA, said Wednesday it lost almost $200 million in the first quarter. But it said it boosted its cash reserves by $1.5 billion, reducing the likelihood that it will need more government aid. 
Obama says value-added tax possible 
WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama suggested Wednesday that a new value-added tax on Americans is still on the table, seeming to show more openness to the idea than his aides have expressed in recent days. 
Before deciding what revenue options are best for dealing with the deficit and the economy, Obama said in an interview with CNBC, “I want to get a better picture of what our options are.” 
After Obama adviser Paul Volcker recently raised the prospect of a value-added tax, or VAT, the Senate voted 85-13 last week for a nonbind­ing “sense of the Senate” resolution that calls the such a tax “a massive tax increase that will cripple families on fixed income and only fur­ther push back America’s economic recovery.” 
For days, White House spokesmen have said the president has not proposed and is not con­sidering a VAT. 
“I think I directly answered this the other day by saying that it wasn’t something that the pres­ident had under consideration,” White House press secretary Robert Gibbs told reporters shortly before Obama spoke with CNBC. 
Goldman Sachs CEO to testify 
Lloyd Blankfein will respond to civil fraud accusations before the Senate 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Goldman Sachs is taking its fight against a government civil fraud case to Capitol Hill. 
Goldman CEO Lloyd Blankfein will testify before a Senate panel Tuesday in what are expected to be his first public comments on the Securities and Exchange Commission’s lawsuit charging that the bank defrauded two investors, according to a person familiar with the plans. He spoke on condition of anonymity because the appearance hasn’t been publicly announced. 
A 31-year-old Goldman employee at the center of the lawsuit, Fabrice Tourre, is also expected to be questioned at the hear­ing, according to media reports. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. spokesman Samuel Robinson declined to comment on the reports. 

Blankfein will answer questions before the Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigation, which is investigating the role of major banks in the sub-prime mortgage crisis, according to the person. Blankfein agreed to appear SEC informed or coordi-completely false.” investors in his Paulson & before the panel before the nated its action against SEC Chairman Mary Co. hedge fund during a SEC sued the bank but is Goldman with the White Schapiro also denied any conference call that was expected to take questions House, which is in the coordination with the described as upbeat by a on the case. The panel midst of a push for new White House in the person familiar with the declined to comment. regulations on the finan-Goldman case and stressed discussion. He requested 
Goldman’s willingness to cial industry. the agency’s independence. anonymity because the answer questions in such a In an interview “We do not coordinate conversation was confiden­public forum suggests the Wednesday, President our enforcement actions tial. bank is trying to get out in Barack Obama denied as with the White House, Meanwhile, there were front of the SEC case, said “completely false” the Congress or political com-signs that the SEC may Christopher Whalen, man-notion that White House mittees,” she said in a have a tough time proving aging director of had advance knowledge of statement. “We do not time its case. The SEC alleges Institutional Risk Analytics. the case. Obama said the our cases around political the bank misled two 
“There’s no place to SEC is an independent events or the legislative investors who bought com-hide, so if I were advising agency and that the White calendar.” plex mortgage-related Mr. Blankfein I would tell House has no day-to-day The big bank isn’t the products that were crafted him to get out there and control over it. only one on the defensive. in part by Paulson. The tell the story,” Whalen “They never discussed The billionaire hedge fund hedge fund manager was said. “Securities fraud with us anything, with manager whose bearish betting the mortgages claims are difficult to respect to the charge that bets were brought to light would fail. The agency prove, especially a civil will be brought,” he said in by the SEC case reached says Goldman didn’t dis­claim, so I think Goldman the interview with CNBC. out to his investors a sec-close Paulson’s intentions has an even chance of win-“So this notion that some-ond day Wednesday to to the investors, IKB ning in court.” how, there would be any assure them the fund did Deutsche Industriebank 
Questions have been attempt to interfere in an nothing wrong. AG and ACA Management raised about whether the independent agency is John Paulson addressed LLC. 

Redesign of $100 bill fights counterfeiting 
Geithner said. denomination in general circulation, is 
Associated Press 

Benjamin Franklin is still on the C-the final bill to undergo this latest round 
WASHINGTON — The folks who print note. But he has been joined by a disap-of redesigns. The Bureau of Engraving America’s money have designed a high-pearing Liberty Bell in an inkwell and a and Printing began the process in 1996 tech makeover of the $100 bill complete bright blue security ribbon composed of with an initial round of makeovers. with disappearing Liberty Bells and thousands of tiny lenses that magnify Those changes were followed in 2003 magical ribbons. objects in mysterious ways. Move the with a series that added more sophisti­
It’s all part of an effort to stay ahead bill, and the objects move in a different cated anti-counterfeiting features of counterfeiters as copying technology direction. including splashes of color which have becomes more sophisticated and more The new currency will not go into cir-been added to the $20, $50, $10 and $5 dollars flow overseas. culation until Feb. 10 of next year. That denominations. The $1 bill isn’t getting 
The makeover was unveiled by will give the government time to edu-a makeover. Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner cate the public in the United States and All the changes are aimed at thwart-and Federal Reserve Chairman Ben around the world about the changes. ing counterfeiters who are armed with Bernanke during a ceremony in the “We estimate that as many as two-ever-more sophisticated computers, Treasury Department’s ornate Cash thirds of all $100 notes circulate outside scanners and color copiers. The $100 Room on Wednesday. the United States,” said Bernanke, who bill is the most frequent target of coun­
“As with previous U.S. currency stressed that the 6.5 billion in $100 bills terfeiters operating outside of the redesigns, this note incorporates the now in circulation will remain legal ten-United States while the $20 bill is the best technology available to make sure der. favorite target of counterfeiters inside we are staying ahead of counterfeiters,” The $100 bill, the highest value the country. 
page 8 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS Thursday, April 22, 2010 
Commercial fishing ship capsizesinGulfofAlaska 
Fisherman looses control of vessel due to throttle 
Associated Press 
ANCHORAGE, Alaska — In less than 15 minutes, com­mercial fisherman Robert Jack went from steering a 75­foot boat across the Gulf of Alaska to a terrifying plunge into its icy waters. 
Jack was one of four crew members on the Northern Belle, based in Seattle, which was hit by a swell and tipped 
on 
its side Tuesday night before sinking 50 miles south of Alaska’s Montague Island, near the mouth of Prince William Sound. He and two 

other 
crew 


members sur - 
vived.  
J a c k  t o l d  


Seattle’s KING-“The throttles of metal. He TV on was plunged 
wouldn’t shut down. 
Wednesday under water. 
We were moving at 
that the scene When he came was chaotic as seven knots, rolling up for air, he the crew fled spotted the cap-
over on one side.” 
the boat. tain entering “The throt -the water but 
Robert Jack 
tles wouldn’t lost sight of him shut down,” he fsherman in the waves. 
“It was extremely listing, and it got worse and worse.” 
Jack and the other crew members helped each other into survival suits — clumsy, head-to-toe outfits of bright orange — and fastened the zippers to make the suits watertight. 
“At this time, less than three minutes had passed, and the boat was almost up vertical, starboard down, port up, straight up and down,” he said. 
They put a life raft over the side but the angle of the boat kept them from getting it untied. Jack jumped in and tore his survival suit on a piece 
said. “We were moving at 7 knots, rolling 
over on one side. There were lines, there were brailer bags, heavy pieces of steel flying every­where.” 
The cause of the sinking has not been determined, said Coast Guard spokes ­woman Sara Francis, who documented the rescue from a C-130 airplane. 
The vessel was carrying cargo on its way to Dillingham, a commercial fishing community in Bristol Bay on Alaska’s southwest coast. The Gulf of Alaska can be treacherous, but Francis said conditions that night were not rough. 
Jack said the crew had sus­picions that their vessel may not have been properly loaded. The skipper, he said, had expressed reservations that there was too much weight in the stern. 
On Tuesday night, Jack said, the crew had just fin­ished dinner, and the skipper turned the wheel over to Jack and headed for his cabin. 
“All of a sudden, the boat took a very large surge to the starboard side, and panic started to happen,” Jack said. 
The captain ran to the engine room as Jack tried to right the vessel. 
“I couldn’t recover the bal­last on the boat,” Jack said. 
Jack swam for about an hour and finally spot­ted a bundle of wood that had been part of the cargo. He climbed on and blew a whistle to get the attention of the only woman 
on board, a deck hand he referred to as Nicole. 
“I managed to get Nicole over, pull her up, partially out of the water,” he said. 
The two rode the wood bun­dle until rescuers arrived. 
A C-130 airplane from the Coast Guard reached the scene in a little more than an hour from Kodiak. 
“The first thing we saw was a debris field,” Francis said. 
Rescuers spotted the crew members on another pass: two on the wood debris and two in the water, three of whom were waving. The air­plane marked the area with smoke flares and dropped life rafts strung together by float­ing line. A helicopter then dropped a rescue swimmer, who helped hoist crew mem­bers into a basket. 
The man who died showed no vital signs, while the three survivors suffered hypother­mia. 
Dr. Phil Hess at Cordova Community Medical Center said the crewman who died suffered a head trauma while exiting the boat, but that it was unclear if he died from the injury or hypothermia. 


MuseumdedicatedtoGonzales 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — When federal agents stormed a home in the Little Havana community, snatched Elian Gonzalez from his father’s relatives and put him on a path back to his father in Cuba, thou­sands of Cuban-Americans took to Miami’s streets. Their anger helped give George W. Bush the White House months later and simmered long after that. 
Ten years later, the Little Havana home — for weeks the epicenter of a standoff that divided the U.S. — is a museum dedicated to Elian’s brief time in this country, but visitors are rare. Almost no one involved in the interna­tional custody case wants to talk about Elian, who is now a teenager back in Cuba. 
Even most Cuban-Americans have moved on. 
“It was a very sour taste left in their mouths,” said Andy Gomez, a senior fellow at the University of Miami’s Institute for Cuban and Cuban-American Studies. “But, realistically, it was a battle to be lost.” 
Elian was just shy of his sixth birthday when a fisher­man found him floating in an inner tube in the waters off Fort Lauderdale on Thanksgiving 1999. His mother and others drowned trying to reach the U.S. 
Elian’s father, who was sep­arated from his mother, remained in Cuba, where he and Fidel Castro’s communist government demanded the boy’s return. 
Elian was placed in the home of his great -uncle, Lazaro Gonzalez, while the Miami relatives and other Cuban exiles went to court to fight an order by U.S. immi­gration officials to return him to Cuba. Janet Reno, President Bill Clinton’s attor­ney general and a Miami native, insisted the boy belonged with his father. 


When talks broke down, she ordered the raid carried out April 22, 2000, the day before Easter. Her then ­deputy, current U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder, has said she wept after giving the order. 
Associated Press photogra­pher Alan Diaz captured Donato Dalrymple, the fisher­man who had found the boy, backing into a bedroom clos­et with a terrified Elian in his arms as an immigration agent in tactical gear inches away aimed his gun toward them. The image won the Pulitzer Prize and brought criticism of the Justice Department to a frenzy. 
No one answered the AP’s repeated calls to a number listed for Dalrymple in the Miami area, and there was no response to interview requests sent through inter­mediaries. 
Lazaro Gonzalez declined to comment, as did his daughter, Marisleysis, who became Elian’s surrogate mother during his U.S. stay. The Justice Department has never released the identity of the agent and did not imme­diately respond to an AP request this week for the agent’s name. 
Clinton, who was in Miami last weekend, said he would still make the same decision because it conformed with international child custody law. 


Thursday, April 22, 2010 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Shipment of uranium seized 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — The presi­dent of Georgia confirmed Wednesday that his country seized a shipment of highly enriched uranium, and blamed Russia for creating the instability that allows nuclear smugglers to operate in the region. 
In an interview with The Associated Press, President Mikhail Saakashvili declined to divulge details of the seizure but said the uranium was intercepted last month coming into his country in the Caucasus region of southeast Europe. 
Saakashvili’s government no longer controls two break­away sections of Georgia, sep­aratist Abkhazia and South Ossetia, which declared inde­pendence after the 2008 Russia-Georgia war, and the president said the smuggling is evidence of a security black hole in the area. 
Such seizures have come “mostly from the direction of Russia,” Saakashvili said. 
The two countries have had tense relations for years, with their leaders routinely trad­ing barbs. 
During the brief August 2008 war, Russia destroyed much of Georgia’s military infrastructure and occupied the two territories. Georgia has protested fiercely, claim­ing that Russia is trying to annex the regions. 
Only Venezuela, Nicaragua and the South Pacific island nation of Nauru have followed Russia’s example and recog­nized both regions as inde­pendent states, while the rest of the world considers them part of Georgia. 

Russia has since established military bases close to the territories’ borders with Georgia proper, and Saakashvili said it has been building up its artillery there. He noted that Western sup­port and involvement in the region are his country’s best defense. 
“We are not asking for an American troop presence,” he said. “We are asking for an American political, economic and security presence.” 
South Ossetia’s border is a mere 30 miles (48 kilometers) from Georgia’s capital, Tbilisi. 
News of the uranium seizure emerged during last week’s nuclear security sum­mit in Washington, which was hosted by President Barack Obama and that Saakashvili attended. It was first reported by Britain’s The Guardian newspaper. 
Obama has pointed to Russian cooperation as essen­tial to his goal of securing all of the world’s nuclear materi­als within four years. 
But Saakashvili said Wednesday that under Russian control, the two breakaway regions have become havens for smug­glers. 
“If you are legally in occu­pation then you are responsi­ble for controlling prolifera­tion,” he said. 
He pointed to a 2006 sting stemming from an investiga­tion in South Ossetia as evi­dence of the smuggling prob­lem in the breakaway republics. In that instance, Georgian authorities arrested four people accused of trying to sell a small quantity of highly enriched uranium. 
Saakashvili also said that Russia’s military buildup in the breakaway regions are a threat to his country’s securi­ty, noting that Russia has “not only the ability, but the inten­tion to depose our govern­ment.” 
“Russia is involved in geopolitical games all around us,” he added. 
In one incident in July that was never disclosed, Saakashvili said, a Russian commander upset over an officer’s defection from the breakaway territories to Georgia ordered Russian tanks 10 miles (16 kilometers) into Georgia proper. 
Saakashvili also said that Georgia was still looking toward NATO membership, despite the apparent reluc­tance of many member coun­tries to expand the security alliance toward Russia. 
“The international situation in this region cannot be stat­ic,” he said. “Either the West will expand eastward or hard-liners in Moscow will expand westward.” 

OK Corral transcript surfaces in frontier town 
Associated Press 
PHOENIX — A missing hand­written transcript from a coro­ner’s inquest done after the leg­endary gunfight at the OK Corral has resurfaced in a dusty box more than 125 years after the most famous shootout in Wild West history. 
The document had been miss­ing for decades — last seen when it was photocopied in the 1960s. 
It was found when court clerks stumbled on the box while reor­ganizing files in an old jail stor­age room in Bisbee, about 20 miles south of Tombstone, the Arizona frontier town where the gunbattle took place. 
Stuffed inside the box was a modern manila envelope marked “keep” with the date 1881. 
The inquest was done after lawmen Wyatt Earp, his two brothers and Doc Holliday con­fronted a gang of drunken out­laws, sparking a 30-second gun-battle in the streets of Tombstone that killed Frank and Tom McLaury and Bill Clanton. 
It made folk heroes of Earp and Holliday and inspired numerous movies about the untamed Old West. 
Officials showed off just one page of the transcript on Wednesday — a thick sheet of paper with blue lines and sloppy cursive writing in dark ink. It appeared to contain the begin­ning of testimony by William Claiborn, identified by a historian as a friend of the three dead out­laws. 
“I was present on the after­noon of Oct. 26th ‘81 when the shooting commenced between outlaw parties,” the testimony reads. 
Court officials have turned the document over to state archivists. Experts will immedi­ately begin peeling away tape, restoring the paper and ink, and digitizing the pages. 
The first pages could show up on the library’s website for histo­rians to review as soon as next week. 
It’s unlikely the transcript will provide any shattering revela­tions about the gunfight, since historians have already reviewed photocopies and the inquest was covered in detail by newspapers at the time. 
Still, historians have long argued over who fired first and whether Tom McLaury was armed when he was shot. Earp and the other lawmen said they were defending themselves. Friends of the outlaws called it murder. 
Wild West fans still argue over who was right, even though a judge and grand jury found insufficient evidence to try Holliday and the Earp brothers. 
History buffs said the tran­script is enlightening nonetheless because it has the potential to clear up fuzzy passages and reveal small notes that don’t appear in the photocopies. 


The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 10 Thursday, April 22, 2010 
THE OBSERVER How Christians should stress 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh 

VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 

Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 

OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4324 lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnewseditor.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 pcoveney@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
Let’s take “What Would Jesus Do?” and apply it to finals week. Let’s also eliminate the possibility that, as the Son of God, he already knows everything. Let’s assume that, fully human like us, this would be a stressful week for him. And that we 
Fr. Lou DelFra 
look to him as a model. So, then, 
FaithPoint 
what does Jesus have to teach us about handling the pressures of finals week? 
I’ve always found it hard to pray during stressful days. I often find myself, on days when the heat is on and I’m behind, send­ing up anxious prayers of desperation — prayers that ultimately only feed my stress, and of course produce no paper-completing miracles. Days of perform­ance-induced stress offer a particular spiritual challenge, and the way to meet that challenge is hardly clear. 
Why is it so hard to glean from the life of Jesus how he handled stressful times? Perhaps because, though Jesus does offer us a way of peace, it is not a simplistic way. On the one hand, throughout his life, and especially when his disciples were losing their grip, Jesus continually offered words of comfort, like “Do not let your hearts be troubled. You trust in God. Then trust in me.” Or, “Come to me all you who are burdened, and I will give you rest. For my burden is light.” And many other con­soling words and actions — Jesus calms the storm, or — a ready-made finals week miracle — quiets the lunatic. 
These words and acts of consolation, however, are not the entirety of Jesus’ response to stress. For every image of peace and calm we glean from his life, we also have record of Jesus’ sleepless nights, arduous itinerant preaching and the daily self-sacrifice he asks of us: “If you wish to find you life, you must be will­ing to lose it and to take up your daily cross.” While Jesus says, “follow me, and I will bring you peace,” he seems simulta­neously to warn, “if you follow me, be 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Ashley Charnley Chris Masoud Alicia Smith Matthew Robison John Cameron Luke Mansour 
Graphics Scene “Even if you’re on the right track, Andrea Archer Alex Kilpatrick you’ll get run over if you justsit there.” 
Viewpoint 
Lauren 

Will Rogers Brauweiler U.S. humorist and showman 
prepared for a life of burden and self-sac­rifice.” 
So, where does it all leave us in finals week? How do we encounter Jesus during stressful days? How to take Christ’s words of consolation seriously — “Do not fear, for I am with you always” — allowing his presence to calm our hearts? While also, at the same time, hearing his call to the work and self-sacrifice that is the part of every meaningful life — “Take up your cross and follow me” — allowing our hearts to rise up to embrace the chal­lenges of our daily lives? 
Perhaps one answer is to try not to allow either of these two realities — Christ’s consolation or Christ’s call to sac­rifice — to blind us to the other. The overemphasis of Christ’s consolation, without any recognition of his call to work tirelessly on His behalf, leads to escapism (“God will take care of everything”), and often procrastination. Which, of course, leads to more stress, rather than breaking us out of the stress cycle. On the other hand, the overemphasis of Christ’s encouragement to sacrifice, without any experience of Christ’s constant presence and unconditional love for us, can lead to an over-exaggerated sense of the work before us, a distorted view of why this work is important, inner anxiety, a para­lyzing fear, and even eventual burn-out. So, neither emphasis on its own seems to bring true peace. 
Where is the realm of true peace-in­stress? We need to search for prayer that both reassures and provokes. Prayer that both calms and inspires. Relieves and emboldens. Puts our work into a proper perspective, and also enkindles our desire, and galvanizes our energy, to engage the work. This is not easy or straightforward prayer. 
As always in prayer, our primary image of God is extremely determinative here. If we see God primarily as the Great Escape, someone to whom we run to make our troubles disappear, we set up the near-certain result of disappointment and increase of stress. Jesus constantly searches in prayer for the presence and consolation of his Father, and we can see the peace and confidence with which this Presence fills Jesus, especially at stressful moments. Yet, in these prayers, Jesus rarely asks His Father to do things that make his life easier. Rather, He asks for the reassurance of God’s presence and clarification of God’s will, or often asks the Father for the ability to complete works that relieve other people’s sufferings. This understanding of his work as fitting into the plan of God, and as ultimately benefit­ing others besides himself, seems to bring Jesus true peace. 

If, on the other hand, our primary image of God is a Divine Taskmaster, who demands and accepts only our continual excellent performance while contributing little to the endeavor — and for my fellow perfectionists, this is always a temptation 
— we run the risk of praying to a God who is merely a projection of our own ambitions, or the ambitions of other authority figures in our life. That our stress is not relieved by such prayer is hardly surprising. But this God too is not to be found in the prayers of Jesus. 
Jesus’ prayer in the Garden of Gethsemane is a beautiful example of a true prayer of peace-in-stress. For it seeks peace without escapism — “Father, if this cup can be taken from me…” Yet, it also asks for the perspective and hope that makes the sacrifice asked of him meaningful: “Father, reassure me that all that is happening is of your will, and will give life to others, and that will be enough to give me peace and strength to carry it out.” Here, perhaps, is a finals week prayer that can bring us true peace. 
This week’s column is written by Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, chaplain in Campus Ministry and the ACE Program. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“After silence, that which comes nearest to expressing theinexpressible is music.” 
Aldous HuxleyEnglish critic and novelist 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Thursday, April 22, 2010 page 11 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 

Misrepresentations  Peer institutions  
In her April 21 letter “Not so friendly,” Emily live according to Catholic teachings concerning Stetler criticizes the organizers of the “Family­marriage. She also infers that Ms. O’Hare believes Friendly Petition” for relying “on inadequate theo­that “married students, by virtue of their marital  suspicious of HEI  
logical paradigms” in their effort to encourage the and parental status, are superior Catholics.” As  It has become apparent that to the administration, neither  
University to provide better health care coverage was the case with Mr. Campbell’s quote, Jamie  National Labor Relations Board complaints nor the testimony  
for spouses and children of graduate students. O’Hare makes neither of these arguments. Ms.  of workers is a legitimate cause for ethical concern over  
What these “inadequate theological paradigms” O’Hare does not even obliquely suggest that the  investments in HEI. So, let’s consider something more basic.  
may be is unclear, since the three examples that University should not take care of students and  No waking Domer could deny that the University strives to  
Emily Stetler offers do not reflect the actual opin­employees who are not married and she does not  compete with her peers. She funnels money into research,  
ions of the organizers, but positions that she state that married students are morally superior  fertilizer for the lawn where Notre Dame students are on  
attributes to the organizers by taking their state-Catholics. She does, admittedly, argue that the  hunger strike, financial aid, fancy dinners, tie-dye, teaching  
ments out of context and making unfair infer-Catholic Church teaches that those who are mar- and beyond. Higher rankings ensue. Better yet, Notre Dame  
ences. As a consequence, in arguing against the ried should be open to children, but this is a far  ventures beyond the territory of its peers to the meeting point  
supposed “inadequate theological paradigms” of cry from claiming that those graduate students  of Catholic identity and competitive rankings. A 2007-08  
the organizers, Ms. Stetler criticizes positions that who are not married, whether because they are  Notre Dame Magazine article praised the “stricter ethical  
no one, in fact, advocates. single or have celibate vocations, are inferior to  guidelines” of Notre Dame’s investments compared to her  
In her first example of the inadequate theologi­married students. And while Ms. O’Hare does not  peers. Notre Dame uses the U.S. Catholic bishops’ Socially  
cal paradigms, Ms. Stetler quotes Peter Campbell say one way or another, I hope that she would  Responsible Investment Guidelines, which read in part:  
who says that graduate students who work long agree that the University should not discriminate  “USCCB will promote and support shareholder resolutions to  
hours and also strive to be good parents are “a against those married couples who do not have  promote generous wage and benefit policies and adequate  
perfect symbol of the kind of values that the children, whether because of deliberate choice or  worker safety guidelines.” For what it’s worth, I’m comforted  
University wants to instill in its undergrads.” From biological limitations.  Notre Dame accepts these clear-cut standards.  
this, Ms. Stetler infers, based on what I do not In her final argument, Ms. Stetler accuses Mr.  Still, there is room for improvement in implementing them.  
know, that Mr. Campbell believes that the Campbell of denying that Catholic moral teaching  While Notre Dame stands idly, two respected peers have  
University should encourage students to “live includes “ministering to the lonely, working for  expressed qualms about labor practices at HEI Hotels &  
compassionate and moral lives” only within the economic justice and respecting natural  Resorts. Brown President Ruth Simmons sent a letter to HEI  
confines of marriage. If Peter Campbell had resources,” because Mr. Campbell claims that part  expressing concern over alleged labor law violations. Yale,  
expressed this opinion, Ms. Stetler would have of the Catholic teaching is that married couples  respecting Simmons’ judgment, committed to investigating  
every reason to be upset, but, alas, Mr. Campbell should, if able, procreate. Yet Mr. Campbell, by  the allegations against HEI and reconsidering the investment  
said nothing of the sort. Ms. Stetler here is argu­stating part of the Catholic moral teaching, does  relationship.  
ing less against a straw man than a chimera. not attempt to deny other parts of Catholic doc- Notre Dame can appeal to Catholic identity when it wants to  
Ms. Stetler then quotes Jamie O’Hare who states trine as Ms. Stetler supposes, anymore than Ms.  depart from its peers’ practices. But our unique adherence to  
that at Notre Dame many married graduate stu-Stetler herself intends to deny Catholic traditions  Catholic principles should have made Notre Dame the first  
dents “will be bearing children, or they’re not fol-concerning peace, charity and equality when she  among them to press HEI for better wages, benefits and  
lowing Church teaching. I think it fits with Notre invokes the teachings on ministering to the lonely  worker safety. How can we stop sanitizing the demands of  
Dame’s Catholic mission to not make following and economic justice. Rather, he is doing nothing  Catholic morality when they run contrary to Our Lady’s busi- 
Church teaching a burden.” In other words, Jamie more than highlighting one single thread of a rich  ness relationships?  
O’Hare reasons from the premise that Catholic garment. In fact, not only does Mr. Campbell not  The point: In this case, Notre Dame doesn’t even need to  
married couples should be open to children, reduce the Catholic moral tradition to a single  invoke Catholic Social Teaching or the USCCB in order to do  
which is a requisite for being married in the precept, he seems to be implicitly invoking the  the right thing. Merely seeking to compete with our peer  
Catholic Church, to the conclusion that a Catholic Catholic teachings about economic justice when  institutions is enough to warrant a reconsideration of our  
university should make being open to children less he argues that the University should help all of the  relationship with HEI. The broad road we’re on leads to a  
of a burden for its own students who are married. members of her large family obtain adequate  land that is neither Catholic nor in accord with what is  
Yet in this reasonable (although, perhaps, unfortu­health care.  admirable about our peers.  
nately-worded) argument, Ms. Stetler senses far  
more nefarious undertones: Namely, that Jamie Joseph Nawrocki  Kristi Haas  
O’Hare believes that the University should have, graduate student  senior  
as one of the “criteria” for whom they “take care” off campus  off campus  
of, the requirement that employees and students April 21  April 21  

EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The Observer 
Scene

page 12 Thursday, April 22, 2010 

PEMCo.’s production. One student needs to get out. He heard about By ADRIANA PRATT asked him for advice on how to the film during his senior year and Associate Scene Editor make it in the acting world and his scored a role as a drug dealer who 
response struck a chord with becomes the woman’s best friend. 
What does an industrial design Carter. “American Covet” was shot in major do after graduation? Pursue “Jason said, ‘when I was a South Bend and is set for release in an acting career, of course. When younger guy I used to come up with September. Kyle Carter, a 2009 Notre Dame this elaborate answer, but in the He also won MTV’s “King of graduate, realized the only time he end if you wake up in the morning Spring Break” last year, singing felt alive and excited was on stage, and literally everything else sucks “America the Beautiful” in Panama he knew what he was destined to but performing, then you’re sup-City Beach, Fla. His prize included do. posed to be a performer and you’re a Rock Band game set signed by 
“It was the middle of senior year going to do what you need to do to Kid Cudi, Asher Rother and ... and we were at a design confer-become that,’” Carter recalled. N.E.R.D. ence in Minneapolis, and I’m look-Carter recently auditioned to play Carter hopes to model his career ing at everyone and how happy Jafar in “Aladdin” on a off actors Taye Diggs and Will they were to be drawing, like ‘Yes Mediterranean Disney cruise ship. Smith, to whom he bears a striking I’m going to be a project designer During his interview with The resemblance. for the rest of my life! This is what I Observer, he still had a Jafar-esque “Everyone says I’m ‘Hitch,’” want to do.’ And I’m just sitting skinny beard hanging from his Carter said. “If they ever do a biog-there falling asleep,” Carter told chin. He won’t hear back from the raphy movie about Will Smith, I The Observer. “The first thing I audition for another month or two, could easily be his character. I’m couldn’t wait to do was go to the but he said he wants to make sure almost exactly 20 years younger Target Center because Britney he looks the part if he gets a call-than him ... I wish I could be his Spears was playing that night. back. brother but unfortunately the world 
“I realized that the only aspect of “Auditioning is my favorite part doesn’t work that way sometimes.” industrial design that I enjoyed of the process because no one Now, Carter is living in South doing was presenting my project to knows anything about you yet,” Bend and working at the Hammes the company.” Carter said. “They look you up and Notre Dame Bookstore. He has also 
Carter did not pursue a degree in down, and from what I’ve heard helped out with the PEMCo. shows Film, Television and Theatre at from all the people in the industry, “Company” and “Parade,” and Notre Dame but did take on an literally 95 percent of your battle is coached the Howard Hall Ducks Italian minor so he could partici-what you look like when you get to onto a football championship in the pate in the theatrical performances. the audition because they will cast fall. He stayed in the area because While at Notre Dame, he also acted you just out of the fact that you look it was cheap to live here, but he in PEMCo. shows, taking the lead like what you want.” plans to move to Los Angeles at the role in both “Ragtime” and “Kiss If the Disney gig doesn’t work out, end of this year if he doesn’t get the Me Kate.” Carter’s got back-up plans. He cre-Jafar or “Glee” roles. 
But it was not until the middle of ated an audition tape for “Glee” “In the end, Broadway is what I’d this year that Carter finally realized (check out his facebook page “Kyle like to do more than anything else, he wanted to be an actor. + Glee = Awesome”) and hopes his but I really don’t care,” Carter said. 
“I had kind of been wavering, not video will be shown to the Glee “I’m the kind of person that as long knowing what to do,” Carter said. casting director. as there’s a camera and an audi-
That all changed when Jason Carter already has a film under ence, that’s good enough for me.” Robert Brown, writer of the his belt called “American Covet,” Broadway musical “Parade,” visited an indie picture about a South Contact Adriana Pratt at Notre Dame’s campus to watch Bend girl who’s going nowhere and apratt@nd.edu 

ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scene

Thursday, April 22, 2010 page 13 
“Sherlock Holmes,” DeBartolo 101, 10 p.m. 
Somewhat of a departure from the traditional “Sherlock Holmes” books by author Sir Arthur Conan Doyle, the most recent adaptation finds Holmes and his assistant, Dr. Watson, at a bit of a crossroads. Having successfully wrapped a diffi­cult case involving a serial killer, Watson is ready to leave the busi­ness in anticipation of his impending marriage to his fiancé. Yet the two are back at it when the serial killer rises from the dead and resumes his killing spree. As with any chapter in the “Sherlock Holmes” story, the film is full of intrigue and mystery. It also stars an excellent cast, including Robert Downey Jr., Jude Law and Rachel McAdams. 
The Shirt Unveiling, Bookstore, 4 p.m. 
The highly anticipated revealing of “The Shirt” will occur Friday evening. Festivities begin at 4 
p.m. outside of the Bookstore. The unveiling is at 5:45 p.m., but before that several campus groups are expected to perform including the Notre Dame marching band, Glee Club and Harmonia. There will also be a special appearance by Office Tim McCarthy as well as an appearance by new football coach Brian Kelly. T-shirts will be $11 for students, but you may only purchase two. Be sure to come out with your friends, enjoy some free food and drinks and celebrate the kick off of a great new football season. 
Parachute with the Carter Twins, Legends, 10 p.m. 
A pop rock band hailing from Charlottesville, Va., Parachute released its debut album, “Losing Sleep,” in May 2009. The album debuted at No. 40 on the Billboard Top 200, and nearly a year later the group is still going strong. The band’s most well known song, “She Is Love,” will be familiar to pop rock fans. Parachute will be joined by the Carter Twins at Legends Saturday night. Comprised of two brothers from Akron, Ohio, the group has a country vibe and its single “Heart Like Memphis” reached No. 54 on Billboard’s Hot Country Songs. Following the show, stick around for the infamous Hip Hop Night. 

“As You Like It,” DPAC, 2 p.m. 
The Notre Dame Shakespeare Festival will present “As You Like It ” in the Philbin Studio Theatre at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Directed by visiting artist and renowned Shakespearean actor Tim Hardy, the show features Notre Dame students and mem­bers of the Michiana communi­ty. With a twisting plot full of “Banished brothers, wandering lovers, mistaken identities, an angry lion, and a wily clown,” the show is sure to be the height of Shakespearean enter­tainment. Tickets are $18 for the general public, $15 for fac­ulty, staff and seniors and $10 for students. 
Contact Genna McCabe at gmccabe@nd.edu 

By COURTNEY COX 
Scene Writer 
The music festival Coachella took over the valley of Indio, Calif., last weekend and left behind much more than memo­ries of amazing shows. It seems that in the past years pictures of celebrities at Coachella have been popping up all over the place. Celebrities like Jake Gyllenhal, Reese Witherspoon, Drew Barrymore, Justin Long and Ki rsten something Dunst have indescrib­attended able about the festival the way in recent she dress-years. That es. It is what seems as m a k e s though she Coachella is just such a effortlessly magnet for this cool. fashion. It’s K a t e three short Bosworth, 



days, but the celebrities in atten­
dance know they will be pho­tographed, so they dress to impress. What these famous faces wear defines what is chic enough for the following summer. These clips are just a sample of the fashions seen at Coachella this year. 
Alexa Chung, seen here attending the Lacoste party, has shot into the fashion spotlight because her originality and her British charm makes her downright delightful . She sported a silk romper, espadrilles, a light shirt and an over­the-shoulder bag to this year’s festival. Her style can be emulated but never 
real­ly repeated because there’s just pictured here with 

Alexander Skarsgard, exudes that hip California vibe that Coachella is famous for. She chose to wear a loose-fitting tie-dye halter dress, gladia­tor sandals and a slouchy purse. Her outfit is the perfect blend of practicality and taste necessary for a music festival. Her style can be easi­ly replicated because she hasn’t chosen to wear anything out­landish — just simple clothes that look good and are com­
fortable, which is all 
you can ask for during a scorch­
ing hot day in the desert. 
A miss this year would have to be Whitney Port. While she does have enough style to land her a job at Diane von Furstenberg, she didn’t quite show it here. Wearing some kind of weird bathing suit top and extremely high waisted silk shorts, she looked as though she was trying way too hard. The outfit just didn’t make sense, at least not for the venue. 
Good, bad or really ugly, Coachella had plenty to offer this year for the fashion conscious observer. 


Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 
ANDREA ARCHER | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Thurrsday, April 22, 2010 
NFL 

League suspends Roethlisberger for six games 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — The NFL cracked down on one of its stars Wednesday, suspending Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger for not just a few games but the first six of the season, even though he avoided sexual assault charges in Georgia. 
The two-time Super Bowl winner was banned without pay for violating the NFL’s per­sonal conduct policy and was ordered to undergo a “compre­hensive behavioral evaluation by professionals.” 
NFL commissioner Roger Goodell handed down the pun­ishment a week after prosecu­tors decided not to charge Roethlisberger in a case involv­ing a 20-year-old college stu­dent who accused him of sexu­ally assaulting her in a Milledgeville, Ga., nightclub last month. 
“I recognize that the allega­tions in Georgia were disputed and that they did not result in criminal charges being filed against you,” Goodell said in his letter to the six-year veter­an. 
“My decision today is not based on a finding that you vio­lated Georgia law, or on a con­clusion that differs from that of the local prosecutor. That said, you are held to a higher stan­dard as an NFL player, and there is nothing about your conduct in Milledgeville that can remotely be described as admirable, responsible, or con­sistent with either the values of the league or the expectations of our fans.” 
Goodell said team offseason activities were off limits to the quarterback until he completes the evaluation and is cleared by the league to rejoin the Steelers. 
“Your conduct raises suffi­cient concerns that I believe effective intervention now is the best step for your personal and professional welfare,” Goodell wrote. 
Trade rumors immediately swirled, and while the Steelers declined to address the specu­lation, they were privately weighing whether they should consider dealing their franchise quarterback for a Top 10 draft pick if one were offered. 
Sitting out all six games would cost Roethlisberger an estimated $2.8 million, though the penalty could be shortened to four games for good behav­ior. 
Roethlisberger is the first player suspended by Goodell under the conduct policy who hasn’t been arrested or charged with a crime. 
Roethlisberger also is being sued by a woman who accused him of raping her at a Lake Tahoe hotel-casino in 2008. He denied the allegation and was­n’t charged. 
“In your six years in the NFL, you have first thrilled and now disappointed a great many peo­ple,” Goodell wrote. “I urge you to take full advantage of this opportunity to get your life and career back on track.” 
Goodell said the league’s con­duct policy gave him the right to impose discipline regardless of whether Roethlisberger broke the law. 
Before acting, Goodell said he interviewed Roethlisberger on April 13 and talked to current and former players and the players’ union. He also reviewed information from the Georgia Bureau of Investigation and Milledgeville police and talked privately with Georgia district attorney Fred Bright. In addition, Goodell said he lis­tened to recommendations from the quarterback’s repre­sentatives, and took into account information learned by the NFL office regarding the alleged assault. 
The Steelers said Roethlisberger was unavailable for comment. His agent, Ryan Tollner, said he planned to respond later. 
In a statement to police, the college student said Roethlisberger encouraged her, and her friends, to take numer­ous shots of alcohol. Then one of his bodyguards escorted her into a hallway at the Capital City nightclub in Milledgeville, Ga., sat her on a stool and left. She said Roethlisberger walked down the hallway and exposed himself. 
“I told him it wasn’t OK, no, we don’t need to do this and I proceeded to get up and try to leave,” she said. “I went to the first door I saw, which hap­pened to be a bathroom.” 


According to her statement, Roethlisberger then followed her into the bathroom and shut the door. 
“I still said no, this is not OK, and he then had sex with me,” she wrote. 
Two of her friends said they saw a bodyguard lead her into the hallway and then saw Roethlisberger follow. They said they couldn’t see their friend but knew she was drunk and were worried about her. 
NFL 

Polian, Colts do not plan on changing draft strategy 
Polian rarely deviates from have players here who fit that appropriate authorities decid-As for injuries, things are 
Associated Press 

his procedure, though this mold. They may not be what ed that there was no basis for looking good, too. 
INDIANAPOLIS — Colts pres-year’s draft has suddenly got-other people think fit that charges to be filed,” Polian Polian said Manning has ident Bill Polian will follow ten tricky. mold, but they fit for us.” said in a statement. “Based resumed workouts following standard operating procedure Most analysts believe Polian If the Colts aren’t looking for upon those facts, we have no offseason neck surgery and Thursday night. wants to beef up an offensive an offensive linemen first, then reason to take any action, or to safety Bob Sanders continues 
He’ll wait patiently as all line that produced the league’s there are plenty of other ways make any further comment on to progress after undergoing those other teams make draft worst rushing offense last sea-for Polian to look. this matter. Eric Foster is a season-ending surgery to picks, then select the best play-son, and he played into that After cutting left guard Ryan member of our squad and will repair a torn biceps. Receiver er left on the board when the perception by criticizing the Lilja and versatile defensive participate in our offseason Anthony Gonzalez is not yet Colts pick at No. 31. Unless, of line on his radio show in lineman Raheem Brock and program.” 100 percent, Polian said, after course, the Colts make a trade. February. losing backup quarterback Jim The good news is that the injuring his right knee in last 
Polian’s philosophy helped Indy has traditionally relied Sorgi to the New York Giants, Colts have retained all but one season’s first game. create the foundation for four on quickness, rather than size, the Colts could spend the of their restricted free agents So for the Colts, draft week-Super Bowl teams in Buffalo to keep four-time league MVP three-day draft trying to fill and the remaining deal could end will be business as usual. and two more in Indy, and he Peyton Manning on his feet and those holes. be finished soon. The list of “Every pick counts whether isn’t about to start making pave the way for 1,000-yard On Tuesday, Polian had to players who have signed one-it’s the first pick or the last changes now — even after runners. But with longtime deal with a new wrinkle when year tenders includes Daniel supplemental pick in the sev­another Super Bowl loss. offensive line coach Howard a 22-year-old woman filed a Muir and Antonio Johnson, enth round,” Polian said. “We 
“We’re going to take the best Mudd now retired, some think lawsuit accusing defensive Indy’s two starting defensive want every pick to make a con-football player to us regardless the Colts could change course tackle Eric Foster of sexual tackles, and safety Melvin tribution to our squad. Our of position,” Polian said and bring in bigger linemen. assault. Polian said Wednesday Bullitt. focus is actually greater on the Wednesday afternoon. “When “I’ve never said that,” Polian that the team would not disci-Left tackle Charlie Johnson lower rounds than it is on the you reach for need or reach for said. “I don’t know of anybody pline Foster, who was not has not yet signed his one-year first. The first-round process is the perception of need, I think around here who has said that. charged in the alleged inci-tender but Polian called it a not hard to sort out, it’s the you make a mistake. You can We have not deviated one iota dent. formality, and Polian also lower rounds that are really never have enough good foot-from our philosophy that says “The alleged incident was acknowledged the team is hav-harder to sort out. What we’re ball players and you can never we need to be athletic, we investigated by law enforce-ing “amicable” discussions going to do over the next 24 have enough difference mak-need to be smart, we need to ment officials at the time the with the agent for Pro Bowl hours is do everything so that ers.” be physical and I think we allegation was made. The safety Antoine Bethea. we can be prepared.” 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Call Holiday Inn Express @  (We will rent the house).  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  
WANTED  FOR RENT  968-8080 &amp; leave msg.  We are located eight miles from  PERSONAL  not go it alone.  
———————————————  Notre Dame.  Notre Dame has many resources in  
SUMMER WORK,  New upscale apts.  Sublet Irish Row 2bd Apt Contact  If you or someone you care about  place to assist you.  
Sam Krause- has been sexually assaulted, we  
great pay, flexible schedules, no  Less than 1 mil from ND, next to  We are registered on the Niles  can help.  If you or someone you love needs  
experience needed, customer  Taco Bell on SR 933. 2-story, 8 unit  skrause1@nd.edu, Rent Negotiable  Chamber of Commerce web site.  confidential support or assistance,  
sales/service, ages 18+,  bldg.  ———————————————  For more information, visit Notre  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819  
Graduation week/Football Season  Dame's website:  or Ann Firth at 1-2685.  
www.workforstudents.com  Each has 2bd/2bath. GE appli­ is coming - chamber@nilesmi.com.  http.csap.nd.edu  
———————————————  ances w/dishwasher.  ———————————————  For more information, visit ND's  
ND &amp; SMC Students - campus  Make reservation now with Georgia  For more info, call (269)687-8499.  more money for your textbooks,  web site:  
job - textbook buyer during finals  Mstr. bdrm w/walkin closet. No  Peach Bed and Breakfast with four  ———————————————  free dorm room pickup, fast pay- 
week - $10+/hour-dormbooks.com  water/sewer bill. $1000/mo starting.  bedroom.  gradrentals.viewwork.com  ment, dormbooks.com  http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 

Thursday, April 22, 2010 page 15 
Women’s Division I Tennis ITA Poll 
team previous 
1 North Carolina 1 2 Baylor 2 3 Florida 3 4 Michigan 4 5 NOTRE DAME 5 6 Northwestern 9 7 UCLA 7 8 Clemson 8 9 Stanford 10 10 Duke 6 11 Miami (Fla.) 11 12 California 12 13 Tennessee 14 14 Florida State 15 15 Georgia 13 16 South Carolina 18 17 Mississippi 17 18 Southern Cal 16 19 Texas 20 20 Georgia Tech 25 21 Illinois NR 22 VCU 24 23 Arizona State NR 24 South Florida 19 25 Arkansas 13 
Women’s Division I Softball ESPN.com Poll 
team previous 
1 Washington (25) 1 
2 Michigan 2 
3 Arizona 3 
4 Florida 4 
5 Alabama 5 
6 Georgia Tech 7 
7 UCLA 8 
8 Oklahoma State 9 
9 Arizona State 6 
10 Georgia 11 
11 Stanford 10 
12 Louisiana State 13 
13 Oklahoma 12 
14 Texas 15 
15 Missouri 21 
16 Oregon 14 
17 California 17 
18 Tennessee 19 
19 Illinois 18 
20 Florida State 20 
21 Texas A&M 16 
22 Massachusetts 21 
23 Hawaii 22 
24 Ohio State 25 
25 NOTRE DAME RV 


around the dial 
NFL Draft 

First Round Coverage 
7:30 p.m., ESPN 

NBA Basketball 
Lakers at Thunder 
9:30 p.m., TNT 
NBA 


Thunder’s Brooks wins Coach of the Year 
Associated Press 
OKLAHOMA CITY — Back when the Thunder were 3-29 last season, the notion of the playoffs coming to Oklahoma City any time soon was unimaginable. 
But it was that same mis­erable stretch that made general manager Sam Presti confident that coach Scott Brooks was the right man to lead his team into the future. 
While Oklahoma City struggled to the worst start in the NBA, Presti was impressed by the way Brooks stayed the course and never tried to force immediate changes in hopes of making the Thunder better. He now has taken the youngest ros­ter in the league and turned the team into a 50-game winner and a playoff team just one season after the hor­rendous start. 
For that best-in-the-NBA turnaround, Brooks was rec­ognized Wednesday as the NBA’s coach of the year. He received 71 of 123 first-place votes and 480 points to finish ahead of Milwaukee’s Scott Skiles (26 first-place votes, 313 points) and Portland’s Nate McMillan (9, 107). 
“He's someone that I think is incredibly consistent as a person. He is unaffected through adversities and also through successes, and I think that’s an important quality we want to have as we move forward,” Presti said. 
Even as he was receiving a 
IN BRIEF 
Cubs’ Piniella puts pitcher 
Zambrano into bullpen role 
NEW YORK — Lou Piniella is tired of watching his relievers blow games for the Chicago Cubs, and, boy, is he ready to do something about it. 
Piniella made a bold move Wednesday, inserting temperamental ace Carlos Zambrano into a shaky bullpen that threatened to derail Chicago's season. 
“You look at these box scores every day around baseball and these games, especially in the National League, they’re won in the sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth innings,” said Piniella, in his fourth season as the Cubs' manag­er. “There are few blowouts early. There's some obviously but not (a lot). 
“Look, this makes all the sense in the world.” 
Chicago's bullpen was 1-6 with a 
6.15 ERA and three saves in seven opportunities heading into Wednesday night’s game against the New York Mets. 

statue of Red Auerbach, Brooks faced another daunt­ing turnaround: an 0-2 deficit in the Thunder’s best-of-seven series against the defending champion Los Angeles Lakers, led by Kobe Bryant and coach Phil Jackson. 
Game 3 is Thursday night in Oklahoma City. 
“This is the first-time play­off experience for a lot of us, including myself, and you’re playing against one of the best coaches of all sports, one of the best players ever and a team that has 1,000 [games of] playoff experience to ours,” Brooks said. “But you learn from playing against the best players and the best teams, and we're going to keep fighting and figuring out ways to beat them.” 
While the Thunder didn’t immediately start winning after Brooks took over for the fired P.J. Carlesimo, there were signs of progress. His decision to move Kevin Durant from shooting guard to small forward increased his production, and the addi­tions of Thabo Sefolosha and Nenad Krstic plus defensive-minded assistant Ron Adams started to pay dividends, too. 
“We were improved once he took over as the coach. We still lost some games that were tough but we were learning and we were getting better each day in practice,” said Durant, who developed into the NBA's youngest scor­ing champion this season. 
Saints RB, former USC star 
Bush settles pending lawsuit 
SAN DIEGO — It appears Reggie Bush has reached an out-of-court set­tlement with a fledgling sports mar­keter who is trying to recoup nearly $300,000 in cash and gifts the star running back and his family allegedly accepted while he was playing at the University of Southern California. 
Depositions involving the two for­mer marketers who wooed Bush while he was at USC have been called off, attorney Brian Watkins told The Associated Press on Wednesday. 
Asked whether Bush was still scheduled to be deposed Friday, Watkins said: “I have no comment.” 
A settlement could stymie the NCAA and Pacific-10 Conference investigators, who are trying to determine whether Bush and his par­ents took improper benefits. Bush has not met with NCAA and Pac-10 investigators, and has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing. 

Woods adds two tournaments 
to upcoming spring schedule 
PONTE VEDRA BEACH, Fla. — Tiger Woods added two more tour­naments Wednesday to a schedule that is not much different from previous years except for the tim­ing. 
Woods entered The Players Championship and the AT&T National, which benefits his foun­dation. 
It was the second straight week that Woods made an early commit­ment to a PGA Tour event, allowing it more time to promote his appearance. For years, the world’s No. 1 player waited until the last few days before signing up. 
Last week, Woods beat the dead­line by eight days for entering the Quail Hollow Championship, which starts April 29. He signed up for The Players Championship, which starts May 6, nine days ahead of the deadline. 
page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, April 22, 2010 
GOLF 

Green returns to golf after losing leg in car accident 
Associated Press 
SAVANNAH, Ga. — The first big step in Ken Green’s improbable return to golf came with a severe limp, just like every step since a horrific auto accident that took the lives of his girlfriend and brother and cost Green his right leg. 
This was only a pro-am Wednesday on the Champions Tour, yet it carried so much uncertainty. 
“All right, guys,” he said qui­etly to his amateurs as he stood over his opening tee shot. “I don’t know. This might be interesting.” 
Even more beautiful than the flight of his tee shot were the ropes lining both sides of the fairway at the Savannah Harbor Golf Resort, indis­putable evidence that Green was back on the stage where some thought he might never return. 
“I do want to have fun and enjoy it,” Green said. “Because I don’t know how many times I’m going to get the chance to do this again.” 
That he is even playing in the Legends of Golf, a two-man team event that starts Friday, is nothing short of amazing. 
It was only nine months ago that Green, 51, was headed east on a Mississippi freeway when a tire blew out on his RV, sending it down an embank­ment and into an oak tree. His girlfriend, Jean Marie Hodgin, and brother, William Green, were killed, as was Nip, his beloved German Shepherd. 
Green decided to have his lower right leg amputated a week later. It was his only hope of playing golf again. 
“Golf is everything to me,” he said. 
Then came another dose of devastation. Three months into learning how to compete with a prosthetic limb that took away so much of his power, Green’s 21-year-old son, Hunter, was found dead Jan. 22 in his dorm room at SMU. An autopsy revealed a combi­nation of alcohol and prescrip­tion drugs. 
Somehow, he kept moving forward. 
“I don’t know how I managed to say, ‘OK, I’m going to still keep fighting the fight and go out there and try to play golf,’” Green said. “That’s what the Big Guy wants me to do. You do the battle. But it’s a tough one. There’s a lot of crying moments, trust me.” 
The battle is nothing new to Green. 
He says his stubbornness came from his mother, a single mom working three jobs so her son could play golf. He has done battle with the hierarchy on the PGA Tour and at Augusta National, where Green once celebrated a tee time with Arnold Palmer by drinking a beer walking up the fairway. He managed to win five times on the PGA Tour and play on a Ryder Cup team. 
A rebellious nature might have prepared him for times like these. 
“From the day I said, ‘Cut my leg,’ there was no doubt in my mind I was going to play,” Green said. “Unfortunately, the mind thinks differently than the body. But I still believe that I can do this and I can pull this off. It’s just going to be a little longer time than I probably would have liked. Realistically, it hasn’t been that long.” 
The Legends of Golf is the ideal place to start. It’s a bet-ter-ball competition over 54 holes, and he has a polar-oppo­site partner in Mike Reid, famous for being so gracious after a crushing loss in the 1989 PGA Championship. 
They were partners last year, and when Reid heard about the accident, he sent Green a text a month later that said, “We can beat most of these teams on three legs, so get your game ready.” 
Over the last two months, as Green questioned whether his game was good enough for this level, he suggested Reid find a partner who could help him. Reid would have none of it. 
“It’s easy to say fellowship is more than important than championship,” Reid said. 
Green isn’t sure what to expect. He has revamped his swing to play a draw so he can pick up extra distance. The loss of strength in his lower body means he can hit a driver only about 235 yards in the air. He no longer generates as much spin, and Green is still trying to find a comfortable stance for various chip shots. 
He shot 68 at The Breakers near his home in West Palm Beach, Fla., but that was from a forward set of tees. Once he felt more comfortable and moved back, Green said he hasn’t broken par. 
Then again, par isn’t the issue this week. 
“I’m just glad to see him back,” Hal Sutton said. “We all forget how good we have it. It’s like Jackie Burke always says, ‘Much always wants more.’ 
We’re always wanting more and not counting our blessings for the ‘much’ we have. Ken is a great example for all of us. I’m sure he has more than he thought he would.” 
Green never imagined being an inspiration to anyone, but he could feel it when he showed up in Savannah and began running into colleagues he had not seen since the acci­dent. 
“Every one of them has liter­ally said, ‘It doesn’t mean a damn thing. It’s just great that you’re here,’” Green said. “For them to say that has really eased my tension level.” 


It used to be hardly anything made Green tense. Two days before the tournament starts, he already is feeling nervous. He is worried that his game is not ready to be showcased in the same tournament as Fred Couples, Tom Watson, or the twosome he will face Friday of Mark O’Meara and Nick Price. 
But when his son died, Green realized life can take some cruel and unexpected turns. 


Thursday, April 22, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, April 22, 2010 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Bayliss, Irish to host Big East title matches 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
After a strong 7-0 victory at Navy last weekend to finish the regular season, the Irish head back to their home courts this weekend to host the Big East championships, where Irish coach Bobby Bayliss will 
oversee the tournament ’s this weekend gives the Irish (13-11) a chance to continue their positive play at home this year, as Notre Dame has gone 6-3 on its own courts. 
“The benefits of hosting are to be able to play on our own home courts and to be able to sleep in our own beds,” Bayliss said. “We expect a good crowd and believe that this will help us to be at our best. Being 

operations “We expect a good familiar with while trying to all surfaces is 
crowd and believe that
guide his team certainly a to a conference will help us to be at plus.” title. our best.” Not only are The chal -the Irish in lenge won’t be familiar terri-
Bobby Bayliss 
a new one, tory with the however, as he Irish coach comforts of 
has hosted multiple NCAA championship rounds on the Notre Dame campus while his team was also competing in them. With the help of his staff, Bayliss is more than ready for the weekend. 
“The challenges of hosting the Big East, at least for me, are greatly minimized because of the terrific support staff we have here,” he said. “Having this kind of support makes my job pretty easy.” 
With the details planned, the courts prepared and his team’s needs met, Bayliss can 
focus on Notre Dame’s goals for the week­end. 
“The goals for our team are twofold,” he said. “First come the per­formance goals. One: handle adver­sity with poise. Two: make good decisions as to when to be aggressive 
home, but they  
a r e  a l s o  s u r- 
r o u nd e d  w i t h  w e ll-k n o w n  
faces.  

The Irish have won their last two matches, one at home against Ball State and, most recently, at Navy. In both events, Notre Dame was able to grab the doubles point early in the match for a jump-start into singles competition. The Irish are 10-1 on the sea­son when capturing the dou­bles point, which they know will be tough against Georgetown (10 -11), their first-round opponent. 

“The challenges of hosting the Big East, at least for me, are greatly minimized because of the terrifc support staff we have here.” 
Bobby Bayliss Irish coach 
and when to keep the ball in play. Three: at the appropri­ate time, be willing to pull the trigger.” 
Being on their home courts will definitely make the week­end easier on the Irish, who have spent much of the sea­son on the road battling a dif­ficult schedule. Most of all, 
“I have not seen Georgetown play this year, but they beat Navy 5-2 recently, so we are familiar with that level,” Bayliss said. “They are well coached by Gordie Ernst, someone I have known for 30 or more years, so I 
expect a team with sound doubles preparation and a very feisty attitude.” 
Notre Dame will face Georgetown Friday at 9 a.m. in the first round of the Big East championships. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
ND TRACK AND FIELD 

Notre Dame hits the road 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will compete at the Drake Relays and the Hillsdale Relays this weekend in what will be their final competitions before partici­pating in the Big East champi­onships next week at Cincinnati. 
“The key to success this weekend will be staying focused,” sophomore thrower Michael Smigelski said. “Some members of our team are going to be spread out over a couple of meets, and some will be at home. It’s important for everyone to keep a good mind set for the Big East meet, even if the people aren’t necessarily competing this weekend.” 

Smigelski threw 46.25 meters in the men’s hammer last weekend, and he is look­ing to continue the success he has had all season when he competes this weekend. 
“I’m really hoping to get a personal record,” Smigelski said. “I’ve had a pretty good week of practice, and I feel like the weightlifting has been eased up so that we can final­ly perform at our best.” 
Notre Dame had a success­ful weekend when it traveled to Purdue and the Mt. SAC Relays. Six Irish athletes picked up a first-place finish Saturday. 
Freshman Rebecca Tracy won the women’s 800 meter competition and junior Marissa Treece picked up top honors in the women’s 1500. Senior Eric Quick topped the list in the men’s triple jump. Junior Miklos Szebeny placed first in the men’s 100, senior Balazs Molnar won the men’s 400 hurdles and senior Joanna Schultz won the women’s 400 hurdles. 
The Big East championships will be held Friday through Sunday as the Irish hope to bring home another trophy in what has already been a rewarding season. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
NHL 

Devils look to keep series alive 
Associated Press 
NEWARK, N.J. — After only four games, Martin Brodeur shaved his playoff beard in an attempt to change the luck of the suddenly desperate New Jersey Devils. 
About 90 miles down the turn­pike, the fortunes of the star goalie and the rest of his team­mates took a more tangible turn for the better on Wednesday when the Philadelphia Flyers announced that top forwards Jeff Carter and Simon Gagne would both miss Game 5 due to right foot injuries. 
Both players were hurt when struck by shots on Tuesday night during the Flyers’ 4-1 victory. Philadelphia general manager Paul Holmgren said the players would have surgery on Friday. Gagne’s recovery time is expect­ed to be about three weeks. Carter, who recently returned from a broken left foot, will be on crutches for six weeks and is like­ly to be out for the playoffs. 

Whether that will be enough to help New Jersey remains to be seen. 
The Devils trail the first-round, Eastern Conference series 3-1 and need to win Thursday at home to extend the season. If they do, they will face elimination again Sunday in Philadelphia and will try to force the series back to New Jersey for Game 7. 
If not, the No. 2-seeded Devils will have to deal with the reality that despite great regular-season success, they will have been oust­ed in the first round for the third straight year. 
“We definitely are in a tough spot and we have to react accordingly,” Brodeur said after practice. “It’s doable. You want to force them to try to close it out in their building. It’s tough to do. You start taking a game here and a game there, it gets a little tighter.” 
The Devils’ dressing room still had a pall over it as it did Tuesday in Philadelphia when the Flyers rallied from a 1-0 deficit to win to seize control of the series. New Jersey scored only three goals in the two road losses — none at even strength. 
As big a concern for New Jersey is the fact that it has dropped eight of 10 games to the division-rival Flyers. The Devils will need to beat them three straight times to advance to the second round. The Atlantic Division-champion Devils haven’t won three consecutive games against anyone since a five-game run in December. 



Thursday, April 22, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Alexander’s Grill, He Went to Jared advance 
By ALLAN JOSEPH and 
ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writers 
In a thrilling contest, Street Ball Killaz pushed the top team in the Bookstore Basketball tour­nament to the brink of elimina­tion before falling 21-19 to fail to advance past the round of 16. 
Alexander’s Grill, composed of juniors Dan Crisman and Sean Reed along with seniors Sean Reed, Tim Andree and Nick “We knew these guys were age shots. The lead stretched to Fessler, appeared to match up tough — they beat a high seed 8-3 before Alexander’s Grill well with Street Ball in terms of the other night,” Crisman said. began to settle down, especially size, with the 6-foot-8 Andree “We knew this was going to be a on the offensive end. The providing a suitable counterpart tough one coming in.” favorites began to be more to Street Ball’s slightly taller Street Ball started the game patient with the ball and work sophomore Taylor Williams. slowly, working the ball around for better shots, getting more of Junior Adam Dobrzykowski and on offense until Breveard could them to fall and beginning to sophomores Zac Cook, Brad find an open man, while close the gap. Street Ball, howev-Kendall and J.T. Breveard round-Alexander’s Grill pushed the ball er, continued to shoot the ball at ed out the Street Ball squad, down the court and looked for a very high accuracy and took an demonstrating an athleticism quick shots. Street Ball jumped 11-7 lead and all of the momen­comparable to Alexander’s Grill, out to an early 5-1 lead on the tum into halftime. who expected a tough matchup. strength of some high-percent-“They came out in the first half 


lights-out,” Crisman said. “I think they hit just about every shot they took.” 
The second half was dominat­ed by an intense individual strug­gle between Reed and Breveard —each guarding the other on the perimeter and going point-for­point at times. Reed opened the second half with a bang, driving to the hoop and feeding DeMott for an easy layup. He followed that effort with two more scores of his own to quickly cut the Alexander’s Grill deficit to just one point. 
Breveard, however, sparked another Street Ball run in which Alexander’s Grill could get noth­ing to fall while Street Ball con­tinued its accurate shooting. Reed would not let his team fall too far behind. Feeling a sense of urgency on the offensive end to keep pace with Breveard’s torrid shooting, Reed cut the deficit to as little as one point on a banked-in, long-range jump shot. 
Street Ball appeared to have the game in hand at 19-17, when Breveard stole the ball from Reed and had a 2-on-1 situation with Williams. Breveard fed his big man with an alley-oop pass. Williams caught the ball, stretched, and missed the dunk, with Crisman recovering the rebound for a huge Alexander’s Grill break. 


On the next Street Ball posses­sion, Reed violently blocked Breveard’s shot to spark a fast break. This sequence of plays shifted the momentum complete­ly to Alexander’s Grill, who promptly tied the game 19-19. Both teams locked down on defense while both offenses sput­tered. Alexander’s Grill missed multiple free throws, while Breveard was called for traveling on an open breakaway. In the end, Andree and Reed were able to sink free throws at the end to push the top seed into the round of eight on the strength of Reed’s MVP performance. 
“Sean was huge. We knew he had a mismatch all day,” Crisman said. “He’s a tough guy to guard, no matter who you put on him.” 
He Went to Jared 22, The Firm 20 
He Went to Jared used a strong first half and a late push in the second to move on to the round of eight as the No. 2 seed. 
He Went to Jared consisted of second-year graduate students Chuck Flynn and Brendan Bush, first-year graduate student Fritz Shadley, senior Alex Shadley and sophomore Chris Jung. 
“We’re team He Went to Jared because Chuck just got engaged, and Chuck went to Jared,” Bush said. 
The Firm fell behind 11-7 at halftime but played inspired bas­ketball throughout the second half. The team was made up of sophomore Mike Renner and freshmen Gary Hunt, Matt Huber, Will Reising and Steve Conway. 
Conway’s strong outside shot powered a comeback for The Firm. That, along with a more aggressive approach defensively, allowed them to eventually tie the game 16-16. 
“We came out and played hard,” Reising said. “Our size kind of hurt us. Steve kept us in the game with some jumpers late in the game. It was our first experience in Bookstore and it was a good experience for us.” 
The teams traded baskets all the way to a 20-20 score, forcing overtime. At that point, Shadley picked up a crucial offensive rebound and put it back up to give He Went to Jared the lead again. 
After the biggest defensive stop of the game, He Went to Jared came back and clinched the vic­tory with another lay-in after an offensive rebound. This time it was Flynn coming up with the big play. 
Flynn was the most consistent player for He Went to Jared, as he had double-digit rebounds, several of which came on the offensive end. 
“Our bread and butter is our defense. We had a sense of urgency when it was 20-20,” Bush said. “The other team played awesome. They’re fresh­men, but they were tough.” 
He Went to Jared advances to the next round and will play at 7 
p.m. tonight. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu and Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 

page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, April 22, 2010 
SMC SOFTBALL BASEBALL 
Belles split with rival Hope in doubleheader 
By KEVIN BALDWIN 
Sports Writer 
Quickly approaching the final stretch of the season, the Belles split a doublehead­er at conference rival Hope Wednesday. 
“They’re always a really tough team. They play hard every time,” Belles coach Erin Sullivan said of the Flying Dutch. “Their first pitcher was tough and they did a good job of adjusting to us. Game two was a real battle, they didn’t go out without a fight.” 
The Belles (19 -15, 8-4 MIAA) took the first game 8­4, capitalizing on a rally at the plate between the second and fourth innings that exhausted the starting Hope pitcher. Saint Mary’s held the Dutch on defense with great support form sophomore pitcher Monica Palicki, who notched her 10th win of the year. 
However, the momentum ran short in Game 2, as Hope managed to come out with the 5-4 victory. Though the Belles had a consistent performance in the field, they struggled to keep up on offense and put runs on the board. 
“It was one of those games where someone had to win, someone had to lose, it was such a battle,” Sullivan said. “The home runs hurt us — we left too many people on base. Angela coming out today ... took a lot of mental toughness for her after last year.” 
Sophomore Angela Gillis was out for redemption after pitching in both games against Hope last year, both of which the Belles surren­dered. 
Senior Ashley Peterson, who was recently recognized as the MIAA Player of the Week, added her name to the Saint Mary’s record books. Peterson belted two of her nine in Wednesday’s games to secure sole possession of the single season homerun record. 
“Hope’s a great team. We would have preferred the sweep, but Olivet, Calvin — they’re the team’s we’re sup­posed to beat,” Sullivan said. 
Saint Mary’s will have a week off before taking the field again against Calvin at home on April 28. With only two contests remaining in conference play, the Belles hope to gain a high seed for the start of the MIAA tourna­ment on May 6. 
Contact Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwi2@nd.edu 

Irish fall to Michigan 13-1 
By JARED JEDICK 
Sports Writer 
After playing Michigan to a close 3-2 loss in Ann Arbor Tuesday, Notre Dame was not able to follow up on the momentum they had been building and dropped a clunker to Michigan at home. 
“It is a shame that we played as poorly as we did tonight, because we had played so well up until today,” Irish coach Dave Schrage said. “I really thought that we were gaining some momentum going into this weekend.” 
Things started to go wrong for the Irish (15-21, 5-7 Big East) in the first inning, despite sophomore starter Steve Sabatino striking out the first two batters he faced from the Wolverines (24-12, 6-3 Big Ten). When Michigan junior outfielder Ryan LaMarre reached base after an errant throw to first base resulted in junior first-baseman David Casey stepping off the bag, things came unglued for Notre Dame. That error was followed up by two Wolverine singles to score a run and put two run­ners on for senior first-base­man Mike Dufek’s bases-clear­ing triple. Dufek then scored on a single from sophomore first baseman Garrett Stephens to make the score 4-0 right off the bat. 

“That first inning is a micro-Veerkamp. Veerkamp and Mills cosm of our whole year,” had the best outings of the Schrage said. night, with Mills pitching one 
Sabatino was removed after scoreless inning and Veerkamp 
2/3 of an inning  tossing  two  
and  replaced  s c o r e l e s s  
with freshman r i g h t -h a n d e r Adam Norton.  “I really thought that we were gaining  innings to close out the game. The Irish final- 
Norton went 3 and one-third innings and  momentum going into this weekend.”  ly got on the scoreboard with one out in the  
gave hits,  up  four one  Dave Schrage  ninth inning on a sacrifice fly  
earned  run,  Irish coach  from third base- 

and two walks. 

The Irish gave up all 13 of the Wolverine’s runs with two outs. 
“If I had the answer for you, then I’d try to stop it, but it has continued all season,” Schrage said. “I mean we have played 37 games now and it has con­tinued all year with two out runs, and it usually starts with an error. Just like it did in the first inning with a routine ball we should make.” 
The tough outing continued with two more runs given up in the sixth inning, as well as six runs given up in the seventh for a score of 13-0. 
The Irish sent out six pitchers over the course of the game, including senior left-hander David Mills, senior right-hander Eric Maust, sophomore left-hander Joe Spano, junior left-hander Joe Spizzirri and fresh­man right-hander Patrick man Greg 
Sherry that 
scored center-fielder Ryne Intlekofer from third base. That would be the extent of the scoring. 
The Irish are now shifting their focus to conference play, as they take on Cincinnati (19­16, 4-8 Big East) this weekend. 
“We have been focusing on the conference to be honest with you,” Schrage said. “Last weekend we were totally focus­ing on getting back in the race.” 
Schrage said his team was beginning to focus on the con­ference tournament as well. 
“It definitely can happen,” Schrage said. “That is all we have to play for right now.” 
The Irish host Cincinnati for a three-game series starting Friday at 6:05 p.m. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 


Thursday, April 22, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 
Hoyas 
continued from page 24 
Kubinski said. “They just did a great job. They fought so hard, showed so much heart and guts, and they just hung in there. I was really proud of the way we finished.” 
Entering the final round of play in fifth place, eight strokes behind Georgetown, the Irish mounted a tremen­dous comeback just to put themselves in position to take home the title. Led by sophomore Tom Usher’s 2­under 69, Notre Dame turned in the lowest score of the tournament at 286. 
The comeback was necessi­tated by a dismal first round score of 299, a product of heavy rains and soggy turf that plagued the first pair­ings of the day. 
“It was a tough break get­ting paired in the early pair­ing by a blind draw on Sunday,” Kubinski said. “We played almost nine holes in pouring rain. After that we played better than anybody. It was just dumb luck, just chance that we went out early in the rain and they [Hoyas] didn ’t have to do that and they beat us by one.” 
Despite the setback, the Irish went on to card the lowest scores of the tourna­ment over the next 36 holes at 289 and 286, respectively. But the Hoyas responded to the pressure like champions. 
“I give them a lot of credit because on the last hole they made five tremendous pars,” Kubinski said. “Three great up-and-downs, and a really clutch putt by Salina, the eight-footer to win it. You got to tip your cap to them.” 
Several Irish players keyed the two-round rally at the Innisbrook Resort and Golf Club. Sophomore Max Scodro 
(73) finished at 2-over Tuesday after turning in the lowest score of the tourna­ment through 54 holes. While seniors Josh Sandman and Doug Fortner turned in their best scores on the final round, Kubinski said a victo­ry would have been the proper way to cap their exceptional careers. 
“I just feel bad because it’s a little bittersweet, ” Kubinski said. “They’ve done so much for our program and I know they didn’t go out the way they hoped to. They battled hard yesterday, and they really left every­thing they had out there for Notre Dame.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish set to renew rivalry with Ohio State 
game, senior captain Gina offense. Scioscia credited her 2009 campaign in which she often against Cincinnati due 
By CHRIS ALLEN 

Scioscia paced the Irish with team’s fast start to their focus was named to the IWLCA All-to spectacular ball control by 
Sports Writer 

her best game of the season, on draw controls. America Second Team. the Irish, Hilling has been a scoring three goals and “We were winning the draw, Scioscia said Thursday’s standout during Notre Dame’s 
The Big East has been kind adding four assists in the Irish which is always step one,” matchup should renew a four-game win streak and to the No. 12 Irish, who are 5-rout. Scioscia said. “From there we rivalry that extends across all hopes to keep up that stellar 1 in conference play this sea-“It felt great to have such a just stayed composed under sports and adds intensity to play as the Irish near the son and find themselves rid-good game on senior day,” their pressure and didn’t the contest. homestretch. ing a four-game conference Scioscia said. “But it’s even force anything.” “There’s definitely some in-“She’s important because win streak. But Notre Dame better that the team just came Against the Buckeyes, the region rivalry and it’s always she’s our last line of defense,” will venture outside the Big out and played together, the Irish will look to maintain the a fight against them,” Scioscia Scioscia said. “She’ll be great East to play a non-conference way we know how to.” momentum from the last few said. “They’re a scrappy — she has kept us going back opponent when it heads to Scioscia and freshman weeks before they head into a team, so we need to come out there all season.” Columbus to take on No. 18 Jenny Granger led an early critical road stretch against ready from the first whistle.” The Irish and the Buckeyes Ohio State. run that saw the Irish jump Rutgers and Connecticut. The Hagerty and her teammates square off Thursday in 
The Irish (9-6, 5-1 Big East) out to an 11-2 lead at half-Buckeyes (8-5) are led by sen-will have to contend with the Columbus at 5 p.m. will be playing their first time, as Cincinnati struggled ior attack Kelly Hagerty, who dominant presence of Irish game since Saturday’s 15-5 to gain control of the ball leads the team with 62 points freshman goalie Ellie Hilling. Contact Chris Allen at win over Cincinnati. In that against the dominant Irish on the season following a Though she wasn’t tested very callen10@nd.edu 

page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Thursday, April 22, 2010 
Balance 
continued from page 24 
competitive.” 
Kelly said the special teams play would be the only main difference in rules. All punts will be fair catches, and field goals and extra point attempts will not be blocked. Additionally, Each drive will start on the 30-yard line rather than having a kickoff to start play. Other than that, Kelly said, it will be like a nor­mal game. 
“We want to run the first half as a game situation, we’ll go in at half and we’ll assess where we are at that point and then come out in the sec­ond half,” he said. “All things will be the same, the differ­ence maybe we may run the clock third or fourth quarter depending on where we are.” 
Quarterback Dayne Crist, who was questionable for the Blue-Gold Game due to his continuing recovery from knee surgery, will play “every sin­gle snap,” Kelly said. However, Crist and the rest of the quarterbacks will wear red jerseys, which indicate that they are not to be hit. 
“I think it’s important where we are right now, we need all hands on deck,” Kelly said. “And we’re moving some peo­ple around on the offensive line, so I need to be judicious and not set these guys up for 
Brophy 
continued from page 24 
individual medalist of the tournament. 
Brophy’s play was hardly a surprise, as she finished with the top individual honor in 2008. 
“Annie got it done,” Holt said. “She had a realistic chance of winning the [indi­vidual] championship again.” 
Brophy found her stride in the second round, when she finished at even par — an eight-shot improvement from the first round that allowed the team to gain some ground. 
During the first round, some hits that they really shouldn’t take, so the quarter­backs will not be live.” 
Overall, the game will be lit­tle more than an extra prac­tice for the team, which will not have another chance to work together until summer session begins in June. 
“For me to be in the Stadium on the spring game will be pretty cool,” Kelly said. “But other than that it’s really about giving these guys anoth­er chance to be on the field and learn more about what we’re trying to do here. We’ve made really good progress.” 
Note: 
Sophomore guard Chris Watt spent time at the center posi­tion Wednesday, delivering snaps for the first time in his career. Kelly said he was keeping his options open for the center position. 
“If anybody else is interested in snapping the football, one of the things in our offense is we’re always looking for cen­ters,” Kelly said. “We’re just trying to get some technique when we go into the summer, it’s another skill that he can work on. He’s a tough physical kid. He’s got a low center of gravity. He may be a center down the road; we just want­ed to give him something to work on going into the sum­mer.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
heavy rains and wind rav­aged play and adversely affected the golfers. The Irish struggled during the deluge in the first round, but sopho­more Katie Allare helped keep the team afloat with a 7-over 78. The champi ­onships marked the first time Allare broke the starting five, and she made the most of it, ending the first round tied for third overall. 
Louisville claimed the over­all title, finishing 16 strokes ahead of the Irish. South Florida took second. 
Not guaranteed a bid in the NCAA regionals, Notre Dame will learn its postseason fate Monday. 
Contact Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 
Valpo 
continued from page 24 
said. “We were not looking to take them for granted because they have put up some good numbers this season, and they backed it up. We did a good job at focusing on the task at hand and making sure to take care of the win.“ 
Notre Dame was leading 6-5 heading into the seventh inning, but Strickland notched an RBI with the bases loaded to tie the game. But freshman Jackie Bowe stopped any thought of a Crusader comeback by closing the inning to earn her first career win. 
Valdivia began the game from the mound for the Irish, giving up a leadoff single in the first to Strickland, the sixth leadoff hit allowed by Valdivia in 30 starts. Phalen hit a two-run home run to snap Valdivia’s 36-inning scoreless streak in the circle. 
Irish coach Deanna Gumpf utilized her bullpen in the win, relieving Valdivia after she gave up five hits and four earned runs in two innings. Freshman Brittany O’Donnell came in for four and one -third innings of relief, allowing six hits and two earned runs. 
The key for the Irish once again was their hitting, a skill they have only improved on throughout the season. 


“Even when they switched their pitchers, we were still able to produce runs, ” Valdivia said. 
Crusader ’s Sam McGee gave up four earned runs on four hits as the Valparaiso starter. Alex Lagesse took the loss after allowing three runs on seven hits in four and two-thirds innings. 
Notre Dame is back on the road today, traveling to face DePaul in a Big East match up in Chicago, where it will look to maintain its confer­ence success. The game is scheduled for 2 p.m. 
“We are taking the confi­dence of this win to tomor­row versus DePaul, ” Valdivia said. “We are see­ing where we fell short in some areas and looking to turn that around.” 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 



Thursday, April 22, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Thursday, April 22, 2010 page 24 
FOOTBALL 
Defense limited, offense to take center stage 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Saturday’s Blue-Gold Game will be fun for anyone who likes an offensive showcase, Irish coach Brian Kelly said Wednesday. 
“We won’t do a lot defen­sively. You won’t see much,” Kelly said. “And you’ll proba­bly leave going, ‘wow, our defense didn’t get the kind of progress we were hoping.’ I’m just preparing you for it right now: This is going to be set up for offense from that standpoint. We want to get out there and show some exciting football. We know at the end of the day our defense has made great progress this spring.” 
The Irish have now com­pleted 13 of their 14 spring practices leading up to Saturday’s Blue-Gold Game. Friday’s practice will simply be a walk-through for the scrimmage Saturday, Kelly said. 
As for the game itself, the rules will be those of a tradi­tional spring game. The Irish will be split into Blue and Gold teams and will play with normal football rules. This is a departure from the 2008 and 2009 spring games under former head coach Charlie 
Airing it out 


SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 

During spring practice last Saturday, Irish coach Brian Kelly calls a play. Kelly said the focus of this Saturday’s scrimmage will be to showcase the offense. 
Weis, in which the offense The teams will be split not defense we wanted to keep and defense faced off with a by first and second teams, but the corners together, but unique scoring system that in a way that makes the game maybe the safeties won’t be. rewarded the defense for more exciting, Kelly said. We’ve tried to balance the turnovers and 3-and-outs, “We’ve balanced up the teams so it’s not a ones ver­among other things, and gave teams,” Kelly said. “We’ve sus twos. It’s going to be very the offense two points for kept some positional groups “explosive plays.” together. For example, on see BALANCE/page 22 
ND SOFTBALL 
Tean earns victorywith walk-off 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
The No. 23 Irish had to fight to keep their successful home season going Wednesday, but they did it with a 7-6 win over Valparaiso with the help from a home run and four RBIs from Dani Miller. 
Miller hit a walk-off sacri­fice fly to score junior Katie Fleury and secure the victo­ry for Notre Dame. 
“Our fight is what really helped the win today,” jun­ior pitcher Jody Valdivia said. “We kept competing and didn’t check out even when we got behind. Picking up the win was the most important thing we were looking to accomplish for today.” 
The game ended after two ties and five lead changes between the Irish (35-7, 12­1 Big East) and the Crusaders (7 -2 Horizon League). Valparaiso strand­ed 11 runners on base, but saw multiple hits from Sara Strickland, Kelsey Phalen, Lisa DeBruzzi and Jessie Marinec. 
“Valpo came out swinging, that ’s for sure, ” Valdivia 
see VALPO/page 22 


MEN’S GOLF 

Hoyas edge Irish for title 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
The difference between first and second place can often be traced to one shot over the course of an entire match that dictated the final outcome. For Notre Dame, that moment came on a final putt at the 18th hole in the last round of the Big East championship. 
With the title on the line, Georgetown ’s Vincenzo Salina drained an eight-foot par putt to give the Hoyas a one-shot victory and seal a second-place finish for the Irish. 
“Obviously a tough, tough finish down there at Innisbrook,” Irish coach Jim 
see HOYAS/page 21 

VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer Sophomore Tom Usher take aim during the Fighting Irish Gridiron Golf Classic on Oct. 5, 2009. 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish battle elements, takethirdintournament 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 

Notre Dame placed third in the Big East champi ­onship, held amid rain and otherwise poor golfing con­ditions in Palm Harbor, Fla. 
The Irish, who finished 72-over with a final score of 936 against a seven-team field, improved their score in each round of play. During the three -round tournament, the team card­ed scores of 320, 313 and 303, respectively. The final-round score of 303 was the lowest score of the tourna­ment. 
Despite being one of the favorites to win the tourna­ment, the Irish did not play to their potential. Irish coach Susan Holt said the results of the tournament will serve as a reminder to the Irish that mistakes are costly in the postseason. 
“It needs to be a wake up call,” Holt said. “This time of year we need to be play­ing better.” 
The Irish received solid contributions from a num­ber of players. Pacing the Irish throughout the week­end was senior Annie Brophy, who finished in sec­ond place individually with a 10-over 226. She finished six shots back of Louisville’s Sara-Maude Juneau, the top 
see BROPHY/page 22 








