the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


By KATIE PERALTA 
Assistant News Editor 
As a part of Notre Dame’s StaND Against Hate Week, student gov­ernment hosted a talk titled “Homosexuality Under the Dome: Past Struggles and Present Solutions” Tuesday night at the Carey Auditorium at the Hesburgh Library. 
Notre Dame alumni and student members of the LGBTQ (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Questioning) community opened the discussion with personal testi­monies about their experience with discrimination at Notre Dame and their suggestions as to how to improve an environment of inclu­sion on campus. 
All five speakers reverberated the same theme in their solutions: amending the University’s nondis­crimination clause to include sexual orientation. 
Tom Field, a 1954 graduate of the Program of Liberal Studies (PLS) and former student body president, began the talk with a series of questions invoking the power of the Holy Spirit. 
“How can we tell when the Holy Spirit speaks to us?” Field said. “When the Holy Spirit speaks to us, 


Lecture examines gay life on campus 
Alumni, students, expert participate in talk as part of StaND Against Hate Week events 
he will call us to greater personal integrity. For gay and lesbian indi­viduals, that means recognizing that God made no mistakes.” 
Field said honesty is a critical ele­ment in the understanding process for the gay community. 
“We have to be honest with our­selves about who we are,” he said. “And therefore we have to be hon­est with others about who we are.” 
Field said his experience as a gay man at Notre Dame was not an easy one. 
“Violence at Notre Dame warped and changed my life profoundly. It was an internal violence,” he said. “I was totally closeted here and nothing in my environment provid­ed a path to self-awareness and personal integrity.” 
Social structure, he said, is large­ly to blame for students remaining closeted. 
“Universities must be open to learning no matter where it can be found,” he said. “Our beloved University must reclaim its place as a leader in compassion.” 
Discrimination, furthermore, is inherently against Catholic teach­ing, Field said, urging the University to adopt a non-discrimination clause. 
see STAND/page 6 


NDwomen to analyze workforce 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
Some might think the world of business and corporate heads still belongs to the men, but the Undergraduate Women in Business Club (UWIB) is hoping to challenge this notion with their second annual Women’s Professional Development Conference. 
The theme of the conference, which will be held on April 17, is 
“A  New  Decade,  A  New  
Beginning.”  
“The  mission  of  the  

Undergraduate Women in Business Club is to foster and encourage women involvement in business,” senior Katie Curtin, the conference chair said. “The conference is meant to advocate empowerment in women.” 
Registration for the conference, which ends today, is open to stu­dents from all majors, something committee and UWIB members say is reflective of the common message of the conference. 
see WOMEN/page 4 


ND fishing club is making a splash 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
While some students spend their free time running, relaxing or spending time with friends, over 40 students are active mem­bers of Notre Dame’s fishing club. 
The club — started about four years ago by Dave Patterson, a 2009 alumnus — does not meet regularly but usually participates in three tournaments and four to five recreational outings per year, according to sophomore Sam Stimple, president of the fishing club. 
“In the fall, we do a few low-key outings on the campus lakes and the St. Joseph River, and we also held a fly casting clinic,” Stimple said. “We also go to the fall and spring Collegiate Steelhead tournaments and the Icebox Bass Tournament in the spring.” 
Although the club aims to attend all three tournaments, this year was a slow year for the club as they were unable to attend any of the aforementioned tour­naments due to various conflicts and complications. 

“We had a lot of member con­flicts with the two Steelhead tour­naments this year,” Stimple said. “The Icebox tournament pairs us up with boaters, but there has been a shortage of boaters due to the economy, so we were unable to go the past two years.” 
The collegiate tournaments involve fishing clubs from region­al universities, such as Western Michigan, Indiana and Purdue. However, Stimple said club offi­cers are currently looking for new tournaments to participate in next year to provide more opportunities for club members. 
The fishing club currently enlists 37 dues-paying members and several current and former club officers. Stimple said club dues cover the costs of a club shirt, necessary equipment, gas, hotel accommodations and entry fees for tournaments. 
But club members are 
see FISHING/page 4 


McAdams delivers Last Lecture 

By JOHN TIERNEY 
Senior News Writer 
The Spirit of Notre Dame is transformative for professors and students alike, professor of political science James McAdams said Tuesday. 
McAdams, who has served as the director of the Nanovic Institute since 2002, delivered the third installment of student government’s Last Lecture series. 
“Being at Notre Dame gives you perspective not just as a stu­dent, but for me as a teacher,” McAdams said. 
Prior to coming to Notre Dame in 1992, McAdams taught at Princeton University. The news media frequently consulted him as an Eastern European expert during the collapse of the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989. His tele­vision presence during this peri­od allowed his ego to grow too large, McAdams said. 
When the network television stations no longer needed an East Germany expert, McAdams said he “waited for that phone to ring and it never rang again.” 
“Inside, I waited for that mas­sive recognition of my bountiful wisdom and it didn’t happen again,” he said. 
McAdams said Notre Dame helped him to regain perspective and become a better teacher. 
“I began to recognize that Notre Dame is different,” 
see LECTURE/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Professor teaches in Iraq page 3  Glee review page 11  Three fifth-year seniors to return next year page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Wednesday, April 14, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Logical reasoning 

The definition of “logic” in my pocket dic­tionary reads, “sound reasoning.” 
I bring this up, because lately, quite frankly, I have noticed an absence of logic. The vast majority of us, myself included more often than not, no longer use “sound reasoning.” Emotions, preferences and lack of sleep rob of us of our logic. 
Upon realizing this, I started making a concentrated effort at using logic more often when making Douglas Farmer decisions. 

But it wasn’t Sportsenough. Illogical 
Editor 

actions around me bred illogical deci­sions by me. Illogical decisions that could have been avoided. 
During room picks for example, many people face a decision of two or three rooms that they did not initially want. A flaw can be found in each room’s résumé. The pick should still be simple: Pick the room with the best flaw — for certainly, of multiple things, there is always a best. 
Yet, undoubtedly, a rash room pick will be made, regretted only a few hours later and yet lived in for a full year. 
The same logic can be applied to finding somewhere off-campus to live. Sign the lease on the house that meets the most of your needs, not the house that is simply nicest on first glance. 
Late DART time? Well, first off, I’m sorry. Assuredly, you’ll end up one class short and only a handful of college seminars available. Of the bad seminars, sign up for the one that you think you’ll find most interesting, because, again, of multiple things, there is always one most interest­ing. 
Only have time to sleep or to finish your paper? Determine which one you can go the longest without. If you slept in this morning, finish the paper. If the paper isn’t due for another week, get some sleep. Not that difficult. 
But, we are college students, and often enough, find ourselves short sleep with the paper due in two days. At that point, a point I encounter weekly, we must admit that these grades are not the defining aspects of our lives. Their effect on our future is minimal compared to the experi­ence we gain working over the summer, or the lessons we learn with our friends on the weekends. 
If anyone tries to argue that point with me, I am confident my sound reasoning will win, for it is simple — I will remember my hours as a teller, and my nights watch­ing roommates worship the porcelain god­dess. I will not remember my 12-page research papers. 
So consider this my plea, for the better­ment of us all, let us all resume the use of sound reasoning, at least four nights a week. 
And I apologize if you found this Inside Column rather boring, cliché, redundant and mundane. I could not for the life of me come up with a topic that inspired me, besides the Yankees and Hideki Matsui. Believe me, I tried. 
Fortunately, I don’t foresee me writing another Inside Column until, oh, sometime around Spring Break next year. 
Logically, I think that is best for everyone. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: TELL A STORY IN SIX WORDS. 






Claire Stephens  Claire Kenney  Sarah Spieler  Jordan Matulis  Ryan Lion  
freshman  senior  sophomore  sophomore  freshman  
Pangborn  Holy Cross Hall  Pasquerilla West  Howard  Sorin  
“Some nights,  “Once upon a  “On  “The cow  “I woke up.  
students break  time... the end.”  Wednesdays we  jumped over the  Sharpie on  
parietals.  wear pink.  moon.”  face.”  
GASP.”  Duh.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Junior Matt Momont gathers signatures for StaND Against Hate Week’s Day of Silence in LaFortune Student Center Tuesday. StaND Against Hate Week runs until Friday, and includes a t-shirt distrobution and silent procession. 
OFFBEAT 

Man on mower charged with DUI, fishing pole theft 
ATHENS, Tenn. — An East Tennessee man driv­ing a lawn mower in the road has been charged with DUI. Athens police said 30-year-old Jimmy Graham Jr. smelled like alcohol and failed a sobri­ety test Monday after an officer spotted him on the lawn mower. He told the officer he had consumed a beer and taken a stress reliever prescribed to him. 
A jailer said Graham was in custody Tuesday and there was no record of him having a lawyer. 
The Daily Post-Athenian in Athens reported that Graham was also charged with aggravated burglary and theft under $500. 
Man arrested twice in one day on identical drug charges 
ALBANY, Ga. — Albany authorities did a double take when they arrested a man twice on the same drug charge in one day. Authorities said a man, 26, was charged with pos­session of marijuana around noon on Friday after police pulled him over during a routine traf­fic stop. He was sent to the Dougherty County Jail and released on bond four hours later. 
But Bill Berry of the Albany-Dougherty Drug Unit says police soon received a tip that the man was trying to set up a drug deal. He said the suspect was arrested again at 6:30 
p.m. Friday after authori­ties found him with two ounces of marijuana on him and charged a second time with possession of the drug. 
This time, though, Berry said he stayed in Dougherty County Jail with no bond. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight Thursday Friday 

IN BRIEF 
A presentation, “Atticus Finch: Not Only Gregory Peck But Also Southern Gentleman and County -Seat Lawyer Whose Daughter Is a Whiz-Bang,” will be held tonight from 4 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. in the Geddes Hall Auditorium. The lecture is promoting the One Book, One Michiana proj­ect and is open to the public. 
A lecture, “Sportswriter is One Word,” will be held in the Hesburgh Library Carey Auditorium tonight at 7:30 
p.m. Writer and commentator Frank Deford will speak as a part of the Red Smith Lecture in Journalism series. The event is free and open to the public. 
Artist Caroline Chiu will be present at an artist talk and lecture in the Snite Museum of Art Thursday from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. She will speak about her two current exhibitions. The event is open to the pub­lic. 
The Relay for Life, Fightin’ Irish Fightin’ Cancer, will take place Friday through Saturday at Notre Dame Stadium, starting at 6 p.m. Friday evening. Register online at Relay for Life’s Web site. 
A lecture, “Notre Dame vs. the Klan,” will take place at the Geddes Hall Auditorium at 10 a.m. Saturday. Author Todd Tucker, graduate of the class of 1990, will lecture. The event is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
Saturday Sunday 


Atlanta 83 / 54 Boston 65 / 41 Chicago 80 / 55 Denver 69 / 46 Houston 79 / 63 Los Angeles 68 / 52 Minneapolis 74 / 55 New York 67 / 44 Philadelphia 69 / 43 Phoenix 85 / 62 Seattle 64 / 48 St. Louis 82 / 55 Tampa 82 / 65 Washington 63 / 47 
Wednesday, April 14, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
College artist featured at South Bend museum 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
Nicole Krou has talked about being an artist since preschool. 
“We had preschool graduation,” Krou said. “We had this stupid ceremony and we walked across the stage and this lady — I don’t know who she was — asked us what we wanted to be when we grow up. At the rehearsal I told her artist, then at the actual grad­uation I said I wanted to be a pale­ontologist.” 
Today, Krou has the opportunity to show off her work in the South Bend Museum of Art. 
“I thought it was pretty cool, and it was actually rather terrifying,” she said. 
The junior art major had an internship during the summer of 2009. After sending in her portfo­lio, she was granted the intern­ship, and was awarded the chance to have some studio space for her own art exhibit at the museum. 


“I gravitated towards print mak­ing this year,” Krou said. “I just took foundations courses my freshman year and then I was abroad all of my sophomore year so I didn’t do any art. Then I took silkscreen last semester and really enjoyed it.” 
Though she enjoys creating silkscreens, Krou said she likes dabbling in other art forms as well. 
Krou said her work is inspired by a variety of popular cultures from the 1980s including the band Poison, the popular television show “Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles” and vinyl records and cassettes. 
Krou said she’s willing to work anywhere. She often works within the print studio at the College, on her kitchen floor or out on her deck at her off-campus housing. 
“The kitchen floor is a nice place,” Krou said. “Good light. Pretty much wherever it’s suitable. I don’t want to limit myself. When it happens, it happens.” 
Krou said she hopes those who look at her work will feel some sense of nostalgia. “I just want you to kind of look at it and be like, ‘hey, I remember that, that was cool. That makes me feel happy inside,’” Krou said. “I just want you to feel an emo­tion.” 
After Saint Mary’s, Krou said she plans to attend grad school, but hopes to go abroad. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
Prof. travels to Iraq to teach 
By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
A Notre Dame political science professor had the unique oppor­tunity last month to teach stu­dents about “life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness” in a place where such terms are foreign and difficult to grasp. 
Professor Vi ncent Muñoz trav­eled to the American University of Iraq-Sulaimani (AUI-S) to teach stu­dents about the principles behind the United States Constitution and Declaration of Independence. 
“The ideas were new and not familiar. They really wanted to know what it means to have the right to life, the right to liberty,” Muñoz said. 
AUI-S, a private university, opened in 2007 and offers an American-style liberal arts educa­tion. All classes are taught in English. 
Muñoz met AUI-S Provost John Agresto last November after the Notre Dame professor gave a lec­ture about the Constitution in Philadelphia. Agresto later invited Muñoz to teach students about American democracy in a work­shop setting at AUI-S. 
Muñoz left for Iraq on March 25 and returned on April 5, traveling 30 hours each way. Notre Dame’s Institute for Scholarship in the Liberal Arts (ISLA) funded the trip. 

“I definitely want to thank Agustin Fuentes, director of the ISLA,” Muñoz said. 
On a typical day, Muñoz did some of his own work in the morning, ate lunch with faculty in the afternoon, met with his class and held informal conversations with students after class. 
“I taught for five days, but the total trip was 10 days,” Muñoz said. “I taught a 75 minute class which tended to go to 90 minutes. Anyone could come, and more students came every day.” 
Muñoz said the students arrived at each seminar class well prepared and with many ques­tions. 
“The first day we did the Declaration of Independence and [discussed] what the purpose of government is. The second day we did the Federalist Number 10. [We then] spent two days on reli­gious freedom and one day on constitutional design,” Muñoz said. “Students were so engaged because Iraq just wrote a consti­tution.” 
Muñoz said most students looked to America as the ideal democratic society. 
“[We discussed that] liberal democracy has its advantages and disadvantages,” he said. “They are so enamored with the idea of democracy, to have some­one talk about the disadvantages of democracy was new to them.” 
Muñoz said some female stu­dents worried about the abuses of freedom. These students were concerned too much freedom could lead to an increased preva­lence of abortions and pornogra­phy. 
Toward the end of his stay in Iraq, Muñoz gave a lecture open to the entire university titled “Constitutional Democracy and Religious Freedom.” 
“In the lecture I did a compari­son between the Iraqi and American constitutions,” Muñoz said. “Islam is the established religion in the Iraqi constitution. I compared that to how we don’t have an official religion in America. Students thought it would be impossible not to have an established religion [In Iraq].” 
Muñoz said students were sur­prised a separation of church and state is not considered anti-reli­gious. They also struggled to com­prehend the idea of a limited gov­ernment. 
“They had not seen the argu­ments for these ideas before,” Muñoz said. 
Muñoz said his class felt “in many ways, just like a seminar at Notre Dame.” 
But he said teaching students who are so unfamiliar with con­cepts like freedom of speech and freedom of religion — concepts most Americans do not think twice about — was refreshing. 
“[The trip] reminded me why I love to teach these things, because the students were so hungry to learn and the ideas were so new to them,” Muñoz said. “The eagerness of the stu­dents was infectious — they desire so much to live as a stable democracy like America.” 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 14, 2010 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 
Group reviews ImproveND survey 

By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR) was given a presentation about the results of the ImproveND survey and what the implications are for student government at its meeting last night. 
“This survey was really extensive about everything at Notre Dame,” student body president Catherine Soler said. “This is about what stu­dents want.” 
Associate Vice President for Strategic Planning Erin Hoffman Harding said the ImproveND survey, administered to the student body in January, was different than previous surveys given to the student body. 
“This survey was one big effort,” Hoffman Harding said. “We’ve never really done a comprehensive student services survey before this.” 
The survey had 51 percent partic­ipation of the undergraduate stu­dents, which Hoffman Harding said “was really good considering the survey wasn’t mandatory.” 
The results of the survey were 
Women 
continued from page 1 
“We’re trying to reach out to all women who are looking at enter­ing the field of business and this can apply to all majors,” UWIB president senior Staysha Sigler said. 
Many of the organizers of the conference said part of the pur­pose of the conference is to chal­lenge the traditional notion there aren’t many women currently in the workforce, something that has significantly changed in the past decade. 
“It’s a new society that we’re entering and it doesn’t have rules yet,” sophomore committee mem­ber Juliet Palko said. “People aren’t used to having as many women in the workforce but it’s progressing.” 
The conference, which Curtin described as an “education event,” is partly aimed at helping women connect the past 
“It’s a women’s professional development conference and it 
Fishing 
continued from page 1 
required to purchase their own fishing licenses and food during the club’s trips. 
Although the majority of club members have fished prior to join­ing the club, a large range of expe­rience exists between club mem­bers, from those who fish every day in the summer to members who only fish at school. 
“No one should be scared of not being experienced enough to join the club,” Stimple said. “It’s not that important to have previous experience.” 
In addition to participating in outings and tournaments, the club’s major project this year was preparing and maintaining their recently acquired boats for use on the campus lakes. 
“We had to make sure they were up to safety standards and pur­chase life jackets, oars and a trail­er,” Stimple said. “We can start using the boats by next weekend.” 
Stimple said goals for next year include buying a slow motor for each boat to simplify fishing on examined in the context of gender, class year and College and focused on three main categories of aca­demic services, extra and co-curric­ular activities and campus environ­ment and services. 
Hoffman Harding said many of the resulting figures from the survey fit with the results of past services in regards to specific subjects and areas. But she said some of the results were “shocking.” 
“We asked the question how much time an individual student spends on academic activities out­side of class and there was a huge difference based on the College,” she said. 
According to the results of the survey over 60 percent of Arts and Letters and Business students spend 15 hours a less on academic work outside of class. This is a huge con­trast to the School of Architecture, where 80 percent of students said they spend 25 hours or more a week on academic work. 
“The University officers weren’t very happy with these results,” Hoffman Harding said. “They want to make sure they’re serving the 
focuses on mutual learning between students and successful women in business today,” Curtin said. “It’s about learning from their own experiences in the field.” 
The conference will feature two keynote speakers: Dean Carolyn Woo of the Mendoza College of Business and Diane Guyas, presi­dent of DuPont Performance Polymers. 
“These are women who are going to talk about what they’ve gone through and help prepare us for this new environment,” Sigler said. 
While the organizers said the conference is primarily an educa­tional experience, there are also networking opportunities. The 10 companies visiting are ones that Sigler says are supportive of women’s roles in the workplace. 
“Today, companies are realiz­ing that women are assets,” Sigler said. “There are a lot of opportunities for women that are out there and companies are coming to realize that and utilize them.” 
With Mendoza College of 
campus and to purchase enough equipment for members to be able to fish nearby more often. He also said he hopes to find a way to use the boats on nearby rivers in addi­tion to on campus. 
Stimple said many members heard about the club at Activities Night and also through friends who have been members in the past, but he encouraged anyone with an interest in fishing to con­sider joining the club. 
“It’s a fun way to get out and relax during busy or stressful stretches of school,” Stimple said. “We want to see club membership grow next year.” 
In the future, Stimple said he hopes club members take advan­tage of the opportunity to fish on their own time during the school year. 
“If a club member wants to fish on his own, he just has to e-mail the officers, and they will do their best to provide the necessary equipment,” Stimple said. “No one needs their own equipment, so members can just find a friend and fish whenever they want to.” 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
students in their academic endeav­ors.” 
Soler said she was also surprised by the results. 
“I’m pretty shocked especially being a Business major,” she said. “We do a lot of group projects and still over 60 percent say that they spend less than 15 hours a week studying.” 
Hoffman Harding said the survey showed many students are upset by the lack of diversity on campus, something Hoffman Harding said has become a “high priority for the University.” 
Hoffman Harding asked COR members to take in what the survey revealed and think of ways how stu­dent leaders can address the issues of concern. 
“The one big question we have for you coming out of this is what do you student leaders think is impor­tant,” she said. “We did this for a reason. We want to better ourselves and make Notre Dame better for you.” 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 
Business recently being ranked the top business school in the country, Sigler said events such as the Women’s Professional Development Conference are nec­essary to be worthy of the title. 
“Other top business schools in the country have workshops like this,” she said. “If we want to step up to the challenge of being the number one business school in the country then we need to keep having events like this and make them bigger and better.” 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 


World & Nation 
Wednesday, April 14, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Ship grounding scars Barrier Reef 
SYDNEY — A Chinese coal carrier rocked back and forth over a section of Australia’s Great Barrier Reef after running aground, inflicting a gash 2 miles (3 kilometers) long into a shoal that will take 20 years to heal. A leading marine scientist called it the worst damage he’s ever seen to the world’s largest coral reef. 
The Shen Neng 1 veered into protected waters and ran aground on Douglas Shoal on April 3, immediately leaking 2-3 tons of fuel when coral shredded its hull. 
The 755-foot (230-meter) ship was success­fully lifted off the reef Monday after crews spent three days pumping fuel to lighten it. Salvage crews later towed it to an anchorage area near Great Keppel Island, 40 nautical miles (45 miles, 70 kilometers) away. 
Michelle Obama visits Haiti 
PORT-AU-PRINCE — First lady Michelle Obama made a surprise visit Tuesday to the ruins of the Haitian capital, a high-profile reminder that hundreds of thousands remain in desperate straits three months after the earthquake. 
The first lady and Jill Biden, wife of Vice President Joe Biden, took a helicopter tour of Port-au-Prince, where many people are still homeless, before landing at the destroyed national palace to meet President Rene Preval. They later talked with students whose lives have been upended by the disaster and walked along a vast, squalid encampment of families living under bed sheets and tents. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Huckabee blasts gay marriage 
WASHINGTON — Mike Huckabee, a possible Republican presidential candidate in 2012, says the effort to allow gays and lesbians to marry is comparable to legalizing incest, polygamy and drug use. 
Huckabee also told college journalists last week that gay couples should not be permitted to adopt. “Children are not puppies,” he said. 
Huckabee visited The College of New Jersey in Ewing, N.J., last Wednesday to speak to the Student Government Association. He also was interviewed by a campus news magazine, The Perspective, which published an article on Friday. 
Adoption advocates petition Russia 
NEW YORK — Worried over a threatened freeze of adoptions from Russia, thousands of American adoption advocates are petitioning leaders of the two nations to prevent such a step even as they decry a Tennessee woman return­ing her adopted son to Russia. 
Poignant pleas from would-be adoptive parents were included in the petition to President Barack Obama and his Russian counterpart, Dmitri Medvedev, that was being coordinated Tuesday by the Joint Council on International Children’s Services. The council, which represents many 
U.S. agencies engaged in international adoption, estimates there are about 3,000 pending U.S. applications for adoptions from Russia. 
“My husband and I have been working toward a Russian adoption for two years now,” wrote Susan Busek, a teacher from Loveland, Colo. “Please know that there are many would-be par­ents like us, who want only the opportunity to be parents and give our love.” 
LOCAL NEWS 

One dead after IU chemical exposure 
BLOOMINGTON, Ind. — Indiana University police say one person has been found dead in an IU dormitory following a possible chemi­cal release in a dorm room. 
Police Capt. Jerry Minger says a male was found dead in a third-floor room in the 11­story north tower of Willkie Residence Center about 2:20 p.m. Tuesday. 
No one else was injured and police evacu­ated the second, third and fourth floors. 
Minger says the death is being investigated as a possible suicide, but it’s unclear if the victim is a student because the body has not been identified. 
Archdiocese suspends Colo. priest 
Fr. Melvin Thompson of Denver maintains innocence after sex abuse allegations 
Associated Press  
DENVER — The action  
against the priest was swift  
and public.  
Within five days of receiv­ 
ing a decades-old child sex  
abuse allegation against the  
Rev. Melvin Thompson,  
Denver’s Roman Catholic  
Archdiocese investigated,  
alerted law enforcement  
and announced his suspen­ 
sion to parishioners and the  
public.  
The archdiocese says  
Thompson, 74, maintains  
his innocence. Some parish­ 
ioners have complained the  
process was unfair and too  
fast. However Denver  
Archbishop Charles Chaput  
called prompt action  
“painful but necessary.”  
The episode highlights the  
challenges American  
Catholic Church leaders  
face as they follow through  
on a promise to be more  
transparent in dealing with  
priests accused of abuse,  
while respecting the rights  
of both victims and the  
accused.  
The case comes amid a  
worsening global clergy  
abuse scandal focused on  
how Pope Benedict XVI has  
dealt with problem priests AP  
in his past church roles. Five days after receiving a decades-old sex abuse accusation, Denver’s Archbishop Charles  
For years, some U.S. Chaput, above, suspended Fr. Melvin Thompson.  
church officials kept mum  
about abuse allegations and  Critics of the church  priests from public ministry  All U.S. dioceses were also  
shuffled problem priests  remain dubious of the U.S.  — including saying Mass  instructed to advise victims  
from parish to parish —  efforts.  and working as a parish  of their right to contact  
practices first exposed in  Some Catholics, while say- priest — while allegations  authorities themselves. Most  
the 1980s and then on a  ing protecting children must  are investigated. Diocesan  cases are old and fall out- 
larger scale in the early  be the overriding concern,  review boards, comprised  side statutes of limitations,  
1990s.  worry church officials are  mostly of lay people, help  making criminal prosecu­ 
Denver’s handling of the  moving too quickly in some  bishops oversee cases.  tion impossible.  
Thompson case is the latest  cases.  Initial inquiries to deter- The Denver archdiocese,  
example of American  “The church at this point  mine whether a claim is  Knight said, acted more  
Catholic leaders shifting  is simply recognizing that  credible tend to focus on  quickly than most but  
from secrecy to greater  children are more vulnera­ making sure dates and  essentially followed proto­ 
openness, an attitude  ble than adults,” said Diane  places named in allegations  col.  
church leaders elsewhere in  Knight, the retired head of  stand up. A more in-depth  On April 7, the archdio­ 
the world have been slower  Catholic Charities in  investigation, also involving  cese said it received a com- 
to adopt.  Milwaukee and chairwoman  lay diocesan review boards,  plaint from a man who  
This week, the Vatican for  of the National Review  is then carried out. Clergy  alleged he was sexually  
the first time made it clear  Board, an advisory panel  found guilty are permanent- abused by Thompson in the  
that bishops and clerics  created by U.S. bishops in  ly barred from public min- early 1970s. That same day  
worldwide should report  2002. “If we’re going to err,  istry and, in some cases,  Chaput said he removed the  
such crimes to police if they  we’re going to err more on  ousted from the priesthood.  popular Thompson from his  
are required to by law,  the side of protecting chil- Under the 2002 reforms,  position as assistant pastor  
matching a policy worked  dren.”  U.S. bishops are to comply  at St. Thomas More Parish  
out by U.S. bishops after an  Policies approved by the  with state laws for reporting  in suburban Centennial and  
explosion of sex abuse cases  Vatican as church law in the  abuse, and to cooperate  suspended his ability to  
in 2002.  U.S. bar credibly accused  with authorities.  function publicly as a priest.  

Governor signs bills restricting abortion 
legal challenge, calling the ban after standard in abortion restrictions is via-
Associated Press 
20 weeks “flatly unconstitutional” bility, or when a fetus is able to survive 

LINCOLN, Neb. — Two landmark because it is based on the assertion outside the womb — generally at 22 to measures putting new restrictions on that fetuses feel pain, not on the ability 24 weeks. abortion became law in Nebraska on of a fetus to survive outside the womb. The law could lead to changes in Tuesday, including one that critics say “It absolutely cannot survive a chal-state laws across the country if upheld breaks with court precedent by chang-lenge without a change to three by the courts, said Mary Spaulding ing the legal rationale for a ban on decades of court rulings,” said Nancy Balch, legislative director for National later-term abortions. Northup, president of the Center for Right to Life. 
Republican Gov. Dave Heineman Reproductive Rights. “Courts have “It would broaden the interests of signed both bills, one barring abor-been chipping away at abortion rights states in protecting the unborn child,” tions at and after 20 weeks of preg-... this would be like taking a huge she said. “It says the state has an nancy and the other requiring women hacksaw to the rights.” interest in the unborn child before via-to be screened before having abortions The law focusing on late-term abor-bility.” for mental health and other problems. tions is designed to shut down one of Heineman also signed the other bill, Both sides of the abortion debate say the few doctors in the nation who per-approved by lawmakers on Monday, the laws are firsts of their kind in the forms them in Nebraska. that requires the screening for mental 
U.S. Set to take effect in October, it is health problems and other risk factors 
A national abortion rights group based on the claim that fetuses can indicating if women might have prob-already appeared to be girding for a feel pain at 20 weeks. The current lems after having abortions. 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, April 14, 2010 
StaND 
continued from page 1 
“Notre Dame’s failure to not include the nondiscrimination clause is in itself discrimination,” he said. “Notre Dame’s act of discrimination allows others to feel it acceptable to treat the LGBTQ community as less than equal.” 
“One discrimination begets anoth­er,” he added. 
Rick Duffer Landavazo, a 1981 graduate who majored in American Studies spoke next about his experi­ence as a gay student at Notre Dame nearly 30 years ago, recounting sev­eral instances of overt acts of aggres­sion and hate from his fellow stu­dents. 
“If gay and lesbian students today are like those in the 1970s, you are in a community that preaches love and practices hate,” he said. 
Landavazo said dialogue is a criti­cal part of inclusion for the LGBTQ community. 
“I urge the University to bring gay and lesbian students to bring their concerns into the open,” he said. “Homosexuals are probably the most disdained minority group.” 
Dialogue, he said, could also have prevented many of today’s problems among the gay and lesbian commu­nity. 
“Could not an open dialogue among priests have avoided the sex abuse scandal in the Church?” he asked. 
He also described a “survival guide” for the gay student communi­ty. 
“Embrace ‘Cafeteria Catholicism.’ Everyone else has,” he said. 
Richard Beatty, a 1991 graduate student and former member of the Glee Club, said he came to the University after a “very comfortable life” as a gay man in California. 
Besides the lack of administrative recognition of LGBTQ groups on campus, Beatty said he did not expe­rience discrimination from Notre Dame students, faculty and staff. 
“I do sense a certain progress on campus,” he said. 
Beatty reiterated the importance of adding sexual orientation to the University’s nondiscrimination clause, emphasizing the difference between a gay person and gay actions. 
“There is a clear distinction between being and doing,” he said. 
Co-chairs of the Core Council for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Questioning Students Melanie LeMay and Eddie Velazquez, both seniors, recounted their experiences as undergraduates at Notre Dame so far. 
“Last year the ‘Gay? Go to hell’ T-shirts were never reprimanded in any way by the administration,” LeMay said, referencing the “Gay? Fine by me” T-shirts worn by many students as a protest last semester. 
But the environment for the Notre Dame LGBTQ community has improved, she said. 
“Most of the change has been from students and faculty,” she said. 
Velazquez said his impression of the Notre Dame community was bet­ter than he had anticipated before coming on campus. 
“The ND students are actually opposite to how they were portrayed in the media,” he said, referencing a Princeton Review article that pinned Notre Dame as the top most unwel­coming students for “alternative lifestyles.” 
The last speaker of the event was Dominic Parrott, assistant professor of psychology at Georgia State University, who addressed the psy­chology behind people who discrimi­nate against others based on their sexual orientation. 
“For every big act of aggression like murder, there are more and more smaller ones that go unreport­ed and uncounted,” he said. 
Thirty-five states are not legally required to count hate attacks against gay people, he said. Furthermore, an estimated 20 percent of sexual minority adults were victims of a per­son or property crime due to their sexual orientation and 50 percent of sexual minority adults have been ver­bally insulted or abused. 
“The true prevalence of the prob­lem is underestimated,” he said. 
Parrott noted several causes of aggression against gay people, focus­ing especially on men, who constitute 75 to 80 percent of acts of aggression. 
Gender role reinforcement, he said, is a factor because society prescribes certain norms for how men and women behave. 
Not showing emotion, being sexu­ally active and anti-femininity are all characteristics society pins on men, he said. 
“Male homosexuality represents a threat to the masculinity of some het­erosexual men,” he said. “Men feel they have to establish gender bounds.” 
The solution to this over-aggres­sion, he said, ought to come from both societal and individual levels. 
“Any change in societal level must be supported by education, legisla­tion, social policies and social and cul­tural messages,” he said. “[On an individual level], intergroup contact will reduce sexual prejudice if there is equal status between groups and a norm exists that supports positive relations and cooperative interac­tion.” 
He said society must continue to understand and refine its under­standing of sources of aggression in order to create a safe and welcome environment for all people, no matter what their sexual orientation. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 
Lecture 
continued from page 1 
McAdams said. “Notre Dame cast a magical spell on me.” 
He said he has focused on “bringing my own humanity to my students” since beginning to teach at Notre Dame. 
“I began looking at my stu­dents and recognizing in them myself,” he said. 
He said he began to see his students as “part of this com­mon humanity,” and as people who shared in his “curiosity for the way we live our lives and think about think my students get more out of that,” he said. 
Notre Dame, unlike secular institutions, allows McAdams to discuss his religious faith in the classroom, he said. 
“It really isn’t a problem at Notre Dame to say ‘I believe in God and these are my strug­gles with my belief,’” he said. “It turned out that it was natu­ral to the point of being obliga­tory, just like it’s important to be honest about your mistakes and your shortcomings.” 
Talking about his faith and mistakes helps McAdams fulfill his ultimate goal as a teacher, 
“I realized that when
what our call­ings are.” I talk about being 
McAd ams wrong, in a way, I 
said a teaching 
think that my
method that is 
based on shar-students get more out ing humanity of that.” with students requires 
James McAdams
courage. “When you’re director a teacher, Nanovic Institute 
you’re at risk all of the time,” he said. “For all your teachers at Notre Dame — all your real teachers at Notre Dame — every act of teaching is an act of risk and sacrifice.” 
“It’s about getting out there on the stage and making your­self very vulnerable,” he said. “If I have the courage to get out amongst all you, then I can teach.” 
McAdams said part of his credibility as a teacher comes from when he can admit he is wrong. 
“I realized that when I talk about being wrong, in a way, I he said. 
“I see it as my obligation to figure out ways to moti­vate you to understand the complexity of human exis­tence through Notre Dame and your own faith, if you’re wrestling with that,” he said. 
McAdams is currently work­
ing on a new book, “The Rise and Fall of World Communism.” He continues to travel regularly, and discussed his recent trips to Belarus and Vietnam. 
Contact John Tierney at jtierne1@nd.edu 



The Observer 

Business
Wednesday, April 14, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Facebook reveals new safety site 
PALO ALTO, Calif. — Facebook has launched a revamped internal site designed to help people stay safe and report threats while on the popular online hangout. 
Facebook’s “Safety Center,” which features new tools for parents, teachers, teens and law enforcement, is the first major endeavor from the social networking site and its four-month-old global safety advisory board. 
The company unveiled its Safety Center a day after meeting with child advocacy offi­cials in the U.K., who had been pushing the company to install a so-called “panic but­ton” on the site for some time, following the kidnapping and murder there of a teenager by a man she encountered on Facebook. 
Britain’s Child Exploitation and Online Protection Center, or CEOP, had wanted Facebook to install a prominent link on U.K. users’ profile pages that would take them to CEOP’s own safety site designed to help chil­dren deal with online threats. 
U.S. labor leader steps down 
WASHINGTON — One of the most politi­cally powerful — and polarizing — union leaders in the U.S. is preparing to step down from his post. 
Andy Stern, president of the 2.2 million-member Service Employees International Union, plans to resign, a senior union offi­cial told employees in an e-mail on Monday. 
The message from the official, Diane Sosne, was obtained by The Associated Press. She is a member of the union’s board and president of an SEIU local based in Seattle. 
Stern, 59, is one of President Barack Obama’s closest political allies and a major force in Democratic politics. His union spent about $60 million to help Obama win the presidency and millions more on House and Senate races around the U.S. 
He is also one of the most frequent visi­tors to the White House, showing up more than 20 times last year, according to official logs. Stern has served as a popular punch­ing bag for conservatives who accuse him of using political largesse to push union caus­es like health care overhaul and stimulus spending. 
Failed bank execs defend actions 
Washington Mutual officials testify at Senate hearing regarding alleged fraud 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — A trio of former Washington Mutual officials and a trove of documents on Tuesday portrayed a pattern of breakneck loan-making and alleged fraud at the biggest U.S. bank ever to fail. 
Former CEO Kerry Killinger defended WaMu’s actions at a Senate hearing and insisted the govern­ment should not have seized it at the height of the financial crisis in September 2008. 
Killinger argued that WaMu had adequate capi­tal and shouldn’t have been shut down and sold for a “bargain” price of $1.9 bil­lion. The bank “should have been given a chance to work its way through the crisis,” he testified at a hearing by a Senate panel. 
The 18-month investiga­tion by the Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs sub­committee found that WaMu’s lending operations were rife with fraud, including fabricated loan documents. It concluded that management failed to stem the deception despite internal probes. 
The bank’s pay system of rewarding loan officers prosecutors. The former Killinger said. “For those early 2008, “I was increas­and sales executives for WaMu executives appeared outside of the club, the ingly excluded from senior their volume of loans before Congress for the penalty was severe.” executive meetings and closed ratcheted up the first time since the bank’s Levin came armed with meetings with financial pressure, the investigators collapse. e-mail correspondence advisers when the bank’s found. Killinger deflected the among senior executives at response to the growing 
Sen. Carl Levin, D-Mich., criticism and laid blame on the bank showing anxiety crisis was being dis-the panel’s chairman, has the government. He argued over elevated rates of cussed,” Ronald Cathcart, said it will decide after its that even before the crisis delinquency and default in who helped oversee risk hearings this week struck with force, the gov-the high-risk mortgage until April 2008, testified at whether to make a formal ernment treated Seattle-loans WaMu had made. the hearing. By January referral to the Justice based Washington Mutual The exchanges show the 2008 he was “fully isolat-Department for possible unfairly. He noted it was executives wanted to ed” and was fired by criminal prosecution. excluded from a list of urgently sell the loans Killinger a few months Justice, the FBI and the large financial firms whose packaged as securities to later, Cathcart said. Securities and Exchange stock couldn’t be sold short Wall Street, Levin said. The other risk officer, Commission opened inves-under a temporary govern-Two former WaMu chief James Vanasek, testified tigations into Washington ment ban in July 2008. In risk officers said they tried that he tried to limit loans Mutual soon after its col-short-selling, traders bet a to curb risky lending prac-to those who were unlikely lapse. stock price will drop and tices by the bank. But they to be able to repay and the 
The Senate subcommit-use borrowed shares to said they met resistance number of loans made tee is known for conduct-profit from any decline. from top management without verifying borrow­ing hard-hitting investiga-“For those that were part when they brought their ers’ income. But his efforts tions by bipartisan staff of the inner circle and concerns to them. fell flat “without solid exec-and has sometimes made were ‘too clubby to fail,’ As the housing bust utive management sup-such referrals to federal the benefits were obvious,” deepened in late 2007 and port,” Vanasek said. 


Trump rebounds from third bankruptcy 
Associated Press 

ATLANTIC CITY, N.J. — About to leave its third bankruptcy behind, Trump Entertainment Resorts has a simple formula for the future in the cutthroat Atlantic City casino market: less debt, more cash and more Ivanka. 
It also plans to expand beyond New Jersey. 
A federal bankruptcy judge on Monday chose bondholders led by New York-based Avenue Capital Group and Donald Trump and his daughter Ivanka to buy the com­pany out of bankruptcy for $225 million. Their bid topped a rival one from billionaire Carl Icahn, who wanted to swap the $486 million mortgage he holds on Trump Entertainment for owner­ship of the company. 
When Trump Entertainment emerges from bankruptcy court later this year, its debt will be cut to $334 million, from nearly $1.8 billion. And that, Donald Trump says, is why the company will succeed where it failed three times before. 
“This time we really cut the debt, ” he told The Associated Press on Tuesday. “It was never really cut enough. We’ve cut the debt down to a low level, and we now have a company in good financial shape.” 
Icahn’s plan would have elimi­nated all the company’s debt, but it also would have wiped out bondholders’ investments — a key factor that led Judge Judith Wizmur to side with the proposal from the Trumps and the bond­holders. 
Mark Juliano, Trump Entertainment’s CEO, said the company’s first priority is revital­izing the three Atlantic City casi­nos it owns: the Trump Taj Mahal Casino resort, Trump Plaza Hotel and Casino and Trump Marina Hotel Casino, which is being put back on the selling block this week. 
But Juliano said the company will seek opportunities in other states to lessen its dependence on a single, struggling market, par­ticularly if it can sell Trump Marina. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Wednesday, April 14, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 

Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnewseditor.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 pcoveney@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Amanda Gray Chris Masoud Megan Doyle Molly Sammon Caitlyn Kalscheur Andrew Owens 
Graphics Scene 
Sofia Iturbe Jordan Gamble 
Viewpoint 
Patricia Fernandez 
In defense of baseball 

Spring in the Midwest is exciting. The snow has finally melted (we think), the temperature has warmed up to bear­able temperatures and the sun shines for more than 10 minutes per month. To me, though, 
the coming of Andy Ziccarelli
spring has meant only one thing for 
Moment of 
as long as I can 
Inertia 

remember: the arrival of baseball season. 
Now, some don’t share my enthusi­asm. I have heard a lot of negative things said about the game of baseball, just within the past few weeks. Some of my favorites include calling it “the most boring game on the planet,” “painful to watch” and that “you need to be drunk to be able to enjoy it.” The best, though, was the person that I over­heard say that baseball is “three min­utes of action packed into three hours.” It was kind of funny. It is also complete­ly and totally wrong. Somewhere along the line, baseball developed a reputa­tion for being an unexciting game. Quite the contrary, I would even make the claim that baseball is maybe the most interesting and exciting sport played. I’ll wait for you to stop laughing before I explain. 
What makes baseball so entertaining isn’t necessarily the physical aspect, though it certainly is important. The mental aspect and the strategy involved in good baseball is what sets it apart from every other game that is played in the world. My dad always told me that baseball is “a thinking man’s game,” and he couldn’t be more right. The game changes on literally every single pitch. For example, if a pitcher throws a ball on a 1-1 count, he has just dug himself into a hole and likely has to come with a fastball that he knows he can throw for a strike on the next pitch. 
The hitter knows this too, though, and can be ready for it. However, if the same pitch is moved just a few inches and crosses the plate in the strike zone, then now the pitcher has two strikes on the batter and can afford to throw just about any pitch in his repertoire to try to fool him. The pitcher and hitter both must take into account what type of pitches the pitcher can throw, what pitch he tends to throw in certain situa­tions, what locations and types of pitch­es the batter likes to hit, what pitch the pitcher threw in a similar situation in the past (and if the batter will be expecting the same thing), among other concerns. So does the pitcher go with the fastball knowing that the batter is expecting it, or does he try and fool him with the curveball, which is harder to control? Where do the fielders position themselves and where are they going to the ball if it is hit to them? Does the manager look to the bench to try and create a more favorable matchup? Each pitch in baseball creates a new dilemma. No two situations are ever the same. So, while you look at base­ball and see a game that is boring and always looks the same, I see a game that provides me with something that I have never seen before on a nightly basis. 
Now, baseball is not just a mental exercise. Otherwise, it would be as entertaining as watching chess. The physical aspect can spoil even the best of strategies if a player isn’t careful. A pitcher can have the perfect pitch called for a certain situation, but if he leaves it hanging over the middle of the plate instead of on the corner, he might see it sail over the wall for a home run. Likewise, a hitter can know exactly what pitch is coming, but if his swing is only a few hundredths of a second late or early, he will come up with nothing but air. 
Some people say that there is not enough action and excitement in base­ball to keep them interested, and to a point, I understand where those people are coming from. There can be stretch­es of games that consist of nothing but strikeouts and groundouts for innings at a time. Scoring is scarce. But there are few things that are more majestic and pure than seeing a hitter square up a pitch and drive it for what seems like minutes into the night sky, and then watching it clear the fence for a home run. Plus, because of the pace of the game, there is a lot of tension that is built up in the late innings of a close game. Anticipation grows with each pitch of a critical at-bat. Then, in an instant, whether the outcome is a clutch base hit or a huge strikeout, all of the tension that has been built up in the stadium is released all at once in the form of uncontrolled excitement, or in many cases, extreme frustration. The nature of the game acts like an emotional amplifier for everyone involved, and it creates unforgettable moments, both good and bad. 
Football may have overtaken baseball as America’s most popular sport, but baseball will always remain our nation­al pastime. There is a deeply rooted, almost religious, bond between the game and this country. It has produced heroes and legends for generations and has created a tradition that I, for one, am proud to be a part of. 
Andy Ziccarelli hates word limits because he could write about baseball for pages. He is a junior majoring in civil engineering and can be reached at aziccare@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Forever is composed of nows.” 
Emily Dickinson
U.S. poet 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Man is distinguished from all othercreatures by the faculty oflaughter.” 
Joseph Addison
U.S. poet 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Wednesday, April 14, 2010 page 9 
What can body odor tells us about sexual attraction and sexual orientation? 
Can “BO” (body odor) actually be a good thing? 
Sexual attraction is complicated. While we may swoon over self-pro­fessed “types” (blue eyes, brown hair, great smile), mate selection 
Jessica D. 
relies heavily on 

Payne, Ph.D. 
a series of con­scious and Guest unconscious cal-

Columnist 
culations made deep within our brains. 

Take body odor, for instance. Most of us try to cover it up with deodorants and perfumes, but BO might actually help us find our best-fit romantic part­ners. Considerable evidence suggests that humans produce individually unique body odors, and that we easily discriminate between the body odors of different people. Even newborns can tell the difference between the odor of their own mothers and those of mothers of other infants. Thus, BO may be crucial for forming social rela­tionships, even early in life. 
Body odor is largely influenced by Major Histocompatibility Complex (MHC) molecules, which are genetical­ly determined and linked to the immune system. Experiments on non­human animals and human partici­pants have shown that we tend to judge potential sexual partners as more attractive if their MHC composi­tion is substantially different from our own. In other words, opposites really might attract, perhaps because such variation in our immunity makes the 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

It’s time for the world’s greatest sporting event: the FIFA World Cup. This quadrennial 32-team tournament pits some of the best footballing coun­tries against one another to determine which country gets lift the most presti­gious trophy in sports. I remember waking up in the early hours in 2002 to watch the USA take on Mexico and feeling elated when the stars and stripes came through. I remember watching America be one of two teams to score against the eventual world champions Italy in 2006. Now we reach 2010 and I am ready for another thriller of international soccer. But what’s this? I suddenly see mainstream newspapers, television networks and magazines covering soccer like it’s their job. They are all proclaiming soc­cer is about to take off in the USA! Or can we win the cup? 
population more resistant to disease. Interestingly, MHC has also been linked directly to sexual orientation, suggesting that the differences in MHC that influence sexual orientation may be related to the differences in MHC that regulate odor production. 
In the last article of this series, Professor Wirth, also in the Psychology Department, talked about hormones, or the chemical signals that act on cells within an individual. Pheromones, on the other hand, are chemical signals that influence the behavior and physiology of other indi­viduals. Scientists think that pheromones are detected by the olfac­tory system or by the vomeronasal organ (VNO), which is located in the nasal cavity. Perhaps because this region is vestigial in humans, pheromones may or may not be active in human mating behavior. In lab ani­mals, however, pheromones have pro­found effects on other animals. For example, when adult male rodents are around, females will reach puberty faster, and in some cases their estrous cycles will synchronize. 
Our vestigial VNOs aside, odor may play a large role in human sexual attraction. For example, the chemical 4-16-androstadien-3-one, or ‘and’ for short, is an androgen-like chemical found in the underarm sweat of males and females, and we humans are highly sensitive to it. Brain imaging studies show that and exposure acti­vates brain regions that are critical for sexual behavior, such as olfactory areas and regions of the hypothala­mus. A recent study showed that les­bian women process ‘and’ with their olfactory systems rather than the hypothalamus, which is the opposite of heterosexual women. 
Just like heterosexuals then, people who are attracted to the same sex may follow their noses. Consider, for exam­ple, a 2005 study published in the prestigious journal Psychological Science, which showed that gay men and lesbian women had different body odor preferences than straight men and women. 
Now, this is a study that would be interesting to participate in! For nine days volunteers used only odorless soaps and shampoo, not shaving their armpits, and abstaining from garlic, curry and cumin. They then wore cot­ton pads wedged into their armpits for several days while going about their typical activities. The pads were cut up and randomly placed in plastic squeeze bottles with flip-top lids for easy access smelling. Shortly there­after, another set of volunteers, of both sexes and sexual orientations, smelled and rated the odors on inten­sity and pleasantness on scales of 1 to 10. 
Interestingly, homosexual men had different preferences than straight men, straight women and lesbian women. Not only were their body odor preferences different than these other groups, but their own body odor was regarded differently than these other groups as well. Homosexual men were drawn to the odors of other gay men and heterosexual women, while odors 

Stop the soccer boom articles 
First, there is no way USA will win  will boom. Rather than embrace soccer  time in 40 years that USA qualified.  
the cup. Even a diehard would be will- they expected soccer to suddenly and  Now the USA is in its fifth straight  
ing to admit it. We are not there yet. It  magically transform them into fans and  World Cup and has 10 times the talent  
is the former point that I wish to  they’d comprehend every little thing  of that 1990 squad. I could go on and  
address. As reliable as the World Cup  done on the pitch. This never happened  on of how MLS is currently outdrawing  
comes every four years, as does the  and thus people never gave soccer a  the NBA and NHL or that soccer is the  
articles regarding soccer and America.  fighting chance. So every time someone  most participated in sport, but that  
It’s a socially intriguing and conflict- would write: Here Comes Soccer, this  avoids the point. These articles about  
creating topic. Soccer has long been  group would laugh and say: “I’ve been  how soccer is about to catch on do  
here, starting with the first organized  hearing that for 30 years.” What they  nothing but avoid history and the truth  
match: Rutgers-Princeton on Nov. 6,  fail to take into account is that soccer  that soccer was here and is here. It  
1869. It grew to be the winter sport  has grown in leaps and bounds since  doesn’t need a magical boom to make it  
paralleling baseball (being that most  the writers started saying soccer is  popular when it already is. But I will be  
clubs were owned by baseball owners)  going to be big.  ready; with 59 days until the World  
and became the second most popular  Twenty years ago you would be lucky  Cup, I’ll take the crazy articles with lit- 
professional sport in America. Then a  to get an English match on TV, now  tle research, just in order to get to the  
combination of the Great Depression  there are four to five live matches  Cup.  
and petty politics killed it until the  every weekend and some even during  
birth of the North American Soccer  the week (North London Derby 3 p.m.  Tim Staub  
League in the late 60s. This is where  Wednesday on ESPN2). Some of you  freshman  
we see the articles regarding the  weren’t even born when USA qualified  Dillon Hall  
return of soccer to America and how it  for World Cup 1990. It was the first  April 13  

from gay men were the least preferred by heterosexual men and women and by lesbian women. 
Many scientists, myself included, believe that these findings suggest that neurobiological processes are at work in determining our sexual orien­tation, just as they are in determining our sexual assignment, although they could certainly interact with environ­mental influences as well. 
In his related article, Professor Fuentes pointed out that homosexual activity exists naturally (i.e. in nature) across a wide array of species. His observations were echoed in the cover article in last Sunday’s New York Times Magazine, “The Love that Dares Not Squawk its Name: Inside the Science of Same-Sex Animal Pairings” by Jon Mooallem. Given the ubiquity of homosexual behavior, across time and across species, and given that research has not found any effect of parenting style or childhood experi­ences on sexual orientation, what, then, causes people to be gay, straight or bisexual? The answer to that ques­tion will surely be complex, but an ever-growing biological database strongly suggests that nature plays a fundamental role in why we are attracted to the people we are and fall in love with the people we do. 
Jessica D. Payne is an assistant professor of psychology. She can be reached at jpayne7@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 


The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Wednesday, April 14, 2010 

SOFIA ITURBE I Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Wednesday, April 14, 2010 page 11 

The Scene section is written by vol­unteers. It may be hard to believe, but we’re not paid for our efforts; we write because we like writing, culture and deep down, we believe we have good taste. The articles reflect this: They 
Nick Anderson 
are usually about subjects we love or hate. To combat Scene Writer this, I’m writing about a show I’ve never seen but is hugely popular, “Glee” on Fox. On Tuesday night, it returned for the second half of its first season. I wrote in real time as I watched in an effort to make the most honest record possible of my reactions. 
9:27 Ryan Seacrest ended American Idol with “Glee out!” I can’t say it excites me. 
9:28 The show gives a recap of the season so far. They talk fast and make things appear more dramatic than they actually are. 
9:30 Sue, the resident wicked witch, makes an appearance. She’s well-writ­ten and performed. I’m going to miss her when she’s not on screen. The editing reminds me of a Dan Brown novel: There’s a lot happening and it’s presented in the choppiest and most confusing way possible. 
9:35 The first romantic sub-plot (other than a pregnancy) comes in for Will. I can’t honestly tell if the charac­ters are charming or creepy. 
9:37 Reflecting on it, I don’t think I’ve ever watched a show about high school other than “Freaks and Geeks.” There’s been more drama in 10 min­utes of “Glee” than my entire high school career. 
9:38 First song: The Doors, “Hello I Love You.” I’m hugely unimpressed. It fits into the story with only a bit of stretching. Finn, wandering the halls singing like he has a message to covey, reminds me of an 80s music video. As much as the decline of MTV is maligned, it may be for the best if these are the videos we’d be left with. 
9:43 A break-up comes from Finn while referencing his “inner-rock star.” This scene produces tears. It’s only been 16 minutes. I do not miss high school at all. 
9:45 Rachel sings All-American Rejects. The singing, dancing and lip syncing is the worst not only so far on the show, but also since Ashley Simpson’s SNL performance. Luckily there is an inappropriate break-dancer present to try to redeem the scene. 
9:49 A rival singer appears, singing Lionel Richie and wearing all black. I’ve fully accepted the campiness of the show. It’s slowly becoming more vaudevillian and entertaining. 
9:52 At the second commercial break, I realized why this show is so enchanting to our generation: Disney movies defined our childhood. Why can’t we keep watching them, but with more sex appeal? 
9:58 “Hello Again” by Neil Diamond is playing in the background. Will takes time out of acting to explain why this is an appropriate song choice. The writers don’t seem to think much of their audience’s intelligence. 
10:06 This is, depending on how you count, the second instance of cheating on the show. This whole show has a strange mixture of evil, wisdom, hon­esty and high school clichés. If nothing else, it’s unique. 
10:09 Admittedly, I’ve only seen 31 minutes of the series but many of the characters play straight into stereo­types. 
10:13 The “Old Maids’ Club.” This may be the best-written scene on the episode. It’s pure absurdity with just a small bit of malevolence added in. It’s close to how high school boys imagine how high school girls work. 
10:17 I think these people go to high school inside a Taylor Swift song. 
10:23 The Beatles “Hello Goodbye” makes a predictable appearance. It’s much worse than the original, but then again, every Beatles’ cover is. 
10:25 Sue performs Madonna’s “Vogue” as a commercial for next week’s episode, complete with cone bra. I’d call it gimmicky, but that would imply the rest of the show isn’t. The show didn’t quite feel complete as the credits rolled. 
Final thoughts: It’s a strange time for Glee to be on the air. Television is cur­rently in a golden age of drama but this show bucks the trend. It’s fun, but there’s little substance and the only substantial difference from a soap opera is the music. I can’t say I’m eagerly awaiting another episode, but I’ll probably give the show another chance when Neil Patrick Harris guest stars. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Nick Anderson at nanders5@nd.edu 



By COURTNEY COX 
Scene Writer 
It’s that time of year again — the annual release of the Lollapalooza lineup. 
The release of the lineup began as a game. The crafty folks at C3 Presents, the Texas-based concert promotion company, essentially created a “Wheel of Fortune” style board with all of the names of the bands. 
From that point it wasn’t too difficult to deci­pher the eventual headliners because four blank spaces marking a four-letter word fol­lowed by another four-letter word could of course only be Lady Gaga. There was much less mystique about who the headliners would be this year because many very reputable leaks that gave away basically all six. 
However anti-climactic the revealing of the headliners may have been, the actually appear­ance of these six groups is quite impressive. Okay, sure, no one actually wants to see Green Day, unless they’re trying to come off as ironic or something, but the others are all worth going to. 
The problem with having such amazing headliners is that there will be a guaranteed conflict no matter what. To have to choose between Arcade Fire and Lady Gaga might just be too much to handle. Either way, the headlin­ing stages will be sure to have loyal fanatics camping out all day at the front of the crowd simply to get the best seats for the likes of Soundgarden, Phoenix, The Strokes, Arcade Fire and Lady Gaga. Again, Green Day is laugh­able, but what can you do? 
The rest of the lineup is nothing to scoff at either. While MGMT’s new album “Congratulations” may not have offered what casual listeners were looking for it, is still a good album in its own right and they will most definitely draw a large crowd of people who come just to see them play “Kids.” 
The British quartet Hot Chip promises to be a fun time as well. Their electro-rock has res­onated with fans for quite some time and they will no doubt be able to get the crowd dancing. It will also be a great opportunity to hear the band’s new album “One Life Stand” live. Perhaps they will even perform their cover of Shakira’s “She Wolf.” 
Cut Copy is another one of those dancey bands that is sure to force thousands of people to cram into a tiny field. Some may have been introduced to the band’s music through an iTunes free download about a year and a half ago, but their most famous song, “Lights and Music” from their album “In Ghost Colours,” is the perfect example of their aesthetic. 
They are very electronic driven but they don’t cease to be appealing to fans because their music is in fact very catchy. Ideally they would receive a time slot later in the night so that fes­tival-goers can actually enjoy the lights while listening to the music of Cut Copy. 
The happiest band on earth, Matt and Kim, is returning to Lollapalooza after having played for the festival in 2007. The Brooklyn-based duo is known for its upbeat pop, energetic live shows and overall adorableness. For those of unfamiliar with the band, they are most well known for the song “Daylight,” which had been featured in a Bacardi commercial. If anything they’re worth seeing simply because they’re so darn cute. 
These bands represent only a fraction of the amazing groups set to perform August 6 to 8 in Chicago’s Grant Park. Other bands worth checking out include Yeasayer, Edward Sharpe & the Magnetic Zeroes, Dirty Projectors, The New Pornographers, Blitzen Trapper and so many more. 
So, “Shirtless Jerks” and “Hipster Parents,” dish out that $215 and get psyched. Lollapalooza 2010 is shaping up to be quite the event. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 



SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, April 14, 2010 
MLB 

Yankees welcome Matsui back in home opener 
Los Angeles hits four home runs in win over Arizona; Detroit makes late comeback in victory over Kansas City 
Joe Girardi said. “Andy won the that moment. It’s something that I 
Associated Press 

last game at the Stadium last year did not anticipate at all,” he said 
NEW YORK — Andy Pettitte hit and won the first one this year — through a translator. “It’s some-the corners, Derek Jeter homered pretty fitting. Derek had some big thing that I will remember forever, into the right-center field stands, hits, Jorgie. Mo closed it out. It is that moment. I’m just very happy Jorge Posada rambled into second appropriate.” and very thankful, the way that base for a double. And for good With the 2009 World Series ban-the fans had welcomed me back.” measure, Mariano Rivera closed it ner whipping in a chilly breeze, The Angels’ designated hitter out with a cutter. Pettitte (1-0) returned to the stepped out and tipped his helmet 
Don’t tell the Yankees’ core four Yankee Stadium mound for the before striking out — another it’s 2010. first time since he won the clinch-cheer — to end the inning and got 
The longtime All-Stars each ing Game 6 against Philadelphia tangled with Posada, who playfully picked up World Series ring No. 5, last November. He threw 100 tagged him a couple of times. then led New York to a victory in pitches in six crisp innings as the Matsui went 0 for 5 in front of a its home opener Tuesday, 7-5 over Yankees dropped the Angels to 2-record regular-season crowd of the Los Angeles Angels in front of 6, their worst start since 1972. 49,293 at the ballpark, now in its a record crowd that included The 40-year-old Rivera was second year. owner George Steinbrenner. needed to earn his third save after “The fans wanted him to tip his 
“Everyone talks about how long another ex-Yankee, Bobby Abreu, hat. I just felt he deserved that so I we’ve been here but in our minds hit a grand slam in the ninth off stepped off the mound,” Pettitte it seems like we are just still little Dave Robertson to make it 7-5. said. “As soon as he steps in the kids,” said Jeter, the AL Rookie of “Obviously we did too many box, it’s just put your head down. home opener. Blake went 1 for 2 left the D’backs trailing 9-5. the Year in 1996. “We want to things poorly early in the game You better make good pitches to with a walk and is batting .389, come out here and contribute and and had to crawl our way back him.” carrying over his strong spring Tigers 6, Royals 5 try and be consistent. That’s what and it was too little too late,” Jeter, who led off the Yankees’ into the regular season. Carlos Guillen’s two-run double we tried to do throughout the Angels manager Mike Scioscia last regular-season home game Ramirez, Kemp and Ethier capped a six-run rally in the sev­years and that’ll never change.” said. “There’s definitely some with a home run, hit his first homered in the same game for enth inning and the Detroit Tigers 
The Angels’ Hideki Matsui might things we need to clean up the homer of the year in the fourth the second time since Ramirez pulled off another big comeback, have gotten the loudest ovation of way we’re playing ball this week.” and hit a sharp grounder off Ervin joined the Dodgers in 2008. beating the Kansas City Royals the stirring ceremony that cele-Matsui was mobbed by his for-Santana’s thigh for another RBI in Clayton Kershaw (1-0) allowed Tuesday. brated the Yankees’ 27th title, mer teammates near the mound the fifth. two runs and three hits in 5 1-3 Jose Guillen hit his fourth home with fans welcoming back the after getting his ring in the Nick Johnson also homered for innings. The 22-year-old left-han-run in three games as the Royals World Series MVP. But the four pregame festivities. He was New York, who hit a team-record der struck out seven and walked took a 5-0 lead against Dontrelle stars who last won a title in 2000 regaled with a prolonged standing 136 homers in their first year at five in his second start after a no-Willis and the Detroit bullpen. But wound up winners in the end. salute when he stepped into the the ballpark. The most home runs decision in the Dodgers’ 4-3, 10-just like Sunday, when the Tigers 
“They all played big roles last batter’s box in the first inning. across 161st Street, now a fading inning loss at Pittsburgh last fell behind 5-0 to Cleveland, they year, as well,” Yankees manager “I was very deeply moved by memory — thanks to a wrecking week. recovered to win. crew — was 126 in 2004 and ‘05. Ian Kennedy (0-1) gave up six The Tigers hadn’t gotten a run-
Johnson homered off Santana runs and six hits over 4 1-3 ner past first in the first six (0-2) in his first at-bat in pinstripes innings in his first game against innings against Kansas City, then since 2003, when he was traded the Dodgers. rallied against four pitchers. to Montreal during the offseason, Ramirez’s leadoff homer in the Gerald Laird doubled home helping the Yankees win for the fourth — No. 547 of his career Brandon Inge with one out and 12th time in the last 13 home and his 2,501st hit — gave Los chased Royals starter Brian openers. They were routed by Angeles a 2-1 lead. He hit a 2-2 Bannister. Scott Sizemore hit Cleveland in the first game at the pitch from Kennedy halfway up Roman Colon’s second pitch for a new stadium on April 16, 2009. the pavilion in left-center, elicting run-scoring double and with two 
Alex Rodriguez received his first chants of “Manny! Manny!” from outs, Austin Jackson pulled the World Series ring and later drove the sellout crowd of 56,000. Tigers within 5-3 with Detroit’s in two runs with a three-hop sin-Ramirez, who has been unusually third RBI double in four batters. gle off reliever Jason Bulger that quiet around the media since Dusty Hughes (0-1) came in, but nicked diving shortstop Erick spring training, responded with a didn’t retire either batter he faced, Aybar’s glove in the sixth to make brief curtain call from the top of leaving Juan Cruz to face Miguel it 5-0. Posada drove in a run, too. the dugout steps. Cabrera with the bases loaded. A 
Pettitte became the first pitcher James Loney doubled before four-pitch walk brought in in postseason history to start and Blake went deep, reaching the Detroit’s fourth run, and Guillen win all three clinching games, first row of the left-field pavilion hit a two-run double on the next including Game 6 of the ALCS to make it 4-1. pitch to put Detroit up 6-5. against the Angels, and he began In the fifth, Kemp sent a 3-2 Reliever Joel Zumaya (2-0) this season in equally fine fashion. pitch over the wall in right for his picked up the win and Jose He allowed a run and six hits third homer of the season, bring-Valverde pitched a perfect ninth against Boston in his first start ing his girlfriend Rihanna to her for his second save. and shut down the Angels’ speedy feet for a celebration dance The Royals left the bases loaded offense for his 230th career win. behind the dugout. against Willis in the first, but took 
Ethier connected on an 0-2 advantage of their next scoring Dodgers 9, Diamondbacks 5 pitch from Esmerling Vasquez in opportunity. David DeJesus led off 
Manny Ramirez homered for the sixth, making it 9-2. the third with his first homer of the first time this season, the first The Dodgers led 1-0 on Russell the season, and with one out, Scott of four longballs by the Dodgers, Martin’s bases-loaded sacrifice fly Podsednik walked and took third and Los Angeles beat the Arizona in the first. on Guillen’s double. Diamondbacks Tuesday to win its Ramon Ortiz retired the first Willis struck out Rick Ankiel, but home opener for the third consec-two Arizona batters in the sev-Alberto Callaspo made it 3-0 with utive year. enth, then gave up three runs in a two-run single. 
Casey Blake hit a two-run drive, his second major league appear-Guillen made it 4-0 with a Matt Kemp added a solo shot and ance since Oct. 1, 2007. He homer in the fifth and the Royals Andre Ethier hit a three-run allowed a two-run homer to Mark added a fifth run off Zumaya in homer for the Dodgers, who beat Reynolds on the first pitch and an the seventh on Yuniesky San Francisco 11-1 in their 2009 RBI single to Kelly Johnson that Betancourt’s RBI single. 



The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Darling 2 bedroom, 2 bathroom CONSIDERING ADOPTION? ND cottage ALUMS hoping to adopt. with hard wood floors, ———————————————
FOR RENT NOTICES WANTED PERSONAL 
front porch and patio, Please visit our website New upscale apts. Graduation Weekend hotel rooms: Drivers: UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Less than 1 mil from ND, next to close to Eddy St. Commons. We have two rooms at the Hilton Flatbed. not go it alone. Notre Dame has http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro-Taco Bell on SR 933. 2-story, 8 unit 1334 Corby Blvd, Garden Inn for ND-SMC graduation Great Benefits! many resources in place to assist file.net. bldg. available for summer months weekend. Rooms are available you. ———————————————­Each has 2bd/2bath. GE appli-short term lease. Thursday, Friday and Saturday. Over the Road. If you or someone you care about ances w/dishwasher. The Hilton Garden Inn is ideally Midwest Runs Tarp Exp, CDL-A 2 If you or someone you love needs has been sexually assaulted, Mstr. bdrm w/walkin closet. May, June, July $600 per month. located on SMC campus and right yrs w/Flatbed confidential support or assistance, we can help. No water/sewer bill. $1000/mo across from ND. Rooms offered at please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 starting. Call 574-309.6961. their face value. Exp. 866-394-1944 x 123/117 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more For more information, visit Notre Call Holiday Inn Express @ 968-——————————————— If interested, email information, visit ND's web site: Dame's website: 8080 &amp; leave msg. gradrentals.viewwork.com fontanaricci@mac.com centraloregontruck.com http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu http.csap.nd.edu ——————————————— ——————————————— ———————————————-———————————————-———————————————-———————————————­
Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Wednesday, April 14, 2010 page 13 
Women’s Division I Tennis ITA Poll 
team previous 
1 Baylor 2 2 North Carolina 1 3 Michigan 8 4 Florida 3 5 Northwestern 4 6 NOTRE DAME 6 7 Duke 5 8 UCLA 7 9 Clemson 10 10 Miami 9 11 Stanford 12 12 California 11 13 Florida State 17 14 Georgia 13 15 South Carolina 19 16 Tennessee 14 17 Southern California 18 18 Mississippi NR 19 South Florida 15 20 Georgia Tech 20 21 Arizona State 16 22 Iowa NR 23 Arkansas 22 24 VCU NR 25 Washington 23 
Men’s Division I Outdoor Track USTFCCCA Poll 
team  previous  
1  Florida  1  
2  Texas A&M  2  
3  Oregon  3  
4  Texas Tech  5  
5  Florida State  4  
6  Southern California  6  
7  Auburn  7  
8  LSU  8  
9  South Carolina  11  
10  Arizona State  9  
11  Mississippi State  12  
12  Nebraska  10  
13  Oklahoma  13  
14  Baylor  19  
15  Louisville  14  
16  Virginia Tech  17  
17  Mississippi  23  
18  Arkansas  15  
19  California  18  
20  Brigham Young  24  
21  Minnesota  20  
22  Kansas State  NR  
23  Washington State  22  
24  Tennessee  21  
25  Wisconsin  25  



around the dial 
MLB Baseball 
Astros at Cardinals 8 p.m., ESPN2 
NHL Hockey 

Red Wings at Coyotes 10 p.m., Versus 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

NCAAmakeschangestobasketballrecruitingrules 
Associated Press 

INDIANAPOLIS — College basketball coaches no longer have to shy away from potential recruits dur­ing summer camps and clinics on their own cam­pus. 
On Tuesday, the NCAA’s Legislative Council announced it would allow coaches to have “recruiting discussions” on campus, loosening a rule that was nearly impossible to enforce anyway. The change does not mean coaches can go into full recruiting mode, but they can converse with players they are actually recruiting. 
The changes must still be approved by the NCAA’s Board of Directors, which meets later this month. The proposal does not distin­guish between head coach­es or assistants. 
“The coach cannot give them campus tours and do the kinds of things that they would do on an official visit,” said Steve Mallonee, the NCAA’s managing direc­tor of academic and mem­bership affairs. “We wanted to eliminate some of the third-party influence in recruiting.” 
The proposals intended to clean up college basketball recruiting gained traction in October when the board unanimously endorsed a package of changes. Some were adopted. Others did not survive the NCAA’s rig-
IN BRIEF 

NFL invites 16 players to next week’s NFL Draft 
NEW YORK — Sam Bradford, Ndamukong Suh and Gerald McCoy are among 16 play­ers who have accepted invitations to the NFL draft. 
The Oklahoma quarterback and the defen­sive tackles from Nebraska and Oklahoma are projected to be the top three picks on April 22. 
With the draft extended to three days, the first two in prime time, the NFL has increased the number of player invitations. Also accepting are running backs C.J. Spiller of Clemson and Jahvid Best of Cal; corner-backs Joe Haden of Florida and Brandon Ghee of Wake Forest; offensive tackles Russell Okung of Oklahoma State, Bryan Bulaga of Iowa and Trent Williams of Oklahoma; defensive tackles Lamarr Houston of Texas, Jared Odrick of Penn State and Dan Williams of Tennessee; defen­sive end Derrick Morgan of Georgia Tech; receiver Demaryius Thomas of Georgia Tech and safety Eric Berry of Tennessee. 
orous legislative process. 
The council considered more than 30 proposals during a two-day meeting this week and passed more than 20, including an amended package that cre­ates new testing require­ments for the sickle cell genetic trait that has been linked to the deaths of some athletes. 
Most of today’s newborns now undergo the test, which many states were offering in 1998. Some of today’s college athletes, however, have not been tested and the NCAA rec­ommended last June that all athletes be tested. 
The recommendation came as part of lawsuit set­tlement with the family of a former Rice football player who died. 
On Tuesday, the council decided to give athletes three options: Take the test, provide documentation they have been tested or sign a release to decline the test. 
“We as a council felt very confident after we had taken the vote that certainly the vote shows the support of the council as well as the membership for the health, welfare and well-being of the student-athlete while also providing for the ability to opt out of the test if for some reason they have con­cerns about taking the test,” said Joe D’Antonio, the committee chairman and senior associate com­missioner of the Big East. 
QB Roethlisberger meets with commissioner Goodell 
NEW YORK — Ben Roethlisberger has finished his meeting with NFL commissioner Roger Goodell, and there’s no immediate word if the Steelers quarterback will be pun­ished for his problems off the field. 
Roethlisberger flew to New York from his Pittsburgh home one day after a Georgia district attorney announced the player would not be charged after a college student accused him of sexually assaulting her in a nightclub bathroom last month. 
He tells ESPN that Tuesday’s meet­ing was “very productive.” 
NFL spokesman Greg Aiello says the league will review the facts — in accordance with its personal con­duct code — and will follow up with Roethlisberger and the Steelers. 
The Steelers, clearly angered with their star player’s conduct, can dis­cipline Roethlisberger even if the league doesn’t. 
Roy’s playoff status unknown 
after tearing meniscus in knee 
PORTLAND, Ore. — Portland Trail Blazers guard Brandon Roy has a torn meniscus in his right knee and his status for the playoffs is uncer­tain. 
The three-time All-Star will miss Monday night’s game against the Oklahoma City Thunder and Wednesday’s regular season finale against Golden State on Wednesday night. 
He will require surgery and will be out from four to six weeks. But he said he may try to play with the injury in the playoffs because doctors told him it cannot get worse. 
“I want to play,” Roy said. “It’s the playoffs. You play 82 games and take a beating just to get to this point.” 
Roy is the Blazers’ leading scorer with 21.5 points per game. He injured his knee on Sunday, 11 min­utes into the Blazers 91-88 victory at the Los Angeles Lakers. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 14, 2010 
NCAA FOOTBALL 

Paterno discusses adding to Big Ten conference 
Associated Press 
Penn State coach Joe Paterno, who wed the former Suzanne Pohland in 1962, knows a thing or two about what makes a suc­cessful marriage. 
So he recognizes how impor­tant it is for the Big Ten to pick the right partner or partners if it expands from its current 11 teams. 
“The thing that you have to do is when you get married, you’d better marry somebody you love,” the 83-year-old Paterno said Tuesday during spring drills for his 45th season as head coach. “That means somebody who appreciates what you want to do.” 
The Big Ten is exploring the possibility of expanding. Paterno said the conference cannot add schools just to get bigger but needs to invite like-minded institutions. 
“So we can really mesh. That it’s going to be a happy mar­riage, and we’re all on the same page and nobody domi­nates it,” Paterno said on a Big Ten coaches teleconference. “It’s not a question of just bringing somebody in that you’re just going to kick around. It’s a question of bring­ing someone in who can handle the academics, the research, AAU schools, people with a commitment to the women’s sports, a commitment to all sports programs, a commitment to the ideals of what intercolle­giate athletics should be all about.” 
The conference made its trademark name into a mis­nomer when it added an 11th school, Penn State, in 1993. 
Northwestern coach Pat Fitzgerald said he’s OK if the Big Ten doesn’t budge. 
“I’m more of a traditionalist,” Fitzgerald said. “We need to be sure we know where the land­scape is going to go in college football. But I am not, for one, saying we have to keep up with the Joneses. The Big Ten prod­uct is as competitive as it’s ever been. At this point, if we’re going to add a team or teams, it needs to be the significance of when we added Penn State.” 
Paterno said that no adminis­trators have asked him about his thinking on the subject of expansion, but he would favor the Big Ten adding at least one team in the East to help broad­en the appeal to television audi­ences. More members would mean a lucrative and attention-drawing conference champi­onship in football. 
“Can you find one, two, three, four? I don’t know,” he said. “That’s up to some people that are outside my realm.” 
On the field, Paterno’s Nittany Lions are one of four Big Ten teams trying to replace a grad­uated starting quarterback this spring. Illinois lost Juice Williams, Northwestern is with­out Mike Kafka, Penn State must find a replacement for Daryll Clark and Purdue is missing Joey Elliott. 
Illini coach Ron Zook is keep­ing an eye on redshirt freshman Nathan Scheelhaase, sopho­more Jacob Charest, who spelled Williams a year ago, and true freshman Chandler Whitmer. 
“They’ve all kind of had their positive things and they’ve all made some mistakes,” said Zook, back for his sixth year. “To me, it’s going to be the one guy who comes out of it who can learn from his mistakes and not make the same mistakes.” 
Northwestern is taking a hard look at junior Dan Persa, who saw action in 10 games a year ago. 
Paterno said his squad, com­ing off an 11-2 season, hasn’t been all that impressive mid­way through spring workouts. 
“We’re not a very good foot­ball team right now,” he said. “The quarterbacks are very average, but they’re very young. Hopefully over a period of time they get better. We’re just not doing some things very well. The kicking game is terri­ble. We’ve got six more prac­tices and we’re going to try to concentrate on getting a little bit better.” 
At Purdue, Elliott’s successor likely will be junior Robert Marve or sophomore Caleb TerBush, the backup a year ago. Coach Danny Hope has had difficulty just getting enough guys together to practice. 
“At one point in time, we had as many as 20 guys out, includ­ing 10 starters,” he said. “Some of the guys have come back.” 
Michigan has 16 starters back from last year — the most in the conference. But the Wolverines, who lost their final five games while sinking into a tie for last place with Indiana last season, have a tight battle going on at quarterback as well between last year’s starter, Tate Forcier, backup Denard Robinson and touted incoming freshman Devin Gardner, who enrolled in January and is pushing the two sophomores. 
“Tate knows he can’t be aver­age and expect to be a starting quarterback,” coach Rich Rodriguez said. 
Ohio State, which has won or shared the last five Big Ten titles, welcomes back all but two starters on offense. 
The man under center for the last two of those championships is junior Terrelle Pryor, who is healthy after offseason knee surgery. Coach Jim Tressel, starting his 10th year on the Buckeyes sideline, said Pryor is getting better all the time. 
“His calmness and his com­mand have improved just in the course of these seven prac­tices,” he said. 
Kirk Ferentz, who led Iowa to an 11-2 mark a year ago, including a win over Georgia Tech in the Orange Bowl, is pleased with the progress his team has made during an unusually warm spring in the Midwest. 
“That’s the great thing about spring practice,” he said. “There’s not game-planning, there’s no pressure of trying to get prepared for a kickoff on Saturday. So it’s pure teaching, pure evaluation and you get to see how guys learn, how they respond, and how they’ve pro­gressed and grown, physically and mentally. I really enjoy this time of year.” 



Wednesday, April 14, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 15 
BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Linebacker Lounge beats Nothing But Air, 21-9 
By MATTHEW ROBISON Sports Writer  tions. “Our goal was to score five, a n d w e s u r p a s s e d t h a t , ”  S t u , D o u g , A l , P h i l a n d D o u g ’s P h o n e 2 1 , Ko a l a Yummies 10  emphatic, long distance fade-a w a y f r o m t h e c o r n e r b y Jensen with the fans chanti- Murren, just could not put it all together for a significant stretch in the game.  
Jones said.  In a lopsided affair between  ng, “End it.”  “Our mindset was to pass it  
T h e  L i n e b a c k e r  L o u n g e ,  t w o  v i c t i m s  o f  t h e  F i r s t  “We were like five chickens  o n  d o w n a n d g o  t o  t o w n , ”  
F r o m  t h e  o u t s e t ,  i t  consisting of David Brochu,  Amendment violation that is  i n  a  c o o p , ”  Ritchie said, ref- 
appeared  as  if Nothing But  S t e v e  C o l n i t i s ,  To m  censorship of  team  names,  McKinley said.  e r e n c i n g  t h e i r  
Air would be overmatched by  Timmermans, Jon Carpenter  Stu, Doug, Al, Phil and Doug’s  M c K i n l e y ,  p r e f e r e n c e  f o r  
t h e  h e i g h t a d v a n t a g e  a n d  and Dave Peloquin, proved  P h o n e u t i l i z e d  a  b a l a n c e d  t h e  s e l f -p r o - s h o t s  i n  t h e  
experience of the Linebacker Lounge. B u t a f t e r t h e u n d e r d o g scored the first basket of the  t h a t t h i s , i n d e e d , w a s n o t t hei r f i rst r ode o. Bu t t hey showed a youthful passion for the game.  offense and stingy defense to t h o r o u g h l y s u p p r e s s t h e Koala Yummies. Consisting of juniors Joseph  claimed “Mac Daddy,” played m o s t o f t h e g a m e h a m - “We were like fve chickens in a coop.”  paint. Ritchie attrib­uted the win to “a combination  
g a m e , L i n e b a c k e r L o u n g e l o o k e d l i k e i t w a s o n i t s heels. In the end, however,  “We were just trying to gain our chemistry,” Colnitis said. “ T h i s i s o n l y o u r s e c o n d  J e n s e n , G r a n t M c K i n l e y, Peter Ritchie, Steve Morris a n d A n d r e w Ta y l o r, t h e  p e r e d b y a n in jur ed knee. B u t t h a t d i d  Grant McKinley junior  of our fans and t h e L o r d J e s u s Christ.”  
the game ended decisively for  game this year.”  squad jumped out to an early  n o t  s t o p  h i m  Doug, Stu, Al,  
Linebacker Lounge  as  they  E v e n  t h o u g h  L i n e b a c k e r  6-1 l ead and  n ever  looked  from sprinting  Phil and Doug’s  
cruised to victory.  Lounge dominated the game,  back.  out on the fast  P h o n e  k n o w  
Consisting of sophomores  the team made  sure  Nothing  “We played like  a  devil  on  b r e a k  a n d  what they have  
Mitch Gainer, Kevin Mader,  But Air enjoyed the experi­ fire,” R it c h ie sai d. Ritc hie  making  a  diving  save  for  a  to do in order to keep their  
Aaron Patzwahl, Allan Jones  ence, and  even  posed for  a  r e f e r r e d  t o  h i m s e l f  a s  t h e  ball headed out of bounds.  winning ways alive.  
a n d  M e g h a n  M c K i n n e y,  picture after the game with  “Phoating Phenom,” for his  The Koala Yummies,  con- “We need  to  make it rain  
Nothing But Air showed noth­ their opponents.  t r a d e m a r k  d r i b b l e  d r i v e  sisting of fifth-year senior  a n d  b r i n g  t h e  p a i n , ”  
ing but heart the entire way.  “ We  g o t  t h e  w i n .  We ’ r e  down the land leading  to  a  a n d  g r a d u a t e  s t u d e n t s  McKinley said.  
They  came  in with humble  h a p p y, ”  B r o c h u  s a i d .  “ We  teardrop that floats  over  the  Jordan Delpalazio, Patrick  
expectations, and they  more  w a n t e d  t o  m a k e  s u r e  t h e y  outstretched defense.  O’Connell, Kevin Sommers,  Contact Matthew Robison at  
than exceeded those expecta­ had a good time as well.”  T he g am e e nded wit h  an  L u k e  G o l e s h  a n d  D a v e  mrobison@nd.edu  


NHL 
Theodore given high honor 
Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Va. — There’s nothing like juicy bulletin-board material to accompany the announcement of a starting goal­tender. 
Jose Theodore not only was for­mally anointed the No. 1 goalie for the Washington Capitals on Tuesday, he also proved he can give as good as he can get when it comes to taking a dig at the oppo­sition. 


The back-and-forth started when Montreal Canadiens center Tomas Plekanec was quoted in Tuesday’s edition of the Montreal newspaper La Presse, talking about the Capitals’ goaltender sit­uation. 
“It’s not as though we are fac­ing Brodeur or Miller,” Plekanec said, according to the paper. “They don’t have a dominant goaltender. When you look at the goaltending matchup in this series it favors our team. I just believe that our goaltending is more solid than theirs. I’m not saying their goalies are bad. I’m just saying our goalies are bet­ter.” 
After Washington’s practice Tuesday, Theodore was redy with a response. 
“Tomas who? Jagr?” Theodore said with a smirk. “Oh, Plekanec, OK. I thought you meant Jagr.” 
So while it’s clearly established that neither Martin Brodeur, Ryan Miller nor Jaromir Jagr will be on the ice when the top-seed­ed Capitals host the eighth-seed­ed Canadiens in Game 1 on Thursday, the ones who are tak­ing part already have some axes to grind. 
“The reason why we have the record we have is because of Jose,” Capitals defenseman Mike Green said. “He’s won us more than a handful of games this year just by himself. For (Plekanec) to say that is a little unnecessary.” 
The gibes quickly overshad­owed the confirmation that Theodore will indeed be patrolling the net. Washington coach Bruce Boudreau had been playing coy about his starting goaltender and had not planned to announce a starter until Thursday, but he said he was get­ting tired of being “bombarded” by the question. 
“There’s no need to ask the question anymore,” the coach said. 
The decision was no big sur­prise. Theodore ended the regu­lar season on a club-record 23­game streak without a regulation loss (20-0-3), but Boudreau has been known to do the unpre­dictable with his goalies. A year ago, he benched former league MVP Theodore after just one game in the playoffs and replaced him with playoff neophyte Semyon Varlamov, who anchored the Capitals until a Game 7 loss in the second round. 
Asked about Plekanec’s Brodeur-Miller comments, Boudreau made the case for Theodore. 
“I’ll take Jose’s record the last 23 games over those two guys,” the coach said. “The reason quite frankly that I wasn’t saying any­thing was just to keep everybody on their toes, but I told Jose last week and he knew he was going to be the starter and he’s earned it. 
“It’s quite a different situation than it was from this year to last year. He’s been our guy. What people don’t realize was last year, his 10 previous games before going into the playoffs weren’t anywhere near what his 10 previ­ous games are here, so there is no short leash. He’s the guy we’re going to go with and see how he goes.” 
Theodore has endured an emo­tional, tragic 12 months. Getting benched during the playoffs became trivial when he lost his 2­month-old son, who died in August from respiratory compli­cations following a premature birth. When Theodore returned for training camp, it was assumed he would be at best a veteran placeholder for the up-and-com­ing Varlamov. 
“A lot of people counted me out when the season started, for dif­ferent reasons,” Theodore said. “It was a big challenge for me to have a solid season.” 
But Varlamov spent much of the season injured, and Theodore showed down the stretch why the starting job should be his. 
“He did it in the face of a lot of adversity this year,” Boudreau said. “I give him full credit for everything he’s done.” 
The series will take Theodore back to Montreal, where he played parts of nine seasons and won the Hart and Vezina trophies in 2002. When he made a relief appearance there in February, he was serenaded derisively with chants of “Tay-Oh!” 

page 16 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 14, 2010 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Watt, Moros lead Irish in regular season fnale 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish are looking to rebound after last week’s two straight losses to No. 2 Ohio State and Louisville when they host Ball State this afternoon. 
The Cardinals (14-7) come into South Bend to wrap up the home portion of Notre Dame’s spring 

schedule. Despite “Even though they Keeton were the recent set-lost, I thought Casey able to pull out backs, the Irish victories for the 
and David fought
(11-11) enter the Irish. contest confident hard.” “Blas Moros having picked up played more some big wins aggressively,” 
Bobby Bayliss 
from freshman Bayliss said. 
Irish coach
Blas Moros and junior David Anderson in recent matches. 
“David Anderson has come on strong for us as the season has progressed,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “He has added good all-court skills and can finish at the net, something that was problematic for him as a fresh­man. He has a big first serve, penetrating ground strokes and counters better than he did even a year ago. More than anything he has a real presence on the court and great determination.” 
The Irish have faced some tough opponents and know that they have battle-tested players on the team. 
Sophomore Casey Watt at No. 1 singles leads the Irish this sea­son. 
Watt has been successful this season, but he has taken some tough losses at doubles, includ­ing one against Southern Methodist University. 
“Even though they lost, I thought Casey and David fought hard,” Bayliss said. “Casey had some match points, but had trouble finishing at the net.” 
In the loss to 
Louisvill e, 
Moros and 
sophomore Sam 
“He stayed up 
tight on the 
baseline and 
played a very gritty match. He is growing before our eyes and it is reward­ing to see. He served well at key times and did not back down under pressure.” 
The Irish are working on their doubles constantly to try and secure the doubles win more often to get the match rolling to a fast start. 
After wrapping up the home schedule today, the Irish will then head to Bayliss’ former school, Navy, to take on the Midshipmen Saturday. 
The Irish play Ball State Wednesday at 3:30 p.m. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 

SMC TENNIS 

Belles look to rebound against conference foe 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Coming off a shutout loss to national powerhouse Chicago Monday, the Belles will look to take their exposed weaknesses and turn them into strengths today against Albion. 
Saint Mary’s (8-5, 2-2 MIAA) has had trouble with Albion (9-6, 3-1) in the past, so today’s matchup will allow the Belles to avenge last year’s sweep and return to the form they exhibited early on in conference play. 
“Last year [Albion was] fourth in the conference and they beat us twice,” Belles coach Dave Campbell said. “But we had a close match with them the second time.” 
Close will not cut it this year. 
“They are a very good team, but we can beat them,” Campbell said. 
Albion is also coming off a loss, a road to defeat to conference foe Hope, so they will be looking to get back into tip-top shape as well. 
The loss to Chicago showed the Belles how they measure up against the stiffest competition in the MIAA and what they must do in order to beat the best. 
“We’ve raised our level a bit,” Campbell said. “We’re more aggressive in doubles and smarter in singles.” 
For better or for worse, Campbell said the Belles will not take any emotional baggage into the Albion match. What they will do is come in and play their game the best way they know how — an attacking style of play in doubles and precise play in singles. 
The importance of today’s match is two-fold for the Belles. Not only do they want to win to put them­selves in better position for the MIAA Tournament, but they also want to be able to take pride in the way they perform in the confer­ence. 
“[Today’s match is] important for the seeding of the tournament,” Campbell said. “We take pride in every conference match and we want to win every one.” 
With the right pieces in place, Saint Mary’s has the capability to make a move in the right direction in the MIAA. Campbell does not want his players to try to play out­side themselves, nor does he expect more out of his players than he knows they can deliver. But with what they have, he believes they can win. 
“My expectations are for us to play at the level we can play,” Campbell said. “If we do that, we can win. We expect to win.” 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
SMC GOLF 
Belles seek automatic bid 
By LUKE MANSOUR 
Sports Writer 
No. 5 Belles quest to repeat as conference champions will start anew Wednesday when they play the first of three MIAA qualifiers in Marshall, Mich. 
The Belles come in confident following two victories over conference rival Trine University over the past week­end, one at home and another in Angola, Ind. 
Junior Rosie O’Connor said she was satisfied with her team’s performance during the two dual meets and hopes the team’s success can continue into the first qualifier. 
“We are confident going into the MIAA qualifier,” O’Connor said. “We had two great rounds this weekend at South Bend Country Club and Zollner Golf Club, and everything we have been practicing is start­ing to come together on the course.” 
The Belles will again need to minimize mistakes if they hope to win an automatic berth for the NCAA Division III Tournament. 
Inconsistency has prevented the Belles from higher finishes in a few tournaments this year, including the Southwestern Invitational. To eliminate those mistakes, O’Connor said the team needs to stay “confident and focused on the course.” 
“We must go out and play our game one hole at a time,” she said. 
Saint Mary’s hopes once again to be one of the 11 team given an automatic bid to the Tournament, which occurs by virtue of winning the MIAA qualifying tournament. Because the Belles won the MIAA conference title during the fall season, they have the privilege of hosting the second and third qualifying rounds to be held on April 23 and 24 at the Medalist Golf Course 
“[The Medalist Golf Course] is a challenging course, but one that we are confident on and have played on many times,” O’Connor said. “It’s nice to know we have the next two rounds of qualifying at home. We know our home courses the best.” 
Although the Belles expect to win their qualifying tourna­ment, if they falter they can still qualify if they win pool B, which conference opponent Olivet University did to qualify after the Belles won the auto­matic berth last year. There are 10 additional individual qualifiers for the NCAA tour­nament. 
The Belles enter the first qualifier with a target on their backs, having won the confer­ence title in the fall and being ranked as high as No. 2 at that time. 
O’Connor, along with stand­outs sophomore Natalie Matuszak and junior Mary Kate Boyce, must put up a big performance in order for the Belles to get off to a good start. Belles coach Mark Hamilton stressed the performance of the back end of the lineup as well. 
“I look for whoever plays in those spots to come in with a good number,” Hamilton said. 
The Belles begin their jour­ney for automatic qualification to the NCAA Tournament Wednesday at noon at the Medalist Golf Course in Marshall, Mich. 
Contact Luke Mansour at lmansour@nd.edu 


Wednesday, April 14, 2010 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 17 page 18 The Observer . SPORTS Wednesday, April 14, 2010 
Stewart 
continued from page 20 
year at Notre Dame, there’s not even a question,” he said. 
All three of the fifth-years will vie for playing time this spring and throughout sum­mer and fall camp. Stewart seems to have a comfortable lead for the starting left guard spot, and Wenger’s previous starting experience at both center and guard should give him the chance to work his way into the rota­tion, starting or otherwise. 

And while most of Gallup’s past playing time has come on special teams, the fact that Kelly’s spread offense employs several multi-wide receiver sets should give him a shot to find a niche in the passing game. 
“They use a lot of wide receivers and [the offense] can use a lot of my strengths,” Gallup said. “We’ve got eight or nine guys that can bring something to the table, and everyone’s dif­ferent and has their strengths. Practice is really competitive, and we’re going to find out who thrives in those situations.” 
The competitive, fast-paced practices present a challenge for the Irish, but Wenger said it is one that will prepare them for Saturdays in the fall. 
“These practices are tough. Everyone’s moving around fast with very little break. The legs are hurting, you’re breathing heavy,” he said. “You pay the sacrifice in practice, games are going to be a lot easier. That’s the way I’m looking at it.” 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
Home 
continued from page 20 
Kubinski said. “We know the course inside and out.” 
The golfers will have one last chance to polish their play before competing in the Big East Championships in Florida. This could pay divi­dends for the Irish in the playoffs, as there are still minor problems that need to be addressed at the tourna­ment. Kubinski said the tal­ent is there, but it needs some prodding. 
“When we allow our natural ability [and] talent to come through, we’re a very good team,” Kubinski said. 
Once the golfers get the kinks out of their game, they should be more at ease on the golf course. 
“We need to be more relaxed and just play,” Kubinski said. “We need to be focused.” 
The final event of the regu­lar season begins Wednesday at 2:30 p.m. at Warren Golf Course. 
Contact Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 

you are not prepared for them.” 
This double-header marks Notre Dame’s first conference game to be played in the middle of the school week, which Ganeff said presents a new difficulty. Winning each of Wednesday’s games is crucial to the team’s primary seasonal goal of winning the Big East Tournament in the coming weeks. 
“I think the challenge is time management, not necessarily the game, but I think our team does a good job of focusing on the task at hand,” Ganeff said. “So for those six to eight hours when they are at the field, they are focused 100 percent of the time on dominating the opponent.” 



In practice this week, the Irish are focusing on how to prepare for the different types of offensive strategies the Hoyas could use by seeing their strategies demon­strated in game situations. 
“When we work on specific things, we try to focus on the type of line up we will be facing,” Ganeff said. “We try to incorpo­rate a lot of short game situa­tions if we know the opponent has a lot of left-handed slappers. We will work on outfield situa­tions if we know they have a team that can let the ball fly.” 
Both the Hoyas and the Irish are coming off of Big East wins. The Irish just finished a three-game sweep over South Florida at home, and the Hoyas recently defeated Pittsburgh. 
The games will take place at 4 
p.m. and 6 p.m. Wednesday at Notre Dame’s Melissa Cook Stadium. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
Hoyas 
continued from page 20 
Irish (26-6, 8-0) stay on top of their game to avoid a home upset. 
“Georgetown is solid,” Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. “They have good pitching and good hitting. They are a team that will absolutely beat you if 
Norton 
continued from page 20 
soreness during warm-ups, Johnson was a late scratch. In his second career start, Norton pitched well in four and one-third innings, giving up three earned runs on six hits and two walks. 
“Norton is changing speeds well and I really think that he just got tired,” Schrage said. 
The Irish jumped out to an early 2-0 lead against Chicago State with an RBI double from senior left fielder Ryan Connolly and an RBI single from senior center fielder Brayden Ashdown. 
Schrage said he was impressed with Ashdow, who went 2 for 5 with three RBI’s for the game. 
“Brayden is really coming on in the last few weeks,” Schrage said. “In the last two weeks he has gotten really hot and he looks comfortable in there.” 
Chicago State took the lead away from the Irish 3-2 in the top of the fifth inning with singles from junior second baseman Mike Carpen (1 RBI) and senior shortstop Austin McDowell (2 RBIs), but the inning was ended by an out­standing 4-6-3 double play. 
The Irish then retook the lead in the bottom of the fifth inning with a two-RBI double from Ashdown. 
Hudgins came on in relief for Norton and also went four and one-third innings, giving up only one earned run on four hits. 
“Hudgins is really keeping the ball down well. The slider was good,” Schrage said. 
The Irish would add two more runs in the sixth and seventh innings, which proved to be the difference in the game as Chicago State could only add one more run in the seventh. 
Schrage said he is worried about his team’s preparation for its weekend conference series against Seton Hall. 
“As a coach you rant and rave before the game about getting ready, and it is just human nature for them not to think that they are going to win the game because they are not very good,” he said. “There better be a sense of urgency this weekend because we have some work to do.” 
Notre Dame faces Seton Hall Friday at 6 p.m. in East Orange, N.J. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 




Wednesday, April 14, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 





JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Wednesday, April 14, 2010 page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Final Countdown 
Three ffth-years make the most of last spring 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Writer 
Chris Stewart is in the midst of his fifth spring with the Irish, and he’s the oldest guy on the team. But with a new coaching staff, a new scheme and a new practice attitude, there’s a learning curve for everyone — even the offensive guard who enrolled at Notre Dame in January 2006. 
Still, his perspective as someone who has been there before should be valuable to the Irish, whose spring roster includes five early enrollees and several young players battling for playing time under the new regime. 
“The biggest perspective [I can bring] is that it’s spring ball, a time to get better and a time to clean up some things,” Stewart said. “You’re always going to have pres­sure from the coaches ... but you have to keep in your mind that the season’s a little bit away. There’s time get comfortable, learn new things and adjust to what’s best for you so when the season does come, you can play your best.” 
Stewart and the other two fifth-year seniors — offensive lineman Dan Wenger and 


JULIE HERDER/The Observer Senior guard Chris Stewart prepares for a play during spring practice Monday. Stewart is one of three fifth-years who chose to close out their collegiate careers under Irish coach Brian Kelly. 
wide receiver Barry Gallup — will all serve as mentors of sorts this spring, despite going through adjustment periods of their own, Wenger said. 
“It’s my fourth spring, and it’s my last spring,” he said. “I’m embracing it no matter what. It’s my last time as a college player and I’m trying to make the best of it. Fourth spring, fifth-year guy — you try to help the younger guys out, help them through this transition process as much as possible.” 
Gallup said he knew imme­diately that he’d want to take advantage of his fifth-year option and talked to Irish coach Brian Kelly soon after he was hired. 
“I feel like if you have the opportunity to play another 
see STEWART/page 18 
MEN’S GOLF 
Irish wrap up season at home 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
In preparation of the upcoming Big East Championships, Notre Dame welcomes Detroit Mercy in the Battle at the Warren. The tournament is the final tune­up before the playoffs begin. 
The Irish have a final opportunity to work on the aspects of their game that need a boost. 
“I would like to see our players come out playing the game,” Irish coach Jim Kubinski said. “I think we’ve done too much trying this spring.” 
This final round of golf will be crucial for the Irish as the Big East Championships looms less than one week away. Notre Dame has not participated in a competitive golf tournament since its 12th place finish at the Spring Break Championship to conclude the month of March. 
Since the Irish will be host­ing the Battle at the Warren, they have the advantage of a 
c o m f o r t  l e v e l  w i t h  t h e  
course.  
“Playing  at  home is  nor - 

mally a big edge in golf,” 
see HOME/page 18 


ND SOFTBALL 

ND to battle Hoyas at home 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The No. 24 Irish welcome the Georgetown Hoyas for a double­header Wednesday for a mid­week conference tilt as they look to extend their win streak to seven games. 
“Georgetown will be a great opponent for us this week,” Irish assistant coach Kris Ganeff said. “They are new to the conference last year, but they play like a sea­soned team.” 
Entering only their second sea­son with a softball program, the Hoyas (15-20, 5-4 Big East) have struggled to eclipse the .500 mark, but their 15 total wins and five Big East conference victories over Pittsburgh, Connecticut and Syracuse necessitates that the 
see HOYAS/page 18 


TOM LA/The Observer Senior infielder Heather Johnson takes a cut during Notre Dame’s 2-0 victory over South Florida Sunday. 
BASEBALL 
Clutch hitting, strong pitching lead squad 
By JARED JEDICK 
Senior Sports Writer 
Notre Dame edged out a close 6-4 win against strug­gling Chicago State by riding quality pitching from fresh­man right -hander Adam Norton, sophomore right-hander Will Hudgins and senior left -hander David Mills on a night when the bats seemed to be a bit quiet. 
“I want to tip my cap to Norton, Hudgins and Mills, because they pitched really well for us today because our hitters were not very focused against their pitch­ers,” Irish coach Dave Schrage said. “We hit too many fly balls and we got away with this win. We need to be more focused at the plate.” 
Chicago State (1-23, 0-3 Great West) has only one win this season, and Schrage said the Irish (12­19, 2-7 Big East) were hop­ing for a more dominant result. 
“At this point I don’t know what to expect. I mean, it’s a win,” Schrage said. 
Norton got the start some­what unexpectedly as junior right-hander Cole Johnson was expected to return to the mound after suffering a shoulder injury three weeks ago. However, after feeling 
see NORTON/page 18 






