the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Panel discusses GLBT issues at ND 
Talks center on how to construct a more inclusive atmosphere 

By SARAH MERVOSH 
Assistant News Editor 
When Saint Mary’s junior Laurel Javors saw a comic implying violence towards the gay community in the Jan. 13 edition of The Observer, she thought of a friend. 
“I was in Florence last year, watching my friend Jeff wheeled away in a stretcher,” Javors said. “He was beaten to the point where he lost sight in his eye because we was holding his boyfriend’s hand. 
“These are the realities we face,” Javors, a member of Saint Mary’s Gay and Straight Alliance, said in a panel Thursday evening. 
In response to The Observer 
TOM YOUNG/The Observer 

Panel members listen to each other as they discuss instances of discrimination the have see PANEL/page 4 encountered at the University and ways to address the issues facing the GLBT community. 



AFTLS perform ‘Romeo and Juliet’ 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Actors from the London Stage (AFTLS) are reviving the British theatre tradition at Notre Dame during this week’s performances of William Shakespeare’s “Romeo and Juliet,” See Also which 
Scene reviews 
present the play in its AFTLS’s 
origi nal 

‘Romeo and 
version, at 

Juliet’
Washington Hall. page 10The star-crossed lovers of Verona have spurred an unprecedented cultural following that often inspires moderns twists on “Romeo and Juliet,” yet the AFTLS return the show to its Shakespearean roots. “I would love to see a tradi­tional version since I have never seen the play per­formed before,” freshman Olivia Lee said. 
see PLAY/page 3 




Campcaterstochildrenofcancerpatients 
By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
When one thinks of the victims of cancer one often thinks of those who struggle daily with the disease. But cancer takes more victims than just its medical patients; for every cancer victim has a family behind them and these people, par­ticularly children, need help as well. 
A group of Notre Dame students have been making sure children who have been affected by a parent who has cancer are not for­gotten and get the chance to still be kids despite the mature burden they have at home. 
Camp Kesem is a national student -run sleep -away camp that takes place the first week of August for kids ages 6 to 15 whose parents have died from or are cur­rently being treated for cancer. Although the camp is national and several col­leges across the country participate, each camp is 
see KESEM/page 6 


Lecture series focuses on changes in business 
Capitalism.” 
The series began Jan. 22 with a panel discussion titled “The Ascent of Money,” hosted by Scott Malpas, vice president and chief investment officer at the University of Notre Dame, and Professor Richard Mendenhall. It will conclude April 16 with a lecture by Catherine Mathis, senior vice president of Marketing and Communications for Standard & Poor’s. 
There will be a total of seven lectures, and if students attend all seven, they can receive one 
see MENDOZA/page 4

By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
Anticipating changes in the culture of the business world is a valuable skill in today’s fast-paced world, and to keep pace, the Mendoza School of Business is hosting a series of lectures throughout the spring semester titled “Ten Years Hence.” 
Mendoza has hosted a spring lecture series for the last nine years, and for the last six they have all held the common theme of “Ten Years Hence.” This year’s lecture series is focused on “The Future of 


GreeND to host ‘The Footprint of Food’ 
By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
As the world continues to search for solutions to global warming and alternative fuels, GreeND, Notre Dame’s environmental club, has planned an upcoming Green Summit, titled “The Footprint of Food” to help educate the South Bend community on the impact food has on the environment, in addition to a number of other events. 
“Food is a great topic because everyone eats. More importantly, food is central to many of the cur­rent environmental and energy con­cerns,” Colleen Kelly, senior and 
see GREEND/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Men’s and women’s basketball previews page 20  Recap of ‘Lost’ series page 12  Saint Mary’s Dance Marathon page 3  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Friday, January 29, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
Fair trade? 

Many students currently find themselves in the midst of job hunting or internship searching. This will inevitably turn to a dis­cussion about previous jobs and useful skills that were developed during these times of employ­ment. 
You want to talk about skills? Since I was 14, my jobs have ranged from working at a pet kennel, a country club, a bridal shop and my most recent foray at Reckers. 


Molly Madden
I’ve got skills alright. News 
If you ever feel the 

production
need to hear an 
editor

amusing workforce account just ask me to tell you one of my numerous stories spanning from my jobs over the past six years. The overlying principle I’ve learned? People on this planet are nuts. 
I found this out my first day of work at Petropolis Pet Hotel, or, as the advertise­ments said, the “Ritz Carlton” of the dog world. Two hours on the job I was asked to come to the help check-in a client. I go to reception and see what appeared to be an overgrown rat in a red cashmere sweater sitting by a hot-pink duffel with the name “OSCAR” embroidered on it. 
My manager asked me if I would mind assisting Oscar into her villa. Yes, you read that correctly, the female dog’s name was “Oscar.” Oh, and it turns out she wasn’t a rat but an expensive breed known as an Italian Greyhound. And that sweater of hers? That was her Tuesday sweater. Oscar’s owner, in all her plastic glory, insist­ed that Oscar got “chilly” if she wasn’t properly clothed at all times. 
Yeah, right. 

Then there was the time that I was bring­ing a lab named Charlie Bear to his owner at reception after an overnight stay. I hand­ed the leash over to his “mom” and expect­ed the socially acceptable “thank you,” and instead ended up being told by this woman that, “I kicked a man out today so that I could pick up my real man.” 
Poor, poor Charlie Bear. 

My three years at Petropolis helped me prepare for my time as a waitress at a local country club. Because it turns out crazy rich people also frequent country clubs. 
We have a very large and detailed menu that features wonderful salads, small plates and entrees — that no one orders. Sure, they’ll order something off the menu like a Chop Salad and then proceed to change everything in the salad; they substitute chicken for turkey, request all romaine let­tuce, no to bleu cheese but yes to feta and on and on and on. And to top it all off, we’re a no-tipping establishment. Awesome. 
And then there’s the bridal shop. It’s kind of like daycare except that instead of kids, its grown women throwing hissy fits over dresses rather than toys. After a year of helping pick out gowns, customize veils and discuss the ten different shades of white you can dye your shoes I have come to a conclusion — I’m eloping. 
So I might not have developed many skills that will be useful for my preferred job out of college, but the good news is that if I’m ever having difficulty finding employ­ment, I’m sure there’s a couple of psych wards that would love to hire me. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT IS YOUR FAVORITE PICK-UP LINE? 





Katie Ciresi  Patrick Gorman  Elizabeth Bonne  Mike Hannigan  Sarah Cole  
sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Le Mans  Morrissey  Le Mans  Carroll  Breen-Phillips  
“Do you have a  “I’m a gymnast.  “You’re so  “How much  “I lost my  
mirror in your  I’m flexible.”  sweet you put  does a polar  number. Can I  
pocket?  Hershey’s out of  bear weigh?  have yours?”  
Because I can  business.”  Enough to  
see myself in  break the ice.  
your pants.”  Hi, I’m Mike.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

GRACE KENESEY/The Observer McGlinn juniors Beth Nagel and Torie Roig sell tickets for Casino Night at South Dining Hall on Tuesday evening. Proceeds from the event will benefit St. Adalbert’s School in South Bend. Prizes at Casino Night include a Nintendo Wii, iPods and assorted gift certificates. 
OFFBEAT 
Argentinian president says to eat pork for better sex 
BUENOS AIRES — Argentina President Cristina Fernandez is trying to promote the swine indus­try in her country with a sexy, straightforward mes­sage — forget about Viagra, eat some pork. Argentines are reacting with surprise Thursday after their presi­dent not only said the meat is better than Viagra, but suggested that she has per­sonally proven it. 
She joked in a meeting with representatives of the swine industry Wednesday that “it was all good” after she enjoyed some pork meat with husband and for­mer president Nestor Kirchner. 
Video surfaces of man playing with chicken 
NEW YORK — New York City’s transit agency is investigating a video posted online that shows a man kissing and snuggling a live chicken aboard a subway. 
The subway rider who took the video said Thursday that it was one of those New York moments she felt compelled to record. 
Kylie Kaiser, a 27-year­old architect from Brooklyn, and two friends boarded the uptown No. 6 train at the 33rd Street station at around 7 p.m. Tuesday. 
“He was on his back, rolling from side to side, kissing, hugging and lifting the chicken up in the air,” she said. 
She said the man was oblivious to everything around him and didn’t respond to onlookers. 
“It was definitely an only­in-New-York situation,” said Kaiser, who moved to the city about three years ago from Murfreesboro, Tenn. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight SATURDAY SUNDAY 

IN BRIEF 
A short classical concert titled Bach’s Lunch: A Noontime Concert will take place today at 12:10 p.m. in the Penote Performers’ Hall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. The event is free but tickets are required. Call 574-631-2800 for reserva­tions. 
A lecture will be given today titled FTT Talks: Sterlin Harjo today from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Harjo, a director, will talk about his work. This is a free but ticketed event. Call 574-631-2800 for reser­vations. 
A film titled “End of Poverty?” will be shown Saturday at 6:30 p.m. in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for stu­dents, $5 for faculty, and $6 for general admission. Purchase tickets online at per­formingarts.nd.edu. 
McGlinn Casino Night will take place Saturday at 10 
p.m. at South Dining Hall. Tickets are $5 and can be pur­chased in advance at North or South Dining Hall or at the door. 
Paul Thornock will give an organ concert on Sunday at 5 
p.m. in the Reyes Organ and Choral Hall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $10 for faculty and $5 for astudents. Call 574­631-2800 for tickets. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
MONDAY TUESDAY 

Atlanta 51 / 33 Boston 23 / 7 Chicago 19 / 14 Denver 44 / 29 Houston 59 / 36 Los Angeles 66 / 46 Minneapolis 12 / -4 New York 28 / 15 Philadelphia 30 / 18 Phoenix 68 / 48 Seattle 54 / 45 St. Louis 22 / 19 Tampa 75 / 62 Washington 33 / 27 

Friday, January 29, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Dance Marathon hosts fundraisers 
Club aims to beat last year’s total with a number of charity events 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
After raising over $91,500 at Dance Marathon 2009, the Saint Mary ’s College Dance Marathon club continues to raise funds and awareness for Riley Children ’s Hospital senior Kelly Deranek, the event’s president, said. 
With a variety of events planned, the club hopes to raise funds to benefit the 

“Any amount of 
Hospital. “Any amount money that we raise of money that 
is money that the
we raise is 

Hospital didn’t have.” 
money that the Hospital didn ’t have, ” Kelly Deranek Deranek said. 
president
“Anything that 

Dance Marathon
we can give them is great. Of course we always love to raise more than we did last year, but we have no set goal.” 
The club hosted “Give Back Night” at Five Guys Burgers and Fries this past Wednesday. A portion of the proceeds from the event that were collected will be added to the grand total which will be announced at the Marathon on March 26 and 27. 
The club has several 
other events coming up within the next few weeks. Other “Give Back Nights” will be offered, as well as a sale of candy for Valentine’s Day. 

“We are going to be doing a sale for Valentine’s Day where we will be selling sweets that people can pur­chase and we ’ll deliver them,” Deranek said. 
The candy sale will begin on Feb. 8 and will continue through Feb. 12. 
Additionally, a Purse 
Party will be held on Feb. 12, where handbags and accessories will be avail­able for pur­chase. 
Another event that Dance Marathon will be hosting is 

Salon Night, which will coincide with a Fannie Mae Candy Sale for Easter on Feb. 22. 
The club has a variety of 

other events, including A Miss -A-Meal where stu ­dents at the College can give up a meal one night and allow the money that they would have spent on the meal to be donated to the Dance Marathon. 
A Charity Denim event and a babysitting night will be hosted as well. 
“[We will have] a babysit­ting night for Riley families in the area that come to 
our marathon, ” Deranek said. “We’re going to have a night where we volunteer and watch their kids so they can go out for the night. “ 
The club plans on hosting the actual the Dance Marathon towards the end the academic year. At the Marathon students come together from 8 p.m. to 8 
a.m. to raise awareness for the Hospital. 
“The purpose of Dance Marathon is to raise finan­cial and emotional aware­ness for the Children ’s Miracle Network but specif­ically at Riley’s Children’s Hospital in Indianapolis,” Deranek said. 
Forms are available on the Dance Marathon Web site and will be accepted through the event. 
“Everyone is encouraged, for all three campuses, ” Deranek said. “We’re going to be at Holy Cross some­time in the next few weeks collecting packets and pro­moting the event. They’ve had information at Notre Dame Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday nights to encourage Notre Dame stu­dents to come as well.” 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
Play 
continued from page 1 
Director of Audience Development Aaron Nichols described the AFTLS as truly unique. The program is in its 35th year and acts as “an actor-driven tour de force,” according to the company’s Web site. 
“The most exciting aspect is that these actors really get down to the meat of Shakespeare’s text,” Nichols said. “It is fascinating to see a show that has been done more elaborately cut down to its very soul.” 
The five actors to appear on stage hail from impressive backgrounds and boast résumés that include some of the most prestigious stages in London, Nichols said. These individuals are challenged to divide 20 to 30 parts from the Shakespearean plays and are considered experts on the texts. 
“I expect both a strong his­torical focus and an emphasis on good verse speaking,” Department of English research professor John Wilkinson said. 
Student interaction is an integral part of the company’s tour. 
“The classroom workshops are truly an original concept,” Nichols said. “The actors are in upwards to 30 to 35 class­rooms per week.” 
Wilkinson will host actress Jennifer Higham in a class­room workshop on Friday and was particularly excited about bringing this “particular tradi­tion of English acting” to his students in a personal form. 
“As for the performance, I am quite interested to see the nurse,” Wilkinson said. “She is a challenging character for a modern actor because she is simultaneously a warm and maternal figure, as well as strongly interested in Juliet’s marriage prospects, and also very filthy minded.” 
The objective of Shakespeare at Notre Dame is to embrace “humanist study and the per­forming arts in the exploration of drama in a Christian con­text,” as stated on the program Web site. The AFTLS is one branch of this mission to bring the study of Shakespeare to the University setting here in South Bend. 
A substantial audience is expected when this renowned play takes the stage of Washington Hall, Nichols said. 
“We are expecting large crowds because ‘Romeo and Juliet’ is one of Shakespeare’s most popular, albeit most trag­ic, romances,” he said. 
Though the plot of ‘Romeo and Juliet’ and their doomed romance is well known, this unique company should still bring added flair to the classic show. 
“I know what happens in the story,” freshman Adam Zebrowski said. “But I am still expecting to be entertained, especially by the more comedic parts with Benvolio and Mercutio.” 
“Romeo and Juliet” will be performed in Washington Hall at 7:30 p.m. tonight. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 29, 2010 
Panel 
continued from page 1 
comic, student government hosted “Where To Go From Here?: Moving Beyond Fruits and Vegetables,” and discussed how the Notre Dame communi­ty can create a more inclusive atmosphere, especially for gay, lesbian, bisexual and transgen­der (GLBT) students. 
Five panelists spoke about their reaction to the comic and offered suggestions for how the Notre Dame community can make progress in the achieving a “Spirit of Inclusion,” referring to the University’s 1997 formal statement. 
Dan Myers, Associate Dean of the College of Arts and Letters, said The Observer comic should be used as an opportunity for progress. 
“When something happens like this, like this cartoon being published, it’s natural and it’s very easy to get focused on the specific individuals who are involved,” Myers said. “That’s not where I want to focus.” 
Myers said it is more impor­tant to focus on changing the culture at Notre Dame, and he called upon students and facul­ty to hold themselves account­able. 
“When you first came to Notre Dame, you might have wondered how people were going to behave with respect to these issues,” he said. “The first time someone made one of these offensive jokes, I bet there was kind of an awkward pause while people figured out whether it as okay to laugh. 
“Those are the moments that define our culture,” Myers said. 
“I’m asking you … to chal­lenge yourself to step up and be someone who helps change this culture,” he said. “I know it’s intimidating as hell to do that stuff. I don’t blame people to being scared to do it. I’m scared to do it, but you can do it.” 
Senior Patrick Bears, a mem­ber of Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students, called upon both students and faculty to make a change. 
“I don’t go a week without hearing something odious described as gay or without someone calling someone else a [derogatory term] when they do something they don’t like,” he 
Mendoza 
continued from page 1 
academic credit. 
Professor James O’Rourke, director of the Eugene D. Fanning Center at Mendoza College, said he believes the “Ten Years Hence” theme holds especially important in today’s financial times. 
“I think it is important to not just study history and current events for our lessons, but to look forward in some struc­tured speculation to see what life will be like in 10 years time,” he said. 
O’Rourke said this approach of tackling future problems today is a very logical one in the business world. 
“Many of the issues such as water and oil are foreshadow­ing problems,” he said. “It’s entirely possible we may devise interventions for altering the outcomes.” 
O’Rourke also said the series will involve a number of events, ranging from a two-part discus­sion on PBS’s popular series “The Ascent of Money” to dis­cussions with noted leaders in said. 
But it’s about more than sim­ply changing the type of lan­guage used, Bears said. 
“It’s not just us to stop using ‘gay’ [...] What I want us to do is to become better students and better teachers,” he said. “I would like to see more students interested in queer material and I want to see more teachers offer queer material in their syllabi.” 
Javors said the Notre Dame community should move for­ward by engaging mature dis­cussions about sexuality as a way of life. 
“God created my sexuality, regardless of what any religious teaching otherwise said. That is what I hold to be true,” she said. “I feel like the more peo­ple get to know their peers, whether they be heterosexual or homosexual, they will see that exact same thing. 
“Sexuality isn’t what someone does in bed, but it’s what they live out to the world everyday,” Javors said. “I challenge both the Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame’s campuses to really engage in a mature and intel­lectual way and not just hide behind the teachings of [the Bible.]” 
Myers use his 13-year-old son as an example of what it takes for individuals to help change the culture. He said he heard his son on the phone with a friend defending homosexuality. 
“You can hardly imagine a more socially intimidating place in life than junior high. [But my son said,] ‘Dude, you are being so homophobic right now. You can’t just call people ‘gay’ as a put down,’” Myers said. 
“And then he said, ‘Seriously I’m going to hang up on you if you don’t stop being so homo­phobic,’” he said. “Saying, ‘Dude that is so not cool.’ That, I’m telling you, is a hell of a weapon. 
“Now if he can do it, you can do it. I can do it. We all can,” Myers said. 
Other panelists included Sr. Sue Dunn, co-president of the Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students, and Maureen Lafferty, University Counseling Center counselor and psycholo­gist and member of the Core Council. 


Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
the business community such as John Mackay, chairman and CEO of Whole Foods, who will speak March 26 on the subject of “Conscious Capitalism.” 
“We look for people with a connection to Notre Dame who feel that this is part of their pro bono mission,” O’Rourke said. 
While the theme “Ten Years Hence” has run for the past six years, O’Rourke feels that this years focus, “The Future of Capitalism,” is an especially topical subject. 
“This is really a response to the chaos we’ve seen in mar­kets and the anxiety we’ve all felt in the last 24 months as this recession has dragged on,” he said. 
In addition to the discussions on Jan. 22, March 26 and April 16, Mendoza will host the sec­ond part of “The Ascent of Money” panel on Feb. 5; Fred Dust, partner and practice lead for IDEO, on Feb. 12; Harris Diamond, CEO of Weber Shandwick, on Feb. 26; and Hazel Henderson, founder of Ethical Markets Media, on March 19. 
Contact Sam Stryker at sstryke1@nd.edu 


World & Nation 
Friday, January 29, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Mayor to defend gay marriage 
MEXICO CITY — Mexico City’s mayor says he will defend the capital’s gay-marriage law and insists the ordinance will take effect in March despite an appeal by federal prosecutors. 
Mayor Marcelo Ebrard says the federal appeal on constitutional grounds is wrong. He says nothing in Mexico’s con­stitution prohibits same-sex marriage or adoption by gay couples. 
The city’s legal adviser, Leticia Bonifaz, said Thursday the first gay marriages will be performed in early May while the Supreme Court hears the case. 
The federal Attorney General’s Office said Wednesday it filed a challenge with the Supreme Court arguing the law vio­lates constitutional provisions on the family and the protection of children. 
The law is a first for Latin America 
Sri Lankan president seeks harmony 
COLOMBO — Sri Lankan President Mahinda Rajapaksa pledged to seek rec­onciliation with minority Tamils after his sweeping re-election, but did not indi­cate how he plans to deal with their demands for greater rights. 
Critics said this week ’s balloting showed the country’s ethnic divisions that fueled decades of war were again near a breaking point, with many minorities apparently voting for the 
opposition or staying away from the polls. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Official opposition to 9/11 trials 
NEW YORK— Opposition to the govern­ment’s plans to hold the Sept. 11 terrorist trial in New York City intensified Thursday, one day after Mayor Michael Bloomberg revealed he had changed his mind and now hoped the trial would be held elsewhere. 
Rep. Peter King, R-N.Y., said he has intro­duced a bill that would prohibit the use of Justice Department funds to try Guantanamo detainees in federal civilian courts. Hours later, New York Gov. David Paterson said he wants discussion with federal officials on the issue of venue. 
Author J.D. Salinger dies at 91 
NEW YORK — J.D. Salinger, the leg­endary author, youth hero and fugitive from fame whose “The Catcher in the Rye” shocked and inspired a world he increas­ingly shunned, has died. He was 91. 
Salinger died of natural causes at his home on Wednesday, the author’s son, actor Matt Salinger, said in a statement from Salinger’s longtime literary represen­tative, Harold Ober Associates, Inc. He had lived for decades in self-imposed isolation in a small, remote house in Cornish, N.H. 
“The Catcher in the Rye,” with its immortal teenage protagonist, the twisted, rebellious Holden Caulfield, came out in 1951, a time of anxious, Cold War con­formity and the dawn of modern adoles­cence. The Book-of-the-Month Club, which made “Catcher” a featured selection, advised that for “anyone who has ever brought up a son” the novel will be “a source of wonder and delight — and con­cern.” 
LOCAL NEWS 

Court to rule on legal mother 
INDIANAPOLIS — Infant R’s birth certificate lists his father’s name. But the space for his mother’s name is blank, and will remain so until the Indiana Court of Appeals decides who his legal mother is. 
The 11-month-old boy referred to as Infant R in court documents was conceived by in vitro fertiliza­tion. His genetic parents are a northern Indiana married couple who donated the sperm and egg. His birth mother is the wife’s sister, who volun­teered to carry the baby. 
The couple — known as T.G. and V.G. in court records — then petitioned Porter County Circuit Court to have the genetic mother’s name on the child’s birth certificate. 
Roeder admits to church slaying 
Trial continues in Wichita for murder of prominent abortion provider Dr. George Tiller 
Associated Press 
WICHITA — The judge in the trial of a man accused of murdering an abortion doctor dealt the defense a major setback Thursday, ruling that the jury cannot consider a lesser charge of manslaughter. 
The ruling came hours after Scott Roeder took the stand in his own defense and admitted killing Dr. George Tiller, saying he acted to save the lives of unborn children. 
Roeder’s attorneys had hoped to win a lesser con­viction of voluntary manslaughter, which requires them to show their client had an unreasonable but honest belief that dead­ly force was justified. The charge carries a consider­ably lighter sentence than murder. 
Roeder testified that he considered elaborate schemes to stop the doctor, including chopping off his hands, crashing a car into him or sneaking into his home to kill him. 
But in the end, Roeder told jurors, the easiest way was to walk into Tiller’s church, put a gun to the man’s forehead and pull the trigger. 
Testifying as the lone defense witness, Roeder a single shot before fleeing. carry out his intention to area. The weapon has not calmly explained what he After Roeder’s testimony, (kill) Dr. Tiller.” been recovered. admitted publicly months District Judge Warren In a November interview Prosecutors were careful ago — that he killed Tiller Wilbert ruled that the jury with The Associated Press, during the first few days of to save unborn children. would not be permitted to Roeder publicly confessed testimony to avoid the sub­
“Those children were in consider the manslaughter to shooting Tiller, who was ject of abortion and to focus immediate danger if some-charge because abortion, one of the few doctors in on the specifics of the one did not stop George including late-term abor-the country who performed shooting. The judge said he Tiller,” Roeder said as the tion, is legal in Kansas and late-term abortions. did not want the trial to jury watched attentively because Tiller did not pose Roeder, 51, of Kansas become a debate on abor­but without a hint of sur-an imminent threat. City, Mo., said he consid-tion, but he said he would prise. “There is no immediate ered other ways of killing give Roeder a great deal of 
“They were going to con-danger in the back of a Tiller, including driving his “latitude” when discussing tinue to die,” he said. “The church,” the judge said. He car into Tiller’s or shooting his beliefs because they babies were going to con-also ruled out a second-him with a shotgun. But he were integral to his tinue to die.” degree murder conviction, said he was concerned defense. 
Roeder has pleaded not which does not involve pre-those approaches could Throughout his question-guilty to murder in the meditation, because it was hurt others. ing, Roeder appeared calm attack at the Wichita clear Roeder planned the “I did what I thought was and collected, waiting qui­church where Tiller was an killing. needed to be done to pro-etly each time prosecutors usher. Witnesses have “It would be hard for a tect the children,” Roeder objected to something he described how Roeder reasonable fact-finder to said. “I shot him.” said about medical proce­walked into the building’s find anything other than He testified that he dures or late-term abor­foyer on May 31 shortly the defendant formulating wrapped the .22-caliber tions, which the judge for-after the service started, his belief and then planning handgun in a piece of cloth bade him from testifying approached Tiller and fired on multiple occasions ... to and buried it in a rural about. 

GREAT BRITAIN 
University denied access to climate data 
plaints about the university from David Climate skeptics — including 
Associated Press 
Holland, a retired engineer, in 2007 to Republican lawmakers in the U.S. — 
LONDON — The university at the cen-2008, but it has only recently come to claimed that the e-mails showed scien­ter of a climate change dispute over light that his requests for data were tists secretly manipulated climate data stolen e-mails broke freedom of infor-ignored. and suppressed contrary views about mation laws by refusing to handle pub-“The e-mails which are now public climate change. lic requests for climate data, Britain’s reveal that Mr. Holland’s requests under One of the e-mails disparaged climate data-protection watchdog said the Freedom of Information Act were skeptics, and a scientist said “the last Thursday. not dealt with as they should have been thing I need is news articles claiming to 
A cache of e-mail exchanges between under the legislation,” it said in a state-question temperature increases.” leading climate scientists that were ment. Another complained about “getting stolen from the University of East The thousands of leaked e-mails — hassled by a couple of people” to release Anglia’s climate research unit and made public on the Internet just before temperature data that suggests uncer­recently made public show that the the U.N. summit on global warming in tainties about climate change. “Don’t institution ignored at least one request Copenhagen in December — sparked an any of you three tell anybody that the from the public for data, the international debate over whether sci-U.K. has a Freedom of Information Act,” Information Commissioner’s Office said. entists had exaggerated the case for Phil Jones, the director of climate 
The watchdog said it received com-man-made climate change. research unit, wrote in one e-mail. 

page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, January 29, 2010 
Kesem 
continued from page 1 
unique to a specific universi­ty. Camp Kesem Notre Dame is completely run, funded and organized by Notre Dame student volunteers. 
“Our mission at Camp Kesem is two-fold,” senior Emily Stewart, the co-chair of the camp, said. “We pro­
vide an expe­rience for kids who are deal­ing with the stress of can­cer and it’s an awesome way for Notre Dame stu ­dents to touch these kids in a very real and personal way.” 
Notre Dame began partici­pating in Camp Kesem in 2002 and since then the 
camp, which is free of charge, has been very popu­lar with the 60 campers that come every summer and the student counselors alike. 
“Once you do it as a coun­selor you get addicted,” jun­ior Rani Gallardo, the camp’s programming direc­tor, said. “I’ve never heard 
of a student just doing it once; all of counselors come back again and again.” 
Volunteering as a coun ­selor at Camp Kesem is more their responsibilities.” 
The focus of the week is for the kids to have fun and complete activities such as sports, arts and crafts, drama and teambuilding exercises. 
“Teambuilding is an impor­tant exercise because it allows the kids to know that they can trust one another as well as us,” Gallardo said. 
The camp is designed so the kids don’t have to talk about cancer related issues if they don ’t want to, but they know that all of their fellow campers are going through a similar situation, which provides comfort. 
“A little part of the day is when the kids journal and reflect on the day’s experi­ences,” Dorociak said. “They can open up and share if they want to; it’s about heal­ing and knowing that they aren’t alone.” 
Gallrado believes what sets Camp Kesem apart is that it is primarily a summer camp, but it is one that is for a group of children often lost in the shuffle. 
“The kids really need this,” she said. “Camp Kesem is very unique because it offers kids with these specific backgrounds to come togeth­er in this safe environment; everyone there can sympa­thize with one another because they all understand what one another is going through.” 


Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 
GreeND 
continued from page 1 
GreeND president, said. 
Kelly said this year’s summit, which will be held on Feb. 22, has a different structure than in past years because participants will rotate through tables on four dif­ferent topics, including climate change and sustainable seafood. The leaders of the summit are also collaborating with Food Services, which stresses sustainability as part of its mission. 
“Through collaboration with Food Services, this event will have both a Notre Dame and global focus,” Kelly said. “I imagine that the success of past Green Summits will continue with this year’s Summit, as this event is more interactive, creative and relevant.” 
The summit is made possible due to the collaboration of the Office of Sustainability, GreeND, ND for Animals, GlutenFreeND, Student Government and Students for Environmental Action. Kelly said this broad collection of groups allows the message of sustainabili­ty to spread to many different stu­dents and has contributed greatly to the club’s success. 
In addition to educating Notre Dame about food sustainability, GreeND also runs two environ­mental education programs for local elementary school students to further their mission of education, outreach and leadership develop­ment, Kelly said. 
Last semester, GreeND partici­pated in the first Lugar Collegiate Energy Summit, which focused on educating others about energy and sustainability. In response to the summit, GreeND created an edu­cational program in a fourth grade class at St. Adalbert’s School. 
According to Kelly, GreeND members teach an environmental or energy-related lesson to the stu­dents and share a book or activity with the students after each les­son. 
than directing kids in activi­ties; counselors assume a whole new rage of responsi­bilities — the greatest of which is creating a relaxed and stable environment for children coming from very different home lives. 
“Being a counselor is a hybrid of having fun and being a role model,” Stewart said. “Having us as role models, people who love to play and have fun, shows the 

“We provide an experience for kids who are dealing with the stress of cancer and it’s an awesome way for Notre Dame students to touch these kids in a very real and personal way.” 
Emily Stewart co-chair Camp Kesem 
campers an adult figure who repre ­
s e n t s  a  
b r e a k  i n  
what  can be  

a very sad life.” 
Stewart said many of the campers have to take 
on adult roles in their homes because of their par ­ents ’ daily dealings with the 
effects of the disease. She described one 10 -year-old camper who was responsible for doing all of her family’s laundry because her mother was constantly too sick from treatments and her father was always tending to her bedside. 
“These kids have atypical childhoods, ” junior Katie Dorociak, who is in charge of student support for Camp Kesem, said. “This week is a chance for them to let go of 
“The purpose of the education program is to energize elementary students about science and the environment,” senior Alice Griesemer, who is in charge of the education program, said. “We want them to understand impor­tant scientific concepts that are part of the Indiana educational standards and connect them to environmental concepts that will enable them to be better stewards of the earth.” 
GreeND also sponsors an after-school environmental education program for young students. 
In addition to the summit and education programs, the club’s Green Fashion Show, taking place on April 23, will be bigger and bet­ter than last year’s show, accord­ing to Griesemer. 
“The location has changed from the LaFortune Ballroom to Legends which more than doubles our capacity,” Griesemer said. 
Griesemer also said, in addition to being green, all the outfits will follow a theme that moves through all 24 hours of the day, “from the pale colors of sunrise to the deep tones of night.” 
According to Griesemer, most pieces used in the show are found at secondhand shops or designed by students using recycled materi­als in order to conserve the energy used to assemble, package and ship new items of clothing. 
“The main purpose of the event is to show students that it is possi­ble to be fashionable and trendy while still choosing environmental­ly friendly products,” Griesemer said. 
GreeND will also run a simula­tion of COP15, the climate talks in Copenhagen, in March. The event will be similar to a combination of a Hunger Dinner and Model UN, according to Griesemer. 
“It is a great opportunity to learn about the difficulties diplomats faced in brokering a deal and to understand the outcome of the actual meeting,” Griesemer said. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at 
kdurbin@nd.edu 
The Observer 
Business

Friday, January 29, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Microsoft earnings up 60 percent 
REDMOND, Wash. — Microsoft Corp. said Thursday that earnings in the most recent quarter jumped 60 percent, helped by a rebound in personal computer sales. 
The PC industry bounced back during the 2009 holiday shopping season after one of its roughest years to date. Microsoft’s earnings are closely tied to computer sales because its two most profitable divisions make the Windows operating system and Office business software. 
Microsoft said its net income for the fiscal second quarter that ended Dec. 31 rose to $6.7 billion, or 74 cents per share, compared with $4.2 billion, or 47 cents per share, in the year-ago period. Revenue increased 14 per­cent to $19 billion. 
The latest version of Windows, called Windows 7, was released during the quarter. Revenue from the Windows business jumped 70 percent. 
Eroding town appeals lawsuit dismissal 
ANCHORAGE — One of Alaska’s most eroded villages wants to revive a lawsuit that claims greenhouse gasses from oil, power and coal companies are to blame for the climate change endangering the tiny community. 
The city of Kivalina and a federally recog­nized tribe, the Alaska Native village of Kivalina, filed the case in federal court in San Francisco in 2008, but it was dismissed in October. Now they’re appealing to the 9th 
U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals, with their opening brief due March 11. 
Oil giants Exxon Mobil Corp. and BP PLC are among two dozen defendants named in the lawsuit. Representatives for the two companies declined to comment Thursday. 
“These are matters for the courts,” said Rob Young, an Exxon spokesman. “We sup­ported the original decision.” 
Kivalina’s attorney, Matt Pawa of subur­ban Boston, said the plaintiffs want mone­tary damages to help with the estimated $400 million cost to relocate the northwest Alaska village. Residents have chosen a relocation site, an area known as Kiniktuuraq, about two miles southeast of the current location. 
Gas pedals warrant recall 
Toyota, world’slargestautomaker,recalls andstopsproducing millions oftop-sellingvehicles 
Associated Press 
DETROIT — Toyota has begun shipping parts to fix the faulty gas pedals that led to a still-expanding recall and an unprecedented deci­sion to stop selling and building some of its top-sell­ing models, but it still could not say Thursday when mil­lions of its drivers would get their cars fixed. 
The world’s largest automaker, bleeding mil­lions of dollars a day in lost sales, also declined to say where the parts are going — to plants so production can start again or to dealers so they can start fixing cars sit­ting in their showrooms or already on the road. 
Amid the uncertainty, the recall grew wider. Toyota expanded the recall beyond an initial 2.3 million vehicles and said it would recall an untold number in Europe and about 75,000 in China because of bad gas pedals that can become stuck. 
The recall even spread beyond Toyota. Ford Motor Co. stopped production of some full-sized commercial vehicles built by a Chinese joint venture because they have accelerators built by the same parts supplier as in the Toyota recall. 
Separately, Toyota recalled 1.1 million more cars and trucks, said ness and scope of Toyota’s cials met with Toyota repre­vehicles this week because spokesman Brian Lyons. recent recall announce-sentatives to discuss the fix of floor mats that can bend But there was no estimate ments,” said House Energy on Thursday, but no details and hold down the gas. for how long it would be and Commerce Committee were announced. 
The gas pedal system until customers can get their Chairman Henry Waxman, The automaker does not recall includes 2009-2010 cars fixed. The parts are D-Calif. In a statement, need regulatory approval to RAV4, the 2009-2010 being made at CTS plants, Toyota pledged its “full make repairs or replace-Corolla, the 2009-2010 but Toyota has not said cooperation” with the com-ments, but company officials Matrix, the 2005-2010 where they’re going within mittee. do not want to proceed with Avalon, the 2007-2010 its system of plants and The episode has tarnished a fix if the government has Camry, the 2010 Highlander, dealers. Toyota’s once-sterling image concerns, said people famil­the 2007-2010 Tundra and “We’re well past the root of reliability. Experts say the iar with the decisions who the 2008-2010 Sequoia. cause identification, and longer it goes on, the more requested anonymity 
Toyota said the maker of we’re well past what needs Toyota’s competitors will because the meeting was the faulty gas pedal systems, to be done to change the benefit. private. CTS Corp. of Elkhart, Ind., pedal assembly itself,” Lyons Transportation Secretary Asked whether Americans was cranking out replace-said. Ray LaHood said he had no should continue to drive the ments at three factories, and House lawmakers, mean-details of how the problems recalled vehicles, LaHood that some of them already while, said they intend to would be fixed but said he said he would “encourage been shipped to Toyota. hold a Feb. 25 hearing to had “no criticism of Toyota them to take their car to the 
At the same time, Toyota review the complaints of on this. They followed the Toyota dealer. That’s what engineers are working with sudden unintended acceler-law and they’re doing what we’re telling people to do. CTS to develop ways to ation in Toyota vehicles. they’re supposed to do.” That’s what Toyota is telling repair, rather than replace, “Like many consumers, I am National Highway Traffic people to do. That’s the the pedal systems in existing concerned by the serious-Safety Administration offi-safest thing to do.” 

Pa. hires inspectors for wells 
dards for well cement and pipes, and Water Action’s Pennsylvania chapter, 
Associated Press 
require drilling companies to restore said more staff is also needed for the 
HARRISBURG — Pennsylvania is tak-water supplies they pollute. department’s other bureaus, such as its ing new steps to ensure public safety The rules were available on the Web water-quality division. amid a rush to drill into what geologists site of the Department of Environmental “One of our concerns is that a lot of believe could become the nation’s Protection, which is accepting public the impact from the drilling is found in largest natural gas field, Gov. Ed Rendell comments on them for 30 days before it our rivers and streams and our drinking said Thursday. plans to submit them to a rule making water,” Arnowitt said. 
The state plans to hire more inspec-board. In the last three years, dozens of gas tors to monitor a growing number of An industry group, the Marcellus companies have flocked to Pennsylvania well sites and is writing tougher rules to Shale Coalition, said in a statement that in hopes of tapping into the huge prevent gas from leaking into nearby it supports the state’s moves, as did sev-Marcellus Shale gas formation which homes and water wells, Rendell said. eral environmental groups that say the lies beneath much of Pennsylvania. 
He called them “decisive, progressive drilling could put the environment and All told, the department has issued protections for the people of public health at risk without more pro-more than 2,500 drilling permits since Pennsylvania.” tection. the beginning of 2005, when the current 
Among other things, 68 new well However, Erika Staaf of wave of activity on the gas field began. inspectors would be hired to join the PennEnvironment pointed out that the Thousands more could be issued this more than 100 already on staff, while proposed rules were drafted without the year. Meanwhile, the industry has the proposed new rules would lower the public’s input. drilled or is drilling more than 1,000 maximum well pressures, raise stan-Myron Arnowitt, director of Clean wells. 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 8 Friday, Januray 29, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
The Independent, Daily Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Mary Jesse 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Joseph McMahon Douglas Farmer Molly Madden Allan Joseph Graphics Megan Finneran Blair Chemidlin Viewpoint Scene Michelle Maitz Adriana Pratt 
‘Auf wiedersehen’ Innsbruck 


Last week the University made a difficult and dismaying decision to put an end to one of Notre Dame’s storied tra­ditions: its first study abroad program, the Innsbruck pro­gram, was canceled after more than 45 years. 
Anytime the University ends a service or program pro­vided to its students, the student body should 
be saddened by the loss. In this case, those who know the Innsbruck program — espe­cially those who’ve studied there — have expressed their extreme disappointment. 
They’ve said that the program, since its inception, has provided a cultural immersion and German language experience for over 
1,400 Notre Dame students that is likely not replicable anywhere else. 
Admittedly, the University administration and the Office of International Studies found themselves in a tough posi­tion; just two students had enrolled in the upcoming year­long program, and nine more in the spring semester option. Sustaining a program where most students take courses taught by professors on Notre Dame’s payroll is not viable when just two students are in the classroom. 
But the administration should not think that the hole left 
It is just a shirt, just an orange shirt. But I have to admit it is hard for me to wear, and not just because orange is not my color. Suddenly when I wear that shirt on campus it is as though I am wearing a target, and peo­ple can say whatever they want to me or about me for wearing the shirt. But I make it a point to wear the shirt to show support; support for a group that is usually dis­criminated against and sometimes ignored (I will not go into which is worse). I want to support people on campus who have had the unfortunate experience of coming out at a place like Notre Dame, a place that is not known for welcoming those in the GLBTQ community, even if it does have a “Spirit of Inclusion.” It is only once a semester, but it is still important to me that I join with those brave enough to face the comments that orange shirt can bring. 
People have a variety of reactions. “Couldn’t they have found a better phrase?” “I would never wear that shirt,” “It’s NOT fine by me” and even “Go to hell.” Yes: “Go to hell!” 
Really? I was amused by the “Obama? Fine by me.” shirts. I really enjoyed the “Dumbeldore? Fine by me.” shirts, but “Gay? Go to hell?” 
Thank you. Thank you Notre Dame students for demon­
ple succeeding in the economy: Wall Street Bankers. He claims that he just wants “the people’s money back,” but the fact of the matter is that the banks, by and large, have paid back the money with interest that some of them were forced by the government to take in the first place. Even Obama supporter Warren Buffet admits that the government has made money off the banks. 
As with all taxes, the government will take money out of the marketplace and redistribute it in a way that will not help the economy recover. The institutions that have not paid back the government are the auto companies and FannieMae and FreddieMac, which are the quasi-
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Art enables us to find ourselves and lose ourselves at the same time.” 
Thomas Merton 
U.S. religious author 
by one program might be filled by another — just as it would be absurd to say the Toledo program might replace Chile, or Australia the London program, the Berlin pro­gram, while an attractive option for some, cannot replace the experience provided in Innsbruck. 
One administrator told The Observer that the 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The other shirt 
Berlin program was “more elite” and “more demanding.” For some students, the academic experience and challenging language require­ments in Berlin may be a better fit, but for many of the students who might have studied in Innsbruck — many sophomores, some with just two semesters worth of German — Berlin will 
not be a reasonable option. 
While the University’s decision is unlikely to be reversed, administrators must now determine why the Innsbruck program failed to meet enrollment expectations — beyond those reasons already given, including that more study abroad options have led to lower enrollment in Innsbruck. They then must use this information to prevent the closure of future study abroad programs. The cancellation of another study abroad program is a loss students should not have to endure. 
strating how ridiculously hard it is for GLBTQ people everyday, all of the time. Thank you for reminding me that this campus does not have the “Spirit of Inclusion” that it claims. 
This is the obvious time to go off on a rant about how hateful and disrespectful it is to wear a shirt that tells someone to go to hell, and how absurd it would be if I wore a shirt that said “Catholic? (or male?) Go to hell.” I am simply here to say that I wore that shirt and I am glad that I did. And I am sorry that I had to be in class Wednesday at noon instead of standing next to those who protested. But I am the most sorry that we scare you so much that you feel like you have to tell us to go to hell. 
We are trying to express love and support — not hate, so I will not return hate with hate but I will say that I am sorry that we scare you and I hope that you can find some sort of comfort in that “Spirit of Inclusion” here at Notre Dame. 
Megan Trout 
graduate student off campus Jan. 28 
Obama’s enemy: People who succeed 
President Obama, in his attempt to appear as a pop-governmental institutions that started this recession by ulist, has called for a tax on who seem to be the only peo-giving out loans to unqualified borrowers at the govern­
ment's behest. 
Instead of continuing his policies of wealth redistribu­tion that have failed throughout history and the past year, the president should focus on allowing the market­place, not the government that he admits the people don’t trust, to guide the nation to recovery, as it did in the 1980s. 
Michael Gardella 
freshman Knott Hall Jan. 28 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“That man is the richest whose pleasures are the cheapest.” 
Henry David Thoreau 
U.S. author 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Friday, January 29, 2010 page 9 
McKenna campaign pilfers alumni data 
The publication of this column specifi­cally on this Friday was set merely by chance since it was scheduled by an edi­tor at The Observer, in part, as a small component on a master semester sched­ule for all colum­nists. It is the first of my long-standing Friday columns which just so hap­pens to coincide on the weekend before Notre Dame alumnus and Illinois Republican 

Gary Caruso 
Gubernatorial candi­date Andy Capitol McKenna’s primary Comments election next Tuesday. So while the timing of this col­umn may appear calculated, it is the first regularly scheduled opportunity to con­vey an experience that began while The Observer was on hiatus. 
Direct e-mail solicitations on behalf of the McKenna/Murphy candidates began several months ago from a Notre Dame classmate of McKenna. Last fall, I myste­riously received “McKenna for Illinois” solicitations as part of their e-mail list server. To my astonishment, the cam­paign was using an e-mail address listed only with the Notre Dame Alumni Association … and only temporarily for two weeks while moving. 
The campaign began with an innocent “fellow classmate” endorsement announcing that McKenna had become a candidate and noted reasons why class­mates should provide support to him. For months now, I have been bombarded with e-mails asking for donations, reporting on McKenna’s plans and surges in the polls. I’ve been wished a “Happy New Years” (sic) — hopefully referring to both the primary and elections cycles as “years” rather than what I suspect is sim­ply a sloppy misspelling. I also was made aware of newspaper endorsements and was even asked to participate in the Illinois Republican primary’s early voting process a few Mondays ago, although I do not believe that as a Democrat, I can par­ticipate in their party’s voting process. But then again, it is Illinois. 
Therefore, the breach of ethics tale within this column is not an attempt to create an “October surprise,” an election term coined in reference to last-minute revelations the weekend before an elec­tion — the two most recent and notable affected each of George W. Bush’s presi­dential elections. In Bush’s first run for the presidency, it was discovered that records in Maine indicated that Bush had a driving under the influence or DUI charge. On the weekend before Bush’s reelection, Osama bin Laden released a recording criticizing both Bush and Democratic presidential nominee John Kerry. In each case, though one was posi­tive news and the other negative news, Bush weathered those surprises. 
Let’s face it, McKenna family members have been elected Notre Dame student body presidents and sat at the highest levels of the University’s Board of Trustees. Their dedication to Our Lady’s campus is beyond reproach. But the inap­propriate mining of Notre Dame alumni data by other Domers in support of McKenna is a breach of political ethics inexcusable for any Notre Dame gradu­ate. The University officially bans the use of lists for solicitations, and institutes electronic limits on downloads to a maxi­mum of 500 files. Unfortunately, the McKenna campaign circumvented those limitations which ultimately phished me into their digital campaign net. 
Last Friday, at University President Fr. John Jenkins’ Washington, D.C., recep­tion following the Right to Life March, I sat at length discussing the e-mail data breach with several University officials including those from our alumni associa­tion office. They emphasized their guid­ing principle of neutrality and privacy protections with all proprietary data col­lected from alumni. They further clarified the University’s policy to me and acknowledged that they are well aware of how McKenna supporters maneuvered around the firewall limitations. I left our discussion with the impression that the breach’s loophole had been closed once and for all. 
As one who has tumbled within the rough world of campaigns and developed a thick political skin, the data breach ini­tially in my mind was more of a campaign spam one-ups-man-ship until I heard complaints from others who considered the incident a breach of the University’s trust. Moreover, campaign tactics do not excuse or lessen the deleterious effect such digital maneuvering has within our alumni ranks. For many who leave their politics at the edge of campus, this is not just the phishing of alumni e-mail addresses. It is a break in the trust that they placed in their support for Notre Dame because they believe that they per­sonally are being used as a commodity — good only until the candidacy of McKenna (or any other soliciting alumni) ends. 
Party affiliation is not the issue regard­ing this data breach. Prior University service or official status is not the issue either. Regardless of whether or not McKenna personally knew of the efforts or the initiative was by rogue fellow alumni, a Notre Dame education should have taught them such values and ethics principles that they would have turned to other social media outlets or limited themselves within the University guide­lines. Being given much and expecting much in return especially applies to those among us who interact with others who call Notre Dame “home.” 
Gary Caruso, Notre Dame ‘73, serves in the Department of Homeland Security and was a legislative and public affairs director in President Clinton’s administration. His column appears every other Friday. He can be contacted at GaryJCaruso@alumni.nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Thank you, and goodbye 
My best year at Notre Dame was a year abroad in Innsbruck, Austria. I learned more in those 10 months that impacted my life than my three year undergrad and two years MBA at Notre Dame. It wasn’t book learning. It was learning how to grow up, to be independent and how to rely on yourself. How to hitchhike from Amsterdam to Innsbruck with 75 cents in your pocket. How to deal with auto mechan­ics across Europe to repair your VW. How to survive Christmas abroad by organizing a ski hostel in the Austrian Alps and inviting members from all Notre Dame clubs to come and spend the holiday together. How to make locals your friends and integrate within a culture. How to take off on a bike and ride to Le Havre, France, 800 miles away. Innsbruck, surround­ed with majestic mountains and wonderful people was a Shangrila for those that took a risk and com­mitted early to spend a year there. Too bad you cur­rent students will miss this opportunity of a lifetime. 
Auf Wiedersehen Innsbruck. 
Peter Burke 
alumnus Innsbruck ‘70 Jan. 28 


Concerns and recommendations 
Editor’s Note: This guest column was written by members of the Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students as well as the former Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Network. 
We come together as former members of the Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students, as well as the former Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian Student Needs, to address the Jan. 13 publication of “The Mobile Party.” We believe that the creation and allowance of this deplorable comic to go to press is evidence of the systemic problems of homophobia and prejudice that continue to exist on cam­pus. 
During our respective tenures, we worked tirelessly to advise the administration on how to remedy the very issues of hate, homophobia and intolerance promoted in the comic strip. We knew firsthand of students who were so uncom­fortable in what was supposed to be their “home away from home” that they would pray before falling asleep that they didn’t wake up in the morning. Because of this, we worked to ensure that every gay and lesbian student felt secure and safe enough to actualize his or her full potential as a schol­ar, individual, and contributing member of the community. We hoped when we left that we had made it a more wel­coming place. However, this recent event is an unfortunate confirmation that more needs to be done. 
Even though this publication has resulted in outrage, we found the apology from The Observer Editorial Board great­ly lacking. Except for a cursory mention of the Core Council, never once did their statement address the harmed com­munity directly. They also never stated what the comic con­tained, why it was hurtful, and to whom it was directed. Even upon reading the University’s official response, we were still dissatisfied. The response merely echoed what was said by The Observer. This vagueness demonstrates that Notre Dame has not yet acknowledged the presence of a gay and lesbian community. The students negatively affected by this deserve more. 
Over the course of our collected years at Notre Dame, we have been involved in an innumerable number of commit­tees, advisory sessions and presentations related to toler­ance and education about issues related to sexuality. However, those things can only do so much to create sys­temic change. They should not be used as a replacement for direct and concrete action by the University. It seems, at times, that all of these discussions and forums only exist to quell the demands being made for real action. It’s time for the University to put real substance behind what it claims to promote, instead of attempting to pacify the gay and lesbian members of its community with lip service. 
We call on the University to address this shameful episode in a way more befitting a reputable institution of higher learning that prides itself on “seek[ing] to cultivate in its stu­dents … a disciplined sensibility to the poverty, injustice, and oppression that burden the lives of so many.” We feel that the following actions need to be taken in order to show the public that Notre Dame is a place where everyone, gay or straight, is welcome and valued. 
1) The University must take direct action to address the underlying problems of homophobia on campus. A declara­tion needs to be made that this type of behavior will not be tolerated by a school that states that “God’s grace prompts human activity to assist the world in creating justice grounded in love.” 
2) As has been advised numerous times in the past, the University must add “sexual orientation” to its non-discrimi­nation clause to officially affirm that no individual on cam­pus is considered a second-class citizen. They must show that all students — gay and straight — deserve equal amounts of fairness, respect and protection. The mere promise of a safe space for everyone is undone when no real body exists to authoritatively create and preserve the vowed environment. 
3) An official gay/straight student group must be allowed/established. Notre Dame is the only school on the Top 20 National Research Universities list to not have a rec­ognized gay/straight alliance. Ignoring and undervaluing select members of a community only serves to limit the learning experience for the whole campus. 
4) The consultative role of the Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students needs to be taken more seriously. In 2008, the Council composed an internal report to University offi­cials about the serious conditions confronting gays and les­bians at Notre Dame and how to improve campus life and administrative policies. The counsels made were not heed­ed in a palpable sense, and that lack of action is evidenced by this recent dehumanizing event. 
We hope that the University realizes it is time to move for­ward and takes our concerns and recommendations seri­ously. We implore the University to use the opportunity pre­sented by this shameful episode to fulfill its obligation “to create a sense of human solidarity and concern for the com­mon good that will bear fruit as learning becomes service to justice.” In light of recent events, this is needed now more than ever. 
Guillermo J. Alfaro Alexandre Chapeaux Mackay Gunn Brad Mattan Chris Vierig Jim Fobert Joanna Basile TIffany Thompson Andy Magee Day Zimlich 
alumni Jan. 28 
The Observer 
Scene

page 10 Friday, January 29, 2010 


By STEPHANIE DePREZ 
Assistant Scene Editor 
The Actors form the London Stage present their five-person show, William Shakespeare’s “Romeo and Juliet,” for the last time tonight in Washington Hall after a week of classroom work and performances. 
There is perhaps nothing more cliché in British literature than “Romeo and Juliet” by Shakespeare. The story is known in grade school, read in middle school, re-read in high school and perhaps beaten to death by the time one gets to college. The quest, then, to make the story of the inescapably star-crossed lovers relevant or entertaining can be quite a challenge. 
The Actors from the London Stage (AFTLS) pull it off — and then some. Their no-holds physical rendition is by far the most unique performance of the classic tale on this side of the Atlantic. Going beyond just an “updated version,” these five actors thrust the doomed love story into an MTV aesthetic. Far from Elizabethan, this staging ends up more along the lines of Eliz-Urbethan. 
But what are they even doing here? Actress Liz Crowther, who plays the Nurse, Prince and Paris, among others, explains how this group grew from the Royal Shakespeare Company (RSC). 
“Thirty years ago, a teaching tour was cancelled. The actors were so sad that they decided to stay where they were and mount their own thing. The program took off, and today it is five actors who direct, design and act all the parts,” Crowther said. The trick, then, becomes making a story clear on a stripped away stage. “The text stands out,” Crowther said, forcing the actors to find new ways to deliver it. 
Today the actors are drawn from the RSC, Shakespeare’s Globe Theatre and the Royal National Theatre of Great Britain. They are invited to par­ticipate in the AFTLS tour, which brings not only a show to Notre Dame, but also lectures, work­shops, seminars and classroom appearances. Throughout the week Crowther and her col­leagues, Marshall Griffin, Jennifer Higham, Geoffrey Lumb and Martin Parr, tromped all over this wind-swept, snowy campus from class to rehearsal and back to class, toting the beauty of the Bard. 
One might wonder what a lake-effect weather n00b might be thinking. “Blinking heck!” Crowther said. 
“Notre Dame is absolutely extraordinary. It’s very exciting to be here. We’ve had nice reac­tions in class to things,” she said. “We even saw a skunk!” 
They’ve also had quite an interesting time navigating cam­pus. 
“It’s an incredible place. Schools like Cambridge have lots of different colleges, but this is amazing,” Crowther said. 
They certainly add to its luster with their performance, which takes the stripped down version of the text and spices it up with enough sexual innuendo to 
keep a high schooler glued. 
The performance opens up with all five actors in hoodies, hoods up. Two rival soccer teams (or should we say football?) begin a game and conflict ensues. From this fray develops a story laced with movement and music. The blocking is so physically involved that it almost becomes a dance, with some­thing visually entertaining going on at all times. What would in any other situation look overly physically explanatory seems appropriate because 
the actors are completely com­mitted to engaging each other and the audience. Nothing seems like overkill because the flow has so much continuity. 
From gang fights to dirty jokes, there is no lack of urban flavor. There is just as much innuendo as needed and it’s well played, keeping you wondering if they’re really going to go there (and yes, they do). As Crowther pointed out, “It’s lovely to have a young Romeo and Juliet, because they can do it so beauti­fully.” 
Tonight is the last opportuni­ty to brush up on your Shakespeare and catch these Brits before they move on. “Shakespeare is the most mar­velous man,” Crowther said. “Four hundred years after death, he’s still astonishing people.” 
“Romeo and Juliet” begins at 
7:30 p.m. tonight in Washington Hall. Tickets are $12 for students. Call (574) 631-2800 or visit the Web site performingarts.nd.edu for tick­ets. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at ssdeprez@nd.edu 
By TATIANA SPRAGINS 
Scene Writer 
Everyone’s classic bedtime story book, “Where the Wild Things Are,” is still a favorite today even though it was first published in 1963. Fortunately for those of you who miss those good old days, you’ll get a chance to revisit the tale at a whole other level this weekend. SUB will be presenting Spike Jonze’s beautifully produced 2009 film adaptation tonight and Saturday. 
The movie, with its lovely photography, simple lines and incredible acting by the little boy who plays Max (Max Records), caused quite a stir when it came out and for good reason. Although it is based on a children’s book and has “mon­sters” as main characters, this is no movie for kids. The delicate sentimentality that Jonze brought to the adaptation makes it a movie for the generations who read “Where the Wild Things Are” as children, not for the children still reading it. Be sure you’ll feel an unsettling sense of anxiety as you watch Max deal with the Wild Things and all of their naturally childish fears, emotions and thoughts. The result is a some­times dark, sometimes childishly carefree movie about the mind and emotions of children. It manages to be both charming and heartbreaking all in one. 
By MARY CLAIRE O’DONNELL 
Scene Writer 
“Cause the house always wins. Play long enough, you never change the stakes. The house takes you.” Danny Ocean’s wise words may have been true for the aggressive Las Vegas strip, but fortunately his words do not ring true for “Casino Night,” McGlinn’s signa­ture event. Proceeds collected at the event, which takes place Saturday at 10 p.m., will benefit a local charity. 
The lovely ladies of McGlinn have been plan­ning this event since October, and Hall President Amanda Bremer “thinks it will be the best Casino Night yet.” All proceeds from this year’s event will go to St. Adalbert’s School in South Bend. McGlinn chose this organization because every Monday through Friday, girls tutor at the after-school program there, so, according to Bremer, the donation “has more meaning than just raising money for a charity.” The donation is a great way to see improve­ment in a place where the girls are already try­ing to make a difference. 
St Adalbert’s is a Notre Dame Magnificat School and is therefore already closely tied to the University. The money raised will help pro­vide services to the school located just minutes from campus. Every donation helps improve the school, thereby helping out every child who attends. 
For those who have never attended a Casino Night before, the event is a mix of dancing and poker. At 10 p.m., McGlinn girls will be deal­ing blackjack at a number of tables in one end of South Dining Hall. At 10:30 p.m., a Texas Hold ‘Em Tournament will begin. In order to make sure you get a seat, it is recommended to arrive about 20 minutes prior to the start. The top two finishers will receive iPods as prizes. 
The Shamrocks have worked hard this year 
What is also particularly remarkable is how Jonze manages to adapt this three-minute read into a story plot of two hours. It could have easi­ly been an extension of the book without ever losing any bit of its magic. He details Max’s adventures as King of the Wild Things and the viewer, who now has the wise eyes of adulthood and maturity, learns that the wild things are nothing more than children who never grew up. Turns out that where the Wild Things are is where our childhood is, and we’re the Wild Things. 
Also worth noting is the beautiful cinematogra­phy and awesome soundtrack. Yeah Yeah Yeahs’ lead singer Karen O and The Kids composed a dreamy track that fits in oh-so-perfectly with basically everything in the movie. Through this compilation, Jonze maintains a sense of inno­cence that truly characterizes the movie. 
“Where the Wild Things Are” will make you laugh and it will make you sad, and when you leave, you will leave thoughtfully reminiscing the days in which you were a Wild Thing yourself, screaming and crying and telling everyone how much you hate them at one moment, only to gig­gle, cuddle up and tell that same person how much you love them the next. 
Contact Tatiana Spragins at tspragin@nd.edu 
to make improvements from last year’s Night. Due to high demand, they have expanded the poker tournament. Also, for the first time, roulette wheels will be spinning the whole evening for a little extra gambling fun. In order to quench the thirst of all the high rollers, the girls will be offering mock-tails, tried and tested by the Hall Council. 
For those not as interested in poker and gambling, there will also be a dance floor. A DJ will be spinning today’s greatest hits, so get ready to bump and grind to “Down” by Jay Sean or bust out Beyoncé’s moves from “Single Ladies.” Also, watch out for intermittent clas­sics such as “YMCA” or “Cha Cha Slide.” 
If your excellent dancing skills tire you out and you need a quick breather, food will be provided as the perfect pick-me-up for a tiring dancer or Hold’Em player. Furthermore, all the food will go great with the delicious mock-tails being served. 
And if poker, roulette or blackjack are not really skills or hobbies of yours, but you still want to bring home a prize, there will be plen­ty of raffles to enter. Prizes range from gift cards to Target or Chipotle, to gift baskets from South Bend Chocolate Company, movies and even a Nintendo Wii. 
Tickets to this exciting and entertaining evening are still on sale. At both dining halls tonight, McGlinn girls will sell tickets for $5 each. And for those indecisive folks, tickets will still be available at the door at the same price. 
So get gussied up in your best mock-tail party attire, remember to bring your good luck charm, whatever it may be, and the lovely ladies of McGlinn will see you at South Dining Hall tomorrow night for a night of big bets and bumping beats. 
Contact Mary Claire O’Donnell at modonne5@nd.edu 

BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 

The Observer 
Scene

Friday, January 29, 2010 page 11 


is living with Juliet. It is clear that he never got over his 

By ALEX KILPATRICK 
relationship with Kate, who was always torn between 

Assitant Scene Editor 
him and Jack. Jin, Miles and Faraday are also part of 
the Dharma Initiative, but if you thought it wasn’t pos­
sible, things get even more complicated when Kate, 

It’s everyone’s favorite ABC sci-fi show. Whether you Jack and Hurley return to the island and must pretend watch it for the mystery, the philosophical value, the that they are part of an incoming crew for Dharma. sweet action scenes, the relationships or just the attrac-Sayid also returns, but is mistaken for a Hostile (which tive characters, you can’t look away from the screen. If pretty much refers to anyone on the island not part of you thought the first few seasons of “LOST” were weird, Dharma) and is imprisoned, where he meets a 12-year­
what with smoke monsters, the appearance of polar old Ben Linus, whom he attempts to kill. At this point, bears on a tropical island and an underground hatch we learn that “whatever happened, happened.” with a button meant to be pressed every 108 minutes, Although these experiences are new for the survivors of 
you’re in for a whirlwind of a sixth and final season. So Flight 815, it already happened in the overall timeline. to prepare you for the final 18 episodes of the show Even if Sayid attempts to kill young Ben, he must sur­that has had millions watching for the past five and a vive because we already know that he is alive in the half years, here is a synopsis to keep you up to date on 2000s. the happenings of everyone’s favorite fictional island. This brings us to “The Incident.” We meet the Hostiles 
Season 4 saw the arrival of billionaire Charles when Ben is brought to them to heal the gunshot Widmore’s research team to the island on the freighter wound inflicted by Sayid. The Hostiles include Richard “Kahana,” as well as the escape of the Oceanic Six from Alpert (one of the Others who never ages), Eloise the island, shown in flash-forwards. The Oceanic Six Hawking and Charles Widmore, who are all on the consists of Jack, Kate, Sun, Hurley, Sayid and Claire’s island in 1954, when a hydrogen bomb called Jughead baby Aaron. Token evil genius Ben Linus, former leader is buried underground to keep it from going off for at of the Others, turns an underground dial at the end of least 50 years. When Faraday warns the island’s inhab-
Season 4 and as the Oceanic Six leave the island in a itants in 1977 of an impending catastrophe involving helicopter, it dislodges the island from time so that no electromagnetic energy at the Swan Station, they one in the outside world can possibly find it. remember the bomb buried on the island in the 1950s 
The turn of the dial then causes the remaining sur-and decide to detonate it in order to prevent the con­vivors of Flight 815 to erratically jump forward and struction of the Swan and ensure that the plane never backward through time. Widmore team member, Daniel crashes on the island in 2004, ignoring the theory of 
Faraday, a physics mastermind, explains this fictional “whatever happened, happened.” Of course, when the scientific phenomenon to the flight survivors and to the bomb is dropped into the Station during the Season 5 viewers at home. At this point, viewers have lost all finale, it does not immediately go off and some of the hope that “LOST” will work within the realm of physics energy is released. Juliet accidentally falls into the sta­or even some set standard of rules. The producers play tion with the bomb and sacrificially detonates it during 
with the minds of viewers so that it is entirely impossi-the last second of the show, leaving viewers with a ble to guess what will happen next in the show. cliffhanger. 
Season 5 followed two plotlines, the first showing the Another significant side plot involves the body of survivors remaining on the island (everyone left from Locke, who was killed by Ben off the island in 2007. Flight 815 plus Widmore’s research team minus the His body is brought on Ajira Airways Flight 316, but 
Oceanic Six) jumping around in time until they are when many of the passengers land on the island in eventually stranded with the Dharma Initiative in 1974. 2007, Locke is found alive and is on a mission to go kill The Dharma Initiative is essentially a communal scien-Jacob, the island’s highest authority. However, we learn 
tific research compound, which began on the island in at the end of the season finale that the man who 1970, that holds utopian ideals and whose origins are appears to be Locke is in fact Jacob’s rival and long-first explained in Season 2 with the “Orientation” video time acquaintance, the Man in Black, who dislikes 
by Dr. Marvin Candle. Jacob bringing people to the island, feeling that it leads The second plotline follows the Oceanic Six’s lives off to violence and destruction, and desires to kill him, 
the island and their return to the island on Ajira with a loophole. In 2007, he manages to kill him by tak-Airways Flight 316 in 2007, nearly three years after ing on the form of Locke and coercing Ben to kill Jacob they left. Most of the passengers land on the island in in his residence inside the four-toed statue. 
2007, but Kate, Jack, Hurley and Sayid land in 1977. To Still confused? If you are in need of more of a recap, 
their immense surprise, they find when they return that a special synopsis episode will air on ABC on Tuesday the remaining survivors have become part of the at 8 p.m. The final season of “LOST” will premiere with Dharma Initiative. a two-hour episode directly following at 9 p.m. 
Sawyer, the comic relief of the show, has become LaFleur, head of security for the Dharma Initiative and Contact Alex Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Friday, January 29, 2010 
AUSTRALIAN OPEN 

Andy Murray defeats Cilic, moves on to final 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia — There he was, mouth agape, roaring like a Highlands war­rior in full battle cry in “Braveheart.” 
The force from Andy Murray’s lungs seemed to add heft to the forehand winner he hurled down the line. The match turned there — in the fifth game of the second set — and it would not be long before the 22-year-old Scot was on his way to the Australian Open final. 
After dropping serve twice in the opening set to Croatia’s Marin Cilic, Murray recovered to win the semifinal 3-6, 6-4, 6­4, 6-2 and reach his second Grand Slam final. “It was really important because I don’t want to say the match was slipping away from me, but the momentum was definitely with him,” Murray said. 
Now, with only top-ranked Roger Federer or Jo-Wilfried Tsonga ahead, he is one win from breaking a drought for British men at the four majors that dates to Fred Perry in 1936. 
That’s a lot of pressure on Murray. It proved too much for the likes of Tim Henman, John Lloyd and others. But the pres­sure valve was released, at least for a few sets Thursday night, in one riveting point. 
Murray raced to the net to reach a ball that had caught the net and dropped onto his side. He then made a lunging volley to extend the rally and sprinted back to the baseline to chase down Cilic’s deep lob. Somehow, spinning as he swung the racket blindly right to left, he hit a forehand winner past Cilic. 
Then he roared a prolonged roar. 
The challenge from Cilic, who had beaten Murray in straight sets in the fourth round of the 
U.S. Open, faded. The more than eight hours he had spent on court across five matches had taken its toll. 
“He played some really aggressive tennis … was putting me under a lot of pressure,” Murray said. “But, yeah, that shot made a big difference. I just managed to chase it down.” 
After watching the replay, he added in his understated mono­tone: “I never realized my mouth was so big.” 
And, by the way, he insists he practices that shot. 
Murray is the first British man to reach two Grand Slam finals in the Open era and the first to reach the Australian Open final since Lloyd in 1977. He will watch Friday night’s semifinal between Federer, a three-time Australian champ, and Tsonga, the 2008 runner-up. 
Federer, who beat Murray in the U.S. Open final in 2008, is in his 23rd consecutive Grand Slam semifinal — more than double the previous record stretch — and has won a record 15 major singles titles. 
The Swiss star was in every Grand Slam final last year, los­ing in Australia to Rafael Nadal and losing at the U.S. Open to Juan Martin del Potro. 
But Murray, who beat an injured Nadal in the quarterfi­nals, has a 6-4 record in head­to-heads with Federer and is 2­1 against Tsonga. That gives hope to millions of Britons. And that’s also why Murray is happy to be on the other side of the world. 
“You don’t really feel it that much. Wimbledon is a bit differ­ent, especially in the lead-up to the tournament,” he said. “But when you’re away, don’t take any notice of it … just kind of avoid it, I guess.” 
There are no expectations on Tsonga. He can swing with the freedom he did in his five-set win over 2008 champion Novak Djokovic in the quarterfinals. 
In 11 Grand Slam tourna­ments, he’d never played a five-set match. Now he’s played two back-to-back. Immediately after beating Djokovic, to avenge his loss in Australia two years ago, he told the stadium fans he was ready for more right away, pointing to the crowd and ask­ing for volunteers. 
But he faces the best in the business in Federer. After falling a set and a break down against No. 6 Nikolay Davydenko in the quarterfinals, Federer changed gears and won 13 straight games to take the match away from the Russian, who had been riding a 13­match winning streak. 
Justine Henin did much the same thing to Zheng Jie, who won only the first game of their semifinal on Thursday. Henin, once ranked No. 1, saved three break points in the next game. That was the start of a 12-game roll that ended 6-1, 6-0 in 51 minutes — the shortest match of the tournament and the most lopsided in 27 years. 
Henin, only two tournaments into a comeback from a year and a half in retirement, is aim­ing for an eighth Grand Slam title and first in Australia since 2004. She’ll have to get past four-time Australian Open champion Serena Williams first. And Williams has never lost a final at Melbourne Park. 
NFL 
Super Bowl a great matchup 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — Peyton Manning, the Big Easy. 
Hardly a stretch for a nick­name, you know. The NFL’s dominant player can claim New Orleans heritage, after all. At 6-foot-5, 230 pounds, he’s no shrimp. And as the only four-time league MVP, he makes this quarterbacking thing look simple. 
Yet when Manning leads his Indianapolis Colts onto the field next Sunday against the Saints in as juicy a Super Bowl matchup as anyone could imagine, all of Nawlins 
— heck, pretty much any place in Bayou Country — will be wishing the worst on their native son. 
Sorry, Peyton, the Saints take precedence in their quest for a first NFL champi­onship. 
Manning, whose father Archie was the first Saints superstar, understands. 
“It’s certainly an exciting opportunity for our team to be going back to the Super Bowl down in Miami, and I’m very happy for the New Orleans Saints and, of course, the entire city of New Orleans,” Peyton Manning says. “My parents live there, my older brother Cooper lives there. Eli and I have both participated in philanthropic organizations down in New Orleans, whether it’s Katrina relief or just various chari­ties. So New Orleans is a huge part of my life, as well as Eli’s life. My dad’s been a part of the Saints organization for 39 years in some ways. We defi­nitely have strong ties. 
“The Saints have had a great year. They deserve it, and I know the city is excited. And the New Orleans Saints players do just wonderful things for the community down there. It’s been a great relationship between the players and fans, and what a great way for these players to reward them with a trip to the Super Bowl.” 
But it’s Manning’s job to spoil the party, to put some misery into the Miami Mardi Gras for those Saints and their fans. Nobody is better equipped to do so. 
Manning once was criticized for failing to win big games, and his career playoff record is just 9-8. He’s won six of the last eight, though, and led the Colts to the championship three years ago, in the rain in Miami. Indy is 16-2 this time around, and it might have been a perfect 18-0 if the Colts hadn’t pulled Manning and other starters in the final two games of the regular sea­son. 
Manning set an NFL record for 300-yard playoff games with his seventh in last week’s AFC championship win over the Jets. He has 22 TD passes, five this year, and averages 284 yards through the air in the postseason. 
Against two of the league’s stingiest defenses — Indy beat the Ravens before the Jets — Manning was master­ful. 
The Saints (15-3) aren’t exactly the 1985 Bears. On defense, they’re not even the 2009 Colts. 
Still, Manning is cautious. 
“You know a team is going to have a Super Bowl pack­age,” he says. “There are two weeks to prepare. That’s more things they can change. You have to prepare for the unexpected.” 
The unexpected? Such as the Aints in the Super Bowl? 
Let that one roll around your mind like the good times on Bourbon Street. 
The Saints were one of five teams never to get this far; the Lions, Jaguars, Browns and Texans are the remaining outsiders. Clearly, now, the Aints are dead, and a fran­chise that had no home in 2005 after Hurricane Katrina ravaged New Orleans has become one of the most suc­cessful clubs in the nation’s most popular sport. 
And while Indy has become as much a football town as a basketball haven thanks to Manning and his minions, it’s difficult to find any city as infatuated with — or as dependent on — its team as Nawlins is now. 
Times have been hard for the city, which still is in recovery mode from Katrina. Nothing has provided quite the boost that the Saints’ ascendancy has given New Orleanians. 

Indeed, a city steeped in a culture all its own shares a very fundamental trait with the rest of America: pride in local triumph. It’s not some­thing Saints fans are accus­tomed to, but it’s something Drew Brees believes can become habit. 
“Winning definitely can be contagious,” he says. 
The best way to establish such a habit: win next Sunday in the biggest game in New Orleans football history. 
“It’s a moment I’ve been waiting for for a long time,” Brees said. “The job is not done yet but obviously we’re going to enjoy this. Now we’ve got to finish it in Miami.” 
Can they? If history is an indicator, why not? After all, the Buccaneers had an even uglier resume and they won it all seven years ago, beating one of the premier franchises, the Raiders. 
We know the Saints will attack on offense, and getting in a shootout with the Colts is not such a bad idea; New Orleans led the league with 510 points. The Saints, who forced 39 turnovers, must be proactive on defense to match the aggressiveness with which the Colts have per­formed recently — just as Indy did in its Super Bowl run after the 2006 season. 
If Manning gets free rein, he’s likely to have the answer for all those “Who Dats?” they’re proudly screaming in the French Quarter. 
It might even be a Big Easy for him. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

If you or someone you care about Happy birthday Mo & Sona. “I have killed two people since mid-has been sexually assaulted, we ———————————————-night. I haven't slept in over 24WANTED FOR RENT PERSONAL can help. Extra Christmas lights you want to hours. So maybe you should be a 
get rid of? Mike will take them. little more afraid of me than you are gradrentals.viewwork.com UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? For more information, visit Notre mburton1@nd.edu now.” - Jack Bauer ——————————————— Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has Dame's website: http.csap.nd.edu ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Babysitter needed for ND family, Luxury 2 Bed 2 Full Bath many resources in place to assist ——————————————— Advice: Don’t drop your phone in Dream Team Forever 
Apartments you. If you or someone you love The iPad is really just an oversized, the toilet, and then wash it in the MDJ Fri. a.m.'s For IMMEDIATE Move In! Full Size needs confidential support or assis-less portable iPod Touch. sink. It won’t work. ——————————————— 8:30-12:30 Washer and Dryer, Optional tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at ——————————————— “The world isn’t ready for the wall of beg. 2/12; Fireplace, Dishwasher, Walk In 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For Also, could I have my check, “Sorry this isn’t Heineken snow for quotes.” - J. Yurkovich. 
Closets, Awesome Floorplan For more information, visit ND's web please? you.” ——————————————— $25/day Roomates! site: ——————————————— ——————————————— “That’s our starting goaltender!” 
Call Today For Discounted ND Did you just get PJ’d? “With all due respect, Madam ——————————————— Call 574-204-2642 Student Pricing! 574-256-1350. http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu How embarrassing. President, ask around” - J. Bauer “Not at the table, Carlos!” ——————————————— ——————————————— ———————————————-——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around t eNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Friday, January 29, 2010 
page 13 

Division I AP Women’s Basketball Rankings 
team previous 
NBA 

Hawks look for fourth win over Celtics 
Joe Johnson and Al points per game, and sweep of the Celtics came 
Associated Press 
Horford were selected as Smith also would receive with three wins in 1998­
ATLANTA — The Eastern Conference All-consideration from the 99. Their last 4-0 sweep Atlanta Hawks are trying Star reserves on Eastern Conference head was in the 1995-96 sea-to show they belong with Thursday. coaches. son. the elite teams in the Horford, averaging 13.6 Atlanta had won six of Crawford said a sweep Eastern Conference. points and 9.8 rebounds, seven before a humbling of the Celtics would help 
A four-game sweep of will make his first All-Star 105-90 loss at San Antonio prove the Hawks belong the Boston Celtics would appearance. He finished on Wednesday night. The with the top teams in the be an impressive way to third in voting for Eastern Hawks reviewed game conference. make the statement. Conference centers. film of the loss Thursday “That would be a big 
The Hawks will try to “When you start the sea-but were eager to look statement because every-complete the regular-sea-son you set goals for your-ahead to the Celtics. body had us the fourth-son sweep of the Celtics self,” Horford said. “That’s “I don’t think they look best team but now we're on Friday night. They will definitely one of them.” at us as a rivalry yet, but I right there in the mix with play another important Johnson, who leads the think that they totally see the top three,” Crawford conference game Saturday team with 21.3 points per that they can see us down said. “It will be interesting at Orlando. game, will make his fourth the line,” Atlanta’s Jamal to see what happens.” 
The Hawks, fourth in the straight appearance. Crawford said Thursday. Josh Smith said the Eastern Conference last The Hawks have two All-“They want to send a mes-Hawks can’t assume regu­season, are contending Star selections for the first sage and we want to con-lar-season success will with the Celtics and Magic time since 1998. They tinue to play well against provide any postseason for second place behind hoped Crawford, second them.” guarantees should they Cleveland. on the team with 17.4 The Hawks’ last season face the Celtics again. 
IN BRIEF 
Josh Cribbs likely to return Dwight Freeney recovers Kansas athletes stick to Browns next season from injury just in time around one more season 
LAUDERHILL, Fla. — Cleveland’s INDIANAPOLIS — Colts defensive LAWRENCE, Kan. — Sherron Josh Cribbs is feeling more confi-end Dwight Freeney has missed a Collins consulted family, friends dent that he'll be playing for the second straight practice Thursday and coaches before deciding Browns next season. with a sprained right ankle. between the NBA and one more 
Cribbs, the multitalented wide Coach Jim Caldwell said Freeney season at Kansas. Cole Aldrich took receiver and kick returner who’ll was “coming along” in his recovery a similar approach. play for the AFC in Sunday’s Pro but did not provide details. Team Mostly, though, they talked to Bowl, said earlier this month that president Bill Polian has main-each other. I’m not going without he thought it was “unlikely” he’ll tained Freeney will play in next you, or something along those play another game for Cleveland week’s Super Bowl. lines, is what they said. after a $1.4 million contract offer Starting cornerback Jerraud This was always going to be a for next season. Powers sat out with a left foot package deal. 
But on Thursday, he indicated injury after missing Sunday’s AFC After a spring-long discussion, that new Browns president Mike championship game with the the decision was one more year. Holmgren has reached out to him injury. The NBA and its riches could wait. and “wants to get something done Starting safety Melvin Bullitt also They wanted another national soon.” was added to the practice report championship. Together. 
Cribbs says he would “love to with a knee injury Thursday. He “Cole was the one calling, meet-play for the Browns” and hopes did not practice and the Colts have ing with me and telling me he that his contract situation is not said which knee Bullitt hurt. needed me to come back,” Collins worked out” Two other Indy players — safety said. “He had a chance to make 
Cribbs holds the NFL record for Antoine Bethea (back) and backup some money, too, but he wanted to career kickoff return touchdowns tight end Jacob Tamme (ankle) — come back. Altogether, it was a with eight. were limited at workouts. good deal.” 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 Connecticut Stanford NORTRE DAME Ohio State Tennessee Nebraska Duke Texas A&M Georgia Xavier Oklahoma North Carolina Florida State Baylor Oklahoma State West Virginia Georgetown LSU Texas TCU Virginia Iowa State Penn State Green Bay Georgia Tech 
1 2 4 5 3 7 6 9 8 11 13 14 15 10 12 16 19 18 20 23 25 NR NR 17 22 

CSCAA Men’s Swimming Rankings 
team previous 
1 Texas 1 2 Stanford 2 3 Arizona 4 4 California 3 5 Auburn 5 6 Florida 4 7 Michigan 7 8 Virginia 9 9 Ohio State 12 10 Minnesota 8 11 Tennessee 11 12 Georgia 10 13 Southern California 13 14 North Carolina 14 15 Florida State 15 16 Louisville 16 17 LSU 18 18 Purdue 19 19 Texas A&M 22 20 Alabama 21 21 Kentucky 16 22 UNLV 18 23 SMU 21 24 Virginia Tech 24 25 Indiana 24 


around the dial 
Winter X Games 
7 p.m., ESPN 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, January 29, 2010 
NFL 

Pro Bowlers’ trip to South Florida bittersweet 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — For 86 of the NFL’s best players, the season is end­ing where they wanted: in Miami. 
Their timing’s off, though. 
With a new venue and new slot on the league calendar, the Pro Bowl will be played Sunday as a preliminary to next week’s Super Bowl on the same field. 
It definitely feels like a warmup act. 
“There’s a bittersweet taste,” said quarterback Tony Romo, a 
Ticket sales show the excite­ment level is up, Supovitz said. And he’s optimistic about the television audience for the game. 
“It’s being shown on a week­end when there’s usually no football and interest in the NFL is at its highest,” he said. 
Those tuning in will see estab­lished stars such as Ray Lewis, Antonio Gates and DeMarcus Ware, as well as first-time Pro Bowlers such as DeAngelo Williams, Clay Matthews and Matt Schaub. The TV audience 

late addition to they attract will 
“There’s a bittersweet 
the NFC roster help the NFL after his Dallas taste. You’re always decide where Cowboys came and when to play 
hoping to play in the
up two wins shy future Pro 
big game.” 
of a Super Bowl Bowls. berth. “You’re The game will always hoping to Tony Romo return to play in the big Honolulu in 2011 
Cowboys quarterback 
game.” and 2012, but 
The NFL is try-the league hasn’t ing to transform decided whether the Pro Bowl into a bigger game to hold those games before or by playing it before the Super after the Super Bowl. The Pro Bowl for the first time. In a one-Bowl site for 2013 and beyond year experiment, the league also hasn’t been determined. moved the game from Honolulu, Players had mixed reactions to its home since 1980. this year’s changes. Many said 
The results: increased media they preferred the old schedule coverage and the best atten-so those in the Super Bowl could dance in 51 years, with a sellout also be available for the Pro crowd of more than 70,000 Bowl. expected. “I’d rather have it after the 
The changes haven’t helped Super Bowl,” 49ers linebacker participation, though. Seven Patrick Willis said. “I truly Colts and seven Saints are miss-believe next year we’re going to ing because they’re preparing be in the Super Bowl, and I want for the Super Bowl, a drawback to play in the Pro Bowl too.” to playing the Pro Bowl first. But Romo said he could see 
Defections by players citing the appeal of putting the Pro injuries were high, as usual. Bowl first. More than a dozen pulled out, “There’s something to be said leaving the all-star teams with for playing the game during the only some stars. season,” he said. “I think more 
“That has been historic,” said people are interested.” Frank Supovitz, the NFL’s senior By moving the game to the vice president for events. “That’s Super Bowl site, the NFL creat­nothing new.” ed a bigger spotlight for the Pro 
And that’s not what the league Bowl. There are 1,076 creden­sought to fix by changing the tialed media members this date and site of the game, week, compared with 334 in Supovitz said. 
“The changes were meant to look at two things: Whether we could create more excitement with the Pro Bowl being the first event of Super Bowl week, and whether it would have an impact on TV ratings,” he said. 

Honolulu a year ago. 
That’s good for the league, and maybe not so good for the all-stars. 
“There’s a lot more media here, that’s for sure,” said eight-time Pro Bowl center Kevin Mawae, addressing a throng of reporters after an AFC practice. “It’s not as relaxed here. There’s a little more hustle and bustle here than there would be at the resort where we stay in Hawaii.” 
Still, practices this week were pretty laid back. AFC offensive linemen ran pass patterns. Browns kick returner Joshua Cribbs took a wildcat snap. Eagles receiver DeSean Jackson threw a pass on an end-around. Bengals receiver Chad Ochocinco practiced punting and kicking and said he may boot one in the game. 
The primary goal seemed to be having a few laughs, which at the end of a long season was understandable. For players who came up short of the Super Bowl, the Pro Bowl can be a consolation prize worth accept­ing. 
Running back Adrian Peterson decided not to play, then changed his mind two days after his Vikings lost in the NFC championship game. 
“I was beating myself up, and then I realized that really wasn’t the right route to go,” Peterson said. “I’m here, and I’m going to enjoy myself.” 



Friday, January 29, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
SMC SWIMMING 

Seniors prepare for fnal regular season meet 
By MEGAN FINNERAN Sports Writer  classes in particular are look­ing to end the regular season on a high note.  Another powerful freshman, Katie Griffin, has taken first in the 200-yard  1,000-yard freestyle and sec­ond in the 500-yard freestyle, Niemann said  place finish in the 50-yard freestyle. While her knee has not completely healed, she is  
“Calvin is a  good team, but  freestyle  and  she hopes to  ready  to  tough it  out  once  
Saint Mary’s took first in eight out of 13 events last weekend, and have a chance to build on that success in the  I’m sure I’ll see season-best times from many of my team­mates at the meet,” senior Meredith Lierz said.  200-yard back­stroke many times in the past and is  “I’m sure I’ll see season-best times from many of my  end her sea­son with con­tinued suc-cess.  again. “The one event I’m looking most forward to is the 400­yard freestyle relay,” Lierz  
final meet of the regular sea- Freshman Ellie Watson took  looking to con- teammates at the meet.”  Lierz, who  said. “I‘m hoping we can drop  
son tonight against Calvin and  first in both the 200-yard indi­ tinue  her  just returned  more time there before we get  
Alma. In the past few weeks, each individual swimmer and the  vidual medley and 500-yard freestyle last week, but now she wants more.  streak. As this is the final regular  Meredith Lierz Belles senior  from a knee injury last weekend, is  ready for conference.” The Belles will travel to Calvin in Grand Rapids, Mich.  
team  as  a  whole  has  pro- “My goal this weekend is to  season meet for  looking  for  to take on Calvin and Alma at  
gressed, producing  season- get  a  season-best in the 500  the  senior  big  things  6 p.m. tonight.  
best times and finishing in the  freestyle,” Watson said. “It  class, seniors Sara Niemann  from herself and her team- 
lead.  would also be great if I could  and Lierz hope to finish strong.  mates. Last week her return  Contact Megan Finneran at  
The freshman and senior  win both distance events.”  After finishing first in the  came in the form of a first  mfnnera@nd.edu  


page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, January 29, 2010 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Notre Dame heads to ITA Regionals in Ohio 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish return to the courts this weekend as they travel to Columbus, Ohio, to face Tulsa in the first round of the Ohio State regional of the ITA’s National Team Indoor Championships. 
“Tulsa beat us last year 4-2 in a pretty hard-fought match played in Tulsa,” Irish coach Bob Bayliss said. “They have hosted the NCAAs twice in the last few years and have put a great deal of resources and support into tennis.” 
The other first round match-up will be No. 3 Ohio St. against No. 51 New Mexico. The winners of both matches will then play at 
12:30 p.m. Sunday to see who will advance onto the Championships, hosted by Virginia on Feb. 12-15 at the Boars’ Head Sports Club. 
“Goals for the weekend are to advance to the finals and play well there, most likely against Ohio State,” Bayliss said. “The Buckeyes are certainly a formi­dable team, as evidenced by that lofty No. 3 national ranking, but we hope to show that we are bet­ter than last year’s team.” 
In order to adjust for the Buckeyes and their home courts, the Irish have abandoned their own home courts lately. 
“We have been preparing for the quicker courts at Ohio State by practicing at the South Bend Racket Club,” Bayliss said. “We have spent a significant amount of time emphasizing holding the baseline to take away time from the opposition and finishing points at the net.” 
No. 30 Notre Dame opened the 2010 season last weekend with wins over William & Mary and IUPUI while falling to No. 2 Virginia. 
“I think we performed well at times [last] weekend,” Bayliss said. “Against William & Mary we played a bit tight at times, something that is understand­able in the first competition of the year.” 
Last season, the Irish met Tulsa at the National Team Indoor Qualifiers, in Tulsa. Then­No.12 Tulsa defeated the Irish in the opening round of the tourna­ment 4-2, but Notre Dame rebounded on the second day to sweep No. 20 Texas Tech, 4-0. 
Notre Dame has qualified for the ITA National Team Indoor Championships eight times since 1991. Their best showing came in 1992 when they took third, and made back-to-back appear­ances in 2007-2008. 
The Irish look to advance Saturday as they take on Tulsa at 1 p.m. in Columbus. 

Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
ND MEN’S SWIMMING 
Irish host tough competition 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
This weekend, the Irish will square off in their last meet before the Big East Championships next month. 
The Irish, who are receiving votes in the latest CSCAA Top 25 Poll, will match up against Iowa, Denver and Missouri in the Shamrock Invitational Friday and Saturday at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
Missouri and Denver also received votes in the latest poll, but are unranked. 
The Irish are hoping that a recent training trip to Puerto Rico over the holidays will help them in the final month as they pre­pare for the Big East Championships. They will look to rebound after three consecutive losses dropped them to 4-4 on the season. 
They dropped each of their two matches a couple weekends ago, against Michigan State and Louisville, respectively. 
The Irish won six events against the Spartans but it was not enough in a 179-121 loss. Freshmen Bill Bass and Wesley Mullins, junior Michael Sullivan and senior John Lytle all won individual events. Lytle won both the 200-yard individual medley and the 50-yard free. 
The other Irish win came in the 400-yard free relay. Juniors Joshua Nosal and Thomas Van Volkenburg, senior Andrew Hoffman and Bass all competed in the event for Notre Dame. 
The disappointing loss was fol­lowed by a very close defeat the next day for Irish coach Tim Welsh’s squad. They dropped a competitive 166-134 match to conference rival Louisville. The loss gave the Irish a 1-1 confer­ence record on the season. 
Lytle once again was victorious this time in the 100 and 200 free events. Juniors Wesley Villaflor and Nathan Geary and sopho­more Petar Petrovic also picked up victories for the Irish. 
The Irish need every win they can get right now as they attempt to win their fifth Big East title in six seasons. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles hope to break streak atAlma 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s travels to Alma Saturday in hopes of ending a three-game conference losing streak that has dropped the Belles into a three-way tie for third place in conference stand­ings with Adrian and Olivet. 
Despite Alma’s (3-15, MIAA 2-7) poor record, the Belles (10-8, 5-5 MIAA) will need to concentrate heavily on this game and not overlook it. 
“Alma is a good team despite their record,” Belles coach Jennifer Henley said. “At this point in the season, there are no easy games. You have to prove yourself as a team every night you compete — especially in this league.” 
Saint Mary’s will need to focus on the frontcourt during the game as the Scots’ two top scores are both forwards. That means senior Anna Kammrath and company will need to not allow any second chance points inside the paint or allow too many offensive rebounds. 
Saint Mary’s will travel to Alma Saturday for a 3 p.m. tip­off. 
Contact Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 


Friday, January 29, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
ND TRACK & FIELD 

Irish head to two-day meet 
By KAITLYN MURPHY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will travel south to Bloomington, Ind. this weekend to compete in the Indiana Invitational along with 21 other teams. The two-day meet begins Friday. The majority of the first day of competition consists of preliminary rounds of 60-meter sprints and hurdles. 
Saturday’s contests will end the meet with invitational races and relays. All field events on Saturday will also be invitation­al. 
The format of the meet will be key for the Irish, as it is the first two-day meet of the season. Big East Championships are less than a month away, and the Indiana Invitational will help the team prepare mentally and physically for grueling two-day competitions. It is also the team’s first away meet of the season. 
The team will rely on the con­sistent and dominating perform­ance of the Schipper brothers, sophomore Kevin and senior Matt, on the field in the pole vault. This duo has finished in first and second, respectively, in the team’s first two meets of the season. The team will also look to senior Jaclyn Espinoza for her leadership and consistent throws in the shot put. Irish throwing coach Adam Beltran praised Espinoza’s work ethic. 

“Her ability to focus and stay in the zone never ceases to amaze me” Beltran said. 
Espinoza’s stability will be essential to keeping the throw­ers on track during the taxing two-day meet. 
On the track, freshman Nevada Sorenson will look for her third first-place finish of the year in the 60-meter hurdles. Her male counterpart, junior Justin Schneider, is also expect­ed to be a force in the same event. Based on her perform­ances in the first two meets of the season, mid-distance runner senior Joanna Schultz should compete at a high level in both the 400-and 500-meter races. 
With regards to goals for this meet, the team will look to reach more Big East and NCAA provisional qualifying marks. The team has hit two NCAA pro­visional qualifying marks, one set by the sophomore Schipper in the pole vault with a height of 5.20-meters and the other by Schultz in the 400 with a time of 53.82. 
In the beginning of the season, Irish coach Joe Piane identified the long-term goal for the indoor season as “send[ing] as many individual men and women and relay teams as pos­sible to the NCAA tournament.” 
This meet will be a crucial in determining Notre Dame’s place among a competitive line-up of colleges. The first race will start Friday at 3 p.m. and Saturday at 
10:30 a.m. 
Contact Kaitlyn Murphy at kmurph28@nd.edu 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

ND opens in Disney World 
Observer Staff Report 
Big East reigning champion Notre Dame looks to follow up a spectacular 2009 season by traveling to Florida to take on the U.S. National Team in two preseason exhibition matches. 
The Irish will be a part of the 2010 Champion Challenge at Disney’s Wide World of Sports. The Champion Challenge is designed to be a competitive start to the National Team’s preparations for the World Championships in July. 

Though the ninth-ranked Irish will be losing some cru­cial talent including the leg­endary all-time scoring leader Jill Byers at attack along with defender Shannon Burke at the other end of the field, both of whom graduated last spring, their young roster has its share of veteran leadership. Senior Gina Scioscia at attack will lead a squad featuring seventeen underclassmen that likely will catch the conference off-guard when they begin reg­ular season play in February. 
FENCING 
After great start, Notre Dame readies for more 
By KEVIN BALDWIN competition Saturday while fel-Sports Writer low freshman James Choy went 9-6 in the men’s saber. The 
The Irish will take to the piste women’s side featured fresh-again this weekend in the man Abigail Nichols going 12-5 Northwestern Duals in in the saber competition. Evanston, Ill. to take on some of Sunday’s St. John’s Duals put their top rivals from the some of the squad’s veteran Midwest and elsewhere around skill to the test with Harvard the country. Both the men’s and and Penn State challenging the women’s squads will also have Irish in every event. Sophomore the opportunity Gerek Meinhardt at foil and to continue junior Barron what is current-Nydam at saber ly a perfect sea-led the men’s 
“We proved that we 
son following a team in the vic­
can fence against [top
flawless per-tory. formance in competition]. That’s an Sophomore New York last Courtney Hurley 
important message we
week. continued her 
want to send to the
The Irish success from trounced top-top teams.” last week’s tour-ranked Penn nament in the State in the St. North America 
Janusz Bednarski 
John’s Duals on Cup going 9-3 
Irish coach
Sunday, with the men going 16-11 against their top rival while the women claimed a hard-fought 14-13 victory over the Nittany Lions. The men also posted wins against No. 3 Ohio State and No. 4 Columbia on Saturday in their sweep of the NYU Invitational. The women matched their success taking down top challengers No. 4 Columbia and No. 5 Northwestern finishing 10-0 after the first week of intercol­legiate competition. 
“It was a very good tourna­ment, good results we fenced the top teams from the nation, among them national champion Penn State and Ohio State Harvard was also a pretty strong team,” Irish coach Janusz Bednarski said. “We proved that we can fence against them. That’s an impor­tant message we want to send to the top teams.” 
The NYU Invitational featured some new faces on the colle­giate stage with freshman James Kaull on men’s épée earning a 12-5 performance in his first appearance in NCAA 


Kickoff 
continued from page 20 
concern for the Irish. The team was hampered by injuries all through the fall, and no one was quite sure what to expect. 
“The doubles teams really had-n’t played together,” Louderback said. 
But if the girls were having any problems adjusting, they certainly didn’t show it last weekend. In particular, Louderback praised the number two doubles team of senior Cosmina Ciobanu and freshman Chrissie McGaffigan, saying he was impressed with their performance. 
“I was really happy with num­ber two doubles,” he said. 
Ciobanu and McGaffigan won both their matches, winning handily against Wisconsin and pulling out a close one against Iowa. Overall, the team went an impressive 5-1 over the weekend in doubles, with the only loss com­ing at three doubles against Wisconsin, losing a close match, 8-6. 
Equally impressive was Irish number one singles player, sopho­more Kristy Frilling, who handled the Hawkeye’s highly touted No. 
on the day in 
New York in the 
women’s épée while Darsie Malynn and Radmilla Sarkisova had some clutch wins in the women’s foil competition. Juniors Hayley Reese and Sarah Borrman had the performances of the day, coming up big against Penn State in a dramatic comeback victory at saber and foil, respectively 
If the Irish can match the results of last week’s tourna­ment, they will likely be ranked first in the next coaches’ poll. Don’t think that will slow down their drive to succeed, the team has remained focused on the day-to-day practice and to take the season one step at a time. 
“We won against [Ohio State] this weekend but we will have other challengers such as Princeton and North Carolina and matches against Wayne State so we have to watch our rivals after this tournament in New York,” Bednarski said. 
The two-day tournament opens Saturday. 
Contact Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwi@nd.edu 
65 Sonja Molnar. Frilling won in straight sets, 6-0, 6-3. 
The girls know this weekend presents a whole set of new chal­lenges. 
“This weekend, we’ve got tougher matches against some top-40 teams,” Louderback said. “DePaul has a doubles team in the top 10 and North Carolina also has teams ranked ahead of us.” 
The Irish aren’t letting their high ranking go to their heads either, as senior leadership has helped the girls stay humble and hungry. 
“They haven’t [been paying attention to the high-ranking],” Louderback said. “We have three seniors. They’ve been through it. The reality is that it’s nice to be ranked early, but it really doesn’t matter until we play some of these top teams.” 
This weekend presents the first of two matches the girls have set on the schedule against DePaul this year, with a possible third meeting to occur between the teams in the Big East tournament. 
The girls start the weekend off at 3 p.m. on Saturday, and will play at either 9 a.m. or 1 p.m. on Sunday. 
Contact John Helms at jhelms2@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, January 29, 2010 
shoot over a lot of our guards. 
“Their depth got to us, and I turnovers. She’s got a nice three-point shot, 
know we’re frustrated with how Brey said that he may continue 

RutgersBig East 
can put it on the floor, plays 
we shot free throws again to expand his rotation on around the basket. She’ll post up 
continued from page 20 tonight on the road,” Brey said. Satuday after freshmen Joey 
continued from page 20 
small guards.” 

“You’ve gotta turn it around Brooks and Jack Cooley saw us,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw Michael is not the lone threat. 
our margin for error is very, very really quick or you’ll get beat on time in the loss to the Wildcats. said. “I’m not worried so much Junior guard Erica Morrow pro-
thin,” Brey said. “If we don’t Saturday.” Notre Dame had gone just seven about the playing on the road vides support on the wing, while 
fight, we’re going to get beat by Notre Dame missed 11 free or eight players deep in most of because we have a veteran, expe-freshman standout Kayla 
anybody in this league, whether throws and committed an its Big East games this season. rienced point guard that can real-Alexander gives the Syracuse 
it’s Villanova, Syracuse or some-uncharacteristic 14 turnovers in “We’re certainly confident in ly stand the pressure. I’m not as another weapon under the bas-
one below us in the standings. the game. Joey, he’s played some good min-worried about the environment, ket. 
We’ve got a heck of challenge Rutgers may be just the oppo-utes,” Brey said. “He’s emerged just that they’re a really good “They’ve added a great post 
Saturday to see if we can bounce nent for Notre Dame to solve its as someone we can use and we team, and everyone in the Big player in Kayla Alexander,” 
back on the road.” recent problems against, having want to keep getting him reps.” East is tough at home.” McGraw said. “She’s just a fresh-
Notre Dame will look to lost all eight Big East games this The Irish bench also received Syracuse (16-4, 3-4) had a sen-man, but now they have the 
rebound after falling 90-72 to season by at least nine points. more minutes because of foul sational start to the season, finish-inside-outside that they didn’t 
the Wildcats this week. Despite Guard Mike Rosario leads the issues against the Wildcats, with ing its out-of-conference schedule have last year.” 
trailing by just one point at half-Scarlet Knights in scoring, aver-junior guard Ben Hansbrough undefeated in 13 games and Led by junior forward Becca 
time, the Irish were blown out in aging 15.3 points per game. fouling out and Harangody get-breaking into the AP Top 25 rank-Bruszewski’s 10 points, Notre 
the second half by senior Scottie While the Irish defense was ting called for four. ings. Since then the stars have Dame had its way in the post 
Reynolds and Villanova. exposed by Villanova, Rutgers Tip-off Saturday at the Bradley unaligned, and the Orange have against Providence Wednesday 
Senior forward Luke should pose a much easier chal-Center is scheduled for 6 p.m. fallen to eighth in the conference night. While the Syracuse centers 
Harangody scored 21 points and lenge. The Scarlet Knights are rankings. Still, McGraw says they will be a more difficult challenge, 
gathered 10 rebounds in the averaging less than 56 points Contact Michael Bryan at are a much more dangerous team McGraw still expects her rotation 
defeat. per game and almost 16 mbryan@nd.edu than their record suggests. of Bruszewski, junior forward 
“They’ve had a couple of close Devereaux Peters, and senior cen­losses, so I think they’re an excel-ter Erica Williamson to contribute lent team, definitely one of the once again. 
the Irish’s power play, going listed on the injury report most talented,” McGraw said. “Becca’s come along. She’s had 
0-for-4 as Notre Dame could against Nebraska -Omaha “They definitely have a great two good games in a row. Erica 
CCHA 

only muster 27 shots against (12-11-5, 8-10-2-1 CCHA). scoring team, and they’re really Williamson is coming off a really 
continued from page 20 the Lakers’ 46. The Irish In total, Irish skaters have good defensively. They’re just long good game against Providence, so 
have not converted a power missed 51 games this season and athletic. They play a zone we expect to use her quite a bit 
Friday, with junior wing play in their last 10 oppor-due to injuries. similar to what the men’s team defensively,” McGraw said. “I 
Callie Ridderwall notching tunities. “I’m really proud of how plays and it’s really effective.” think the post players are really 
his second hat trick of the “Between penalties and this team’s played over the In addition to the talent they coming alive right now.” 
season in the win. injuries, we’ve had a tough last couple of weekends con-bring on defense, the Orange Tipoff is at 1 p.m. Saturday. 
The Irish picked up anoth-time keeping units togeth-sidering,” Jackson said. boast an offense ranked third in 
er point in a shootout loss er,” Jackson said. “There’s “The team itself is a wound-the Big East in points per game Note: 
Saturday night. been guys playing on the ed warrior. This team is and field goal percentage. • Fifth-year senior guard 
Freshman goalie Mike power play who ’ve never overcoming all kinds of stuff Leading her team with 14.5 points Lindsay Schrader is one of seven 
Johnson kept Notre Dame even practiced it because to compete on a nightly and 7.6 rebounds per game, players who have been added to 
alive with an outstanding 45 we’ve had guys who were in basis, and that ’s all that Nicole Michael directs a transition the 2009-10 State Farm Wade 
save effort in the 1-1 con-the penalty box or guys who matters right now.” offense that looks to catch the Trophy Watch List Thursday. 
test. were injured. When you Notre Dame will play Irish off guard at a moment’s Since 1978, the trophy has been 
“[Johnson] has been the take guys that are power Nebraska-Omaha on Friday notice. awarded to the women’s national 
guy since the end of the first play specialists out of the and Saturday at the Joyce “They’re a challenge. Nicole player of the year in college bas-
half,” Jackson said. “As long lineup, your continuity Center, with the puck-drop Michael, a first-team Big East type ketball. 
he’s playing like he is, he’s changes.” at 8:05 p.m. each night. of player, she is really, really tal­
going to keep getting Notre Dame will struggle ented,” McGraw said. “She’s a big Contact Chris Masoud at 
starts.” with injuries again this Contact Michael Blasco at guard at 6-1, so she can really cmasoud@nd.edu 
Absent in the 1-1 tie was weekend, with five players mblasco@nd.edu 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  
9  10  11  
12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  20  
21  22  23  24  
25  26  27  28  
29  30  31  
32  33  34  
35  36  37  38  39  40  
41  42  43  44  
45  46  47  48  
49  50  51  52  
53  54  55  56  57  
58  59  60  
61  62  63  


Friday, January 29, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 

Across 29Cause for 1 Sony computer weaving, for brand short 5 River of 30Prepare to drive Germany 32See 26-Across 
9 One who worked 35Something to do in a “dismal little twice? cell” 37It may be rolled 
12A-list wannabe 38“Ho, ho, ho,” e.g. 14Georgia border 41Burial place of river Macbeth 15Order in the 42Apportioned, as court medicine 17Blanch 44Noted Bauhaus teacher
18 “Piece” org. 
45“Little Women” 
20 Italy's first 
woman
capital 

46Quick-change 21 Canine warnings artists? 22Taking too much, 4825-Across maker briefly 49Repeated part of 24 With 35-Down, “Deck the Halls” brother of 
51Agrarian 
Master Peter 
concern 25 Stocking stuffer 

53One who saw
26 With 32-Across, 
his name upon
one subjected to 
the stone of a
“incessant 

neglected grave 
torture of remorse” 58Michael who 

28 Org. with wrote “Charmed inspectors Lives” 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

T O R C H  C O C O  A M I  D  
I  T A L O  O L L A  N O V A  
F O R EVE R A N D EVE R  D U A L  
F E E L  H A  I  R  P E N N E  
A S O N E  H A T  
T H  I  N L Y  M A  I  N EVE N T  
V E R D E  S T A L L  R E E  
S L R  EVE L K N  I EVE L  E W E  
E L EVE  L O  I  N S  I  B S E N  
T O R R E N T  P E R T L Y  
S E S  B L A S E  
E P  I  C S  R O A R  S H O E  
B E B E  N EVE R N EVE R L A N D  
R EVE L S  T R E K  A  I  D E D  
O D E S  H E D Y  E N J O Y  

59 It's gross
60 Tannenbaum topper
61 Gradual 
62 On the ___ 
63 Tupolev Tu­
144s, e.g. 
Down 
1 Sung parts, as of carols 2 Trapped, after“in” 3 Optimisticassertion 4 “As You Like It” 
hero 5 Mo. town 6 Kind of rock 7 Ertegun who co-
founded Atlantic Records 8 Club steak, e.g. 9 Emma of fiction 10 1843 work in five “staves” 11 “Super!”12 Pelvic prefix13 Spanish royal 14 U.S.A.F. E-5 16 “And Winter Came …” artist 19 Termite tormentor 22 1970 hit byCrosby, Stills,Nash and Young 23 Suffix with party 26 It's gross 27 Like Santa's bag on Christmas Eve 
29 ___ Perino,George W.Bush's last White House press secretary 
WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Puzzle by Paula Gamache 
31Prime 40Hutch's head, 50“The ___Williams
32Sleigh bells and briefly Christmas
such 42Junot ___, 2008 Album”Pulitzer winner 
33Pirates 52Na+ and Cl– 
for “The Brief 34Iconic flamers Wondrous Life of 53Manage, with Oscar Wao” “out” 
35See 24-Across 
43One with an 54Fancy wrap 36Groundbreaking ancestor: Abbr. 55Protein source invention? 46S O S, e.g. 56Secure 39Foam alternative 47Sported 57Chicago runners 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 pastpuzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 



JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Friday, January 29, 2010 page 20 
FOOTBALL 

OT James headlines final official recruiting visits over weekend 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Editor 
Irish coach Brian Kelly and his staff will host 13 official visitors, including five Notre Dame verbal commits, this weekend in what will be the final major recruiting push before National Signing Day on Wednesday. 
U.S. Army All-American Matt James, an offensive tackle from St. Xavier H.S. in Cincinnati, Ohio, remains one of the top uncommitted players on Notre Dame’s board Irish recruiting analyst Mike Frank said. 
“Matt James is obviously a huge recruit for Notre Dame because they really need another lineman in this class,” said Frank, who runs the ESPN-affiliated Web site irishsportsdaily.com. “[Scouts at the Army All-American Bowl] said Matt James was the best pass protector they saw the entire week down there, and he’s a guy who’s really huge on Notre Dame’s radar, and a guy they really need to land.” 
James will choose between Notre Dame and Ohio State on Wednesday, and how he clicks with Irish offensive line coach Ed Warinner could determine his ultimate decision, Frank said. 
“I was real impressed with [Warinner] and think he’s a really smart, likable guy, so I think he’ll do a good job with Matt this weekend,” Frank said. “When you look across at Notre Dame’s offensive line depth chart, there just isn’t a true left tackle that you can point to. I think with Matt James you can say that. He’s a big kid who moves well and pass protects well.” 
Aside from James and the five Irish commits — athlete Austin Collinsworth, quarterback Andrew Hendrix, tackles Christian Lombard and Tate Nichols and wide receiver Daniel Smith — this weekend’s visitors have been recruited almost entirely by the new staff, which, as Kelly has said, searches for “RKGs,” or the right kind of guys. 
“I think [the coaches] went out to find guys with a fondness for Notre Dame, and I think this is a group of those RKGs coach Kelly likes to talk about,” Frank said. “You’re not just going to make a visit the last weekend of the recruiting season if you don’t have a strong interest in a school.” 
Those players include running back Brandon Bourbon, defen­sive ends Bruce Heggie and Kona Schwenke, safety James Ioane, quarterbacks Luke Massa and Derek Roback, and athlete Danny Spond. 
“It’s a pretty big leap of faith to go visit Notre Dame this week­end,” Frank said. “I think that speaks volumes about how much they’re interested in Notre Dame, and I think that speaks volumes about Notre Dame’s staff and how quickly they were able to get in on some of these kids and get them interested.” 
Many of this weekend’s visitors have the athletic ability to fill in at various positions of need should they choose Notre Dame, Frank said. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Carrying momentum 
Notre Dame continues 

into Big East schedule  
By CHRIS MASOUD  
Sports Writer  
The advantages of playing in  
the Big East are obvious: immedi­ 
ate national exposure and special  
consideration during playoff  
seeding in March. The not-so­ 
obvious disadvantage: playing the  
toughest road schedule in the  
country, a reality the Irish will  
face this weekend as they travel  
to Syracuse.  
Regardless of team allegiance,  
the Carrier Dome is widely held  
as one of the more thrilling envi­ 
ronments college basketball has  
to offer. But for No. 3 Notre Dame  
(18-1, 5-1 Big East), the home of  
the Orange should be downright  
hostile Saturday afternoon.  
“It’s a tough weekend, a tough  
stretch. This is probably the  
toughest weekend of the year for see BIG EAST/page 18  PAT COVENEY/The Observer Junior forward Becca Bruszewski scores two points during Notre Dame’s 84-59 victory over Providence on Wednesday. Bruszewski leads the Irish against Syracuse Saturday night.  

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Irish host ITA Kickoff Weekend 
By JOHN HELMS 
Sports Writer 
After an impressive start to the season against quality Big Ten opponents Iowa and Wisconsin, the No. 6 Irish make their home debut this weekend as they host No. 17 North Carolina, No. 33 Boise State and No. 46 DePaul for the ITA Kickoff Weekend. 
Last weekend, Notre Dame knocked off the Hawkeyes, 6-1 and Badgers, 7-0. The Irish will look to ride that momentum into this weekend, particularly in dou­bles. 
“Doubles last weekend I was really happy with,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. 
Going into the season, the dou­bles performance was the biggest 
see KICKOFF/page 17 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Rutgers provides another test 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
The Irish will try to stop their recent Big East slide Saturday on the road against Rutgers. 
Notre Dame, which has dropped three of its past four, will travel to Piscataway, N.J., in search of a crucial conference win after a loss to No. 3 Villanova Wednesday dropped the team back to 4-4 in Big East play. 
The Scarlet Knights (9-11, 0-8) are floundering at the bottom of the Big East standings, but Irish coach Mike Brey said it will be a tough test for his squad to bounce back from another loss in a hos­tile environment. 
“It doesn’t matter who we play, 
see RUTGERS/page 18 

HOCKEY 
Home series gives ND a chance to move up 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame hosts confer­ence foe Nebraska-Omaha in a crucial pair of games at the Joyce Center this week­end. 
The Irish will need to pick up at least three points to vault fourth -place Lake Superior State in the CCHA rankings; the top four seeds receive a bye in the first round of the conference tournament. 
“I’ve been trying to tell [my team], let’s just focus on the game at hand,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson said. 
“We need to get points every weekend. This team we’re playing is a pretty good hockey team. You look at the [CCHA] standings, there’s six teams in the mix, anywhere from third to tenth. We’re going to have to play our best, considering the circumstances.” 
The Irish (11-10-7, 7-7-6­2 CCHA) come into the series after picking up four points against Lake Superior last weekend. 
The sometimes -anemic Notre Dame offense explod­ed in a 6-1 road victory against the Lakers on 
see CCHA/page 18 





