the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Researchers counter autism with technology 
Staff and students work with children, robots at Notre Dame Center for Families and Children 
By NICOLE TOCZAUER 
News Writer 
She can cheer a touchdown, dance to Michael Jackson’s “Thriller” and play “Simon Says,” but she doesn’t have a heartbeat. 
Meet one of the most recent additions to the Psychology Department’s family, Kelly the robot. 
With two robots named Brian and Kelly, professors are running an innovative study on autism therapy in the Notre Dame Center for Families and Children. 
In what is affectionately known as the Robot Autism Project, professors Joshua Diehl, Charles Crowell and Michael Villano use these interactive humanoid robots to improve therapy for chil­dren with autism. This is an extremely prevalent issue, Diehl said, approximating one person in every 100 people has autism. 
“We know a little about what causes autism, and there’s a lot of focus on understanding it,” he said. “But there’s little focus on how we can effectively help the children by improving the therapies out there.” 
This study is shifting that focus toward technology, Crowell said. He and Villano recognized their opportunity when they saw Aldebran Robotics demonstrating the Nao model robot at a confer-
see ROBOTS/page 4 




Foreign RAs visit for inspiration 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
When a Catholic university in Mexico decided to start a resi­dentialdormprogramforitsstu­dents five years ago — the first suchprograminacountrywhere most students live at home dur­ing college — the university needed an established example of Catholic residential living to learnfrom. 

EnterNotreDame,whichpart­nered with the University of Monterreytohostthreeofitsres­ident assistants (RAs) and an administrator from Wednesday to Sunday, giving them a chance to engage in dorm life and plan ways to bring the Notre Dame spiritbacktoMonterrey. 
“The people here were very welcoming and amiable,” said Hector Campbell, a junior at the 

Morris Inn evacuated; buildings lose power 

University of Monterrey. “We learnedalotofthingstoincorpo­rate little by little. We hope to strengthen our relationship with the university so our residents areinspiredbythis.” 
Astheylearnedaboutresiden­tial life at a Catholic university, the Monterrey visitors packed plentyofactivitiesintotheirfive­dayvisit,includingmeetingswith Office of Residential Life and Housing,StudentAffairs,Campus Ministry and the rectors of the newest dorms, saidErika Garza, Student Life coordinator at the UniversityofMonterrey. 
Meals were also a chance for the group to learn about life at NotreDame. 
“We had activities all day and Notre DameRAshavebeenwith us for all our meals, so we can ask them about what they do,” 
see GUESTS/page 4 



SMC dual degree program grows 
By MEGAN LONEY 
News Writer 
The enrollment in col­lege engineering pro­grams around the nation has reached its highest level in 30 years, accord­ing to the American Association of Engineering Education, and Saint Mary’s College is no exception. The Engineering Dual Degree Program at Saint Mary’s has grown since its establishment in 1977. 
Four students completed the program within a period of 13 years between 1993 and 2006, but most recently, in the three-year period from 2007 to 2010, three stu­dents completed the pro­gram, Dr. Toni Barstis, Saint Mary’s Chemistry professor and engineering program director, said. 
Currently, there are six fifth-year students finish­ing the program at Notre Dame and 25 second 
see ENGINEER/page 6 


ND police apprehends burglars 
Observer Staff Report 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) apprehended two juve­nilesThursday night after finding astolencomputerintheirposses­sion, said Dave Chapman, assis­tantdirectorforNDSP. 
After several thefts recently occurredin dorms, NDSP officers hadbeenlookingforthesuspects. 
“One of our officers saw two subjectswhofitthedescriptionof the people we were looking for,” Chapmansaid. 
In checking the suspects’ back­packs, officers found a stolen computer.Theownerofthecom­puter, who lives in Zahm Hall, was filing a report at the same time,Chapmansaid. 
“Obviously, the theft just occurred right before we stopped them,”hesaid.“Itwasaheckofa jobbytheofficers.” 
Chapmansaidthetwojuveniles were not necessary involved in theotherincidentsandNDSPwill continueinvestigationsintoprevi­ousthefts. 
Chapman asked students to contactNDSPandreportanything theywitnessthatseemsoutofthe ordinary. 
“Iencouragestudentstocallus iftheyseeanysuspiciousactivity,” hesaid. 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Monster Dash raises funds page 3  OK Go rocks campus page 10  Women’s soccer wins page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, October 11, 2010 


THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 


ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Amanda Gray Eric Prister Sam Stryker Kelsey Manning Nicole Toczauer Matthew Robison 
Graphics Scene 
Melissa Kaduck Maija Gustin 
Photo Viewpoint 
Sarah O’Connor Ren Brauweiler 

Q: What is your favorite pickup line? Tom: I lost my puppy. Can you Q: If you could be any Disney help me find it in the motel character, who would you be across the street? and why? 

Tom: I am already the genie from Aladdin. I make people’s 


Q: What is your plan for Fall wishes come true. Break? Tom: visiting the playground at Q: Would you rather eat a plate home to meet new friends. of fried worms or drink a cup 
of toilet water? Tom: Fried worms in toilet water, 

Q: Who is your celebrity crush? on the rocks; shaken, not stirred, Tom: Princess Leia circa New Hope please. 

Tom McKee 

because she’s got that spunk even 
when recording messages on R2-D2. Junior St. Ed’s 

JULIE HERDER/The Observer The Fighting Irish wait in the tunnel Saturday for the Pittsburgh game, ready to lead Notre Dame to victory 23-17 against the Panthers. For more coverage, see the Irish Insider. 
OFFBEAT 

Wedding bells ring in a thelucky07-07-07markedthe him.Theyalsowanthimtobe perfect 10 for couples calendar.Some10-10-10 cou-charged with stealing the 
LAS VEGAS —Churches, ples even chose to take their handcuffs. banquet halls and other wed-vowsat10a.m. TheDailyNewsofLongview dingvenuesacrossthecountry Renee Fletcher, hostess at reports thatEric MitchellLair were extra busy Sunday as the Arch of Reno Wedding wasarrestedOct.1onafelony couples seeking aperfect 10 Chapel, said it was staging warrant. He was handcuffed rushed to tie the knot on a more than 40 weddings on behindhis back, but still was once-in-a-century milestone: Sunday. abletoopenthedoorofthecar Oct.10,2010. MeganPowell,a26-year-old thatwastakinghimtoCowlitz 
InLasVegas—longadesti-who married anightclub and Countyjailandrunoff. nation for weddings —one restaurant operator, saidher Officers from several agen­marriage license bureau Las Vegas wedding was “a cies searched the area but extended its Sunday hours once-in-a-lifetime opportunity couldn’tfindhim,andajudge from 6p.m. to midnight to togetmarriedon10/10/10.” issuedawarrantThursdayfor accommodatetherush.Hotels hisarrestonsuspicionoffirst­and churches in New Police charge man for degreeescape. Hampshire’s Seacoast area stealing handcuffs Policesaythehandcuffsare were bookedlongbefore Oct. LONGVIEW, Wash.—A26-valued at $29, and stealing 
10. year-oldWashingtonstateman them would constitute third­
Wedding-relatedbusinesses managed to escaped from a degreetheft. said the day was perhaps the DepartmentofCorrectionscar most sought-after wedding whilehandcuffed. Information compiled date sinceJuly7, 2007,when Police aren’tjust lookingfor from the Associated Press. 



Know someone chill for Monday’s Icebreaker? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 
IN BRIEF 
Zahia Rahmani of the Institut national d’histoire de l’art will present “An Art Historian in France: Methods and Thoughts” in room 119 of O’Shaughnessy Hall from noon to 1:15 p.m. today. The Nanovic Institute’s Visiting Scholar Seminar welcomes the public to this free lecture. 
James Packer, professor emeritus in the Department of Classics at Northwestern University, will present “Digitalizing Imperial Rome” at 4:30 p.m. today in room 104 at Bond Hall. This lecture investigating a computerized approach to the architectural history of the Roman Imperial Forum is free and open to the public. 
Executive Education’s pro­gram for earning a Certificate in Executive Management begins enrollment today. This will take place in room 161 of Mendoza College of Business and pre-registration is required. Classes will meet 10 times in the fall and 10 times in the spring. 
Dale Ahlquist, president of the American Chesterton Society, will present alecture in honor of the anniversary of 
G.K. Chesterton’s visit to Notre Dame. This free lecture will take place today in room 140 of DeBartolo Hall and is open to the public. 
International students are welcome to come discuss reasearch and study abroad opportunities for spring 2010 in the Montgomery Auditorium in La Fortune from 5:30 to 
6:30 p.m. tomorrow. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 

ToDAY Tonight Tuesday wednesday thursday friday 
LOCAL WEATHER 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 



mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

LOW 52 LOW 52 LOW 47 LOW 43 LOW 45 LOW 40 


Monday, October 11, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



Outage hits Inn, South Dining Hall, West Quad 
said. 

Observer Staff Report 
The source of the problem 

Around 200 guests evacuat-was a water build-up in an ed the Morris Inn and several electrical manhole located campus buildings suffered a north of Keough Hall. In order power outage early Saturday to fix the problem, power was morning after a water build-shut off in five campus build­up caused electrical problems. ings, he said. 
University spokesman The Morris Inn, South Dennis Brown said the Morris Dining Hall, Welsh Family 
Inn  was evacu- H al l,  D unca n  
a t ed arou nd 4: 4 5 a. m. Saturday.  “There was some fickering lights at the  Hall and Keough H al l were affected by the  
“The re  wa s  Morris Inn and there  power outage.  
some flickering li g h t s at the Morris Inn and  was some smoke, and they could smell  B r o wn said the Uni ve rsi t y us ed t he ca m- 
there was some sm oke, a nd  somthing burning.”  pus p ub lic address system  
they sm e ll  could som e- Dennis Brown  to alert people in the affected  
thing burning,”  University spokesman  bui ldings  th at  
he said.  power would be  
O f f i c i a l s  turned off.  

found that the smoke and the Power was turned off burning smell came from a around 7 a.m. and was motor on an air conditioning restored by 10 a.m. in the unit. The unit was turned off Morris Inn, South Dining Hall and guests were allowed to and Duncan Hall. It was return to their rooms after restored in Keough and Welsh five to 10 minutes, Brown Family Halls by around 2 p.m. 



Dash raises funds for charity 
a great chance to become “Rosie Place is the first to 

By MIRANDA PERETTI 
involved in the community. serve this population of med-
News Writer 
Plus, I love running, and ically fragile children in the enjoyed sharing the experience state of Indiana,” Bishop said. 
Even though the course with my friends.” the looked decorated for Senior Lauren Easton, Psi Registration fees and dona-Halloween, the participants in Chi president, met with other tions from Monster Dash have Psi Chi’s “Monster Dash” 5K officers at the beginning of the the potential to benefit more weren’t ghouls and goblins, year to decide on service than 2,000 children, Bishop although some events for the said. were dressed in club. Being a An exact dollar amount of 
“I participated
costumes. cross country the total donation to A Rosie Psi Chi, Saint because I really like runner for Place has not been calculated Mary’s interna-to do races, especially Saint Mary’s, because donations are still tional psycholo-she suggested being received. Easton said 
for a good cause like
gy honor socie-the idea of a 5K she estimates a total of more 
A Rosie Place.” 
ty, held the race. Another than $1,000 raised for the H a l l o w e e n -officer, Leanna charity. themed race Whitney Thiel Perez, recom-“I just wanted to extend a Sunday, com-mended A Rosie tremendous ‘thank you’ to 
sophomore
plete with deco-Place as the everyone who helped out today rations along fund raising — runners, walkers and also the course and optional cos-organization. the volunteers. Everyone had a tumes. The race included more A Rosie Place assists chil-part in making this day a sen-than 250 participants running dren who require feeding sation,” Easton said after the and walking Saint Mary’s tubes, wheel chairs, walkers or race. “We look forward to visit-nature trails. even oxygen, Tieal Bishop, ing A Rosie Place and present-
Psi Chi donated all proceeds O’Hana Heritage Foundation’s ing them with the final dona-to A Rosie Place, a center for executive director, said. tion. We couldn’t have asked medically fragile children. Children are invited to stay in for a more beautiful day and 
“I participated because I the building, which is set up hopefully everyone enjoyed really like to do races, espe-like a house and is hospital themselves out on the course.” cially for a good cause like A certified. O’Hana Heritage Rosie Place,” said sophomore Foundation built this safe Contact Miranda Peretti at participant Whitney Thiel. “It’s haven for children in 2008. mperet01@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Monday, October 11, 2010 


Robots 
continued from page 1 
ence two years ago. After gathering the funds, they asked Diehl to join them, and the study began last fall. 
“The suggestion was includ­ing robot technology in thera­py and observing how it might open doors that might other­wise remain unopened to chil­dren with autism,” Crowell said. 
To do this, Diehl said, they set up a therapy session involving a therapist, a child with an Autism Spectral Disorder (ASD) and the robot. From a room protected by a one-way mirror, a puppeteer controls the behaviors of the robot. 
“The initial idea was that the robot would be an inter­action partner who the child could practice carrying on or initiating a conversation with,” Diehl said. “But there are so many other roles that the robot can take. It can pro­vide encouragement, or it can play different games and work on imitation skills.” 
When a child practices a behavior correctly, Kelly the robot will answer with posi­tive feedback, often in the form of a dance or motion, Villano said. These include “Thriller” and raising the robot’s arms in the air as a “touchdown.” The robot can also be programmed to specifically reflect a study,” Diehl said. 
Yet this study wouldn’t have happened without large col­laborative efforts from the three professors, a team of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s students and the community, Villano said. Each of these components has put forth hard work that has moved the project forward at this light­ning-quick pace. 
“One of the most important things that we have is a group of students that are amazing that have given so much to the project,” Diehl said. “They’ve made major intellec­tual contributions to the development and institution of the project.” 
Some of these students include Notre Dame graduate student Karen Tang, junior Margaret Millea, junior Kristen Uhland and Brynn Thomas, who is a senior at Saint Mary’s. Thomas joined the study after taking a class based around autism. 
“I have a sister with high-functioning autism, so when Professor Diehl came into the class to talk about his research study, I thought it was interesting,” she said. “So I asked him how I could be a part of it and got involved in this.” 
Millea said she asked Diehl during office hours, and the project has been very reward­ing. 
“Autism in general is an interesting field. There’s just so much we don’t know,” she said. “I like that Professor Diehl 

c h i l d ’s i n t e r -e s t s a n d encourage him o r h e r w i t h  “Autism in general is an interesting field. There’s just so much  f o c u s e s o n t h e strengths of the kids rather than their deficits.”  
related  move- we don’t know.”  N o t r e  D a m e  
ments.  and Saint Mary’s  
“ O v e r t h e s u m m e r, o n e kid really liked  Margaret Millea junior  s t u d e n t s h a v e a c t u a l l y d o n e the majority of  
swimming and  the robot’s pro- 
t h e  m o v i e  g r a m m i n g ,  

‘Shrek,’” Villano said. “So Villano said. Other ways they we’d have it do swimming work on the project include motions for encouragement acting as the therapist or and it would talk about puppeteer in the sessions. Shrek.” Diehl said some of these stu-
But this robot isn ’t your dents will work as interns on average toy -store robot, the project next summer. Crowell said. In just playing “We have a road map. In “Simon Says,” the robot uses late fall or early second complex programs to detect semester this year, we’re movement, answer the child’s going to collect another set of requests and mimic actions. pilot data,” he said. “By next 
“It’s about two feet tall and summer, we’re going to go is packed with a lot of tech-full-tilt-boogey and we have nology. Just like a real funding for a couple of stu­human, it has senses, ” he dents to work with us.” said. “It has cameras that They are always looking for allow vision, voice synthesis talented students interested mechanisms for speech, and in contributing to the ASD other sensors like sonar, as community from all areas of well as a touch sensitive part expertise, Diehl said. In the of its head.” end, it’s about what can be 
Since its beginning, the done for the children with three professors agree the autism. project has taken off rapidly. “This is bringing technology 
“It’s gone very quickly from to a problem that effects very a pipe dream to a full-blown real people,” Villano said. 
“The applied side of this is  Guests  and authority.”  
r e w a r d i n g b e c a u s e w e ’ r e  Garza said she picked up some  
i m p a c t i n g t h e s e f a m i l i e s ’  very concrete tips from her  
lives.”  continued from page 1  Notre Dame visit.  
Crowell agreed and added  “Many of the campus activities  
that the Center for Families  said Armida Lopez, a junior  at work because they’re free. The  
and Children is a vital aspect  the University of Monterrey.  residents don’t have to pay any- 
of the community now.  Before leaving campus  thing,” she said. “Dorms should  
“Dr. Diehl is probably too  Sunday, the visitors attended  a put most things to a vote so that  
modest to point this out, but  Notre Dame football game —  an residents feel involved in deci­ 
this center offers a variety of  experience they said they we re sions.”  
services to the community,”  anticipating all week, especia lly One thing not be up for  
he said. “So we are fortunate  after feeling the energy on ca m-debate, however, is penalties for  
to have this center as part of  pus Friday and Saturday.  rule infractions, Garza said.  
t h e Un iv e r si t y, p ar t o f t h e  “We’ve seen very little ki ds “There has to be a sense of  
Psychology Department and  and also very old people wi th importance to the sanctions,”  
part of the community.”  that passion for Notre Dame ,” Garza said. “We want rules  
Even without being part of a  Garza said. “The love for Not re about alcohol [and other discipli­ 
center, anyone can make an  Dame has no age.”  nary issues] to be successful.”  
effort to support people with  Although the visitors said th ey The Monterrey visitors said  
autism. Villano, as an assis­ admired Notre Dame’s reside n-they also want to bring home  
tant Scout Master for a Boy  tial life, differences between t he another unique aspect of Notre  
Scout troop with two autistic  two universities will make dor m Dame’s campus culture: its spiri­ 
members, has seen this out- life at Monterrey a distinct exp e­tuality.  
s i d e o f t h e s t u d y a nd s a i d  rience.  “We don’t have anything like  
patience is key in developing  The University of Monterrey  is the Grotto, but we’d like to  
communication.  only 41 years old, and its re si­incorporate more spirituality,”  
“ T h e y s o m e t i m e s w i l l b e  dential program is barely old er Lopez said. “It’s amazing that  
a l o o f o r s h o u t a t y o u , b u t  than Notre Dame’s Duncan Ha ll. students here still go to Mass  
patience goes a long way,” he  Only 420 of the university ’s and pray at the Grotto without  
said. “The interaction may be  12,000 students live on campu s, their parents telling them.”  
unusual, but you can try to  compared to 80 percent of Not re The Monterrey group said  
i n t e r a c t i n w a y s t h a t a r e  Dame undergraduates. The un i-they enjoyed their visit so much  
meaningful to them.”  versity also only has two dorm i-that they are already planning  
This project has become a  tories — one for men and o ne ways to come back to campus.  
meaningful way to interact  for women — connected by  a Garza said she wants to spend a  
wi t h th e chi ldren, Cro we ll  garden, sharing one chapel a nd month at Notre Dame during the  
said. A child with autism is  with no inter-dorm visitation.  summer working with the Office  
more drawn to the physical  “There are plenty of comm on of Residence Life and Housing,  
world because of a lack of  areas on the rest of campus ,” and the students said they hope  
social skills. The robot then  Garza said.  that the partnership between  
acts as a bridge between this  While Notre Dame already h as the two universities grows —  
physical world and a more  a long and rich dorm histor y, including a possible trip by  
human world for the child.  Lopez said, at the University  of Notre Dame students to  
“We have this device that  Monterrey, “we are still creati ng Monterrey.  
has an object nature as well  that history.”  The Monterrey visitors also  
a s a s i m u l a t e d h u m a n  Lopez and the other visito rs visited Loyola University in  
nature,” he said. “Now there  had plenty of ideas for creati ng Chicago after they left Notre  
is a way to probe a child who  their campus’ own traditions  — Dame for a further example of  
wo ul d b e attr ac t ed to t h i s  ideas gleaned from their obse r-residential life at a Catholic uni- 
object and bring them to the  vations of Notre Dame reside n­versity. As they left campus  
h u m a n r e a l m b e c a u s e i t  tial living and from advice giv en Sunday, they left a message for  
b eh av es li ke a hu ma n an d  by Notre Dame’s rectors a nd the Notre Dame students and  
can emulate human behav­ resident assistants.  administrator: “Thank you, and  
iors.”  “I learned that students form  a Go Irish!”  

Contact Nicole Toczauer at ntoczaue@nd.edu 
sense of dorm identity through activities,” Lopez said. “For RAs, there’s a line between friendship 


Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 


Monday, October 11, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 5 page 6 The Observer  NEWS Monday, October 11, 2010 



Engineer 
continued from page 1 
through fourth-year students in the program. The number of first-year students who have shown an interest is about 17, Barstis said. 
“We are increasing the number of female students in each graduating engineering class at Notre Dame by 10 percent,” Barstis said. 
Barstis attributes part of the growth of the program to her collaborative efforts with Cathy Pieronek, Assistant Dean of Academic Affairs and Director of the Women’s Engineering Program in the College of Engineering, to promote the program, advise students and provide support through the Society of Women Engineers (SWE). Other key factors were the support of the students for each other as well as the growing awareness of young women for the opportunities in the science, technology, engineering and mathemat­ics fields, otherwise known as STEM fields. 
The Engineering Dual Degree Program is designed as a five-year joint program through Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame in which stu­dents earn a bachelor’s degree from Saint Mary’s in four years and finish their fifth year at Notre Dame with a second bachelor’s degree of science in engineering. 
The majority of students enrolled in the program major in mathematics — computational or standard — or chemistry; however, one student majored in philoso­phy, Barstis said. 
Junior Taylor Chamberlain, a chemistry and chemical engineering major, said she was drawn to the program for the opportunity of a small college experience while offering the engineering major available at larger universities. 
Chamberlain believes the growth in the program has to do with the changing atti­tudes of women towards engineering. 
“I think you have to take into consideration that more women in general are realiz­ing that, yes, engineering is something they can do and enrollment is up for engi­neering programs across the country,” Chamberlain said. “It’s just more noticeable with [Saint Mary’s] because we are a much smaller pro­gram. Where six to 10 more girls might go unnoticed in a larger school, four to five is a big deal for us.” 
Not all students who ini­tially show interest in the program complete it fully, but those statistics are not yet available, according to Barstis. 
After being encouraged as second-and third-year stu­dents to explore the engi­neering field through class­es, a few students who find they are not passionate about engineering decide to leave the program. A small­er number of students are unable to continue with the program due to insufficient grades. 
“Due to the amount of work required to earn two degrees from two institu­tions, it is simply too much unless the student is 100 percent dedicated and com­mitted to the program,” Barstis said. 
The course load for the program is intense as the students are working for two bachelor degrees. 
“I think probably the most challenging part of the pro­gram is the class schedule,” Chamberlain said. “In order to finish two technical sci­ence degrees in five years, we have to take a lot of classes very close together that might have usually been more spaced out.” 
The Engineering Dual Degree program’s success may be another reason for the growing interest — 99 percent of the students who reach their fourth year in the program graduate con­tinue the program to gradu­ate from Notre Dame with a 
B.S. in Engineering. One hundred percent of students of the program have obtained a job within the first few months of gradua­tion, Barstis said. 
Mary Zahm, a 2010 Saint Mary’s graduate who is cur­rently continuing her educa­tion at Notre Dame, is not surprised that the program is growing. 
“It’s a gem of a program,” Zahm said. “It’s great that other girls are learning about it and seeing it as an opportunity for them to pur­sue their interest in engi­neering.” 
Chamberlain agreed. 
“It’s truly an amazing pro­gram and we’re all glad that it’s growing the way it is,” Chamberlain said. 
Contact Megan Loney at mloney01@saintmarys.edu 



Death row inmate seeks DNA tests 
Associated Press 
LIVINGSTON, Texas — An ex-con sentto Texas’ death row for three murders and spared from execution earlier this year by the U.S. Supreme Court is set to take his case before the high court, which may decide whether his attorneys can test items for DNA he claims could provehisinnocence. 
Hank Skinner was convicted ofpummelinghis girlfriend with a pickax handle and stabbing her two sons on New Year’s Eve in 1993 in their Texas Panhandle home. DNA evidence at his trial showed blood on his clothing from that night was his andfrom at least two of the vic­tims. 
The Supreme Court will hear arguments Wednesday on whetherprisoninmatesmayuse a federal civil rights law to get DNA testing that was not per­formed before their conviction. Prosecutors in Skinner’s case have refused to make some evi­dence available for DNA testing, including knives from the scene and a jacket next to one of the bodies. 
The arguments come seven months aftertheSupremeCourt spared Skinner just an hour beforehewastogoto thedeath chamber.Justicessaidthenthey wanted to postpone his execu­tion until they decided whether toreviewhiscase. 
“The relief Mr. Skinner seeks issimpleandlimited:theoppor­tunity to obtain access to physi­cal evidence for the purpose of conducting DNA testing,” Rob Owen, a University of Texas law professor and Skinner’s lead attorney, said in a brief to the highcourt. 
Gray County District Attorney LynnSwitzerhasrefusedtosur­render the items and lower courts agreed with her, saying Texas law already gave Skinner “plenty of opportunity” to show additional testing could prove hisinnocence. 
Skinner, a former convicted car thief and parole violator, was trying to “game the sys-tem,”Switzersaid. 
Prosecutors have said there’s no evidence to conclusively prove Skinner wasn’t the killer and that ample evidence exists to show he is guilty. They also contend new DNA testing “would not affirmatively prove anything.” 
“They’re fixing to kill me for something I didn’t do,” Skinner, 48, said last December from a tiny visiting cage outside death row as his execution date neared. 
To head off the scheduled March execution, his legal team renewed its appeals seeking releaseofevidencefornewDNA testing. 
Since the Supreme Court jus­tices agreed to look at the case, the high court ruled in a DNA-related case from Alaska that convicts have no constitutional right to test genetic evidence to trytoshowtheirinnocence.The court said it would not second-guess states or force them rou­tinely to look again at criminal convictions. 
Attorneys for Switzer, citing that case, argued in court briefs that Skinner’s lawyers hoped to get federal district courts involved in “second-guessing the decisions of state courts” under state DNA statutes. They also noted his trial lawyer chose not to test items Skinner now wants access to, and that using the civilrightslawwasan improper attempt to circumvent other appealsalreadyrefused. 
Switzer has the backing of attorneys general from nearly two dozen states, who filed a briefonherbehalf. 
“He seeks a judge-crafted remedy that he hopes will be more favorable to him,” the attorneysgeneral’sbriefsaid. 
Similarly, the National District Attorneys Association urged the justices to reject Skinner’s argu­ment, saying a ruling favorable to him would undermine state law, expand federal jurisdiction over state matters and delay resolutionofcapitalcases. 
At his trial in 1995, Skinner’s jury heard evidence he was in the house where his girlfriend, Twila Jean Busby, 40, and her two sons, Elwin “Scooter” Caler, 22, and Randy Busby, 20, were killed. Besides the blood on his clothing, Skinner’s bloody hand printswerefoundinthehouse. 
Skinner doesn’t deny being in thehomeatthetimeoftheslay­ings, but insisted he couldn’t have killed them because he was passed out from a mix of vodkaandcodeine. 
Skinner explained that Caler, who had several stab wounds, likely bled on him while trying toroustSkinnerfromhisdrunk­en stupor. And he said he was lying on a couch just a few feet from where Twila Busby was bludgeoned, likely accounting forherblood. 
Police were summoned when Caler staggered to the front porch of a neighbor’s home. Officers followed a 3½-block­long blood trail to the trailer of awoman Skinner knew. He was foundtherehidinginacloset. 
Firecracker causes 



L.A.areaexplosion 
Associated Press 
SAN PEDRO, Calif. — A large firecracker caused a blast near a Los Angles-area harbor that sent police scram­bling to evacuate the neigh­borhood and order bomb squads into a hotel parking garage early Sunday, authori­ties said. 
An M-80 explosive device went off at around the same timeanSUVwasvandalized in the area, said Los Angeles Police Deputy Chief Michael Downing. Investigators initial­ly thought the vehicle was the source of the blast. 
The bomb squad sent in robots, and officers through­out the area were placed on alert, but investigators now believe it likely was not a bomb that broke the window and created a small hole in the door of an SUV, Los Angeles Police Lt. John Romero said. 
A caller reported hearing a blast at 7:30 a.m. in a com­mercial area of San Pedro. A short time later a patrol offi­cer with the Port Police dis­covered the damaged Lincoln Navigator in the underground garage of the Clarion Inn. 
Investigators found debris away from the SUV that helped them determine the blast was a firecracker, police said. 
“On closer inspection and using their training, bomb squad is confident the damage was caused by something other than a bomb. Based on what we know now, they’re scaling the operation way back,” Romero said. 
Downing said investigators ruled out any connection to terrorism. No arrests were made. 


Monday, October 11, 2010 The Observer  INTERNATIONAL NEWS page 7 
HUNGARY 

Factory apologizes for caustic spill 
Associated Press 
KOLONTAR — The owners of the metals plant whose reservoir burst, flooding sev­eral towns in western Hungary with caustic red sludge, expressed their condo­lences Sunday to the families of the seven people killed, as well as to those injured —and said they were sorry for not havingdonesosooner. 
MAL Rt., which owns the alumina plant in Ajka, also saidit was willing to pay com­pensation “in proportion to its responsibility” for the damage causedbythedeluge. 
But the trouble may not be over. 
With the northwest corner of the storage pool still show­ing a hole 50 meters (yards) wide where the mix of mud and water broke through last week, officials said the col­lapse of at least one of the breachedwallswasinevitable. That, they said, would proba­bly unleash a new deluge of toxic matter that could ooze a half-mile (1 kilometer) to the north, wreaking further havoc. 
That would flood parts of the town nearest the plant ­one of those alreadyhit by the industrial waste Oct. 4 -but stop short of the next town to thenorth. 
Environmental State SecretaryZoltanIllessaidthat recently discovered cracks on the northern wall of the reser­voir at the alumina plant have temporarily stopped widening because of favorable weather conditions but will continue to expand,especiallyatnight. 

Disaster agency spokesman Tibor Dobson said engineers didn’t detect any new cracks overnight Saturday, and the older cracks were being repaired, but it was too soon to consider lowering the state ofalert. 
Protective walls were being built around the reservoir’s damaged area to hold back further spills. And a 2,000­foot-(620-meter-) long dam that will be between 4 and 5 meters (yards)highwas under construction to save the areas of the town of Kolontar not directlyhitbylastweek’stoxic flood. 
“I would describe the situa­tion as hopeful, but nothing has really changed,” Dobson told The Associated Press. “The wall to protect Kolontar is planned to be finished by tonight, but it will likely be several days before residents maybeabletomoveback.” 
Nearly all of Kolontar’s 800 residents were evacuated Saturday, when Prime Minister Viktor Orban said the northwall of the massive stor­age pool -which is 24.7 acres (10 hectares) in size -was “very likely” to collapse because cracks that had appearedatseveralpoints. 
The roughly 6,000 residents of neighboring Devecser, just north of Kolontar, were told by police Saturday to pack a single bag and get ready to leaveatamoment’snotice. 
“This hasn’t changed,” Dobson said. “We are still on guard in case of any more spills.” 
Illes said that, since it would be impossible to transfer the 
2.5 million cubic meters (568 million gallons) of red sludge still in the damaged reservoir anywhere else,he had set a2­month deadline for closing up thehugeopening. 
“The hole is 50 meters (yards) wide and 23 meters high,” Illes said. “The job, includingpouring enough con­crete to raise three 10-story buildings, willhave to be done from the air. This is unprece­dented.” 
Red sludge is a byproduct of the refining of bauxite into alumina, the basic material for manufacturing aluminum. Treated sludge is often stored in ponds where the water eventually evaporates, leaving behind a largely safe red clay. Industry experts say the sludge in Hungary appears to have been treatedinsufficient­ly, if at all, meaning it remainedhighlycaustic. 
Illes, commenting to reporters during a tour of the affected villages and the dam­aged reservoir, confirmed that the red sludge stored in Hungarian reservoirs had not been treated to reduce its alkalinity. 
CHILE 



Miners prepare for journey back to surface 
Associated Press 
SAN JOSE MINE — A smooth-walled path to daylight awaited 33 trapped miners Sunday as they entered the tense final hours of a two­monthodysseychristenedinthe terror of collapsing rock deep underaChileanmountain. 
With the eyes of the world on Chile’sno-expense-sparedeffort to ensure all the men emerge unharmed, the miners’ physical and mental health was being fastidiously monitored. Precautions were taken against all manner of complications ­aspirin to prevent blood clots, a special drink to settle the stom­ach, video monitors to watch forpanicattacks. 
And officials said the men were so giddy with confidence they were squabbling on Saturday, the day drills broke through to them, over who would get to be the last to take a twisting, 20-minute ride the half-mile up to a rock-strewn desert moonscape and into the embraceofthosetheylove. 
A tentative but secret list was drafted of which miners should come out first when the extrac­tion begins, probably on Wednesday. But HealthMinister Jaime Manalich said the other­wise cooperative miners were so sure of the exit plan that they were arguing about sequence. 
“They were fighting with us yesterday because everyone wanted to be at the end of the line, not the beginning,” he told reporters. 
Manalich told The Associated Press that a few had volun­teered in conversations among themselves to go up first. But none had volunteered publicly, hesaid. 
“I think they’re more excited than scared or nervous,” Brandon Fisher, president of Center Rock Inc., the Pennsylvania company that made the hammer-style drill heads that created the opening for the rescue, told AP. “That first guy up might be a little nervous,though.” 
The final order will probably be determined by two para­medics, one from the Navy and onefromtheCodelcostatemin­ing company, who will be low­ered into the mine to prepare the men for their journey in a rescue capsule built by Chilean navalengineers. 
Over the past week, all the miners underwent tests to assess their health. Manalich said officials were concerned about acute hypertension in some of the miners as well as the opposite -sudden drops in blood pressure -in others because of the speed of the ascenttothesurface. 


The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 8 Monday, October 11, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Gleek convert 

I’mnotgoingtolie.Iwasreluctantto jumpontheGleebandwagonwhenthe show’spopularityskyrocketedlastfall.I hadseenthepilotmonthsbeforethefall premier,andwhileIwasamusedbythe show’sbasically ridiculousprem-Kristen Durbin ise,Ireallywasn’t surehowIfelt 
News 

Production TV’sfirstforay Editor intothecultish, campyworldofshowchoir. Mythreeyearsasasinger-dancerin WheelingHighSchool’sNewDawns showchoirimmersedmeintoastrange, hairspray-soakedrealmofvocally trainedteenagersthatseemsentirely foreigntooutsiders,soIhopedthatGlee wouldaccuratelyconveyallofthe quirkyintricaciesofshowchoirtothe masseseventhoughIknewIwasprob­ablysettingmyselfupfordisappoint­ment. Icontinuedtoresistthetemptationto indulgemycuriosityforthefirstfew monthsoftheyear,butoncemyfellow formershowchoirmembersbeganto raveabouttheshow,Ifinallyallowed myselftowatchafewisolatedepisodes withmyfriendslastThanksgiving.At thispoint,teenpregnancy,conniving wivesandwannabedivashadpenetrat­edtheshow’splot,soneedlesstosay,I wasconfused.WhowasQuinnFabray’s babydaddy?WhywasTerriSchuester lyingtoherattractive,talentedhusband (andhereIadmittomycrushonWill Schuesterandhisperfectlycoiffed hair)?Mycuriositygrewandgrewwith eachsceneinspiteoftheshow’sinaccu­raciesinportrayingthecultofshow choir. Myperfectionisminterferedwith thesejuicyburningquestionsandraised severalpointsofcontention:greatshow choirshaveatleastfiftysinger-dancers! Theycan’tlearnthatmanysongsina week!Theyneedaprofessionally trainedchoreographer!It’scalledshow choir,notgleeclub!Songsdon’thaveto revolvearoundsoloists!There’snoway almosteverysongcanparallelRachel Berry’slifesoclosely!Realshowchoir competitionshavemorethanthree competitors! Ultimately,thesenitpickyqualms provedineffectualagainstthemagnetic gripofGlee,itsoverproducedrenditions ofpopulartunesandthejuicydrama surroundingitscharacters.Iwascom­pelledtowatchtheentirefirstseason overthecourseoftwolazysummer weeks.Theshow(andSueSylvester’s scathingjabsatMr.Schue’sshinylocks) evencaughtmy18-year-old,athletically inclinedbrother’sattention.Atthis point,IknewGleewasauniquemorsel ofpopculturethatwasworthkeeping upwith. EventhoughIstillconsciouslynote theshow’sflawsandgrosslyexaggerat­eddepictionofhighschoolandlifein general(read:JohnStamosasaden­tist?Yeah,right.),I’mproudtobea Gleek.Ithoroughlyenjoyedbeingblast­edbacktomythird-gradepastduring theBritneySpears-themedepisode,and Ibondwithmyfloormatesaboutthelat­estgossipsurroundingRachel,Finn, QuinnandtherestoftheGleegang. Asaconvertedskeptic,Isincerely hopethattheremaininghaterswatchat leastoneepisodeofGleebeforecom­pletelyrulingoutthemostentertaining showonT.V.Youmayjustfindyouhave anewguiltypleasuretolookforwardto onTuesdaynights. 
aboutnetwork 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Kristen Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 

The saints among us 

Inmyfirstthreecolumns,Ispenttime callingoutpeople—freshmen—tonot plagueourcampuswithirregularbehav­ior,dininghallgoerstogettheiract togetherandthefootballteamtoliveupto theirpledgeof alwaysgiving100 
Kevin Kimberly 
percent.Iintend todothesame 

Bursting the
herebutinadif-
Bubble

ferentlight,one notintendedto makeyoulaughbutoneintendedtomake youthink. 
Unlessyouhavebeenhidingundera rock,youhaveheardaboutthecanoniza­tionofAndréBessettethisupcoming Sunday,Oct.17.Now,beforeyouwritethis offasanotherarticleorproclamationof theCongregationofHolyCross’firstsaint, bearwithme.Let’smaketheissueamore relevantone,whetheryoubelieveasa CatholicorJew,MuslimorProtestant,or havenobeliefatall. 
Toquicklyrecap,societysawBlessed BrotherAndréasessentiallyuseless.He wasbornwithpoorhealth,whichfollowed himthroughouthislife.Helostbothofhis parentsbytheageof12andbecamean orphan.Hehadlittletonoeducation, droppingoutofschoolaroundsixthgrade barelybeingabletowritehisname.And hisbiggestofficialjobinlifewasthatofa porter,whichisbasicallyadoorman. 
Soundlikethetypicaldescriptionfora saint?Probablynotthebestone.Butwhat hedidwasmoreimportantthanany descriptionofwhohewas,andwhathe didwasservewitheveryounceofdedica­tionandlovehehadwithinhim.Hisjob wastodirectpeoplearrivingatthedoor, butwhathemadeofthatjobbecame muchgreaterthananythingelse. 
Takeamoment,stop,andlookaround. Chancesareyouarereadingthisinthe dininghall,LaFortuneorsomepublic place.Seeanyfamiliarfaces?Probablyso. Howmanyofthesepeoplewouldyoucon­sidersaintlike?Probablynotmany.But haveyoueverstoppedtothinkabouttheir service?Sure,whattheyaredoingis,in fact,partoftheirjob,butthecommitment theyhaveisoutstandingattimes.Itis sometimesjustthesmileandquestionof howyouaredoingonabadday;other timesitistheimmensehelptheyprovide whentryingtosolveanotherproblem. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
Manytimes,though,theseamazingthings peopledoforusgounnoticed. 
SoIamtakingthisopportunityto‘call out’thosepeoplewho,inmyfouryears hereatNotreDame,havestruckmeas everydaysaints.WhetherIcameintocon­tactwiththemonce,manytimesorstill do,Ihavealwayswitnessedthesepeople servinganddoingtheirjobwiththeulti­matededication. 
NancyWalsh,studentgovernmentoffice secretary:Nancycouldbrightenupsome­one’sworstdayandishandsdownoneof thefriendliestpersonsIhaveevermet. Sheisalwayswillingtohelpwithwhatev­erisneeded,isalwaysupforatalk,and trulyenjoysherwork. 
CassandraandLinda,NorthDiningHall: Thesetwoladiesmakethosescrumptious pizzasyouenjoyatNorthDiningHall,and besidesmakingtheperfectpizza,theyare twoofthenicestladiesonthiscampus.I havealwaysbeenstruckbytheirgreat personalitiesandappreciatetheirkind­ness. 
RhondaSingleton,administrativeassis­tantforthepsychologydepartment:Ihave cometoknowMs.Rhondaovertheyears andneveroncehasshenotcompletely helpedmeoutwithanyacademicissues forpsychologyclasses,creditsorresearch. SheisagreatpersonandIamluckythe departmentformymajorincludesher. 
NancyMcAdams,associatedirectorof theEducation,SchoolingandSociety Minor:ThoughIhavenevermether,Ms. Nancyhashelpedmeeverysemester withoutquestioningettingmycredits scheduled.Throughseverale-mailstrying tosiftthroughtheacademicguidelines, shehasalwaysmadesureeverything workedoutforme. 
DayneCrist:ImaynotknowDayneCrist personally,butIthinkhischaracter speaksforitself.AstheNotreDamequar­terback,Iimaginehehasenoughonhis plate;addinclassesandlife,andheis probablyonoverload.Yethestillfindsitin himtodonatetime,money,andhairto charitieslikeSt.Baldrick’sandtheRiley HospitalforChildren(DanceMarathon). 
SouthDiningHallswipersanddoor monitors:Someofmyfavoritepeopleon campusfallunderthiscategory,andthat isbecausetheirsincerityisamazing. Everysmileandwishforagreatdayare saidwiththemostmeaning,andIhave beentouchedbytheirnever-endingserv­ice. 
StudentworkersatWaddick’s:Ihave alwaysnoticedthatthestudentworkersat Waddick’saresomeofthebestandmost personableoncampus.Besidesputtingup withtheinterestingthingsanyfoodservice jobbringswithasmile,theydoanexcel­lentjobrunningoneofthemostpopular eateriesoncampus. 
HarvHumphrey,coordinatoroflectors attheBasilica:SinceIstartedlectoringin theBasilicamysophomoreyear,Ihavenot metamoreorganizedmanoncampus. Everythinghedoesistoatee,anditis impressive.TosayHarvisdedicatedisan understatement. 
Pam,Reckers:IhavecometoknowMs. PamthroughthemanylatenighttripsI havemadetoReckers,andbesidesmak­ingthebesttastingsnacksforstudying, sheisgreattotalktoandveryfunny. Thesestudybreakshavebeensomeofmy favoritesovertheyears. 
Professors,friends,rectors:Thereare severalpeoplethatfallunderthesecate­goriesthatIshouldmentionbutdonot havethespaceto.Thesepeoplearecer­tainlyoneswecomeintocontactwith everyday.Forme,youknowwhoyouare, andIappreciateeverything,smallorbig, thatyouhavedoneforme. 
BrotherAndré’sexamplereallybrings homethepointthatitdoesnotmatterin whatcapacityoneservesinorwhatjob theymayhold(professionalorpersonal), theopportunitytoimpactsomeone’slifeis alwaysavailable.MaybetheChurchisnot declaringthesepeople(andmanyothersI havenotmentioned)forsainthood,butin someway,eachpersonlistedabovehas mademydayortouchedmeinsomeway. You,too,couldbeasaintinsomeone’slife orforsomeone’sday.Neverunderestimate thepowerofyouractions.Whowould haveeverthoughtadoormanwouldbe thenextdeclaredsaint?Iamnotsure evenBrotherAndréthoughtso. 
Kevin Kimberly is a senior majoring in psychology and political science. He is eligible to run for president in 2024 and welcomes campaign slogans and ideas at kkimberl@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“But in the end one needs more courage to live than to kill himself.” 
Albert Camus French philosopher 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Selfishness is not living as onewishes to live. It is asking others tolive as one wishes to live.” 
Oscar Wilde Irish novelist 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Monday, October 11, 2010 page 9 
There but for the grace of God go I 
As Notre Dame’s and Saint Mary’s gay and lesbian alumni gathered in South Bend earlier this month to honor friends and champions like Sr. Mary Louise Gude, an instrument of hope, and Lt. Col. Victor Fehrenbach, a hero’s hero, I 
Lance Gallop
could not help but be struck by the 
Guest
vast divide 

Columnist
between the “haves” and the “have nots” in the LGBT community. Those gathered seemed one-and-all to be strong, well-adjusted, loving and well-loved. Yet each and every one of us was only able to stand there because, in a very real sense, we overcame the obstacles that were placed against us. Somehow, by the grace of God, many of us did this alone. 
Now we seem to hear every few days of a teenage life ended by despair over real or perceived sexual orientation. (And to those who think this is just a “gay prob­lem,” please note I said “real or per­ceived.”) I think you can understand what I mean by a divide. 
Maybe Domer’s and SMCer’s are made of much sterner stuff than the average teenager — but I really doubt it. The land mines in the way of each and every queer 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 


‘Coming Out Day’ 
Dear Notre Dame community, 

In honor of “National Coming Out Day,” we, the Core Council for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual and Questioning Students, invite you to stop by our tables today in LaFortune Student Center and North and South Dining halls. In observance of this day we offer you the opportunity to meet some of our Core Council members and allies, sign our Ally Pledge banner and pick up an Ally pin. 
To all members of the Notre Dame family, we thank you for your continued support of our outreach through educational, social and spiritual programs, and for all of your efforts in helping to create a safe and wel­coming place for all people, regardless of sexual orientation, especially in light of the recent tragedy affecting the Rutgers com­munity. 
Sincerely, 

Sr. Sue Dunn Rachel Washington Karl Abad Tanya Barrios Brandon Buchanan Fr. Joseph Carey Maureen Lafferty, Ed.D. Adrian Lopez Medina Scott Mitchell Matt Momont Heather Rakoczy Russell David Rivera 
members Core Council Oct. 7 

youth, even today, would make a grown man blanch. Consider that 90 percent will experience harassment from peers and “friends.” One third of all successful sui­cide attempts are made by LGBT youth and half of all transgender persons will attempt suicide at least once. 
The Center for American Progress reports that as many as 40 percent of the 
1.6 million homeless kids on the streets this very night were kicked from their homes after their families learned their sexual orientation. The mean age of these children at the time of their rejection is fourteen, 58 percent will be sexually assaulted, and they will attempt suicide, on average, more than eight times. 
That we permit all of this, and indeed that many of us barely notice, is intolera­ble and a sin against the spirit of God. 
So when we gather to remind Notre Dame that, yes, we are still here and we have heros too, this is inevitably part of the context that we gather in. As Fehrenbach implied in his acceptance speech, it is not for ourselves that we fight but for those who cannot fight for themselves. 
At the end of the day, GALA-ND/SMC doesn’t really need Notre Dame to recog­nize us (which it hasn’t) and we don’t real­ly need University President Fr. John Jenkins to meet with us (which he hasn’t). But our struggling brothers and sisters, those who are following after us — those who, but for the grace of God we would still be — they still need it very much. 
They need a University which is brave enough to say, “We don’t need to reserve the option to discriminate against you on no other basis than your sexual orienta­tion. If this opens us up to some sort of legal problems, we do not care. We love you more than this.” 
They need a University which is brave enough to say, “It doesn’t matter if our donors or our trustees walk away because we choose to accept you. If we lose money and power and prestige because of you, we do not care. We love you more than this.” 
But most of all, they need a University which has the compassion to say, “It does not matter if the leaders of the Church fly at us in anger, or if the public rejects us because we choose to embrace you. If even one of our students is hurt because of our inaction, it is one too many. We love you more than this.” 
So for their sake we remind Notre Dame of what is supposed to be — what it has been before in other situations — and of the profound, radical and unpopular depth of genuine love. 
Until that day comes — and it will come — only the students, the faculty and the staff of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s have the power to do what the administration will not. Don’t be fooled by the glossy veneer: Even in a place as sunshiny as Notre Dame there are people who suffer in silence. And beyond these walls you are also the instrument of God in the larger world, where naked hatred may still be found in broad daylight. In this culture, it takes less than you think to destroy some­one. In all times and places challenge intol­erance, encourage dialogue, and be open about yourself. Above all else serve love. 
You may end up saving a life. 
Lance Gallop is a 2005 graduate of Notre Dame, an officer of GALA-ND/SMC and a former Viewpoint columnist. He has never regretted the road he has taken. If anything here resonates with you please consider donating to The Trevor Project, an LGBT suicide preven­tion hotline, at www.thetrevorproject.org. Gallop can be reached at lgallop@tidewaterblues.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Time to remember 

As I began to read the first three lines of Mark Easley’s “Vote the Bums Out” (Oct. 7) I was wondering why he was writing the article just before the November 2010 elections. I thought it was a good idea, but the arguments were a bit outdated. Weren’t these arguments more applicable to the midterm elections of 2006? Didn’t we already vote the bums out in 2006 and 2008 with the a new Democratic majority and president? As I contin­ued to read, I realized Mr. Easley was talking about voting the Democrats out. That’s when I started to disagree with Mr. Easley. His framework is fine, but the content appears a little bit off. So, I’ll try to fix it a bit. 
Remember, remember, the fourth of November. Remember how the Republicans in Washington ignored you time and time again. Remember, from 1994 to 2006, they utterly destroyed an American economy that seemed to have no parallel. Today, that same economy is projected to be topped by a strong Chinese economy. Remember how they deregulated and provided tax cuts to companies that would ultimately both cause an economic collapse on Wall Street and send our jobs overseas. Remember how they twisted the 9/11 attacks to forward their goal of an interventionist international policy that would ultimately bring us into an unrelated war in Iraq that cost the country billions of dol­lars and further our deficits. Remember, that same Republican government that brought about a bill that encouraged people to buy homes that they could not afford, which ultimately brought about a series of foreclosures which is still plaguing real estate markets in Nevada and Florida. Most importantly, remember the 43rd president of the United States, Mr. George W. Bush (who I hate to say is a fellow alumnus of mine), who brings a new meaning to the word incompetency. 
Now, think about what the Democrats came into. President Obama inherited an economy that was in shambles due to the previous Republican administration. The Dow Jones was at an all-time low, foreclosures were being made all around the coun­try, unemployment was rising, and the economy was contracting. 
Now, think about what they did. They brought a halt to rising unemployment, stopped further contraction of the economy, brought about a bailout plan that allowed the Dow Jones to rise once again, and have stopped the further growth of foreclosures. Although their gains haven’t been as quick as we might like, economists around the globe will tell you that it takes time to recover from a recession that was so severe that it could have turned into a depression. But, the key point here is that the econ­omy is improving and gains will continue to be realized in the future. 
Now, for you history and political science buffs out there, think about who brought us out of the Great Depression. While I’ll con­cede that World War II was a significant contributor to our recov­ery, that recovery owes much of its success to Democratic President Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s New Deal. Combined, the First and Second New Deals had a significant impact on the Gross National Product before the war. From 1933 (when Roosevelt entered office) to 1940 (we entered WWII on Dec. 8, 1941), the Gross National Product grew from 68.3 billion dollars to 113 billion dollars (in 1929 dollars) and unemployment dropped from 25.2 percent to 13.9 percent. 
So, before you listen to Mr. Easley, think about recent and related history. Think about why America voted the Democrats in in 2006. Think about the Wall Street Collapse, the Recession, the Iraq War, George W. Bush and the general incompetency of the Republican party. Is voting the Bums in really the best decision? 
Ryan Sullivan 
sophomore off campus Oct. 8 



Pep band pride 

Dear Members of the Notre Dame Marching Band, 
It was not a typical pep rally Saturday on Oct. 3. Some of our fans had walkers and wheelchairs and needed assistance to get to their seats, but believe me when I say that there are no bigger Irish fans than the Sisters of the Holy Cross at Saint Mary’s Convent! We have been so fortunate for the past five years to have Marching Band members come to the convent. Not only do you perform like you are at the stadium, but you interact with the sis­ters and that’s what makes the yearly event so anticipat­ed by all. It’s not only the “Notre Dame Victory March” being played, but it’s your passion for life that you bring when you visit the Sisters in the Lillie O’Grady Center. That passion for life comes through sharing stories about your hometowns, classes and facts about being a mem­ber of the marching band — and, of course, your thoughts on whether Notre Dame is going to win the game. 
This year was by far the best, due to service commis­sioner Caitlin O’Neill’s leadership. She arranged for 84 of you (a third of the band) to play for the Sisters, a deco­rating and clean-up committee, and speakers to motivate the senior crowd. There was assistance from the junior leprechaun, the cheerleaders and the Notre Dame/Saint Mary’s Circle K Service Group. 
As we (assistant band director Emmett O’Leary, who started this event, and our non-student volunteers) looked around the room, saw the Sisters’ smiles, watched them clap along to the music and learn how to form the “K,” our hearts swelled with pride to see how you give of yourselves. We thank and respect each of you 
— along with band director Dr. Kenneth Dye, Emmett O’Leary, Caitlin and everyone involved — for your self­less service that brings such joy to the Sisters. 
Sincerely yours, 
Sr. Margie Lavonis 
Sisters of the Holy Cross St. Mary’s Oct. 8 
The Observer





Scene
page 10 Monday, October 11, 2010 
The foursome also let their geek show as
By CARRIE POWELL 

they brought out a series of techie toys. For 

‘Here it Goes
Scene Writer 

their encore the group showed off LED-
Marching bands. Pop punk. Laser guitars. Rube Goldberg machines. Rescue dogs. Net neutrality. Dance funk. Try to limit the cre­ativity of OK Go or slow them down, and, well, you’ll probably fail. 
In a jam-packed weekend, OK Go brought its off-the-wall knack for art and music-making back to Notre Dame. The band recently kicked off its fall/winter tour to continue backing their recent album, “Of the Blue Colour of the Sky.” Feeling as ambitious as ever, OK Go added a few appearances at Notre Dame for good meas­ure. 
Driving from a gig in Minnesota, OK Go arrived on campus Saturday afternoon in time tojoin the Band of the Fighting Irishat Concert on the Steps, where they held their first live, public performance of the march­ing band version of “This Too Shall Pass.” The performance (without any prior prac­tice together) was met with cheers from Irish and Panther fans alike. 
The Band of the Fighting Irish rehearsed its halftime performance for two weeks, but there were no practices with OK Go. Halftime seemed more like a spontaneous happening than a regimented performance. But when the time came, the sound system worked, the ghillie suits were adequately quirkyandthecardswerereadable.Careful planning and practice on the part of OK Go, its crew, the directors, staff and members of the Band of the Fighting Irish helped every­thing come together. After halftime, high fives were slapped, pictures were taken and profuse shouts of “Thanks!” and “You were great!” were exchanged. OK Go stayed on the sideline with the band to cheer on the Irish, and bassist Tim Nordwind even went up for student pushups. But the night’s show at Legends was calling, and OK Go was off for another performance. 
OK Go’s show at Legends lived up to the fast-pace and fun of Saturday. Students packedLegendsfora19-songsetthatlasted over an hour and a half. Drawing mostly from its second studio release, the power pop driven “Oh No” and the funkier “Of the Blue Colour of the Sky,” OK Go gave a show that was unabashedly fun and showed itspenchant to let their creativity take them to wherever it demands. 
The fun started immediately as the mem­bersofOKGotookthestageincoloredsuits 
— replicating the visual aesthetic from their videos for “This Too Shall Pass (Rube Goldberg Machine)” and “End Love.” Legends soon took part in the fun as the band sprayed the club with colored confetti and opened the show with the pounding, geek rock party tune “Do What You Want.” Other high-energy selections included “Get Over It” and the infamous “Here It Goes Again.” Lead singer Damian Kulash seemed to be radiating excitement as he smiled through every song, precariously floated abovethestageashebalancedonamonitor and showed his range of vocals all the way upto Prince-inspiredscreaming.Evenwhen performing the light-hearted “What to Do” on hand bells (complete with white gloves) the band managed to be entertaining. Especially when the complicated choreogra­phy of an eight-hand bell part gave way to Nordwind wielding a lone, large, bass bell withaplayful “I didn’t doit” look. Theband capped the song with a cheeky, angelic group bow, of course. 
infused jackets and spelled out “OK Go” on their backs before continuing with the music.Whenthebanddidcontinue,itdidso with customized Gibson guitars that lit up and shot laser beams out of the headstocks. 
OK Go also included plenty of audience participation. After performing its cuttingly bluesy“AMillionWays,”Kulashnoticedtwo students performing the video’s choreogra­phy in the crowd and invited them onstage to perform the dance as the band did a sec­ond take on the tune. Later in the show the band even pulled a student onstage to play guitar on “Here It Goes Again.” 
While OK Go created many high points in its performance and showed a great range of styles, the overallconcert experience was not entirely cohesive. The high points of the show came thanks to the geek rock songs of “OK Go,” the band’s first album, and “Oh No.”DrummerDanKonopkawasathisbest on these songs with his dry and crisp style. Songs from “The Blue Colour” are more musicallycomplex,varied,introspectiveand difficult to replicate live. OK Go has come a longwaysince“OhNo”(thebandtouredfor three years before recording “Of the Blue Colour”), and its total discography does not mesh well. It was painful to move between the acoustic crooning of a broken heart on “Last Leaf” and the manic energy of the one-night stand in “Here It Goes Again” — before starting “Last Leaf,” Kulash had to half-jokinglydirectthecrowd,“Shutup,this is a sad song.” The “do-it-yourself,” punk, geek rock guitar of their earlier work just didnotgelwiththeinflectionsoffunk,blues and synthpop of the new album. 
Whether the range of OK Go’s perform­ance left concertgoers a little confused or thoroughly impressed, the band certainly lived up to the hype of its entertainment, even without the aid of videos. In fact, the variety of OK Go’s repertoire points to their dedication to a variety of endeavors, whether they are musical, visual or political. 
Many people know OK Go as the “guys from the treadmill video,” but they are much more than simply entertaining videos. In fact, OK Go takes creating art pretty seri­ously. Their videos take anywhere from a fewdaystosixmonthstoplanandfilm,and there are some high art concepts behind their music and visuals. Some of this may come from Kulash’s background as an Art-Semiotics student at Brown University (yeah, think about those foundobjects when youwatchtheRubeGoldbergvideo).Earlier this year OK Go parted ways with EMI/Capitol and formed independent Paracadute Records. In a recent interview with PBS NewsHour, Kulash commented that the business model of the music indus­try did not aid their creative projects any longer. In pursuit to freely creating and sharing their work, OK Go promotes net neutrality. As a part of this, Kulash has con­tributed to the New York Times and Washington Post and has testified with gui­tarist Andy Ross on Capitol Hill. See? Much more than treadmills. 
With OK Go it is hard to predict what you are going to get. Serious, creative, geeky, smart, artistic; maybe all of the above. Certainly, you will get a group that follows their creative senses whole-heartedly and takes art seriously, usually in an inventively fun way. 
Contact Carrie Powell at cpowell@nd.edu 


AGAin’ oK Go returns to notre DAme 

Visit ndsmcobserver.com to see more pictures. 
PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 



Scene
Monday, October 11, 2010 page 11 





By COURTNEY COX 

Name: Bob Besio 
Scene Writer 

Spotted: in Alumni Hall 

Bob is sporting a striped button-down with dark wash denim jeans. It is the perfect combination of class and coolness for school or going out. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Monday, October 11, 2010 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 



Belles fnish tied for second 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
In an impressive perform­ance, the Belles finished tied for second in a field of 17 teams this weekend at the Benedictine University Eagle Invitational. 
Saint Mary’s finished with a final score of 58 to tie Elmhurst College, while St. Francis took first place with 41 points. 
Junior Joanne Almond and sophomore Julia Kenney were the top two finishers for the Belles, placing second and third overall, respectively, in the 6K event. Almond finished with a time of 23:41 with Kenneyrightbehindat23:49. 
Belles coach Jackie Bauters said Almond and Kenney have asserted themselves as the unquestioned leaders on the Saint Mary’s squad, as they have finished one-two for the Belles in each of their six races this year. She was once again impressed with the perform­ancesofhertoptworunners. 
“Joanne [Almond] and Julia [Kenney] tag-teamed with the front three St. Francis girls the whole race,” she said. “It was great to see them stick it throughandbeattwoofthem.” 
Bauters saw the race as an important opportunity for Almond andKenney to grow as competitors and develop new strategies. 
“I think they were able to learn some about their own racing strategy having to lead apack rather than beingin the thick of the pack,” Bauters said. 
Although Almond and Kenney have been far out in front of the pack, Bauters said the rest of her team has the ability to close the gap on the talentedduo. 
“Right now there is a gap between them and our next runners,” she said. “Going for­ward I don’t expect it to be as great as it was this week. The next pack [of runners] just needs to have a little smarter start and really work on their last1,000meters.” 
As the team begins preparing for the MIAA championships in two weeks, Bauters main focus is to keep the team fit, both physicallyandmentally. 
“I’m hoping to keep them healthy,” she said. “Right before finals is also a tough time of year for us, so I hope they are able to stay well so that they can compete to their potential.” 
The Belles next event will be the Manchester Invitational, which will be held next SaturdayinManchester,Ind. 

Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 


Frilling, Mathews pair up in Cali 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
Juniors Kristy Frilling and Shannon Mathews enjoyed some success over the week­end, reaching the quarterfi­nals in doubles at the Riviera/ITA All American Championships. 
Frilling made it to the quar­terfinal round in singles as well, where she fell to the nations’ top-ranked player, University of California junior Jana Juricova. 
The duo began doubles action by beating junior Vicky Brook and senior Lindsay Clark ofYale, 8-3. 
“Our doubles match went really well,” Frilling said. “We were up and had a lot of chances, and I think Shannon and I will only get better the more we practice and get used to playing with each other.” 
That win matched them with senior Mari Anderson and Juricova of California, the top overall seed in the week’s bracket and the top team in the nation, who defeated the Irish tandem 8-6. 
“I was really happy with how we played, despite not playing with each other that much previously,” Frilling said. “We also had a lot of chances to win the match against Cal, and I think by the time season rolls around we will be able to pull out those matches. 


In singles play, Mathews fell 6-0, 6-2 in the first round against Florida junior Joanna Mather. She was set to play a consolation game against USC sophomore Valeria Pulido on Wednesday, but the match conflicted with the doubles match with Frilling. Frilling beat Stanford sophomore Mallory Burdette 6-7, 6-3, 6­4, before falling to Juricova in the quarterfinals. 
“[Irish coach Jay Louderback] and I talked about how if I am going to win these tournaments instead of making quarters, etc., that I need to work on taking advantage of my opportunities, not playing scared and playing smart and consistent,” Frilling said. “Sometimes I go into lapses of games where I just give away points, and if I want to be top I have to eliminate those errors.” 
The Irish will resume action Oct. 21, when they will travel to Ann Arbor, Mich., for regional qualifying. 


Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
NFL 


Hart, Colts overcome Cassel’s Chiefs in Indy 
Associated Press 
INDIANAPOLIS — Peyton Manning didn’t have a touch­down pass or throw for 300 yards, so along comes backup running back Mike Hart to rescue the Indianapolis Colts and hand the Kansas City Chiefs their first loss of the season. 
With Manning missing receivers all day, Hart found an inside crease in the Chiefs defense, crashed through three players for 11 yards and the game’s only touch­down with 4:02 left to give the Colts a 19-9 victory Sunday. 
The result leaves the NFL without an undefeated team just five weeks into the sea­son. 
“It’s moments like this that you don’t get all the time and when they pop, you try to take advantage of it,” Hart said.“It’sfun.” 
The 5-foot-9 Hart got his chance when Joseph Addai went down midway through the third quarter with what appeared to be a right shoul­derinjury. 
Hartcarried11timesfor50 yards,bothcareer-highs. 
“Mike did a great job,” Manning said after going 26­of-44 for 244 yards and one interception. “He had an interesting week practice wise. He got injured during the week and didn’t know quite what was going to hap­pen. Next thing you know, he comes out and does a heck of a job for us. That’s why you’ve got to have depth. Everybody’sgottobereadyat anytime.” 
Indy (3-2) needed a victory to get back into a first-place tie in the AFC South and was facing the hottest team in football. 
Kansas City (3-1), with four straight wins dating to last season, was the NFL’s last unbeaten team and brought a defense that hadn’t allowed more than 14 points in a game all season — until Hart’srun. 
WithManninghavingarare off day, the Colts featured a more balanced attack. The problem was Indy had deacti­vated backup running back Donald Brown, and when Addai was hurt, the Colts had toturntoHart. 
TheChiefs thought theyhad done enough defensively to thwartManning&Co.withan assortmentofnickelanddime packages that had the quar­terback out of sync and flus­tered. 
On anormalday, that might have been good enough to beattheColts. 
But Kansas City didn’t get into the end zone, and for the first time since 1970, the NFL has no 4-0 teams. Denver, Detroit and the Los Angeles Rams all went 3-0 in ‘70 beforelosing. 
“We’re a team trying to transition into becoming a good team. We’re not there,” coach Todd Haley said. “If we had won this game, I’d be saying the same thing. Good is much bigger than four games. Good is measured a little differently, but we are transitioning and we are makingprogress.” 
Jamaal Charles carried 16 times for 87 yards. Matt Cassel was 16-of-29 for 156 yards, and the Chiefs had to settle for three field goals, losing their chance at a mira­cle comeback when Ryan Succop missed a 51-yard attemptwith1:17togo. 
The difference: Kansas City’s failed gambles and Hart. 
Haleyopenedthegamewith an onside kick that didn’t go the necessary 10 yards. Nine plays later, Adam Vinatierihit a20-yardfieldgoal. 
On the next series, Cassel threw for a first down on fourth-and-2 from the Indy 8. When the ball was incom­plete, Manning marched the Colts into position for a 24­yardfieldgoal that made it 6­0. 
“Going back to 2000, teams that have opened with an onside kick have had a plus­60 percent win percentage whether theygot itornotand we knew that we would have to steal a possession in this game a couple of different ways,” Haley explained. “When they work, you’re good, when they don’t, you’re notgood.” 
Then it was essentially a stalemate. 
Succop hit a 45-yard field goal with2 seconds left in the first half to make it 6-3. Vinatieri opened the second half with a 47-yarder and Succop countered with field goalsof35and43yardstotie thescoreat9. 
Vinatieri finally broke the tie with a 42-yarder with 
14:40 left to give Indy a 12-9 lead, and then the Colts put the ball in Hart’s hands — whosealeditwithhisbigrun. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 

CLASSIFIEDS 

IRISH CORNER APARTMENTS If you or someone you care about Lucille- Oh Michael honey I want to Kramer- Okay tell me, do you have New upscale apts. has been sexually assaulted, we cry so bad, but I don’t think I can a job?FOR RENT Less than 1 mi from ND, PERSONAL can help. spare the moisture. George- No. 
next to Taco Bell on SR933. For more information, visit Notre ——————————————— Kramer- Do you have a woman? AVAILABLE NOW 4BD/2BA HOME UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu. Michael- That’s it I can’t take one George- No. FOR RENT. 1.5 miles from ND 574-Fully furnished apts w/granite coun-Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has ——————————————— more lie from this family. Kramer- Do you have any 876-6333 tertops, GE appliances w/dishwash-many resources in place to assist Tobias- I can’t wait to taste those Tobias- There’s the woman I’m sex-prospects? ——————————————— er. Each has 2bd/2bath. Mstr. bdrm you. If you or someone you love meaty leading man parts in my ually attracted to! George- No. Room for rent in 3 BR 1 BA house. w/walkin closet. needs confidential support or assis-mouth. Michael- Okay but that’s the last Kramer- Anything on the horizon? 2 car garage. Portage and No water/sewer bill. $1000/mo tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at ——————————————— one. George- Uh...no. Hamilton. 574-387-4443 starting. 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. Tobias- Oh come on don’t leave ——————————————— Kramer- Do you have any conceiv­——————————————— your uncle T bag hanging. Seinfeld: able reason for even getting up in NOW RENTING 2011-12 4BD/2BA Call JSK Development For more information, visit ND's Kramer- You’re wasting your life. the morning? HOUSES. STUDENT NEIGHBOR-website at: http://pregnancysup-George Michael- Please don’t call George- I am not. What you call George- I like to get the Daily HOODS 574-876-6333 574-387-4466. port@nd.edu. yourself that. wasting I call living. News. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Monday, October 11, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 
MLB 




Phillies sweep Reds, advance to NLCS again 
“For everybody here the ulti-ple of years, including a victory 
Associated Press 

mate goal is to get to the World over Tampa Bay in the 2008 
CINCINNATI —Cole Hamels Series,” Halladay said. “This is WorldSeries. pumped his fist when it was thefirststep.We’realllookingto “We don’t want to get too car-over, and the Philadelphia gettotheend.” ried away,” Hamels said. “We’re Phillies celebrated with a few The Reds, making their first just going to move on and play chest bumps and ahandshake postseason appearance in 15 thebestbaseballwecan.” linebeforereturningtotheclub-years, committed six errors in Utley, greeted with loud boos houseformorechampagne. the last two games of the series and chants of “Cheater! 
Ho-hum. Another ace, another after finishing second in the NL Cheater!” before each at-bat, dominating performance — and with a club-record .988 fielding connected against Johnny Cueto one more trip to the NL champi-percentage during the regular in the fifth, giving the Phillies a onshipseries. season. 2-0 lead. It was his 10th career 
Hamels struck out nine in a The NL’s top offense managed postseason homer, moving him five-hitter, Chase Utley homered only 11 hits in three games — past teammate Jayson Werth and the Phillies beat the Reds 2-the fewest for ateam in apost-and into first place on the club’s 0on Sunday night to finish off season series, according to careerlist. the franchise’s first playoff STATS LLC. The previous low Utley started Philadelphia’s sweep. was 13 by Texas against the winning rally in Game 2 when 
“This moment here is just NewYorkYankeesin1998. hewashit by apitchfromhard­another stepping stone to trying “I mean, they really pitched,” throwing reliever Aroldis to win another World Series,” Reds manager DustyBakersaid. Chapman in the seventh inning. Hamelssaid. “They’re avery good team. We The All-Star second baseman 
Philadelphia, attempting to kept ‘em in the ballpark, so to acknowledged after the game he become the first NL team in 66 speak, kept the runs down. We wasn’t sure if the ball hit him, er is still warm and it’s a good career starts. He also improved years to win three straight pen-just didn’t push across enough and arecord crowd of44,599 at hitters’ballpark.” to6-3in11postseasonoutings. nants,willhostSanFranciscoor runs.” Great American Ball Park made The Reds never regained their “I have that sort of positive Atlanta in the NLCS opener on Hamels got Joey Votto to it clear what it thought of the footing after Halladay shut them energy every time Icome here,” Saturday. The Giants beat the ground into a double play after play. down in the series opener. The said Hamels, who tossed five Braves 3-2Sunday to take a2-1 Brandon Phillips’ leadoff single UmpiresreviewedUtley’sdrive surprise NL Central winners led shutout innings in his major lead in their best-of-five division in the ninth, then struck out to right-center to see if a fan 4-0 in Game 2 but quickly fell league debut in Cincinnati in series. ScottRolentoendthegame.The interfered with the ball, but the apart, committing four errors in 2006. 
Roy Halladay got the Phillies lanky left-hander threw 119 replays were conclusive and the a gut-wrenching 7-4 loss that Hamels allowed only two run­off to ascintillating start with pitches in his first postseason callwasquicklyupheld. put them on the brink of elimi-ners to reach second and none the second no-hitter in postsea-completegame,82forstrikes. Nocheatinghere.Justanother nation. of the Reds got to third. He also son history and Hamels finished After Rolen struck out for the timely drive for the NL East Hamelstookitfromthere. got some help from his defense off the Reds with amasterful eighthtimeintheseries,thecel-champs. The 2008 World Series MVP, in the first when center fielder performance of his own. With ebrationwason.Well,sortof. “IknewIhititOK,”Utleysaid. quitetheluxurytohaveasaNo. ShaneVictorinosprintedintothe Roy Oswalt also rested and It all looked very routine — “I hit a ball in the first inning I 3 starter in the postseason, gap in left-center to grab ready to go for the next round, Charlie Manuel’s team has prac-thought Ihit better than that increased his perfect mark Phillips’ liner with speedy Drew lookout. ticedthisalotoverthepastcou-one, but luckyfor us, the weath-againstCincinnati to7-0ineight Stubbsonfirst. 

NFL 


Raiders break 13-game losing streak to Chargers in Oakland 
Chargerson Sunday. With the Chargers drivingfor fans. lowing the two blocked punts 
Associated Press 

The Raiders (2-3) used two the potential go-ahead score, a Rivers threw for 431 yards after their first two drives of 
OAKLAND, Calif. —After 13 blocked two punts, two long blitzing Huff hit Rivers just and two touchdowns and thegame. 
straight losses to San Diego, it touchdown drives in the sec-before his arm went forward, Malcolm Floyd had a career-Campbell, who was benched 
took just about everything ond half led by backup quar-knocking the ball loose. high 213 yards receiving but halfway through the second 
bouncing the Oakland Raiders’ terback Jason Campbell and Branch picked up the ball and the Chargers have only them-game of the season, replaced 
waytoendtheskid. the big play at the end by raced 64 yards for the score to selves to blame for their third an injured Bruce Gradkowski Michael Bush ran 3 yards for Branch and Michael Huff for make it 35-27 with 58 seconds straight road loss of the sea-late in the first quarter. 
the go-ahead touchdown with their first win over San Diego left. son, losing three fumbles deep Gradkowski injured his shoul­
3:39 remaining and Tyvon (2-3) since September 2003. When referee Clete in Raidersterritory. der after being hit by Shaun Branch returned a fumble 64 That was the second longest Blakeman upheld the call on The Chargers have allowed Phillips and was in for only yards for ascore as the active streak to Buffalo’s 14-replay, years of frustration four special teams touchdowns threeplays the restoftheway. Raiders ended the drought game losing streak to New were let out by the small, but in those three losses, including Campbell completed 13 of 18 with a 35-27 victory over the England. enthusiastic, crowd of Raiders a touchdown and a safety fol-passes for 159 yards and a 1­

yard touchdown to Zach Miller, leading drives of 93 and 73 yards in the secondhalf to give the Raiders the lead. The biggest play on the winning drive came when Campbell found Brandon Myers for a 12­yardgainonfourth-and-1from the San Diego 24. Bush, who ran for 104 yards in place of the injured Darren McFadden, finisheditfromthere. 
Rivers’ 41-yard touchdown pass to Floyd midway through the third quarter gave the Chargers a 24-15 lead. With Vincent Jackson sitting out in a season-long contract dispute, Floyddelivered the bigplays at receiver that have been lack for San Diego this year He also caught passes of 34, 36 and 55 yards. 
The Raiders responded with the 97-yard drive. Campbell converted a third-and-1 sneak to get the drive going and then connected on a58-yard pass to Louis Murphy to move the Raiders deep into Chargers territory. 
Campbell did a good job extending a play on third-and­goal from the 1, finding Miller in the back of the end zone for the score that was upheld after aSan Diegochallenge. 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, October 11, 2010 
time the Irish were out-hit in a think overall, the team hitting unable to hold much sway over kills and a number of players league match in 21 consecutive percentage that we’d like to each set in the match and did made more than one ace in the 
Brown 
continued from page 20 
Friday’s match at Cardinal Arena gave some of the Irish a sense of déjà vu as the two teams last meeting was in the final round of the Big East championships, where the 3-1 loss against Louisville (25-21, 23-25, 25-19, 25-17) knocked the Irish out of the title for the fourth straight year, and the 3­0 (25-17, 25-17, 25-19) loss at Cincinnati makes the Bearcats the solo undefeated team in the conference. 
Although the Irish (11-7, 4-2) managed to push the match into a fourth set and posted impressive numbers, they were not able to pull one over on the Cardinals, who out-hit them .291 to .173. It was the first 
MLB 
Yankees looking at ALCS 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — They had stumbled into October, playing the last two months of the sea­son as if they were just anoth­er team, failing at the plate and on the mound uncharac­teristicallyoften. 
For only the third time in their proud history, and the first since 1944, they failed to hold on after leading on Labor Day. 
But now, as the weather turns crisp, the New York Yankees have regained their sharpness of the first four months, once again looking like the World Series champi­ons of old in their first-round sweepoftheMinnesotaTwins. 
“In here, we were never worried about that stuff,” Nick Swisher said Saturday night after the Yankees advanced to an AL championship series matchup against Texas or Tampa Bay. “I think in the postseason, experience plays a huge factor, and we have a lot ofitinthisclubhouse.” 
New York was 66-37 through July before going 29-30 the rest of the way as numerous players wound up in the train­er’s room and some on the dis­abledlist. 
Andy Pettitte was sidelined from July 18 to Sept. 19 because of a strained left groin, and Alex Rodriguez was out from Aug. 20 to Sept. 5 with a strained left calf. Not long after he was acquired from Houston at the July 31 trade deadline, Lance Berkman spent two weeks on the disabled list with a sprainedrightankle. 
Mark Teixeira has played with a broken pinky toe on his right foot since being hit by a pitch from Oakland’s Vin Mazzaro on Aug. 31. A few days earlier, Teixeira injured his right thumb on a fielding play, an injury that eventually requiredashotofpainkiller. 
Brett Gardner had a sore right wrist that needed acorti­sone shot in mid-September, around the same time Swisher received acortisone shot in his soreleftknee. 
games, dating back to the 2008 season. Louisville also out-blocked Notre Dame, 12-5, and made afewer number of errors ineachset. 
The Irish defense was not where it has been in recent matches, aflaw that Brown felt strongly affected each of the matches. 
“We felt like we know our blocking and defense could be a lot better,” Brown said. “That areawas notasstrongasithas beeninthepast.” 
Notre Dame’s outside hitters continued to be dominant on the floor, but faced tough com­petition on the other side of the netinbothmatches. 
“I think we stuttered a little bit [on offense],” Brown said. “I think there are some things that we did very well but I have and that we know we need to have to be successful, westruggledalittlebitwith.” 
Freshman Andrea McHugh lead the team with 15 kills and seven digs and junior Kristen Dealy made 13 kills accompa­nied by four digs. Senior mid­dle blocker Kellie Sciacca joined in the Irish offensive with 14 kills of her own while freshman Sammie Brown had 32assists. 
Junior libero Frenchy Silva had 18 digs in the match, but she was not able to compete with five Louisville players making double-digit efforts, even after the Cardinals lost starting libero Lindsey Mango toaninjuryinthefirstset. 
The Irish had an experience similartoSaturday’s onSunday at Cincinnati, but they were not post the strong statistics they have been up to this point in the season.Theydid manage to improve their hitting from Saturday’s low percentage to a .204, with a set-high .375 in thesecondset. 
McHughledNotre Dameonce again in kills with 12, followed close behind by Sciacca with 
11. Sciacca is now only three away from hitting the 1,000 career kills mark. Sammie Brown led the defense with nine digs while Silva scooped up seven. Brown also had 30 assistsinthematch. 
The Bearcats have now won 35 consecutive home games, a record that was consistent with the control they showed over their home court. On more than one occasion Cincinnati posted multiple unanswered 
“We’ve got to start the game well, play the middle of the game well, and finish the game well. That’s the chal­lenge, to play the complete 90 minutes together,” Clark said. 
The Irish will welcome the Golden Eagles from match. The Irish were able to close in on the Bearcats lead in each set, but were not able to overcome Cincinnati’s consis­tent hitting, including a .387 clipinthefinalset. 
“These were the twotoughest teams in the conference for us to play against, and I think there were some bright spots but I certainly think that we had some weaknesses that were exposed, and that we can learn a lot from it,” Brown said. 
The Irish have a few days to recover and get back on track before facing another confer­ence opponent on Oct. 15. when Notre Dame hosts DePaul. 
Contact Meghan Veselik at mvesel01@nd.edu 
Clark 
continued from page 20 

well,” Clark said. “During the last four or five games, he has put tremendous effort Marquette to Notre Dame’s Alumni Stadium at 7 p.m. Wednesday with to redeem themselves in the Big East Conference. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
in.” 
From this game, Clark wanted to take away the les­son that they need to start becoming dangerous during all portions of the game to ensure more wins in the future. 


Monday, October 11, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Saint Mary’s wins one, loses one in triangular 
By KATHERINE MACK 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s got its first win in three weeks against MIAA foe Albion on Saturday in their first match of the triangular before dropping their second match againstBeloit. 
The Belles (4-14, 2-7 MIAA) came out strong against the host Britons,winninginafive-setbattle (19-25,29-26,25-21,15-25,15-9). 
Saint Mary’s match against Albion wasnotreminiscentofthelasttime thesetwoteamsfacedoffamonth ago, when the Belles crushed the Britons (4-18, 0-9 MIAA) three gamestonone. 
The Belles did not start the match the way they wanted, as their first set attack percentage was-.091comparedtotheBritons’ meager, but stillbetter, .069. They hung tough however, and brought their attack percentage to a posi­tive number for the rest of the match. Attack percentage proved to be keyin getting this important win for Saint Mary’s, since they were victorious in each set in whichtheyoutplayedtheBritonsin thatcategory. 
Contributorsincludedsophomore Allison Zandarsk, who recorded a match-and season-high 16 kills and junior Lindsey Stuss with 12 kills and a career-best 20 digs. FreshmanHaileeLeitzrakedin45 assists and senior Meghann Rose added28digs. 
The Belles second opponent on Saturday, however, proved to be toomuchastheyfelltoBeloit(12­9)byascoreof3-1(15-25,25-16, 25-13,25-15). 
TheBellesbrought theirpositive momentumwiththem,winningthe first set in decisive fashion, 15-25 against the Buccaneers. Saint Mary’s just could continue their dominating play for long as they lostthenextthreesets,andconse­quently the match. Overall, the Belles were outdone in almost every positive statistical category bytheBuccaneers. 
Contributors for the Belles includedRose,leading the defense againwith22digsandStusslead­ing Saint Mary’s offense with nine kills. 
Saint Mary’s willplay again this Tuesdayat7p.m.whentheBelles hostMIAAopponentOlivet. 
Contact Katherine Mack at kmack1@nd.edu 


SMC SOCCER 
Team gives up hat trick to Cook 

By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s fell victim to a tremendous individual effort Sunday, as Marian freshman SamanthaCooknettedahattrickto handtheBellestheirfourthstraight loss,6-2. 


Sophomore Maddie Meckes and juniorTaylorPattoneachscoredfor theBelles. 
“Westartedoffverypoorly,which I’m very disappointed about. Usually we start off very well,” Joycesaid. 
BellescoachMichaelJoycecred­itedtheirslowstarttothefourgoals theygaveupintheopeningtwenty minutesofthematch. 
“Afteracoupleofveryearlygoals weweredeflatedandourpoorplay continued on through most of the firsthalf,”Joycesaid.“Itwastough to break that until halftime when wecouldstepbackandregroup.” 
TheBellesoutscoredtheKnights 2-1intheafterhalftime,andJoyce saidhedoesseesomepositivesthat canbetakenouttheBelles’playin thesecondhalf. 
“There is some consolation in a goodsecondhalf,”Joycesaid.“We are a young team so you have to takeadvantageofgameopportuni­tiestobuildchemistryandimprove asateam. We’realsoateamthat never stops working, which I’m veryproudof.” 
Joycesaidhesawsomeglimpses thathisteamisturningthecorner, buttheyjustcannotseemto puta fullgametogether. 
“Westrugglewithputtingasolid 90 minutes together —we usually have agoodhalf or maybe asolid 65minutes,butwefalloffatsome point,” Joyce said. “We struggle withmaintainingfocusandintensi­ty.” 
The Belles’ next game is Wednesday at 5 p.m. at Hope College. 
Contact Joe Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
SMC SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Belles take third place at first meet of the year 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s opened up their 2010-11seasonattheUniversityof Notre Dame’s Dennis StarkRelays on Friday night. New head coach MarkBenishek’sfirsttasteofcolle­giate swimming came against one of the most competitive fields his teamwillfaceallseason. 
CompetingagainstD-1opponents Notre Dame, Illinois State and Valparaiso, the Belles finished in thirdplace with 112 team points. TheIrish tookfirst with ascore of 220, followedbyIndianaStateand Valparaisowith196pointsand118 points,respectively. 
As a team, Saint Mary’s scored third-place points in the 400-yard medleyrelay,duetoaNotreDame disqualification, as well as the 400 backstroke relay and the 400free relay. 
Individually, junior diver Tina Koswenda impressed, finishing thirdin the women’scombo diving event with a score of 418.65. Given the multiple NCAAdivisions separatingSaintMary’sandtherest ofthefieldonFriday,theBellescan moveontoMIAAcompetitionwith a certain degree of confidence. Saint Mary’s looks forward more thanaweektopracticebeforetheir nextcompetition,theMIAArelays,a non-scored meet hostedbyCalvin CollegeinGrandRapids,Mich. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, October 11, 2010 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish finish fifth of 14 in Knoxville 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
This weekend may not have brought a first-place finish for the Irish, but it certainly brought success nonetheless. The team traveled to Knoxville, Tenn. for the Mercedes-Benz Championship at the Holston Hills Country Club, where they finishedfifthof14teams. 
FreshmanNicoleZhangcame out tied for ninth, while junior So-Hyun Park ended tied for 13th. 
The team totaled 876 strokes on the 54 holes, behind Tennessee’s first place 849. The Irish improved with each day, lowering their scores from 295 the first day to 293 the second and concluding with a 288. 
“Our team strikes to always be the best, no matter the strength of the field, so we were pretty disappointed,” freshman Kristina Nhim said. “There are a lot more opportu­nities coming up though, so we have a lot more chances to keep improving and finishing ontop.” 
NotreDame’sfirst-roundper­formance was led by Zhang, Park and senior Katie Conway, who all finished the first day at 73 strokes, 1-over par and tied for 12th place. Junior Becca Huffer followed at 4-over par with 76 strokes and tied for 42nd, closely trailed by Nhim at 6-over with 78 strokes and tied for 56th place. The Irish ended the day in sixth place overall. 
“I wasn’t happy with any of my performances because there’s always something that I could have done better,” Nhim said. “It’s frustrating, and I reallywanttoimproveonman­aging my mistakes and not let­tingbadshotsdistractme.” 
The team was able to improvetoafifth-placetiewith Kent State to conclude the sec­ond day of play. Park and Zhang remained steadily together, ending the day tied for ninth at 71 strokes for the 18 holes. Conway fell to 56th after shooting an 81, while Huffer and Nhim remained at their original rank with 76 and 75strokesrespectively. 
The final day of play turned competitiveasZhangpickedup her performance, firing an even-par 72 to bring herself up to ninth place with a total of 216, closely behind Mississippi’s first place golfer, Natalie Gleadall, at 207. Park fell one place, ending in 13th and 217 strokes, only one behind her teammate. Huffer narrowed the gap, climbing to 30th place with 70 strokes for the day and 222 total, as did Nhim who moved up to 42nd place with her 72 for the final round of play. Conway fell to 65th place as she used 78 strokesfortheday. 
“All of us have different aspects of the game to improve on because we all have differ­entstrengths andweaknesses,” Nhimsaid. 
The Irish now have a week-long break before the Landfall Tradition in Wilmington, North Carolina at the Country Club of LandfallwhichstartsOct.22. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S ROWING 

Season opens at Head of the Rock Regatta 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame opened the 2010­11seasonyesterdayinRockford, Ill., with the Head of the Rock Regatta. Featuring six sets of pair-boats, two varsity four-boats, two novice eight-boats and four varsity eight-boats, the Irish finished in third place in the team standings, just behind Big 10 competitors Wisconsin andMinnesota. 
Irish coach Martin Stone said that the usual hiccups of a sea­son opener prevented to Irish from finishing higher. However the disappointment of finishing thirdwastemperedbytheeffort givenbytheentiresquad. 
“It was a good job overall, we would just have liked to go faster in a couple events,” Stone said. “Everybody competed well, quite a few people rode 2. We just need to develop more aggressiveness.” 
Stone said the Badgers and Golden Gophers both possess fine squads, and it was their execution which was the differ­enceinthemeet. 
“Wisconsin and Minnesota beat us,” Stone said. “We just need to do a couple things bet­ter.” 
Even so, Stone also said his squad expects to compete for first place, regardless of the competition. 
“We came to win, that’s what we do at Notre Dame,” Stone said. 
A promising early-season sign forthedefendingBigEastcham­pions was the performance of the gold and blue novice-8 boats, anchored by freshmen coxswains Christina Dines and LeahCorachea,respectively. 
“We won the novice 8, so our firstyearsdidwell,”Stonesaid. 
Integral to the success of the younger rowers is the presence of more experienced girls on NotreDame’sroster. 
“It’s a good mix,” Stone said, referring to the mix offreshmen and upperclassmen. “Obviously we expectthelearningcurvefor the freshmen to be steeper than theoldergirls.” 
Next up for the Irish is their homemeetagainstTulsaonOct. 
29. Events will begin at 4:30 p.m. 
Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 
Watt qualifies for All-Americas 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
In a difficult week for the Irish,juniorCaseyWattwasthe lone qualifier to the main draw of the ITA All-American ChampionshipsinTulsa,Okla. 
Senior Dan Stahl and sopho­more Blas Moros both partici­pated in the qualifying draw that began last Monday and neither were able to advance into the main draw of the event. 
No. 69 Stahl fell to Florida’s sophomore, Nassim Slilam 6-0, 6-0 in an early match and No. 112 Moros fell to Virginia’s Julen Urigen in a three-set match. Moros won the first set 6-3, then dropped each of the nexttwobythesamescore. 
“Each had a very tough first round match, as Blas played a returning starter from Virginia, probably the country’s best team this year, and Dan played one ofFlorida’s better players,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “The idea in sending them to the qualifying rounds was to expose them to high national levelcompetitionandgivethem the opportunity to see where theyare.” 
No. 39 Watt was unable to continue in the main draw of the same event after falling Thursday to No. 14 Marcel Thiemann 6-3, 6-1, pushing Watttotheconsolationround. 
Watt fell to Ashley Watling of Tulsa,endinghistournament. 
The Irish will next play host to the Midwest Regional Championships that begin Oct. 21. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
NFL 
49ers fall to Eagles, go to 0-5 
Associated Press 
SAN FRANCISCO — Backup quarterback David Carr took a few steps onto the field, helmet on, ready to take over for the beleaguered Alex Smith. 
Then Carr was off and Smith returned. That confus­ing scene followed a heated exchange between Smith and 49ers coach Mike Singletary, who lit into his quarterback after an awful sequence late in San Francisco’s 27-24 loss to the Philadelphia Eagles on Sunday night that sent the winless 49ers to 0-5. 
Smith fumbled the first play of the fourth quarter that led to Quintin Mikell’s 52-yard return for a score. When the Niners got the ball back, Smith threw three straight incompletions. 
Singletary was ready to make the switch to Carr when Smith spoke up for himself — after a little pep talk from tight end Vernon Davis encouraging him to do so. 
“I really wanted to see what his response would be in a situation like that,” Singletary said. “A quarter­back who has anything in him is going to have some­thing to say about that.” 
Singletary and Smith met long after the game ended, though the coach said he was considering a quarterback change before next Sunday’s home game against the OaklandRaiders. 
“I’m going to keep on going out there until they tell me I’m not,” Smith said. “We’re 0-5 and what we’re doing is not working. We’ve obviously got to get some things cor­rected. ... Some things kind of went on on the sideline. Coach Singletary and I talked and I went back in. It’s a dis­cussion that was between us.” 
Both Davis and running back Frank Gore are pulling for Smith to keep his job. Smith responded by leading two late touchdown drives, hitting Davis on a 7-yard score and Gore on a 1­yarder. 
“I wanted Alex to stay in the game because Ibelieve in Alex,” Davis said. “I think he responded well. He’s very courageous.” 


Monday, October 11, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 17 
HOCKEY 

No. 17 Irish split two games 
By SAM WERNER 
Sports Writer 
The No. 17 Irish split a pair of games in the season-opening Warrior College Hockey Ice Breaker Tournament in St. Louis this weekend. Notre Dame beat Holy Cross, 6-3, Friday before losing a heartbreaker to No. 14 Boston University in the tourna­ment’s championship game on Sunday. 
Terrier defenseman Sean Escobedo scored with 1:07 left on the clock to win the game for Boston University. Sophomore left wing Nick Larson led the way with two goals for the Irish (1-1­
0) in a game in which neither team held more than a one-goal lead. 
The Terriers held a 2-1 lead after the first period, but Larson scored both goals in the second stanza and, with another goal from freshman defenseman Shayne Taker, the teams entered the final period tied 4-4. Even though the teams combined for five goals in the second period, the final 20 minutes were a defensive struggle, with neither team lighting the lamp until Escobedo’s game-winner. 
Freshman goalie Steven Summerhays made his Notre Dame debut against the Terriers, stopping 19 of 24 Boston University shots. 
In the opener against Holy Cross, freshman left wing Anders Lee scored a hat trick in his first regular season Division I action. Lee got the Irish off to a hot start, netting his first goal just 1:58 into the game. After Shayne Stockton tied it up for the Crusaders, Lee responded less than five minutes later with his second of the game on a one-timer set up by linemate Ryan Guentzel, who notched three assists in the game. 


After that, it was smooth sail­ing for the Irish. Senior defense-man Joe Lavin lit the lamp to give Notre Dame a 3-1 lead heading into the first intermis­sion, and Larson, Lee and fresh­man center T.J. Tynan added goals in the second to put the game out of reach. 
Sophomore Mike Johnson had 32 saves on 35 Crusader shots to pick up the win in net for Notre Dame. 
The Irish return to action next weekend when they host Lake Superior State at the Joyce Center in both teams’ CCHA openers. Games are set for Thursday and Friday night at 
7:35 p.m. 
Contact Sam Werner at swerner@nd.edu 


McGraw 
continued from page 20 
been able to spend very much time at all working with her teammates. 
“As much as I enjoyed the summer and as much as I loved playing for Team Canada, you miss out on things and I’m just trying to get with them as much as I can,” she said. “[The coaches] kept me out of the gym for Monday, but not after that.” 
Fortunately, Achonwa’s arrival coincided well with Notre Dame’s practice sched­ule. The team held its first offi­cial practice Thursday. 
“It went pretty well, actually,” Achonwa said. “Our offense we run is based on contact, and we run the same with the Canadian team. So offensively, it’s not that different.” 
Achonwa had to leave prac­tice early to take an exam, and has four more scheduled for this week. Missing so much class was actually a great intro­duction to Notre Dame, she said. 
“The people at Notre Dame are indescribable,” she said. “Academic advisors, tutors, coaches. There’s an unlimited amount of people who are will­ing to help you.” 
In fact, Achonwa, a native of Guelph, Ontario, missed just one event that can’t be made up — last weekend’s pre-sea­son hockey game between Notre Dame and Guelph. 
“I thought they were coming this weekend,” she said. “I probably know some of the players.” 
But the tournament itself allowed Achonwa to prepare for the collegiate season in many ways, including watching 
— and playing against — team USA, the eventual champions. The team is coached by Connecticut head coach Geno Auriemma and is comprised of star WNBA players and one collegiate star, Connecticut sen­ior Maya Moore. 
“I learned a lot from playing with, playing against and just watching the game and observ­ing,” Achonwa said. “We played against and with the best play­ers in the world. You can’t put a value on just watching Diana Taurasi and Tina Charles. You just pick up little details.” 
Notre Dame will face Auriemma’s Huskies twice dur­ing the regular season and could see them again in the Big East or NCAA Tournament. 
“I didn’t get to talk to him, but he seems like a very intense coach. He likes to win. He holds a good team together,” Achonwa said. “It made me excited to get a preview of play­ing him and Maya Moore and UConn this season. 
“As much as I love team Canada, I can’t wait for our season to begin. I’m very com­petitive.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Notre Dame defeats three teams in relays 
By MICHAEL TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame got off to an encouraging start to its sea­son, defeating three visiting teams at the Dennis Stark Relays Friday at Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
The event honored former men’s and women’s head coach Dennis Stark, who was in attendance for the resounding Irish victory, as Notre Dame won 11 of the 12 events, with the one blemish coming on a dis­qualification. 
Notre Dame finished the relays with 200 points. Illinois State (196), Valparaiso (118) and Saint Mary’s (112) all finished behind the Irish. 
Irish coach Brian Barnes said he saw many positive signs during his team’s per­formance on Friday. 
“I’m liking the direction and the attitude this team is displaying right now,” he said to und.com. “It was good to watch the team compete in a tired state and still be tough. 
Barnes said he was specif­ically pleased with the way his 200 meter medley team competed. Sophomores Kim Holden and Lauren Scott and seniors Amywren Miller and Samantha Maxwell combined for a time of 1:46.14, good enough for first place. 
“[Holden, Scott, Miller and Maxwell] swam very tough together,” he said. 
The 200 free relay team also performed well, earn­ing a meet record with its time of 1:35.19. The race was anchored by Miller, who capped off the race with a split time of 22.99. 
Although the Irish per ­formed strongly, Barnes stressed that the team still needs to improve. 
“We’re going to try to be much better in the next meet than we were tonight,” Barnes said. 
The Irish will get their chance in a battle against two top -20 Southeastern Conference opponents, when they travel south for a three team contest with Auburn and LSU. 
“It’s two weeks away, and we’re going to continue to work hard,” Barnes said. “We ’re going to show up down there better suited to compete than we were today. We’re just a bit race-rusty.” 
Contact Michael Todisco at mtodisco@nd.edu 


page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, October 11, 2010 
Boyce 
continued from page 20 
playersinthecountry.She shota77onFridayand72on Saturdaytotakethemedal. 
“I’vewatched[Boyce]develop thelastcoupleofyears,” Hamiltonsaid.“Ithinkthisis goingtogetheroverthehump toshootingthatlowonaregu­larbasis.We’regoingtoseea lotmoreofthatthisspring.” 
FreshmanDoyleO’Brienalso hadtwosub-80roundsasshe turnedinroundsof79anda career-best77onFridayand Saturday,respectively.Senior RosieO’Connorfireda79,and freshmenMarinBeagleyand PaigePollackturnedscoresof 83and85,respectively,on Saturday.AllfiveSaintMary’s golfersshavedstrokesofftheir FridayscoresonSaturday. 
“Itwasagreatweekend,” Hamiltonsaid.“Weshowedthe countrywhatwecandoona goodday.” 
SaintMary’shasdominated theMIAAoverthelastsix years,takinghometitleseach year.Comparedtoteamsinthe past,Hamiltonsaidthisteamis rightuptherewiththebestof them. 
“It’sacontinuationofthetra-ditionwe’vecreated,”Hamilton said.“We’vegotsomenewcar­riersofthetorchtocarryit on.” 
Boyce,O’BrienandO’Connor werenamedtotheAll­Tournamentteam,andthose threeplusBeagleywereall namedfirst-teamAll-MIAA selections.Forthefirsttimein SaintMary’shistory,fourplay­erswerenamedtothefirst team. 
Boycewasnamedtheseason medalistasthebestplayerin theconferenceforthefall,and shecompletedherawards podiumsweepasshereceived theMIAASportsmanship awardasvotedonbythe coaches. 
TheBelleswillstartthe springseasoninMarch.They arelookingtotaketheircon­ferencesuccessintothenation­alcompetitionsandcompete foranNCAAtitle.Withthe MIAAtitleundertheirbelt, theyhaveearnedtheprivilege tohosttwoofthreeroundsin theNCAAQualifyingrounds. 
“We’vegottheNCAA Championshipscomingupin thespring,”Hamiltonsaid. “Andwewanttowinthewhole thing.” 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

MEN’S SWIMMING AND DIVING 
Irish start season with win in Stark Relays 
Augustin 
continued from page 20 
proved to be the lone goal of thefirsthalf. 
The Irish opened up a 2-0 lead in the second half after Henderson’s team-high 11th goal of the season hitthe back of the net in the 58th minute. She also registered a career­high11shots. 
Seton Hall answered back just over two minutes later with a goal from sophomore forward Stephanie Soma that pulled the Pirates within a score, but they could not get the equalizer that would have earnedthemapoint. 
On Sunday, the Irish hosted the Scarlet Knights on senior day and celebrated one of the most successful classes in program history, which has compiled a 79-11-3 record and made three trips to the College Cup semifinals. The seniors left Alumni Stadium victorious once again as they combined for two goals and two assists in the nationally televised3-2win. 
Irish coach Randy Waldrum was proud of his seniors and said they have made a lasting impactontheprogram. 
“They’re one of the win­ningest senior classes ever, which says a lot about their careers here,” Waldrum said. “It seems like every year we lose a great group of seniors, and the six girls we have [here] have played very well intheirtimehere.” 
The Irish got on the board first in the 13th minute when freshman midfielder Elizabeth Tucker led Augustin with a beautiful pass into the box that she put in the back of the net for her eighth goal of the year. 
Rutgers, however, respond­ed less than two minutes later when a cross hit off senior defender Julie Scheidler’s leg for an own goal that tied the score at one. Neither team seemed to find an offensive rhythm after the Irish miscue, and the game remained tied at the half,butitgaveRutgers new life in a critical confer­encematchup. 
“In hindsight, they scored that goal so quick that I think that gotthem even more moti­vated in the first half,” Waldrumsaid. 
Notre Dame, however, looked like a different team in the second half, registering three shots in the first nine minutes. The Irish broke through in the 65th minute when Augustin hit a streaking Henderson, who drew Rutgers goalkeeper Emmy Simpkins out of the goal before punch­ing in the go-ahead tally, her 12th on the year. Just two minutes later, Augustin found fellowseniorEricaIantornoin the box, who fired home her third goal of the season to givetheIrisha3-1lead. 
The Scarlet Knights didn’t give up after falling behind by two scores, as junior forward 

By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Sports Writer 
The Irish earned gold in all but three races on their way to their first victory of the 2010 season over Oakland and Valparaiso. 
The Irish hosted the 46th annual Dennis Stark Relays, where they earned 256 points to top the Grizzlies (190) and theCrusaders(120). 
After suffering a loss in this same meet against Michigan in 2009, the Irish were thrilled to starttheseasonwithawin. 
“We definitely had a better performance this year, and that’s something we’re happy about and excited to build on,” senior captain Mike Sullivan said. 
The Irish earned gold in all but three races, including wins in the 200-yard freestyle relay, the 400 backstroke relay, the 400 breaststroke relay and the 400 free relay, which Sullivan called some of the team’s best performances. 
Junior Marshall Sherman earned an early lead for the Irish in the 200 free relay and freshman Frank Dyer, junior Kevin Rahill and senior Thomas Van Volkenburg main­tained the lead on the way to gold. 
Sullivan himselfpropelled the Irish to a win in the 400 back­stroke relay. Freshman Bertie Nel, Sherman and senior Joshua Nosal finished off the victorywithatimeof3:04.98. 
Sophomore Christopher Johnson, senior Joseph Raycroft, freshman Joshua Choi and freshman Colin Babcock out-swam the compe­tition for another gold in the 400breaststrokerelay. 
“We are deepin the back and breast events, so we expected to do well there,” Sullivan said. “ButIthoughtour sprinters did a good job of stepping up and swimming fast in the 200 free relay, and the 400 free as well.” 
The Irish also defeated the competition in the 400 medley relay, the 400 individual med­ley relay, the 400 butterfly relay, the diving relay and combodiving. 
“The competition overall swam well in some of the longer events, like the 800 free relay and the 2 by 500 free relay,” Sullivan said. “There was some stiff competition in the middle and longer distance freestyleevents,sothat’s some­thing we will remember when we have a dual meet against Oaklandinafewweeks.” 
The Grizzlies defeated the Irish in the 800 free relay, the 1,000 free relay and the 200 medley relay. Notre Dame earned silver in all three of thoseraces. 
“Oakland especially had standout freestylers, as well as some sprinters in the other strokes,” Sullivan said. “They always have some fast guys up topthatwehave todealwithin our dual meet, so we will have to swim well in order to beat themintwoweeks.” 
Overall, Sullivan said he was pleasedwiththeresult. 
“Starting off this year with a win at the relays is definitely a good feeling, but at this point we like to look more at the actual team’s performance rather than the scoreboard. With the meet being so early in the season, it’s a good opportu­nity to see what sort of progress the guys are making and also what sorts of events they might be more comfort­ablein,”hesaid. 
The Irish next face Big East rival Pittsburgh at the Rolfs AquaticCenteronOct.22. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
Karla Schacher scored in the box in the 77th minute to pull Rutgers within one. The Scarlet Knights had a chance to tie in the final minute of action, but senior goalkeeper Nikki Weiss covered up a weakly hit shot to seal the Irishwin. 
Waldrum was pleased with his team’s effort in the second half. 
“I think more than anything we really talked about getting more competitive at halftime,” Waldrum said. “The whole first half we were playing against a team that was really desperate, andhosting the Big East tournament this year, they were desperate for a win today. They came out really competitive and we came out lethargic and flat, so at half­time we stressed coming out andmatchingthatintensity.” 
With the two wins this weekend, Notre Dame extend­ed its Big East unbeaten streak to 73 games, register­ing a 70-0-3 record in those contests. 
Contact Mike Gotimer at mgotimer@nd.edu 


Monday, October 11, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
Monday, October 11, 2010 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 
No. 5 Irish dominate Scarlet Knights 
By MIKE GOTIMER 
Sports Writer 
No. 5 Notre Dame made sure its senior class would wrap up its regular season home careers with a Garden State sweep this weekend over SetonHallandRutgers. 
The Irish kicked off the weekend on Friday with a 2-1 win over Seton Hall. Senior midfielder Rose Augustin and junior forward Melissa Henderson led the Irish as each player registered a goal andanassist. 
The Irish attacked early and often in the match, firing off 32 shots compared to the Pirates’ four with a 15-2 edge inshotsongoal. 
Notre Dame’s aggressive attack led to an early 1-0 lead when Augustin scored just 
1:21 into the game, which 
see AUGUSTINpage 18 
The Observer

Sports 
Big East battle 

JULIE HERDER/The Observer Irish senior midfielder Rose Augustin prepares to send in a cross in Notre Dame’s 3-2 victory over Rutgers Sunday in Alumni Stadium. Augustin and junior forward Melissa Henderson scored. 
page 20 
SMC GOLF 
Belles grab six straight MIAAtitles 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Comingintothefallseason, No.7SaintMary’shadtwo goals:wintheMIAAtitleand makearunatthenational championship.AfterSaturday’s landslidevictoryintheconfer­encechampionshipatBedford ValleyCountryClub,theBelles arehalfwaythere. 
Firinga312forthedayand 635overall,SaintMary’scap­tureditssixthconsecutivetitle. 
“Thatwasagreatperform-ance,”BellescoachMark Hamiltonsaid.“Saturdaywas probablyourbestroundofthe year.” 
SeniorMaryKateBoycewas themedalistforthetourna­mentandshowedonceagain thatsheisoneofthepremier 
see BOYCE/page 18 


MEN’S SOCCER 

West Virginia overcomes Notre Dame in Morgantown 
Big East,” Irish coach Bobby pleased with how the team a good team,” Clark said. “It which was successful to some
By MOLLY SAMMON 

Clark said. “They’re a good fought back after being two was a combination of maybe extent, but we weren’t able to 
Sports Writer 

team, opened the game very goals down,” Clark said. “A lot the goalkeeping on their part finish.” 
well, and didn’t let us settle, of teams would surrender at and some badluck on our part. With only eight minutes left 
Despite a momentum burst in but I was very pleased with that point, but I thought we They were economic with their in the game, the Irish offense the second half, the No. 22 howweresponded.” really responded well. Ifelt scoring.” was able to connect to break Irish lost their first Big East West Virginia took an early sorry for the team, I thought Though they were outplayed away from a potential shutout. match of the season 2-1 leadinthegamewiththeironly theydeservedmore.” inthefirst half of the game,the Senior forward Steven Perry Saturday against West Virginia two goals of the night up on the The Mountaineers were the team started to pull together in made ashot off an assist from inMorgantown. board in the first 21 minutes. more dominant team in the thesecondhalf. sophomore midfielder Dillon 
“Of all of the teams in the Big The final result ended Notre first half of the game, putting “I think we just set up the Powersin82ndminute. East, they take the most out of Dame’sfour-gamewinstreak. up three shots on goal, and pressure. We knew we had to “Perry has been playing very us. It’s one of the hardest “I was obviously disappointed leadinginsaves. get back in the game,” Clark places we’ve visited out of the with the result, but I was very “They’re athletic, and they’re said. “We pressed very hard, see CLARK/page 14 
ND VOLLEYBALL 

Big East winning streak ends 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame saw its 19-match Big East regular season win streak snapped by Louisville Saturday before dropping its sec­ond straight to No. 21 Cincinnati onSunday. 
“I think that we had some bright spots and I think that at timeswestruggledagainstbothof these teams,” Irish coach Debbie Brown said. “I feel like some of the things in the past, in particu­lar our serving, which has been verygoodforus,wasnotasgood as wewouldhavelikedittobe, I meanthat’sabigkeyforoursuc­cess. We played against some teamsthatwerephysicallyhigher abovethenet.” 
see BROWN/page 14 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Achowa returns from FIBA championships 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Natalie Achonwa is done missingthingsatNotreDame. 
The freshman forward had a good reason to be away from campus: she spent most of September playing for Team Canadainthe2010FIBAWorld Championship for Women in theCzechRepublic. 
Achonwa, 17, was the youngest player on her team and one of only three NCAA players at the tournament. She played in all eight of Canada’s games and was fourth on her team with an average of 4.6 points per game and third with 3.9assistspergame. 
Achonwa returned to Notre Dame Monday night, and got back to work quickly. In fact, Irish coach Muffet McGraw said, the coaches couldn’t keep heraway. 
“She got back Monday night late, came to the 7 a.m. work­out Tuesday morning, came backintheafternoonforapost workout, came in Wednesday to shoot,” McGraw said. “I mean, we’re excited that she’s got that interest, but she really needstorest.” 
Achonwa did not work out with the Irish over the summer because she was playing with Team Canada, so she has not been able to spend very much 
see MCGRAW/page 17 

IRISH INSIDER 
THE 

Monday, October 11, 2010 observer Notre Dame 23, Pittsburgh 17 
Two straight 
Another fast start and late drama result in Notre Dame’s second straight win 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
Once again a quick start and ugly finish resulted in a Notre Dame victory. After taking a 17-3 lead into halftime, the Irish held on for a 23-17 vic­tory over Pittsburgh Saturday. 
“We got off to a pretty good start offensively, but as we’ve shown, we are really good at stubbing our toe,” Irish coach Brian Kelly said. “That’s us, so you’re going to have to get used to it, because I’m trying to get used to it.” 
Junior quarterback Dayne Crist had one of his best per­formances of the year, on his 21st birthday, racking up 242 passing yards on 24 comple­tions, including a first-quarter touchdown pass to junior wide receiver Michael Floyd. Crist added a 10-yard scramble for a score midway through the second quarter and did not turn the ball over all day. 
“He saw some things today that he feels better about,” Kelly said. “He’s making progress.” 

The Panthers opened the scoring halfway through the first quarter with a 26-yard field goal, but the Irish responded with a methodical, fast-paced drive that culmi­nated in the Floyd-Crist con­nection for the Notre Dame lead. Pittsburgh would miss a field goal before allowing a 15-play, 80-yard drive capped game.” by the Crist run that gave the Senior kicker David Ruffer Irish a 14-3 lead. added the first of his three 
“They had us off-balance field goals in the second quar­defensively with the no-hud-ter to give the Irish a 17-3 dle offense lead heading at a faster into the lock-
tempo than w e c o u l d h a v e e v e r practiced,”  “We need to win games, and it’s not a beauty contest yet for us ... We’ll  er room, and op e n e d t h e scoring in the se c o n d half  
Pittsburgh coach Dave Wannstedt  micromanage this and talk about what we could have  w i t h a 5 0 -yard field goal t h a t  
said. “They  done and should have done  impressed his  
did a jo b .  good T he y  on Monday.”  coach. “ N o b o d y  
w er e v e r y e f f i c i e n t  Brian Kelly  w ou l d hav e t h ou g h t 5 0  
early.”  Irish coach  yards was like  
The Irish  a u t o m a t i c , ”  
h a d  n o t  K e l l y  s a i d .  

shown this tempo in earlier “He kicked that thing into the games, but Crist said that it net — I had to look twice that had always been part of the it was 50 yards. He’s just been team’s offensive scheme. outstanding.” 
“We’ve really been doing it The Irish offense, however, since the summer, and you began to sputter just as the can just see the way that we Panthers found their rhythm. 
operate it, it can be very Pittsburgh found the end zone effective,” he said. “It’s nice on a rush from sophomore being able to switch the quarterback Tino Sunseri late tempo at any point in the in the third quarter and had most of the momentum head­ing into the fourth quarter. 

Notre Dame looked poised to regain control, driving from its own 16-yard line to the Panther 15, but the offense failed to punch the ball into the end zone, leading to Ruffer’s third and final field goal that gave the Irish a 23­10 lead with under ten min­utes remaining. 
On the ensuing drive, facing third-and-two near midfield, Sunseri rolled to his right and found junior wide receiver Jon Baldwin all alone for a 56-yard score that stunned the home fans and brought Pittsburgh within one score. Though the Irish had con ­tained Baldwin, the Panthers’ most explosive threat, for most of the game, it seemed that he had slipped free at the worst possible time. 
“You can’t leave Baldwin by himself all the time,” Kelly said. 
When the Irish ran seven plays on the next drive and failed to score even a field goal, sophomore punter Ben Turk was able to pin the Panthers on their own 10­yard line, setting up a three-and-out with just over three minutes remaining. 
Notre Dame got the ball back in a position to run out the clock, but failed to convert more than one first down, giv­ing the ball back to Pittsburgh on its own 7-yard line thanks to another punt from Turk. 
“We flipped the field posi­tion today,” Kelly said. “Ben Turk was outstanding punting the football.” 
The Panthers looked to advance down the field and set up a possible game-win­ning score, but strong defen­sive line pressure and solid tackling from the secondary set up a fourth-and-four at the Pittsburgh 13. Sunseri looked for his favorite target, Baldwin, but senior corner­back Gary Gray was all over the play and batted the pass down, allowing the Irish to escape with a tight victory. 
“We were in good cover ­age,” Kelly said. “Gary did the right thing, reacted to the football, and came up with a big play.” 
When Crist took the final knee to run out the clock, the players celebrated the tight win with special gusto, realiz­ing the significance of the much-needed win. Though the second half was filled with Notre Dame struggles, Kelly wanted his players to enjoy the victory — untill Monday. 
“We need to win games, and it’s not a beauty contest yet for us,” he said. “I just told them, ‘Enjoy the win.’ We’ll micromanage this and talk about what we could have done and should have done on Monday. Enjoy the victory. It’s a good win.” 
Senior quarterback Darrin Walls, a Pittsburgh native, agreed with his coach. 
“It was a great win. It’s always good to beat your hometown team,” he said. “We practiced hard all week and definitely came out with a winning mentality today.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 

player of the game stat of the game play of the game quote of the game 
David Ruffer 28:38 Crist’s 10-yard touchdown run to give 
“As we’ve shown, we are really good

Irish kicker the Irish a 14-3 lead in the first quarter 
at stubbing our toe ... But that’s us. So Notre Dame held onto the ball for you’re going to have to get used to it.” Ruffer accounted for 11 of Notre 28:38 Saturday, the most time it has Crist’s run up the sideline from 10 Dame’s points, including three field done so all season. Yet the Irish rank yards out gave Notre Dame control Brian Kelly goals that were never in doubt. 118th in the country in the statistic. of the game. Irish coach 



page 2 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 11, 2010 
report card 
B 
B 
B+ 
B­B B+ 

quarterbacks: Dayne Crist completed 12 consecutive passes in one stretch, only to follow that with six consecutive incompletions. He did not throw any incompletions though. 
running backs: Aramando Allen and Cierre Wood both averaged at least four yards per carry, but they only ran the ball 20 times. The latter fact is not their fault, but it did limit their impact. 
receivers: No Irish receiver made any breathtaking ball, but they caught the ball consistently, and eliminated nearly all mis­takes. Theo Riddick continued his rise, and Michael Floyd made a nice TD grab. 
offensive line: The Irish line let Pittsburgh defensive linemen spent quite a bit of time in the Irish backfield, sacking Crist three times and hurrying him more often than that. 
defensive line: Pittsburgh was able to gain yards consistently throughout the game, but timely tackles for loss halted its serious attacks, and strong pres­sure in the fourth ended the game. 
linebackers: The Irish linebackers helped contain the Pittsburgh rushing attack from any big plays, but Pittsburgh still averaged 3.5 yards per carry, including 
5.5 from starter Ray Graham. 
defensive backs: Pittsburgh managed 272 
yards through the air, including 56 on a C+fourth quarter touchdown pass that brought the Panthers back into the ball game. 
A 
special teams: David Ruffer converted all three of his field goal attempts, including a 50-yarder that even Irish coach Brian 
Kelly admitted surprised him. Punter 
Ben Turk averaged 46.6 yards per punt. 
B 
coaching: The Irish came out ready to play Saturday, and the defense looked good from the outset. But as the game pro­
gressed, Notre Dame regressed, and that traces back to Kelly. 
3.08 

overall: Notre Dame won, and that is what matters, but the inability to put Pittsburgh away when the Irish had the chance was unnerving, as usual. 
adding up the numbers 
The Notre Dame defense recorded six tackles for losses of 18 yards in the Pittsburgh backfield, 
18
including two sacks. 

6:23 
Notre Dame’s second touchdown drive lasted 6:23, the longest scoring drive of the season, as it covered 80 yards in 15 plays. 
Crist completed 12 consecutive passes Saturday, the third-longest streak in school 
12 
history. 

19 
Michael Floyd’s first quarter touchdown recep­tion was his 19th in his career. That moves him into a tie for fifth place in school history. 
David Ruffer has connected on a field goal in each of the nine games he has started at kicker. 
9 

11 
Harrison Smith led the Irish defense with 11 tackles, one interception and two pass breakups. 
Armando Allen carried the ball 13 times for 56 yards, averaging 4.3 yards per carry, and 
4.3 

Cierre Wood added 28 yards on seven carries. 
Freshman Bennett Jackson returned four kick­83 offs for 83 yards, bringing his two-game total to 194 yards on returns. 
Can we really be happy at all with Notre Dame’s win over Pittsburgh? Wasn’t this just anoth­er example of letting a team off the hook that the Irish were much bet­ter than? Isn’t it pretty clear that Dayne Crist doesn’t have what it takes to be a successful quarterback in this offense? Isn’t this team just like last year’s? 
The nature of Notre Dame football fans 

Eric Prister 

lends itself to extreme highs Associate and extreme Sports Editor lows. A bad loss means that the Irish have no chance of beating any other teams for the rest of the sea­son, so we’ll just have to wait for next year — and fire our head coach. A good loss shows that Notre Dame can play with anyone, and that the team is just on the brink of being the best Irish team anyone’s ever seen — just wait until next year. 
A good win (like the one against Purdue) shows just how talented the Irish roster is, and how amaz­ing a coach we’ve hired and that we should be 8-3 going into USC — Utah should be a breeze. A bad win (like the win over Pittsburgh, for many) is basically a loss, because can we really expect this team to beat any talented teams, especially if they show no pride in the school and tradition which they repre­sent? 
Notre Dame beat Pittsburgh. Sure the victory was sloppy. Yes, the Irish let the Panthers back into the game and showed very little killer instinct by not scoring a touchdown in the second half. But they did beat Pittsburgh, a team that they should have beaten. And winning those games, those you should win, is a sign of a team that’s on the rise. 
Brian Kelly summed up it nicely in his post-game press conference. 
“This is not a transition year,” he said. “This is a winning year. We don’t allow [the Irish players] to grow. But they’re growing. And that’s really what we’re going through, some growing pains as we move forward. But I’m a big believ­er that you can have those and still win football games.” 
This is an Irish squad with an offense still trying to find its identi­ty. They have a quarterback who has now made six career starts, an offensive line with only two players who had ever started a game at the collegiate level before this season, and a receiver playing the position for the first time in his life. This is a transition year, whether Kelly wants to admit it or not. 
The difference is that it’s a team transitioning while still beating the teams that it should. Does anyone remember 2007, the last Irish team to play an entire season with a new quarterback? Even last year’s team (a veteran one, for all intents and purposes), if the offense had played as poorly as the offense did Saturday, would not have beaten Pittsburgh. 
Dayne Crist is not an elite college quarterback. He is a very talented player who isn’t fully comfortable running a college offense or mak­ing all the reads and throws that he needs to make over the course of a game. But when asked if Crist’s zero-interception perform­ance against Pitt was a step in the right direction, Kelly beamed. He had a look on his face that said, “Just wait. This kid’s going to be something special, and you’re just seeing the beginning.” Crist is not an elite college quarterback, but he’s going to be. It may not bring many changes on the field yet, but the attitude around the Notre Dame football program is changing. Kelly said so himself. 
“There’s something they’re start­ing to develop a little bit and that is they believe they’re going to win,” he said. “We’re not there yet, but we’re taking the right steps towards where we want to go as a football team.” 
This team is not ready to be a national powerhouse. They aren’t ready to play in a BCS bowl, and they probably aren’t even ready to beat USC. But this is the beginning of something special. They are starting to make strides in the right direction, and beating Pittsburgh, a team that the Irish should have beaten, is just one of those strides. 
The views expressed in this col­umn are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 



Ugly win is still a positive step 
Monday, October 11, 2010 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER page 3 
Irish join others by playing in pink 

TOM LA/The Observer 

The Irish sideline signals in plays to the Notre Dame offense. In honor of October as National Breast Cancer Awareness month, the Irish incorporated pink into their attire for Saturday’s 23-17 victory over Pittsburgh. 
new adidas Breast Cancer Collection’s pink, bands on the field and used pink Gatorade By MEAGHAN VESELIK navy and white Notre Dame visor. towels instead of white ones on the side-Sports Writer The team and coaches also sported the lines. They, too, were happy to help pro-
new adidas pink-accented line, wearing mote breast cancer awareness for their 
Saturday was a win for both of Irish white polos with pink and navy accents for own families, their coach and for each coach Brian Kelly’s families as the Irish won the program’s first “Pink” game and to other, Irish junior quarterback Dayne Crist on the field while supporting breast cancer commemorate October as National Breast said. research and awareness, a cause close to Cancer Awareness month, a month Kelly Crist said that supporting the cause his heart. From the pink armbands and was proud his team could support. added an extra element to the game. towels to Paqui Kelly’s pink Notre Dame jer-“Well I think college football and the NFL “Just being able to represent such a great sey and the hug she gave her husband at have embraced breast cancer and height-cause, you know, that kind of adds to the the end, Saturday’s “Pink” Game was a spe-ened its awareness nationally,” he said. whole aura of the game and the pageantry cial one. “When you can do it on the college level, of the game,” Crist said. “Obviously, with 
“Anytime you get a chance to see your you know for obviously the publicity we get how Coach Kelly was affected with breast family [it’s special], you know, because [the on TV and in the NFL, I think it’s such a cancer, that’s our leader and that’s who coaches and team] spend about 80 hours a great cause and it’s awesome that we’re were supportive of. And there’s tons of guys week,” Kelly said. “We’ve got two families: able to do that.” in the locker room who, unfortunately, were football family and our own family. So when Kelly and his wife have also supported affected by that in one way or another.” you get a chance to share it with your fami-breast cancer research through their Kelly Senior cornerback Darrin Walls, wearing ly, that’s a great day. Again, doing it at Cares Foundation. The foundation focuses a pink, navy, and gold Irish football shirt Notre Dame, it doesn’t get any better than on supporting various organizations and after the game, felt that having a “Pink” that.” causes that share similar values as the game brought the team and coaches closer 
Kelly was able to bring both his families Kelly’s in three central areas: education, together, and that the game held a lot of sig­together at the end of the game when he community and health with a focus on nificance for his team, as well as for Notre stood behind his players as they held on to women’s health and breast cancer. Dame. one another and sang the Alma Mater Kelly Cares has already worked to turn its “It’s big,” he said. “My grandma had while he could hold close his wife and son. support for breast cancer awareness and breast cancer and she overcame that. I 
Saturday’s game was a win for Kelly’s research into action in the Notre Dame think it’s big to show the support we have football family, but also for his own family community by donating to the Mike and as a team, just the concern we have, and I who has had to face the challenges of Josie Harper Cancer Research Institute in think that builds trust in coaches and things breast cancer twice before. Paqui, a two-Harper Hall. The donation brings scientists like that, so it’s a good deal. A lot of us have time survivor of the disease, now champi-from Notre Dame and Indiana University known someone who’s been dealing with ons raising awareness and early detection School of Medicine-South Bend together in breast cancer, so it means a lot and our of the disease, as well as for raising funds to cancer research to help prevent, diagnose support shows that Notre Dame cares a lot support its research. Saturday she was and treat the disease. about things other than football.” showing her support for the Irish and Kelly was not the only one who was breast cancer in head-to-toe pink, including happy to support the cause on Saturday. His Contact Meaghan Veselik at the aforementioned pink jersey and the players proudly sported pink wrist or arm-mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
Crist marks 21st birthday with victory 
two of the 120 teams in the Their next touchdown drive Ruffer’s field goals were 32-, 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 

Football Bowl Subdivision hold lasted 6:23, as Notre Dame 50-and 31-yards. The 50­
Sports Editor 

onto the ball for less time: used 15 plays to cover 80 yards. yarder is the sixth-longest field Houston at 24:03 and Middle The Irish had mounted only one goal in history, and the first of Irish junior quarterback Tennessee State at 23:57. touchdown drive longer than more than 50 yards since 2003. Dayne Crist celebrated his 21st “At the end of the day I’m not 6:23 in the last two seasons — a “Ruffer is obviously doing birthday in style Saturday, with a big time of possession guy,” drive that lasted 6:40 against things that obviously not many 242 passing yards and two total Kelly said. “I’d rather have Pittsburgh in 2009. people, including myself, touchdowns. more points on the board than thought he could do,” Kelly 
“No better present than get-time of possession and sitting Kicking, kicking, kicking said. “He’s just been outstand­ting a win on your birthday,” here going we won time of pos-Senior kicker David Ruffer ing. The kicking game and the Crist said. “The guys wished me session but we lost.” continued his streak of perfec-kickers, in particular, were very a happy birthday. We were Notre Dame ranks 82nd in tion, as he sent three kicks strong.” really celebrating the win, and the country in points per game through the field goal uprights Sophomore punter Ben Turk there’s not a better feeling.” at 24.33. Saturday. Those three field also performed above expecta­
goals brought his season total to tions Saturday. Turk entered Time of possession Touchdown marches 16, on 16 attempts. The streak the game with a net punting 
The Irish had the ball for Notre Dame had its longest of 16 consecutive successful average of 36.52, but two 51­more time than they did in any touchdown drive of the season field goals is the longest in yard punts helped his average other game this season — last week against Boston Notre Dame history, yet alone on the afternoon reach 47 
28:38. Nonetheless, Notre College, lasting 4:44, until the the longest to open a career. yards. Dame’s average time of posses-Irish scored their first touch-The previous record was held sion remains among the lowest down Saturday, covering 77 by sophomore Nick Tausch, set Contact Douglas Farmer at in the country, at 26:07. Only yards in 13 plays and 4:50. last year at 14 field goals. dfarmer1@nd.edu 
scoring summary 
1st  2nd  3rd  4th  Total  
ND  7  10  3  3  23  
PITT  3  0  7  7  17  

First quarter 
Notre Dame 0, Pittsburgh 3 
Dan Hutchins 26-yard field goal with 7:26 remaining. Drive: 12 plays, 68 yards, 6:22 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 7, Pittsburgh 3 
Michael Floyd 1-yard pass from Dayne Crist (David Ruffer kick) with 2:36 remaining. Drive: 13 plays, 77 yards, 4:50 elapsed. 
Second quarter 
Notre Dame 14, Pittsburgh 3 
Crist 10-yard run (Ruffer kick) with 8:25 remaining. Drive: 15 plays, 80 yards, 6:23 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 17, Pittsburgh 3 
Ruffer 32-yard field goal with 3:22 remaining. Drive: 5 plays, 30 yards, 2:11 elapsed. 
Third quarter 
Notre Dame 20, Pittsburgh 3 
Ruffer 50-yard field goal with 12:11 remaining. Drive: 4 plays, 1 yard, 0:50 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 20, Pittsburgh 10 
Tino Sunseri 4-yard run (Hutchins kick) with 
9:06 remaining. Drive: 10 plays, 77 yards, 4:50 elapsed. 
Fourth quarter 
Notre Dame 23, Pittsburgh 10 
Ruffer 31-yard field goal with 9:06 remaining. 
Drive: 11 plays, 69 yards, 3:21 elapsed. 
Notre Dame 23, Pittsburgh 17 
Jon Baldwin 56-yard pass from Sunseri 
(Hutchins kick) with 7:23 remaining. 
Drive: 3 plays, 64 yards, 1:43 elapsed. 
statistics 
Rushing Yards 

Passing Yards 

Penalty Yards 

Time of Possession 


passing 

Crist 24-39-242 Sunseri 27-39-272 

rushing  
Allen Wood Crist Hughes  13-56 7-28 7-5 1-3  Lewis Graham Sunseri  13-63 8-44 7-14  
receiving  
Riddick Floyd Rudolph Jones Goodman Ragone  7-75 7-59 5-38 1-37 2-15 1-11  Baldwin Shanahan Street Hynoski Lewis Graham  9-111 5-49 3-42 5-30 3-21 2-19  


page 4 The Observer • IRISH INSIDER Monday, October 11, 2010 



Irish reach .500 with victory 
Two weeks removed from a three-game losing streak, Notre Dame created another streak Saturday — a two-game winning streak — by defeating Pittsburgh 23-17. Junior quarterback Dayne Crist led Irish by recording two 
touchdowns in the first half, one a one-yard pass to junior receiver Michael Floyd and the other a 10-yard run down the sideline. Senior kicker David Ruffer converted all three of his 
field goal attempts, including a 50-yarder in the second quarter and a 31-yarder in the fourth quarter that gave the 
Irish a 13-point lead. Senior safety Harrison Smith led the Irish defense with 11 tackles and an interception. Sophomore linebacker Carlo Calabrese added nine tackles. 





Clockwise from top: Theo Riddick holds onto a pass from Dayne Crist as a Panthers defender tackles him; Harrison Smith returns an interception 15 yards; Brian Smith (58) and Ethan Johnson (90) try to block a Pittsburgh field goal attempt; Kyle Rudolph reaches for a Crist pass; Crist runs with the football after faking a handoff to Armando Allen. 




