the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 



Honorary ND degree recipients announced 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editor 
Notre Dame will award eight honorary degrees at this year’s Commencement in addition to the honorary degree it will give Commencement speaker Brian Williams, the University announced Tuesday. 
Williams, anchor of NBC Nightly News, will receive an honorary doctor of laws degree. 
The additional recipients come from a variety of backgrounds, such as education, engineering, law, philanthropy and the 
see DEGREES/page 8 


‘Every day was special’ 
Observer office manager Shirley Grauel retires after 30 years as a ‘second mother’ to many 
By JENN METZ 
Senior Staff Writer 
In the summer of 1980, Shirley Grauel turned down a job work­ing in a basement. 
A mother with young children, she called the University regard­ing an ad for an administrative secretary position. When the University called back about a new, nine-month job working with the student-run campus newspaper, she knew it was per­fect. 
“And here I am now, 30 years later, working in a basement of a building,” she said on her sec­ond-to-last day as The Observer office manager. 
Known for her hugs, her candy bowl and her daily line-up of daytime television, Shirley has been a constant presence at The Observer, and staffers over the years have come to know her as their second mother. 
“I love interacting with every­body every day. They stay the same age, but I keep getting older, but I never felt the gap,” she said. “I respected the stu­dents, and it just worked out so well.” 
Shirley’s time at The Observer has not only shaped her own life, but her family’s as well. Her daughter, Jill O’Hara, said her earliest memories of her mom are of her working at The Observer. When she was very young, Shirley would bring her to work in the LaFortune offices when she was too sick for school and she would watch “The Price is Right” with the students work­ing. 
“It took me a long time to understand what my mom meant when I’d hear her tell people that she could ‘sell her job because it’s so great,” Jill said. 
As a student at Notre Dame in the 1990s, Jill said she was touched by how much her moth­er was loved on campus. 
“When students who I didn’t even know would approach me and tell me how wonderful she is … I would smile and agree with them, and then wonder if it was odd that my mom was more pop­ular on campus than I was,” she said. 
Jill said Shirley’s love for her job and for the students who work at The Observer “is gen­uine and deep.” 
“I don’t think she realizes the hearts she’s touched over the years … but I do. She is 100 per­cent the person she appears to be: loving, committed, loyal, nur­turing,” she said. “I am incredi­bly proud that this mom to so many actually is my mom.” 
Though 30 years in one posi­tion might seem like an eternity to many, it didn’t feel that way to Shirley. 
“Every day was special,” she said. “Where else would you get hugs everyday, and students walking up to say ‘I love you?’ I could have a bad day, but I don’t ever leave here in a bad mood.” 
During her time at The Observer, Shirley has collected many memories and stories to share about the students she worked with — her second fami­ly. She recalled one staffer even calling her from the recovery room after delivering her first baby. 
“The weddings I’ve been invit­ed to, the e-mails I get that they’re having tailgates or the notes that are left on my desk every Saturday during the foot­ball season … I feel like I can go anywhere and I can find one of the former people,” she said. 
After about 10 years on the job, Shirley realized she had a lucky feeling. 
“I realized not once had I got­ten up in the morning and said, ‘Oh man, I’ve got to go to work.’ It was always, ‘I get to go to work,’” she said. “I wish every­one could experience that.” 
Observer alumni will reunite 
see SHIRLEY/page 9 



Student art showcase exhibited at the Snite 
By AMANDA GRAY 
Assistant News Editor 
Candidates for Bachelor’s of Fine Arts (BFA) and Master’s of Fine Arts (MFA) degrees have come together to display their art once again. 
The BFA and MFA thesis projects are currently on dis­play at the Snite Museum of Art and will be until May 16. 
“This annual exhibition of culminating works by seniors and third-year graduate stu­dents in the Art, Art History and Design Department demonstrates a broad aware­ness of the themes and processes of contemporary art and is often provocative,” a Snite Museum press release said. 
The Efroymson Family Fund Emerging Artists Awards were given for the fourth consecu­tive year, the press release said. 
The winners of the awards were MFA students Christopher Andrews and Ryan Bantz and BFA students Shelley Kornatz and Takashi Yoshii. 
see ART/page 8 


Student government changes hands 
Schmidt and Weber reflect on term, give advice to new staff 
By JOSEPH McMAHON 
Associate News Editor 
When outgoing student body president Grant Schmidt and vice president Cynthia Weber entered office a year ago, the duo was determined to enact initiatives to make student gov­ernment relevant to the stu­dent body. 
“We didn’t take on personal preferences,” Schmidt said. “Students were constantly giv­ing us feedback. It made our jobs a lot easier.” 
The administration soon found the best way to find out what students cared about was not through formal student 
see SCHMIDT/page 6 



Soler, Bell take office Thursday; look forward to goals for 2010-2011 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editor 
As sophomore Catherine Soler looks forward to her term as stu­dent body president, which will begin Thursday, she said commu­nity relations would be a priority for her administration. 
“A main goal of ours is for stu­dents to feel compelled to go into the community, feel safe while they’re there and also give a lot to South Bend, but also get a lot out of being an active member of the community,” Soler said. 
Student body vice president-elect Andrew Bell said strengthen­ing relations between the University and the community will 
see SOLER/page 9 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Making a Living lecture page 3  Men’s lacrosse facing Villanova page 24  Boy Meets World page 13  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Wednesday, March 31, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 



Thanks, Shirley 
Today is our beloved Shirley Grauel’s last official day as The Observer office manager. You make a lot of friends working in the same place for 30 years, and when I asked former staff members to share their memories for a special column to commemorate Shirley’s years at The Observer, I received an over­whelming response. All of those who e-mailed me shared the same message: Shirley is generous, kind, loving and a second mother to all who have had the honor of working with her. 
David Dziedzic, Editor-in-Chief, 1983-84 
It was a tremendous comfort knowing that she would be there, every day, taking care of everything. And the 
one semester that she wasn’t  
there (Craig took a job  Jenn Metz  
assignment in San Diego and  
the family went with  Senior Staff  
him),was the worst semester  Writer  
of my four years. Personally,  
I don’t know what I would  

have done without her. She was like a “guardian moth­er” placed on campus to keep me straight and focused. 
Michael Ortman, staff member, 1978-82 
I’ve stayed in touch with Shirley over the years. In the fall of 2006, my then-20-year-old son Patrick had applied to transfer to Notre Dame. I made sure we stopped by The Observer so he could meet Shirley. I told him since mom would not be moving with him to South Bend, that if he ever needed a mom, whether he worked at The Observer or not, Shirley was it. 
Patrick Peters, Ad Sales/Operations, 1999-2002 
Over the years I spent with Shirley, I learned patience, understanding, the art of listening and how to look at issues from another perspective. As we would work with Shirley in close proximity, often we’d discuss the news of the day. Shirley’s take was always genuine, compassionate, caring and open to other ideas. I miss Shirley all the time. She’s truly one-of-a­kind and deserving of all of the accolades she will receive as she heads towards retirement. 
John Lucas, Editor-in-Chief, 1995-96 
Shirley blended being a top-notch office manager with roles as our counselor, confidant and second mother. Everyone who knows here feels exactly the same way. The office will never be the same without her — we wish her all of the best with Craig in retire­ment. 
Chris Hine, Editor-in-Chief, 2008-09 
If I ever had a question about how to handle a cer­tain situation, she was always the first person I called. Everybody has their favorite Shirley moments. Whenever I talk with fellow Observer alums, we always share our favorite memories of Shirley. She is so beloved and deservedly so. She was there to comfort you and make you laugh on your worst days on the job, there to celebrate on your best days. 
Mike Gilloon, Editor-in-Chief, 2006-07 
Shirley was a constant presence for so many stu­dents. No matter what else was going on at the time, we knew that Shirley would have chocolate at her desk and the Price is Right on TV. She treated all of us like her own kids. She will be missed. 
These are just six of the dozens of Observer staffers who wrote to me about Shirley. I’m sure she’ll get lots of flowers, hugs and phone calls today. I agree with all the staffers that wrote to me for this piece: Shirley, you truly are one of the best people I have ever met, and I would not have been able to get through my time at The Observer without you. I only hope that the person who takes over your position will have as many won­derful memories as you do. 
So, from all of us, have a happy retirement, Shirley. You deserve it after 30 years. Know that everyone you have ever worked with loves you and thanks you for everything you’ve done. 
The views expressed in the Inside 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT WERE YOU AFRA D OF WHEN YOU WERE A L TTLE K D? 




“Mermaids.” “I was afraid of “My little “Drowning.” the dark.” sister.” 
HaveanideaforQuestionoftheDay?E-mailobserver.questions@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 
Robbers tunnel into Parisian bank 
PARIS — Robbers tun­nelled their way into the vault of a Parisian bank at the weekend and cracked almost 200 pri­vate safes, police said. 
The gangsters tied up the security guard at a Credit Lyonnais branch on Paris’s Avenue de l’Opera on Saturday night, before digging through a series of cel­lars to reach the vault, police said late on Monday. 
They spent several hours opening the safes and set the place on fire as they left. The value of the stolen goods is still being estimated, police said. 
Taiwan mafia boss leaves millions to charity 
TAIPEI — The family of a late Taiwanese mafia boss has donated 60 million Taiwan dol­lars (1.9 million US) to charities to fulfill the gang leader’s dying wish, the authorities said Tuesday. 
Lee Chao-hsiung, an influential triad leader in central Taiwan, died of liver cancer on March 11 aged 73, local media said. 
His son donated the money in his name to disabled people and low-income families as well as four major religious organisations, the Taichung city govern­ment said in a statement. 
About 1,000 people, including several gang bosses, attended a cere­mony on Monday to set up a make-shift shrine for Lee, known as the “mafia arbitrator,” the Apple Daily said. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
“All Art is Propaganda” will be displayed today in Special Collections Room 102 of Hesburgh Library. The exhibit will open at 8 a.m. 
Daily Mass will be celebrat­ed at 11:30 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. today in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
The Creative Writing Program will sponsor a confer­ence titled “The Open Light: A Celebration of Notre Dame Poets” today at 3 p.m. All readings will be held in Seminar Room 100-104 of McKenna Hall. 
A lecture on “On the Sociology of Exile and Identity: The Creation and Maintenance of the Cuban Exile Ideology” in Room 210­214 of McKenna Hall at 4 p.m. today. 
A Romero Days film screen­ing of MONSEÑOR (Monseñor, the Last Journey of Oscar Romero) will be held in the Montgomery Auditorium of LaFortune Student Center at 
6:45 p.m. tonight. 
The Catholic Culture Film Series titled “Close to Catholic: A Celebration of Kindred Spirits” will present a screen­ing of the film “Big Fish” at 7 
p.m. tonight in the Andrews Auditorium in Geddes Hall. 
The Mendoza College of Business will host Tommy Hilfiger at 12 p.m. on April 7 in the Eck Visitors Center Auditorium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Today Tonight THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 
Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 




CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional 
publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize 
that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so 
we can correct our error. 
Atlanta 75 / 46 Boston 48 / 42 Chicago 71 / 52 Denver 70 / 46 Houston 77 / 59 Los Angeles 61 / 46 Minneapolis 78 / 50 
New York 60 / 46 Philadelphia 65 / 45 Phoenix 65 / 57 Seattle 51 / 39 St. Louis 77 / 53 Tampa 75 / 53 Washington 71 / 51 
Wednesday, March 31, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Lecture explores non-profits 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
Those who choose to work for non-profit organizations look for a purpose and not just a paycheck, Notre Dame graduate Raymond C. Offenheiser said Tuesday evening. 
Offenheiser, president of Oxfam America, a non-profit international development and relief agency, delivered the keynote address at the eighth annual Making a Living, Making a Difference program, held in the Andrews Auditorium of Geddes Hall. 
The event, co-sponsored by the Center for Social Concerns and the Career Center, offers students information about the non-profit sector and an opportunity to explore career paths in public service. 
“You can make a good living and a good life in non-profit service,” he said. “Non-profit organizations span the politi­cal spectrum and seek employees with all kinds of talents.” 
According to Offenheiser, working for a non-profit means working in a world where learning never stops. 
“Social change happens right before your eyes and there is a constant stream of new issues,” he said. “You can never get bored at a non­profit organization.” 
Offenheiser said it is rewarding to know you are making a difference in some­one else’s life. 
“Working for a non-profit is intellectually stimulating and will fill your life with mean­ing, purpose and satisfaction,” he said. 
Although salaries tend to be lower in the public sector, there are more generous social benefits than in the pri­vate sector and you are able to receive more responsibility earlier, Offenheiser said. 
“The greatest thing about non-profit work is that it puts social teaching and social val­ues at the core,” he said. “You engage in direct service and are driven by a certain mission.” 
Offenheiser’s agency, Oxfam America, an affiliate of Oxfam International, works to fight poverty and injustice around 


SMC team competes in service competition 

the world. 
“In practice, we are front-line responders to natural dis­asters and work with other organizations that seek to address poverty,” he said. 
“Working for a non-profit has given me a chance to bond with some of the most amazing people I have ever met,” Offenheiser said. “My colleagues make me want to get up in the morning. The quality of people working in the non-profit sector is amaz­ing.” 
The evening concluded with an information fair, featuring representatives from various non-profit organizations and a fireside chat with Offenheiser. 

Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
Combining their knowledge of communication and their desire to serve, Saint Mary’s juniors Katrina Mesina and Claire Yancy are com­peting in a contest to win scholar­ships as well as a matching dona­tion to an organization of their choice. 
The two are entered in the National Association of Broadcasters Education Foundation’s (NABEF) Collegiate Call to Service. Mesina and Yancy make up one of seven teams declared finalists for the prizes. 
Mesina and Yancy worked with the South Bend Center for the Homeless during the Fall 2009 semester in a public communica­tion class. 
“Our professor, Terri Russ, heard about the scholarship and really encouraged us to do it,” Mesina said. “We were a little uneasy about it because we felt that we might not fit into the criteria for the competi­tion, but one short phone call to NABEF ensured that we should apply.” 
The two have created a program for the Center called “One Hour.” The program was designed to allow women at the Center to practice public speaking skills, as well as to bond and create confidence. 
“Next year, we will meet once a week for an hour to discuss topics such as family relationships, women’s history and body image,” Mesina said. “We’ve been meeting with a focus group, staff and pro­fessors and students at Saint Mary’s College to ensure that we’ve done the proper research to run a pro­gram like this.” 
In order to win the scholarship and donation, Mesina said the two have to write a blog about their project with the Center. They were responsible to blog about 45 days of service. 
“They will be judging based on our efforts to help our community. In addition, they are judging our creativity and use of media in our blogging,” Mesina said. 
Mesina said she and Yancy worked together, though she credits the basic idea for the project to Yancy. 
“I owe a great deal to Claire for envisioning this project,” Mesina said. “It was her idea and form there, we’ve really made it blos­som. We still have a long way to go, though, and a huge responsibility to the Center.” 
Mesina said she enjoys working at the Center. 
“I love working at the Center,” she said. “It’s very easy to lose your­self in activities and school, but giv­ing back to the community should always be a priority. The people at the Center are there because they want to make their lives better. It takes courage to want that for yourself and to work for it. It is an honor to be a part of their journey.” 


Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Wednesday, March 31, 2010 


World & Nation 
Wednesday, March 31, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Swiss aim to explain the Big Bang 
GENEVA — The world’s largest atom smasher threw together minuscule particles racing at unheard of speeds in conditions simulating those just after the Big Bang — a success that kick-started a mega-billion dol­lar experiment that could one day explain how the universe began. 
Scientists cheered Tuesday’s historic crash of two proton beams, producing three times more force than researchers had created before and marking a milestone for the $10 billion Large Hadron Collider. 
“This is a huge step toward unraveling Genesis Chapter 1, Verse 1 — what hap­pened in the beginning,” physicist Michio Kaku told The Associated Press. 
“This is a Genesis machine. It’ll help to recreate the most glorious event in the histo­ry of the universe.” 

Putin pledges to find extremists 
MOSCOW — The old Vladimir Putin is back, confronting a terrorist attack in Moscow by using the same kind of coarse and colorful language that helped him win the presidency a decade ago. 
A day after twin suicide bombings in the subway that killed 39 people, the powerful prime minister told Russians that he is cer­tain the masterminds of the attacks would be found. The security services have blamed extremists from the North Caucasus, a pre­dominantly Muslim region in southern Russia that includes Chechnya. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

NYC pays poor for good conduct 
NEW YORK — An experimental anti-pover­ty program that pays the poor for maintain­ing good habits — $25 to $150 for things such as going to the dentist, staying on the job or opening a bank account — has not exactly been life-changing. 
The payments, also known as conditional cash transfers, were modeled after success­ful similar programs in other countries, including Mexico and Brazil. 
The theory is that the cash rewards reduce immediate hardship for poor people while reinforcing small but significant actions they can take to improve their long-term stability. 
Before New York City took up the idea, it had never been attempted in the United States. 

Charter school moonlights as club 
PHILADELPHIA — Who knew a school cafete­ria could be so much fun? 
A space where hundreds of Philadelphia char­ter school students have been eating their lunches during mundane weekdays has been doubling in its off-hours as nightclub, offering dancing and drinking despite an expired liquor license. 
City and school officials are not happy about the arrangement between Club Damani and the Harambee Institute of Science and Technology Charter School, which serves about 450 children in kindergarten through eighth grade. 
Superintendent Arlene Ackerman said in a let­ter to Harambee on Monday that “a school and a nightclub cannot coexist in the same space and (the arrangement) must cease immediate­ly,” according to a school district statement. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Ammonia forces residents to flee 
TAYLORSVILLE — A dangerous ammo­nia gas leak led to the evacuation of hun­dreds of people from their homes and sent at least three people to hospitals early Tuesday, after authorities say thieves tried to steal the chemical from a farm to likely use it to make metham­phetamine. 
A passer-by notified authorities about the gas cloud and odor south of Taylorsville at about 2:30 a.m., said Lt. Rob Kittle of the Bartholomew County Sheriff’s Department. Taylorsville is 35 miles south of Indianapolis. 
ITALY 


Pope denies liability for abuse 
Vatican launches legal defense amidst accusations of negligence regarding molestation 
Associated Press 
VATICAN CITY —  
Dragged deeper than ever  
into the clerical sex abuse  
scandal, the Vatican is  
launching a legal defense  
that the church hopes will  
shield the pope from a law­ 
suit in Kentucky seeking to  
have him deposed.  
Court documents  
obtained Tuesday by The  
Associated Press show that  
Vatican lawyers plan to  
argue that the pope has  
immunity as head of state,  
that American bishops who  
oversaw abusive priests  
weren’t employees of the  
Vatican, and that a 1962  
document is not the “smok­ 
ing gun” that provides  
proof of a cover-up.  
The Holy See is trying to  
fend off the first U.S. case  
to reach the stage of deter­ 
mining whether victims  
actually have a claim  
against the Vatican itself  
for negligence for allegedly  
failing to alert police or the  
public about Roman  
Catholic priests who  
molested children.  
The case was filed in  
2004 in Kentucky by three  
men who claim they were  
abused by priests and claim AP  
negligence by the Vatican. Pope Benedict XVI faces a potential lawsuit from Kentucky men who allege that the  
Their attorney, William Vatican failed to alert police or the public about cases of molestation.  
McMurry, is seeking class- 
action status for the case,  filed in the coming weeks.  in Oregon have taken on  Joseph Dellapenna, a pro- 
saying there are thousands  Vatican officials declined to  greater significance.  fessor at Villanova  
of victims across the coun­ comment on Tuesday.  Lawyers as far away as  University Law School an  
try.  Plaintiffs in the Kentucky  Australia have said they  author of “Suing Foreign  
“This case is the only  suit argue that U.S. dioce­ plan to use similar strate- Governments and their  
case that has been ever  san bishops were employ­ gies.  Corporations.”  
been filed against the  ees of the Holy See, and  At the same time though,  “But lower level officials  
Vatican which has as its  that Rome was therefore  the hurdles remain enor­ could very well be deposed  
sole objective to hold the  responsible for their  mously high to force a for- and there could be subpoe- 
Vatican accountable for all  alleged wrongdoing in fail­ eign government to turn  nas for documents as part  
the priest sex abuse ever  ing to report abuse.  over confidential docu- of discovery,” he said.  
committed in this country,”  They say a 1962 Vatican  ments, let alone to subject a  McMurry last week filed a  
he said in a phone inter- document mandated that  head of state to questioning  new court motion seeking  
view. “There is no other  bishops not report sex  by U.S. lawyers, experts  to depose the pope;  
defendant. There’s no bish­ abuse cases to police. The  say.  Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone,  
op, no priest.”  Vatican has argued that  The United States consid­ currently Vatican secretary  
The Vatican is seeking to  there is nothing in the doc­ ers the Vatican a sovereign  of state but for years the  
dismiss the suit before  ument that precluded bish­ state — the two have had  pope’s deputy at the  
Benedict XVI can be ques­ ops from calling police.  diplomatic relations since  Congregation for the  
tioned or secret documents  With the U.S. scandal  1984. In 2007, U.S. District  Doctrine of the Faith;  
subpoenaed.  reinvigorated by reports of  Court Judge John Heyburn  Cardinal William Levada,  
The preview of the legal  abuse in Europe and scruti­ rejected an initial request  an American who currently  
defense was submitted last  ny of Benedict’s handling of  by the plaintiffs to depose  heads the Congregation;  
month in U.S. District Court  abuse cases when he was  Benedict.  and Archbishop Pietro  
in Louisville. The Vatican’s  archbishop of Munich, the  “They will not be able to  Sambi, the Vatican’s repre­ 
strategy is to be formally  Kentucky case and another  depose the pope,” said  sentative in the U.S.  



Bullying raises questions of responsibility 
in January, questions have arisen classes and a school dance with no 
Associated Press 
about how accountable school offi-visible signs of discipline. 
BOSTON — A gay teenager in New cials should be for stopping bullying. “The questions to ask are: Did they York wins $50,000 from a school dis-Barbara Coloroso, a nationally follow their own rules and did they trict that failed to stop taunts about known anti-bullying consultant, had keep Phoebe safe? Obviously not. his sexual orientation. The Justice been contacted by South Hadley And, did they deal effectively with the Department investigates complaints school officials months before bullies? Obviously not,” Coloroso told that administrators ignored racial Phoebe’s death, after a young boy in The Associated Press on Tuesday. bullying in a Philadelphia school. nearby Springfield killed himself. She Authorities say Prince, who had 
And in Massachusetts, a 15-year-spent a day there in September, recently emigrated from Ireland, old girl hangs herself after she is training teachers and administrators endured months of verbal assaults mercilessly harassed for months — on how to recognize and deal with and threats after she briefly dated a taunting and threats that school bullying. popular boy. She was harassed most-administrators knew about but did Coloroso said school officials made ly in school, but also on Facebook not stop. mistakes by failing to stop the bully-and through other electronic forms. 
Now, with nine students charged in ing and, after Phoebe hanged herself, District Attorney Elizabeth Scheibel the bullying of Phoebe Prince, who by allowing at least some of the stu-said the inaction of school officials hanged herself at her family’s home dents involved to continue to attend was troublesome but not criminal. 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 31, 2010 
COUNCIL OF REPRESENTATIVES 

Council approves new positions 

By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
The Council of Representatives (COR) approved several official positions in student government organizations at its meeting Tuesday. It was the final COR meeting overseen by outgoing student body president Grant Schmidt, vice president Cynthia Weber and chief of staff Ryan Brellenthin before president-elect Catherine Soler and vice president-elect Andrew Bell are sworn into office this week. 
Junior Marcelo Perez was unanimously approved by COR to be the Judicial Council President for the 2010-2011 academic year. Perez has served as the Judicial Council vice pres­ident for two years and said he plans to bring his past experi­ence to his new position. 
“I’ve learned you need to be totally neutral when planning the elections,” Perez said. “I’ve had to learn to be balanced for everybody and not just for a sin­gle group.” 
“[Perez] has always been ethi­cal and professional when han­dling the elections,” Weber said. “He will be a great Judicial Council president.” 
Soler presented her choice for her chief of staff, junior Nick Ruof, who was unanimously approved by COR members. 
“He is the ideal candidate and has a ton of experience,” Soler said. “He is going to do a great job.” 
Two candidates were present­ed for the positions of assistant student union treasurers. Sophomore Carl Brophy and freshman Eric Biro were both approved by COR for the 2010­2011 academic year. 
After the approvals had con­cluded, Schmidt opened the floor to COR members to provide any advice they had for Soler in her new position as student body president. 
Members recommended more collaboration with other groups, more speakers when appropri­ate in order to better inform COR members about University policy and encouragement for COR members to bring sugges­tions from their specific councils and groups get different per­spectives from the entire coun­cil. 
COR members discussed what a great year they had with stu­dent government, and Weber commended Schmidt’s role. 
“If someone should get thanks it should be Grant,” she said. “It’s been a great year for COR, and we really have Grant to thank for that.” 
Schmidt likewise thanked the members for their service to the University as members of stu­dent government for the 2009­2010 year and wished Soler luck in her future endeavors as presi­dent. 
“It’s been an awesome year, and we’ve gotten a lot done,” Schmidt said. “I think Catherine and Andrew are going to tear it up next year.” 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 


Schmidt 
continued from page 1 
surveys, but just by talking to stu­dents. 
“A lot of it is informal,” Weber said. “If you want to get the real opinions of students, you just need to be a real student.” 
From large programs ranging from the restructuring of com­mencement and the introduction of Transpo Route 7A to small things like having baskets of mints outside the dining halls, Schmidt and Weber said they attempted to focus their agenda on improving everyday student life at the University. 
“The student body at Notre Dame is on its toes,” Weber said. “They care about everything.” 
Weber said by taking care of the everyday essentials of student life, student government was able to boost its credibility in tackling worldwide social justice issues through programs such as the Global Water Initiative. 
“Things like Transpo, which did get a lot of exposure, allowed us to use the support for other pro­grams,” Schmidt said. 
Schmidt, who described his administration as “responsive,” said he was forced to tackle issues that arose at the last minute, such as improving off-campus safety after two Holy Cross students were abducted in September and sponsoring aid initiatives following the earthquakes in Haiti and Chile. 
Another goal of the Schmidt-Weber administration was to improve student government’s relations with the University administration. 
“Student government is right now and hopefully will be consult­ed before every major decision,” he said. 
Schmidt said there were not any major initiatives he wished his administration could have tackled, although he said he wished the changes in du Lac, the student handbook, had been enacted dur­ing his term and the University had not chosen to move the pep rallies to Irish Green. 
In addition, Weber said student government needed to become more involved in the academic side of the University in the long term. 
When asked what advice they had for the incoming administra­tion of sophomores Catherine Soler and Andrew Bell, Schmidt and Weber said the focus needs to be on the students. 
“Be present and energetic, and love the honor of serving the stu­dents at Notre Dame,” Weber said. 
Furthermore, Weber said the pair should continue to foster close ties with the administration but also stand up for what is needed. 
“The ability to respectfully dis­agree is key,” she said. 
Schmidt said the pair should also be aware of the complicated dynamics of community relations in the city of South Bend. 
“We currently have a very good footing with the city of South Bend,” he said. “But community relations is not something that just stops.” 
Ultimately, Schmidt and Weber feel their time in student govern­ment has been productive and personally fulfilling. 
“We wanted to be present throughout Notre Dame,” Schmidt said. “And we feel we positively changed the brand of student gov­ernment.” 
Schmidt, who is a senior, plans to attend law school next year, while Weber, a junior, said she wants to focus on her studies and become “informally involved in the University.” 
“It really has been a privilege to serve in student government, especially at Notre Dame,” Schmidt said. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 



Alumnae from Institute of Health lectures on H1N1 virus 
‘black death’ of the 14th cen-coughs and sneezes, touching considered a success because we are not immune to them 
By CAROLYNN SMITH 
tury,” Luzar said. objects touched by an infec-of rapid worldwide communi-because we are in the 21st 
News Writer 
Luzar made a point to tious person, then touching cations, and the vaccine was century. Virus and disease are explain that there have been your nose and mouth.” approved quickly and given to always just one step ahead of 
Dr. Mary Anne Luzar, a 1972 many pandemics and epi-H1N1 has affected many priority groups first, Luzar us. This was a dress rehearsal College graduate, was back on demics in the past, and people around the world. said. of what could happen in the the Saint Mary’s campus humans are knowledgeable Children and young adults are “It is very hard to know if future so we need to be pre-Tuesday night to speak about about these events. amongst those most affected. you are successful in these pared.” the H1N1 pandemic. “Over the past 300 years “Two hundred-thirty coun-endeavors. I’m proud of what This event was co-sponsored 
Luzar works for the there have been 11 influenza tries had cases of H1N1 and we did. I think we did the by College Relations and the National Institute of Health as pandemics. The Spanish today there have been around right thing. And not doing Career Crossings Office. Chief of the Regulatory Affairs Influenza in 1918 is the most 20,000 deaths due to H1N1,” anything would have been Branch in the Division of AIDS fatal event in world history Luzar said. unacceptable,” Luzar said. Contact Carolynn Smith at at the National Institute of with 20-50 million deaths,” The H1N1 response was “This pandemic taught us that csmith02@saintmarys.edu Allergy and Infectious Luzar said. Diseases. Luzar said pandemics are 
“We have to look at what we sudden disease outbreaks that can learn from are unpre­pande mics, dictable and and that’s why can also occur 
“We have to look at 
I wanted to at any time in speak tonight,” what we can learn the year. 
Luzar said. from pandemics, and “That is just L u z a r something we 
that’s why I wanted to 
opened her have to deal presentation speak tonight.” with and pre­by defining the pare for,” differences Luzar said. 
Dr. Mary Anne Luzar 
between an “But once a
National Institute of Health
epidemic and pandemic a pandemic appears it does and making not just go sure there was a clear under-away. It will continue for standing between the two. years, which is why we need 
“An epidemic is a disease to pay attention to H1N1.” that occurs with greater fre-Luzar also said the H1N1 quency than expected,” Luzar virus is a distant cousin of the said. “Some examples are the 1918 Spanish Influenza but is Bird Flu and SARS. A pan-still an entirely new virus. demic is an epidemic that “Symptoms of H1N1 are spreads all over the world or similar to the flu but with a major region of the world. additional symptoms like diar-These include AIDS, TB, rhea,” Luzar said. “It spreads Malaria, Spanish flu, and the through respiratory droplets, 

The Observer 


Business
Wednesday, March 31, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

IN BRIEF 
Employees sue Bank of America 
NEW YORK — Bank of America Corp. and Merrill Lynch have made female employees "second-class citizens" by purposely giving their male counterparts opportunities to make more money, according to a gender discrimi­nation lawsuit filed Tuesday. 
The suit brought in federal court in Brooklyn by two former Bank of America financial advisers and one current Merrill Lynch broker accuses upper management of favoring men over women by giving them bigger bonuses and "plum business opportunities" that "groomed them for success." 
The women also allege that the companies sought to punish them when they complained about the inequalities. One claims that after she protested, she was yelled at and ordered to seek pre-approval when expensing business lunches — something men never had to do. 
"Beneath the veneer of a world-class finan­cial institution, the defendants treat their female financial advisers as second-class citi­zens," the complaint says. 

Calif. home price index rises 
LOS ANGELES — A surprisingly strong rebound in California's real estate market helped lift a key home price index for the eighth month in a row. 
That's good news for people who plan to sell their homes this spring. Prices are now up almost 4 percent from the bottom in May 2009, but still almost 30 percent below the May 2006 peak. 
Prices rose 0.3 percent from December to January on a seasonally adjusted basis, according to the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller 20-city home price index released Tuesday. Prices increased in 12 cities in the index. 
The biggest monthly gain was in Los Angeles, where prices rose 1.8 percent from December. And real estate agents say there's a distinct sense the worst of the downturn is over. 
Buyers are "seeing that prices are creeping up," said Tony Middleton, a real estate agent with ZIP Realty who concentrates on the San Fernando Valley. "They're losing bids on homes and they have to bid again." 


Verizon, Apple may join forces 
The iPhone may soon be available on cellular networks other than AT&T 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE — Apple Inc. shares reached an all-time high Tuesday after a news­paper report said the iPhone could find a new 
U.S. sales outlet through Verizon Wireless. 
Since its 2007 launch, the iPhone has been avail­able in the U.S. only to subscribers of AT&T Inc., which uses a cellular net­work technology called GSM. 
The Wall Street Journal reported late Monday that Apple plans to release an iPhone this year that would work on CDMA net­works — a technology used by Verizon Wireless and Sprint Nextel Inc. in the U.S., as well as some carriers overseas. 
Apple and Verizon declined to comment on the matter. AT&T spokesman Mark Siegel said the iPhone will be an important device for the company for quite some time. 
AT&T has thrived as the sole U.S. iPhone carrier despite paying a massive subsidy to Apple for the exclusive rights to offer the phone. At the end of 2009, it was the second-largest wireless carrier behind Verizon Wireless in AmTech, estimates AT&T works of China Telecom $235.85, a 1.5 percent terms of subscribers. pays Apple $450 per Ltd. and South Korea's SK gain for the day. Apple's 
But the iPhone's popu-iPhone, more than the Telecom. stock has jumped about 13 larity has taxed AT&T's $300 he estimates all other Several analysts said it percent this month in networks in cities such as carriers pay per device. appears AT&T will still be anticipation of the iPad New York and San But having more than the only iPhone carrier in launch, which begins Francisco, leaving the car-one U.S. iPhone carrier the U.S. at least through Saturday. rier vulnerable to an can only help Apple, 2010. Shares of Verizon aggressive ad campaign Marshall said. In the U.K., Marshall believes Apple Communications Inc., from Verizon. AT&T said in Canada, Brazil and extended the deal until which owns a majority of January it would spend an France, the most recent 2011 in exchange for a Verizon Wireless, rose 2.6 additional $2 billion to markets to switch from a flexible data plan for the percent Tuesday, while the improve its network this single iPhone carrier to iPad, Apple's new tablet stock of its partner, year. multiple, unit sales took off device. People who buy Vodafone Group PLC, 
Apple and AT&T have when customers on more iPads with cellular data edged up 0.8 percent. not said when their exclu-carriers could choose the connections can pay AT&T AT&T dropped 2.1 per­sive deal will end, though phone. month by month for serv-cent. Also hurt were some analysts have pre-Morgan Keegan analyst ice, instead of having to shares of Palm Inc. and dicted Apple will begin Tavis McCourt cautioned sign a contract, and Research In Motion Ltd., offering the iPhone that it's not certain that choose a $15 or $30 two makers of smart through multiple U.S. car-Apple and Verizon could monthly plan based on phones that rival the riers sometime after it agree on terms for an data consumption. iPhone and are available unveils the next-genera-iPhone that runs on CDMA Apple shares rose as through Verizon Wireless. tion iPhone this summer. networks. CDMA capability high as $237.48 on Palm shares lost 3.6 per-
Brian Marshall, an ana-could also be used to get Tuesday, an all-time peak, cent and RIM fell 1 per­lyst for Broadpoint the iPhone onto the net-before pulling back to cent. 



Nissan to sell lower-priced electric car 
Associated Press rechargeable electric car later this those will come out after the Volt and year, said that it will look at Nissan's Leaf hit showrooms in December. The 
NEW YORK — Nissan Motor Co. said pricing before announcing the Volt's Volt and Leaf are the first two electric Tuesday its new electric car will cost price closer to its December sales date. cars to go on sale that will appeal to just over $25,000 in the U.S., a move "I think it's fair to say their pricing, the mass market. that could force rivals to lower prices it won't overwhelm, but it will have Orders in the U.S. start April 20 and on similar vehicles. some influence on our pricing deci-Nissan is aiming for 25,000 orders by 
The Leaf, a four-door hatchback due sion," said GM spokesman Rob December. in showrooms late this year, will have Peterson. Nissan says the Leaf will cost 3.76 a base price of $32,780, but buyers GM was looking to price the Volt, million yen ($40,000) in Japan. It will can get a $7,500 electric vehicle tax which can go 40 miles on full electrici-price the car lower in the U.S. because credit, Nissan said. ty before a small gas engine kicks in to it wants to sell more of them in that 
The price tag puts the Leaf, which provide power, around $35,000. It market. The automaker says it is con-can go up to 100 miles on a single would cost $27,500 with the tax credit. fident it can still make money at that charge from a home outlet, within But GM executives have said they price. reach of mainstream car buyers, and are trying to lower the price as they But Erich Merkle, president of the it also will force competitors to begin building models at a Detroit fac-consulting company Autoconomy.com respond when they introduce their tory. in Grand Rapids, Mich., said Nissan cars. Other competitors, such as Ford may be deliberately setting the price 
General Motors Co., which also will Motor Co. and Chrysler Group LLC, low and may even lose money to begin selling its Chevrolet Volt also plan to sell fully electric cars, but establish itself as the market leader. 
page 8 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Wednesday, March 31, 2010 

ND partners with YMCA 
Special to The Observer 
The University of Notre Dame Nonprofit Professional Development recently announced a new agreement with YMCA of the USA to pro­vide executive education to the service organization’s leaders. The program is aimed at exec­utives at the vice president level. 
“The University of Notre Dame is committed to helping others as an outgrowth of our Christian faith,” said Marc Hardy, director of Nonprofit Executive Programs at the Mendoza College of Business. “We understand the impor­tance of having excellent lead­ership skills and being a good steward of resources. Our expertise combined with the YMCA will be of great benefit to both organizations and most importantly to the attendees.” 
The training will take place in Notre Dame’s executive classroom space at the Santa Fe Building in downtown Chicago. It consists of two four-day sessions – one Aug. 24 to 27, followed by a second Nov. 16 to 19 – plus a field project. The format allows the execu­tives to gain education without losing a significant amount of job time. 
Participants earn a certificate from the Notre Dame Nonprofit Professional Development upon completion. 
The focus of the program is to help managers make the transition to a larger leader­ship role, Hardy said. This includes such topics as devel­oping a philanthropic culture, managing the media, communi­ty relations, financial manage­ment and transparency, and nonprofit board leadership. 
Nonprofits are finding greater need for leadership training as they face high levels of CEO retirement at the same time that demand for services is increasing and becoming more complex. A recent Conference Board report found that the nonprofit sector will need to recruit as many as 80,000 executive leaders by 2016. 
“A lot of people come into the nonprofit career path because they have a heart for it. They want to do good,” Hardy said. “They come from all walks of life, but not typically from a business background. Yet non­profits are complex and often very large organizations that require specific business skills to operate them at the highest levels. Our program helps fill the gaps in knowledge.” 



Degrees 
continued from page 1 
Church. 
Steven Brickner, a leader in antibacterial drug development, will be awarded a doctor of sci­ence degree. Brickner’s research helped lead to the discovery of Zyvox, the first oral drug to treat penicillin-resistant strains of strep and staph infections. More than two million people have been treated with Zyvox since its creation in 2000. 
Scott Cowen will receive a doc­tor of laws degree. As president of Tulane University, Cowen has led Tulane to major growth in donations and student applica­tions. He also created a plan to rebuild the university’s facilities after Hurricane Katrina flooded 70 percent of its uptown campus and dispersed all of its students in 2005. 
Archbishop Demetrios Trakatellis will also be awarded a doctor of laws degree. He was appointed primate of the Greek Orthodox Church in America and he previously taught Biblical studies at the Holy Cross School of Theology in Brookline, Mass. After the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, he presided at many memorial services and funerals for the victims. 
The University will award Fr. Reginald Foster a doctor of laws degree. Nicknamed “the Pope’s Latinist,” Foster is considered an expert on the Latin language and has worked in the “Latin Letters” section of the Vatican for many years translating Church docu­ments into Latin. In 2006, Foster founded a free Latin academy for English speakers wishing to learn the language or improve their Latin skills. 
MaryAnn Mathile, a top philan­thropist, will receive a doctor of laws degree. She is the chief executive officer, board chair and treasurer of the Mathile Family Foundation. Mathile and her husband, Clayton, established their foundation to support chil­dren and families in the Dayton, Ohio area. Among the founda­tion’s largest gifts was an aca­demic building at Saint Mary’s College. 
Marc Maurer, a 1974 Notre Dame alumnus, will receive a doctor of laws degree. Maurer, who was blinded by an overex­posure to oxygen after birth, now serves as president of the National Federation of the Blind (NFB). Under his leadership, NFB has expanded its headquarters and accelerated development of innovative education, technology, products and services to facili­tate the independence of blind people. 
Ted McCourtney, who graduat­ed from Notre Dame in 1960, will receive a doctor of engineer­ing degree. McCourtney was the lead partner of Venrock for 30 years. Venrock was an early investor in Apple Computer and the chip-maker Intel. McCourtney has also served on the University’s Board of Trustees and he remains an Emeritus Trustee. 
Cardinal Cormac Murphy-O’Connor will receive a doctor of laws degree. A native of England, Murphy-O’Connor served as rec­tor of the Venerable English College in Rome, was archbishop of Westminster and president of the Catholic Bishops Conference of England and Wales. Pope John Paul II made him a cardinal in 2001. His ministry is well known for his ecumenical work, the pro­tection of human life and the rights of immigrants. 
In addition to these honorary degrees, the University will award the Laetare Medal, its highest honor, to Dana Gioia, poet and former chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts (NEA) at the Commencement ceremony. 
Last year, much controversy surrounded the University’s deci­sion to award President Barack Obama with an honorary doctor of laws degree. Obama was the ninth U.S. president to be award­ed with an honorary degree, a March 20, 2009, press release said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
Art 
continued from page 1 
“The gallery showing means a lot,” Yoshii said. “We’re one of the only schools that allow us to actually display our designs in an actual art museum, and in a great art museum.” 
Yoshii’s project “Revolution” has been in design since last July. The project focuses on wheel­chair design. 
“I went through a lot of research … talking to physi­cal therapists, spending a day in a wheelchair, trying to cook in a wheelchair, and from there it’s the concept development,” Yoshii said. 
BFA student Andrew Pautler said he enjoys Yoshii’s work. 
“My favorite project is probably Takashi Yoshii’s project,” Pautler said. “He thought of a totally new way to think about the wheel­chair and designed one that could really help handi ­capped people add ease and functionality to their daily lives. The rendering of the final wheelchair is crazy awesome.” 
Pautler’s BFA project, titled “New City Catholic Church,” is also featured in the Snite. 
“I knew I wanted to do something related to the Catholic Church,” Pautler said. “From my own experi­ence and personal research over the past 12 months, I found that the Catholic Church in many ways is extremely outdated and is in fact dying in many ways.” 
His project creates a hypo­thetical Catholic parish that offers recommendations and resources for parishes around the country. 
BFA student Katherine Campbell said she is excited to have her artwork shown in the gallery. 
“It was quite surreal to see my thesis on the wall during the opening with so many people viewing it,” Campbell said. “It is a great honor both as a student and a designer. I will never forget the experience.” 
Campbell’s “Love & Dignity” is a digital print design for a stained glass window triptych, inspired by Pope John Paul II’s “Theology of the Body.” 
“Everyone did such a won­derful job and the entire exhibit looks amazing with our hard work displayed in the gallery,” Campbell said. 
BFA student Matthew Degnan began his “Rex,” a large-scale sculpture robot, last fall. 
“I began construction when I came back to campus on January 5,” Degnan said. “I finished the skeleton by mid-February and spent the last month sheeting the work in plastic, painting it and adding decals.” 
Through their theses, many of the students looked forward to future career plans. 
“Working on a large-scale work has motivated me to hopefully pursue a career as a scenic designer,” Degnan said. 

Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

Wednesday, March 31, 2010 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 9 


Shirley 
continued from page 1 
game for a retirement party for Shirley, an event she is very excit­ed about. 
“I can’t wait to see everyone,” she said. 
Preparing to return to campus for the reunion party, Observer alumni shared memories of Shirley. 
Bruce Oakley, Class of 1980, returned to 
campus looking move 
“I’ve been incredibly
for a job after without her, both graduation and blessed to have known from a personal started working Shirley for the past and a profession-with Shirley at al standpoint, but 
three years, and I
The Observer on behalf of the after serving as can’t thank her enough entire staff, a copy editor his for the countless Shirley, I wish senior year. you nothing but 
smiles and hugs that
He’ll be com-the best as you ing back again have brightened long enjoy your retire-for the party, nights and early ment. We will and told stories miss you.” 
mornings in the office.” 
of those early Now that her years: installing time at The typesetting Matt Gamber Observer has machines, lis-Editor-in-Chief come to a close, dous, steadying force: calm, fun and kind. She was in the eye of the hurricane, with the chaos that is The Observer swirling all around her,” he said. 
The current staff, including Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber, isn’t quite ready to Shirley go. 
“I’ve been incredibly blessed to have known Shirley for the past three years, and I can’t thank her enough for the countless smiles and hugs that have brightened long nights and early mornings in the office,” Gamber said. “It will be a challenge to forward 
tening to Blondie, babysit­ting for Shirley’s children. 
“Shirley proudly shared her life with us,” he said. “She has strength enough for a family that’s been growing for 30 years. 
“My message to Shirley: ‘Mom, the kids are all right. And we’re coming home.’” 
Though it hasn’t always been smooth sailing in The Observer office, the staff was always able to rely on Shirley, said John Lucas, a member of the Class of 1996 who served as Editor-in-Chief from 1995-96. 
“Shirley always was a tremen-Shirley said she is 
“going to become a traveler and a full-time grand­ma.” 
Shirley has plans for an Alaskan cruise this June with her husband Craig, also retired, and the Grauels are renting a condo in Florida for four weeks next spring. 
“If Craig wasn’t at home, I probably wouldn’t be retired … but things happen for a reason, and it’s time,” she said. “Thirty years … that’s enough.” 
Contact Jenn Metz at jmetz@nd.edu 


Soler 
continued from page 1 
As sophomore Catherine Soler looks forward to her term as student body president, which will begin Thursday, she said community relations would be a priority for her administration. 
“A main goal of ours is for students to feel compelled to go into the community, feel safe while they’re there and also give a lot to South Bend, but also get a lot out of being an active member of the communi­ty,” Soler said. 
Student body vice president-elect Andrew Bell said strength­ening relations between the University and the community will be a mutually beneficial relationship. 
“Not only will we benefit from a positive relationship with the community, but it’s better for both sides if we work together,” he said. “They are the people 
that surround us. No one wants to stay on campus and the community members don’t want to avoid students.” 
To fulfill this goal, Soler said she would work for the continuation of Transpo and hopes to get a traffic light to continuing the focus on stu­dents taking care of themselves when they are out in the com­munity, being respectful and also being aware of their sur­roundings,” Soler said. “We’ve seen a lot of success in the beginning stages.” 
Soler also said she plans to host April Awareness Month, a new campaign in which student government will raise aware­ness for various charities, fundraisers and service opportu­
terms of off-nities. 
“We’ve seen a lot of 
campus safety A p r i l
success in terms of
and we want Aw areness 
to continue off-campus safety and Month will be a along that we want to continue way to combine line.” their passion for 
along that line.” 
Bell said they service and stu­have also dent govern-explored the Catherine Soler ment, Soler idea of obtain-student body said. ing class credit Events will 
president-elect
through involvement in the community. For example, a one-credit class could involve going to the monthly Northeast Neighborhood Council meetings, he said. 
“You will advance your educa­tion while becoming directly immersed in the community,” 
“Not only will we beneft from a positive relationship with the community, but it’s better for both sides if we work together.” 
Andrew Bell student body vice president-elect 
he said. “We think that’s a really great way to become involved.” 
For the remainder of the current school year, Soler said she would also pur­sue a textbook rental system, which was part of her platform. 
“We really are include 
Communiversity 
Day, a student government Relay for Life team and The Bald and The Beautiful, an event where stu­dents will cut their hair to bene­fit childhood cancer research. 
“We’re both participating,” said Soler, who will cut eight inches off her hair, while Bell will shave his head. 
Bell said April Awareness Month is also a way to connect with the student body. 
“It’s reflective of the fact that we represent a very service-ori­ented student body,” he said. “We are entering into a climate where service is very important so this is just a result of that.” 
Soler and Bell said they are grateful for the opportunity to serve the student body and look forward to working with stu­dents to enhance the Notre Dame experience. 
“We’re more energized than ever,” Soler said. 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
installed at the intersection of Twyckenham Drive and Vaness Street, which is highly traveled by students. 
“We are also looking forward pushing for the rental textbook system to come about in the fall,” she said. “We’re working with the bookstore as well as business operations. We’re in 

The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 10 Wednesday, March 31, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
Rejecting the routine 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 pcoveney@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Amanda Gray Michael Bryan Megan Doyle Molly Sammon 
Caitlyn Kalscheur Luke Mansour Graphics Scene Sofia Iturbe Caitlin Ferraro Viewpoint Patricia Fernandez 
When I was entering seventh grade, I decided that I wanted to be a good bas­ketball player. When I let my aspirations known to my parents, my dad said that he was happy for me, but he then pro­ceeded to tell me exactly how it Andy Ziccarelli was going to happen. Over the Moment of summer, I was to Inertia run for a mile and shoot 100 free throws every day. In hindsight, that may not seem like a whole lot of work, but for a 12-year old that would have been perfectly content eating candy and playing video games every day all summer, it was like a death sentence. So each day, begrudgingly, I rolled out of bed and worked out, usually after about an hour of bickering with my mom about it. Not surprisingly, I became a pretty good player and even won a few free throw shooting contests in middle school. 
My blooming basketball career, though, is not the point of the story (my career was doomed after I failed to grow anoth­er inch beyond sixth grade). The point is that my dad instilled a routine in me, where I could count on doing the same thing day after day and, naturally, would become used to it. And that was the case. After a few weeks, running a mile and shooting 100 free throws really didn’t seem so bad, it just became a part of life. 
We all came to Notre Dame looking for an extraordinary experience. Notre Dame is different, they told us, and for many of us, that extra mystique is what drew us to this place. However, once you have spent a few years here, you pretty much have things figured out. You know the shortest route from your room to all of you class­es, you know when to avoid the rush at the dining hall, and you have your favorite study spot picked out. For me, earlier this semester, there was probably a two week stretch where I followed the exact same routine every day: Wake up, eat, go to class, eat dinner and then go finish schoolwork. You would really only ever find me either in my dorm room, 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Insist on yourself; never imitate...Every great man is unique.” 
Ralph Waldo Emerson
U.S. philosopher 
DeBartolo, South Dining Hall or on the first floor of the library, because that was the most efficient way to go about life. It was like being Bill Murray’s character, Phil, in the movie “Groundhog Day,” where he keeps waking up and living the exact same day over and over and over again. One day, as I passed the same per­son in the blue hat (who I’ve never met, but still recognize), at the same place and the same time on my way to class for the third Wednesday in a row, like clockwork, it struck me: Notre Dame had become ordinary. Instead of responding to “How are you?” with a positive, upbeat response, I found myself giving answers like “getting by” and “surviving.” What had become of my experience? I decided that I needed to give myself a shot in the arm. 
It started with little things. I decided that I was going to mix up my routine and walk to DeBartolo from Dillon along South Quad, not under the Law School Arch, if for no other reason than a change of pace. As it turned out, the very first time I did that, I ran into a good friend of mine whom I hadn’t seen in a few weeks and we found a time to meet up for dinner. Obviously, not every walk down the quad ends up in a dinner date, but I would have never seen her had I chosen to walk to class along my regular path. In addition, I made it a goal to eat lunch at every dining establishment on campus before the end of the semester. As we all know, the dining hall can get repetitive; especially if that is the only place you eat for weeks at a time. This turned out to be an worthwhile goal, because now I have discovered awesome places to eat like Café Poche in Bond Hall, Greenfields and, my personal favorite, Decio Commons, all places that I had never set foot in during my first five semesters on campus. 
But beyond just going new places, I still felt like I needed to do more. With that in mind, I decided to sign up and attend the Notre Dame Encounter No. 105 retreat this past weekend. I will say this: it was one of the best decisions I have ever made. NDE was one of my favorite week­ends during my entire three years here at Notre Dame. It wasn’t specifically any one activity that we did on the retreat (though I enjoyed everything) that made the weekend and it wasn’t just the fact that my small group’s theme was based on the movie “Space Jam” (though that certainly helped); it was the people. Having been at Notre Dame, we sometimes forget that what makes this university great is the truly special student body that chose to attend school here. And on an NDE, you are placed in contact with 55 other amaz­ing people, most of whom you have never spoken to before, in a setting where you can really learn their stories. And, to shamelessly steal a phrase from my small group leader, I love to hear other people’s stories; something that I had lost sight of during my day-to-day monotony. At one point near the end of the weekend, I was in a group of four people talking: one freshman, one sophomore, one junior and one senior, all in four different majors. We had been complete strangers no more than 36 hours beforehand. In spite of all that, though, we carried on all the way until we could no longer stay awake, and it was at that point, as I headed to bed, that I realized just how many truly amaz­ing people there are here that I had yet to encounter. What if I chose not to sign up for the retreat and we never had the chance to meet? 

Amazing personalities are all around you here. You walk by them every day without even giving them a second glance. We all do. Hopefully, though, you can make the most of it, and not let your experience here on campus pass you by without making the most of it. I know I certainly intend to from here on out. 
Andy Ziccarelli is a junior majoring in civil engineering. He can be reached at aziccare@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Failures are finger posts on theroad to achievement.” 
C. S. Lewis British novelist 

The Observer 






Viewpoint 
Wednesday, March 31, 2010 page 11 
HEI: Still an issue 
Despite the fact that we are no longer sporting our incredibly sexy and stylish orange jumpsuits this week, the issue of Notre Dame’s investment in hotel company HEI is still a pressing one. 
After extensive research and hav-
Sarah Furman 
ing conversations with current and former HEI 
Guest 
employees, it is 
Columnist 
becoming increas­ingly clear HEI is a company whose actions are unethical. Their employees in multiple hotels have felt mistreated and ignored to the point where they have decided to call for a union but are facing many difficulties. We have not been “fed lies” by UNITE HERE!, the union working on the HEI campaign. Rather, we have read on our own and spo­ken with workers. Our conclusions are not from a place of ignorance. 
Scott C. Malpass, Chief of Notre Dame’s Investments Office, claims he has spoken to employees of these hotels. In our meet­ing last spring, we asked him what that meant. His response: he had stayed in an HEI hotel and asked those who served him in the hotel what they thought of their job. 
What employee of a hotel, when approached by a well-dressed, wealthy-looking guest in their establishment would risk their job and bad-mouth their compa­ny? Of course Malpass has heard nothing but good things; other than those workers he has only spoken with CEOs and human resources, whose job is to make HEI look good. 
We have actually spoken to employees and received honest responses. At different hotels, workers report increases in work­loads, reduced hours, layoffs, elimination of job functions and even shortages in cleaning supplies. These are not lies spread by the union; they are factual sto­ries told by the workers. 
Also, HEI is clearly anti-union. In fact, they spent over $90,000 in 2008 alone on anti-union consultants, whose entire pur­pose is to help the company keep unions out of their hotels. The information for 2009 has yet to be made public, but we fear that this number has increased. In 85 percent of union drives, the employees face intimidation by the employer. It is not sur­prising that HEI is using the same tactics. 
Malpass is correct in that HEI denies committing unfair labor practices and has not yet been found guilty by the National 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
One Book, One Michiana 
Although we often forget it, as stu-and a creative writing contest for grade dents of Notre Dame we are also mem-school children sponsored by the bers of the South Bend population. If Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore. you want to break out of the “Notre On behalf of Literacy Awareness Dame bubble” in an easy and fun way, Notre Dame (LAND), an on-campus consider participating in the One Book, club that promotes literacy through One Michiana campaign. awareness campaigns and volun-
The St. Joseph County Public Library teerism, and on behalf of LAND’s con-is sponsoring this annual campaign, tacts at the St. Joseph Public Library, I which creates a series of events that urge you to consider participating in build community feeling by asking the some of these exciting events. After all, entire Michiana population to read a who doesn’t love “To Kill a book, or watch a movie adaptation of Mockingbird?” that book. This year, the book is the If you would like more information, classic novel by Harper Lee, “To Kill A please refer to the St. Joseph Public Mockingbird.” Library website. 
Various events related to the novel will be held during the last week of Caitlin Wilson April and first week of May. Some Rachel Hamilton events include a courtroom re-enaction sophomores of a scene from the book, a reading of Lewis Hall the novel by the director of the movie, March 29 
Not standing strong 
“To whom much is given, much is beliefs that the Church vehemently expected.” Sue Chambers quoted this opposes. well-known saying in her challenge to In a Viewpoint last March (“Money Notre Dame to uphold the teachings of talks,” March 24, 2009), I encouraged the Catholic Church (“Dream Schools,” seniors to let their money talk. Every March 30). year, the Annual Fund hosts 
In recent times, Notre Dame has bla-“Thanksgiving in February,” a campaign tantly failed in its position as the nation’s designed to raise awareness among stu­most well known Catholic university. dents about the impact of giving gifts of The administration, most notably Fr. all sizes to Notre Dame. Once again, I Jenkins, has given in to popular opinion will encourage graduating seniors to let instead of serving as a beacon for the their money talk. Consider how the dol­teachings of the Church in an increas-lars you pledge will be spent, and if you ingly secular world. Instead of challeng-do decide to donate money to Notre ing the most pro-abortion president in Dame, be aware that you can restrict the history of the United States, Fr. your contribution to a group, residence Jenkins and the University of Our Lady hall or activity that you feel will make not only welcomed him with open arms, the best use of your dollars. but they also bestowed upon him an Notre Dame critics routinely bash the honorary degree months after he struck football team for not living up to the down a rule that prohibits American standards that have been set over the money from funding international fami-years. It is now time for the University to ly-planning clinics that promote abor-be held accountable for not standing tion. At Commencement in May, instead strong in its position as the foremost of feeling proud that I had graduated Catholic university in the United States. from the University of Notre Dame, I was ashamed and disgraced that Notre Kelly Kapshandy Dame and the administration suc-alumna cumbed to the celebrification of a man Class of 2009 who consistently supports many of the March 30 Labor Relations Board (NLRB) of doing so. But it is disconcerting that Malpass refuses to acknowledge that the Office of the General Counsel of the NLRB has issued complaints against HEI, and that HEI will defend itself against these allegations at a hearing to commence on June 7. The workers have made claims that that the NLRB’s General Counsel has determined are serious and substantiated enough to merit a formal hearing -why is Malpass ignoring them? If we wait to take action until they are found “officially” guilty, we could be waiting through years of appeals while their workers suffer in the same unjust conditions. 
Student groups at universities across the country are fighting for the same cause. In the middle of February, the president of Brown University, Ruth Simmons, wrote a letter to HEI showing her concern about their labor practices. This week, the Yale Daily News reported that, “Yale’s Advisory Committee on Investor Responsibility may reevaluate its stance on the University’s investment in HEI Hotels & Resorts in the wake of Brown University president Ruth Simmons’s letter” (http://www.yaledai­lynews.com/news/university­news/2010/03/23/univ-reconsider-contro­
versial-investment/). These two universi­ties, who are unaffiliated with any religion, have made public statements of concerns about the allegations against HEI. Why is Notre Dame, a Catholic university who claims to stand for justice and the tenants of Catholic Social Teaching, once again refusing to say anything or even discuss the issue? 
As a Catholic university, it is our call to stand on the side of those who lack power, which, in this case, are the cooks, house­keepers, bellmen and other workers within the HEI hotels. After many allegations have been made against HEI both by indi­vidual employees and by the General Counsel of the National Labor Relations Board, there is clearly reason for concern. We hope that Notre Dame continues to look into the practices of HEI and pres­sures the company to treat their workers with dignity by allowing them to form a union that will give them a voice in the workplace. 
Sarah Furman is a junior She can be reached at sfurman@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Life, liberty and the pursuit of a spoon 
Dear Management at North Dining Hall, question the efficacy of your new and 
We would like to express our sincere grat-improved utensil policy and to deny us such itude for our entertainment-filled lunch a fun-filled day of hunting. We are pleased experience today at North Dining Hall. Your that you are not merely ignorant of the stu­“Talking Spoon Scavenger Hunt” not only dent’s views, but instead stand up in the challenged our mental abilities, but it also face of student pressure to do what you gave us the opportunity for more exercise know is right. We applaud you, NDH, and and sight-seeing into some of the more may you continue your brave fight against unexplored, “southern” regions of NDH. the will of insolent students. Had the opportunity not arisen to trek to the “South Side of the Border” in our search for Matt Babcock spoons, our refined palates would have senior never been exposed to the culinary sensa-Stanford Hall tion that is California Eldorado Casserole. Ted Kratschmer We also truly appreciated your brazen dis-Chris Kratschmer play of the viewpoint letter criticizing your Brendan Corsones spoon policy. It is difficult for us to believe seniors that a member of our esteemed student Zahm Hall body would be so short-sighted so as to March 29 


Why I do care 
In the past few weeks, with the announce-That said, remember that just because ment of Christopher Hitchens coming to you are Catholic does not mean you own the Notre Dame and the unearthing of more school. This is just as much my school as it sexual abuse from Catholic priests, many is yours. As such, I have just as much right people have turned their discussions again to discuss and criticize the shortcomings of to religion and the Catholic Church. One my school. In the same light, this is just as common sentiment in these arguments is much my world as it is yours. Accordingly, I that non-believers (like the invited have the same rights to discuss and criticize Christopher Hitchens) have no reason to the shortcomings of the world. An organiza­criticize religion since they are themselves tion that covers up the sexual abuse is not religious. Furthermore, some people something I perceive as a shortcoming. have even questioned why non-believers Just because I am not part of the group would bother to attend a school that is so does not mean I cannot criticize the group. I ensconced in Catholicism if all they are am not part of many groups, but I can still going to do is argue about its Catholic poli-criticize them. The Catholic Church is one of cies. As a non-believer at Notre Dame, per-these groups. If I am part of the group, like haps I can shed light on these two ques-in the case of the university community, I tions. not only have the right to be critical, but the 
Perhaps those non-religious students still duty in order to make it better both for enjoy plenty of other things about the uni-myself and my peers. So next time you think versity. Rewarding experiences and commu-that because I'm not Catholic, this doesn't nity can be found in plenty of other areas concern me, and I should therefore stay besides religion. For example, perhaps silent, I ask you politely to remember that unique to Notre Dame is its dorm life. While the Catholic Church is a powerful organiza­parietals and single-sex dorms might be a tion whose policies do affect me even headache at times, the fellowship that is though I don’t believe. developed within dorms is unlike anything I hear about from my friends at other Andy Hills schools, including those in Greek life. It sophomore would be sad if Notre Dame's Catholicism Carroll Hall was the best thing it had going for it. March 30 
The Observer 



Scene
page 12 Wednesday, March 31, 2010 

By TATIANA SPRAGINS 
Scene Writer 
Featuring two actors you would never imagine working together in a combination of what each one does best, comedy and action, “Cop Out” is definitely not bound to feed your intellectual appetite. But it might be fun just to sit back and enjoy the jokes or watch Bruce Willis’ hilariously bad attempt at comedy. 
Tracy Morgan and Bruce Willis play the roles of two cops that have worked together for nine years and, due to a failed attempt at catching a Latin gang, are suspended for 90 days. On top of this, Paul (Morgan) thinks his wife is cheating and Jimmy (Willis) can’t afford to pay for his daughter’s wedding. Jimmy then decides to sell a baseball card he’s had since he was little to pay for the wedding. The card had been kept in perfect condition, and could therefore be worth up to $80,000 — except, when he’s selling the card two amateur robbers come into the shop, tase Jimmy and the shop owner and steal the card and everything in the cash register. Jimmy and Paul both set out to find this robber and get back the baseball card. 
Morgan’s comedy background and Willis’ affiliation to action movies made for an unusual duo. Although the film was quite funny at times, it would suddenly shift to vio­
lent scenes right after the funny ones. One or 
the other genre would have been fine, but 
the two together didn’t flow too smoothly 
since it’s usually unexpected for a joking, 
rather ridiculous scene to precede a gang 
leader executing two frightened subjects 
point blank. Willis didn’t do that bad of a job at comedy, 
although the true comedy lies in seeing him 
make an effort to 
be funny. Not to 
mention, he 
hasn’t been 
involved in 
any good proj­
ects lately — 
for a while, 
actually. Not 
since 
“The 
Sixth 
Sense ” 
has 
Willis 
had the 
opportu­
nity to 
stand 
out in a 
role, and 
“Cop 
Out” 

won’t be of any help. Out of his element and in a relatively weak movie, Willis continues on his search for the next big thing in his career. On the other hand, Morgan shines in “30 Rock” but should be working on getting roles in better movies if he wants to see his career continue to rise. In “Cop Out” Morgan sometimes tries too hard to be funny, and it can go from amusing to tiring really quickly. The first scene makes this very clear, but the rest of the movie keeps up a good pace and doesn’t over do its 
own jokes. 
“Cop Out” also counts on the appearance of Adam Brody and Seann William Scott, the latter being one of the main sources of laughter. Brody plays one of the rival officers that Jimmy and Paul work with, and still has that slight awk­wardness that made audi­ences first love him in “The O.C.” Scott also does a hilar­ious job as a hyperactive drug addict that robs houses to sustain his habit. His par­ticipation accounts for some of the funniest scenes. The com­bination of different characters and the way they interact with one another, each in their own 



Author’s Note: This story was originally a recap of Wrestlemania XXVI, which took place on Sunday night. After writing my first draft, I realized the potential audience of that story was only slightly bigger than the group of four guys with whom I 
Nicholas Anderson 
regularly watch 
World Wrestling Entertainment Assistant Scene (WWE). Instead, Editor the piece trans­formed into a defense of professional wrestling illustrated by Sunday night’s event. 
Professional wrestling is fake — but so is pretty much every show, movie and commer­cial on television. Tom Hanks never actually stormed the beaches of Normandy, Ross and Rachel never actually got back together and John Cena didn’t actually defeat Batista Sunday night for the world title of a legitimate sporting organization. 
The vast majority of wrestling fans knows this, but chooses to watch anyway. While wrestling’s audience may be skewed towards what is thought of as the “Nascar” demo­graphic, it is by no means because they are fooled by the action on the screen. Instead, just like any other fiction fans, they are drawn in by the story lines and athleticism. 
However, just because all the matches are predetermined doesn’t mean wrestling is entirely faked. The wrestlers spend most of the year on the road in cramped quarters with a small group of fellow performers. Bad blood is bound to arise. 
One of the most famous examples of real world animosity spilling into wrestling story-lines was the “Montreal Screw job” in 1997. Bret Hart, the reigning world champion and one of the most popular performers in the business, was supposed to win his last pay­per-view match before leaving the WWE because of WWE’s financial troubles. 
Vince McMahon, the CEO of WWE, as well as a frequent performer, arranged for Hart to win the match before resigning and handing over the title. McMahon later decided to change the out­come of the match without informing Hart. Under McMahon’s orders, the ref called the match early. 
McMahon’s betrayal was real, as was Hart’s exclusion from the WWE. By the time Hart was introduced into the wrestling Hall of Fame in 2006, the personal feud between the two had ended. Earlier this year, Hart made his professional return in the ring with old wounds fresh in his mind. After several weeks of build up, Hart spent Sunday night giving McMahon the beat down he deserved over a decade ago. The excellent mesh of real and script­ed emotion provided the WWE with one of the bet­ter story lines in recent memory as well as a great match at Wrestlemania. 
Professional wrestling is at a unique moment in its history. Two decades ago, wrestling was in its heyday. Superstars embodied by Hulk Hogan had transcended the sport and spilled over into family movies and Sunday morning cartoons. It was fami­ly entertainment even if it was lower class. 
As big names defected to rival wrestling company World Championship Wrestling (WCW), WWE start­ed experimenting with crass, often sexual story-lines. This new direction proved to be a disaster, furthering the popularity of WCW while decreasing the influence of wrestling in popular culture as a whole. 
WCW was eventually bought out by WWE as it attempted to return to its former glory. Total Nonstop Action, the most recent start up, is quickly hiring former superstars to build its roster and directly compete with WWE. 
The best analogy to professional wrestling is a soap opera: the acting is sub-par and the storylines tend to be cheesy, but the elements work more often than not. Pro wrestling provides entertain­ment that is second to none. 
The views expressed in this Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Nicholas Anderson at nanders5@nd.edu 
the



AbsUrDer 
The Independent Newspaper Mocking Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


By SUBWAY JARED 
Perpetual Optimist 
After weeks of internal meetings and wild specula­tions across the country as to its fate, the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has taken the bold step of banning the Keenan Revue from the United States. 
The FCC said they no longer believe the Keenan Revue to be in line with the 
m i s s i o n  s t a t e m e n t  o f t h e  
nation.  
“We could just  no  longer  

stand by while those hooli­gans from Keenan Hall pre­sented caricatures of what United States citizens are 


FCC bans Revue from America 
Organizers say they plan to relocate show to Canada 
RV Hall of Fame follows chicken chain to Atlanta 
Administrators say that move is unrelated to College Football Hall of Fame’s relocation 
By KARL BERSTEIN 
More of a Legend than an Actual Employee 
The RV and Motor Home Hall of Fame announced they will move from Elkhart to Atlanta, effective July 1. 
The move follows the College Football Hall of Fame’s move to the Georgia capital, but the moves are unrelated, according to motor home guru “Cousin” Sal Chesterson. 
“Our employees and visitors at the RV Hall of Fame need us some Chick-fil-A,” Chesterson said. “Atlanta said they’d give us a year supply if we moved South.” 
Guests at the Hall of Fame Tuesday were unconcerned by the move. 

like, ” FCC commissioner Giulius Menachowski said. “The only way we will ever be able to promote virtuous citizens is to completely ignore the way they act and bury our heads in the sand.” 
Former Keenan revue directors Flim Fleat and Stanny Zeeland, surprised by the government’s deci­sion, vowed to continue the fight to keep the Revue in the country. 
The two promised to appeal the decision all the way to the Supreme Court. 
“Really?” Fleat said. “Really?” 
Zeeland echoed his state­ment, wondering why the FCC even cared. 
“All we did was have a few sketches about how some Americans are fat and lazy,” Zeeland said. “I did not real­ize that it would be such a big deal.” 
The FCC claimed its actions were not reactionary and that they had been plan­ning this change for years. 
“The Commission finds the unpatriotic nature of the skits as well as the inappro­priate references to fatness of American citizens to be incongruent with the United State’s mission and values,” Menachowski said. “Our government strives to treat all individuals as if they are incapable of committing embarrassing, amusing or 
see HUMORLESS/page 3 
“I’d walk 500 miles, and I would walk 500 more to get to the RV Hall of Fame,” visitor Gomer Pyle said. 
Pyle’s wife reminded him he wouldn’t need to walk because they could take their RV. 
The Hall of Fame expects the move will net them an additional 200 visitors a day, Chesterson said. 
“The thing about us RVers is that we love us our chicken,” Chesterson said. 
Chesterson said he hopes the Hall of Fame’s stay in Elkhart has convinced Hoosiers to pursue RVing as a way of life. 
Elkhart resident Reginald Hoffman decided to sell his home when he retired to buy an RV 
see RVS/page 3 



Female suspected of breaking rules 
NDSP reports school’s first parietals violation 

Absurder Staff Report 
Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) has released a sketch of a female fugitive alleged to have violated parietals in Zahm Hall the morning of March 30. 
If the allegations prove true, it would mark the first parietals vio­lation in the University’s storied 168-year history. 
According to NDSP and multiple witnesses, a female student, clad 
see PARIETALS/page 5 


STUDENT GOVERNMENT 



Tweens to assume top student gov positions 
By GLENN O’REILLY 
Fair and Balanced 
Kathy Sunshine and Anthony Belltower will be inaugurated as student body president and vice president 
today,  taking  over  for  
Bob&Grant  Dotcom  and  
Grynthia.  

The election of Sunshine and Belltower was not with­out controversy, as a growing number of students claim that Sunshine attends Saint Mary’s College. 
“There is no proof that Sunshine actually goes to Notre Dame,” Gwen Deck, the organizer of the group of con­cerned students, said. “Her name isn’t even Katie!” 
The Irish Poodle, that cam­pus’s biweekly watchdog, called for Sunshine’s impeachment because she’s not a true Domer. 
see TWEENS/page 5 
page 2 The Absurder . PAGE II Tuesday, April 1, 2010 
to blonde bomb- Arnold Palmer  
shell Elin, and  
when he does- I’m still alive  
n’t, he has the  
pick of the litter  
of gorgeous women  at his beck and  
call.  

DRINKINGFORECAST
INSIDE COLUMN 


Bravo, Tiger! 
You all are just jealous. 
You go home to your slightly over­weight spouses and your obnoxious children who constantly force you to question your decision to procreate. Tiger goes home 
You and your buddies golf on Saturday afternoons, hacking from bunker to bunker and carding a gentle­man’s 118. Tiger drops a 3-wood with the accuracy of a cruise missile a foot from the pin on national television and winks at the busty brunette near the 14th green, knowing that after he wins the tournament he’ll put Elin and the kids to bed and then skedaddle on over to her place. 
You are affected by the recession. He isn’t. You don’t get free Nike gear and Buicks. He does. He got to visit the troops and hit golf balls off the deck of the U.S.S. George Washington. You did-n’t. 
You wish you were him. 
He’s probably in his hotel at Augusta right now with a pile of tabloids and gossip magazines in front of him, and every time he reads about himself he grins. 
“Check.” 
“Count it.” 
“She was sooooo worth it.” 
Don’t tell me for one second you don’t want to have an affair with a dozen-plus porn stars and cocktail waitresses. That’s a dozen-plus chances to use the built-in pick-up lines inherent in being a golfer. 
“I go longer than anyone on tour.” 
“You know, my driver has quite the stiff shaft.” 
“I put it in the hole better than any­one in the world.” 
He bagged so many women he took the show on the road — literally, hence the, ahem, loss of control that ended his Hummer when he hit a fire hydrant. The car, a Cadillac Escalade, was empty other than Tiger when Elin got there, but you do the math. 
In fact, by that point Tiger wanted the world to know just how much of a badass he was. Plus, how hard could it be to score tail in a sexaholics clinic? Speaking of which, Elin isn’t innocent either. Since Tiger’s new base of opera­tions is in Mississippi, she’s been stay­ing with Brett Favre. After a couple of glasses of red wine with Brett and Deanna, she could slip inside his Wranglers in no time. 
He hoodwinked us all with his “apologies,” pretending to be deeply saddened by his actions and ready to work on his marriage. He’s up there saying things like “I am far short of perfect,” all the while hiding a smile, thinking, “I’d like to thank the Academy,” surreptitiously checking his BlackBerry to see if Shawna from the bar got back to him about tonight. 
He’s not going anywhere. He’ll come out next week, shoot a nine-under despite the boos and raise his arms on the 18th green as if to say, “You wish you were me.” Then he’ll moonwalk off the green and into the waiting arms of several loose women, accompanied by Elin. 
Because even she has to be saying, well done, sir. Well done. 
The views expressed in this Inside Column seem to be pretty sound, no? 
SHOUTOUTS 
Hi mom, dad and Alex! 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: NERVOUS ABOUT JOB SECUR TY  N TH S ECONOMY? 



Sean Junkins Gnarlie Rice Bike Pray Kelli Bryan Mac Swartick 
Billionaire Former Irish Former Irish Freshman Has really hot Mogul, C.S.C Football Coach Basketball Coach Knott Hall daughters 
I’m tenured. Budget cutbacks My postseason I have a second Again, I have cost me my job. performances job at Reckers really hot speak for just in case. daughers. 
themselves. 

CENSORED BY THE UNIVERSITY OFFICE OF PREVENTION OF THE VIEWING OF NAKED BODIES In crystal clear detail, University President Fr. Sean Junkins is captured streaking through campus, part of a so-called ‘bun run’ with his dorm. 
USELESS THINGS MAYBE YOU’RE INTERESTED IN, MAYBE NOT 
Cristal to begin production on canned wine 
The South of, FRANCE — Cristal, the official French champagne of aristocrats and rappers alike, has announced a new line of canned wine set for an early 2011 domestic release. 
“The bottle was just get­ting cumbersome, particu­larly for some our con­sumers who often require free hands to easily grab weapons, and grope females,” producer Louis Roederer said. 
The can will also allow for Cristal to easily be con­sumed in mass quantities. 
A 30-pack of 12-oz cans is expected to retail for $64,000, and will be avail­able exclusively through Belmont Beverage. 
NBC to renew ‘MILF Island’ for a second season 
NEW YORK —NBC Sheinheart Universal Vice President Jack Donaghy has announced that the critically acclaimed and award winning reality tele­vision show featuring sexy moms, teenage boys and no rules, will be back for a second season. 
But this time, the game will change, and the MILFs will have to adjust. In addi­tion to the first season’s 15 MILFs and 50 eighth grade boys, 5 DILFs and 25 tweens will be added into the mix. 

The season, which will film over the next three years in Cambodia, is scheduled to premiere dur­ing sweeps in 2015. 
Sorry about so many 30 Rock references, but it’s hard to try to write jokes for this. Especially when most people at The Absurder aren’t funny. I hope you understand. 
Today Tonight Friday SaturdaY 




So no. 

LITTLE BITS OF NEWS 
Former Tonight Show host Conan O’Brien has signed a contract to host NDTV’s Late Night ND in the Legends Restaurant for the next two years. Try to stop by some time, unless you have homework. 
If you’ve got a couple hundred cold-ish beers sitting around, a Grand Prix is the thing to do these days. 
If anyone could find out if I’m still banned for life from The Backer, I’d really appreciate it. It’s not that I want to go or any­thing, I just need to know that I could if I wanted to. 
The password for Club Fever this Thursday is ‘fidelio’. Get there before eleven, and be sure to bring a mask. 
Apparently there’s some God Debate coming up. Like every­one else I don’t really know any­thing about it, but man am I opinionated! 
The weather is going to be nice this weekend. Fitting, since you’re leaving town for Easter Break. 
If you’re interested in actual things that are happening on campus, just read the real paper. 
Easter Monday 

Seriously. The weather’s going to be sweet this week. Listen to the Sun in the Wayfarers. 




Nation & Stuff 
Thursday, April 1, 2010 Compiled from The Absurder’s wire services page 3 
GOP: President Baraka Rama is anti-Christ 
Terri Randyl protests, claiming commander-in-chief is ‘only Satan’; student government tries to put itself at center of story 
Devil’s News Service 
Nearly a quarter of registered Republicans believe that United States president Baraka Rama is the anti-Christ, according to a poll released last week. 
The poll’s findings came as no surprise to many Republican leaders. 
“I’ve been saying he’s the anti-Christ for years,” conserva­tive radio talker Brush Bimbaugh said. 
Democrats retort that Rama’s morals prove he isn’t the anti-Christ. “If anyone’s the anti-Christ, it would be [Republican South Carolina governor] Sark Manford,” one Democratic strategist said. 
Not all voters are convinced that a political figure is the anti-Christ. “Rama can’t be the anti-Christ because it’s always been my dream to be the anti-Christ,” Chicago resident Lucifera Beelzebub said. “These people are trying to kill my dreams.” 

It is unclear how the results of the poll will affect November’s midterm elections, but some political analysts think that Photo courtesy of Donny Rumsfeld Satan worshippers will now be President Baraka Rama read his satanic “bible” instead of paying attention when he waited to deliver his speach at Notre Dame’s more likely to vote for 2009 Commencement ceremony. According to a recent poll, almost a quarter of the GOP believes he is the anti-Christ. 

Democrats. 

If Rama is the anti-Christ, News show last night. “I’ve president Fr. Sean Junkins is creating a task force to address members to ask their con-each party will have a figure always know that Rama is 24 the true anti-Christ. “Rama is the poll at Monday’s meeting of stituency groups what we with ties to the percent anti-Satan, but Junkins is the anti-the Campus Life Council (CLC). should do,” Dotcom said. dark side, accord-Christ, and now Christ,” Randyl said. Council members approved of Dotcom is also considering ing to Harry this is our University spokesman Denny the task force in principle, but asking students to vote on who Potter Web site “We can’t create a proof,” Deck Blue said Notre Dame does not ultimately tabled the issue until they believe is the anti-Christ. founder H.P. said. endorse the coming of the anti-next week’s meeting because “If we conduct a mock election, 
task force without a 
S p a r k s . The poll Christ, but stands by Rama as the student leaders couldn’t we’ll know the opinion of the 
semicolon in the
“Republicans are l a u n c h e d president. “Fr. Sean and the agree on a name for the com-students,” Dotcom said. “That for Voldemort, name.” another round officers of the University are mittee. will allow us as student leaders and now of protests on anti-anti-Christ,” Blue said. “I want to use a semicolon the to make a more informed deci-Democrats are for the campus of “But the University respects name of the task force,” CLC sion on behalf of the student 
Katie McKaterson 
Rama,” Sparks Notre Dame, President Rama’s status as a member Katie McKaterson said. body.” 
CLC member

said, citing the where Rama world leader, and doesn’t “We can’t create a task force Not all students plan to vote in long -standing spoke at the believe that he’s the anti-without a semicolon in the the mock election. “I don’t even rumor than for-2 0 0 9 Christ.” name.” know who Bob&Grant Dotcom mer vice president Mick Commencement ceremony. Notre Dame student leaders After initially supporting the is,” one student, speaking on Churnley is the Dark Lord. Terri Randyl, who led the are still unsure of how they will task force, Dotcom is now hesi-the condition of anonymity 
Conservative talk show host 2009 protests at Notre Dame, is address the results of the poll. tant. “I’m going to bring it up in because he might have worked Benn Deck supported the boycotting the current protests Student body president the Council of Representatives on a group project with Dotcom results of the poll on his Fox because he thinks University Bob&Grant Dotcom suggested meeting tomorrow, and urge last semester, said. 
RVs 
continued from page 1 
because of the Hall of Fame. “I could have retired to Florida, but I bought an RV so now I’ve retired to the world,” Hoffman said. 
Although the move is not expected to affect Notre Dame, University President Fr. Sean Junkins expressed his personal disappointment with the situa­tion. “I like nothing more than road-tripping in my RV,” he said. 
Junkins is rumored to travel in an extra-wide RV trailer that is furnished with imported Italian marble floors. He was hoping that his motor home would be nomi­nated for the Hall of Fame after it retired. 
Now, however, Junkins is con­cerned that supporting the Hall of Fame would send the wrong mes­sage to the Northern Indiana community. 
“We don’t want to support an institution that betrayed Michianans,” Junkins said. 
Now that the two hall of fames are leaving the state, observers are concerned that other local landmarks will look for an escape route. 
Junkins was quick to disspell fears that Notre Dame will be the next to move. “We love Northern Indiana, and we’re not going any­where,” he said. 

He followed his statement by donating $10 million to the cities of South Bend, Elkhart and Mishawaka. 
Saint Mary’s College president Carrie Mindy refused to comment if her institution of higher learn­ing is looking for a new location. 
Mindy is seeking a cash dona­tion from Junkins to stay in the South Bend area, according to a source within her administration. 
“We need someone to pay for our sidewalks to be shoveled,” the source said. 
The College currently does not shovel its sidewalks after snow­storms because it claims that the retired Holy Cross nuns who live on campus are responsible for groundskeeping. 
“If we join the hall of fames in Atlanta, we won’t need to shovel our sidewalks,” the source in Mindy’s office said. 
A spokesman for the city of South Bend said the city will not fight to keep Saint Mary’s in the region. “If they get a football team, we’ll support their institu­tion,” the spokesman said. 

Contact Karl Bernstein through Deep Throat. 

The Absurder 





Viewpoint 
page 4 Tuesday, April 1, 2010 
THE ABSURDER 

The fight against health care
The Independent, Yearly Newspaper Mocking Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 

America was founded on the idea that cine became available over the counter. During the founding of this country, 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

those who make the laws must do so Now surgeries, cancer treatment and doctors would slice open arteries and
Jed Bartlet 

with the consent of the governed. prescription medicine are all provided let the blood flow to cure fever and MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER President Baraka Rama’s blatant disre-to us for a sharply reduced rate. And rubbed scabs from dead smallpox vic-Grizz Dot Com gard for consent in driving through the even worse, by 2019 almost everyone in tims in open wounds to prevent the recent health care bill pimp-slaps this the country will have access to it. spread of the disease. They did it with-

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Mitt Romney 

precedent in the face, and The concept of health in out ever raising premiums or running a

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Jezbah Romney 

as such, we on The 
this country has lost all deficit. Let us return to a time of health-NEWS EDITOR: C.J. Cregg Absurder editorial board credibility. Twenty-five care simplicity, where a Band-Aid and a VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Andy Rooney reject the concept of percent of the country shot of Johnnie Walker can cure most SPORTS EDITORS: Frank Rosatano health care in this country. smokes and 15.3 million maladies. You want health care, go Americans have sexually A recent Harris poll showed that 24
Lutz 

to Canada. They give it transmitted diseases percent of Americans believe Rama is
SCENE EDITOR: Liz Lemon 

away like candy on (we’re looking at you, the anti-Christ and we cannot believe

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Cerie Xerox 

Halloween up there. In Louisiana, which leads the the number is not higher. The prophe-
PHOTO EDITOR: Cat Mashore 

America, we believe country in syphilis cases cies are coming true, one by one, and GRAPHICS EDITOR: Bryans Id Lick health care is a communist undertaking and is a close second to Mississippi in America is too blind and stupid to real-ADVERTISING MANAGER: Don Draper that forces supposedly free citizens to Gonorrhea). Health care will not save ize it. In I John 2:18, the Bible warns, accept treatment for illness and injury. these poor souls. “Little children, it is the last time: and
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Edward Cullen 

Never mind the fact that it will cost just Studies show the attempt to stay as ye have heard that anti-Christ shall
CONTROLLER: Bella Swan 

south of a trillion dollars, raise premi-healthy only hurts Americans more. A come … from Chicago by way of

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Jack Donaghy 

ums and increase taxes on the wealthy. Brookings Institution review in 2008 Hawaii.” Or potentially Kenya. How can OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO It’s a socialist gambit. The same bill showed that 83 percent of Americans we allow this monster to be in charge of WE LOVE SHIRLEY could have come from the Kremlin in who ate a carrot in the previous two our physical well-being?
FAX 

1954. weeks contracted some form of hepati-So stand up for yourselves. Don’t floss 
(574) 631-6927 

What happened to “walk it off” and tis in the next six months. In a similar your teeth, eat too much cholesterol
ADVERTISING 

ELITEVIP@escorts.com “rub some dirt on it?” Those are the study, conducted by McDonalds, those and continue having unprotected sex EDITOR IN CHIEF sentiments America used to believe in. who ate at least two double cheese-with morally questionable people. It’s FAKEPRESIDENT@US.GOV The downfall started years ago, when burgers a week or more remained hep-all in the name of fighting the good fight
MANAGING EDITOR 

ibuprofen and similar pain relief medi-atitis-free. — the fight against health care. 
ENTOURAGE@TRACYJORDAN.COM 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 
MITT@ROMNEY.COM MITTROMNEY’SELDESTSON@ROMNEY.COM 
BUSINESS OFFICE 

(574) 631-5313 LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
NEWS DESK 
FAKEPRESSSECRETARY@US.GOV 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
ROONEYSCREAMS@CNN.COM 
SPORTS DESK 

Brians is a disgrace
FRANKANDLUTZ@TGS.NBCUNI.COM 
SCENE DESK 

LIZ@BUTTONCLASSIC.COM To the Editor: tionally do illegal things that will likely get me arrested. It’s SAINT MARY’S DESK I’m writing in protest of Our Lady’s University’s latest dis-not going to accomplish anything, but I hope you’ll join me
NO INTERNET ACCESS 

grace. Some of the things I’ve heard about William Brians are next week some time!
PHOTO DESK 

contrary to the way I feel about major issues. As a result, he Let’s gather enough money to fly a helicopter above cam-
UNIVPHOTOG@ND.EDU 

should not be allowed on these hallowed grounds, let alone pus, pulling along some banner that all other people will find
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 

JACK@ILOVEDONGEISS.COM receive an honorary degree from this University I am not in offensive. Since I have no affiliation with this university, I any way affiliated with. don’t have any qualms about my actions affecting it negative-THE I see right through Brians’ guise of “journalism.” Some of ly. AbsurderOnline the “news” he reports deals with topics I’d rather not Please sign a protest and visit my several Web sites. I get 5 www.ndsmcimonaboat.com acknowledge. Sure I could just not tune in, but for some cents a hit, so if you have the time, just keep refreshing. strange reason I also feel compelled to spend all of my free
POLICIES 

time convincing the whole world to feel exactly the same way Terri Randyl I do. Activist unrelated with Notre Dame I care so strongly about this cause that I’m going to inten-Mar. 31 
The Absurder claims nothing in this paper to be true. Anything you read in this special section is not 
subject to review of the Notre Dame administration. We hope it will remain that way. 




Dancin’ with the devil 
As Catholics and scholars, we at Notre Dame already this despicable hellhole, however, is in fact akin to mor-Questions regarding Absurder policies are inane. Shut know a few surefire ways to sentence ourselves to eter-tal sin, and those who engage in it might as well forget the hell up and go home. 
nal damnation: the consumption of steak sandwiches on about their chances of meeting St. Peter at the pearly Lenten Fridays, the engagement in gates. premarital sex and of course the sup-Mary Kate Until the Anglican Lambeth Conference of 1930, no port of socialist dictators. One gray Donahue Christian denomination had ever held that consumption area about which many a seemingly of alcohol and interaction with fellow youth could be religious Catholic student is apparent-Right or objectively right [ALC 4.2.732 (1930)]. Minny’s is both ly confused, however, is the visitation embracing and encouraging both of these evils. 
Rover?
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

of the popular Friday student hang-The self-evident principle of the natural law is, in St. The Absurder (random numbers go here) is published on April Fool’s Day each year. out, Minny’s, also known as the Thomas Aquinas’ words, that “good is to be done and 
A subscription to The Absurder would be pointless. 

That is all. Carney Stone. promoted and evil is to be avoided.” Therefore, young 
The Absurder is published at: POSTMASTER A simple observation of this sinful spectacle reveals scholars, I implore you, after a rest on your typical 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Absurder 
sweaty young men and women gyrating to Satan’s song, Friday afternoon, before following your fellow sinners Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 drinking a vile mixture of potent energy drinks and to Minny’s, ask yourself, what would Jesus do? Consider 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 liquor and, worst of all, dancing atop the counter from your pious alternatives. Revisit your favorite Bible pas-which the wicked beverage is provided. sages. Tune into your preferred Fox News program. Call An innocuous weekend hot spot? That is what stu-your grandmother. 
The Absurder is a member of some stupid wire service. All reproduction rights are 

dents have been led to believe. Simply setting foot in Anything but a visit to the Devil’s dance floor. 
violated. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

ABSURDER POLL
News Viewpoint 

Fracene Chavers Chuck Arroz Do parietals prevent you from 
Denny Blue Scene 

thinking about the opposite sex? 
Fr. Sean Junkins Team Edward Graphics Team Jacob JC Superstar (A) Yes. Sports (B) Most of the time. Bai-ler Tones Skai-ler Duggins Muppet McCaw Vote by paper ballot in the University president’s office. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“We’re Notre Dame, and peopledon’t have water.” 
Grynthiastudent body vice president 

Thursday, April 1, 2010 The Absurder . WHO EVER READS ANYTHING BESIDES HOROSCOPES? page 5 
OMG! Campus juice, not from concentrate 
uUniversity 
President Fr. Sean Junkins was seen at Belmont Beverages shortly before St. Patrick’s Day. Although the contents of his pur­chase are unknown, OMG! hears that Junkins’ drink of choice is iced tea. 

uStudent 
body president Bob&Grant Dotcom urged leaders of Notre Dame to OMG! Gossip distribute bottles of Jack Daniels Tennessee Whiskey to students at Tuesday’s closed-door meeting of the Council of Representatives. “Your constituen­cy groups need something to brush their teeth with when they wake up feelin’ like P. Diddy,” Dotcom said. 

• 
It was a star-studded afternoon at the Huddle when Athletic Director Mac Swartrick was caught shopping. Swartrick promised Huddle management he would buy a daily chocolate milk chug to make up for lost revenue after football coach Gnarlie Wise was fired last year. 

uDirector 
of duLac Enforcement Geoff Store and his staff frequent South Dining Hall for lunch, taking advantage of the $5 meals for fac­ulty and staff. 

• 
Dotcom and student body vice president Grynthia may be dating. 

uThis 
just in: OMG! learned that all classes taught by tap-dancing anthropology professors are easy. 

uAlanis 
Morissette and Regina Spektor will perform together at AcoustiCafe next month. They are expected to sign a contract to waitress at Legends after the show. 

uWise 
was seen on a Southwest flight from Chicago to Kansas City Sunday. Wise used to fly 


on United, but switched to Southwest after United discontinued its on-board peanut service. 
• Harry Potter aficionado H.P. Sparks got engaged last spring on the United Center Jumbotron. That sparked OMG! to make a list of places where we wouldn’t want to get engaged: 
1. 
Any South Bend bar (apologies to the peo­ple who put a ring on it at Mulligan’s on St. Patrick’s Day) 

2. At a sporting event 

3. 
Our place of employment (the SDH base­ment smells bad) 

4. 
A dorm party 

5. 
To anyone I don’t like 




6. At the dining hall (unless it was to my favorite card-swiper) 
uMaybe 
ND Response’s problem with Junkins was more about his wardrobe than his choice for Commencement speaker. OMG!’s favorite biweekly watchdog captioned a picture of Junkins by urging readers to “note the digital wristwatch” in its reunion edition last year. No word if The Watchdog was similarly vigilant with incoming student body vice president Anthony Belltower. 

uOMG! 
thinks we might frequent the Backer too much. We’re starting to recognize the mid­dle-aged townies on the South Bend bar scene. Worse yet, we knew some of them when they were undergrads. No one likes them now that they’re 23. 

• 
An intoxicated tipster told OMG! that Pasquerella West is the new Rome. “All roads lead to P-Dub,” Katie McKaterson said. 

uThe 
Observer’s male assistant managing edi­tor from the 2009-2010 term isn’t working on The Absurder because he’s at his spinning class. 


Parietals 
continued from page 1 
in an oversized male T-shirt and athletic shorts, was spotted stumbling from an unknown dorm room to a male bathroom on the residence hall’s third floor at approximately 3:15 a.m. on March 30. On weeknights, parietals begin promptly at midnight, leaving authorities puzzled as to how the female suspect could have been pres­ent in the all-male residence hall at that time. 

Details of the incident are still largely unknown, and Zahm residents are keeping quiet, cit­ing the Hall’s strict “Bros Before Hos” oath. The few witness of the incident that talked to The Absurder under the condition of anonymity said only that the female was “a’ight,” and had an “average face” but a “sweet rack.” 
Still, to the Office of Residence Life and Housing, which enforces the parietal regula­tions, how the violation could have ever happened remains a mystery. 
“We put out duLac so students know the rules. Parietals is a rule,” director of ORLH Geoff Store said. “How could this stu­dent have violated one of our rules? It just doesn’t make any sense.” 
Anyone who has any informa­tion about the incident, or the possible motives behind it, is asked to call or text NDSP at 513-519-8808. 




The Absurder hates the environmnet. Please just throw us on the quad, along with any other alumninum, plastic or garbage you may find. 
and are hopeful to attract a whole new target audience. 
Humorless 
“Based on the closing cer­
emonies of the Olympics in 
continued from page 1 
Vancouver, we have some 
lascivious acts.” pretty big comedic shoes to 
The loss of the venue in fill,” Fleat said. “I don’t the United States was a big know if we can top William blow for the Revue, which as Shatner and inflatable always relied upon an moose and beavers, but we American will try.” audience When asked with an actu-what specific al sense of jokes especial­
“Why don’t they go 
humor. ly troubled the 
after other countries
Ninety-FCC, they eight percent that deserve to be cited dis ­
of the paraging
made fun of, like
Revue’s audi-remarks that 
England or Djibouti?”
ence, appar-were directed ently, is only directly made up of Mari Todtigeuz at their con ­Americans. stituents. 
pro-American activist
“I was very disappointed that the FCC chose to ban our event from the country,” Keenan rector Fr. Fran Dolan said. “America is the best country in the world. It is going to be difficult to find another country that accom­modates us so well.” 
American citizens them­selves said they enjoy the humor, citing the Revue as an appropriate opportunity to identify the absurd activi­ties in which they and their countrymen engage 
Despite these arguments, the FCC is steadfast in its desire to remove all humor and amusement from the country. 
“Jokes are no laughing matter,” Menachowski said. 
Undaunted, organizers plan to move the Revue to Windsor, Ontario, Canada 

Tweens 
continued from page 1 
“A vegan can’t be student body president at Our Lady’s University,” a Poodle staffer said. 
The group of concerned stu­dents, which primarily con­sists of Poodle staffers and outsiders with no ties to the University, has threatened to boycott Notre Dame football, NBC and the Republic of Ireland if Sunshine is allowed to take office. 
Sunshine might be working with an enemy “that hates Notre Dame,” Deck said. 
The University investigated the claims that Sunshine isn’t actually a Notre Dame stu­dent, according to spokesman Denny Blue. 
“We found that Sunshine is a student,” Blue said. “She pays tuition and attends class­es.” 
Deck and The Poodle were not convinced by Blue’s defense of the new president. “We want to see her tuition bill and transcript,” Deck said. “Even then, how will we know it’s not a forgery?” 
Dotcom is defending his replacement as the deserving student body president. “The student body has spoken, and they want Sunshine and Belltower as leaders of Notre Dame,” Dotcom said. 
Dotcom initially considered conducting a survey to deter­mine if the majority of stu­dents believe Sunshine is a Notre Dame student, but was informed that last month’s election already gauged the student body’s opinion on the president-elect. 
Sunshine herself is unfazed by the controversy. “I just want to break loose the sky and let love grow love,” “It is not ok 
for the 
Keenan Revue 
to target us Americans,” pro-American activist Mari Todtiguez said. “Why don’t they go after other countries that deserve to be made fun of, like England or Djibouti? English girls are really fat and have horrible teeth.” 
The Keenan Revue is known for its ability to make fun of everyone, from Americans to Canadians to Brazilians, yet the FCC seems determined to protect the United States’ image from any kind of taint or perceived flaw. 
FCC officials say they will not change their minds, even if that means doing their best to silence free speech. 
Contact Subway Jared at jared@eharmony.com 
Sunshine said. 

Dotcom still hopes to appear on the front page of The Observer at least once a week until he graduates. 
“My picture has been in The Observer every day since I took over as student body president two years ago,” he said. 
Dotcom said the key to his success as student body presi­dent was his relationship with The Absurder. 
“Editor-in-Chief Jersey Mets and I work really well togeth­er,” he said. 
Grynthia had long intended to run for student body presi­dent herself, but decided to step aside to pursue her musi­cal career. 
She is also in negotiations to star in a reality show called “Grynthia’s Alabama” with NDTV. 
When Grynthia dropped out of the race, it paved the way for Sunshine’s win. 
Student government ana­lysts were originally con­cerned that Sunshine could not win because she and Belltower are too young. 
“Who’d vote for 14-year­olds,” said one Dotcom admin­istration staffer, speaking on the condition of anonymity because she is applying to work for Sunshine. 
Dotcom said he hopes that Sunshine and Belltower can deliver as much to Notre Dame students as he has. 
He cited his recent proposal to legalize drinking games on campus as an issue that he hopes Sunshine will pursue. 
“I surveyed the student body, and students really want to be able to play beer pong on campus,” Dotcom said. “You gotta give the people want they want.” 

Contact Glenn O’Reilly at 1-800-4-Jenny 

page 6... The Absurder . ATHLETICS ...or is it? 
Despite the multiple items of controversy, the Americans 


h20Balls 
were happy to claim the upset continued from page 8 win over many nations, includ­
continued from page 8 

ing the favorite Canadians. The 100th inaugural games “After they victory in the 
Raiders organization.” 

were also tainted by accusa-Winter Olympics in hockey, they 
Blausen impressed scouts 

tions of liquor abuse by various got real cocky,” said U.S. cap-
at the combine, completing 

countries throughout the event. tain Bruce Springer. “Now those 
the 40-yard water-bucket 

“Pregaming is strictly forbid-b***es will never be our 51st 
pull in 11.36 seconds. 
den,” said IBC President Jacque state.” 
“He’s a valuable addition to 
Pussad. “It’s an unfair advan­
our staff,” Raiders coach 

tage for every nation wishing to Contact Rob via Chatroulette 
Dom Table said. “But if he 

find an illegal advantage.” after 11 p.m. 
doesn’t pan out, I’ll treat him like every member of my staff 

— I’ll beat him senseless.” proven to amplify the force of 
Word is Blausen’s contract 

hits by up to 50 times!” 
will be in the neighborhood Spaceman said. “By removing 

Junk 

of $13,000 per season with a continued from page 8 the pads altogether, blows from 
playoff bonus of $6.3 million opposing players will almost 
(since the Raiders won’t get uniforms will allow the Notre definitely bounce off our team’s 
there). Dame brand to penetrate into glistening muscles without ever 
Blausen’s affinity for quali­several lucrative new demo-causing any harm.” 
ty water has gotten him into graphics: MILFs, cougars, Irish coach Kelli Bryan, who 
trouble at times. In the fall, tweens who are mature for coached all-conference defen­
at CJs, a local South Bend their age, and the physically sive lineman Justin Timberlake 
bar, Blausen did not like the attractive. “The University’s at Grand Valley State, said he 
taste of a glass of water always looking for new blood to drew inspiration for the uni-
bought for him and made a solicit hefty donations from, forms from the now-white 
snide remark. Oops. Moments wunderkind. “But once we right.” and these new uniforms are singer-songwriter’s lyrics. 
later, Blausen was on the had time to study the film, Blausen played football for opening our product up to “There used to be all this focus 
ground with a black eye. really work on the filtration, most of his childhood, star-entirely new fanbases.” about bringing the ‘nasty’ back 
“I’m a perfectionist,” he he really began to improve. ring at Oaks Christian High NBC Sports Chairman Rick to Notre Dame football. And 
said at the time. “I won’t The fact that Blausen School in Westlake Village, Parasol agreed. NBC, signed on that’s just kind of gross, you 
stand for substandard emerged as a first-round NFL Calif. But after offseason to broadcast Irish home games know,” said Bryan. “Frankly, 
water.” pick came against the odds. shoulder surgery, he decided through 2015, announced in a the thing we really need to be 
Blausen has wanted to be a His older brothers, KC and against continuing his foot-March 22 press release that it bringing back ... is sexy.” 
water boy ever since he was Dick, were both star water ball career and opted for the was “absolutely dropping the Though the fashion show was 
little, he said. He looked up boys in college who never hydrationary arts. Irish from the schedule as soon closed to the public, a few 
especially to Bobby Boucher, made it in the NFL. “Notre Dame had enough as we can find passable filler”. female students, colloquially 
famed water boy/linebacker “Neither of them had my good quarterbacks — However, according to Parasol, referred to as “jersey chasers,” 
for South Central Louisiana looks, or my skill with the Montana, Quinn, Hornung,” the new uniforms change were in attendance. 
State University. hoses,” Blausen said in he said. “I wanted to make a everything. “With the huge suc-“I totally just saw the outline 
“Blausen, he — he got what defense. “I can hydrate an name for myself in a new cess NBC has had with its sexy of [model and former player 
it take,” Boucher, a water boy entire defense in 45 seconds. field.” new programming, “MILF Splurge Black’s] junk!” some 
analyst for ESPN, said. “He What can they do?” When he showed up at the Island” in particular, we could-SMC freshman at the show 
really distribute some high-Current Irish coach Kelli College Football Hall of Fame n’t be more thrilled to see the squealed. “Aside from the 
quality H20.” Bryan said he wished he had in a stretch Hummer limo, Irish showing a little skin on chance to pretend we go to 
Former Irish coach Gnarlie Blausen’s services for his some questioned his motiva­the field.” Notre Dame, these new uni-
Dice, known for grooming inaugural season at Notre tion. Was he here to perfect Though some have expressed forms are now the most com-
water boys who succeed in Dame. Bryan had to bring his hydration or to be a show-concern over the lack of pro-pelling reason for me and my 
the NFL, said he was proud own water boy with him from boat? But he said his career tection that the new uniforms classmates to attend home foot-
of Blausen’s progression in Cincinnati. here speaks for itself. will provide Notre Dame play-ball games.” 
the three years they worked “But we’re feeling positive “We went 16-21 while I was ers, team physician Dr. Leo 
together. about Dan Christ,” Bryan here,” he said. “But was Spaceman disagrees. Contact Calvin at the pool 
“When he started, he could-said. “Blausen has done a there ever a game where our “Traditional football helmets lobbying to shrink the women’s 
n’t tell water from Gatorade,” great job giving him an players were thirsty? No. In and pads have been medically swim team uniforms next 
Wise said from Kansas City, example of how to go about site of his latest attempt to putting in the time in the lab, Contact Elin at Finny’s while groom the next hydration getting the chemistry just taking shots of liquid cocaine 
Undergraduate Association For Fantasy-Loving Enthusiasts” 

Snitch 

(QUAFFLE) has been playing a land-based version of the sport
continued from page 8 

at Notre Dame since Spring 2008 in celebration of the 
for his practice of vampirism school’s history. Sparks, playing and was forced to live the rest the position of Seeker, capturedof his 800 years in the guise of the visible, human Snitch (run­a pious French Catholic. 

ning around a pitch in yellow Storin’s story was thought to be clothing) with ease due to his one of the original inspirations actual magical ability. 
for Stephenie Meyer’s “Twilight Notre Dame’s first official Saga.” 

magical quidditch match in six Sources say the magical centuries will be played in the sport’s dramatic return is relat­airspace above the greater city ed to the arrival of H.P “The of Los Angeles, pitting the IrishChosen One” Sparks to the against the Southern UniversityUniversity in the fall of 2005. 
of California (SUC). The Irish Sparks had been prophesied to will be flying the latest model of vanquish the Dark Lord and extremely expensive broom-chose Notre Dame because of stick. The seven players, top it’s magical past to learn the international recruits, will don secrets of the fabled headmas­the latest in aerodynamic quid­ter, thought to communicate ditch robes, that closely resem­through portraits when mug­ble the new uniforms for the gles, or non-magic people, football team (see above). Sincearen’t paying attention. 
Sparks matriculated in 2009, he Critics say Sparks’ fame is will not be eligible the play, suspicious, and that his high-much to the disappointment of grossing Web site, that explains fans.
the intricacies of the magical For those unfamiliar with theworld, is in fact a hypnotic tool traditional rules, each to encourage fans to deposit Quidditch team normally con-their hard-earned Galleons sists of seven players: three directly into his Gringotts Chasers, two Beaters, one account. 

Keeper and one Seeker. Full There are some students on explanation of the rules can becampus who believed the leg-found in J.K. Rowling’s “Harry ends confirmed by Swartrick’s Potter and the Sorcerer’s announcement prior to today’s Stone.”
breaking news. 

The battle between good and A Sept. 29, 2008 Letter to the evil will take place in completeEditor angrily accused The darkness and the exact locationAbsurder of displaying “a lack will not be disclosed, Swartrickof awareness of the Quidditch said.
culture on campus” and stated an underground non-magic stu­dent group known unofficially Contact Avery by owl post only as the “Quidditch please 



The ABsurder 





Scene
April 1, 2010 page 7 


“I heard arumor they got will Christopher Hitchens to play also play Where’s my technicolor dreamcoat? Satan in one number, I’m sure a role in the finale, with it’ll be awesome. I’ve been wait-F’Artsy playing the role of 
Taking a page from the ever-ing for this event for 40 days!” the Heavenly Father and successful event put on annual-another said. Toads the role of Christ. ly by student group La Alianza, It’s been speculated that Toads will also star in a the priests of Notre Dame are Lenten Expressions is also simi-performance of the hit song launching their own annual lar to its Latino counterpart in “Rock Me Sexy Jesus” from event celebrating Catholic cul-that it may function as a the musical “Hamlet 2.” ture and the resurrection of recruiting tool for young In another act, an inter-Christ, titled Lenten Catholics. pretive dance of the Last Expressions, which takes place “Notre Dame’s Catholic repu-Supper, University this Sunday night at the Grotto. tation has been hit hard in the President Fr. Sean Junkins 
“We were looking for a new past few years, so it’s not a will assume the role of way to get students huge surprise Judas. Peter will be played excited about salva-they’re trying to by Fr. Park Moorman, and tion and the Lenten lure people in various Holy Cross priests season that unites with a big event will assume the roles of us Catholics, and like this,” one the other apostles. 
“This probably will 
what better way to cynical student The campus chapter of the 
be the highlight of
do that than an said. “But don’t Knights of Columbus will also evening showcasing the year, better be fooled — this be at the event selling steak the best of place isn’t nearly sandwiches and refreshments 
than that time we 
Catholicism at as ‘Catholic’ as to the audience during the 
had cupcakes after
Notre Dame?” said L e n t e n event. show director and dorm Mass.” Expressions “EveryFridayfor the past few Basilica rector Fr. might make you weeks when I go to the dining Paul Socka. think. hall, I’ve just been thinking to 
Student at
The event fea-“Seriously, who myself, ‘you know, this absti­
confessions
tures 12 different can overlook the nence thing will all be worth it acts. Performers Baraka Rama when I get that steak sandwich will include mem-controversy or at Lenten Expressions,’” one bers of a variety of the Vagina student said. student groups, faculty from the Monologues flap? Don’t think a Socka said the event is all theology department and show like this makes up for that about making Lent more mean-numerous Holy Cross Priests. kind of thing.” ingful for non-Catholics, and 
“It’s going to be about two Socka denied that there were celebrating Catholicity at Notre hours of beautiful scripture any ulterior motives behind the Dame. recitations, reenactments of the show, but said he did hope it “We want to get people Stations of the Cross, all con-“paints a positive picture of a pumped up and get them to cluding in a final act — a daz-vibrant Catholic culture at celebrate this part of Notre 
zling performance about the Notre Dame” in the minds of Dame, and we figure a resurrection featuring the everyone, including prospective blowout event with music, liturgical choirs, the priests of students. dance and entertain-the Holy Cross and perform-The show will be emceed by ment is a great way ers from around campus,” guests from the local diocese, to do that,” he Socka said. Bishop James F’Artsy and s a i d . Students attending con-Bishop Keith Toads, Socka said. “ D o n ’ t 
fession at the Basilica of “We’re so pleased these two miss this the Sacred Heart Tuesday friends of Notre Dame agreed to event — it said they were on pins lead the event,” Socka said. “We promises to be 
and needles in anticipa-enjoy a great friendship with a highlight of tion. these honorable men and were the year.” “This probably will be glad to invite them to partici­

Absurder Graphic I JC SUPERSTAR 

The ABSURDER 


Sports 
Thursday, April 1, 2010 Back Page 
FOOTBALL 

Irish unveil new uniforms 
ly strayed from its roots over theTeam drops trou to lift years,” Director of Athletics Mac Swartrick said. “We’ve been so revenue, jersey sales focused on unsuccessfully trying to win football games that we’ve By CALVIN KLEIN forgotten about the only reason Senior Undergarment Correspondent we have a football program in the first place: to make absurd amounts of money for 
When the Irish take to the 

(University President) Fr. 
gridiron in 2010, a $2.25 

Junkins and myself.”
increase in Stadium nacho prices 

“Thank God my 
won’t be the only 

vow of poverty 
dramatic change 

“Am I concerned doesn’t apply to 
awaiting fans. In a 

yachts,” added 
sexy, Absurder about our practices 
Fr. Junkins. “The
exclusive fashion 

continually breaking 
Spirit of Notre 
show in the Loftus 

out into tickle fghts? Dame [the 
Sports Center 

recent, $1.5 bil-
Tuesday, the Of course. But it’s 
lion fund-raising 
Athletic 

spring, that stuff is in 
campaign] let me
Department show-

the air, you know?” christen my sec-
cased the team’s 

ond yacht out in 
skimpy new digs 

Cannes last 
for the upcoming Kelli Bryan 

spring ... I’m 
season. 
Irish coach 

really hoping the 
A departure 

profits from 
from the college 

these new uni-
football staple of jerseys, pads 

forms will get me my third.”
and pants, the new uniforms uti-

Economics Department chair 
lize high-tech nanotechnology to 

Jane Garlic said that the new 
shrink the entire cumbersome 

uniforms will allow the Notre 
football ensemble into one tight, FORDE SATFOUR/The Absurder revealing piece. Model and former Irish player Splurge Black struts his stuff on the artificial turf catwalk in the “Notre Dame football has real-see JUNK/page 6 Loftus Sports Center during the football program’s fashion show Tuesday. 


BEER OLYMPICS 

Americans get their balls wet, clinch spring games with pong 
victory in the medal race after American roster after an Olympics. day of competition with medals
By ROB KOSTAS 

the ’09 Fall Games in Athens. impressive performance at the “I was a little nervous, but in quarters, Civil War and the 
Little man, big dreams 

“We couldn’t be more proud Draught Combine in I’ve been doing three or four wheelbarrow race. 
of our country to bring home Indianapolis in February. 40s of Magnum every Friday The early U.S. victories were 
The 2010 Spring Beer such a special honor,” said “The kid made 72 percent of starting at 4 p.m.,” Daniels said. marred by accusations of dop-Olympics was clinched this freshman Jake Daniels. “It’s his shots in high school, we “My tolerance was at an all-ing, primarily fueled by Chinese weekend by the United States, been a dream of mine ever haven’t seen that kind of talent time high before the Olympics accusations of tequila and clinched with gold medals in since I started drinking and in years,” said United States and I could just rely on my shot grain-alcohol injections by beer pong and a boat race on flipped my first cup.” captain Ryan O’Reilly. “We and technique.” Americans in illegal training the final day of competition. Daniels was an integral part thought it was a steal when he While Jamaica managed to techniques that were investigat-
The Americans clinched the of the U.S. victory, hitting seven fell to our spot and we could take an early lead in the Spring ed by the International Beer gold medal over Djibouti and of eight shots in the final beer take him last year.” Olympics after a gold medal Committee over the first week the Virgin Islands (playing inde-pong event to clinch the beer Daniels credited his strict performance in the ice luge, the of contests. pendently) with their late wins, pong gold over Israel. The hero training regiment for his strong Americans quickly established sealing their second consecutive was a late addition to the performance in his first Beer their dominance on the second see BALLS/page 6 
FOOSEBALL 



Move over, Bobby Boucher 
Raiders draft Blausen as water boy in 1st rd. 

By ELIN — NOW SINGLE 
Call Me :) 
Welcome to the pros, kid. 
The Oakland Raiders draft­ed former Irish quarterback Timmy Blausen as their new water boy with the eighth pick of the 2010 NFL Draft. Blausen, a three-year water boy at Notre Dame, was thrilled with the selection. 
“I’m honored to be a part of the Raiders’ fine hydration replacement staff,” Blausen said from New York City. “I have a true passion for water and cannot wait to supply the 
see H20/Find it yourself 


QUIDDITCH 



Hold onto your quaffles: gamereturnstocampus 
By AVERY JESSUP 
Hotbox Thursdays at 8 p.m. on CNBC 
In an exclusive interview with The Absurder, Notre Dame Director of Athletics Mac Swartrick announced the return of qudditich to the University after a 600-year hiatus. 
“Though our past relation­ship with magic has been largely ignored in the annals of history, we thought it was time to reintroduce the sport in hopes we can once again dominate on an international stage,” Swartrick said. 
While many are familiar with alleged-vampire Fr. Ted Storin’s “founding” of the Catholic University of Notre Dame du Lac, historians often overlook the famous school for wizardry that once stood on these grounds, where Storin, then the headmaster, established the first quidditch team on the American conti­nent. 
Quidditch was a thriving sport on the land that became South Bend, Ind. during the 1400s, until the Medieval Bubonic Vatican Assembly of 1492 banned wizardry and the practice of all magic. That was a troubled time for Storin, who ran into trouble with the school’s Native American neighbors (thought 
see SNITCH/page 6 
The Observer 





Scene
Wednesday, March 31, 2010 page 13 

Scene Staff Report 
In 1993, a boy met the world and embed­ded himself so deeply into American teen and pre-teen culture that to this day, 10 years after his television series came to a close, college kids across America still find themselves quot­ing and re-watching episodes from “Boy Meets World.” Because The Observer is so attuned to what the typical college kid yearns for, the Scene writers have decided to address your needs and tell you exactly what is going on in the lives of Cory, Topanga, Shawn, Eric and the rest of the crew with a “Where are they Now: Boy Meets World” special edition. Here’s to hoping the gang made it big and made Feeny proud! 
Cory Matthews (Ben Savage) 
Ben Savage captured the hearts of view­ers as charming prankster Cory Matthews. He navigated the tough years of adolescence, bringing worldly wisdom and amusing jokes to his trials and tribulations. Since the show ended in 2000, Savage has graduated from Stanford University with a degree in Political Science. He took a three-year break from act­ing in which he and his father spent a sum­mer following Bruce Springsteen on a U.S. tour. Afterwards, he appeared in TV movies “Swimming Upstream” and “Making It Legal.” He has also made guest appearances in TV shows like “Phil of the Future,” “Chuck” and “Without a Trace.” Currently, he is film­ing “Doesn’t Texas Ever End?”, a dramedy that was supposed to premiere in 2009. 
Shawn Hunter (Rider Strong) 
Rider Strong’s Shawn Hunter was the character who tackled the tough­est problems on the show, most­ly stemming from his tough family life. But with his best friend Cory’s help, Shawn managed to avoid any serious trouble. In 2004, Strong graduated Magna Cum Laude from Columbia University with a degree in English. He finished his Master of Fine Arts degree in 2009 at Bennington College. After “Boy Meets World,” Strong has appeared on the big screen in indie horror film “Cabin Fever” and recently had a cameo in its sequel, “Cabin Fever 2: Spring Fever.” He also returned to television with a regular role in “Pepper Dennis” on the WB in 2006. Recently he expressed an interest in expanding his writing and directing career after his film, “Irish Twins,” which he wrote with his brother Shiloh, won some awards at film festivals. 
Topanga Lawrence (Danielle Fishel) 
Fishel played the role of Topanga Lawrence, Cory’s longtime girlfriend and eventual wife on “Boy Meets World.” She is now the host of Style Network’s “The Dish,” a TV satire that skewers the latest pop culture trends in televi­sion, movies, magazines and celebrities, much like its sister network E! does on “The Soup.” She also appeared as a guest on “The Tyra Banks Show” in 2006 and discussed her dra­matic weight loss on the Nutrisystem Diet. After the appearance, Fishel became a spokesperson for Nutrisystem, as well as a special correspondent for “The Tyra Banks Show.” She has also appeared in a few movies, including “Longshot,” “National Lampoon’s Dorm Daze” and its sequel and “Gamebox 1.0.” Fishel dated a couple of her “Boy Meets World” cast members, including her co-star Ben Savage and Matthew Lawrence. She also briefly dated rapper Michael Barber and former *NSYNC member Lance Bass, who was her date to her high school prom. 



Eric Matthews (Will Friedle) 
You may know him best as the voice of Ron Stoppable from “Kim Possible” (just kidding) but for those of you who grew up listening to the 
shrieks of “FEEEEEENNNNYYYY,” Will Friedle will never be more famous than for his role as Eric on 
“Boy Meets World.” 
Since his turn as the lovable and kind of stupid big brother of Cory, Friedle has focused on providing his voice for multiple cartoon characters such as Blue Beetle in “Batman: The Brave and the Bold.” On a more exciting note, he did date Jennifer Love Hewitt in 1997, but that love boat left him strand­ed on shore long ago. The last time he made news in a major magazine was in 2006 when he told “People” he was con­templating attending culinary school, but so far no sumptuous scents have wafted from his 
kitchen. Hopefully that means he’s busy concocting the perfect recipe for revitalizing his act­ing career! 
George Feeny (William Daniels) 
Mr. Feeny appeared in almost every episode of “Boy Meets World.” His character had multi­
ple sides — the grumpy neighbor tending his beloved garden, the 
strict principal trying to lay down the law, the warm-hearted mentor guiding Cory and friends through the trials of life and the college professor who just could not get enough of his favorite students. Since the finale of Boy Meets World, Daniels, now 82, has been consistently playing minor film and television roles on popular shows such as “Boston Legal,” “The King of Queens” and “Scrubs” and movies including “Blades of Glory” and “The Benchwarmers.” Though he is well-known for his part in the classic film “The Graduate” and has been employed since the end of “Boy Meets World,” the children of the eighties and nineties only think one thing when they see his face: “Fee­nayyy!” 
Alan and Amy Matthews (William Russ and Betsy Randle) 
Cory’s parents, Alan and Amy, were the best. They were understanding to Cory’s ado­lescent problems while not so ridiculous as to think that Cory and Topanga getting married so young was a good idea. They were there for all the kids throughout the years, including 

the ones that weren’t their own. Russ has had guest roles on many different shows since “Boy Meets World’s” end includ­ing “Deadwood,” “Boston Legal” and “Wildfire.” He cur­rently has a recur­ring role on the daytime soap “The Young and the Restless.” Russ is also married with children. Meanwhile, Randle, who had a myriad of roles before playing the lovable Mrs. Matthews, retired from acting after her last role on the series “Charmed” in 2004. She now lives with her husband and children 
in California. 

Angela Moore (Trina McGee) 
McGee portrayed Angela Moore, Shawn’s major love interest throughout the latter half of the series. Witty, passionate and artistic, she and Shawn begin dating after he finds a purse she had lost and discovers their shared inter­ests based on the bag’s contents. They dated on and off until the series finale, when she decided to go spend a year in Europe with her father. While McGee was best known for her role as Angela on “Boy Meets World,” she has also guest starred on a few television shows, including “Family Matters,” “A Different World,” “So Little Time” and “The Sinbad Show.” She now spends most of her time with her fami­ly. McGee was previous­ly married to Courtland 
Davis and they had two children together. She is now currently in a relationship with actor Marcello Thedford (“Dangerous Minds”) and lives in the San Fernando Valley with him and her three chil­dren. 
Jack Hunter (Matthew Lawrence) 
Matthew Lawrence, of the famed Lawrence brothers, joined the cast of “Boy Meets World” in 1997 as Jack Hunter, Shawn Hunter’s older half brother. After the series ended in 2000, he continued acting, but no role brought him as 
much notoriety as his por­
trayal of Jack. In 2001 he 
played Jake Hunter in the Disney Channel Original Movie, “Jumping Ship.” His brothers Joey and Andrew also starred in the production. In 2002 he enrolled as a student at University of Southern California. That same year he also starred opposite Rob Schneider in the comedy “The Hot Chick.” He continued to make appearances on television shows like “Boston Public” and “CSI: Miami.” In 2004 he became engaged to his girlfriend Heidi Mueller, but the two later split up. He was also rumored to have dated Cheryl Burke from “Dancing With the Stars.” He currently lives in 


the Los Angeles area and hopes to become a zoologist someday. 
Mr. Turner (Anthony Tyler Quinn) 
He only graced our television screens for three years on “Boy Meets World” but Anthony Tyler Quinn’s portrayal of the lovable Mr. Turner left a lasting impression. Turner was the kids’ English teacher in middle school who tried to teach them life lessons through the works of great authors, while also identify­ing with the kids on a personal level, connect­ing especially with Shawn. The ladies’ man took Shawn in and cared for him when his father abandoned him. Eventually, Turner was in a motorcycle accident and mysterious­ly left the show, much like he did Hollywood. Or did he? Quinn had recurring roles on sev­eral television series during the 90s including “Melrose Place,” “Party of Five,” and “Caroline in the City.” More recently he has had guest spots on hit shows like “The Mentalist” and “House, M.D.” Look for him in four television movies later this year. 
Rachel McGuire (Maitland Ward) 
Ward was late on the “Boy Meets World” scene, first appearing on the series during the college years in 1998. Rachel was the tall, beautiful redhead that moved in with Eric and Jack after she broke up with her boyfriend. She quickly becomes the boys’ love interest and hijinks ensued. In the end, she headed to the Peace Corps with Jack. Since “Boy Meets World” she has had guest roles on shows such as “Boston Public” and “Rules of Engagement.” She also co-starred in “White Chicks” with the Wayans brothers. Ward is now happily married and will return to the role that began her career in 1994 with her portrayal of Jessica Forrester on the daytime soap “The Bold and the Beautiful.” 
Mr. Hunter (Blake Clark) 
Blake Clark 
played Chet 
Hunter on 
“Boy Meets 
World,” dead­
beat dad to 
Shawn and 
Jack Hunter, 
who haunted 
them even after 
his untimely 
death by heart attack. Still 
working today, Clark has a 
plethora of popular sitcoms 
and films to his name. Post­
“Boy Meets World,” he has 
appeared in television shows including “Community,” “My Name is Earl,” and even “Sabrina, the Teenage Witch,” another T.G.I.F. favorite. In addition, he is often cast in Adam Sandler films: “I Now Pronounce You Chuck & Larry,” “50 First Dates,” “Eight Crazy Nights” and “Mr. Deeds.” This summer, listen for him alongside Tom Hanks and Tim Allen in “Toy Story 3,” set to come out in June. It seems “Boy Meets World” was just a flicker in the life of this wide-ranging actor, who shows no signs of slowing down in the world of showbiz. 
Minor Characters 
Where are your other favorite characters that played only small roles? You can catch geeky Minkus from sixth grade played by Lee Norris on “One Tree Hill” as the lovable Marvin “Mouth” McFadden. And whatever happened to the bully with a heart of gold Frankie “The Enforcer” Stechino played by Ethan Suplee? You might recognize him as Louie in “Remember the Titans” or Randy on “My Name is Earl.” 
SOFIA ITURBE | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Wednesday, March 31, 2010 
NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Moore scores 22 points in UConn win over FSU 
Oklahoma comes alive in the second half of 88-68 victory over Kentucky and guarantees a spot in the Final Four 
points early then watched from a three-point play. Greene then 
Associated Press 

the bench with foul trouble as stole the ball in the FSU backcourt Charles and her supporting cast and fed Moore for a breakaway 
DAYTON, Ohio — Maya Moore stretched the lead. Moore then layup. and Connecticut are just two steps returned with eight quick points After two baskets by the away from their ultimate goal after the break as the Huskies Seminoles, Hayes hit a drive and after another rout in the NCAA sealed the deal. Moore swished a 25-footer 3. That tournament. Kalana Greene added 15 points made it 52-32 and the rout was 
Moore scored 22 points to lead and Tiffany Hayes had 13 points, on. the Huskies past Florida State 90-seven assists and five rebounds for “Boy, they make you play ugly,” 50 on Tuesday night, sending the UConn. The Huskies shot 61 per-FSU coach Sue Semrau said, shak­defending champions back to the cent in the second half to pull ing her head. “We missed a ton of Final Four and stretching their away while limiting the Seminoles shots but that’s because they did unprecedented win streak to 76 to 25 percent. such a great job in every area.” games. The Huskies are dominating The University of Dayton Arena 
Tina Charles controlled the unlike any team ever. No team has crowd’s allegiance was almost paint with 20 points and 14 come within 12 points of them all evenly split between the teams. rebounds for the Huskies (37-0), season. They have won their first One underdog-lover did wear a who advance to their eighth Final four games of the 2010 NCAA white shirt with red letters that Four since 2000 where they will tournament by a record 188 said, “Any 1 But UConn.” meet Baylor in the semifinals points — a margin of 47 points a Unlike so many of the wins dur-Sunday night. game. They are now 11-5 in ing the streak, this one was not a 
The 40-point victory was the regional championship games. runaway from the outset. Moore largest margin ever in a regional Moore, perhaps itching to play scored 11 points and was nearly final. after sitting out the last 12 min-perfect from the field, but also 
Jacinta Monroe had 15 points utes of the first half with two fouls, picked up her second foul during a for the Seminoles (29-6), who set a quickly helped put the game away rebound scrum at the 14:29 mark school record for victories while at the outset of the second half. with UConn leading 15-9. Coach going deeper in the NCAA tourna-On the opening possession, the Geno Auriemma then brought in Tuesday night to earn its second layup put Oklahoma back ahead ment than any FSU team before. Huskies went to their high-low his second big center, Kaili straight trip to the Final Four. 64-50 with 7:41 left. Stevenson 
Moore, selected as the regional’s game, with Charles wheeling to McLaren to pair with Charles, and Amanda Thompson added 17 then buried another 3 to give the most outstanding player, had 11 throw a perfect pass to Moore for also went to a trapping zone points and 14 rebounds for the Sooners an insurmountable a 19­defense. third-seeded Sooners (27-10), point lead. 
The Huskies built the lead to 22-who’ll face Stanford on Sunday in Kentucky’s speed and quickness 9 only to have the Seminoles San Antonio. had Oklahoma on its heels early, bounce back to cut it to 22-19 on The Wildcats stormed out to a though. back-to-back 3s by Courtney Ward 17-4 lead, only to watch as the Freshman A’dia Mathies had a and Alysha Harvin. Sooners rallied to go ahead 43-39 transition jumper, a steal and an 
A 10-1 run by Connecticut — by halftime. Oklahoma opened assist in the books 30 seconds in, Charles scoring six points and the second half on a 15-5 run, and Amber Smith’s no-look dish Hayes adding four, along with two then scored 11 straight points to to Mathies put the Wildcats ahead assists on Charles buckets — jump ahead 69-50 with 6:30 left. 8-0 and forced Coale to call time-pushed the lead to 35-22, the Victoria Dunlap had 31 points out. Huskies hanging on for a 42-28 and 12 rebounds to lead Kentucky It took six minutes — and six lead at the break. (28-8), which was seeking its first turnovers — before the Sooners 
Charles had 16 points and 11 trip to the Final Four. The hit a field goal. By then, boards, while Moore had 11 in just Wildcats stunned top-seeded Kentucky’s lead was already in over 8 minutes on the court. She Nebraska to reach their first double digits — and it appeared had scored 25 points in 25 min-regional final since 1982, but they that Oklahoma’s fears about the utes in the semifinal win over couldn’t complete the Big 12 Wildcats speed and quickness Iowa State. sweep in Kansas City. were coming to pass. 
The teams met in Tallahassee, After a brutal start, the second But Oklahoma soon found its Fla., on Dec. 28, with top-ranked half belonged to the Sooners. comfort level, erasing a 13-point Connecticut winning 78-59. “Well I don’t know what that deficit in the blink of an eye. Charles scored 16 of her 24 points was for the first five minutes, Danielle Robinson, who had 16 in the second half of that game as these kids have fought back all points and six assists, converted a UConn pulled away while shooting year. It’s sort of their identity,” 3-point play off a steal gave 49 percent from the field to FSU’s Oklahoma coach Sherri Coale Oklahoma its first lead, 28-25, 31 percent. The teams were even-said. “Their confidence was with 7:41 left in the first half, and ly matched on the boards, but the unwavering. I give them credit for she added a late layup to put the Seminoles had 21 turnovers that keeping their head and getting Sooners ahead by four at half-the Huskies turned into 26 points. out of it.” time. 
This time the Huskies forced 19 Stevenson — who finished one Of Coale’s three Final Four turnovers while harassing the point shy of a career high — fol-teams, these resilient Sooners just Seminoles on every single shot. lowed a 3 with a transition layup might be the most remarkable. 
to give Oklahoma its first double-Oklahoma lost the frontcourt Oklahoma 88, Kentucky 68 digit edge, 54-44. Danielle duo of Courtney and Ashley Paris 
Oklahoma withstood early Robinson then hit a layup, and and were picked to finish fifth in adversity, composed itself and Thompson’s open jumper put the the brutal Big 12. The loss of took control with balance, hustle Sooners ahead by 14. guard Whitney Hand to a knee and grit. Kentucky scored six quick injury early in the season cast fur-
In a game that mirrored their points, but that would be about it ther doubts over their national season, the Sooners pulled for the Wildcats. title hopes. But Oklahoma sur­through. Now they’re going back “Nyeshia’s performance tonight vived the nation’s toughest sched­to the Final Four. was unbelievable,” Coale said. ule — all 10 of its losses came 
Nyeshia Stevenson scored 31 Oklahoma responded with a against teams that made the points and Oklahoma blew past series of knockout blows, as NCAA tournament — and was at fourth-seeded Kentucky on Jasmine Hartman’s steal and its best in Kansas City. 


CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Fenced yard, 2-car garage.  If you or someone you care about  
WANTED  FOR RENT  Security.  NOTICES  PERSONAL  has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit  
Notre Dame's website:  
SUMMER SALES INTERNSHIP  2 bdrm, 1 ba home close to ND.  Near ND.  Graduation Weekend hotel rooms:  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  http.csap.nd.edu  
with an energetic start up company.  We have two rooms at the Hilton  not go it alone.  ———————————————  
Must have strong communications,  $675/mo. Utilities not included. 313­ 262-332-0015.  Garden Inn for ND-SMC graduation  Notre Dame has many resources in  CONSIDERING ADOPTION? ND  
computer, and time management  382-0536.  ———————————————­ weekend. Rooms are available  place to assist you.  ALUMS hoping to adopt. Please  
skills. Benefits include flexible loca­ ———————————————  House 3 bed, 3 bath, new  Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The  visit our website  
tion and work schedule for 20 self- rehab/clean,  Hilton Garden Inn is ideally located  If you or someone you love needs  http://www.pauldiana-adoptionpro­ 
motivated ND students who enjoy  gradrentals.viewwork.com  on SMC campus and right across  confidential support or assistance,  file.net.  
team competition. Design experi­ ———————————————  so close to ND you can see cam- from ND. Rooms offered at their  please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819  ———————————————  
ence is not necessary but a plus.  ATTN: Grad Student-faculty.  pus from the yard!  face value. If interested, email  or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more  Cleaning By Maria 954-657-1898  
Send resume to  fontanaricci@mac.com  information, visit ND's web site:  Homes, Apartments, Offices  
mmurtaghm@aol.com  Spacious 2-bdrm, 2.5 bath home,  Email alexrock@rock.com!  Email: mmmrentals@aol.com  http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu  Affordable and Relaible  
———————————————  LR, DR, FR, Florida Room.  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  




Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Wednesday, March 31, 2010 page 15 

Men’s Division I Tennis ITA Poll 

team points 
1 Virginia 25 2 Ohio State 24 3 Tennessee 23 4 Southern Cal 22 5 Texas 21 6 Florida 20 7 Stanford 19 8 Georgia 18 9 UCLA 17 10 Kentucky 16 11 Batylor 15 12 Texas A&M 14 13 Texas Tech 13 14 Louisville 12 15 Illinois 11 16 Mississippi 10 17 California 9 18 Virginia Tech 8 19 Oklahoma 7 20 North Carolina 6 21 Washington 5 22 Florida St. 4 23 Pepperdine 3 24 Wake Forest 2 25 Georgia Tech 1 

Men’s Division I Golf Sagarin Index Poll 

team  points  
1  Southern Cal  25  
2  UCLA  24  
3  Arizona St.  23  
4  Purdue  22  
5  Michigan St.  21  
6  Auburn  20  
7  California  19  
8  LSU  18  
9  Pepperdine  17  
10  Florida  16  
11  Alabama  15  
12  Oklahoma St.  14  
13  Georgia  13  
14  Stanford  12  
15  Ohio St.  11  
16  Duke  10  
17  Texas A&M  9  
18  Denver  8  
19  Tulane  7  
20  Arizona  6  
21  Virginia  5  
22  Tennessee  4  
23  Wake Forest  3  
24  Louisville  2  
25  New Mexico  1  




around the dial 
NBA Basketball 
Golden State at Utah 10 p.m., ESPN 


NHL Hockey 

Blackhawks at Wild 8 p.m., Comcast SportsNet 

PGA 




Woods awaiting pairings for Masters 
Associated Press 
ORLANDO, Fla. — Dean Wilson was in his hotel room getting ready to practice one Tuesday afternoon seven years ago when a PGA Tour official called to let him know the pairings were about to be released. 
Wilson didn’t understand why he was being contacted until he heard the names. 
One was a fellow rookie, Aaron Barber. The other was a sponsor’s exemption, Annika Sorenstam. 
“Someone from the tour contacted me and said, “The draw is coming out and you're paired with Annika. We want you to talk to the media when the tee times come out, rather than it com­ing out when you're on the course,’” Wilson said last week. “I knew it was going to be a big deal. I didn't know it was going to be a giant deal.” 
Imagine how massive the Masters will be. 
The two situations are nothing alike. Colonial was a celebration of Sorenstam becoming the first woman in 58 years to compete on the PGA Tour. The Masters could be a circus when Woods returns to golf for the first time since being exposed as a serial wife cheater. 
Even so, not since Colonial in 2003 has there been so much interest in tee times. 
Wilson's name essentially came out of a hat, thrown in with other rookies and play­ers with the lowest level of status. Augusta National has no policy with its pairings, other than the defending champion traditionally plays with the U.S. Amateur cham­pion. 
How will they decide who plays with Woods? 
“With great care,” said Colin Montgomerie, who is not eligible for the Masters this year. “You'd almost have to ask for volunteers. There's a number of players that will be looking at the draw sheet 
— I believe it comes out on Tuesday afternoon — and will be delighted if they are not playing with Tiger on this occasion.” 
So who gets him? Perhaps the better question is who wants him? 
“I would say it would be a tough pairing, to tell you the truth,” said 49-year-old Kenny Perry, who lost in a playoff last year. “I'm old enough to maybe handle that. Maybe you need some hillbilly like me to do that. But it will be different, because I'm sure the players will be focused on Augusta, yet focused on what's going on with him and paying attention to what he's doing out there.” 
Since his first Masters as a pro in 1997, Woods has played with only two American pros — Stewart Cink in 2000 and 2009, and Tim Herron in 1999. In eight of his 13 trips to Augusta, Woods has played with an amateur the first two rounds. 
IN BRIEF 
Steelers president says he’s 
‘disappointed’ in WR Holmes 
PITTSBURGH — Pittsburgh Steelers president Art Rooney II said in a statement that the team is "disap­pointed” in wide receiver Santonio Holmes is being accused in a law­suit of assaulting a woman in an Orlando nightclub. 
That incident followed another involving quarterback Ben Roethlisberger, who became the subject of a police investigation after a 20-year-old college student alleged he assaulted her in a Georgia nightclub. 
Since 2006, Holmes has been charged with marijuana possession in Pittsburgh, domestic violence in Ohio and disorderly conduct in Florida. The marijuana and domes­tic violence charges were subse­quently dropped and the disorderly conduct charge was dropped in exchange for a $250 donation to a police officers trust fund. 
Fifth spot in Phillies rotation 

goes to 47-year-old Moyer 
KISSIMMEE, Fla. — Jamie Moyer has won the fifth spot in the Philadelphia Phillies' rotation, a deci­sion the team announced Tuesday after its 5-2 loss to the Houston Astros. 
Moyer is the oldest player in the majors at 47. Kyle Kendrick, who was Moyer's competition for the spot, started against Houston and allowed one run in two innings. Manager Charlie Manuel assured Kendrick that he has a roster spot and would be an important part of the bullpen for the two-time NL champions. 
Michael Bourn had four hits, including two doubles and a triple for Houston. Carlos Lee had two dou­bles and four RBIs and J.R. Towles drive in a run. The Astros said Towles would be their starting catch­er. 
Astros starter Bud Norris struck out seven in five innings. 
Semenya prepares for return 

to running amid controversy 
STELLENBOSCH, South Africa — Caster Semenya is tired of waiting for track and field's ruling body to release results of her gender tests and plans to return to competi­tion. 
What's unclear is whether any meets will allow the world cham­pion to run” 
“I hereby publicly announce my return to athletics competitions,” Semenya said in a statement on Tuesday shortly after a meet in South Africa denied the 19-year­old's request to run. 
Semenya has not raced or spo­ken publicly since winning the women's 800 at the world champi­onships in Berlin in August, when her dramatic improvement in times and muscular build led the International Association of Athletics Federations to order gender tests. 
page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, March 31, 2010 
TENNIS 




Roddick beats Becker to move on to quarters 
Associated Press 
KEY BISCAYNE, Fla. — Since arriving on Key Biscayne, Andy Roddick has played H-O-R-S-E with D-Wade, hung out with 
T.O. and helped organize a charity event to benefit Chilean earthquake victims. 
He’s also squeezing in a little tennis. Roddick advanced to the quarterfinals of the Sony Ericsson Open by beating Benjamin Becker 7-6 (4), 6-3 on Tuesday. 
Seeded sixth, Roddick improved to 23-4 this year, and he leads the men’s tour in wins. He seeks his first Key Biscayne title since 2004 and hopes to prevent a potential showdown Sunday between Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal. 
Roddick’s hoops contest against Dwyane Wade was for laughs, as were brief get­togethers with Terrell Owens, a friend and tennis fan. The Chilean benefit is a doubles match in which Roddick will take part Saturday — the evening before the men’s final. 
“Even if things go great and I’m in the final, I’ll still play Saturday, just because it’s nec­essary and what needs to hap­pen,” he said. “It’s a bigger cause than my tournament.” 
Nadal, who could face Roddick in the semifinals, advanced by beating fellow Spaniard David Ferrer 7-6 (5), 6-4. Three-time champion Venus Williams became the first women’s semifinalist by defeating No. 6-seeded Agnieszka Radwanska 6-3, 6-1. 
To get past the unseeded Becker, Roddick rallied on the strength of his dominating serve. He dug out of a 1-4, love-40 hole in the first set and won 34 of his final 39 service points, including all six in the tiebreaker. 

Roddick said experience helped with the turnaround. 
“When things aren’t going my way, I’m probably better now,” he said. “Six years ago on the court my highs were a lot higher, and the lows were a lot lower. If I would have got­ten down early, I don’t know if I would have stayed the course.” 
A big serve helps, too. When Roddick found himself in another hole serving at 4-5, love-30, he responded with three service winners and an ace, all in the 133-to 135-mph range. 
“It’s nice at love-30 to be able to make some first serves,” he said. 
Roddick made another one on match point, closing out the victory with his seventh ace of the match and his 343rd of the year, second-most on the tour. He has been broken only once through three matches and next plays No. 33-seeded Nicolas Almagro, who eliminat­ed No. 27 Thomaz Bellucci 6-4, 3-6, 7-6 (3). 
The woman with the best chance to beat Venus Williams at Key Biscayne watched the women’s quarterfinals from the photo pit. Serena Williams had no camera but used her con­nections to secure a front-row seat as she watched her sister beat Radwanska. 
Top-ranked Serena has been sidelined by a knee injury since winning the Australian Open in January. In her absence, Venus has become the woman to beat as she bids for her fourth Key Biscayne title and her first since 2001. 

“When I’m executing and playing my best, it’s great,” Venus said. “It feels good, and I feel like I’m definitely dictating the points and that I don’t give my opponent as many chances to have a say.” 
The oldest women’s quarter-finalist at 29, Venus is the hottest player on the WTA Tour. She has won 14 matches in a row, and two more would give her three consecutive tournament titles for the first time since 2002. 
In the men’s fourth round, American Mardy Fish retired with a sciatic nerve injury trailing Mikhail Youzhny 6-1, 1-0. The injury occurred when Fish took a tumble in the first set, causing discomfort from his back to his calf. 

“I don’t think I’ve ever felt that much pain on a tennis court,” said Fish, who is com­ing back from knee surgery last September. 
No. 8 Jo-Wilfried Tsonga earned a shot at Nadal in the quarterfinals by beating No. 12 Juan Carlos Ferrero 6-2, 6-2. The fourth-seeded Nadal, seek­ing his first Key Biscayne championship and his first title anywhere in 10 months, punc­tuated his win over Ferrer with a nifty leg kick-uppercut com­bination. 
No. 5 Robin Soderling defeat­ed No. 9 Fernando Gonzalez 6­0, 6-7 (3), 6-2. 
The No. 3-seeded Williams hit eight aces and lost only five points on her first serve. She broke five times, including in the pivotal eighth game, when Radwanska had consecutive double-faults and then hit a 62-mph knuckleball serve that Williams pounced on to whack a winner. 
Williams struggled with her backhand but won 15 of 19 points at the net. 
“I play my best game when I’m more aggressive, because that’s my style,” she said. “Others don’t play as well as aggressive, because that’s not their style. It just seems to be better when I move forward, and I try to do that.” 
NHL 


Antropov scores final goal in Thrashers win 
Associated Press 
TORONTO — Nik Antropov picked the perfect time to get his first career goal against his former team, scoring the win­ner Tuesday night to help the Atlanta Thrashers keep their playoff hopes alive with a 3-2 victory over the Toronto Maple Leafs. 
Antropov tipped a shot past Jonas Gustavsson at 4:44 of the third period — putting Atlanta back in front just 57 seconds after Viktor Stalberg had tied the game. 
Atlanta remained two points out of the final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference with 80 points. Boston, Montreal and Philadelphia all have 82 points, but all three teams have played one less game than Atlanta. 
Antropov played his first nine seasons with the Maple Leafs and hadn’t recorded a point in three games against his former team. He finished with a goal and an assist. 
Maxim Afinogenov and Evgeny Artyukhin also scored for Atlanta. 
Viktor Stalberg had both goals for the Maple Leafs. 
With the Thrashers playing for the second time in as many nights, there was very little sense of urgency in the first period. Both teams were sloppy with passes and failed to create many quality scoring chances. 

However, Atlanta got the break it needed early in the second period after Leafs defenseman Francois Beauchemin failed to clear the puck from the defensive zone. Afinogenov was able to wheel around untouched and beat Gustavsson with a wrist shot at 6:18. 
Artyhukin extended the lead to 2-0 just 46 seconds later, tak­ing a perfect pass from Marty Reasoner and roofing the puck. 
Afinogenov had the chance to put the game away after jump­ing off the bench and taking a long breakaway pass, but Gustavsson managed to stop him. 
It proved to be an important save when Tyler Bozak and Stalberg went back up the ice on a 2-on-1 break. Bozak appeared to hold the puck too long, but managed to find his fellow rookie, who banked a shot in off Ondrej Pavelec’s skate to make it 2-1 at 17:43. 
The Leafs came out hard in the final period and Stalberg scored his second to even the score. He gathered the puck in the high slot and beat Pavelec high to the glove at 3:47. 

Wednesday, March 31, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 



Duke’s Scheyer ready for Final Four 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. — From the day he stepped foot on campus, Jon Scheyer was a dependable mem­ber of Mike Krzyzewski’s rotation. 
Then he took over at point guard, and Duke started being Duke again. 
With Scheyer running the show, the Blue Devils (33-5) claimed two straight Atlantic Coast Conference tournament titles, a league regular-season crown and their first Final Four berth since 2004. 

Duke plays West Virginia (31-6) on Saturday night in Indianapolis in the national semifinals, but the senior wants to wait until well after that before he even consid­ers the end of his career, saying “I can’t go there.” 
“It’s exciting, but for us, the goal’s not complete,” he said Tuesday. “That’s the way all of us feel. As much as you want to enjoy the Final Four and there’s going to be a lot of people want­ing to hang out and celebrate with you. That’s not what we’re going down there for. (Focusing) will be easy for us.” 
Scheyer has played in many roles during four seasons at Duke, growing from a scrawny freshman into a serious ACC play­er of the year contender. He led the team with 104 3-pointers and an average of 18.2 points this season. 
Those are the kinds of numbers he always hoped for when he was the starter at shooting guard in 2006-07. He shifted to become the Blue Devils’ sixth man as a sophomore and last year found himself back in the starting line­up. 

But it wasn’t until Krzyzewski’s tactical shifting of Scheyer to the point and insertion of Elliot Williams at shooting guard that the Blue Devils really took off. The switch stabilized the Blue Devils and put them on their path back to prominence, with a late-season roll carrying them to the 2009 ACC tournament title, the first of Scheyer’s career. 

MLB 


Venditte shows off both arms 
Associated Press 

KISSIMMEE, Fla. — Pat Venditte can see why he’s such a curiosity. It’s not everyday that a pitcher throws with both arms. 
Venditte showed off his ambidextrous talents for the New York Yankees on Tuesday, giving up one run in 1 1-3 innings during a 9-6 split-squad loss to the Atlanta Braves. 
“I understand where it’s coming from,” Venditte said. “And it’s my job to go out there and prove that I can pitch.” 
Making his first appearance for the Yankees, Venditte took over for CC Sabathia with two outs in the fifth inning and tossed four warmup pitches with each hand. Venditte switched back and forth, depending on whether he was facing a righty or lefty, and gave up two hits and a walk. 
“I think I have to,” he said. “I don’t have overpowering stuff from either side, so I think I really need this.” 
The 24-year-old reliever, who uses a six-finger glove, pitched for two teams in Class A last season and went a com­bined 4-2 with 22 saves and a 
1.87 ERA. He is scheduled to begin the season at Class A Tampa. 
Sabathia said he knew the Yankees had an ambidextrous pitcher in their organization, but did a double take when Venditte took the mound. 
“I’ve never seen anything like that,” Sabathia said. “I felt like we kept changing pitchers before I figured out what was happening.” 
If he makes the majors, Venditte wouldn’t be the first pitcher to throw as a left-han­der and right-hander. Greg Harris, who pitched for Cincinnati, Montreal, San Diego, Texas, Philadelphia, Boston and the Yankees from 1981-95, was a righty throughout his career. He pitched from the left side for two batters in the second-to­last game of his career. 
Yankees manager Joe Girardi had said he wanted to watch Venditte throw this spring and asked that the pitcher be sent over from the minor league complex for an exhibition game. 
Venditte started out as a righty in the fifth and retired Yunel Escobar on a grounder to end the inning. 
In the sixth, Venditte pitched right-handed to Matt Diaz and gave up a single. Venditte shifted to a lefty and fielded Nate McLouth’s sacrifice bunt. 
Later in the inning, switch-hitter Brooks Conrad came to the plate and by rule Venditte had to declare in advance how he would pitch. He went righty, Conrad batted lefty and grounded out. 
Venditte complimented catcher Jorge Posada. 
“Jorge did a good job of keeping me calm,” he said. 
Sabathia tuned up for his start in the major league open­er Sunday night at Boston, allowing five runs and eight hits in 4 2-3 innings. He has a 
7.23 ERA this spring. 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, March 31, 2010 
MLB 



STL prepares 2010 lineup 
Associated Press 
ST. LOUIS — Tony La Russa loves to tinker with the lineup card, using a whopping 135 variations last year in what was a pretty typical campaign. 
No doubt there’ll still be some juggling for the St. Louis Cardinals this season as La Russa factors in lefty-righty matchups and pitcher-vs.-hit­ter numbers. He will also have input from new batting coach Mark McGwire, whose hiring and subsequent admission to steroids use caused a stir. But a full season penciling in an order anchored by Albert Pujols and Matt Holliday fig­ures to provide much more stability than usual. 
“I think managers do what they have to, not what they want to,” La Russa said. “My favorite thing is to have a core of five or six guys, and you play around with the other two or three, keep your bench going.” 
The Cardinals were 91-71 last season and won the National League Central Division despite La Russa’s season-long search for a No. 2 hitter ahead of Pujols. A dozen players got a shot at that spot, 10 batted cleanup, 16 hit sev­enth and 12 more landed in the eighth slot, not counting the 48 times he batted the pitcher there. 
For the most part, La Russa will be working with a set starting eight. 
Cleanup intrigue ended when Holliday was acquired from the Athletics last July, and he batted .353 with 55 RBIs in 63 games. Ryan Ludwick, the primary No. 4 hitter before the Holliday deal, is now a fixture in the fifth slot. 

Pujols has owned the No. 3 spot for years, and was the unanimous NL MVP after bat­ting .327 and leading the league in homers (47), runs (124), on-base percentage (.443), slugging percentage (.658) and intentional walks (44). He had elbow surgery after failing to homer in his final 89 at-bats, counting the postseason, but the power stroke appears to be back. 
Brendan Ryan, one of five players to get at least 18 starts at shortstop last year, is now established as one of the league’s top fielders, and he returned in plenty of time from minor wrist surgery in early February. David Freese, acquired from the Padres for Jim Edmonds in 2007, will get a full shot at third base — a big change from last year when Troy Glaus couldn’t return from shoulder surgery until September. 
“What I wanted to do is come out here and earn the job,” Freese said. “I feel like I’ve been productive and pro­gressed over the course of the spring and that’s all I can do.” 
Colby Rasmus, who batted second about half of his rookie season, has batted more in the middle of the order during a strong spring. But La Russa isn’t totally adverse to trying Rasmus at second again behind leadoff man Skip Schumaker — even if it means both of his left-handed bats are at the top. 
Questions about the order were overshadowed at times by McGwire’s hiring. Big Mac 

SMC GOLF 

Belles finish third in Southwestern Invite 
conditions needs to and will 
By LUKE MANSOUR 

improve.” 
Sports Writer 

Matuszak finished second 
overall in the tournament with 
No. 3 Saint Mary’s took third a total score of 166, while place in the Southwestern Boyce scored a 168 to finish Invitational Tuesday in with a share of fourth place. Georgetown, Texas, with an Southwestern’s Kristen overall team score of 693. Davenport led the entire tour-Southwestern, nament with a the tournament combined score 
“We have work to do 
host, finished in of 164, and a 79 first with a two-to regain our on the second day total score of day clinched the 
ranking and pre­
677. title for the hosts. 
pare for our NCAA
The Belles Rosie O’Connor were also edged bid.” finished with the by UT-Tyler, third best score which finished for the Belles 
Mark Hamilton 

with a score of (18th overall). 
Belles Coach 

The Belles have 689. Belles soph­omore Natalie Matuszak and junior Mary Kate Boyce were both named to the all-tournament team. 

The third-place finish was a bit of a disappointment for Saint Mary’s, which finished second in last year’s tourna­ment and were also in second place going into Day 2, six strokes ahead of UT-Tyler. Belles coach Mark Hamilton was not pleased with his team’s overall performance at the tournament. 
“I’m not satisfied with the results,” Hamilton said. “Our focus and resolve under tough 

yet to finish lower than third in each of their three tournaments this spring season, and with their success thus far, a bid to the NCAAs is in their sights. 
“We have to work to do to regain our ranking and pre­pare for our NCAA bid,” Hamilton said. 
They will look to continue their successful season when they host a dual meet against Trine on April 10 at South Bend Country Club. 
Contact Luke Mansour at lmansour@nd.edu 
ND MEN’S TENNIS 



Irish seek doubles point in road matches 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will head south this weekend for a doubleheader against Southern Methodist and Texas A&M over the Easter holi­day, as Notre Dame is coming off a strong showing at the Blue Gray National Classic and a win over Northwestern last weekend. 
The doubles point has been a tough win for the Irish early on this season and they will need it to get off continue this strong doubles play in their tough matchups this weekend against SMU and Texas A&M. 
Watt and Havens have been strong at the top of the Irish sin­gles lineup already this season. Watt is ranked in the top-20 in the nation after a strong fall sea­son performance. 
Havens is coming off what Bayliss labeled as his cleanest singles match of the year as he 
won over Andrew 
McCarthy from 
Northwestern 6-1, 
6-4. 

Stahl was also was brought in after the Cardinals went 4-for-30 with runners in scoring position while getting swept in the first round of the playoffs. McGwire has patiently answered all questions about his doping days, though he will surely face more scrutiny when the season begins. 
The rotation could be one of baseball’s best, anchored by Chris Carpenter and Adam Wainwright. 
Carpenter was 17-4 and led the NL with a 2.24 ERA, returning to dominance after missing nearly all the previous two seasons. He was second in the NL Cy Young balloting, just ahead of Wainwright, who was 19-9 and led the NL with 233 innings while working six or more innings in 26 consecutive starts. 
Wainwright likened Carpenter to a shark and said he just followed that lead. 
“I’m like a remora, always looking for useful tidbits that he drops,” Wainwright said. “He’s always filled with knowl­edge and he’s a good teacher, too.” 
The bottom three has plenty of promise. Hard-throwing Brad Penny got a free agent deal off a strong finish with the Giants, Kyle Lohse was 6-10 in an injury plagued season but has had a healthy spring and was a 15-game winner in ‘08, and rookie left-hander Jaime Garcia won a three-way battle for the fifth spot. 
The Cardinals wanted Garcia to get more minor league sea­soning coming off reconstruc­tive elbow surgery that side­lined him most of last season. But he proved he was ready. 

doubles,” head coach Bobby Bayliss said. “We made a switch at dou­bles. [Stephen] Havens and [Casey] Watt are now together as well as [Tyler] Davis and [Niall] Fitzgerald.” 
The Irish were able to pull out the doubles point against Northwestern in a tough match. The team lost the first doubles match as juniors Dan Stahl and David Anderson fell early, but the No. 1 and No. 2 doubles teams were able to perform well. 
At No. 2 doubles the Irish duo of sophomore Fitzgerald and junior Davis were able to come through with an 8-6 victory. 
The Irish will be looking to 
to a good start able to come 
“We will certainly 
against both through for the 
look to strengthen our
opponents this Irish with a big weekend. doubles.” win and they will “We will cer-continue to look tainly look to for strong play 
Bobby Bayliss 
strengthen our after the 5-2 win 
Irish Coach 
in Texas. 

Anderson has 
come on strong 
for the Irish at the 
bottom of their lineup, including with his dou­bles play already this season. 
Bayliss said Anderson has a strong serve and uses his weapons well and that has helped him be more successful this season. The Irish have also had strong play from sopho­mores Sam Keeton and Fitzgerald to help propel them to 10 wins early in the season. 
The Irish will face off against SMU at 1 p.m. on Saturday before playing Texas A&M Monday at 6 p.m. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 

Wednesday, March 31, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 

TRACK & FIELD 



Streaking Irish face Texas teams 



Team splits up for 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
The red-hot No. 3 Irish will ride a three-game winning streak into Texas this weekend as they take on No. 2 Baylor and Texas A&M. The Irish are coming off a road trip to Wichita State during which they defeated tough opponents in TCU and Wichita State by a combined score of 13-1. 
Irish coach Jay Louderback was proud of his team’s effort and hopes they can carry it with them down to the pair of Lone Star State matches. 
“Tennis-wise, the kids played with a lot of enthusiasm, which will certainly carry into this next week,” Louderback said. 
With both matches on the road, the Irish (15-2) will need to get off to strong starts in order to take the crowd out of the match. The No. 4 first dou­bles team of sophomore Kristy Frilling and senior Kali Krisik has performed admirably, win­ning 13 matches in a row. Louderback has continually looked for the No. 2 and No. 3 doubles teams to match that level of consistency as he shifts the lineup around. 
“In practice, we’ve been working on doubles more. It is so important to get that first lead,” Louderback said. “We’ve been playing so much lately that we have just been practic­ing so the kids stay sharp.” 
The Bears (15-2) will pose a challenge in singles for the Irish, and particularly for No. 1 singles player Frilling. Baylor’s top player is No. 5 senior Lenka Broosova, and they line up No. 18 sophomore Nina Segerbegovic at No. 2 singles. Louderback said his team knows they are up against a challenge. 

“Baylor is ranked second in the nation. We played them three times last year, during the National Indoor, once in the regular season and at the quarterfinals, though we’ve never played at Baylor before,” Louderback said. “They’re an older team. Their number one singles is a top-10 player as well. Unlike what she’s used to, [Frilling] is going to get a chance to play someone a little better than her.” 
After taking on the Bears in Waco, the Irish will run into the Aggies (8-4) in College 



weekend events 
weekend. At the Arizona State 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Invitational, senior Joanna 
Sports Writer 
Schultz topped the list in the 400-meter hurdles, sopho-The Irish will travel to four more Kevin Schipper record-different sites this weekend to ed the best height in the pole compete in various events vault and sophomore Jack leading up to Easter. Different Howard won the men’s 800 
parts of the team will head to race. 
Arizona, Auburn, Florida and After the events, the team 
Purdue as the outdoor season will have Easter Sunday off 
continues for the Irish. before getting back to action 
The Arizona Multi -Event Monday. 
will be held Thursday and “This is a time to have a 
Friday while the Florida good Holy Week but we have 
Relays, Auburn to stay focused 
Tiger Track on track,” jun-
Classic and “A big part of being ior pole vaulter 
Purdue’s Mike A n d r e w
successful will be for 
Poehlein Kolbeck said. 
everyone to ignore
Invitational will “Having time off take place the meet atmosphere from classes Friday and and just perform like really helps Saturday. with this.” 
they do in practice.” 
“A big part of The matches Station. Texas A&M is riding 
being success-mark the begin-high after winning their first 
ful will be for Mike Smigelski ning of the final three conference games. 
everyone to month leading 
Irish thrower 
Louderback said the atmos­phere should challenge his team to be on their game. 
“The kids are excited about Texas A&M. They are ranked around 40. We always play well there,” Louderback said. “They have a great crowd base. They lead the country in fans.” 
The Irish will take on Baylor Saturday at 3 p.m. and Texas A&M Monday at 6 p.m. as they look to keep their recent win­ning streak alive. 
Contact Chris Allen at 

callen10@nd.edu 

ignore the meet atmosph ere and just perform like they do in practice,” sophomore thrower Mike Smigelski said. “If we simply focus on our coaches’ advice and stay relaxed, we will do really well as a team.” 
The events will mark the second weekend of competi­tion in the outdoor season. The Irish competed at the Arizona State Invitational and Stanford Invitational last Friday and Saturday. 
Three Irish athletes finished first in their events over the up to the Big 
East outdoor championships, which will be held in Cincinnati, Ohio. 
“The Big East meet really comes up quickly in the out­door season,” Kolbeck said. “We have to make sure every­one’s focused and ready to compete every opportunity we have, starting with this week­end so we can get everyone qualified especially in some of the new events that are added outdoor.” 

Contact Andrew Owens at aowens1@nd.edu 




SMC TENNIS 
Belles dominate in 9-0 sweep of rival Trine 
By MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
The Belles dominated Trine on the road Tuesday, winning every singles and doubles match handily on the way to a 9-0 victory. 
Trine is admittedly one of the weaker teams in the MIAA, said Belles coach Dale Campbell, but the Belles “are playing well,” Campbell said. 
Although the final tally made it look like it was a one-sided affair, that only held true in the singles matches, Campbell said. 
“We’re still getting stronger in doubles,” Campbell said. “A couple of our matches started out slow, though.” 
The competition is going to get tougher for the Belles. To keep the winning streak alive, they will need to continue to improve, and there is room for improvement, Campbell said. 
“We still need work at the net in doubles,” he said. “Our returns and serves could use work, and we still need to attack [the net] more.” 
The Belles should have vari­ous aspects of their game to work on during the weeklong break before their next match against Calvin. 
“[Calvin is] one of the better teams, if not the best team, in our conference,” Campbell said. “That could be a tough one for us.” 
The shutout win kept the clean sheet going for junior Jillian Hurley, who has yet to lose at the No. 1 singles spot this year and has not dropped a doubles match with partner Mary Therese Lee since the beginning of the season. 
Behind the ever-sharp play of Hurley and the steadily improving play of their dou­bles squads, the Belles are in top shape to face the toughest stretch of the MIAA schedule in the next few matches. 
After the home match against Calvin, the Belles have three straight away matches against Chicago on April 12, then Albion on April 14 and Kalamazoo on April 
17. If the Belles can get out of the Calvin match with a win, they will have a full head of steam going into the road stretch, which would give them a commanding presence in the MIAA standings. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, March 31, 2010 

Bookstore 
continued from page 24 
rebounds that they were then able to convert into layups. In fact, their athleticism later in the game allowed them to exe­cute alley-oops in the second half when the outcome was in doubt. 
“We executed our game plan to the best of our ability,” Lee said. “We play for keeps every time we take the court.” 
The Irish Amish, despite their high effort level, saw some inherent disadvantages that gave them an uphill battle from the beginning. 
“We felt that our conserva­tive dress and attitude and lack of height were big factors today,” Bastedo said. “I’m really confident in our chances in the women’s bracket. Next time we’ll slit the dresses a lit­tle bit higher.” 
You’re not that special 21, Team Cupcake 7 
You’re not that special (trust us, we read your application) a team of counselors from the Office of Undergraduate Admissions, defeated Team Cupcake, a squad of seniors with a large, supportive cheer­ing section in a long, defensive battle that was marked at times by sloppy play from both sides. 
The Admissions team was captained by Matt O’Rourke and featured Gabe Brown, Maureen Clark, Stephanie Nguyen, Chris Perkins, Charleen Vinalon and Julie Denkler, while captain Emily Stewart’s Team Cupcake squad played Mary Cecilia Mitsch, Lauren Miller-Lemon, Emily Chappell and Patty Carnevale. 
The size discrepancy between the teams favored Special, who used its advan­tage on both ends of the court, with Perkins and Brown rack­ing up block after block on defense and gaining as many as four offensive rebounds on a single possession multiple times. 
In addition, the Admissions team tried to utilize fast breaks but often missed the ensuing layup attempt, char­acteristic of the shooting from both teams. Team Cupcake tried to counter the size advantage with swarming, energetic defense on the perimeter and in the post, 


Loyola 
continued from page 24 
The Ramblers scored twice in the fifth inning between grab­bing three runs in both the sixth and third innings. 
Junior pitcher Jody Valdivia (18-3) lost for the first time since February, ending her 17­game win streak on the mound. She struck out eight batters and gave up five runs in her five innings of work. 
Freshman Brittany O’Donnell took over for Valdivia in the sixth and final inning, giving up three runs on one hit. 
“Losing that game does have some positives,” Wright said. “It’s going to be that reminder that we all need that we can’t take any team for granted, we need to attack improvement every day and that begins with the first inning.” 
The Irish were out-hit 8-4 by the Ramblers. Junior Sadie Pitzenberger had a double to right-center in the first inning using active hands to disrupt the Admissions offense. 

The contest got off to an even start before Special pulled ahead; Team Cupcake would not give up, however, and fought hard to the very end, as demonstrated by one sequence in which a Cupcaker took an elbow to the lip. 
“We’ve got fat lips and bruised knees, but on the whole, we came to play today,” Stewart said. “We were a little anxious about playing people older than us, but we had a great game.” 
The Admissions office, for its part, will savor a rare Bookstore Basketball victory before preparing for its next game after the Easter break. 
“It’s been a while for our office since we’ve won a game and so we’re happy to come out here, play pretty well, and get a W,” O’Rourke said. “It was a hard-fought game, and they played us tough. We’re going to enjoy this one for a while.” 
Team No. 1 21, Tiger Tiger Rawr 8 
In an all-senior matchup Tuesday evening, Team No. 1, a victim of censorship, defeat­ed Tiger Tiger Rawr. 
Team No. 1 had the obvious advantage in height, athleti­cism and number of Y-chro­mosomes. But instead of put­ting Tiger Tiger Rawr away immediately after a 5-0 run, they let them stick around. Team No. 1 tried to get fancy with alley-oops and no look passes, but to no avail. Once they settled in and decided to end the game, they did so. 
Tiger Tiger Rawr, clad in orange shirts with black stripes and consisting of sen­iors Gabby Mai, Carolyn Rumer, Colleen Nolan, Ellen Mrowka and Kiel Hockett, rode their youthful exuber­ance the entire game, despite being down on the scoreboard. 
“The Tigers had the tenaci­ty,” Rumer said. “We just did-n’t have the accuracy.” 
Coming into the game, Team No. 1, consisting of seniors Greg Cunn, John Baumgardner, Mike Lucien, John Langley and Ray Farabaugh, just wanted to “let the game come to us,” Lucien said. 
According to Team No. 1, who could nearly coast to vic­tory for the final points of the game, the deciding factor in the outcome was “playing four 
to extend her school-record hit streak to 25 games. Fellow jun­ior Katie Fleury had another hit for Notre Dame, while sopho­more Alexa Maldonado added in a team-high two singles. 
Lo ola­
y 
“This weekend will be 
Chicago’s Angie from a bad Funsten went 2 a good test on how loss, and being for 3 with two able to have a
we can bounce back 
runs and three good mindset 
from a bad loss.” 
RBIs while while taking on Brooke Andreson each of these scored twice on Kristina Wright teams. We are two hits. going to stay 
Irish sophomore
Notre Dame positive and will take on its keep on play-second Big East ing the game opponent of the season in like we have this whole sea-Rutgers (12-15) this weekend at son.” Melissa Cook Stadium. The Irish The Irish defeated the Scarlet know that their conference Knights in both of their two competition is some of the meetings last season. toughest in the country, and The two teams will meet that they will have to make a Thursday at 6 p.m. with a dou­comeback if they are to com-bleheader on Saturday with pete at that level against games scheduled for 11 a.m. Rutgers, a challenge they are and 1 p.m. ready to face. 
“We know that this weekend Contact Meaghan Veselik at we are going to bring all we mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
girls.” Apparently Hockett’s male presence was not enough to intimidate the all-male Team No. 1. 
“And we wanted to execute the cherry picking strategy,” Langley said. 
The Mantastic 5 21, 2010 Quidditch Olympic Gold Medalists 2 
In an entertaining all-female showdown, the Mantastic 5 led a rout of the 2010 Quidditch Olympic Gold Medalists, 21-2. 
The Mantastic 5 came dressed in tank tops and flan­nel shirts, while the Harry Potter-inspired Gold Medalists wore black outfits, capes and wielded wands. But when things got serious, the capes came off, the wands were tossed aside and some of the Mantastic 5 even lost the long-sleeved flannel. 
The disparity on the score­board never reflected the intensity of the game. Every rebound was contested, nearly every pass deflected and every dribbler was met with hound­ing defense by the opposition. 
The Manstastic 5 simply knocked down shots with greater consistency than the Gold Medalists. 
Even though the final tally made it look like a blowout, no one on the 2010 Quidditch Olympic Gold Medalists — freshmn Catherine Reidy, Patrizia Martellard, Maria Diamond, Brianna Piper and Meredith Kugar — were dis­heartened at the end of the game. 
“We just wanted to try as hard as we could, but have fun at the same time,” Reidy said. 
“We’re better on brooms,” her teammates added. 
The Mantastic 5 — juniors Allison Vicenzi, Amywren Miller, Eileen Flanagan, Delia Cronin and Sam Maxwell — “were looking for a complete destroyal.” 
“We model our game after the Bash Bros. from the Mighty Ducks,” the Mantastic 5 said. 
The Mantastic 5 played well, but in order to advance fur­ther in the seemingly nev­erending bracket of Bookstore, they will need to improve. 
“We have some practicing to do,” they said. “We expect great things in the next round.” 


Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu and Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
have to each game against Rutgers, and show that Notre Dame is better than what was displayed in today’s game,” Wright said. “This weekend will be a good test on how we can bounce back 


NCAA FOOTBALL 
Washington’s Locker excited for senior year 
Associated Press 
SEATTLE — Jake Locker could have spent Tuesday get­ting ready to perform before NFL scouts as the draft approached. 
Instead, Washington’s senior quarterback was on the field at Husky Stadium as the team began spring practice on an unseasonably chilly afternoon. 
Locker wouldn’t have it any other way. NFL money can wait. 
“I was really excited. Just the atmosphere, the intensity and the overall enjoyment that you have when you’re out here is something that you miss when you’re not,” Locker said. “It was great to get back out here with the guys and get yelled at and coached and play a little foot­ball.” 
Coming off a 5-7 record in Steve Sarkisian’s first season at Washington, Locker decided to put off the NFL for another chance at boosting the Huskies’ resurgence. The small-town quarterback who hears it from his teammates when he sings country songs was expected to be a high first-round pick. 
Locker didn’t wait very long to make his decision. Barely a week after the Huskies’ season ended, Locker announced he was returning for his senior year. 
“He had a chance to go to the NFL and chose to come back, which I don’t have a problem with,” said wide receiver Jermaine Kearse, the Huskies’ leading receiver last season. “I kind of figured he was going to stay. I had that feeling he was going to stay.” 
But there’s a new wrinkle for Locker’s final year. He agreed to a contract with the Los Angeles Angels last August after he was selected in the 10th round of the major league draft. 
Details of Locker’s contract with the Angels have never been released. He spent a weekend with the AL West champs this month in Arizona, and the 
Wildcats 
continued from page 24 

“I wish we competed better, but I don’t think how we played to do has anything to do with Georgetown,” Coyne said. 
The loss to the nation’s top-ranked team will do nothing to dampen the hopes of the Irish, who are still aiming for the No. 1 seed in the confer­ence tournament this year. 
“If we work on our game, our goal is to win another Big East championship and try to be the No. 1 seed in the tour­nament,” Coyne said. 
The Irish will attempt to take another step toward that Angels have been in talks with the school about whether he would be able to play at all this summer. 
Locker has said his top priori­ty is football, and declined to comment further about his base­ball situation on Tuesday. 
“The plan for him is to play football all the way. When Jake has a week off here and there, nothing mandatory going on, they’d like him to do some base­ball. That is where we’re talk­ing,” Sarkisian said. “A guy can grow mentally … in being in that clubhouse, in that locker room, in that dugout. But it’s the matter of can he handle it men­tally and physically so that he’s not exhausted in the middle of the season for us. We’re still working on that stuff.” 
Locker finally showed some of the polish pro scouts wanted to see during his first season under Sarkisian’s tutelage. He threw for 2,800 yards and 21 touch­downs, completing 58 percent of his throws. It was the third-highest passing total in Washington history and the TD total was fourth-best at a school with a tradition of producing NFL quarterbacks. 
He also had nearly 400 yards rushing and seven TDs on the ground, but often tempered his natural reaction to run. 
Now with a year of experience in Sarkisian’s offense, Locker said Tuesday felt far more com­fortable. With the NFL draft a few weeks away and a couple of teammates from last season expected to be chosen, Locker is having a hard time not keeping one eye on what’s happening at the pro level. 
But it’s not a view filled with second-guessing or regret. 
“(I’m) not putting myself there. I do like to watch it because it’s interesting and it’s something you hope to be a part of some day. I do follow it,” Locker said. “We have some guys that are going to be in it this year, so I follow them and see what people are saying about them.” 
goal when they travel to Washington D.C. to take on Georgetown at 1 p.m. on Saturday. 
Contact Luke Mansour at lmansour@nd.edu 





Wednesday, March 31, 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 21 page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Wednesday, March 31, 2010 

Wildcats 
continued from page 24 
selves, play together and play within ourselves.” 
Although this is the first year for the Big East conference in men’s lacrosse, the Irish have faced Villanova (6-3) in the past, and the Wildcats have consistent­ly proven to be a formidable foe. 
“Villanova is a team that has always given us trouble in the past because they play smart and with discipline,” Corrigan said. “You have to beat them, they won’t beat themselves.” 
One aspect to look out for is the play of the Irish goalkeepers. After senior Scott Rodgers went down with an injury against Rutgers, Corrigan turned to both senior Brendan Moore and fresh­man John Kemp, who made his collegiate debut in that game. 

But after the loss, Corrigan said he was most disappointed with the play of the offense, which has been relying on indi­vidual efforts rather than team play to score, according to Corrigan. 
Saturday should be a tough game for the Irish, but Corrigan said he is confident in his team’s ability to get ready this week. 
“This is a big game for us because we haven’t been playing well of late,” Corrigan said. “But we’ve had a couple good prac­tices this week and if we keep working we will be ready Saturday for what I expect to be a very hard-fought game.” 
The Irish will face off against the Wildcats Saturday at 1 p.m. in Villanova, Pa. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
Season 
continued from page 24 
could hope for, but the bench was not enough to lift them over the top. 
But in what appears to be the year of the Husky, when no one can make a legitimate claim to the national title besides Connecticut, maybe there is something more to be found here than just winning it all. 
Just ask the Irish players who faced Connecticut three times this year and lost all three games by double digits. Sometimes you just cannot impede the unstoppable force. 
But there was something about this Irish team that was truly special, and that can never be taken away from them. They had class, they 

had poise, and  butions down  
most impor- the stretch.  
tantly, they had each other. I can only speak as an  The story of Skylar Diggins has barely begun here at Notre  Christiansen, although she did not see the court very  
observer from  Dame, and the team  much, added to  
the outside, hopefully not a too terribly  is in good hands going forward.  that substantial senior pres­ence.  
biased one, but  Looking at  
the best analo­ this list of truly  
gy to what I  phenomenal  

was able to cover this year was a team that was a family. 
Of course there was the steady presence of Irish coach Muffet McGraw, always keep­ing the girls on track to do what they needed to succeed and get better. 
The veteran guidance of seniors Ashley Barlow, Melissa Lechlitner, Lindsay between these players. Schrader, Erica Williamson Juniors Becca Bruszewski, and Alena Christiansen can-Brittany Mallory and not be underestimated. Devereaux Peters are ready 

Barlow was the defensive to make the next step and juggernaut, taking on the take over that leadership opposing team’s position. best player and And do not 
shutting them There was something forget 
down on a regu-Diggins, who 
about this Irish team
lar basis. was able to Lechlitner that was truly absorb so organized the special, and that can much from offense and these great 
never be taken away
made sure players in so everyone was in from them. short a span 
the best position to succeed. Schrader was the hard worker that always put herself in position to make plays with hard work, and McGraw trusted no one more with the ball in pres­sure situations. 
Williamson stepped up to the plate late in the season and made some huge contri­
women to have taken the court together for the Irish for so many years, it is hard to imagine what this team will look like next year. When will the team be as together and formidable as it was this season again? 
But do not underestimate the teaching that went on of time. Diggins led the team with 
13.8 points per game and was tied with Lechlitner for the lead in assists with 3.2 per contest. The story of Skylar Diggins has barely begun here at Notre Dame, and the team is in good hands going forward. 
But as a graduating senior myself, I cannot help but feel nostalgic as the year comes to a close, and I begin to con­template the end of my Notre Dame career along with these fabulous senior basketball players. 
It reminds me that basket­ball (whether playing or writ­ing about it) and going to col­lege in general is just a step­ping stone in life to that next big phase. And if what I have seen is any kind of an indica­tion, this team and these girls are going to be just fine. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 


Wednesday, March 31, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 

MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Wednesday, March 31, 2010 page 24 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Big East brawl 
Irish look for road win at No. 17 Villanova 
By MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
The No. 18 Irish will face No. 17 Villanova Saturday in Notre Dame’s first-ever Big East road game. In the conference opener last weekend, the Irish fell to Rutgers at home 10-8. Saturday will be a good chance to get back on the right track against a chal­lenging conference opponent. 
The focus in practice this week will be getting back to what Notre Dame (5-3) does best as a team, rather than looking too far ahead or overthinking their opponent. Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said he wants the Irish to establish their identity as a team. 
“Our focus is almost entirely on ourselves right now,” Corrigan said. “That is not a slight to a very good Villanova team but an acknowledgement that we can’t win unless we understand our-
see WILDCATS/page 22 


WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Team falls, but players learn more 
A season begun with lofty expectations came to a close in the Sweet 16 on Sunday when Notre Dame lost 77-72 in overtime to Oklahoma. It was not the finish that many of the players probably expected to have happen after boast­ing five returning seniors this year as well as adding local fresh­man sensa­tion Skylar Diggins. 
The year began with a 15­game winning streak and a No. 2 ranking nationally, yet that was not to last. The Irish saw themselves with one of the deepest benches a team 

see SEASON/page 22 

WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Notre Dame falls 15-5 on the road at No. 1 Northwestern 
where we did some good recorded two goals and an up,” Coyne said. “They’re problem for us in other 
By LUKE MANSOUR 

things,” Irish coach Tracy assist. Junior Shaylyn Blaney, relentless in what they do, it games,” Coyne said. “They’re 
Sports Writer 

Coyne said. “We just didn’t sophomore Kate Newall and just forces you to play out of good, don’t get me wrong. I 
string together enough sus-freshman Betsy Mastropieri your comfort zone.” thought we had to good 
The No. 14 Irish knew they tained attacking opportuni-also scored for the Irish. The Irish were able to pro-chance to win or at least keep would have to put together a ties.” Northwestern jumped out to duce a fair amount of quality it close so it wasn’t the result complete effort from the out-It was the ninth straight loss a 6-0 lead and never relented, chances, but they were turned we were looking for.” set to beat No. 1 for the Irish (5-3, 1-0) against notching a 9-2 lead by half-away by Wildcats sophomore Despite the loss, Coyne said Northwestern. Unfortunately, the Wildcats (8 -0). time. Danielle Spencer and goalkeeper Brianne LoManto, she expects there to be no after falling behind early, they Northwestern now holds a 9-2 Shannon Smith led the who notched a career-high 11 carryover from Tuesday’s bad never got the chance to recov-advantage since the teams Wildcats with four goals saves. Northwestern outshot result when the Irish resume er, falling by a score of 15-5 began competing in the 2003 apiece. Notre Dame overall by a tally their Big East slate against in Evanston, Ill. Tuesday season. “Spencer and Smith played of 29-21. Georgetown on Saturday. night. The Irish were led by senior well and some of their sec-“We were getting chances 
“There were moments attack Gina Scioscia, who ondary personnel stepped and [not finishing] has been a see WILDCATS/page 20 
ND SOFTBALL 

No. 24 ND falls to Loyola 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
No. 24 Notre Dame saw its 11­game win streak end Tuesday when it fell 8-0 to Loyola-Chicago in a non-conference matchup at Loyola Softball Park. The Irish dropped to 24-6 while the Ramblers improve to 7-12. 
“Today was an upsetting loss, not because of the fact that we lost but how we lost the game,” sophomore catcher Kristina Wright said. “Our hitting wasn’t on, we didn’t make the adjust­ments needed to produce enough hits, and we just could-n’t string any together to get some runs. Our team needed to improve on all areas to win that game.” 
see LOYOLA/page 20 


BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Wet Bandits use size to take out IrishAmish 
By ALLAN JOSEPH and 
MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writers 
The Wet Bandits, a team of freshmen from Knott Hall, defeated the Irish Amish, a team of sophomore girls dressed in full Amish regalia 
— except for their Nike and Adidas basketball shoes — by the comfortable margin of 21­5 Tuesday. 
The Wet Bandits were cap­tained by Charlie Lee and consisted of Lee, Will Crowley, Tyler Smith, Tebo Bennett and Chris Carr; the Irish Amish roster incorporated Claire Kueny, Erica Vesnaver, Laura Yoviene, Analise Althoff and captain Megan Bastedo. 
The Amish’s humorous clothing belied a will to win the game evident from the team’s organized warm-ups and their commitment to a dribble-drive-kick attack on the offensive end of the floor. Their game plan resulted in open jump shots, but the Amish could not get their shots to fall and fell behind quickly. 
The Bandits were able to use their superior size and athleticism to make easy passes and find easy scores in the paint. Their missed shots usually resulted in offensive 
see BOOKSTORE/page 20 







