the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Students make cards for Sullivan family 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Student government delivered more than 200 letters from members of the Notre Dame community to the family of jun­ior Declan Sullivan on Monday, student body chief of staff Nick Ruof said. 
“The Notre Dame family is truly a family and it was shown over these past few days,” Ruof said. “Everyone came together to be arm-in-arm together in support.” 
Student government wanted to allow students to show their support for the Sullivan family after Sullivan’s death, Ruof said. In a Thursday e-mail, student body president Catherine Soler and student body vice president Andrew Bell invited students to bring notes and cards to their office in LaFortune Student Center. 
“As student government we 
see CARDS/page 5 



Grads’debt below national averages 
By LAURA McCRYSTAL 
News Editor 

Notre Dame graduates’ stu­dent debt is comparable to or less than national averages released in recent reports, according to Joseph Russo, director of Student Financial Strategies. 
Comparing Notre Dame’s stu­dent debt to averages in national reports is difficult, but valuable, Russo said. 
“We always benchmark,” he said. “It’s good to compare.” 
The Project on Student Debt, a national organization, released a report about stu­dent debt on Oct. 21. The report, titled “Student Debt and the Class of 2009,” stated that 2009 college graduates had an average debt of $24,000. 
Russo said the median stu­dent debt for 2009 Notre Dame graduates who borrowed money for their education is $23,588. This number includes government and private loans. 
According to The College Board’s “Trends in Student Aid 2010” report released last week, the average student debt for 2009 graduates of four-year, private colleges was $26,100. Russo said this num­ber is a more accurate com­parison for Notre Dame because it compares the University to its peers. 
“We compare pretty favor­ably on that one,” Russo said. 
Russo said Notre Dame grad­uates’ default rate for student loans is well below the national average. According to The College Board, seven percent of college graduates default, or fail to pay, their student loans. For Notre Dame graduates, however, Russo said the default rate is less than one percent. 
“So yes, $23,588 is a lot of money, but even in tough times our default rate seems to be decent and students appear to be managing their monthly payments.” 

While national reports such as The Project on Student Debt use both government and pri­vate loans to determine total debt numbers, Russo said he prefers to exclude private loans when analyzing Notre Dame’s averages. Private loans are discretionary for each stu­dent or family, he said. The University only presents gov­ernment loans, which include both Perkins and Stafford loans, as part of its student financial aid packages. 
“A University policy in 


British consul visits Notre Dame 
Dickson said. “This is my fourth campus visit, and I always enjoy them. It was a real privilege to visit Notre Dame.” 
Dickson traveled from Chicago to South Bend to meet with Jenkins Monday morning, and he said the two discussed cooperation in higher education relations. According to Dickson, higher education is one of the most important connections between the United States and the UK. 
Dickson said he recognized just how important education is for the future of, and the relations between, both nations. 
During his visit the Consul General also lectured in an Introduction to Political Science Class and toured campus. He said he enjoyed his visit and interactions with 
see CONSUL/page 4 


By CHRISTIAN MYERS 
News Writer 
British Consul General Robert Chatterton Dickson visited Notre Dame’s campus Monday to meet with University President Fr. John Jenkins and undergraduate students. 
Dickson was appointed Her Majesty’s Consul General in Chicago on June 26, and he said the job has been both fascinating and busy thus far. He is responsible for relations between Britain and 13 Midwestern states, including Indiana. 
He said his position involves a variety of responsibility in terms of relations between the U.S. and the United Kingdom, and the geographi­cal range of his responsibili­ties has led to frequent travel. 
“Campus visits are one of the best parts of my position,” awarding student aid in gener­al to try as best we can meet the full financial need of stu­dents, and we do that often by incorporating underlying gov­ernment student loans … not private,” Russo said. 
The median student debt for Notre Dame’s 2009 graduating class, excluding private loans, was $19,225, Russo said. That number rose to $20,625 for the class of 2010. 
While Russo said national reports can be valuable, he also said public and media 
see DEBT/page 3 


CSC, halls recyclecans for Worker 

By MARISA IATI 
News Writer 
Through a partnership between the Center for Social Concerns (CSC) and the South Bend Catholic Worker, Notre Dame students will contribute to the local community this school year by recycling aluminum cans. 
The program, called Miraculous Metals, began this week and will continue as long as students support it, said Michael Hebbeler, director of student leadership at the CSC. 
There are currently 22 resi­dence halls participating in the 
see CANS/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER ND Habitat gets to work page 3  Taylor Swift extravaganza page 10  Men’s interhall playoff wrap page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Tuesday, November 2, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT ARE YOU LISTENING TO ON YOUR MP3 PLAYER RIGHT NOW?

THE OBSERVER 









P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 

Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 

SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 

and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Laura McCrystal Mike Gotimer Kristen Durbin Megan Finneran Melissa Flanagan Andrew Owens 
Graphics Scene 
Melissa Kaduck Marissa Frobes 
Photo Viewpoint 
Pat Coveney Ren Brauweiler 
OFFBEAT 

Man robs bank, then offers $1K for a ride 
CAPITOLA – Police say a bank robber forgot to set up a getaway ride, so he offered $1,000 to people on the street for a lift after the heist. Capitola police said a man in his 40s or 50s entered a bank at 11:40 
a.m. on Saturday and ordered $20 and $100 bills from the teller. 
Police said the man then jumped onto the counter, pushed the teller and grabbed money from the till. They did not say how much money he took. 
About a block from the bank, witnesses told investi­gators that a man was offer­ing $1,000 to anyone who would give him a ride to 
Daniel Barrera  William Cowhey  Christina Tellez  Kate Albertini  Danny Domingo  Myriha Burce  
junior  junior  senior  sophomore  freshman  sophomore  
Alumni  Keough  McGlinn  Ryan  Fisher  McGlinn  

“‘I’m Shipping “Young “Jimmy Eat “Local Natives.” “‘Chillin’ – “‘Thinkin’ Bout Up to Boston’ – Forever.” World.” Wale.” U’ – Diggy Dropkick Simmons.” Murphy’s.” 



Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

Santa Cruz. 

The California Highway Patrol, Santa Cruz police and Capitola police searched for the suspect, but have not found him. 
Police believe is a tran­sient, and are looking to interview anyone who may have given him a ride. 
Man gets 5-day sentence for theft caught in photo 
MADISON – A man cap­tured in a vacationing fami­ly's photograph as he stole their bag in front of the Wisconsin State Capitol received a five-day jail sen­tence and a nearly $500 fine. 
The Wisconsin State Journal reported Saturday that Glenn Lambright was given credit for time already served after pleading no contest to misdemeanor theft earlier this month. 
Vacationer John Myers of Bloomfield, N.J., had set the self-timer on his camera and hustled into the frame with his wife and two chil­dren in August. Meanwhile, a man grabbed a bag con­taining Myers' wallet and other items. 
After discovering the bag missing, Myers checked his camera and found a photo with a man picking up the bag in the background. Myers showed the photo to police, who recognized the man and tracked him down. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
A blood drive hosted by RecSports and the South Bend Medical Foundation will take place today in Rolfs Sports Recreation Center. The drive will run from 11 to 5:30 p.m. Call RecSports at 631-6100 to register for a donation time. 
Mauricio Santillana, Jim Henson Fellow at Harvard University, will present the seminar “Modeling the Chemical Composition of the Atmosphere of Our Planet in a Changing Climate: Mathematical and Physical Challenges” at 11 a.m. today. It will take place in Fitzpatrick Hall, Room 258. 
Bill Miller will give the lec­ture “American Politics in the 21st Century: The Native Impact on American Politics” today at 3 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Miller is a Grammy Award-winning recording artist, performer, songwriter and activist and he will discuss the present and future impact of Native Americans on American poli­tics. 
A Feminist Voice Panel Discussion on Feminism in the World Today will take place in the Geddes Hall auditorium today at 7:15 p.m. The panel will discuss different perspec­tives of feminism, featuring professors from different fields. 
Stratford Caldecott, Editor of Second Spring and writer on Christian apologetics, theology, and culture, will give the lec­ture “Beauty for Truth’s Sake” tonight. It will take place at 
7:30 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 


53 45 HIGH 5548 4144
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

31 31 LOW 4033 2833 






Tuesday, November 2, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Habitat begins work on new house 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
Last month, Notre Dame’s Habitat for Humanity Club began construction on the 17th house it has built during its time as a student group. 
The club commits to build­ing one house each year for a family it chooses based on stability of jobs, support sys­tems and Christian values, according to senior Deborah Olmstead, who serves as club co-president. 
This year, Habitat’s house is being built for a family of four, which consists of a father and three children, Olmstead said. Their future plumbing, the house is built entirely by volunteers. 


“It touches me to know I’m giving families something they could not acquire on their own,” Olmstead said. 
Habitat’s funds come entire­ly from alumni donations and fundraising events. Their next event, Jail ‘N Bail, will take place Friday afternoon. 
For this fundraiser, stu ­dents can sign up to have themselves or a friend “arrested” by NDSP and brought to a makeshift jail on South Quad. The “bailout” fee is $10. 
Next year, Habitat is looking to travel abroad, Olmstead said. 
“We hope to go abroad on a global village project and help with construction proj­ects in either Mexico or Senegal,” she said. 
Olmstead, who used to be the family liaison for the club, said that she believes Habitat for Humanity enables families to provide opportunities for their children. 
“When I was family liaison we took a single mother and her kids to Mega Play,” Olmstead said, “and she came up to me and said I don’t get to do this kind of stuff with my kids.” 
Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 
home is located on Milburn Court in Mishawaka. 
It will be a 
one-story house, with three bed­rooms, two bathrooms, a basement and a garage. 
But Habitat does not simply hand out hous­es, Notre Dame 

“It touches me to know I’m giving families something they could not acquire on their own.” 
Deborah Olmstead co-president Habitat for Humanity 
senior and club co-president Olmstead said. 
“We do not give away hous­es for free,” she said. “The owner will have a mortgage that’s interest free and that’s worth the value of all the materials in the house. They pay that over 15 years.” 
Houses are built at the low­est cost possible by having volunteers do as much of the work as possible and by bar­gaining discounts for supplies from local businesses, Olmstead said. 
Habitat has had one regular weekend build so far this year, along with its annual Blitz Build event. The first regular build was attended by 25 to 30 volunteers and was a huge success, Olmstead said. 
“We finished our work two hours earlier than expected,” Olmstead said. 
Blitz Build takes place over Fall Break to construct the entire exterior of a home. 
“We invite past alumni to help us and we provide free 
breakfast and lunch for our volunteers, ” Olmstead said. “At the end of the day we go out to dinner together and participate in social activi­ties.” 
During the fall, builds take place on away football game weekends, and 
in the spring there is one nearly every weekend, Olmstead said. The next build is Saturday. 
Habitat for Humanity of St. Joseph County assists Notre Dame’s chapter of the organi­zation. Beyond technical work such as electricity and 


Debt 
continued from page 1 
attention tend to focus on extreme or individual cases of high debt. 
“Those are not representa­tive,” he said. “Look at [Notre Dame’s] statistics. People who start here actually finish on time … and they’ve had a good experience and they pay their loans off.” 
Summarizing student debt through averages is also a chal­lenge, Russo said, because each student’s financial situation is different. He said Notre Dame uses the median numbers when analyzing financial aid because it removes the “outliers.” 
“It’s always dangerous to quote statistics,” he said. “The biggest single challenge I’ve had in 46 years has been the need to provide good, simple, accurate … information.” 
However, Russo said he is confident when speaking about Notre Dame graduates’ ability able to handle college debt because a good education is an investment. 
“More and more, when we talk about affording education, we talk about seeing it as an investment,” Russo said. “Which, if you’re a typical Notre Dame grad, the return on your investment will be your lifetime and how you do, not just income-wise … but also your health, your longevity … your civic involvement. So many good things happen if you’re a Notre Dame gradu­ate.” 

Contact Laura McCrystal at lmccryst@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 2, 2010 


Consul 
continued from page 1 
Notre Dame students. Both the quantity and quality of student questions during his lecture told him a lot about the caliber of students at the University, he said. 
“I was impressed by the Notre Dame students,” Dickson said. “They were intelligent, thoughtful and engaging. I was also very impressed by 

the campus and “Our relationship advised British the spectacular officials and was 
with the United 
Basilica. I am involved in 
States is the most
keen to do more diplomatic nego­with Notre important tiations. Dame; I’ll be For a time, 
relationship we have
back.” Dickson was the 
with any country.” 
Dickson has joint-head of the had an exten-counterterror­sive career lead-Robert Dickson ism department ing up to his at the FCO in 
British Consul General 
current post. A self-described career diplomat, he said he enjoyed the variety of his 12 different positions during his 20 years of service. 
In 1990, he left his “more lucrative” job at a bank to work in the government’s Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO), and said he has never regretted that decision. 
As a British ambassador to Macedonia, he managed a team that aided the Macedonian gov­ernment in gaining admittance into both the European Union and NATO. 
Dickson described his work in the British embassy in Manila, Philippines, as both fascinating and challenging. He dealt with poverty, floods and earthquakes, but said he 


Cans 
continued from page 1 
Miraculous Metals program, Hebbeler said. Students can col­lect aluminum cans and drop them in designated boxes in their halls. 
Catholic Worker staff mem­bers, as well as people who receive support from the Worker, 


will collect the cans and bring them to a local recycling center. 
The  cans  will  
then  be  
exchanged  for  

money, which will support the Worker’s daytime drop-in center, Our Lady of the Road, and the nighttime shelter, the St. Peter Claver House. 
“There’s a men’s house and women’s house, and they take in the poor and marginalized, so enjoyed position and was struck by the spirit of the Filipino people. 

He also worked in the British embassy in Washington, D.C., which he said is most similar to his current position. 
“Our relationship with the United States is the most important relationship we have with any country,” Dickson said. 
He was involved in shaping the UK’s contribution to the 2003 invasion of Iraq that oust­ed Saddam Hussein. Dickson 
London. In that 
capacity, he said he managed teams that helped various countries develop strategies to counter terrorist activities within their borders. He focused on countries in South Asia, North and East Africa, and the Middle East. 
He described the work as both busy and unpredictable. One particularly unpredictable facet of his work was crisis response, wherein his team was responsible for advising the British Government on how to respond to terrorist attacks and activities. The worst attacks during his tenure were the shootings and bombings in Mumbai in 2008. 
Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 
cold weather. 

“They like to keep it small for fellowship and community, and they can take up to 10 men each night,” Hebbeler said. “They pro­vide a roof and bedding and cof­fee and breakfast in the morn­ing.” 
Hebbeler also said many Notre Dame students regularly volun­teer at the Catholic Worker. He said the visits create “a sense of solidarity of walking together.” 
“There’s good enthusiasm from the [residence hall] social commissionres, and we have a great partnership with the Catholic Worker community.” 
Mike Hebbeler director of student leadership Center for Social Concerns 
people looking for a home, look­ing for a roof, looking for com­munity,” Hebbeler said. “The houses open up their doors to those in need, and the people live there.” 
Most of the proceeds will go to Our Lady of the Road, where people can eat a meal, do their laundry or take a hot shower. The center supports 60 to 130 people each day. The funds raised by the Miraculous Metals program will support the center’s operation as well as building repairs. 
Hebbeler said these funds are especially helpful in the winter when the St. Peter Claver House provides overnight shelter from 

“There will be Notre Dame stu­dents spending the night with the homeless men as part of weather amnesty,” Hebbeler said. “Some of the money [from the metal collection] may be feeding volunteers. That’s what makes the Worker what it is 
— this sense of c o m m u n i t y . Notre Dame has a vital presence in the drop-in center and at the 
Catholic Worker.” 

Although the project is just beginning, Hebbeler said the CSC is looking forward to seeing the program’s results. He also hopes more Notre Dame students will become involved with the Catholic Worker. 
“There’s good enthusiasm from the [residence hall] social con­cerns commissioners, and we have a great partnership with the Catholic Worker community,” Hebbeler said. “We expect this project to bring more students into the community to see the impact.” 

Contact Marisa Iati at miati@nd.edu 



Student starts WWFF chapter 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 

In order to provide inter­national relief for malnutri­tion while offering a local twist, Saint Mary’s junior Meredith Rizzo opened a College chapter of the Will Work For Food (WWFF) organization. 
According to Rizzo, the organization, which was co-founded by Steven Weinberg and Josh Cohen of the University of Michigan in 2007, is a student-run non­profit which aims to fight malnutrition overseas by volunteering in the local community. 
“It is an organization that combines local community service with international relief,” she said. “So it kind of comes from the idea of a Dance Marathon or a Relay For Life where people get sponsors for, in that case, dancing or walking around, but we want to make the impact twice as big and so we do local volunteer hours out in the community and then find sponsors for that work.” 
The money raised from sponsorship is donated to Doctors Without Borders to buy nutritional supplements for malnourished children, Rizzo said. 
“It’s specifically this sup­plement called Plumpy’nut, and it ’s kind of like a peanut butter type of mate­rial that has all these sup­plements in it,” she said. 
Since 2007, Rizzo said WWFF has raised more than $50,000 to assist malnutri­tion. 
In addition, the organiza-Rizzo said the first work tion has been sanctioned by effort will be held Nov. 7. the Clinton Global According to Rizzo the Initiatives for Universities November project will allow in 2008 and 2009 and was students to go door to door an International Semi -to collect canned goods for Finalist in the 2009 Dell an area food pantry. Social Innovation Additionally, Rizzo said Competition. plans are underway for a 
The slogan for the cam-variety of other work efforts paign, Rizzo said, is “volun-including making cards for teering locally to make a soldiers and helping at a difference globally.“ local animal shelter. 
Rizzo said WWFF has a she wanted to goal of collect-
open a Saint ing $4,000 this 
“I think we’re
Mary’s chap-academic year, ter in order completely capable of and Rizzo to draw believes that 
[reaching $4,000]. I 
awareness to the chapter 
realize we’re a much
the issue of has the capa ­malnutrition smaller school, but I bility to while still achieve it. 
kind of like the 
assisting the “The head ­
challenge and I think
local commu-quarters team nity. we can do it.” at the 
“Child mal-University of nutrition has Michigan set 
Meredith Rizzo
been nick -us a goal of 
chapter representative
named the $4,000 for the silent killer Will Work For Food year, which is 
because a lot of people are unaware of it and it’s overshadowed by other crises,” she said. “I think this is a great way to take the things that girls are already doing in our community to make that impact a global impact.” 
According to Rizzo, each month the Saint Mary ’s chapter will hold a work effort. Each work effort will 
a l l o w  m e m b e r s  o f  t h e  
College community to  col - 
lectively volunteer.  

“I’m the chapter represen­tative for the Saint Mary’s community, and anybody is welcome to be involved,” she said. 
the same goal 
set for every 
other universi­ty, for Michigan State, for Ohio State, for everywhere,” she said. “I think we ’re completely capable of it. I realize we’re a much small­er school, but I kind of like the challenge and I think we can do it. 
According to Rizzo, stu­dents from Saint Mary ’s College, the University of Notre Dame and Holy Cross College, as well as members of the surrounding commu­nity, are invited to join in the cause. 

Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 

Tuesday, November 2, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 5 



Magazine switches to Webedition 

By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
Saint Mary’s yearly literary magazine, “Chimes,” is getting a new look this year. 
Seniors Sarah Sheppard and Meghan Price, co-editors of “Chimes,” are now taking sub­missions and recruiting for the spring edition of the magazine, which will be published online only. 
Sheppard said will they accept submissions from any Saint Mary’s student no matter her major or area of study. The mag­azine began in 1892, according to the Cushwa-Leighton Library website. 
“We accept poetry, short sto­ries, plays excerpts from novels or novellas; really anything fic­tion. There are art submissions too,” Sheppard said. 
Not all submissions are guar­anteed to run in the magazine, Sheppard said. “Chimes” has an editorial board of 10 to 15 stu­dents that read over each sub­mission and then discuss what pieces will go into the final edi­tion. 
“We’ll have a meeting in November or December then we have two submission dates. One’s in the winter and one’s in the spring,” she said. 
The first submission date for students is Dec. 1, Sheppard said. 
In the past, the “Chimes” board has sifted through up to 60 pages of prose and poetry to narrow down and put together an edi­tion. 
Previously, the publication has had a print version, but in order to accept more submissions, Sheppard said they have moved to creating only an online edition of “Chimes.” 
“That is the best part about switching over to online, we can print a lot more,” Sheppard said. 
Price said the final publication is e-mailed to alumnae and pro­fessors so the student work is more widely read. 
Students are not limited as to what they can send in to “Chimes,” but Sheppard said they generally only print two or three pieces from a single author. 
“We accept as many submis­sions as someone wants to send,” Sheppard said. 
Price said “Chimes” is still looking for students interested in editing as well as writing submis­sions. She added that she enjoyed seeing the creativity of Saint Mary’s students. 
“I got into ‘Chimes’ because I love editing and publishing,” Price said. “That is what I want to go into. It’s a great group of girls. Girls get into it and it’s real­ly fun to read all the interesting things girls here write.” 

Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 



ship in Declan’s name, Ruof said. 
“We want to show support for the family as well as for the men of Fisher and the women of Lewis,” Ruof said. 
Ruof said student government would also organize a tribute to Sullivan during the home game against Utah on Nov. 13 to show continued support in the Notre Dame community for Sullivan’s family. 

Contact Christian Myers at cmyers8@nd.edu 


Cards 
continued from page 1 

wanted a cohesive effort to send things to the family instead of berating them with mail,” Ruof said. “We wanted a unified student body response to the Sullivan family.” 
The Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore donated 200 cards that were available at the reception following Thursday’s Mass of Remembrance in honor Ruof said. 
of Sullivan. The  dents, football  
remaining cards were later avail­ “We wanted to be a  players, student athletic man- 
able in the stu­dent govern­ment office, and they were all  place for students to send their sympathies through  agers and video­graphers from campus to Sullivan’s funer­ 
used, according to Bell. Students  us to the family.”  al in Buffalo Grove, Ill.  
also placed many other  Nick Ruof  Monday. V a r i o u s  
envelopes in the  chief of staff  administrators,  
collection box,  deans and rep- 
Bell said.  resentatives of  

Ruof said the fact that many students who did not know Sullivan wrote letters to his family represents the manner in which the student body has united following Wednesday’s accident. 
“We want to let the Sullivan family grieve,” Ruof said. “We want to give them their privacy but facilitate the student body’s sympathies to the family at the same time.” 
Bell said the University pro­vided buses to transport stu-
Student Affairs were also pres­ent at Monday’s funeral Mass, Bell said. 
The University is looking to work with Fisher Hall and the Financial Management Board to create a memorial scholar-
Student government collected cards throughout the weekend so students had time to reflect, Ruof said. 
“We wanted to be a place for students to send their sympa­thies through us to the family,” 

The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 6 Tuesday, November 2, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 
‘Tis the season 

The other day, when my roommate and I were shopping for Halloween cos­tume accessories, we stumbled across Christmas decorations in the third aisle of Michael’s. While most would argue that late October is too early to begin celebrating the Christmas season, we were both elat­ed and immediate­ly decided to pur­chase a “Happy Holidays” scented candle and gold colored plastic Alex Kilpatrick reindeer for our common room. 

Assistant This begs the News Editor question, when is the proper time to begin partaking in Christmas festivities? Some say as soon as the adorned store doors open for frenzied shoppers looking to get the best deals on Black Friday; others, when the holiday drinks go on sale at Starbucks or the storefront window display goes up at Marshall Field’s in Chicago. I’ve always been ahead of the game in my desire to partake in the holiday spirit. On elementary school bus rides, I would attempt to convince my bus driver to allow us to sing Christmas carols before Thanksgiving break, with no avail. The rule was steadfast — no singing before Thanksgiving. No excep­tions. Such a preponderance of rules against the early celebration of the Christmas holiday only increased my eagerness to begin the festivities ahead of schedule. Even today, I’m that girl who listens to Christmas music in October. I was more than ecstatic this year when I realized that 102.3 FM The Stream had completely switched over to Christmas music over Fall Break. I also currently have seven Christmas stations on my Pandora site, created from a wide range of Christmas tunes, including Dean Martin’s “Baby, It’s Cold Outside,” John Lennon’s “Happy Xmas (War is Over),” Vince Guaraldi Trio’s “Christmas Time is Here” from “A Charlie Brown Christmas” and Burl Ives’ holiday music from everyone’s favorite stop-motion animated TV spe­cial, “Rudolph the Red-Nosed Reindeer.” Starbucks’ advertisement of their holiday drinks only advances the cause. Gingerbread lattés, peppermint mochas and eggnog lattés are invariably the reason that I exhaust my Flex Points by the end of fall semester each year, leav­ing nothing on my card with which to purchase any last minute Christmas gifts for friends and family. My family and I have our signature Christmas movie traditions, from view­ing “Home Alone” on Thanksgiving evening, only pausing to break for pie, be it pumpkin or chocolate pecan, to watching “Christmas in Connecticut” before midnight mass on Christmas Eve. Whatever I’m doing to celebrate Christmas, I always appreciate the spirit with which people partake in the holiday season, showing gratitude for everything and everyone in their lives. No matter when you begin the Christmas season, whether you spend it with family or friends, make sure to be grateful for all with which you are blessed. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Alex Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 
More than just a game 
As the clock hit zero this past Saturday, the meaning went well beyond the fact that Notre Dame had just suffered another (record-break­ing) loss. It meant that it was time to go back to reali­ty. For a univer-Andy Ziccarelli sity that was still grieving the loss 
Moments of 
of one of its fam-
Inertia 

ily members, we could no longer distract ourselves with a game. But, at least for a period of a few hours on Saturday, we did our best to take the pain that we felt as a community and channel it into something positive. 
At their most basic level, sports are just games. The dictionary defines the word “game” as “an amusement or pastime.” And in many respects, that’s exactly what they are. Think about it: football is group of 11 play­ers trying to tackle someone from another group of 11 players that is attempting to carry a goofy-shaped ball past a line. Hockey sounds even worse: two teams of six players on ice skates attempting to hit a rubber disc into a net using a wooden stick. When it is put this way, it sounds ridiculous that millions of people would spend their time watching these games, and even more ridiculous that grown men are being paid millions of dollars to play them. In American society, though, sports have a meaning that goes far beyond what physically goes on in between the lines. 
American culture is one of intense competition. Not just in athletics, mind you, but in everything we do. This culture of competition and con­stant need to better your neighbor is part of what keeps us on edge and, for better or for worse, is an ingrained part of who we are as a people. People compete in business, in the classroom and, yes, even in parenting. So, it should come as no surprise that people follow sports with the same vigor and intensity that 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
they do with everything else in life. People need a way to stoke their com­petitive fire, so to speak, and follow­ing a sports team provides the perfect opportunity to do that. 
In a much different light, sports can be used as a form of therapy or as some form of release. Obviously, this was the case for the Notre Dame community this past weekend, but there are countless examples of this phenomenon that we can see throughout America. The most promi­nent example of this was right after Sept. 11. The whole world took a few days to grieve and recover, and right­fully so. But after a few days, there was a big push in America to “return to normalcy” and one of the biggest ways that we could do this was to start playing sports again. People who had lost friends and loved ones tuned into the games because, at least for a few hours, they could con­centrate on cheering and pitching changes and yelling at officials, and not on what they had lost. Sports had provided them a chance to be normal again. On a much smaller (and less significant) level, I had the opportuni­ty to spend my summer in Arizona this past year. And for the first few weeks, I was busy, overwhelmed and, most importantly, homesick. But every time they were on television, I tuned in to watch the Chicago Cubs, no matter how poorly they were play­ing, because seeing the ivy on the outfield walls and hearing the Wrigley Field organ playing brought me to a place much closer to my friends and family back home. 
Most importantly, though, sports can be used as a galvanizing force, one that can unite millions of people across gender, race, political and gen­erational barriers like nothing else in the world can. I had the fortune of sitting next to a retired plumber from South Boston a few years ago at a spring training baseball game. He grew up poor, had never been to col­lege and, basically, shared nothing in common with me. Except for one very important similarity — we both loved baseball. And so for the next three hours, we became best friends that were born 50 years apart, talking about strategy and players and old teams. I never saw him again and never will, but for that day, baseball had brought us together. 
When people go to the voting booths today, there will be an intense and sharp divide based on fundamental philosophical differences and social conditions. And yes, there still are neighborhoods in America separated by race, with hard and bitter feelings on both sides. But once the ball is kicked off, or the first pitch is thrown, or the puck is dropped, none of that matters. We are all one. It didn’t mat­ter whether you were a white-collar executive working in the Loop or an auto mechanic living on 91st Street last spring; as a Chicagoan, we could all agree on the Blackhawks. And when the Hawks brought home the Stanley Cup, over two million people packed the streets of the city to cele­brate, almost three times the number that celebrated with fellow Chicagoan Barack Obama after he was elected president. 
There are an uncountable number of stories that could be told about relationships formed and adventures taken, all in the name of following your team. For the rest of our lives, we will reunite with Notre Dame fans and alumni on Saturdays in the fall to watch the Irish. And while people will label sports as “just games,” we know that isn’t true. They are so much more than that. 
Andy Ziccarelli is a senior majoring in civil engineering. He welcomes your adulation and veiled threats at aziccare@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Perhaps the feelings we experiencewhen we are in love represent anormal state. Being in love shows aperson who he should be.” 
Anton Chekhov Russian playwright 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Life is a great big canvas; throw allthe paint on it you can.” 
Danny Kaye
U.S. actor 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, November 2, 2010 page 7 
Record doesn’t lie 
Joe Donnelly the legislator is a lot differ­ent than Joe Donnelly the campaigner. His record contradicts what he is campaigning on. He wants you to think he has support­ed policies that have created jobs, is fiscal­ly prudent, and is 
independent, but  Mickey Gardella  
his record points  
starkly in the  Guest Column  
other direction.  
The fact is Joe  

Donnelly voted with Nancy Pelosi 88 per­cent of the time, voted for the trillion-dollar (at least) government takeover of health care, and voted for the $800 billion stimu­lus that sent taxpayer dollars to foreign firms while the American economy has lost about three million jobs since it passed. The Democrats promised the unemploy­ment rate would not rise above eight per­cent if the government implemented the stimulus. Not surprisingly, the unemploy­ment rate is still over nine percent. 
No one has to wonder where Indiana State Representative Jackie Walorski stands on the issues. As Assistant Floor Leader in the Indiana House of Representatives, Jackie was a leader in the fight for a balanced budget and responsi­ble government. Jackie’s message is very simple: cut spending, cut taxes and get the government out of the way so businesses can expand and create jobs. 
While many states are in fiscal disaster, Indiana has sound finances. She is a com­mitted budget hawk, who wants less gov­ernment and lower taxes. The longer the federal government drags its feet on the economy, the more painful Indiana’s budg­et and other state budgets will be. 
Donnelly the campaigner would have you believe he has fought for a balanced federal budget, when in reality the nation­al debt has risen $5 trillion since he and the Democrats took office in 2007. He says he supports using unused stimulus funds to pay down the debt. With his record of nearly maxing out the nation’s credit card, why should we believe him? Do his empty campaign promises trump his record of reckless spending? 
Donnelly says he supports the extension of the Bush tax cuts for two years. Does anyone seriously think that we will be out of the woods in two years? So instead of supporting it now, Joe Donnelly supports the largest tax increase in American histo­ry two years down the road. I’m sure the business community is thrilled. 
Every American person, family and busi­ness will pay higher taxes if Joe Donnelly gets his way, whether next year or in two years. He refuses to unequivocally support no new tax increases, and his and the Democrats’ position has a crippling effect on business and consumer confidence in this country. 
In Indiana Jackie was part of a coalition that turned a budget deficit into a surplus. She was a leader in the fight for property tax reform and supported legislation that brought Hoosier homeowners the largest property tax decrease in state history. 
She has made it clear to the Republican leadership that, if elected, she will not rub­ber stamp whatever they introduce. She will stick to her limited government, pro-business, and pro-life principles no matter the situation. 
Every federal agency and department 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Missed opportunities 
I saw and heard President Jenkins’ prayer for Declan Sullivan at the start of the Tulsa game on TV from my home in northwest Michigan. However pre­sumptuous of me to improve on his prayer, I nonetheless wish I had heard Father Jenkins speak a final paragraph something like this: 
“And finally, Heavenly Father, we ask your forgive­ness. We, particularly those of us in the administra­tion and athletic department of this University, ask that You forgive us of our terrible, grievous mistake of judgment in allowing, permitting and directing this young man, who was not only our student but our employee, to assume a position high on a dan­gerous piece of equipment under the extreme weath­er conditions that prevailed this past Wednesday afternoon. We also ask the forgiveness of Mr. Sullivan’s parents, his sister (also a member of the Notre Dame family here on campus), the rest of his family, his classmates and friends. 
This we ask in Your name ... [etc.]” 
My sympathy for Mr. Sullivan’s family and friends is boundless. Speaking now as a lawyer, however, I’m fully aware that this addendum to Father Jenkins’ prayer would cause a severe case of apoplexy on the part of the University’s lawyers. But neither they nor the administration should be con­cerned with such issues, so mundane in the circum­stances; rather, simply put, they should do what’s right. Moreover, legal liability in this case is clear, and will undoubtedly be admitted at some point in settlement negotiations or even during litigation itself, should it come to that. Notre Dame’s only defense will be a partial one, one based on an attempt to limit damages by reason of the fact that Mr. Sullivan had no dependents, was not married, and had no children. 
Father Jenkins missed a big opportunity to seek forgiveness and express sorrow, not only for Mr. Sullivan’s death, but for the actions of the University. Hopefully, he will not miss another. 
Franklin A. (Steve) Morse II 
alumnus Law School Class of 1964 Nov. 1 

must be audited to cut waste and fraud. She supports freezing spending with the exception of defense to restore sanity to the system. Jackie supports extending all of the Bush tax cuts permanently to instill a sense of certainty in businesses and con­sumers. 
The number one obstacle to economic growth in Indiana is the federal govern­ment. Joe Donnelly voted for the health care law that more Americans oppose than favor consistently in poll after poll. Donnelly claims he supports small busi­nesses, but the health care law is loaded with regulations and mandates on busi­nesses. 
The law that Donnelly voted for requires businesses to file 1099 forms with the IRS each time they purchase something that exceeds $600. The business community is understandably up in arms, as this sense­less requirement, among many others in the law, will divert billions of dollars to sat­isfy the demands of big government instead of creating jobs. 
Donnelly was somehow convinced at the final moment that the health care bill would not cover abortions because of an executive order from the most pro-choice president in U.S. History. The language of the law has not changed; it leaves the door open to taxpayer-funded abortions, as pro-life groups affirm. Accordingly, pro-life groups like National Right to Life have thrown their support behind the truly pro-life candidate, Jackie Walorski. 
Jackie Walorski supports the repeal of the disastrous Obama Care law and will return the focus to the doctor-patient rela­tionship instead of putting the IRS and the Department of Health and Human Services in charge of your health care. She supports interstate purchase, coverage for pre­existing conditions, tax-free health savings accounts, and medical malpractice reform. 
Because of his devastating legislative record, Donnelly has resorted to distorting Jackie’s positions. Independent watchdog groups have called out Donnelly on his ads. He said Jackie supported the elimination of Pell Grants for students, which Fact Check.org said is not true. 
He said she supports the privatization of Social Security, which is not true. The Associated Press said that Donnelly’s attack ads on Social Security “do not resemble actual Republican proposals.” 
Jackie wholeheartedly supports Social Security for current beneficiaries and those nearing retirement. She has pro­posed that Americans have a serious con­versation about reforming the system for younger generations because it is going broke. She supports allowing younger gen­erations to invest a portion of their payroll taxes in personal accounts. 
Don’t let Joe Donnelly fool you. If re­elected he will continue the failed Obama-Pelosi-Reid agenda, while Jackie Walorski will lead to spur job creation and get gov­ernment spending under control. 
Mickey Gardella is a sophomore and the Chairman of the Notre Dame College Republicans Campaign Committee. He can be reached at mgardell@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Spirit alive despite finger pointing 
In the midst of investigations and allegations and finger-pointing and blame, the Notre Dame family gathered at Sacred Heart Church in a very real demonstration of what Notre Dame is all about. 
Sure, the Notre Dame haters will say the place is all about football and money and NBC’s weekly paychecks to the bean counters under the Golden Dome. 
And maybe in a way it is. 
And they will accuse the football coaching staff of not exercising good judgement when they did not bring Declan Sullivan off the scissor lift when the winds kicked up. 
And clearly they did not. 
And they will laugh at all the lawyers who will conspire to make a mint in fees from the law­suits that inevitably will be filed. 
And they will. 
But the students, the family that is Notre Dame, will see none of this. Lost in this adult-sized maelstrom will be the students — Notre Dame’s sons and daughters, the ones that gath­ered as a family at the Sacred Heart church to celebrate Declan’s life. 
Now certainly, such a gathering is not unique to Notre Dame. It happens in other places during other times of loss. However, what is unique is the familial spirit that binds Notre Dame stu­dents and alumni and subway alumni — all the people who love the place, many of whom can’t even explain why. 
Many of the kids who gathered — especially the ones who didn’t know Declan — felt sad in a way they didn’t understand. After all, Declan wasn’t their son or their brother or even their friend. 
However, as every Notre Dame student and alumni knows, he was all of those things and, in a special way, perhaps more. 
You see, this is the real spirit of Notre Dame — the one we sing about in the Victory March and honor in the Alma Mater. It is intangible. It is inexplicable. And it binds the sons and daugh­ters of Notre Dame together as much as any fam­ily or friendship. 
It is this spirit that makes all of us who never knew Declan Sullivan shed tears at his tragic passing. 
It is this spirit that the students will cling to when they go home for breaks and are asked by people about “the kid who died filming the foot­ball team.” 
It is what they will remember long after they leave Notre Dame. 
And it is most likely the reason that a young man named Declan Sullivan brought his dreams and committed his heart to this special place we lovingly call Notre Dame. 
Frank LaGrotta 
alumnus Class of 1980, 1981 Oct. 29 

Where is the accountability? 
Dear Editors: 
What must be determined in Declan Sullivan’s death is the individual responsible for him being over 40 feet in the air in a device that was not to be used in winds over 25 mph. The space shuttle Challenger blew up because one man at NASA wanted it to fly in weather that was too cold for its components so that President Reagan could use the success in his State of the Union address. That man was a bully and people died because of him. If we have another bully on campus responsibe for Declan’s death, punishment should be swift. 
Thank you, 
Robert Lach 
alumnus Class of 1988 Oct. 28 


The Observer

Scene
Tuesday, November 2, 2010 page 9 


MELISSA KADUCK | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, November 2, 2010 

NFL 

Vikings cut Moss after four-week reunion 
Associated Press 
EDEN PRAIRIE, Minn. — Just four weeks ago, Randy Moss gushed about returning to Minnesota. He felt fortunate to return to his first team and was looking forward to seeing those purple No. 84 jerseys again. 
So much for the happy reunion. 
After three disappointing loss­es in four games, the Vikings decided to dump the six-time Pro Bowl wide receiver follow­ing a loss to New England that had Moss wistful about his Patriots days during a bizarre postgame rant. It was another shocker in tumultuous season for a team that began the year with Super Bowl aspirations. 
Vikings players confirmed Monday that coach Brad Childress informed them during a team meeting that Moss had been let go, a few minutes after the NFL Network first reported struggling Minnesota (2-5) had waived him less than a month after acquiring him from New England for a third-round draft pick. 
Childress and team officials didn’t respond to messages seeking confirmation of the decision. Moss’s locker at Winter Park remained full of his practice gear when it was open to reporters in the afternoon. His agent, Joel Segal, said he’s been in contact with the Vikings, even though the move was not made official Monday with the league. 
“Merely a technical thing,” Segal said in an e-mail. 

About an hour before the news came out, Childress took 12 consecutive questions during his regular news conference about Moss, his effort, and his mindset in response to a rant by Moss following Sunday night’s 28-18 loss to the Patriots. 
Moss, who was fined $25,000 last week for failing to cooper­ate with the media and make himself regularly available for interviews, stepped to the podi­um after the game but announced he wouldn’t take any questions. He repeatedly expressed admiration for coach Bill Belichick and his former team and criticized the Vikings for not taking enough of his game-planning advice. 
Moss had only one catch for 8 yards against the Patriots. In four games for the Vikings, he had 13 receptions for 174 yards and two touchdowns. 
Childress didn’t mention the move when he talked to reporters Monday and said Moss was staying back in the Boston area for a few days to spend time with family. Asked whether he regretted acquiring Moss, the coach said “not at present.” 
Moss, who was traded from Minnesota to Oakland in 2005 after finding his share of trouble and frustrating the organization with his attitude, expressed eagerness to connect with Brett Favre when he arrived and talked about how much he still loved Vikings fans some 5½ years after his departure. 
While his presence opened the field for wide receiver Percy Harvin, who has blossomed into one of the league’s most danger­ous offensive players, Moss never materialized into the deep threat the Vikings sought when they traded for him Oct. 7. His longest catch was a 37-yarder, and he was only targeted twice against the Patriots. 
“I’m definitely down that we lost this game. I didn’t expect we’d lose this game,” Moss said. “I don’t know how many more times I’ll be in New England again. But I leave coach Belichick and those guys with a salute: ‘I love you guys. I miss you. I’m out.’” 
Childress said Monday he did-n’t see Moss’ remarks as “incen­diary.” The closest he came to criticizing him was acknowledg­ing he could’ve caught a pass that fell incomplete in the end zone while the Patriots were called for pass interference. 
“But again, I don’t know,” Childress said. “He was restrict­ed. If they called pass interfer­ence, there had to be some kind of restriction.” 
Asked whether he felt Moss had been playing hard, Childress said, “He’s playing hard when he needs to play hard.” 
Linebacker Ben Leber was one of a handful of players who appeared in the locker room and expressed surprise at the move. But he didn’t sound happy about Moss’ postgame remarks, either. 
“It was just, ‘Wow,’” Leber 

Wide receiver Randy Moss was waived by the Vikings Monday. He was acquired from the Patriots in September for a draft pick. 
said. “Just because it sounded season — leaving the Vikings on like it was unprompted and the hook for at least $1.5 mil-sounded like he wanted to get lion. If Moss is claimed on some stuff off his chest. He cer-waivers, the team that signs him tainly has every right to do that. is responsible for the remainder I don’t think that’s the way to do of his salary. If he clears it.” waivers, then he can sign as a 
Leber said Childress didn’t free agent under new terms. give the team much of an expla-Claiming priority is based on nation. inverse order of the current 
“He didn’t really dive into any standings, so the Patriots — details,” Leber said. “Just said, who lead the league at 6-1 — ‘That’s where we’re going to go would be last. Belichick declined with it.’” comment Monday. 
Moss’s contract called for a “You can’t bait me into it,” he $6.4 million base salary this said. 

NFL 

Fox says Moore will remain Panthers starting quarterback 
Associated Press  turnover margin (minus-10). Despite playing in only four-plus  hauling the roster and shedding payroll to become the NFL’s  enough offensive talent to be com­petitive — even if statistics say  er Steve Smith is struggling. He dropped two passes and had a key  
CHARLOTTE,  N.C.  — Matt  games, Moore has 10 intercep­ youngest team.  otherwise.  fumble in the fourth quarter that  
Moore still has his job and John  tions  and  two  lost  fumbles,  “I don’t think it matters if you  Carolina’s 85 points are 33  led to St. Louis’ clinching touch- 
Fox insists he’s not worried about  accounting for more than half of  have four years or  fewer than the  down.  
his. It’s just that nobody can seem to figure out how to end a dizzying  Carolina’s NFL-high 23 turnovers. But Fox was quick to point out  one year and I don’t care if you’re a play­ “There were some  NFL’s second-lowest scoring  “I have always believed we have enough talent,” Fox said. “It is just  
display of offensive ineptitude that could rewrite the Carolina Panthers record book. Fox spent his Monday press con- miscommunication with the Panthers’ underwhelming receiv­ing unit. “There were some other areas  er or a coach,” Fox said of his contract. “I think in the times now we’re all well  other areas that broke down on some of the interceptions. I  t e a m , Cleveland. Its eight touch­downs are  a matter of executing your assign­ment on a particular play.” The running game, which used to be at the heart of Fox-coached  
ference after the latest failed effort to move the ball replying simply, “yep,” when asked if Moore will remain the starting quarterback  that broke down on some of the interceptions,” Fox said. “I don’t think I can pin it on” Moore. Fox, who has never finished  compensated. “I don’t think I’ve ever really worried about having a job  don’t think I can pin it on Moore.” John Fox  three fewer than second-to­last Miami. The 13 interceptions  teams here, is not immune. As DeAngelo Williams (left foot) sat out against the Rams, Jonathan Stewart managed 30 yards on 14  
ahead of rookie Jimmy Clausen.  worse than 7-9 in his eight previ­ in this league. I’m  Panthers head coach  are  a  league- carries.  
Moore threw three more inter­ ous years in Carolina, also shook  not going to start  high  and  the  With Williams hobbling in the  
ceptions in Sunday’s 20-10 loss to  off questions about his future.  now.”  Panthers  are  locker room Monday and saying  
St. Louis that left the Panthers (1­ Denied a contract extension  While Fox has taken subtle  getting inconsistent performances  only, “I’m doing my best to get  
6) the NFL’s lowest scoring team  over the past two years, Fox is in  shots at the roster-gutting earlier  from rookie receivers and new  back on the field,” the Panthers  
(12.1 points), worst offensive unit  the last year of his deal after the  this season, he disputed Monday  offensive linemen.  have dropped to 28th in the  
(251.4 yards a game) and last in  Panthers spent the offseason over- the claim the Panthers don’t have  Even four-time Pro Bowl receiv­ league in rushing.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m. All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
FOR SALE 
Chess Lessons: USCF and FIDE (International Chess Federation) Master, 2010 Indiana State Chess Champion and coach of 1997/8 K-8 National Championship team Dennis Monokroussos is offering lessons to players of all ages and levels (local and online). Please contact historicchess@comcast.net for rates and information. ——————————————— House for sale on Angela. 2.5K sq ft home. 4BR 3.5BA. Furniture ?, fully redone. $365K 574-232-2211 on web at 610.sbrp.us ——————————————— 

FOR RENT 
River house for rent. 3BR 2BA with river frontage. 10 miles east of ND on Jefferson. Grad student pre­ferred. $1170 574-255-0322 
——————————————— IRISH CORNER APARTMENTS New upscale apts. Less than 1 mi from ND, next to Taco Bell on SR933. Fully furnished apts w/gran­ite countertops, GE appliances w/dishwasher. Each has 2bd/2bath. Mstr. bdrm w/walkin closet. No water/sewer bill. $1000/mo starting. Call JSK Development 574-387­4466. ——————————————— 
AVAILABLE NOW 4BD/2BA HOME FOR RENT. 1.5 miles from ND 574­876-6333 ——————————————— 
PERSONAL 

If you or someone you care about has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit Notre Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu. ——————————————— UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? 
Don't go it alone.Notre Dame has many resources in place to assist you. ——————————————— If you or someone you love needs confidential support or assistance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more information, visit ND's website at: http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. ——————————————— 
Dwight Schrute: In the wild, there is no health care. In the wild, health care is, "Ow, I hurt my leg. I can't run. A lion eats me and I'm dead." Well, I'm not dead. I'm the lion, you're dead. 
——————————————— 
Jan Levinson-Gould: [on phone] Dwight, listen to me very carefully: you are not a manager of anything. Understand? Dwight Schrute: That's not entirely true, because he put me in charge of picking a healthcare plan. Jan Levinson-Gould: Really? Okay, when Michael gets back, you tell him to call me immediately. Dwight Schrute: Call you immedi­ately, good. Hey listen, since I have you on the phone, um, can I fire Jim? Jan Levinson-Gould: No. ——————————————— 

Tuesday, November 2, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 11 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Watt leads Irish in singles matches 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame has come through the fall season with a strong team that returns all of its starters from last year’s squad and has added talented freshmen to the roster. 
“The thing that stands out for us this fall has been our depth,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “We have 10 to 12 players who have demon­strated with quality wins that each is capable of playing and winning at a No. 5 to No. 6 level on a top 25 team. It is difficult to project now what our lineup could be, but at least two of our freshmen have shown that they can win at an elite level. 
“Both [freshmen] Greg Andrews and Billy Pecor have wins that are very impressive so far. Both are very aggres­sive off the ground and made it to the finals of a national championship a year ago at the junior level. Dan Stahl played brilliantly at times against Michigan’s Evan King last week.” 

Junior Casey Watt will once again lead the team at No. 1 singles. Watt advanced to the semifinals of last week’s ITA Midwest Regonial at Notre Dame in a performance that included an upset of Ohio State’s Chase Buchanan in the quarterfinals. 
“Buchanan had won the US National Juniors and the Junior US Open in 2009, so that is a pretty big win,” Bayliss said. “Casey can win big for us high in the lineup if he becomes more adept at handling shorter mid-court balls and finishing better at the net, but this is a challenge for him. He certainly will be challenged here by the level that Stephen Havens has shown this fall.” 
In their final event of the fall season, the Irish will again split the team in two, sending half with Bayliss to the William & Mary Invitational, and the other half with associ­ate head coach Ryan Sachire to the Alabama Invitational in Tuscaloosa, Ala. 
Havens and Pecor will travel to Virginia with Bayliss, accompanied by seniors Dan Stahl and David Anderson, juniors Niall Fitzgerald and Daven Brodess, and sopho­mores Blas Moros and Spencer Talmadge. 
Andrews will travel to Alabama with fellow freshmen Ryan Bandy and Matt Dooley, along with seniors Matt Johnson, Bryan Kelly, Sean Tan and Tyler Davis and jun­ior Sam Keeton. 
The Irish will look to have strong showings in both events before they return to Notre Dame to prepare for their spring season opener at William & Mary on Jan. 22. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 
MLB 

Giants win World 
Series in game fve 

Associated Press 
ARLINGTON, Texas — Edgar Renteria saves his most mem­orable moments for the World Series. 
After getting the hit that won the 1997 title for Florida and making the final out for St. Louis in Boston’s 2004 win, he pushed the Giants to their first championship in 56 years. 
Renteria’s three-run homer off Cliff Lee in the seventh inning stunned the Texas Rangers and their fans, send­ing San Francisco to a 3-1 vic­tory Monday night in Game 5. His unexpected offense from the No. 8 spot in the batting order earned him World Series MVP honors. 
Not bad for a guy who began the postseason on the bench. 
“It was a tough year for me,” Renteria said. “I told myself to keep working hard and keep in shape because something is going to be good this year.” 
A five-time All-Star who has declined dramatically the past three seasons, Renteria hit .412 (7 for 17) with six RBIs in the Series. He had all of three homers and 22 RBIs during an injury-filled regular season that landed the shortstop on the disabled list three times and prompted him to openly ponder retirement. 
“I don’t know. I’m going to think about it and see what happens,” he said Monday night. 
But he’s used to the big stage — Renteria is one of only two players to get a World Series-ending hit and hit into a World Series-ending out, according to STATS LLC. The other was Goose Goslin, who struck out for Washington against Pittsburgh in 1925, then singled for Detroit against the Chicago Cubs in 1935. 
In 1997, Renteria’s 11th­inning single up the middle off Cleveland’s Charles Nagy won the title for the Florida Marlins, only the fourth Game 7 in World Series history to stretch into extra innings. 
Seven years later, his come-backer to Keith Foulke fin­ished Boston’s four-game sweep of St. Louis and gave the Red Sox their first title since 1918. He was the one who hit the ball that Doug Mientkiewicz made famous. 


page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, November 2, 2010 
Martin 
continued from page 16 
got going there and got more comfortable,” he said. “[The first shot] was nice. I just stepped into it, and knocked it down. I was wide open so I had to shoot it.” 
Atkins, a freshman from Columbia, Md., finished the night with eight points on two-for-two shooting, along with one assist. 
Before the game, the only people who had really seen Martin and Atkins in action were the players passing them the ball. 
“It was [a long time coming], but it was fun,” said Martin, who sat out the 2008-09 season after transferring from Purdue and then missed last season due to a torn ACL. “I’m just happy I got out there and played with [my teammates] rather than against them for once.” 
Martin, still sporting a knee brace to protect his surgically-repaired knee, said he entered Monday’s contest with relatively low goals, especially when com­pared to his 15 points. 
“Individually, I was just happy to get into the game,” he said. “That’s all I wanted to do, to play for a minute and then I would have been happy. That was where my goals kind of stopped.” 
Instead, Martin logged 26 minutes, while Atkins notched 21 in his first action at the col­lege level. 
“I would say the best thing is I didn’t miss a shot. two-for-two. Everything was good,” Atkins said. “Everybody else got involved. Scott [Martin] being back is a big part.” 
Atkins came off the bench with 13:30 left in the first half, extending his wait by six and a half more minutes. 
“I was excited all day to get out there. It felt good to finally get out there with everybody,” he said. “After pre-game shootaround, I felt like [the game] was right there, but we had to wait another three or four hours. It’s good to get the first one out of the way.” 
Preventing Atkins from start­ing alongside Martin was the newly-named quartet of Irish captains: Abromaitis and sen­iors Tyrone Nash, Carleton Scott and Ben Hansbrough. In 27 minutes, Nash, a forward, tal­lied nine points and eight rebounds, while Scott added 13 points and seven rebounds. Hansbrough contributed 14 points. 
Despite the balanced offensive attack, the captains said the best aspect of Notre Dame’s game was its defense, which led to a quick start and a 24-8 lead after less than nine minutes had passed. 
“We did well defensively,” Scott said. “We came out of the gate, jumped on them early and didn’t let up. … They are a great team. They control the ball well. Coach is going to say we have to get out there and defend shoot­ers, and that is what we did.” 
Notre Dame held the Knights to 33.3 percent shooting on the game, including 27.6 percent in the second half. Meanwhile, the Irish ended the game at 59.2 percent shooting from the field, including 9-of-16 on three-pointers. 
Notre Dame will play its sec­ond and final exhibition game Saturday against Catholic University from Washington, D.C., at 7 p.m. at the Purcell Pavilion. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
PAT COVENEY/The Observer 

Senior guard Scott Martin drives to the basket against Marian Monday night. Notre Dame won 85-52. 
Par 
continued from page 16 
teams got two rounds in on the final day. Park shot two rounds of 74 in the event, which she was able to improve upon with a Sunday total of 73 and a 72 on Monday. 
Freshman Kristina Nhim, who has also had a standout first season with the Irish, narrowly trails Zhang and Park with a 147 total from her round one score of 75 and round two 72. Nhim is currently tied for 15th. Junior Becca Huffer, who led Notre Dame last week­end at the Landfall Tradition in Wilmington, N.C., stands in fourth for the team. Her first round total was a team-high 79, but she managed to come back with a 72 for an over­all 151. Currently, she is tied for 33rd after being in 54th after the first round. 
Closing out the Irish scor­ing is junior Katie Allare whose 154 total ties her for 50th, a five spot drop from her day one 45th place fin­ish. She finished Sunday with a round of 78, but was able to come back with a 76 on Monday. 
Tournament play will con­tinue tomorrow morning with the third and final round of the tournament. Tee times begin at 8:30 a.m. at the Briggs Ranch Golf Course in San Antonio, Texas. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
Reunion 
continued from page 16 

games because of an American boycott instituted by President Jimmy Carter during the height of the Cold War. 
Returning to the training grounds where so much hap­pened with Brown and her teammates made the recogni­tion and the reunion even more special. 
“It’s a lot of fun, any time I can get together with my team­mates from the 1980 Olympic team, we always have a good time,” Brown said. “It was probably a little extra special just being in Colorado Springs because that’s where we trained and where we went through so much; [it was] where we trained and lived and spent so much time there. It was nice to be back and it was really nice to be recognized by the city.” 
Not only was the weekend special but it was also an honor for Brown and her teammates to be reminded of how much the city cared for them and had taken them under its wings. The 1980 Olympic team was the first group to train in Colorado Springs, and none of the players had any connections to the city or were from the state of Colorado. It was all an unknown for them, but the team quickly gained local sup­port after they arrived. 
“We didn’t know how it was going to be,” Brown said. “None of us had friends or family or anything there, and it was real­ly special the way the city of Colorado Springs just really adopted us. From the minute we were there, whenever we would play there, we would play to sell-out crowds. A lot of people in the community just really took an active interest. They would have us over for home-cooked meals, just took us in, as if we were from there and had lived there all along.” 
Returning to her old training grounds with her teammates reminded Brown of the bonds that had been formed and that continue to play a role in her life today. 
“We stay in touch quite a bit. Obviously not with every single person on the team but the bonds that we formed when we played together and for the amount of time we played together are still very strong and these are still my best friends,” she said. 
Although they never compet­ed on the Olympic stage, a “bit­tersweet thing” for Brown, she said her team has been recog­nized by a number of organiza­tions for their role in putting USA Volleyball on the map. 
“It’s a great honor to be rec­ognized and always a good time when we can get together with our teammates because, like I said, there’s such a close bond and because we are such good friends, so it was pretty special to come together and be able to celebrate something like that,” Brown said. “And 30 years after, it’s kind of crazy to think of that, but it was 30 years ago and it’s kind of special to know that those bonds are as strong as ever.” 
When asked if it felt like 30 years had passed by since she and her teammates were train­ing in Colorado Springs, Brown laughed and said, “No, not at all. That seems crazy.” 
None of the 1980 Olympic coaching staff were able to attend the event because of cur­rent coaching duties and sched­uling. The team’s head coach, Dr. Arie Selinger, is currently coaching the Israeli National Team, while the two assistant coaches are coaching in Japan and at St. John’s University. Four of Brown’s teammates have also gone on to become college head coaches. 

The bonds Brown forged with her teammates that continue to play an active role in her life were an important part of her experience as a player, and an important aspect that she encourages the Irish players she coaches to consider. 
“I have shared with them and I have told them that it’s possi­ble that their teammates will turn out to be the best friends that they’ll have in life, and it’s just a matter or cultivating friendships and relationships,” Brown said. “I’m sure that for the Notre Dame players, for the 20 years that I’ve been able to coach, I know that some of them, for a fact, are still best friends with their teammates.” 
While Brown and her team­mates were together during such a tumultuous time where they didn’t know what their Olympic fate would be, she said that she tries to pass on the importance of her daily experi­ences with her teammates to her players. 
“There’s something about the things you go through as a teammate, and all the practices and hard work, just the experi­ences that you have that create a special bond,” she said. “I have shared with them that if they have the opportunity to develop the friendship like I have with my teammates, it makes it all worthwhile for sure.” 
Brown and the Irish are cur­rently 15-9 overall and 8-3 in the Big East in her 20th season at Notre Dame. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 


Tuesday, November 2, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
Phoxes 
continued from page 16 
pleased with the season the Finest had. 
“This year was lots of fun. We peaked at the right time. I’m proud of our seniors,” Ritt said. 
The Phoxes will battle No. 1 Howard next Sunday for the right to go to the Stadium. 
“We lost to Howard in the regular season,” Tate said. “We know we’ve got our work cut out for us, but we’ve got a fair chance if we play as well [as we did today]. It will be a good game.” 
Howard 7, Welsh Family 6 
Without its starting quarter­back, No. 1 Howard made up for it with a pair of sisters and ended any hopes of a No. 8 Welsh Family upset, defeat­ing the Whirlwind in a close-fought game. 
The Ducks were missing senior captain and starting quarterback Kayla Bishop, so sisters Kaitlin and Clare Robinson filled in, with fresh­man Clare taking over pass­ing duties in the first half and senior Kaitlin replacing her for the second half. 
Though Howard did not have its usual offensive fire­power, the Ducks ’ timely interceptions held down the Whirlwind passing attack. Kaitlin Robinson, who also played middle linebacker, had two interceptions in the first half, both of which occurred with Welsh Family just yards from a touchdown. She returned her second intercep­tion for a touchdown to give Howard the lead. 
The Whirlwind fought back with a successful drive late in the first half. Junior wide receiver Charlotte Seasly caught a pass from sopho­more quarterback Vicky son juggernaut No. 3 Moreno in the end zone, but Cavanaugh with stout defen-Welsh Family was unable to sive play and creativity on convert the extra point. offense in a victory. 

Both offensive units were Both teams appeared rusty stymied in the second half, at the outset as the two sides which featured three punts, traded punts for the greater an interception and two part of the first half. The turnovers on downs. The Chaos (4-1) scored first on a interception came courtesy of touchdown pass from junior Clare Robinson, who also quarterback Becca Cink to served as safety and rusher. junior running back Brittni 
On game’s final drive, Welsh Alexander. The Shamrocks (3­Family appeared to complete 2) would answer with a a long pass that would have touchdown pass from junior put the Whirlwind within Lauren Miller to sophomore scoring range, but the play Emily Golden as time expired was called back due to a to end the first half. holding penalty. Welsh McGlinn would take the Family was unable to make a lead with its second score first down in midway through the next three the second half, plays, and the when Miller and clock expired Golden connect-as the “The game was really ed for their sec-Howard close. Welsh Fam came ond touchdown 
offense took on the day. The 
out strong but our
the field. Shamrocks fol­“The game defense held up.” lowed up their was really touchdown with close,” Kaitlin an interception 
Kaitlin Robinson 
Robinson by senior defen-
Howard Senior 
said. “Welsh sive back Caitlin Fam came out Carlin, her first strong but our of two. Carlin defense held was a standout up and that’s why we were for a McGlinn defense that able to win the game. We picked off four passes on the made some good intercep -day, including one by junior tions and good stops.” wide receiver/defensive back 
“The game started off pretty Kate Tucker on a Cavanaugh slow, but we got to see that Hail Mary as time expired. when our offense is more “We played to our strengths lackluster than usual our on offense,” Carlin said. “We defense can really step it up were able to capitalize on the and give us a big win,” senior turnovers that the defense coach Fritz Schoenhut added. was able to force.” 
With the victory, Howard Offensively, the Shamrocks will play No. 4 Pangborn in showed some imagination next Sunday’s semifinals. with their play calling, “We’re glad we’re still in it repeatedly using the hook-and we’re looking to repeat and-ladder and moving the our title,” Kaitlin Robinson quarterback all over the field. said. McGlinn’s impressive per ­formance was countered by a McGlinn 13, Cavanaugh 6 disappointing showing from In a shocking upset, No. 6 the Chaos, who entered the McGlinn toppled regular-sea-game with an undefeated 


record. 

“We just didn’t have the answers,” Cavanaugh senior wide receiver Holly Hinz said. “We knew they were a good team, we knew they had a powerful offense. Just all around our team didn’t have a great day.” 
The Shamrocks realize how important their first round victory is, as they now have the confidence to make a deep playoff run. 
“I think when you are ever the underdog and can pull off the upset,” Carlin said, “you just have to ride the wave of having momentum.” 
As the Cavanaugh football season ends earlier than the players would have hoped, McGlinn gets set to enter the second round of the playoffs with momentum to carry it forward. 
Pasquerilla West 19, Lewis 18 (OT) 
No. 7 Lewis was fired up on Sunday and nearly pulled off a huge upset against No. 2 Pasquerilla West in its over­time loss to the Purple Weasels. 
The Chicks made it clear they were going to give Pasquerilla West a challenge from the opening whistle. The Lewis defense danced onto the field and was able to hold the explosive Purple Weasel offense on a goal line stand. The Lewis offense was unable to take advantage of the turnover, however, and after three plays punted the ball back to the Purple Weasels. With a second opportunity, Pasquerilla West maneuvered its speed option offense down the field and senior quarter­back Simone Bigi was able to sneak in for the score. 
On the following Lewis pos­session, sophomore quarter­back Connaught Blood took over the field. She ripped off multiple long runs shaking off Purple Weasel defenders left and right. She capped off the drive with a 40-yard bomb, setting up the Chicks on the one-yard line, which allowed them to score a touchdown on the following play. 
Not to be outdone, Bigi marched her squad down the field and put the Purple Weasels back on top. After the Pasquerilla West touch­down, Lewis took over with a minute left in the half. Blood marched her team down the field and scored on a one yard run with only seconds left in the half. 
Both defenses locked down in the second half. Pasquerilla West’s defense broke up multiple pass attempts and Lewis’s defen­sive line, led by senior cap­tain Sarah Ceponis, sacked Bigi for multiple losses. The teams traded the ball back and forth until regulation expired. 
Entering overtime, Pasquerilla West scored on an end around reverse. After converting the extra point, Pasquerilla Westgave Lewis the ball back. The Ducks punched in a touchdown almost immediately, but could not convert the extra point, and the Purple Weasels emerged with a one point vic­tory. 
Despite the loss, Ceponis was proud of her team. 
“We played real flag football 
out there today,” Ceponis said. “We wouldn’t want to go out any other way.” 
Pasquerilla West senior 
captain Libby Koerbel  was  
n o t  a s  e x c i t e d  a b o u t  h e r  
squad’s effort.  

“The defense started out a little slow,” Koerbel said. “We felt good in practice this week, though, and we’re excited to go up against McGlinn on Sunday.” 
Pasquerilla West will face McGlinn in the semifinals on Sunday. 
Contact Laura Coletti at lcoletti@nd.edu, Victoria Jacobsen at vjacobse@nd.edu, Joseph Monardo at jmonardo@nd.edu and David Kenney at dkenney1@nd.edu 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 2, 2010 
improvements to be made before that game, however, 
McMahon 

Dillon seemed extremely con­
fident. 
continued from page 16 

“Nothing,” Salvi said. it in any way. I know individu-“We’re perfect.” als are certainly dealing with The Big Red will take on it.” Siegfried in the semifinals 
Before the game, Fisher Sunday. said a prayer as a team in memory of Sullivan. Siegfried 28, Stanford 3 
From the Si egf ried outset the Big began the Red’s defense defense of its came out with interhall 
intensity, forc-championship 
“Not many teams have
ing a fumble in style within the the luxury of being able Sunday, as the 
first few min-to run and pass.” No. 5 utes that Ramblers allowed the rolled past No. 
Jordan Smith
offense to take 4 Stanford. 
o v e r. Dillon Senior Led by sen-Throughout ior quarter ­the game the back Matt Big Red were Meinert’s two all over the touchdowns — field, leading to two intercep-one passing, one rushing — tions and 14 more incomple-and sophomore running back tions from Fisher junior quar-David Whitmore’s 75 rushing terback Pat Hertenstein. yards on 5 carries, the “Our [defensive] strategy Siegfried (4-1) offense proved was to come out, hit hard, it was just as good as its and play fast and intense,” vaunted defense. Dillon senior captain Jordan “The offensive line blocked Smith said. “Our defense was really well today. I think this perfect today.” was their first really complete Despite a strong effort from game,” Meinert said. “They Fisher on the defensive side stayed on their blocks and of the ball, Dillon was relent-really took it to them today.” less on offense. The Green The offense turned in their Wave came up with a few big best performance this season, stops, highlighted by two in amassing 221 total yards and the red zone in the second scoring a season -high 28 half, and a blocked extra points. point. In the end, they were In an opening drive that simply worn out by Dillon’s chewed up the entire first dual-threat offense featuring quarter, Siegfried marched 65 sophomore running back yards on 14 plays, capped by Terry Howard and the passing sophomore running back duo of freshman quarterback Bryce Burton’s 4-yard touch-Kevin Fink and sophomore down plunge. Burton finished receiver Will Salvi. the game with 37 rushing “Not many teams have the yards on 9 carries. luxury of being able to run The Ramblers defense was and pass,” Smith said. “Not a determined to start strong as lot of kid
s play quarterback well. After allowing a couple like that, so it’s great having of long completions by [Fink].” Stanford senior quarterback Fink credits the success of Tony Rizzo, Siegfried forced Dillon’s passing game to his Rizzo out of the pocket and on-field chemistry with Salvi intercepted an errant pass. as well as his other receivers. On the second play of the “[Salvi and I] work well ensuing drive, Whitmore fol-together,” Fink said. “We have lowed a block by senior left been working hard and get-tackle Michael McDonnell and ting our timing down and sprinted 55 yards down the that’s really paid off. I’m very sideline for a Siegfried score, comfortable throwing to him. giving the Ramblers a 14 ­We’re lucky to have a great point lead. core of receivers.” The Griffins (3-2) showed Dillon’s second drive of the signs of life late in the first contest ended when Howard half, with a 31-yard field goal dove into the end zone for the that cut Siegfried’s lead to 11. score, while its third conclud-The Ramblers took complete ed with a long catch and run control of the game in the on a pass from Fink to Salvi second half, however, as their for a touchdown. Fisher man-defense allowed just 17 total aged to hold Dillon out of the yards in the second half and end zone after the Big Red’s repeatedly frustrated Rizzo, second score until Fink who finished the day 14 for hooked up with sophomore 27 with 141 yards and 2 tight end Ben Ferry for a interceptions. touchdown on their final “[Stanford] threw a lot. Our drive. secondary gave up some big The Big Red now look ahead plays but kept them out of the 

to their next opponent, end zone,” Meinert said. Siegfried. When asked about “That was really what we needed to do.” 
The lone bright spot on the Griffins offense was junior wide receiver Griffin Naylor, who hauled in six passes for 56 yards. 
Siegfried will continue its title defense against No. 1 Dillon in the semifinals. 
“We’ll be ready,” Meinert said. “Dillon’s good but we’ll definitely be ready.” 
Alumni 18, Carroll 6 

In Sunday afternoon’s quar­terfinal matchup between No. 3 Alumni and No. 6 Carroll, the Dawgs’ offense could have easily been mistaken for Navy’s against Notre Dame, as they ran the triple option to near perfection in their 18-7 win over the Vermin. 
The Dawgs (4 -1) didn ’t attempt a single pass and jun­ior captain and fullback Dan Dansdill led the charge with 24 carries for 127 yards and a touchdown. 
The Dawgs’ ball -control offense limited the pass heavy Vermin (3-2) offense to just five possessions, two of which occurred at the end of the first and second halves. 
The Alumni offensive line was nearly impenetrable in its 213-yard rush­ing perform ­ance. 
“The offensive said the Dawg’s defense adjusted to Carroll’s offensive attack. 

“We tried to limit them to short passes and didn’t want any big plays,” he said. 
While Carroll’s surprising season ended in a disappoint­ment, Carroll sophomore cap­tain Keith Marrero remained 
upbeat 
about the 
future. 

“We’re 
line was stellar “We tried to limit them returning today,” Dansdill our entire 
to short passes and
said. “The cred-squad next it definitely didn’t want any big season,” goes to them.” plays.” Marrero 
The Vermin said. “You’ll appeared hear from 
Dan Dansdill
poised to pull us.” 
off 
the upset Alumni Junior Alumni when they took will square an early 7-0 off against lead. After Sorin in the missing a field semifinals goal on the opening drive, the on Sunday with a trip to the Vermin regained possession championship game at Notre 

on 
an Alumni fumble. Two Dame Stadium on the line. plays later, freshman quarter­back Jake Gardner completed Sorin 14, Morrissey 0 a 40-yard screen pass to jun-The postseason battle ior running back Nick between Sorin and Morrissey Tammerine for a touchdown. showcased an exceptional Gardner completed 12 of 18 Otters defense, as the No. 2 passes for 155 yards on the seed shut out the young day. Manor attack. 


Alumni would cut the lead Sorin’s (4-1) defense was to one at the end of the first aided by two interceptions on half after a touchdown on a the day, including one that five-yard quarterback sneak immediately followed an from freshman quarterback Otters touchdown. Will Cronin, but the Dawgs “I just dropped back in cov­missed the extra point. erage and caught it. He put it 
The game was decided in up, and I caught it,” sopho­the third quarter when more cornerback Ted Spinelli Alumni, trailing 7-6, drove 65 said. yards on the opening posses-Spinelli led the Otters’ sion of the second half and offense as well, connecting on capped off the drive with a first-half touchdown passes one-yard quarterback sneak with seniors Jon Beckerle and for a touchdown. Despite Michael Browder. missing the two-point conver-Morrissey (2-3) freshman sion, Alumni’s 11 -minute defensive back Isaac Evans drive demoralized the Vermin had an interception in the defense. A three-yard touch-second half, as Morrissey’s down run in the fourth quar-defense shut out the Otters in ter by Dansdill sealed the win the second half of play. The for Alumni. Morrissey offense, however, 
In the second half, Dansdill never quite found the answer to their lack of production this season. 

“If you look at our season, we could never really get any­thing going on offense,” soph­
omore lineman Sean Baur said. “We’ve had three touch­downs this season, maybe. We don’t take ourselves seriously, maybe not seriously enough.” 
Despite the loss, Morrissey will return many experienced players next season. 
“We have literally everybody from this year coming back next year, so we’re looking forward to that,” Baur said. 
Sorin senior defensive back Matt Gring ended Morrissey’s chances with his third inter­ception in the past three games. 
“Our defense stepped up big, led by our senior defen­sive backs. I feel like our defense can help us make it to the championship. Three interceptions says something good,” Gring said. “Happy Halloween.” 
As far as preparation for next weekend, the Otters will be taking it easy. 
“We’re taking the week off,” sophomore athlete Ryan Robinson said. “We’re having a bye week. We’re over ­worked, and we’ve got injuries, so hopefully this week will bring rest and relaxation.” 
The Otters have only one goal, and that is to bring a title to Sorin. 
“We’ve made a lot of improvements this year, and a lot of that’s due to our unique ability to practice using swim­ming pools and mouse traps,” Spinelli said. “We want to win. We want to go to the Stadium and win.” 
The Otters will face Alumni on Sunday. 
Contact Kelsey Manning at kmannin3@nd.edu, Matthew DeFranks at mdefrank@nd.edu, Matt Unger at munger3@nd.edu and Megan Golden at mgolde01@saintmarys.edu 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 

Eighth-seeded Belles to play No. 1 Hope in tournament 
By KATHARINE MACK 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary ’s will be up against the odds tonight when it takes on Hope in the MIAA tournament. 
The Belles (5-20) will enter the nine-team tournament as the No. 8 seed and will look for a major upset against top -seeded Hope (23 -4), which ranks 8th nationally, in their opening match of the double round-robin tourna­ment. 

The Belles know exactly what they’re up against with the Flying Dutch, whom they have faced twice this season. Both matches resulted in a 3­0 Saint Mary’s losses. 
“We were just [at Hope] on Saturday so our team knows what to expect,” Belles head coach Toni Kuschel said. 
Saint Mary’s must be more consistent with hitting, as the last two matchups between the teams resulted in a Belles attack percentage of .078 on Oct. 5 and a .033 attack per­centage on Saturday. 
“We will need to play bet­ter. We need to be consistent with the ball and play in sys­tem,” Kuschel said. 
The Belles must also try to contain the potent Hope 
offense. The Flying Dutch posted a .449 attack percent­age in their Oct. 5 match and increased their attack per­centage to .453 on Saturday. 
“We will need to serve tough against a great offense. We will also need to be more focused on service receiving and defense,” said Kuschel. 
The match begins at 7 p.m. at Hope. 
Contact Katharine Mack at 
kmack1@nd.edu 

Tuesday, November 2, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $100 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $55 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Tuesday, November 2, 2010 page 16 
MEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Dillon shuts out Fisher 
Fisher loses to Dillon, declines game change 
By KELSEY MANNING, 
MATTHEW DEFRANKS, 
MATT UNGER and MEGAN 
GOLDEN 
Sports Writers 
Following Wednesday’s death of Notre Dame junior Declan Sullivan, a Fisher res­ident, RecSports contacted Fisher with an offer to post­pone its first-round playoff game against No. 1 seed Dillon. 
Without hesitation, Fisher rector Fr. Rob Moss and sen­ior captain Michael McMahon declined the offer. 
“We definitely appreciated the offer,” McMahon said. “That was very kind of them. While we are all dealing with the tragedy, we have to roll on with what we are doing. 

“I don’t want to downplay SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer 
Fisher junior Pat Hertenstein throws a pass in Fisher’s game agaist Dillon on Sunday. The Big Red see McMAHON/page 14 beat the Green Wave 20-0. 

ND VOLLEYBALL 
Brown and teammates meet again 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Thirty years may be a long time ago for most people, but when Irish coach Debbie Brown gets back together with her teammates from the 1980 Olympic team, it doesn’t feel like a day has passed. 
Brown and six other living players from that Olympic team 
— 
a team that never had the chance to compete for the gold medal they were favored to win 

— 
were honored last Wednesday in Colorado Springs, the city they trained in and lived in, when they were inducted into the Colorado Springs Sports Hall of Fame. 


The team was favored to win the gold medal, but they never competed in those Moscow 
see REUNION/page 12 


WOMEN’S INTERHALL FOOTBALL 
Pangborn comes from behind to take Farley in overtime 
force a tie at the end of regu-short pass through the middle it in for a touchdown. found Veselik in the left cor-
By LAURA COLETTI, 

lation and scored a touch-in the end zone. Farley’s run-The Phoxes tied the game in ner of the end zone for the
VICTORIA JACOBSEN, 

down in the overtime period ning game was effective in the second half on special deciding points.
JOSEPH MONARDO and 

to win the game 25-19. moving the ball down the teams when they returned a “Both freshmen came up
DAVID KENNEY 

“This was a give-and-take field to gain better position. Farley punt to the house for a huge today,” Tate said. “Mary
Sports Writers 

game, ” Pangborn senior Vitale scored again on a simi-touchdown. After exchanging Kate kept her cool and played quarterback Gabby Tate said. lar series to make the score touchdowns, the teams great. I’m expecting good 
No. 4 Pangborn showed just “It was one of the greatest 13-0. remained tied at the end of things from her in the how badly it wanted to reach flag football games I’ve ever Pangborn answered just regulation. Pangborn’s tena-future.” Notre Dame Stadium in the played in. Either team could before halftime with a touch-cious defense held the Finest Farley’s loss was not for first round of playoffs against have won.” down of its own. Freshman scoreless in overtime. When lack of effort, and senior No. 5 Farley on Sunday. After The Finest (3 -2) took an receiver Mary Kate Veselik given their chance, the coach Kevin Ritt was still Pangborn fell behind early, early lead when junior receiv-received a long pass on the Phoxes made the most of the Phoxes (4-1) recovered to er Kaitlyn Vitale received a right side of the field and ran their opportunity when Tate see PHOXES/page 13 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Notre Dame off to a good start 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
Irish fans have waited two years to watch senior guard Scott Martin take the court, and they have waited months to see how freshman guard Eric Atkins would do leading the offense. 
As Notre Dame defeated Marian 85-52 in an exhibition game Monday, Martin tied with fourth-year forward Tim Abromaitis as the leading scorers in the contest with 15 points apiece. He went six-for-10 from the field, including three-for-five from 3-point range, and hit his first shot of his Notre Dame career. 
“I was a little nervous at the start, a couple butterflies, but I 
see MARTIN/page 12 


ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish in fifth despite improved strokes 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 

After commencing the 2010 Alamo Invitational with a first-round score of 298 on Sunday and a fifth-place standing, the Irish have cut nine strokes off their second -round team score but remain in fifth place. Monday’s compiled score of 289 puts Notre Dame at 587 overall as it heads into the today’s third and final round. 
Texas Christian University leads the tournament with a two-day total of 575, fol­lowed by Tulane in second with 581 and Texas A&M and Colorado tied for third with a 36-hole stroke total of 582. 
Freshman Nicole Zhang and senior So-Hyun Park lead the Irish with rounds of 145, tying them for ninth among the 75-player field. Rookie sensation Zhang, who entered the tournament as Notre Dame’s No. 2 seed, shot a 72 on Day 1 and fol­lowed it with a 73 on Monday. Her Day 1 score was an even-par total and landed her in third, a posi­tion now held by players who shot a 143. Last sea­son, the event was short­ened due to rain, but the 
see PAR/page 12 




