the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Future of Library hangs in limbo 
Ohmer to take interim role after director steps down; petition calls for improvements 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editor 
The Hesburgh Library may boast a nationally rec­
ognized image on its 
f a c a d e ,  b u t  t h e  f u t u r e  o f  
the Library itself is  not  as  
clearly established.  

After a year of renovation talk, a petition calling for the Library’s improvement and the recent stepping down of its director, the Library hangs in a state of limbo. 
But Assistant Provost Susan Ohmer, who was recently named interim director of the Hesburgh Libraries, said she is ready to fill the gap. 
“I’m really excited about it. It’s a great opportunity,” Ohmer said. “I’m happy to serve as long as needed.” 
Strategic plan 
Ohmer said a major goal is formulating a strategic plan for the future direction 
of the Library. The University is currently in the planning stages for the strategic plan, but nothing has been written yet, she said. 
Ohmer will also chair the committee for the strategic plan, which she hopes will be finished next spring. 
see LIBRARY/page 4 




CommUniversity Day spurs service 
In addition to on-and off-campus projects, a chil ­dren’s festival for all com­munity families will take place on Irish Green, as well as hourly campus walking tours. The day of service will culminate with a community picnic at the Robinson Community Learning Center. 
“This is an opportunity for everyone from Notre Dame and the surrounding community to get together to interact,” junior Rachel Roseberry, co-director of the event and outgoing Social Concerns chair, said. 
see SERVICE/page 6 
Washington chosen as top of class for 2010 
By KATIE PERALTA 
Assistant News Editor 
Notre Dame announced Katie Washington of Gary, Ind., as the valedictorian of the graduating class of 2010 Wednesday. 
Having earned a 4.0 GPA in biological sciences with a minor in Cath oli c Social Teaching, Washington said she 
owes the success she’s had to the support she’s gotten from loved ones. 
“By no means do I feel like I’ve done this on my own,” she said. “I’m humbled and grateful to have had this experience at Notre Dame.” 
Washington, who received the announcement Tuesday evening, said she is still pro­cessing the news. 
“I’m still trying to distill my feelings and get a grasp on what it really means,” she said. “It’s very surreal.” 
During her time on cam­pus, Washington was the 

see STUDENT/page 4 




College increases tuitionby4.76percent 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
In order to maintain the quality of the academic and co -curricular programs at Saint Mary ’s College, the Board of Trustees have authorized an increase in tuition for the 2010-11 aca­demic year, Richard Speller, vice president for Finance and Administration said. 
The percent of increase for the 2010 -11 academic year will be 4.76 percent, raising tuition costs from $28,980 to 30,360. Additionally, Speller said fees will increase 3.77 percent, from $636 to $660. Students can also expect a 
2.96 percent increase in room and board, making an average double room price rise from $9,206 to $9,480. 
Speller said the projected increase is smaller than in previous years. 
“Tuition increases for the four previous years were five percent each year, ” Speller said. 
Speller said the increases would be beneficial to enhance programs that directly affect students. 
In the previous year, the 
see TUITION/page 6 


Constructiontoclosecampusroads 

New hockey arena, other projects expected to be finished on time 
By AMANDA GRAY 
Assistant News Editor 
Although new construction projects — such as a new arena for the hockey team 
— are expected to close some roads around campus, Vice President of Business Operations James Lyphout said he expects the con ­struction will proceed smoothly. 
Roads around the Joyce Center, including Holy Cross Drive, will be closed until Sept. 1 for the construction of the new ice arena. 
“We have worked with Barton Malow, the construc­
see BUILDING/page 6 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Juniors named Truman Scholars page 3  Roots concert preview page 14  Women’s lacrosse preview page 28  Viewpoint page 12 

By KRISTEN DURBIN 
News Writer 
From painting houses and fire hydrants to working at the Center for the Homeless, over 700 stu ­dents will participate in 35 different service projects benefiting the South Bend community for Saturday’s second annual CommUniversity Day. 
A number of these proj­ects are sponsored by stu­dent groups and campus offices, such as Circle K, GreeND, the Psychology Club and the Center for Social Concerns. 

page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Friday, April 9, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Survival of the frosh 
As Ferris Bueller once so famously remarked, “Life moves pretty fast. If you don’t stop and look around every once in a while, you could miss it.” 
In just about a month, I will be Emily Schrank returning home to the great state News Wire 
of South 
Editor 

Carolina for the summer and will have successfully (knock on wood!) survived my first year of college. For me, that is pretty hard to believe. 
In the midst of the endless papers and countless tests, it may seem like the days don’t go by fast enough. But before we know it, the days eventually turn into years and we’ll be out in “the real world,” the comforts of our homes under the Dome far behind us. 
I was reminded of that fact this past weekend, when my family came to visit me for Easter. 
As we sat and visited with my dad’s former Howard Hall mate (yes, Howard Hall was once a men’s dorm), they began to dis­cuss their approaching 30 -year reunion this summer. Both my dad and his friend could not believe that so much time had passed since they themselves had been Notre Dame students, but still said that it “felt just like yes­terday.” 
As much as it pains me to say, I know that, all too soon, my friends and I will be in the same situation: reminiscing and longing for the “good old days” of Notre Dame. 
Time is certainly a tricky thing and it is a concept that has always been puzzling to me. Some moments in life seem to drag on, while others happen in the blink of an eye. 
As my father ’s conversation with his old friend suggested, events that may have occurred years ago, often feel as if they happened just yesterday. Meanwhile, things we may have experienced in the not so distant past, seem to have taken place ages ago. 
Although the great mysteries of time might never be made clear to us, one thing is for certain. We must take advantage of whatever time we are given and learn to recognize the beauty of living “in the moment.” 
Despite the day -to -day chal ­lenges we may come across, it is important to keep it all in per ­spective. I myself am often guilty of letting the stress of classes and my ever-growing to-do list get me down. 
But, as the academic year winds down and the summer quickly approaches, let’s all try to appre­ciate that simple walk across South quad or a meal shared with friends in North Dining Hall. We don ’t know just how soon we maybe longing for that time again. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD HAVE A HOLLYWOOD BEST FRIEND, WHO WOULD IT BE? 






Jennifer Prather  Kelly Clune  Claire Priestley  Katie Hester  Maria Sheehan  Allison Kincaid  
freshman McCandless  freshman McCandless  freshman McCandless  freshman McCandless  freshman McCandless  freshman McCandless  
“Taylor Swift because I love her and her little brother is coming to Notre Dame next year!”  “All 19 of the Duggar children.”  “Kim Kardashian because she rolls with some incredibly attractive pro athletes.”  “Ashton Kutcher because he’s always funny and easy on the eyes.”  “Will Ferrell because I’ve always wanted to know what his hair felt like.”  “Jennifer Aniston. Who wouldn’t want to be her friend?”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

EILEEN VEIHMEYER /The Observer Students receive henna tattoos in the Saint Mary’s College Student Center Thursday for SMC Tostal. The opening of the event featured activities and free­bies including t-shirts, a photo booth and food vendors. 
OFFBEAT 
Judge fired over teen arrest for overdue DVD 
LITTLETON, Colo. — A longtime Colorado judge has been fired after issu­ing an arrest warrant for a teenager over an over­due library DVD. 
Municipal Judge James Kimmel issued the war­rant after 19 -year-old Aaron Henson failed to show up in court Jan. 14 over the overdue DVD, “House of Flying Daggers.” On Jan. 25, police stoped the teen for speeding and held him for nearly eight hours after discovering the warrant. 
Henson had moved and didn't received the sum­mons to court. The teen said he had packed the DVD in a box, and returned it about a week before Henson issued the warrant. The library notified the judge the DVD was back. 
Workers strike over ban on drinking at work 
COPENHAGEN — A few hundred warehouse workers and drivers at Danish brewer Carlsberg halted work for a second day on Thursday to protest a company deci­sion to limit beer drinking at work to lunch breaks. 
The strike in Denmark followed the company's April 1 decision to intro­duce new rules for employees on beer drink­ing at work, said Jens Bekke, spokesman at the world no.4 brewer. 
“There has been free beer, water and soft drinks everywhere,” he said. “Yesterday, beers were removed from all refrigerators. The only place you can get a beer in future is in the can­teen, at lunch.” 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Saturday sunday 


IN BRIEF 
The Halftime A Cappella Student Musical Group are per­forming their Spring Concert tonight at 7:30 p.m. in Washington Hall. Tickets are $3 in advance or $5 at the door. Call 574-631-8128 for tickets. 
A classical music concert will be performed by the Academy of Saint Martin in the Fields tonight at 7 p.m. in the Leighton Concert Hall at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $15 for students, $22 for fac­ulty and staff and $32 for general admission. Tickets can be pur­chased by calling 574-631-2800. 
The film “Seven Samurai” will be shown Saturday at 2 p.m. in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center. Tickets are $3 for stu­dents, $5 for faculty, and $6 for general admission. Tickets can be purchased by calling 574-631­2800 or by visiting the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center box office. 
The 2010 BFA/MFA Candidates’ Theses Exhibition will be shown Sunday from 1 
p.m. to 5 p.m. in the Snite Museum of Art and the O’Shaughnessy Galleries. The event is free and open to the pub­lic. 
Supreme Knight Carl Anderson of the Knights of Columbus will be speaking and and signing copies of his new book titled “Faith, Hope & Charity: Pope Bendict’s Prescription for Catholic Living” on Monday at 8 p.m. in 155 DeBartolo Hall. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
monday tuesday 

Atlanta 68 / 40 Boston 57 / 39 Chicago 56 / 40 Denver 63 / 41 Houston 76 / 55 Los Angeles 68 / 51 Minneapolis 65 / 45 New York 62 / 42 Philadelphia 61 / 39 Phoenix 88 / 61 Seattle 51 / 36 St. Louis 69 / 46 Tampa 77 / 58 Washington 63 / 46 

Friday, April 9, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Two ND juniors awarded Truman Scholarship 
By CARLY LANDON 
News Writer 
Notre Dame juniors Elizabeth Simpson and Puja Parikh were awarded the prestigious Truman Scholarship, an award given to college juniors with plans to attend graduate school who then work to make a dif­ference through public service, according to Roberta Jordan, assistant director of national fellowships at the Center for Undergraduate Scholarly Engagement. 
“A lot of people don’t know about the Truman Scholars. But it’s the domestic equivalent of the Rhoades,” Parikh said. “There are obviously differ­ences between the two but it is a national scholarship for grad­uate school.” 
The application process start­ed in November for Notre Dame students when the Center for Scholarly Engagement contact­ed eligible applicants. 
“We begin the process in mid-fall when we reach out to jun­iors, and we have them turn in an application identical to the Truman scholarship. We have a selection committee which accesses all the students’ appli­cations and decide who will want to nominate,” Jordan said. “This year we had eight appli­cants, of whom we nominated four. Two of those four were invited to regional interviews with the Truman Scholarship Foundation.” 
Included in the application were three essays, two letters of recommendation from pro­fessors and an interview. 
“The Truman scholarship is the most extensive scholarship application that I’m aware of, even more so than the Rhoades and the Marshall and the Fulbright applications,” Jordan said. “There are a lot of compo­nents to it but they are broken down to really help the student access what they want to do in the future.” 
Simpson said she used the application process to examine what type of civil service she was passionate about and use that discovery to plan her future goals. 
“It was unique for me because I started the applica­tion when I was studying abroad in Chile. I had a little more time on my hands to just reflect and recognize the issues most important to me and to really discern that I had a pas­sion for rural development par­ticular within the U.S.,” 
By KATLYN SMITH 
News Writer 
Despite recent reports of sexual assaults on campus, Safewalk, Notre Dame’s stu­dent-employed escort service, has not seen an increase in business, according to Safewalk supervisor Cappy Gagnon. 
“We would always like stu­dents to use Safewalk more just because it’s a free serv­ice that we provide,” Gagnon said. “On the other hand, we’re pleased that the stu­dents have a high comfort level on the campus and don’t utilize us as much as we would like.” 
Gagnon said the service averages two to three escorts a night. 
During the academic year, Safewalk offers confidential escorts to and from anywhere on campus from 8 p.m. to 2 
a.m. Safewalk employees are in radio contact with Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP), carry photo identification cards and wear a vest with lettering illuminated at night. 
Dave Chapman, assistant director of NDSP, said four sexual offenses have been reported this academic year, one of which occurred in 2009. Last year, NDSP report­ed a total of two sexual offenses. 
Chapman encouraged stu­dents to take precautions, including walking with friends, calling Safewalk or reporting suspicious behav­ior. 
“We can’t be everywhere at all times so we have to depend on students here to be our ears and eyes and to help each other out,” Chapman said. 
Chapman said students should contact NDSP with any information. 

“One lead can change a whole case, and it may be something where someone thinks this isn’t going to do them any good, and it’s the best lead that we have, and it leads to the arrest of a per­son so we encourage people to call us for anything at all,” he said. 
Last year, Chapman said a Notre Dame student reported an individual’s “out-of-the­ordinary behavior.” Although the student doubted whether the information would be valuable, NDSP discovered that the individual had been trespassing following a ban from entering onto campus. The student’s tip led to the individual’s arrest, Chapman said. 
Students can report infor­mation anonymously and to further prevent crime, sign up for a Rape Aggression Defense (RAD) class, a self-defense program taught by Simpson said. talked to her.” 
“I’m from Wyoming and the In three days, Parikh was application challenged us to able to write the essays, get write about any policy that we recommendations and finish feel strongly about,” Simpson the application just in time for said. “I recognized that I’ve the due date. always had a concern and pas-“I think one of the only rea­sion for development and sons I was selected was the poverty alleviation. I realized I interview because my applica­feel called to work with poverty tion was not the strongest it alleviation within the rural could be,” she said. “After per-United States.” forming well in the interview 
Parikh, on the other hand, and being selected, I went in 
said she real- and  got  some  
ized  last  constructive criti­ 
minute that the scholar-ship applied to all gradu­ “A lot of people don’t know about the Truman Scholars. But it’s the  cism and had to rewrite three of my essays.” Once the stu- 
ate programs, whether it be m e d i c a l  domestic equivalent of the Rhoades.”  dents are nomi­nated, Jordan and other  
school,  law  U n i v e r s i t y  
school  or  Puja Parikh  employees really  
other gradu- Truman scholar  worked to  help  

ate programs. 
“I looked at the informa­tion about it, and thought this was only for grad school and I want to go to law school,” she said. “Three days before the application was due, Roberta sent me an e-mail asking me if I was going to do it, and I said I wasn’t because I want to go to law school. She said it was for law school too so I went in and 

Safewalk usage consistent 
Reports of sexual assault have not lead to an increase in demand 

NDSP officers. 
Chapman said RAD has become more popular, follow­ing campaigns by crime pre­vention officer Keri Kei Shibata. 
“Now we are running class­es every couple months, and they’re full, and we have to turn people away, and so we run them as often as we can,” Kei Shibata said. 
Overall, Chapman said stu­dents’ perceptions of safety on campus can interfere with taking safety precautions. 
“When nothing happens to you while you are here, you get that mentality that noth­ing can happen to you, and that’s the kind of mentality that we want to discourage,” Chapman said. “Yes it can happen to you, and we don’t want it to happen to you but here’s what we can do to try to prevent that from happen­ing to you.” 
Contact Katlyn Smith at ksmith33@nd.edu 
fine tune the stu­
dents’ applica­
tions. 
“We have mock interviews and we work really hard to give them an experience that will replicate what they are about to face at their regional inter­views,” Jordan said. “We play devils advocate, and really push them on being able to respond to the questions about their applications. 
Both Simpson and Parikh said they look forward to their sen­ior years, knowing that the pos­sibilities available in their future have just opened up. 
“Because of the prestige of this scholarship, I hope that it will open some opportunities they might not have considered as far as graduate programs they are looking at,” Jordan said. “And for them, I’m sure it is nice to know that they already have $30,000 dollars in their pockets to pay for that graduate school.” 
Parikh said she plans to apply to law school next year and become a public health lawyer. 
“I knew I wanted to do public health law, and I knew I was a really good public speaker so I focused my whole application on being an application for dif­ferent aspects of health law reform,” Parikh said. “I was really excited when I found out, and I had visions of top law schools floating through my head because I felt like I really could do it.” 
Simpson looks forward to the opportunity to study rural development. 
“I never imagined that leav­ing the state of Wyoming and coming to [Notre Dame] that I would desire to study rural development. This application was the catalyst to help me do that, and has helped me realize there are resources available to help me do that,” Simpson said. 
“It is somewhat of a relief to know I have already established a certain amount of funding for graduate school so I can head in that direction,” Simpson said. “I am also excited for the internship that the Truman Foundation will coordinate for the summer after senior year. I want to intern with the U.S. Department of Agriculture.” 
Notre Dame has not had a Truman Scholar in nine years, and this is the first time in the history of Notre Dame that two students have received the award in the same year. 
“We are thrilled to have two scholars in one year. It’s been a long time since we’ve had even one — our last one was in 2001 
— so we are especially proud to have had such great success this year,” Jordan said. 
Contact Carly Landon at   clandon1@nd.edu 
Levi Strauss & Co. wins University award 
Special to The Observer 
Armin Broger will accept the 2010 Theodore M. Hesburgh Award for Exemplary Ethical, Environmental, Social and Governance Practices from the University of Notre Dame April 12 (Monday) on behalf of his company, Levi Strauss & Co. 
Broger, a 1986 alumnus of the Notre Dame MBA pro ­gram, serves as president of Levi Strauss, Europe. 
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C, Notre Dame president emeritus, will present the award at 4 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. The award is presented annually by Notre Dame’s Institute for Ethical Business Worldwide and Center for Ethics and Religious Values in Business. 
The apparel company Levi Strauss was nominated for the award for two areas of contribution, explains event organizer, Patrick E. Murphy, a professor of marketing at Notre Dame. First, in 1991, Levi Strauss became the first multi-national apparel com­pany to extend a comprehen­sive code of conduct beyond its own facilities, to its suppli­ers to provide the individuals making their products world­wide with safe and healthy working conditions. 
Second, this year Levi Strauss became the first major retailer to include mes­saging encouraging con ­sumers to donate used cloth­ing on its product care tags. The “A Care Tag for Our Planet” program is a partner­ship with Goodwill Industries that empowers consumers to participate in their mission to reduce waste and increase the life cycle of clothing. 
The award ceremony, which is free and open to the public, will be followed by the Frank Cahill Lecture featuring a panel discussion by current MBA students Molly Iarocci, Karl Jensen, Matt Kelly and Azar Williams, who will dis­cuss ethical issues they have faced in the early years of their professional careers. 
Previous winners of the Hesburgh Award include General Electric, Starbucks Chairman Howard Schultz, and Ronald Grzywinski and Mary Houghton of ShoreBank Corp. 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 9, 2010 
sional staff, as well as the recently stepped down after working relationship on revamping the first and renovation of the entire 13 years. between both of them,” he second floor of the Library, 
Library 

building, The Observer “I think our main concern said. she said. continued from page 1 reported in November. … is we want a director Ohmer said the University “We ’re going to have “Our graduate students who will be able to help us will not begin the interview reading rooms, ” Ohmer 
“A strategic plan is when and our undergraduates are assess the process until said. “But also, more people from all over the really important and if your competing next academ-spaces for collaborative University sit down and work is being compromised d e m a n d s “How do we sort out these ic year. work and a seminar room.” confer about the general in some way, we want to on the competing priorities? We “Id eally , “The Library is meant to direction of a program. It know that. I found the peti-L i b r a r y, ” they hope to be a place of activity and 
expect the director to

guides you when moving tion very helpful and the O h m e r bring in can-people gathering, [like] the forward,” Ohmer said. Provost did as well,” Ohmer said. have some vision and didates in the way it is during finals She said the strategic plan said. A major insight to help us make fall sometime week. Now, it’s sort of quiet will answer questions about However, the strategic q u e s t i o n and then, if it up there,” Ohmer said. 
those decisions.” 

the Library’s plan will not will be goes well, Prior to renovating the needs. be able to be w h e t h e r they will be building, however, Morris “What do “Our graduate students finished until the Library Susan Ohmer able to make said the Library should we want to and our undergraduates the University should be Assistant Provost an offer,” she acquire a depository, a stress? What chooses a focused on said. “Often, place where books can be 
are really important and
do we need new director, acquiring people start stored. going for -if your work is being Ohmer said. books or utilizing electronic the following academic year “I think that has to hap-ward if compromised in some “It won’t be resources, Ohmer said. but somebody may start pen before the renovation,” we ’re going carved in “How do we sort out these sooner.” he said. “Right now, they 
way, we want to know 
to continue stone because competing priorities? We want to renovate the build-
that.” 
to expand? when the new expect the director to have Renovations ing, but they have no place What do we d i r e c t o r some vision and insight to Renovation plans for the to put books.” need that we Susan Ohmer comes in the help us make those deci -Library are in place, but Ohmer said she would like don’t have?” director will sions,” she said. the University is still wait-input from students on 
Assistant Provost 
she said. be bringing Morris said Notre Dame ing for funding, Ohmer what they normally use the 
The strate-new ideas has a unique opportunity to said. Library for during the gic plan comes in the after-and experiences,” she said. integrate the two competing “The renovations are semester. She encouraged math of a petition calling facets of the Library, and he expensive. We are fortunate students to contact her at for improvements to the The search for a new said he hopes the Library that we have pledges from sohmer@nd.edu. Library, which was founded director can formulate a strong rela-donors, but it can take “If people want to share by graduate student David The University is conduct-tionship with the Office of awhile for the money to be ideas, I would really wel ­Morris. ing a national search for a Information Technologies. delivered,” she said. “When come that,” she said. 
The petition called for an new director of Hesburgh “It would be nice if we that money comes in, we’re increase in both the number Libraries to replace could sort of rewrite both ready to get to work.” Contact Sarah Mervosh at of collections and of profes-Jennifer Younger, who positions and have a closer The renovation will focus smervosh@nd.edu 
Students to present at United Nations 
Peace studies classmates develop proposal focused on Colombia 
Special to The Observer 
Five University of Notre Dame peace studies master’s students who developed an innovative proposal to advance peace in Colombia will present their recommen­dations to a panel of experts at the United Nations head­quarters in New York on Friday (April 9). 
The proposal, developed by classmates Maria Helena Ariza, Colombia; Jimena Holguin, Colombia; Rachel Miller, USA; Patrick Otim, Uganda; and Laura Snider, USA; was selected for this honor by Students Participating in Resolving International Tensions (SPIRIT), a partnership of the U.N. and Columbia University. 
“When you work on an academic project, you always have this dream of creating something that becomes real outside of the university, ” Holguin said. “We feel very privileged to present our ideas and meet so many people in policy ­making and peacebuilding. It’s an opportunity to show the world what we can really do.” 
The students’ project, “La CARA de la Paz, ” is a detailed plan for a new phase of Colombia’s disar­mament, demobilization and reintegration (DDR) process, which focuses on reintegrat­ing more than 40,000 former combatants from paramili­tary and guerrilla groups. The students’ plan calls for Colombia ’s existing DDR resources to be used for inclusive projects that pro­mote peaceful co-existence and reconciliation among all members of the community, including the victims of the conflict. 
“In a war that has gone on for nearly 70 years, we’re not talking about victims and perpetrators anymore,” said Snider. “Former fighters and victims all live next door to each other and need a way to transcend their war iden­tities. If everyone can work on common goals and benefit collectively, there is less rea­son to take up arms in the future.” 

The roots of the project go back to a class the five stu­dents took together in 2009 with John Paul Lederach, professor of international peacebuilding, who asked students to form teams and work together to map out 
one major world conflict. Last fall, Notre Dame’s Kroc Institute for International Studies was invited to par­ticipate in the SPIRIT com­petition. After hearing about the competition, students decided to turn their aca ­demic presentation into a proposal. A flurry of transat­lantic e-mails ensued, since the students were in Uganda, South Africa and the United States pursuing their internships at Kroc field sites. 
This week at the U.N., the students will join other teams of students from around the world presenting creative plans for alleviating violence and suffering in the Afghanistan/Pakistan border region, Colombia or Israel-Palestine. Experts will work with the students to refine their plans and prepare an implementation strategy. In keeping with SPIRIT’s phi­losophy of “open -source peacebuilding,” the students’ proposal will be available for any person or group who wishes to draw from it, adapt it or implement it. 
“This project has been a great way to ‘challenge theo­ry with practice,’ which is what the Kroc Institute expects of us,” Snider said. “We took what we had learned and put it in a proj­ect that would really work in the world.” Holguin, who has worked as an analyst and technical advisor for the government of Colombia, said she hopes the plan “could be a model or inspi­ration for other DDR processes around the world and even, we hope, a real contribution to Colombia.” 
Student 
continued from page 1 
director of the Voices of Faith Gospel Choir and active with the Center for Social Concerns, serving as the student coordinator of its “Lives in the Balance: Youth Violence and Society Seminar.” 
For more than two years, Washington has worked in a research lab with biology professor David Severson, with whom she co-authored a research paper. 
Washington said working as an undergraduate in a research lab has been one of the most significant parts of her college experience. 
“It has been a really transformative experience,” she said. “I was able to take charge of a project on my own but also build rela­tionships with people in my lab.” 
Washington said her work in the lab with mos­quitoes that transmit dis­eases like dengue fever and malaria has cultivated her interested in global health equity. 
“These diseases account for many of the deaths of people in impoverished countries,” she said. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said the Valedictorian Selection Committee unanimously chose Washington from a group of 11 students. 

“The Valedictorian Selection Committee was greatly moved by the address that Katie Washington wrote for her fellow graduates and their families and guests, ” Associate Provost Dennis Jacobs. 
Jacobs said Washington is an exemplar for the gradu­ating class. 
“Katie ’s time at Notre Dame exemplifies the prin­ciples by which she lives — excellence in all she does, compassionate service to those in need and a deeply rooted faith life that ani­mates her, ” he said. “Katie’s humble but deter­mined spirit represents well the Class of 2010 and will serve as an inspiration for generations to come.” 
Upon graduation, Washington plans to pursue an M.D./Ph.D. dual degree from Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, Md. 
Contact Katie Peralta kperalta@nd.edu 

World & Nation 
Friday, April 9, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Outburst shows wounds unhealed 
JOHANNESBURG — A white politician stormed out of a live TV debate about race relations and a black leader of the ruling African National Congress threw racial epi­thets at a journalist he kicked out of a news conference. 
The events are just part of the fallout in South Africa after the slaying of a notorious white supremacist. Eugene Terreblanche, leader of the once-feared AWB paramilitary group, was bludgeoned to death on his farm April 3. The acrimonious aftermath reveals strained race relations 16 years after apartheid collapsed and Nelson Mandela became president, urging all races to come together. 
Former bishop accused of abuse 
OSLO — Norway’s Catholic Church has received new allegations of clergy abuse after revealing that its former bishop had admitted to molesting a minor in the early 1990s, a church official said Thursday. 
The current bishop, Bernt Eidsvig, told The Associated Press he had received e-mails alleging new cases of abuse, but said the nature and seriousness of the claims remain unclear. 
“There may be something very serious there. But there may also be things there that lunatics made up,” Eidsvig said. “Whether it is abuse of minors or stupid priests doing things which are sinful but not illegal or things between adults — I can’t say yet.” 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Sikhs protest minister’s appearance 
NEW YORK — Several dozen Sikhs on Thursday protested a speech by an Indian minister who they say instigated mob riots in their country in 1984 that left more than 3,000 dead, most of them Sikhs. 
About 100 members of the Sikhs for Justice, a U.S.-based human rights organization, gath­ered outside McGraw-Hill’s headquarters in Manhattan where Kamal Nath, India’s federal minister in charge of road transport and high­ways and a Congress party member of India’s Parliament, was addressing McGraw-Hill Construction’s Global Construction Summit. 
“We want to put him behind bars. Anyone guilty should be behind bars,” said Avtar Singh Pannu of Queens, the group’s coordina­tor. 
The group’s legal adviser, Gurpatwant S. Pannun, called Nath “a violator of human rights” who shouldn’t be in the U.S. 
Ex-employee guilty of torturing elderly 
LOS ANGELES — A former nursing home worker accused of body-slamming one 78­year-old woman and encouraging wheel-chair-confined residents of a pricey assisted-living facility to fight was found guilty Thursday of torture and elder abuse. 
Jurors deliberated for less than a day before convicting Cesar Ulloa. 
“He attacked the most vulnerable people, and he laughed while doing it. This was sport for him,” Deputy District Attorney Robin Allen with the Elder Abuse Unit said. 
The Silverado Senior Living facility in Calabasas specializes in caring for people with dementia and charges $70,000 a year or more for care, prosecutors said. 
LOCAL NEWS 

U.S. Rep. Pence leads GOP comeback 
INDIANAPOLIS — U.S. Rep. Mike Pence helped rev up about 730 people at the Indiana Republican state dinner by urging them to help the party regain control of the U.S. House in November and the presidency in 2012. 
The eastern Indiana congressman told the crowd in Indianapolis Thursday night that the Obama administration and the Democrat-con­trolled Congress were on a course of runaway spending and big government. 
Pence is the third-ranking Republican in the 
U.S. House and has been an outspoken critic of Democratic President Barack Obama’s poli­cies. 
Noxious gas levels fall in coal mine 
Conditions improve, offer hope to find four missing workers 
Associated Press 
MONTCOAL, W.Va. — Levels of noxious gas dropped Thursday in a coal mine where 25 workers died in an explosion, giving res­cuers hope that they might be able to get inside soon to look for four still missing. 
Teams spent more than four hours working their way through the Upper Big Branch mine by rail car and on foot in the morning, but had to turn back because of an explosive mix of gases in the area they needed to search. 
Crews at the surface resumed drilling in an effort to get fresh air into the mine. Gov. Joe Manchin said Thursday evening that the levels were near those con­sidered safe. 
“We’re just moving as quickly as we can,” Manchin said. “We want to bring the loved ones back.” 
Rescue teams had made it within 500 feet of an airtight chamber with four days worth of food, water and oxy­gen where they hoped the miners might have sought refuge Monday after the worst U.S. mining disaster in more than two decades. 
Chris Adkins, chief operat­ing officer for mine owner Massey Energy Co., said the rescue teams were angry Branch when it was rocked The rescue crews were showed the air was too dan­when told to abandon the by the blast. leaving their equipment gerous to continue. mission, but their safety was Despite the increasingly behind so they did not have Adkins said rescue teams paramount. He said the slim chance of finding anyone to lug it back in with them described seeing evidence of teams are off their feet and alive, Adkins said he consid-when they returned. “a horrendous explosion and resting, but too anxious to ered Thursday’s effort a res-Manchin said the families a lot of destruction.” sleep. cue mission. of those stll in the mine were He also said they may have 
Massey’s chief executive “I still believe in God, I being patient. found an alternate route that officer, Don Blankenship, con-believe, and I’m not gonna “These are the strongest, will allow them to get where tinued to defend his compa-give up,” he said. toughest people I’ve ever they need to be faster when ny’s record and disputed The rescue crews did not seen,” he said. “These people they can safely go back in. accusations from miners that get far enough to see the bod-can handle about anything Once that happens, res-he puts coal profits ahead of ies of the dead or if anyone you put up.” cuers will have to walk safety. had made it to the chamber. Rescuers had already had through an area officials have 
“To some extent the fact They knew where the bodies to wait to enter the mine until described as strewn with that there were more sur-would be because rescuers crews drilled holes deep into bodies, twisted railroad track, vivors than those that are lost made it that far before gases the earth to ventilate lethal shattered concrete block suggests that the mine was in forced them out of the mine carbon monoxide and highly walls and vast amounts of pretty good shape relative to after the explosion Monday. explosive hydrogen as well as dust. Each team member what mines would have been Officials were not sure methane gas, which has been wears 30 pounds of breathing in the past and hopefully by what caused the high gas lev-blamed for the explosion. The equipment, lugs first-aid today’s standards,” he told els this time but said a drop air quality was deemed safe equipment and must try to The Associated Press in an in barometric pressure as a enough early in the day for see through total darkness interview Thursday. There storm rolled in might be to four teams of eight members with only a cap lamp to light were 61 miners in Upper Big blame. each to go in, but later tests the way. 

Daddefendsmenaccusedofrapingdaughter 
father so as not to identify his daughter. It soon escalated to rape, police said, 
Associated Press 
In all, five men and boys have been and the men threatened to kill the child 
ATRENTON, N.J. — The father of a arrested on suspicion of raping the girl. if she screamed or told anyone, accord-girl police say was gang-raped at a The other suspects are ages 13 and 14. ing to police. party by at least five men is defending According to police, the 7-year-old The girl later put on her clothes and three of them, saying they tried to get was prostituted out by her 15-year-old left the apartment; her older sister his daughter out of the apartment stepsister, who watched as she was stayed, police say. Two women found where she was attacked but were raped by as many as seven men and the child crying outside the apartment stymied by others who held them at boys at a party March 28. As many as a and walked her home, where police gunpoint. dozen people were at the party, held in were waiting because the girls’ parents 
“These three had nothing to do with a vacant apartment in a crime-plagued had reported them missing. nothing; I don’t know why they locked public housing complex not far from the Leary’s lawyer suggested Thursday in them up,” the father said of Gregory New Jersey Statehouse. court that the child had been pressured Leary, 20; Timear Lewis, 19; and a 17-Investigators said that soon after to make up the story. year-old whom authorities have not arriving, the older girl took money to “She was not raped, was not gang-identified because of his age. have sex with several men at a party, raped,” Robin Lord said. “I’m 100 per­
“My daughter said these guys were including Leary. The teen then gave cent certain that the 7-year-old was not trying to help her,” the father said. some of the money she had collected to sexually assaulted. The allegations will The Associated Press does not identify the younger girl to let the men start not be substantiated by any forensic 
sex crime victims and is not naming the touching her. evidence.” 

page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 9, 2010 
Service 
continued from page 1 
The event was started last year by the Community Relations and Social Concerns committees of stu­dent government, and par­ticipation in the event is pro­jected to be higher than last year’s total, Roseberry said. 
“Students have been doing service in the community for a very long time, ” senior Denise Baron, co -director of 

“The role of 
the event and interact with outgoing community the South Bend Community community,
relations in both
Relations chair, Baron said she 
student government
said. “That mis-b e l i e v e s sion of service and CommUniversity really shines Day allows par-
CommUniversity
through in ticipating stu ­
Day is to make sure
CommUniversity dents to learn Day because we are the best something students are about them ­
possible neighbors
doing service in selves. 
to South Bend.” 
the traditional “The day rec-sense, but they ognizes the are also partici-Denise Baron reciprocal pating in civic nature of Notre 
co-director 
involvement by Dame’s relation-
CommUniversity Day 
working with ship with South 
public works.” 
Baron also said the University has modified its commitment to serving the community by creating new positions in community relations and increasing funding of service projects. She said CommUniversity Day lends its success to the continual collaboration between students, Notre Dame staff and administra­tors, community leaders and city officials. 
“The role of community relations in both student government and CommUniversity Day is to make sure we are the best possible neighbors to South Bend,” Baron said. “It really builds bridges and relation-
Tuition 
continued from page 1 
College increased tuition and fees by five percent, and room and board by three percent. 
“The increases are taken into account in determining financial aid awards and may impact need based financial aid, in particular,” he said. 
Overall, the rate of increase for tuition, fees, room and board is 4.32 per­cent. The total increase for the 2009-10 academic year was 4.5 percent. 
“The administration reviewed the need for pric­ing increases in the context 
of the projected 2010 -11 budget,” Speller said. “The administration recommends the pricing structure to the Board of Trustees who have the final authority for the pricing decision. The Board ships through connections between people on and off campus.” 
Roseberry also emphasized that CommUniversity Day is much more than just a day of service to the community. 
“We want to work with the community to better the area together,” Roseberry said. “The dynamic of engagement with the community has changed, so we are always looking for creative ways to engage with the community.” 
In addition to discovering 
new ways for 
Notre Dame to 
Bend, ” Baron said. “Our free labor and service directly help to improve the community, but they also help students understand service in a broader sense and their place in the world outside South Bend as well.” 
Both Roseberry and Baron hope the event will expand and be improved in the future based on the needs of the community and the ideas of students. 
“The model will be different every year depending on who is involved,” Baron said. “It’s an organic, self-defining proj­ect that is always changing.” 
Contact Kirsten Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
of Trustees approved the 2010-11 student charges at its meeting in February.” 
The College has continu­ously increased the cost of attendance since 2006. According to Speller, the total annual cost for the 2005-06 academic year was $32,538. The total cost of attendance for the 2010-11 academic year will be $40,500. 
According to a College press release, 80 percent of Saint Mary’s operating rev­enue comes from tuition, room and board. 
The College is also sup ­ported by gifts from alum­nae and friends. Additionally the College gains financial resources through they earnings of the endowment. 
Speller said a letter dis­cussing price increases was sent to parents in March. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@nd.edu 
exciting time for our entire program, watching it’s evolu-
Building 
tion over the next 18 
continued from page 1 
tion firm, on a previous proj­ect, Purcell Pavilion,” Lyphout said. “The new arena will be an improve­ment from what we have now 
graduating. They deserve to see how their efforts and on ice success have helped ele­vate the Irish hockey pro­gram,” he said. “This also goes for all the great hockey alumni that have waited a long time for this, many of which have con­tributed a lot of money to make 
Lyphout said he does not anticipate any problems. 
“[The closed roads] will be open and in use before the first home football game,” Lyphout said. 
The roads that are current-months.” 
He said the new facility will improve upon almost every­thing the current program has, including ice conditions, controlled practice environ-
in that it will add 2,000 seats ments, lock-“The new arena will be it a reality.” and have two sheets of ice, er rooms Jackson said 
an improvement from 
one for the hockey team and and player he had a hand 
what we have now in
one for student and commu-amenities, in the design of nity use.” equipment that it will add 2,000 the new facility. The new arena will be and trainer “We wanted it 
seats and have two 
located on the north side of facilities, to be built with 
sheets of ice, one for
Angela Boulevard, south of w e i g h t a ‘retro’ appeal, the Joyce Center. rooms and the hockey team and not just a ‘cook-Construction will last until offices for one for student and ie cutter’ bowl December of 2011. staff. appearance,” he 
community use.” 
“The new ice arena has “The best said. been a target project for a part of all is He said the long time,” Lyphout said. the environ-James Lyphout design team “Preliminary planning began ment that it vice president looked at older in February of 2009.” will create college rinks 
Business Operations
for our stu­dents and fans. Having balconies all around will cre­ate an intimate environment and intimidating to our oppo­nents,” Jackson said. “Having 
ly closed were open during a majority the NCAA women’s bas­ketball tourna­
“We wanted it to be 
ment on March 21 and 23 and built with a ‘retro’ will be open for 
appeal, not just a 
the Blue and 
‘cookie cutter’ bowl 
Gold football game on April appearance.” 24, the Commencement 
Jeff Jackson
exercises from 
Irish hockey coach 
May 14 to 16 and the 2010 Alumni of chair back seats, a club area and seat­ing all with great sight lines for watching a hockey game will be awe ­some for our loyal support­ers. They will also benefit from the ameni­ties like rest ­rooms, conces­sions and sou-
Reunion from June 3 to 6, according to a University press release. 
Hockey coach Jeff Jackson said he is thrilled for the new facility. 
“It is exciting to see the construction get under way,” Jackson said. “It will be an venir shops that we desper­ately lack at the JACC.” 
Jackson said the players have helped build the pro­gram to what it is today. 
“So many of the players that have helped build this program over the last five years have graduated or are like 
Northeastern’s 
Matthews Arena and Michigan’s Yost Arena for inspiration, as well as new arenas at Miami and Denver. 
“My main emphasis was making it an exciting venue for our students and fans, something that we can all be proud to call our home, including future recruits, and a scary place for our oppo­nents to play,” Jackson said. 
Also under construction is Harper Hall, an addition to Raclin Carmichael Hall, part of the Indiana University School of Medicine at the University of Notre Dame. 
The two-story 72,000 square foot hall will function as a cancer research center. Construction is expected to be complete during the 2010­11 winter season, according to the University Architect Web site. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 



The Observer 
Business

Friday, April 9, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Steak n Shake parent changes name 
INDIANAPOLIS — Steak n Shake Co. share­holders have approved changing the parent company’s name to Biglari Holdings Inc. 
Shareholders approved the name change Thursday during Steak n Shake’s annual meeting in New York City. Shares will begin trading Friday under the new name and tick­er symbol, BH. 
The Indianapolis Business Journal reported in February that the parent company pro­posed the name change to avoid confusion between it and its subsidiaries, including Indianapolis-based Steak n Shake Operations Inc. 
Steak n Shake Operations’ restaurants will retain the Steak n Shake name. 
The parent company moved its corporate headquarters from Indianapolis to San Antonio last year, but most Steak n Shake employees remain in Indianapolis. 
Winfrey plans night show on network 
NEW YORK — Calling her new venture “the net­work built on great intentions,” Oprah Winfrey says her sleeves are rolled up to make the Oprah Winfrey Network “all that I know it can be.” 
What will those great intentions look like? Speaking to media buyers Thursday at a presenta­tion by partner Discovery Communications, Winfrey filled in a few of the gaps that have left people won­dering just what her round-the-clock network will be since she announced it in January 2008. 
She took her audience through a dozen or so new shows planned for OWN after its launch next Jan. 1, and offered reassurance that she would be appear­ing on the 24-hour network she’ll also be guiding from behind the scenes. 
After reigning in daytime for a quarter-century, she moves to nights to host a show called “Oprah's Next Chapter” that will release her from the con­fines of a studio and talk-show format for conversa­tions and travel around the world. 
“I'll do it anywhere, I'll do it anytime, with any­body I want,” she summed up saucily. Expected to air two or three nights a week, “Oprah's Next Chapter” is scheduled to premiere in late 2011. That will be shortly after Winfrey lays to rest her week­day syndicated talk show at the close of its 25th sea­son, a milestone she had said “feels right in my bones” when she made her plans official on the air last November. 
Major American airlines combine 
Passengers worried United-U.S. Airways coalition will increase airfares 
Associated Press  
MINNEAPOLIS — Bigger  
isn’t necessarily better for  
airline customers.  
United and US Airways  
are talking about combining  
into what would be the sec- 
ond-largest U.S. carrier.  
Travel watchers said that  
although a reduction in  
service and competition  
works out for money-losing  
carriers, it’s not usually to  
the benefit of airline passen­ 
gers.  
“Mergers tend to be a net  
negative for consumers,”  
said Tim Winship, the editor  
of FrequentFlier.com.  
A combined United-US  
Airways would trail only  
Delta Air Lines Inc. in size.  
Combining them “would  
inevitably result in a signifi­ 
cant loss of competition, the  
predictable result of which  
would be an increase in air­ 
fares in certain markets,”  
Winship said.  
The last big airline combi­ 
nation — Delta and  
Northwest — has so far gone  
as well as could be expected  
for both airlines and passen­ 
gers. Airfares have actually  
dropped in the time since  
the deal closed in late 2008 AP  
but that largely reflects the A United Airlines plane and a U.S. Airways plane share the runway at Sky Harbor  
recession’s impact. People International Airport in Phoenix Thursday after news of their merger was met with approval.  
who can travel have enjoyed  
deeply discounted fares over  they have, it’s a net bad  Winship said he’s most  Airways CEO Doug Parker,  
the past year. Airlines cut  thing for consumers because  worried that the US Airways  has been that the U.S. has  
fares to keep leisure travel­ it’s less competition,” he  approach to travelers would  too many big carriers offer­ 
ers flying, as business travel  said.  be the one that survives. He  ing too many seats. That  
dropped sharply. U.S. carri- Both United and US  said US Airways gave away  drives down ticket prices  
ers all reduced capacity too.  Airways have been improv­ about 4 percent of its seats  and makes it harder to turn  
Airlines are beginning to see  ing their operations. In  to frequent fliers last year —  a profit. US Airways and  
business travel return.  February, even as massive  half the rate of United,  United lost a combined $856  
Rick Seaney, CEO of  storms tied up East Coast  American, and Southwest.  million last year.  
FareCompare.com, said it  flights, United and US  And US Airways riled pas- UBS analyst Kevin Crissey  
will take another year to see  Airways had the top two  sengers last year when it  wrote in a note that no  
whether fares increase in  arrival rates among interna­ tried to charge for bottled  major U.S. airline is earning  
the long run because of  tional carriers, according to  water; it backed down.  a profit that justifies the size  
Delta’s purchase of  Transportation Department  “Overall, they have been a  of its investments.  
Northwest.  data released Thursday.  pretty consumer-unfriendly  “Consolidation, though not  
He said competition is the  It’s far from certain that a  airline,” he said. If US  easy, riskless, or free, is a  
main thing that drives ticket  deal will actually take place.  Airways is the corporate cul­ logical way to attempt to  
prices lower. United and US  Antitrust regulators would  ture that survives, instead of  rectify this long standing  
Airways are both major car- have to clear it, and pilots  “a midsized consumer- problem,” he wrote.  
riers in Washington,  from different unions would  unfriendly carrier, we would  He estimated that a major  
although that market also  have to be integrated. And  have a mega consumer- combination such as United- 
has extensive service from  it’s unclear which name  unfriendly carrier,” he said.  US Airways would reduce  
discount carriers.  would survive, where the  The general thinking  capacity as much as 3 per­ 
“Anytime you take some- combined company would  among analysts, and airline  cent, mostly in the U.S. With  
body off the board, regard- be based, or who would run  executives including United  fewer seats and competition,  
less of how much overlap  it.  CEO Glenn Tilton and US  fares should rise, he wrote.  

MayoraskspoliticaldonorstothinkofNYC 
Associated Press in the letter released Thursday. Every spring since 2006, the billion-
By reaching out to thousands of aire Republican-turned-independent 
NEW YORK — Mayor Michael contributors in a direct-mail cam-mayor has gathered wealthy donors Bloomberg is expanding his effort to paign, the effort could have implica-for a lunch at the Four Seasons, persuade political donors to write tions on races nationwide. where he lists the causes he wants checks only to candidates who pledge “It’s certainly a novel way to influ-them to consider before supporting to keep New York City’s priorities in ence the influencers,” said Dave anyone running for office. mind. Levinthal, spokesman for the Center He gives his guests a card for them 
Bloomberg has for years lobbied a for Responsive Politics, which tracks to keep in their wallets that has a list small group of donors to dole out their money in politics. “This is the mayor of his legislative priorities for the year. cash to candidates who back causes of the most powerful city in the United The intention is that donors will con-that benefit the city, but now he is States lobbying for his agenda sult the card and question candidates expanding the effort by mailing letters through folks with a lot of influence about those issues before writing any to 50,000 New Yorkers who give and clout.” checks. money to political campaigns all over Seven of the 10 ZIP codes that The annual lunch is Thursday. This the country. donated the most money nationwide year, Bloomberg and his organizing 
“We want you to know about New to candidates during the 2008 presi-partners expanded the effort and York City’s highest priorities — and as dential cycle are in New York City, wrote letters to 50,000 New Yorkers someone who is active in politics, you more than $6 million coming from — all of whom have contributed $200 have the opportunity to call for action just one swath of Manhattan’s Upper or more in federal elections from the on those priorities,” Bloomberg wrote East Side. 2004 cycle until present. 

page 8 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Friday, April 9, 2010 
Trial team heads to Nationals 
By CASEY KENNY 
News Writer 
Notre Dame’s Mock Trial Team 925 will compete with the best teams in the country at the American Mock Trial Association’s National Championship Tournament April 16-18 in Memphis, Tenn. 

In February, “We have spent m a k e very competitive environ ­Notre Dame countless hours objections ment,” Crisostomo said. “I am hosted the and do especially excited since this is 
preparing for the case, 
South Bend o p e n i n g the first time I have partici­
and I am really proud
Regional from and closing pated in the later levels of which the top of our team for a r g u -competition and it provides a teams advanced ments.” great end to my mock trial 
advancing this far.” 
to the Opening According career.” Round National to the asso-Crisostomo also said he Championship Puja Parikh c i a t i o n ’s enjoys the commitment and series recently team co-captain constitu -camaraderie of the team 
held in Illinois. 
The Mock Trial Team 925 was among the top six teams from that competition to advance to nationals. The top six teams from each of eight opening round tournaments around the country advance to the nationals in Memphis, repre­senting the top 48 teams from across the country. 
The team consists of 10 members who have been preparing for the upcoming competition. 
“We have spent countless hours preparing for the case, and I am really proud of our team for advancing this far,” co-captain Puja Parikh said. “We have almost lived and 
brea the d  Mock  Tri al  this  
year,  so  this  is  definitely  
rewarding.”  

The Notre Dame Mock Trial Association began in 1989 and includes both classroom work and competition experi­ence. 

“Basically, we simulate what occurs during a real trial,” Parikh said. “We get to be attorneys, both for the prosecution and defense, we put on witnesses that the attorneys direct and cross-examine in order to receive testimony, and as attorneys, enter in evidence, 
Greene receives 2010 Ganey Award 
Special to The Observer 
Stuart Greene, associate dean for undergraduate stud­ies in the University of Notre Dame’s College of Arts and Letters and associate profes­sor in the Department of English, was honored with the 2010 Rodney F. Ganey, Ph.D., Faculty Community -Based Research Award at a ceremo­ny this week. 
The award, presented by Notre Dame’s Center for Social Concerns, recognizes Greene’s latest project, No Parent Left Behind (NPLB), a parent-centered research ini­tiative that springs both from Greene’s theoretical work in literacy learning and his many years of community -based research in South Bend schools. 
“Stuart’s commitment to research and service in edu­cation is truly admirable,” said John McGreevy, I.A. O’Shaughnessy Dean of the College of Arts and Letters. “I am particularly pleased to see his work recognized for the positive impact it has had on both our community and our students. 
“What he’s accomplished through the NPLB initiative is a great example of Notre Dame’s commitment to con­ducting research, providing a vibrant undergraduate educa­tion, and engaging in and with the world.” 
The Ganey Award recog ­nizes faculty research that engages Notre Dame students in collaborations that affect real community issues in South Bend. 
It was a conversation with school principals about the need for more parental involvement that started Greene on his two-year study that connected students from the College of Arts and Letters’ Education, Schooling and Society (ESS) minor with parents in local schools. Based on interviews, focus groups and surveys, Greene and his students “began to challenge prevailing models of parental involvement for minority and low-income parents,” he said. 
“The typical observation about low-income parents is that they just don’t get involved in their children’s learning,” Greene said. “What we’re finding is that they’re actually doing a lot—it’s just not as visible as it could or should be. Our work is helping these parents tell their own stories, opening the way for them to make teachers and administrators aware of their strengths—and their needs.” 
Driscoll emphasizes liturgical reform 
Crisostomo said. “With the exception of the presiding judge, all parts in a trial are played by students who act both as witnesses and the attorneys.” 
Mock Trial Team 925 is expecting tough competition at the Nationals. 
“Nationals is an opportunity to go against the best schools in the country and will be a 
By BRITTANY VANSNEPSON 
News Writer 
Saint Mary ’s hosted Fr. Michael Driscoll, associate professor of theology at Notre Dame, as the final part of the “Catholicism at the Crossroads ” lecture series. 
Driscoll emphasized the 
history of liturgical reform and how the nine primary English-speaking countries of the world decided to collaborate to form one uni­versal under­standing of the English language. 
Driscoll said have to deal with the active participation of people, both outward and inward, within the Catholic community. 
“The liturgy is an art unto itself. It is enacted and embodied,” Driscoll said. 
Driscoll said the theologi­cal concerns are how the community believes in the presence of God — past, present and future and ethi­
“The liturgy is an art unto itself. It is enacted and embodied.” 
Fr. Mike Driscoll Associate professor of theology 
cal concerns imply the mission that a person is undertaking after leaving the Church. 
“We’ve been nour ­ished at the table of our Lord, so that now we can move on to our mission,” Driscoll said. “There has to 
tion, the 

purpose of the organization is “to stimu­late reasoned and analytical thinking, to improve public speaking, to further individ­ual experience in the legal members. 
“The people involved in Mock Trial are some of the most dedicated people I’ve ever met and have become some of my closest friends,” he said. “By the end of each 

field and in the courtroom, and to succeed in intercollegiate competition at the regional and national levels.” 
Mock trial classes, which have been offered for credit by the College of Arts and Letters since 2002, pro­
“Mock Trial class teaches students how a criminal or civil trial is carried out by using a hands-on approach.” 
David Crisostomo senior team member 
year, the team feels more like a family. 
“I guess the best evidence of the affinity for this program among Mock the ultimate goal would be for an English speaker to “go from country to country and participate in the litur­gy without any hesitation.” 
Driscoll then addressed the three concerns of Synod of Bishops, which are litur­gical, theological and ethi­cal. This helps people better understand the mystery of how the Eucharist works in that, the way people pray leads to the way they believe which leads to the way people live. 
“The Eucharist is a mys­tery to be celebrated, believed and lived,” he said. 
The liturgical concerns be this strengthening between life and mission.” 
Driscoll also addressed the Aesthetics of Worship, which involve the three lev­els of mystagogy. The first level focuses on an excel­lent, careful, well-planned and well -executed liturgy. The last two emphasizes the reflection and sharing of the liturgy between an individ­ual and community. 
“The liturgy is a full con­science and active participa­tion of all of the baptized,” Driscoll said. 
Contact Brittany VanSnepson at bvansn01@saintmarys.edu 

vide an introduction to the fundamentals of arguing a case. 
“Mock Trial class teaches students how a criminal or civil trial is carried out by using a hands-on approach,” team member senior David Trial members is that the alumni of the program will often visit to help coach or even judge in the competi­tions.” 
Contact Casey Kenny at ckenny@nd.edu 


Friday, April 9, 2010 The Observer  NEWS page 9 
Offshore leasing investigated 
GAO report reviews environmental effect of sales 


Associated Press 
ANCHORAGE — The federal Minerals Management Service in Alaska has been a target for law­suits that claim it hasn’t properly considered the environmental effects of offshore petroleum lease sales. A report by the Government Accountability Office concludes there’s a reason why. 
The investigative arm of Congress said MMS did not pro­vide consistent policy to guide staff members in environmental reviews of petroleum drilling, leaving it vulnerable to litigation and allegations of scientific mis­conduct. 
The report released Wednesday said information within the Alaska region was selectively shared. Reports sub­mitted by industry that contained both proprietary and nonpropri­etory information, and that should have been available to environmental analysts, were withheld. Managers told the GAO that circulating reports on a “need-to-know” basis allowed them to protect proprietary information. 
In its official response, the agency promised to do better, but environmental groups long frus­trated with the MMS seized on the report as proof that the agency has made poor decisions in conducting lease sales in sen­sitive Arctic waters. 
“The report highlights the inconsistencies with the way the Minerals Management Service in Alaska has conducted its envi­ronmental analysis,” said Mike LeVine, an attorney for Oceana, which has challenged the validity of leases sold in the Beaufort and Chukchi seas. 
Decisions on offshore lease sales are guided by the National Environmental Policy Act, a 1969 law that requires agencies to consider the environmental impacts of their proposed actions. 
Interior Department policy directs agencies to prepare handbooks on how to implement the law. MMS did not develop a handbook, citing in part the agency’s small size. 
“Managers in the Alaska OCS Region told us that they rely on institutional knowledge of expe­rienced staff to help new staff learn the process,” the report said. The GAO found gaps in that institutional knowledge: Only two of 11 Alaska environmental assessment staff members inter­viewed in May 2009 had been in the office more than 3½ years. 
Without strong guidelines, MMS regions varied in what con­stituted significant environmen­tal effect. Alaska officials told auditors that they would not use explicit “significance criteria” because criteria are hard to develop. 
A basic tenet of Oceana and other environmental groups is that too little is known about Alaska wildlife to allow drilling to begin. There are endangered whales that swim far off the coast, ice seals that spend much of their lives in snow lairs or below ice, and walruses spread over international boundaries and thousands of square miles. 
The agency approved lease sales anyway, said Brendan Cummings of the Center for Biological Diversity, which sued to halt an MMS five-year leasing plan. 
“The report reaffirms what we have been saying all along: The Arctic is a very sensitive and understudied area, and there is no rational basis for concluding that impacts from oil develop­ment will not be significant.” 
Levine said MMS has not ful­filled its basic obligation under NEPA. 
“They’re saying that given the little we know about the ocean, it’s difficult to figure out whether what we’re doing is having a sig­nificant effect or not,” LeVine said. 
MMS Alaska spokesman John Callahan said Thursday that the agency is taking steps to put the GAO recommendations in place. The GAO report addressed Alaska’s Bristol Bay, but Callahan said offshore frontier areas need additional explo­ration and analysis before other areas are offered for leasing. 


Saint Mary’s to host Little Sibs Weekend 
By ALISON MEAGHER 
News Writer 
This weekend, the Saint Mary’s College Residence Hall Association (RHA) will be hosting Little Sibs Weekend, which gives Saint Mary’s stu­dents a chance to show their little siblings life at the College. 
“Lil Sibs Weekend is a fun event which gives the younger brothers and sisters of Saint Mary’s students an opportunity to visit the cam­pus,” Kady Shea, RHA co ­advisor, said. “Siblings are given the chance to hang out and stay overnight with their 
older sib to get a little glimpse of college life.” 
Little Sibs of all ages will be attending the event. Siblings must be over the age of three and male siblings must be under the age of 12 to stay in the residence halls. 
“There is no better way to inspire the younger genera­tion to pursue high academic achievement then to show them the opportunities they can have,” Leslie Robinson, co-advisor of RHA, said. 
Check in begins at 4 p.m. and is followed by an ice cream social for the whole family beginning at 8 p.m. 
Students and siblings will have breakfast between 9 
a.m. and 11 a.m. Saturday in the Noble Family Dining Hall. A County Fair on the Library Green begins at noon and includes inflatables, tug of war, crafts, a petting zoo, a magician and a clown. Lunch will be served at the event. 
After dinner Saturday night, the movie “Barnyard” will be shown in Carroll Auditorium. 
The weekend ends with breakfast and Mass Sunday morning. 
More than 160 little Siblings are registered to attend this weekend. 
Event planning began in October. Saint Mary’s sopho­mores Catherine Moore and Andrea Firth organized the event with various members of the RHA board. 
“This year, we have even changed the pricing of Lil Sibs weekend so that more people can become involved,” Robinson said. “We now offer three packages at different price ranges, so that all stu­dents can have a Lil Sibs weekend that is more catered towards their needs.” 
Contact Alison Meagher at ameagh01@saintmarys.edu 


page 10 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, April 9, 2010 
Friday, April 9, 2010 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 11 
Parole oversight leads to death of teen girl 


Associated Press 
SACRAMENTO, Calif. — Parole officers should have done a better job watching a paroled California sex offender, but closer scrutiny may not have stopped the murder of one teenage girl and the assault of another woman, a draft report released Thursday said. 
Even if suspect John Albert Gardner III had been sent back to prison for one of his repeated parole viola­tions, he was unlikely to have qualified as a sexually violent predator, members of the California Sex Offender Management Board said. 
The board softened lan ­guage in the draft report that contradicted previous statements from mental health officials who said Gardner would have been strongly considered for com­mitment to a mental health hospital. 
Gov. Arnold Schwarzenegger asked the 17 -member board of law enforcement officials, vic­tims and treatment providers to investigate why Gardner was classified as low -risk and not punished for the seven parole viola­tions. 
The board began dis ­cussing the report Thursday. Its final report to the gover­nor is due by the end of the month. 
Gardner, 30, has pleaded not guilty to murdering 17­year-old Chelsea King of Poway, whose body was found in a park last month, and to the attempted rape of another woman in December. 
He is being investigated but has not been charged in the death of 14 -year-old Amber Dubois of Escondido, who disappeared in February 2009. 
The report pointed out that those crimes occurred after Gardner has been released from parole and was under no formal super­vision. 
Even while Gardner was on parole, “it is unlikely that a revocation would have changed anything with respect to the crimes that Gardner is now charged with committing,” the report said. 
However, it acknowledged that parole agents had failed to review whether Gardner should have been reclassi­fied as a high-risk offender after he was found living too close to a school and day­care center while on parole. 
They also should have immediately required him to move farther away instead of letting him live nearby for nearly two years, the report said. 
His location could have been enough to send Gardner back to prison, but the parole board decided to keep him on parole for the remainder of his three-year term, which ended in 2008. 
Authorities also could have sought parole revocation after Gardner was cited for possessing less than an ounce of marijuana in 2008, the report said. 
“There was an opportunity to potentially violate his parole,” said board member Pamela King of the San Bernardino County Public Defender’s Office. “They had that opportunity for an extended amount of time and they chose not to vio­late.” 
The report was prepared by Deputy Attorney General Janet Neeley and Robert Ambroselli, director of the state Division of Adult Parole Operations, which supervised Gardner for three years after his release from prison in 2005. Gardner spent five years in prison for molesting a 13­year-old neighbor girl in 2000. 
Most of Gardner’s parole violations were considered technical, including four for letting the battery on his ankle bracelet run low and one for missing a meeting with his parole officer. 
Other violations surfaced later, including his use of a social networking Web site. 
The report called on the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation to devise new policies for deciding which offenders should be banned from the Internet and better ways to track vio­lations. 
The 19-page draft report said Gardner would not like­ly have been classified as a sexually violent predator and been sent to a state mental hospital because he did not have a diagnosed mental disorder and the molestation he committed in 2000 involved a victim he knew, not a stranger. 
Still, the report said California should provide treatment to sex offenders in prison and after their release, and follow the model of other states by requiring sex offenders to periodically undergo poly­graph tests. 
In addition, there should be more money for local law enforcement to help super­vise offenders, and better communication with local agencies to catch potential violations, several of which were missed in the Gardner case, the report said. 
It also questions whether tracking Gardner ’s move ­ments with an electronic device after he was released from parole supervision would have made a differ­ence. It cites research that GPS tracking can help solve crimes but rarely prevents them. “There is no crystal ball and you cannot prevent every crime from occurring,” King said. 


The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 12 Friday, April 9, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
The Independent, Daily Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 

Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 sports@nd.edu 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 pcoveney@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Joseph McMahon Allan Joseph Molly Madden Chris Masoud Carly Landon Luke Mansour Graphics Viewpoint Jaclyn Espinoza Michelle Maitz Scene Adriana Pratt 
The benefits of religious debate on campus 

Wednesday’s God Debate brought two extreme view­points to the University to engage an important question: the existence of God. 
Yet the debate’s presence on campus has garnered con­troversy as members of the Notre Dame community ques­tioned the role of this sort of discussion at a Catholic uni­versity, and because tickets sold out before many students could get their hands on them. 
Christopher Hitchens, a well-known anti-theist, and con­servative Catholic writer Dinesh D’Souza wrestled with the question of faith in the debate titled “Is Religion the 
Problem?” The two intellectuals have a rep­utation for combative viewpoints. 
Although some University advertising por­trayed the debate as brash and antagonistic, it turned out to be just the opposite. The God Debate fulfilled its goal of fostering open, intellectual dialogue, and debaters 
used reason and science rather than rheto­ric and emotion to drive their arguments, avoiding any debate over actual Christian scripture and practice. 
But the real asset of this kind of debate on campus is not the debate between the academics themselves but rather the discussion it provoked among students, professors and other members of the Notre Dame community. 
The fact that students sought out tickets and criticized the University for the lack of available seats indicates that the student body is already engaged in the kind of intellec­tual dialogue that the God Debate furthered. Those in attendance appeared very receptive and respectful of both speakers. 
The University has an important role as a Catholic insti­tution, but it is also an institution of higher learning. The God Debate is the kind of conversation for which Notre Dame should be a forum. 
Although Hitchens and D’Souza disagreed, both stuck to fact and theory to support their arguments. In this way, the debate was informative and thought-provoking, rather than pointlessly stirring up emotional rhetoric. 
But students should not take either side of the debate as presented by Hitchens or D’Souza at face value. 
The enthusiasm these debaters display shows that this is an important, but contested issue, and one that students should form their own opinion about by becoming knowl­edgeable. The presenters give an introduction to extremes, not a comprehensive view. Students will have to work their 
way along the spectrum as they learn more about the positions to form their own opinion, which will probably be closer to the middle ground than the views expressed by Hitchens and D’Souza. 
To the credit of these two figures, their criti­cism of each others’ arguments was professional 
and intelligent. When personal attacks were made, they were made in the form of offhand jokes and were taken in stride by both sides. Both Hitchens and D’Souza recognized that it was more important to keep the issue itself at the forefront, and we applaud them for not letting personal attacks overshadow the opportunity for dialogue. 
As students at a Catholic University, we naturally grapple with contentious issues — the death penalty, abortion and premarital sex, for example. What we should take away from the God Debate is that not only is it important to dis­cuss contentious issues with those who disagree, but the manner in which we do it is just as important. 
Seek productive discussion, use facts to support your assertions and be respectfully critical of the opposing view, but also courageously stand up for what you believe in. These are all crucial lessons to be learned from this event. 
LETTER TO THE EDITOR 
Recommend bands that need it 
So, we know that no one reads the Scene section, so a lot of the absurdly misguided movie reviews and terrible music recommendations have gone by unnoticed and uncommented upon. But the absurd recommendation of supposedly obscure electropop bands ground our gears. There are electropop bands that actually deserve wide­spread recognition, not the wholesale Postal Service knockoff Owl City or a band that’s been featured in a blockbuster movie’s soundtrack. And are you seriously imploring us to “tap” tracks by international dance sensa­tion La Roux who is in the top 40 in at least eight differ­ent countries? Give us a break. 
For your perusal, here are 50 electropop bands that are more deserving of recognition and esteem for you to “tap.” These are bands that are not popular but deserve to be, so we won’t be listing bands that are good but already have enough popularity like MGMT, Passion Pit, Animal Collective, etc. 
Hot Chip, Goldfrapp, Cut Copy, Crystal Castles, Ladytron, Air, Kleerup, Bat For Lashes, The Bird and the Bee, Black Moth Super Rainbow, M83, School of Seven Bells, F*** Buttons, Faded Paper Figures, STS9, Fol Chen, Four Tet, Free the Robots, Freezepop, Gameboy/Gamegirl, Hercules and Love Affair, High Places, jj, The xx, LCD Soundsystem, Neon Indian, Of Montreal, Panda Bear, Persephone?s Bees, Portishead, Yelle, RJD2, Dan Deacon, Royksopp, The Ruby Suns, Small Sins, Throw Me the Statue, Tiga, Empire of the Sun, Fischerspooner, Little Dragon, Memory Cassette, Prefuse 73, Boards of Canada, Yuksek, Annie, Anamanaguchi, FM Belfast, OH SNAP!! and Santogold. 
To actually receive an education (read: not top 200 hits) in great music (not just electropop, but literally every genre), please tune in to WVFI on Monday nights at mid­night to listen to the Electric Boogaloo, the greatest radio show to ever grace the netwaves of Notre Dame. 
Mychal Stanley 
Anthony Logan 
Michael Cianciulli 
seniors March 29 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Patriotism is your conviction that this country is superior to all other countries because you were born in it.” 
George Bernard Shaw Irish dramatist 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The important thing is this: to be able at any moment to sacrifice what we are for what we could become.” 
Charles Du Bos French critic 
The Observer 
Viewpoint

Friday, April 9, 2010 page 13 
All the Pope’s Men 

In 1974 Richard Nixon resigned from the presidency as a result of his role in a widespread cover-up of the criminal activities that his government had participated in over the course of his presidency. 
While the Watergate scandal exemplified corrup­tion and created a distrust of our fed­eral government, it also exemplified one of the great things about the 


Bob Kessler 
American political system: accounta-The 17th bility. The crook Grade that ordered the cover-up had no choice but to resign. 
Over the past month it has been reported that the Pope and other lead­ers of our Church have been similarly involved in a widespread cover-up of criminal activities that members of the priesthood have been participating in over the past 60 years (and probably much longer). The circumstances sur­rounding the priestly cover-up, howev­er, are much more troubling than those of Watergate not only because the original behavior is so much more heinous, but also because the leaders at the top are an important source of moral foundation for a billion people in our world. 
Currently I am working as a teacher in China through a Catholic organiza­tion, and before coming here I had to take “Creating a Safe Environment for Children” training. This training included several videos of interviews with sexual predators that described their tactics to make sexual advances towards children or to get themselves alone with children. 
Those of you that have seen these videos certainly remember how appalling they are. One man describes how he worked at a roller rink and how he told all the parents, “look how safe our roller rink is, no parents feel like they need to be here” and he went on to describe what he would do when he held children on his lap. Another man left pornographic magazines where children could see them, and would ask children what they thought of these magazines in order to begin his pursuit. 
I believe that men like this are sick and dangerous, and that they should be locked away in the coldest and darkest prison cell imaginable so that they can’t possibly come into contact with children while they await their long journey to hell. Until recently I believed that reasonable people would agree with me in this assessment, but if we are to believe The New York Times (which I do) it appears that our Pope and other leaders of our church seemingly believe that the sexual abuse of children is no big deal. 
Reading these reports about the widespread sexual abuse problems that our church is undergoing disgust­ed me. It’s one thing that a handful 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Furthering the argument for Atheism 
I am hoping we can continue this debate about the credibility of athe­ism and religion. I was hoping to ask my question about what authority the Bible has today, considering that it is supposed to be the Word of God, yet is clearly written by men seeking to further their agenda of repressing women and telling false tales. Such an example is the story of Jesus kick­ing the merchants out of the temple, which was explained to me in my Fundamentals of Theology class as entirely impossible since he would have been murdered on the spot for such behavior. Some may argue that the Bible has to be reinterpreted for each generation and each group of people, yet doesn’t this picking-and­choosing behavior disagree with the theory that it is the Word of God? How can we reconcile these con­cerns? 
I also wanted to present my count­er to Dr. D’Souza’s assertion that morality cannot be a reasonable product of the evolution of humans. He described that altruistic behavior which does not directly benefit us does not make sense in light of what evolution would be more likely to produce. According to him, selfish­ness would be the best survival mechanism for humans. I disagree. Humans underwent a transition many years ago from small groups of hunter-gatherers to settle into agri­cultural societies. This creation of long-lasting societies necessitated the development of a moral code to ensure the society would prosper. An example is the members of society agreeing to not rob each other’s houses. If each person took interest in theft, then the members of the society would have to invest resources and time into protecting themselves against crime. Rather than wasting a tremendous amount of resources protecting oneself, the members of the community agree to not commit crimes. Today this atti­tude persists, where only a small percentage of the population and are often punished for such behavior. 
In addition, this altruistic behavior is most apparent in the existence and proliferation of people with genetic diseases, some of which are deadly or debilitating. Evolution on Darwin’s terms argues that such people should not live long nor reproduce, yet clearly something about human nature and technology has allowed these people to do just the opposite. Therefore I argue that morality is a product of evolution because living in societies is the better way for humans to reproduce and expand our territory, and we do not require a divine provider of morals to explain this. I do recognize that when two different societies do battle, the vic­tor is not determined by the strength of the moral code, but by the number of fighters and technology. 
I want to extend my utmost grati­tude to the coordinators of this event, as well as to Christopher Hitchens and Dinesh D’Souza for an absolutely astounding debate. However, for anyone seeking the best answer to all of the questions one can have on this topic, I highly rec­
ommend Douglas Adams’ “The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Galaxy.” For anyone unwilling to read the book, the answer is 42. 
Deborah Olmstead 
junior April 7 
(OK, more than a handful) of priests practiced this abhorrent behavior, but it’s a completely different (and more disturbing) problem that Pope Benedict and other Church leaders were seemingly involved in cover-ups stretching from Munich to Milwaukee that not only protected child-abusing priests from law enforcement, but allowed some of them to continue working with children in a priestly capacity 
Aren’t we supposed to look to priests and Church leaders for moral guid­ance? Isn’t the primary purpose of religion to create a moral system that allows humans to live together harmo­niously? How are the rest of us sup­posed to understand the difference between right and wrong if the lead­ers of our religion, the religion of one billion people, did not understand that these priests needed to be removed from the priesthood and sent to prison? How did Cardinal Ratzinger not understand the severity of these crimes? 
The great success of Watergate is that it proved our political system works. While it certainly uncovered a disconcerting web of corruption and criminal behavior, it also proved that our system has the capacity to remove a president that can no longer credi­bly lead our country because of his activities. The problem with the Catholic religious system is that it has no such mechanism. I believe that the Pope is no longer able to credibly lead our religion because of his complicity in this cover-up and his continued refusal to address the allegations in a forthright manner, but even if every Catholic agreed with my assessment, we have no ability to force a change. 
The great travesty of all this is that because the scandal has now engulfed the Pope, it unfortunately impacts all of the men that serve under him. In the same way that American’s trust of our government was thrown into question as a result of Watergate, our trust of the Church and the institution of the priesthood is now in jeopardy because of the actions (and inactions) of the Pope and other leaders. Catholics should therefore demand that this Pope resign from his position not only because he now lacks a credi­ble moral basis for his leadership, but more importantly because his continu­ing role as leader of the church threatens to destroy the foundation of our trust in the Priesthood and gener­al opinions and perceptions of all the good men working under him world­wide. 
Bob Kessler is a 2009 graduate currently working as an English teacher in China. He is the writer of Things Notre Dame Students Like, and you can read more of his work at www.the17thgrade.com. He can be contacted at bob020787@gmail.com 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Exploring only human sexuality 
In response to Professor Fuentes who wrote “Just the Facts” (April 8), the fact that homosexual activity occurs in other animals does not give us an appropriate context for discussing human sexuality. 
Humans are different than animals in very significant ways. Humans have a sense of transcendence or religion, a sense of the distant future, a sense of self-awareness and an ability to think abstractly. Animals, including our closest rela­tives like the Bonobo and the Chimpanzee, simply do not have these things. But probably the most important difference regarding this topic is our (human’s) sense of consequences and our ability to differentiate right and wrong. 
Humans, unlike other animals, have ethics and morality. Simply because other animals commit certain acts does not give us a foundation upon which we can discuss the appropriateness for humans to commit those same acts. The fact that cannibalism occurs in Bonobo communities should not affect how humans view an act of cannibalism among humans. Similarly, the fact that monogamy is favored among wolves and foxes should not affect how humans view monoga­mous relationships among humans. 
In order to foster the conversation regarding human sexuality and sexual orien­tation, only facts about humans and human relationships should be conveyed. 
Michael O’Connor 
senior Keough Hall April 7 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 
Scene

page 14 Friday, April 9, 2010 

By ALEX KILPATRICK 
Assistant Scene Editor 
It’s the spring concert everyone’s been waiting for. With talk of every band from MGMT to Girl Talk coming to perform at Notre Dame, it’s finally been confirmed that The Roots will be the big band on campus this weekend. 
Quoted as one of Rolling Stone Magazine’s top 20 greatest live acts in the world, the Philly-based hip hop group has been around since 1993, produced 13 albums, won Grammys, played as the house band on “Late Night with Jimmy Fallon” since March 2009 and recently performed at the 2010 Olympics in Vancouver in February. 
But before The Roots take the stage Saturday night, Mike Posner will open the show. An American singer, songwriter and producer, Posner is known for his high energy sold out shows, as well as the strong nation­wide buzz from his mix tapes. Although the Michigan native has not yet released his debut album, he has collaborated with such artists as 3OH!3, Kid Cudi, Big Sean, Bun B, One Be Lo and Eric Holljes. 
He worked with Don Cannon and DJ Benzi on “A Matter of Time,” a mix tape he released in early 2009 when he also hired manager Daniel Weisman of Elitaste, Inc. Record producer and DJ Don Cannon hosted the mix tape, while DJ Benzi mixed it. The tape includes guest appearances from Big Sean (a hip hop artist on Kanye West’s record label G.O.O.D. Music), Jackie Chain, Donnis and Eric Holljes. Posner used several samples in the tape, including The Fray’s “Over My Head” in “Still Not Over You,” Electric Light Orchestra’s “Evil Woman” in his own “Evil Woman,” Keziah Jones’ “Pleasure is Kisses” in “Who Knows?” and Beyoncé’s “Halo” in “Halo.” 
After signing a major label deal with J 
Records 
of RCA 
and Sony 
in July 
2009, 
Po sner 
chose to return to Duke 
University, where he is a mem­
ber of Sigma Nu Fraternity and 
is currently recording his 
debut album and touring on 
the weekends. He released 
his second mix tape “One 
Foot Out The Door” on Oct. 
29, 2009. Kid Cudi, Big 
Sean, Bun B, GLC, 3OH!3, 
Freddie Gibbs and XV appeared 
on this sophomoric effort from 
Posner. 
He also sampled from The xx, John Mayer, Ricky Nelson, Miami Horror and Soulja Boy for the new tape. Posner is still working on his debut LP and expects to release it in the late 
summer after performing on all 42 dates of the 2010 Warped Tour. Posner’s well-praised show is sure to be an exciting opener for The Roots Saturday night. 
Contact Alex Kilpatrick at akilpatr@nd.edu 


When I first heard that hip hop had won the student poll for the Student Union Board (SUB) concert, I was con­cerned. Coming from a hip hop fanatic, this may come as a surprise. I love the music; my fears rested with the audi­ence. Since I’ve been at Notre 
Nick Anderson 
Dame, at least two excellent but under-appreciated MCs, Brother Ali 

Assistant Scene
and Devin the 

Editor
Dude, have played shows at Legends to a less than enthusiastic crowd. To see two of my favorite rappers practically beg the audience for some reaction was embarrassing. Even Lupe Fiasco, a rel­atively well-known name, was given a cold reception. 
Granted, this could change if SUB could pull in a huge name. Artists such as Jay-Z, Lil Wayne or the Black Eyed Peas would surely sell out regardless of quality. I resigned myself to another lackluster show. This all changed when The Roots were announced as the headliner. Why? Quite simply, there is no group better at putting on a show. 
The Roots occupy a level of fame just outside of household names. Everyone is aware of someone with whom they are associated, but may struggle to name the group itself. As the house band for “The Late Show” with Jimmy Fallon, they’ve proven consistently to be the best piece of the show. Beyond 
their current comedy gig, The Roots 
appeared in Dave Chappelle’s “Block 
Party” and Jay-Z’s “Fade to Black,” 
with ?uestlove, the group’s drummer 
and founding member, serving as 
musical director for both. Their 
music has shown up in 
“Superbad,” “Entourage” 
and “Men in Black.” 
Even toddlers may rec­
ognize them following 
an appearance on 
Nickelodeon’s trippy 
“Yo Gabba Gabba.” The Roots are 
one of the few 
unique acts in 
hip hop. Their 
most obvious 
departure from 
traditional form is 
the presence of a full 
band. Beyond an MC, 
drummer, guitarist, bassists 
and keyboardist, they also fea­
ture another percussion­
ist as well as a 
sousaphone . 
The band 
leader, ?uest­
love, man ­
ages the 
group from 
his drum set 
in the back. 
Their swag­
ger is unde­
niable and 
derived from 
skill instead of exaggerated street  Blackthought, the group’s MC, has the  
cred or youthful bravado.  classic flow of a battle rapper but is  
More importantly, their music is  perfectly at ease singing hooks. As a  
unique. Besides using samples spar- whole, The Roots embody the social  
ingly,  a  full band produces an ener­ and musical potential commercial  
getic, organic sound  hip-hop near-universally lacks.  
r e m i n i s c e nt o f  As for Saturday night, The Roots  
garage rock. They  will put on a hell of a show. They eas­ 
avoid falling into  ily live up to the ir ti tl e as one of  
hip-hop’s com- Rolling Stone’s top live acts. Their  
mon criticisms  shows quickly transform into a show- 
of material- case of not only the group’s impres­ 
i sm , v i o- sive discography, but also of individ­ 
l e n c e o r  ual talents and creativity. Guitar riffs  
m i s o g y n y.  and strong baselines push the show  
T h e y c a n  towards rock; animated percussion  
discuss poli­ pulls it towards jazz; all while hip- 
tics without  hop provides the central focus. The  
s o u n d i n g  show may prove to be extra com- 
preachy, inner  pelling for already established fans  
city life without  w h o h o p e t o h e a r c u t s f r o m t h e  
being exploitive and  upcoming album “How I Got Over.”  
music without sound- Veterans of touring, The Roots will  
i ng i n si n c e r e.  work Saturday’s crowd like the mas­ 
terful musicians they are. Whether  
you’ve listened to their albums or  
not, the show will absolutely floor  
you. There is literally no other group  
capable of putting on a show like  
them. Saturday night there will be no  
rock, hip-hop, pop or country fans.  
Instead, Stepan will be packed with  
music fans seeing some of the true  
greats.  
The views expressed in this column  
are those of the author and not neces­ 
sarily those of The Observer. Nick can be  
reached at nanders5@nd.edu  

JACLYN ESPINOZA l Observer Graphic 
The Observer 
Scene

Friday, April 9, 2010 page 15 

A young actor who does excel is Coleman as the adorable, preco­cious younger brother who can’t wait to spend the summer with his father. You might recognize him from “Martian Child” or “Post Grad.” He succeeds where Cyrus fails at expressing true grief. Coleman brought the best out in the other actors especially in heart wrenching scenes with Hemsworth and Kinnear. 
As basically the only adult in the film Kinnear does alright. He has proven himself to be a fantastic actor (“Little Miss Sunshine”) but this film is not one to showcase his abilities. He does an average job with average material. 
It’s true the film’s failure is not completely Cyrus’ fault. The story­line itself has problems. For one, there are too many plot points for such a short film, a common problem in adapting a book to the big screen. A church fire sets the backdrop of the entire film, but a sud­den illness out of nowhere causes the last third of the film to feel like a completely new story. Unfortunately, not even beautiful shots of the Georgia coastline can salvage the poor screenplay. 
In the end, “The Last Song” does an okay job at exploring first love and the tenuous relationship between a father and his daughter. No, this film won’t be Miley’s swan song — she is after all a huge star — but it should make her consider taking back that comment about retiring from music soon, or at least get acting lessons. 
Enter the theater with caution because for all its faults, “The Last Song” is still a tearjerker and enjoyable chick flick. 
Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrar1@nd.edu 
By CAITLIN FERRARO 
Assistant Scene Editor 
It is always difficult to see a good book poorly adapted into a film. Director Julie Ann Robinson made a valiant effort with Nicholas Sparks’ “The Last Song,” but the cast, led by Miley Cyrus, was not able to successfully pull off this adaptation. Disney’s queen bee tried to step out of her comfort zone by playing a serious character, but Cyrus simply doesn’t cut it. 
Ronnie (Cyrus) and her little brother Jonah (Bobby Coleman) are sent to Georgia for the summer to live with their father. She is a rebellious teenager who resents her father (Greg Kinnear), for her parents’ divorce. She expresses this anger by sporting some punk-rock chic outfits, refusing to go to college, shoplifting and making surly faces. 
While her father desperately fights to regain her love and trust, he also tries to reignite her passion for playing the piano. Music was the thing that connected the two when she was younger, and Ronnie was something of a child prodigy. However, what ultimately pulls Ronnie out of her shell is clean-cut volleyball player Will (Liam Hemsworth) who sees something in the angry teen. The two quickly fall in love. In fact, it’s a bit too quickly — but that’s what cheesy montages are for. 
Will can see what Ronnie’s father sees — that Ronnie really has a heart of gold. She is a protective big sister and befriends a girl in town who needs help. Furthermore, she appoints herself savior of sea turtle eggs threatened by evil raccoons on the beach. Thus, Ronnie’s character does have depth. 
Cyrus gave it her best shot, but she is simply lackluster. While she does have the star power to draw attention to the film, she just does­n’t have the talent to be headlining a drama. The film is an emotion­al one that tackles huge issues including first love, a secret crime, ill­ness and death. Cyrus is not convincing amidst all of the melodrama and should stick to the slapstick comedy of “Hannah Montana.” 
Hemsworth’s portrayal of the pretty boy who has a sad secret is decent. He has some especially cute moments with little brother Jonah. But his character is not developed enough to show whether or not the Australian newcomer has a future in acting. His more immediate future consists of him as Cyrus’ arm candy and new boyfriend in real life. Inevitably, some of that chemistry translates onto the screen and the couple is relatively believable as two teenagers in love. 


By RYAN RAFFIN 
Scene Writer 
This is a truly weird album. This isn’t to say that the British post-punk quartet known as These New Puritans were ever a by-the-numbers band, but “Hidden,” their sophomore full-length is something else. 
Though their prior album was driven mostly by the rhythm section with little emphasis on guitars, “Hidden” takes that initiative to a whole new level. Guitars are almost entirely absent and a wide swath of new instrumentation is introduced in their place. A bas­soon is heard on far more than one song, and even more surprisingly, it doesn’t sound out of place. The closest comparison in terms of stylistic departure, if not musical content, is Radiohead’s “Kid A.” Like that clas­sic, “Hidden” is the work of a band utterly unconcerned with commercial success and it too succeeds all the more because of it. 
From woodwind sections to samples of swords being drawn to Castlevania-esque keyboards, the group seems to have turned away no idea in the composition of this album, no matter how far out there. Make no mistake, this is an album that was composed — there is far too much going on at any one moment to say “Hidden” was simply performed, as most are. 
Opening track “Time Xone” is instrumental, consist­ing entirely of horns being played at a funereal tempo. It serves as a brief introduction to the album, lulling the listener until the song fades out and the first single “We Want War” kicks in. And does it ever kick. Over seven minutes in length, it features a militaristic drumbeat, keyboards and frontman Jack Barnett’s cryptic, insis­tent singing. What is so incredible about the song is that it doesn’t feel as long as it is, which is probably the best compliment a song can get. 
The first two songs are indicative of what is to come on the rest of the album, which seems to be split between the breathy, horn heavy tracks and the rhyth­mic, stomping ones. Falling into the latter category is the excellent “Attack Music,” featuring a choir and samples of breaking glass over a chanted refrain. Again, anything goes on “Hidden.” 
The rampant experimentation might be a turnoff for some listeners, which is understandable. These New Puritans almost undoubtedly intended it to be a chal­lenging listen. There are points where the album seems almost too scattered in its approach — but not quite. The stylistic diversity rarely hurts the album if it were focused on a single aspect, like sampling, the album would be boring beyond belief. 
Still, the songs on “Hidden” aren’t uniformly bizarre. “Fire-Power” recalls the relatively straightforward post-punk of “En Papier” off their debut album and is one of the only songs where guitar is present. The opening verse of “Orion” even approaches catchiness, with frontman Jack Barnett crooning over hits from a bass drum. “White Chords” could be a Joy Division B-side. Throughout the 11 songs, the beats frequently recall those heard in modern hip-hop, although certain­ly not in a context found anywhere near the top 40. 
These New Puritans’ willingness and ability to com­bine vastly disparate influences into an organic whole is ultimately their biggest strength. 
“Hidden” is a relentlessly ambitious album that star­tles with every musical left turn. Is it an easy listen? By no means. Is rewarding and original? Absolutely. After a few listens to the whole album it becomes easier to pick out the subtleties of each individual track. Once everything has sunk in, it’s not difficult to see how truly excellent “Hidden” is. After hearing this album, one can conclude that the band’s name is almost certainly a joke, because nothing about this music is puritanical. 

Contact Ryan Raffn at rraffn@nd.edu 

page 16 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Friday, April 9, 2010 
MLB 

Aaron laments hitters’ home run obsession 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Hank Aaron watches games these days and is perplexed as batter after batter tries to jack pitches out of the ballpark, obsessed with the long ball that made Hammerin’ Hank famous. 
“I don’t think they understand the role of what they need to be doing,” Aaron said Thursday dur­ing a visit to The Associated Press. “I’m not saying all of them, but I think some players need to understand that they’re never going to hit 50 home runs or 45 home runs (a year). They’ve got to learn how to hit the ball to the opposite field and do the little things to help their ballclub win championships.” 
He prefers not to discuss steroids, a subject that has fol­lowed him since Barry Bonds approached and surpassed Aaron’s total of 755 home runs. But he’s willing to talk about his likes and dislikes regarding the way baseball has changed since he retired as a player after the 1976 season. 
It bothers him when he sees today’s players get themselves into trouble, especially in the celebrity-obssessed glare that illuminates baseball and other public professions. He tries to counsel rookies and other young­sters to stay on the right path. 
“The ones that think that they can have a shortcut in life, that’s when they’re going to get them­selves in trouble, no matter who you are,” he said. 
“No one can tell me that you can consistently hit 60 and 70 homers, because the league is not made that way. This is the big leagues and every team has the best players they can,” he added without prompting. “If you hit 30 home runs, that’s fine, but don’t think that you will hit 70 home runs because there is no shortcut. Eventually, things are going to catch up with you.” 
Now 76, Aaron’s a bit pudgier than in his playing days but still has the same broad smile, the same large, meaty hands that pitchers feared from 1954-76 as he vaulted past Babe Ruth, Willie Mays, Mickey Mantle, Ted Williams, Jimme Foxx, Eddie Mathews and Mel Ott on the home-run list. 
He held the career record from 1974 until 2007, when Bonds made 762 the new 755, a record some in the baseball world find difficult to accept because of alle­gations Bonds used steroids. 
Aaron never complained. He even recorded a video message played on the stadium scoreboard the night Bonds passed him. 
A senior vice president with the Braves, the former home run king is preparing these days for Atlanta’s Arthritis Walk on May 
22. He’s overcome knee osteoarthritis with Synvisc-One, a medication that’s relieved his pain and which he’s promoting in the run-up to the event. 
“I was kind of embarrassed at first, walking around with my grandson, trying to play basket­ball with him and going out with my friends trying to play golf. I couldn’t even throw a baseball to my grandson,” he said. “Rather than having surgery, I decided to try some other things. After I got my shot, I had no problem with my leg. I haven’t had any prob­lems at all.” 
He doesn’t know if the leg pain came from hitting the wall too many times. Or perhaps hitting the dirt. He remembers very well facing Bob Gibson and Don Drysdale and Juan Marichal. 
“I didn’t hit the ground that much, but I got my share of knockdowns,” he said. 
Back in Aaron’s day, it was rare for batters to charge mounds. Now, hitters sometimes glare if a pitch is even a baseball card’s width inside. 
As he watches these days, Aaron misses the dominating pitchers of his era. 
“Most of those pitchers, when they got into the seventh, eighth and ninth innings, they didn’t look back and see who was warming up in the bullpen. They usually could finish what they started. And so I was happy to know that I played in that era where those guys were able to do those things,” he said. “Pitching has changed. I think that if you talked to the average manager and want to know what his phi­losophy is as far as pitching, he’ll tell most of his pitchers before the season starts, ‘You give me five good innings and I can bring somebody out there to relieve you.”’ 
The biggest annoyance is the length of games. 
“It bothers me one inning can last, I don’t know, 25 minutes or 30 minutes, when they keep bringing relief pitchers out and the catchers keep going out talk­ing. That bothers me more than anything.” 
Stepping out is another pet peeve. 
“They’re supposed to be in the batters’ box and be ready to hit,” he said. “And the pitchers ought to be ready to pitch.” 
He’d like to see more day games, so parents can bring their kids and grandparents can take their grandkids. But he under­stands why most games are at night. 
“What are going to do with your advertisers? There’s going to be griping,” he said. 
PGA TOUR 
Woods fires 68 in return 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Georgia — Tiger Woods shot a 4-under-par 68 Thursday, his best score ever on the first day of the Masters despite a five-month layoff. 
Returning from a self-imposed exile and trying to rebuild his reputation after a sex scandal, Woods quickly showed his game was still in good shape. 
His round included eagles at the eighth and 15th holes, the first time he’s had multiple eagles in an Augusta round. 
Also, Woods had never started with a score lower than 70 until Thursday, when he put himself just two strokes behind the sur­prising leader, 50-year-old Fred Couples. 
“Why play if you don’t think you’re going to win?” Woods said. “If I don’t think I can win, I won’t enter the event.” 
The world’s No. 1 player is off to a good start for his fifth green jacket, and his score could have been even lower. He lipped out four putts. 
Still, no complaints after being away from the game so long and enduring plenty of ridicule over his personal life, which fell apart after a Thanksgiving night car crash led to revelations of multiple extramarital affairs. 
Despite his off-the-course troubles, he heard nothing but cheers from the Augusta National fans. 
“It was unbelievable, the whole day,” Woods said. “The people, I haven’t heard them cheer this loud in all my years coming here. It certainly helped keep my spirits up.” 
No longer sporting the goatee he had worn during practice, Woods bounced back from his first bogey with two precise shots that set up a 10-footer for eagle at the par-5 eighth. When the ball dropped in the cup, patrons rose in unison to salute the disgraced golfer, who deliv­ered his first fist pump of the day. 
But this round likely will be remembered for a shot Woods pulled off at the next hole. He yanked his drive left of the fair­way, leaving him with a treach­erous 5-iron that had to be hooked around the pine trees to reach an uphill green he could barely see. 
Woods ripped into the ball with a powerful swing, then ran out into the fairway to get a look as it skidded onto the green, pulling to a stop about 12 feet above the hole. He rolled in the birdie putt, which put him on the leaderboard for the first time, just two strokes behind. 
After one of the lip-outs came on an eagle attempt at 13, he rolled in an 8-foot putt at the 15th. 
The gallery around the first tee was sparse 30 minutes before Woods was scheduled to start. By the time he arrived, it had swelled to 10 deep all the way round. Woods smiled and touched the brim of his cap, acknowledging the cheers when his name was announced. 

“Make us proud!” a fan yelled. 
Not that he totally escaped his personal troubles inside the gates of Augusta National. 
A small plane flew over the course pulling a banner that jabbed the golfer: “Tiger: Did you mean bootyism?” — a refer­ence to Woods’ claim that part of the reason for his troubles was that he left his faith, Buddhism. Some people in the stands laughed and pulled out binoculars to get a closer look. Later, another banner said: “Sex Addict? Yeah. Right. Sure. Me Too!” 
Woods largely lived up to his vow to be more responsive to the crowd and try to keep his emotions in check. He doffed his cap to the fans several times, and they were appreciative. 
“I think the way he’s reacting with the crowd is amazing,” said Jim Moehring, who cheered on Woods in Amen Corner. “He seems to be more relaxed.” 
Until he got to No. 14. Woods’ explosive temper let loose there after an errant iron shot. He slung down his club and let out a scream as he turned away, unwilling to even watch the flight of the ball. 
Couples has won three straight times on the 50-and­over Champions Tour, and that success carried over to Augusta. He had only one bogey the entire day and shot a 32 on the back side. 
“I’m driving it very long and fairly straight, and I’m putting ridiculously well out there,” he said. “Today I made a bunch of 6-and 7-footers on the front nine. That was just a huge boost.” 
Watson, who nearly became the oldest major winner in golf history at last year’s British Open, showed it wasn’t a fluke. He held the lead for a while after shooting 67, tying his best round at Augusta. 
The last time he did it was 20 years ago. Watson closed with a 5-foot birdie putt at the tough 18th hole, set up by a brilliant iron shot that skipped along the right side of the green, caught the ridge and turned back toward the flag. 
Phil Mickelson was among five players who matched Watson’s 67, joined by reigning PGA Championship winner Y.E. Yang, Woods’ playing partner K.J. Choi and England’s Lee Westwood, seeking his first major title. 
Mickelson had a blistering eagle-birdie-birdie stretch start­ing at the par-5 13th, and his score could have been even lower. He missed birdie tries of about 10 feet at No. 16 and a 5­footer at the 18th, but this was still an encouraging start for a two-time Masters winner who has struggled this year. 
“I do love this place,” Mickelson said. “I don’t have to be perfect. I can miss a shot and still recover. It relaxes me when I go down Magnolia Lane.” 
Woods was in the next-to-last group, playing with Choi and Matt Kuchar. It looked as though there might be a rain delay as skies darkened and the wind gusted up to 22 mph (35 kph) ahead of an approaching storm. There were scattered sprinkles, but the front broke up as it passed over Augusta. 
Anthony Kim endured a wild back side on his way to a 68. He started with three straight bogeys, made an eagle at 13, another bogey at the 14th, then closed with three straight birdies. His only par after the turn came at No. 16. Nick Watney also shot a 68. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

If you or someone you care about ATTN: Grad Student-faculty. “Agent Owen has my full has been sexually assaulted, we Spacious 2-bdrm, 2.5 bath home, confidence.”WANTED NOTICES PERSONAL can help. For more information, visit LR, DR, FR, Florida Room. Fenced “Yeah? If that were true you 
Notre Dame's website: yard, 2-car garage. Security. Near wouldn't be standing here talking to SUMMER SALES INTERNSHIP We have two rooms at the Hilton UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? http.csap.nd.edu ND. 262-332-0015. me.” with an energetic start up company. Garden Inn for ND-SMC graduation ——————————————— ——————————————— Must have strong communications, weekend. Do not go it alone. Notre Dame has Bed &amp; bkfast, 2 br 1 full bath; “Did this happen on company computer, and time management many resources in place to assist TICKETS home 10 min. from ND. Any time. property” skills. Benefits include flexible loca-Rooms are available Thursday, you. If you or someone you love Negotiable rate. “It happened on company property, tion and work schedule for 20 self-Friday and Saturday. The Hilton needs confidential support or assis-House 3 bed, 3 bath, new with company property. So, double motivated ND students who enjoy Garden Inn is ideally located on tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at rehab/clean, so close to ND you Call Kay 574-229-6223. jeopardy, we’re fine. team competition. Design experi-SMC campus and right across from 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For can see campus from the yard! ——————————————— “I don’t think -- I don’t think you ence is not necessary but a plus. ND. Rooms offered at their face more information, visit ND's web Email alexrock@rock.com! Molly wouldn’t be friends with understand how double jeopardy Send resume to value. If interested, email fonta-site: ———————————————-Jennifer Aniston. She’d just use her. works.” mmurtaghm@aol.com naricci@mac.com http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu gradrentals.viewwork.com Terrible, no? “Oh, I’m sorry. What is, “we’re fine?” ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 

Friday, April 9, 2010 page 17 
Men’s Division I Tennis ITA Poll 
team points 
1 Virginia 25 2 Ohio State 24 3 Tennessee 23 4 Southern Cal 22 5 Texas 21 6 Florida 20 7 Stanford 19 8 Georgia 18 9 Baylor 17 10 UCLA 16 11 Kentucky 15 12 Texas A&M 14 13 Illinois 13 14 Texas Tech 12 15 California 11 16 Louisville 10 17 Mississippi 9 18 Wake Forest 8 19 North Carolina 7 20 Duke 6 21 Oklahoma 5 22 Washington 4 23 Virginia Tech 3 24 Georgia Tech 2 25 Florida State 1 
Women’s Division III Golf NGCA Coaches Poll 
team  previous  
1  Methodist  1  
2  Gust-Adolphus  3  
3  Wisc- Eau Claire  2  
4  Ill. Wesleyan  8  
5  SAINT MARYS  4  
6  DePauw  6  
7  Amherst  7  
8  Southwestern (Tx.)  12  
9  Olivet  9  
10  George Fox  15  
11  Williams  11  
12  Allegheny  10  
13  Washington-Stl.  5  
14  St. Lawrence  14  
15  Hartburg  13  
16  Hope  16  
17  Centre  21  
18  Birmingham-So.  21  
19  St. Benedict  16  
20  Carleton  19  
21  Wheaton (Ill.)  23  
22  Cortland State  NR  
23  Franklin  18  
24  St. Thomas (Minn.)  20  
25  Piedmont  NR  



around the dial 
NCAA Men’s Frozen Four 
Wisconsin vs. TBA 7 p.m., ESPN 
PGA 

Masters Final Round Coverage 
3:30 p.m. Saturday, CBS 
PGA 

Watson a surprise yet again at Masters 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. — Tom Watson’s week began on 13th green with his son pro­posing to his girlfriend in an elaborately staged surprise that included the chairman of Augusta National. 
His day began standing on top of a stool to get a view of a few old friends hitting cer­emonial shots off the first tee. 
His round began with a pep talk from the groom-to­be, who also happened to be the guy carrying his bag. 
“Come on dad, let’s go out and play a good round of golf,” Michael Watson told him. 
A storybook week deserves a fairytale ending. And who could argue that anyone deserves one more than the man who had one stolen from him last year at Turnberry in a heartbreak heard around the world. 
The odds still are it won’t happen here. For now, though, there’s a senior citi­zen near the top of the leaderboard at the Masters. 
“It doesn’t matter what it is right now,” Watson said. “It matters on Sunday. That’s all that matters. Every player in that field knows that.” 
Let’s not spoil the moment. We all know what’s sup­posed to happen when old nerves meet fast greens. 
But if Turnberry was one 
IN BRIEF 
Attorney: Evidence will exon­erate Steelers star WR Holmes 
ORLANDO, Fla. — An attorney for Pittsburgh Steelers receiver Santonio Holmes says he has mailed Orlando Police investigators evi­dence that will exonerate his client against allegations that he threw a glass at a woman in a nightclub. 
Attorney Adam Swickle refused to say Thursday what the evidence was since it is part of an ongoing investigation. 
Orlando Police Department spokeswoman Barbara Jones also refused to say whether detectives had received anything. 
Anshonae Mills filed a lawsuit last month claiming Holmes threw a glass at her, cutting her above the eye. In the lawsuit, she said Holmes and a police officer intimidated her so she wouldn’t press charges. 
Mills changed her mind, and the case has been reopened by the Orlando police. 
for the aged, why couldn’t this week at Augusta National turn into one for the ages? 
It doesn’t all have to be about Tiger Woods, does it? 
“It’s a long shot for some­body, still, honestly, of our age to do it,” Watson said. “But still, they can do it.” 
If anyone can do it, it’s the gap-toothed wonder who almost gave us one of the great sports stories ever when he came within an easy 2-putt of winning the British Open last year at the age of 59. 
He’s a year older, but not much wiser. He still stub­bornly believes he can play against the kids. 
On this day he played bet­ter than almost all of them, and in the process nearly stole the day from Woods. 
Watson’s 67 matched his best round ever in the Masters, one that came 20 years ago when he was a much younger man and Augusta National was a much different course. He didn’t make a bogey and was a stroke behind the lead of fellow senior tour player Fred Couples. 
All this from a guy who hadn’t made the cut here in eight years and shot 83 the last time he teed it up in the Masters. The same guy who bemoaned at the British that he was nothing more than a ceremonial player here any more. 
Butler inks 33-year old coach Stevens to multi-year contract 
INDIANAPOLIS — Brad Stevens is content to keep coaching the Butler way. 
The 33-year-old coach, who came within a buzzer-beating shot of win­ning the NCAA men’s basketball championship, signed a 12-year deal Thursday that extends through the 2021-22 season. 
Team spokesman Jim McGrath declined to say how much the deal was worth, though Stevens had a total compensation package of $750,000 last season. Athletic director Barry Collier acknowledged Tuesday that Stevens was in line for a pay raise. 
The Bulldogs got the man they wanted to stay. 
“Brad has demonstrated that he’s the right fit for Butler University,” Collier said in a statement. “Our pro­gram has grown under his leadership, and we’re excited about our future under his direction.” 
Jets reportedly close to deal with rival Dolphins’ DE Taylor 
FLORHAM PARK, N.J. — Jason Taylor is dancing with the enemy. 
The free agent linebacker and six-time Pro Bowl pick with the Miami Dolphins met with the New York Jets for a second straight day Thursday as coach Rex Ryan tried to add the NFL's active sacks leader to last sea-son's top-ranked defense. 
“Hopefully we can bring him along for the ride,” linebacker Calvin Pace said. 
“I think it would be a great situa­tion for him.” 
The 35-year-old Taylor, who was in town with his wife, Katina, was expected to take until this weekend at the earliest before deciding on whether to sign with New York. The former “Dancing With the Stars” contestant — he finished runner-up to Kristi Yamaguchi in 2008 — has had a contentious relationship with Jets fans during his 13-year career, 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, April 9, 2010 
NFL 

Meadowlands facility prepares for trial run 

Associated Press 
EAST RUTHERFORD, N.J. — When Mark Lamping talked about a truly soft opening of the New Meadowlands Stadium, the chief executive of the $1.6 billion home for the Giants and Jets wasn’t kidding. 
Fans showing up for a col­lege lacrosse tripleheader on Saturday will see that the concourse around the stadium isn’t complete, the access roads leading into the 82,500­seat facility aren’t finished, and there’s work to be done on some of the concourses and the concession areas in the upper levels. 
And the 4,000 or so people who work at the stadium and have undergone 16 hours of training are going to be work­ing their first game. So they might be as confused as the fans coming to the stadium for the first time. 
“There will be some fumbles and dropped passes like any training camp,” Lamping said before giving a tour of the stadium to about 40 media members Thursday. 
Lamping said the positive aspect to opening the facility some four months ahead of schedule, and holding several concerts and an international soccer game, is it will allow the staff to work boards,” Lamping said. 
The facility, to be called the New Meadowlands Stadium until the Giants and Jets find a title sponsor, is taller and bigger than the adjacent Giants Stadium, which opened in 1976 and served as the dual home of the Jets and Giants since 1984. 
The new stadium, construct­ed in 34 months, can be con­verted from a Giants game to a Jets game in a couple of hours. Buttons can be pushed to change signage from Giants blue to Jets green almost instantaneously. The end zones with the team names can be switched by rolling up two rug sections on the Fieldturf surface. 
Even the outside of the sta­dium can change colors by shining light off the stadium fins. The fins also serve to limit the rain and wind enter­ing the stadium. 
The new stadium, which includes 9,500 club seats and 222 luxury suites, has 1.9 million square feet, about a million more than Giants Stadium. 
The suites are impressive, particularly the 20 units that seat 400 people in the Commissioner Club. The suites range in price from $750,000 to $1 million and 
give the occu­
pants access to 
both teams. 

out the kinks “There will be some The common before the Jets area of the 
fumbles and
and Giants Commissioner’s open the regu-dropped passes Club is impres­lar season in like any sive, with black September. walnut walls 
training camp.” 
The outside of and bamboo the new stadi-floors. The um is metallic, Mark Lamping mezzanine level looking some-New Meadowlands CEO has 7,000 club 
what like an open venetian blind. The inside is spectacular, with fans bound to be impressed by the cozy feeling of the seating and four Jumbotron screens that are 118 feet long and 30 feet high, with each presenting a crystal clear pic­ture from its mid -stadium level. 
“The idea was to put them lower in the bowl than typi­cally where they would be and have them in a location that, no matter where you’re sitting or where the action is, you can always see two video seats. 
For those who 
have the less expensive seats near the top of the stadium, the upper lev­els are high. However, the seats don’t make you feel like you are sitting on the side of a cliff. 
All the concessions, suites and sound systems are tied into a data center in the base­ment of the building. 
Lamping said the demolition of Giants Stadium should be finished by July and the land should be transformed to parking hopefully by the start of the NFL regular season. 


Friday, April 9, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
MLB 

Cabrera’s bat leads Tigers to win over Royals 
Dontrelle Willis returns from mental struggle to earn win; Dodgers sit five starters but still outhit Pirates 
Associated Press 
KANSAS CITY, Mo. — He walked the first batter on four pitches. 
Would Dontrelle Willis’ 10­month struggle to recover from social anxiety and chronic wild­ness blow up in his face the first time out? 
In a word, no. The former two-time National League All-Star walked two batters in the first inning but none over the next five as the Detroit Tigers beat the Kansas City Royals and its shaky bullpen 7-3 Thursday, giving hope that Willis’ troubles may finally be a thing of the past. 
“It was a gritty ballgame early,” said Willis, who had appeared in just 15 games since signing a three-year contract with Detroit in 2008. “They had me on the ropes. But with the encourage­ment of my team I was able to battle, make some good pitches and get us back in the dugout.” 
Miguel Cabrera drove homered and drove in four runs for Detroit. 
In his previous regular-season start June 14, Willis walked a career-high eight batters in just 3 2-3 innings. Then he went on the disabled list the rest of the season with social anxiety disorder. 
If the right-hander can regain the form that made him a star with the Florida Marlins, the Tigers will seem almost certain to contend in the AL Central. 
“Early on, I’ve got to force con­tact,” he said. “I think everybody’s going to have the same approach on me. I think they’re going to wait me out to see if I’m throwing the ball over the plate.” 
Without a doubt, that was Kansas City’s strategy. 
“He wasn’t quite as wild as we expected him to be or as he’s been in some of his past,” said manager Trey Hillman. “He threw enough strikes for us to have to be ready.” 
Cabrera hit a three-run home run on an 0-2 count off Luis Mendoza (0-1) in the eighth, put­ting the Tigers on top 4-2. He added an RBI single in the three-run ninth as the Royals’ bullpen blew a save for the third straight game. 
While losing two of three games in this season-opening series, Royals starters Zack Greinke, Luke Hochevar and Brian Bannister gave up only two earned runs. 
“It’s just a matter of making pitches on quality hitters,” said Hillman. “When you leave pitches out over the plate especially to guys like Cabrera, Magglio (Ordonez) and (Carlos) Guillen, they are going to get you.” 
Willis allowed two runs on seven hits, with two walks and four strikeouts in six innings. 
“He’s got to build on this one,” said manager Jim Leyland. “This one was OK. It wasn’t great, but it was OK. I’ve kind of stayed away from making any fuss one way or the other. Treat him the way you do everybody else. If you do the job, you pitch. I’m excited for him. I’m happy for him. 
“He’s got every teammate pulling as hard as you could pull for everybody. It’s great to see.” 
Cabrera went 4 for 5 with a three-run homer and an RBI sin­gle. In 41 games against the Royals, he’s hitting .363 with 13 home runs and 39 RBIs. 
“This is a good park to hit, this big park,” said Cabrera, who hit the tying home run on Wednesday night. “When you see a big park, you try to use the gaps. That’s an advantage.” 
Dodgers 10, Pirates 2 
The Los Angeles Dodgers didn’t need Manny Ramirez or Andre Ethier, Casey Blake or Russell Martin to finally find a way to beat what is usually one of the majors’ worst teams, the Pittsburgh Pirates. 
Manager Joe Torre simply plugged in a bunch of backups, and a lot of hits followed. 
Ronnie Belliard homered among three extra base hits and drove in four runs, and the Dodgers won 10-2 on Thursday to avoid being swept in a three-game series by the Pirates for the first time in 10 years. 
The Dodgers didn’t start five regulars, including middle-of-the­lineup hitters Ethier (sore left ankle) and Ramirez (day off), but still got 16 hits off four pitchers, including 10 from their No. 1-4 hitters. Reed Johnson doubled among three hits and scored twice, and Matt Kemp, James Loney and Garret Anderson drove in two runs each. 
“They’re an aggressive-hitting team,” Pirates manager John Russell said. “You throw the ball over the middle of the plate, they’re going to make you pay.” 
The Dodgers hadn’t been swept in a three-game series by Pittsburgh since Sept. 4-6, 2000, in Los Angeles. The last such sweep in Pittsburgh was May 31­June 2, 1999, when the Pirates played in Three Rivers Stadium. 
Belliard, making a spot start after losing the second baseman’s job to Blake DeWitt, hit a two-run homer off Paul Maholm (0-1) in the fifth to make it 4-0. Belliard added a run-scoring triple during a breakout four-run seventh against reliever Hayden Penn, huffing and puffing into third. 
Belliard doubled in the ninth, finishing 3 for 5 and a single short of the cycle. 
“I’m not going to play every day, I’m going to come from the bench and sometimes when they need to give the guys off they’re going to put me out there,” said Belliard, who replaced Orlando Hudson at second base late last season. “I’m going to keep work­ing and keep myself strong to help the ballclub.” 
Maholm second-guessed him­self for throwing a hittable pitch to Belliard on an 0-1 count, espe­cially with two out and Anderson on deck. 
“It was a sinker that didn’t do a whole lot, except go about 405 feet,” Maholm said. “In my head, I had a left-handed batter coming up. I agreed to it and I threw it, but in my mind I wanted to throw something different.” 
Dodgers starter Chad Billingsley (1-0) gave up a run while throwing 107 pitches over 5 1-3 innings, yielding five hits, striking out seven and walking four. 
Billingsley was 4-0 during five April starts last season and was 9-3 with a 2.72 ERA after 14 starts, making the NL All-Star team. He faded during the second half, losing eight of his final 11 while having a 4.03 ERA. 
“Last year was last year, this is a new season, a new start,” Billingsley said. “We’ll have to take it one start at a time and one win at a time.” 
With the Dodgers having no established No. 1 starter, they would welcome Billingsley or left-hander Clayton Kershaw pitching himself into that role. 
“We needed a win,” Billingsley said. “You always want to be that guy who is the one who can stop it (a losing streak).” 


page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Friday, April 9, 2010 
PGA TOUR 

Woods lost morality, not golfing prowess 
Associated Press 
AUGUSTA, Ga. — If you wanted to see him fail, a golf course was probably the last place to look. 
Tiger Woods might have lost his moral compass. But his swing hasn’t gone anywhere. 
He striped what might have been the most pressure-packed shot of his career off the first tee, then hit his approach shot 12 feet left of the hole—this as a plane cir­cled lazily overhead towing a banner that read: “Tiger: Did you mean Bootyism?” 
Woods’ birdie try at the first hole narrowly slid past the cup and spun away. Four other times his birdie tries hit the lip and spun out. He let a half-dozen similarly good birdie opportunities on the back nine get away—this time with a plane towing a different ban­ner: “Sex Addict? Yeah. Right. Sure. Me, Too!” 
For all that, portion to how Woods was playing. 
When he walked onto the 12th tee, he politely tipped the bill of his cap, then realized those in the gallery just ahead of him had popped up out of their seats. Woods took his cap off to the still-standing ova­tion, then moments later, hit his tee shot at the par-3 hole just 6 feet below the pin and responded to the full-throated roar by taking his cap off again. Half-embarrassed, he followed that with an awkward smile. 
“I said thank you all the way,” Woods said. “I was say­ing thank you all day.” 
That wasn’t the only thing he said, of course. For all the talk about a new, more fan-friendly Tiger, flashes of the old one resurfaced as he climbed the leaderboard. He pumped his first with every birdie try that fell and nearly dropped to his 
knees several 
times when they 
didn’t. 


Woods still “I said thank you all At the 14th, shot 68, his after a letter-per­
the way. I was saying
lowest opening fect drive down 
thank you all day.” 
round ever at the right side of a tournament the fairway, he’s won four Tiger Woods Woods pulled his times. If noth-approach left and 
Professional golfer
ing else, no matter how the rest of his time here goes, this perform­ance should put to rest any notion that how Woods plays golf has anything to do with how he behaved. 
And remember: If only half the stories of his extramarital flings are true, Woods already won a dozen times around the world knowing full well his secret could blow up at any moment. When he said this time that he feels more com­fortable on a golf course than just about anywhere else, it never rang more true. 
“I normally do feel pretty good on the golf course. Sometimes,” Woods said, “it may be a little difficult at home when helicopters are fly­ing overhead, taking pictures. But normally, I do feel pretty good.” 
He was cheered on the range, on the practice putting green alongside the first tee and everywhere else he stepped. The closest thing to derision were muttered con­versations along a few fair­ways, where clusters of friends either dared one another to yell something nasty, or won­dered whether anybody else might. No one did. 
That certainly had some­thing to do with all the extra security crisscrossing the grounds. Even when Woods sneaked over to a portable toi­let on the 11th hole, he was trailed by two guards. He was also escorted all the way around by Team Tiger, which consisted of a dozen people at various times, but always included his mother, Tida, swing coach Hank Haney, Nike boss Phil Knight, agent Mark Steinberg and a few staff members from the Tiger Woods Foundation. 
The cheers were tentative at first, with fans looking at one another as if all of them were searching for the right tone. But soon enough, the applause gathered steam in direct pro­long of the green, 
dropped the club 
and let out what sounded like the beginning of a howl: “God …” But he caught himself mid-scream, then just stopped, stared into the dis­tance and composed himself for the next shot. One of his three bogeys followed anyway. 
Yet those disappointments were muted compared to the five months of wall-to-wall ridicule that preceded them. As a reminder, he was ripped only Wednesday by Augusta National chairman Billy Payne, who publicly called out Woods for being a less-than-suitable role model for kids. 
“We did have a conversation, yes we did,” was all Woods said about it. “I was disap­pointed in myself, too.” 
Payne’s admonition, howev­er, was mild compared to the blistering that Woods caught for a new Nike commercial that aired a day earlier, in which he stares into the cam­era as his late father asks, “What were you thinking?” The ad has been parodied dozens of times already, most notably with the voice-over replaced by a message Woods was said to have left for one of his mistresses. 
“I think that’s what my dad would say,” Woods said late Thursday, back on the defen­sive for one of the few times all day. 
“It’s amazing how my dad can speak to me from different ways, even when he’s long gone. He’s still helping me. Any son who’s lost a father that meant so much in his life, I think they would understand the spot.” 
Maybe. 
But the simple fact that Woods and his backers at Nike have decided to push back tells you two things. First, they’re as determined to cash in on his misfortune as every­body else; and two, whatever things Woods needed to work on in rehab, his confidence was not one of them. 
NCAA FOOTBALL 
Saban likes Tide offense 
Associated Press 
TUSCALOOSA, Ala. — Alabama coach Nick Saban isn’t one to lavish praise on his foot­ball team, especially not during spring practice when the goal is improvement. 
He’s having trouble finding much fault with an offense that returns virtually every playmak­er from last season, including Heisman Trophy winner Mark Ingram. 
“I feel really good about the way we’re going on offense,” Saban said on Wednesday. “The quarterbacks are playing well. We’ve got good skill players all the way around, and they’ve done a really good job. 
“I think we’ve improved the passing game.” 
Offensively, that would be an important objective for spring practice and next season. 
Sure, the Crimson Tide won a national title last season largely with a relentless running game and one of the nation’s best defenses. The forward pass was mostly an afterthought in the national championship game vic­tory over Texas when Greg McElroy threw for just 58 yards. 
A little more firepower might come in handy with a defense that returns only two starters. Tailbacks Ingram and Trent Richardson certainly wouldn’t complain about a passing game that kept opposing defenses from stacking extra defenders near the line of scrimmage, or in the box. 
“There were times last year when they were putting eight or nine in the box and we were still running it,” Ingram said. “We wouldn’t get the ball out to the perimeter, to our playmakers. That’s just one thing that we have to do, and that’s a point of emphasis that we’re looking at this spring. 
“When people are trying to load up the box to stop the run, we get the ball to them so they can stretch the field and make plays. They’re dangerous and we’ve got to give them the ball.” 
Five of the top six receivers are back and three more report in the fall. Richardson and Ingram combined for 2,409 yards and 25 touchdowns rushing. 
Saban said the two “probably were the salvation” of the offense last season. 
Alabama’s only current holes are at right tackle, left guard and tight end. Sophomore guard Chance Warmack and redshirt freshman tackle D.J. Fluker are among the leading candidates for the line spots while there are several experienced tight ends. 
McElroy still has wide receivers Julio Jones and Marquis Maze and Darius Hanks in a passing game that was serv­iceable but not particularly con­sistent. 
“We left a lot of plays out on the field last year,” tight end Preston Dial said. “We’re trying to capitalize on the plays and have more plays from scrim­mage and limit the penalties. When you’ve got guys like Maze, Hanks and Julio outside, there’s no reason we can’t pass the ball.” 
McElroy’s only significant miss­ing target is tight end Colin Peek, who was fourth on the team with 26 catches for 313 yards. Saban said he has seen “a lot more explosive plays not only in the scrimmage but every day in practice.” 
Jones had a drop in numbers his sophomore season with injury problems but is now healthy. 
“I think it’s safe to say that he’s a different player,” McElroy said. “He stepped it up tremendously. He’s even probably surpassed what he did as a freshman.” 
The Tide had seven new starters last season. 
“We started off slow on offense, if you remember the first half of the Virginia Tech game,” Saban said. “There were proba­bly many people that thought we’d never get a first down. We had a lot of new guys playing, a lot of young guys. We were rebuilding the offensive line. We got better in the second half and got better each week.” 
The spring’s first scrimmage, at least, emphasized passing. To Ingram, it was a positive sign for a simple reason: The receivers were catching the ball. 
“They were making plays,” he said. “When we were taking shots downfield, they were mak­ing plays. They weren’t dropping balls. Greg was making the right reads, so that showed up. Instead of incomplete passes or interceptions, those were big explosive plays. I don’t think it’s anything that anybody should be too concerned with, because we’re going to stay a balanced offense. 


Friday, April 9, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 21 
ND WOMEN’S GOLF 

Irish look to regain form 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame concludes the regular season with the SunTrust Lady Gator Invitational in Gainesville, Fla., as they prepare for the upcom­ing Big East tournament. 
The Irish hope to improve their play this weekend, while adding some consistency to their game. The Invitational will pro­vide excellent practice and preparation for the upcoming Big East championships. 
The tournament features 15 teams, including four teams cur­rently in the NGCA top 25. The competition will be fierce, but that only makes the Irish stronger and gives them an edge against their conference foes. 

Despite playing solid rounds of golf over the course of the sea­son, putting together three solid rounds continues to elude the Irish. Irish coach Susan Holt said the team knows what it wants to accomplish in the SunTrust Lady Gator Invitational: more consistent production. 
“We need to get three solid rounds together,” Holt said. “We are just trying to be more con­sistent and productive.” 
At the Invitational, Notre Dame will get an idea of how they c0ompare to the rest of the competition. With this tourna­ment, the Irish not only face good teams, but they also get a feel for the Florida courses on which the Big East Championships will be held. 
Notre Dame looks to make a strong showing at the confer­ence tournament this year, a tournament in which they fin­ished second last season. The Irish return three players that finished in the top 11 last year. Both senior Annie Brophy and junior So-Hyun Park finished tied for ninth, while sophomore Becca Huffer finished tied for 11th. 
“I know what we are capable of,” Holt said. “We are close.” 
The Irish are out to prove how close they are to being among the elite as they hit the links this weekend at the Mark Bostick Golf Course Saturday. 
Contact Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Saint Mary’s travels to Albion 
Observer Staff Report 
Saint Mary’s (13-9, 2-0 MIAA) looks to extend its win­ning streak to three as it hits the road to face Albion (6-15, 0-5) in a conference matchup. The Belles are coming off a two-game sweep of Kalamazoo on the road that saw the offense explode to the tune of 53 runs. 

Scoring runs has been the team’s strength all season. The Belles are led by senior Ashley Peterson, who paces the team with a .467 batting average and 35 hits. Junior Hayley Bojorquez and her seven home runs have been an excellent complement to Peterson’s production. 
Saint Mary’s looks to devel­op and maintain the consis­tency it lacked last year as it competes for the conference title. The Belles head to Albion in search of their sec­ond consecutive road sweep Friday at 3:30 p.m. 
SMC GOLF 
Belles welcome Trine for home dual meet 
By LUKE MANSOUR 
Sports Writer 
The Belles will try to rebound from a disappointing third place finish at last week’s Southwestern Invitational when they take on Trine University Saturday after­noon in a home dual meet. 
“The last couple trips have been a challenge but it’s good to be back in some familiar surroundings,” Belles coach Mark Hamilton said. “I’m looking forward to a break­through weekend.” 
The No. 5 Belles have had suc­cess against the Thunder in the past, beating them in the fall season as well as taking second place at the Trine Invitational. With a win, the Belles will be able to regain confidence that was lost when things didn’t go their way in Texas. 
However, Hamilton said the Trine University lineup could have a dif­ferent feel to it heading into this weekend’s matchup. 
“They may have added a couple new players for the spring season, but we’ll see what happens,” he said. “We’re definitely optimistic.” 
Trine University is led by senior Becca Miller and junior Katlyn Pero. Miller had a successful fall season, as she was awarded First-Team All-MIAA honors. The Thunder finished fourth overall in conference play. 
The Belles looks to discard the inconsistency that plagued them throughout the Southwestern Invitational, particularly on the tournament’s final day, when the team squandered a chance to hold onto second place. 
“[In Texas] we were cruising along making a lot of pars and birdies, then an 8 or 9 would creep in somewhere and that would put us back behind the eight ball,” Hamilton said. “It was pretty disap­pointing — we all just played poorly on the last day as a team which normally doesn’t happen.” 
The Belles will need a big per­formance from the trio of junior Mary Kate Boyce, sophomore Natalie Matsuzak and junior Rosemary O’Connor, each of whom has played an essential role this season. With MIAA qualifying right around the corner, Hamilton is looking for a complete performance to boost the Belles to an automatic bid for the NCAA Division III Tournament. 
“We need some solid scores out of our top three players, but our four and five spots are key to our success,” Hamilton said. “I look for whoever plays in those spots to be consistent and come in with a good number.” 
The Belles will take on Trine Saturday at noon at the South Bend Country Club. 
Contact Luke Mansour at lmansour@nd.edu 


page 22 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 9, 2010 
MEN’S TENNIS 

Irish ready to bounce back against Louisville 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
After falling 7-0 to No. 2 Ohio State Wednesday in a tough home match, the No. 36 Irish are looking to get back on their feet Saturday when they face Big East rival No. 14 Louisville. 
“The loss to Ohio State was tough, but that was [Wednesday] and Louisville comes in here Saturday and I doubt if they are feeling too sorry for us,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “Our job now is to regroup and be ready to take on another top 15 team. We hope that the familiar home courts will give us a boost and that we can bounce back from Wednesday’s loss.” 
Notre Dame (11-10) returned to campus late Tuesday night after competing in Texas over Easter break, where the team went 1-1, defeating Southern Methodist and falling to Texas A&M. However, Bayliss doesn’t make up any excuses for his team. 
“I believe that the first person or team to find an excuse for losing will make it a self-fulfill­ing prophesy,” he said. “Competing is about never allowing that doubt to creep into your mind and always find­ing something positive to use to your advantage. Hopefully we will handle any adversity well this weekend.” 
Notre Dame is looking to avenge last season’s two losses to the Cardinals, both of which ended by a final of 4-3. Bayliss said Louisville’s impressive ranking and strong depth in its lineup will be the greatest chal-
Corrigan 
continued from page 28 
Corrigan said he needs the Irish to play smarter, more controlled lacrosse. In their losses, the Irish got away from what they do best as a team, and it cost them. 
“We need to play sound, fundamental lacrosse for 60 minutes,” Corrigan said. “We need to play with poise and intelligence. We haven’t done that consistently.” 
Because of the strength of Georgetown both offensively and defensively, the Irish will need to be on their game in all areas of the field. Corrigan said he wants to see poise on offense against the lenges to overcome in Saturday’s matchup, not the conference rivalry. 
“I don’t consider the Big East rivalry as important as I do the opportunity to take on a highly ranked team and the benefits coming from that,” Bayliss said. “We had genuine opportunities to win both matches [last sea­son].” 
Among the Cardinals’ strong lineup are four international players — Austin Childs, Simon Childs, Viktor Maximcuk and Alejandro Calligari, each of whom brings his own playing style the Irish will have to adjust to, as well as success in doubles competition. Louisville has spent a significant amount of time ranked in the top ten, and as Bayliss says, Notre Dame knows it will have to bring its best effort. 
As part of that great effort, the Irish will have to continue the excellence they have shown at doubles so far this season with junior Stephen Havens and sophomore Casey Watt leading the way at the No. 1 position. Bayliss said he knows that endurance in his team’s play will be the key to success this weekend. 
“A tennis match is more of a marathon than a sprint, and we need to muster the ability to stay with the good teams long enough to be able to take advantage of the momentum swings that go our way,” Bayliss said. “Being patient, yet taking advantage of opportunities, is the key to winning.” 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 
athleticism of Georgetown’s defense, stiff defense against the dynamic Hoya attack and intelligence in transition to avoid unsettled situations. 
If the Irish can come away with a win, they would claim a huge road victory and a boost to their tournament résumé. On top of that, it would give them a full head of steam heading into their final three Big East games against Providence, St. John’s and two -time defending national champion, No. 3 Syracuse, a game that has already sold out. 
The Irish will face off against the Hoyas at 12 p.m. in Washington, D.C., with tel­evision coverage on ESPNU. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Irish welcome South Florida 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
Fresh off a grueling trip to Texas during which Notre Dame went 1-1 in two match­es, the No. 6 Irish return to the familiar home courts of the Eck Tennis Pavilion as they take on No. 19 South Florida Friday. 
of sad because it means every­thing is close to being over,” McGaffigan said. “But it’s nice knowing that we’ll be home and we’ll have our friends and our fans out cheering for us.” 
The Bulls (10-5), who lost to the Irish in the 2008 Big East Championships, are a familiar foe, and the Irish will look to 
The Bulls will  build on its 4-1  
test the team  record against  
in its return to  South Florida  
the home court. “They’re one of the top  “We’re done traveling for the season, which is actually kind of sad  historically. No. 41 Irene R e h b e r g e r leads the Bulls  
teams in the  because it means  this year and  
Big East,” f r e s h m a n C h r i s s i e  everything is close to being over.”  will match up against Notre Dame’s top sin- 
M c G a f f i g a n  gles player No.  
said. “They’re a group of really talented  Chrissie McGaffgan freshman  18 sophomore Kristy Frilling. The Irish are  
players.”  focused on dou- 
The Irish  bles play,  

(16-3) will be playing their first match at home in over a month, where they last defeat­ed Indiana on March 5. Though they went 5-2 over the span, the month on the road definite­ly took a toll on the team. 
“We’re done traveling for the season, which is actually kind where they will face the No. 16 team of Rehberger and Melissa Koning. The Irish have been preparing for the Bulls’ strong doubles play in practice. 
“We’ve worked a lot in dou­bles throughout the season, but recently we’ve been practicing our singles heavily too,” McGaffigan said. “The coaches have been putting us through a ton of drills as we try to improve our singles play.” 
In addition to Frilling, who has been nearly flawless at the top singles position, the Irish have been getting equally strong play from the likes of No. 113 McGaffigan, who car­ries a 12-7 record at the third singles spot, and senior Cosmina Ciobanu, who leads the Irish with 16 wins on the season. McGaffigan believes her play is important to back up Frilling’s dominance. 
“Basically, being a real close-knit team has helped us out,” McGaffigan said. “We all know that we are behind each other. We are always cheering for each other, and you can always hear us on the court. We know that every single spot is just as important as the next, so our play is really important to the team.” 
The Irish look to start the three-match home stand on the right foot as they square off with the Bulls at Eck Tennis Pavilion at 3 p.m. Friday. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
TRACK AND FIELD 
ND to play in Louisville Invitational 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
The Irish will compete in the Louisville Invitational this weekend, a four team event 
involving  a  “Border  War”  
between  Indiana  and  
Kentucky.  

Notre Dame and Indiana University will compete with omore runner Jack Howard said. “The three teams we are running against have some great 800 meter runners, so it should be an excellent oppor­tunity to do so.” 
The Irish competed in four meets last weekend before Easter break. Different ath­
letes  went  to  the  Arizona  
Multi -Event,  the  Florida  
Relays,  the  Purdue  

the University of Kentucky and the University of Louisville. 
“The Louisvill e Invitational is actually a pretty inter­esting meet,” sophomore thrower Mike Smig elski said. “It should be 
“It should be pretty exciting, especially considering some of the great competition we will be facing.” 
Mike Smigelski sophomore thrower 
Invitational and the Tiger Track Classic. 
Notre Dame picked up three top-five finishes in the men’s hammer throw at Purdue. The top Irish per­former was junior Greg Davis, who fin­ished third overall. 
pretty exciting, especially con­sidering some of the great competition we will be fac­ing.” 
“Personally, I am looking to lower my outdoor time,” soph­
“I think, as a whole, the team competed pretty well,” Smigelski said. “A bunch of people qualified for the Big East Championships, which is always nice. Also, I heard of a bunch of personal records. Overall, I think everyone came away from the weekend feeling pretty good.” 
Four Irish athletes took first place in the events. Junior Theresa Cattuna won the women’s 5,000 meters, senior Joanna Schultz finished first in the 400 meters, sophomore Jonathan Shawel took top honors in the 800-meter run, and senior Eric Quick beat out the rest of the competition in the triple jump. 
After this weekend, the Irish will have only five events remaining until the Big East championships, which will be held April 30-May 2 in Cincinnati, Ohio. 
“Right now our team wants to get as many guys qualified for the Big East meets as we can,” Howard said. “That and maintaining our health are our top priorities at this point in the season.” 
This weekend’s match will take place Saturday at the University of Louisville. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 


Friday, April 9, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 23 
However, Go Meat used a num-ers, however, energized the Cool bers advantage in the first half Runnings squad, who began 
Halftime 

and an unusually lax Cool passing the ball up and down the continued from page 28 Runnings defense to push Cool court and using superior athleti-Runnings to the end, doomed cism to go inside for points. Cool 
Both teams had to contend only by the snow and its height Runnings was able to jump out to with cold, wind and rain, making disadvantage. a lead, riding a run to game dribbling, passing and shooting Freshman captain Matt Lynch’s point. Go Meat fought hard until the slippery ball difficult at best. Cool Runnings squad of freshmen the end, however, scoring multi-This especially hurt Team Rob Bauer, Mike Nolte, Drew ple points on game point before Melissa, which tried to overcome Weltus and David Gorenz was at finally falling on a layup. Ceponis its numbers disadvantage by a disadvantage early when two said that the loss was hard to pushing the ball up the court and players didn’t show up until half-stomach. looking for fast-break and sec-time, leaving their teammates to “It was a heartbreaking loss. ondary-break situations to score. play 5-on-3 for the first half. The As juniors, we thought this would Cinderblock, however, tried to junior girls of Go Meat, including be our year,” she said. “We slow the game down as much as Megan McGarry, Ari Cassani, played well and we’re, well, possible on offense, using their Anne Allare, Mary McKeever, done.” moderate size advantage to go Kristen Wall and captain Sarah inside against a team that includ-Ceponis, were not intimidated by Pandamonium 21, ed three defending women’s their opponents’ size, braving the Partee-Moore Wedding 6 bracket champions. This strategy snow in nothing more than shorts Complete with a bride, a worked well in the first half, as and basketball jerseys and play-groom, a bridesmaid, a flower Cinderblock was able to take an ing with high energy. girl and a presiding priest, the 11-6 lead at halftime on the “They were good-looking and Partee-Moore wedding came strength of its offensive tall,” Ceponis said, laughing. ready to celebrate their nuptials rebounds. “Unfortunately, height is the one against the black and white clad 
Desperate for a fifth player, thing you can’t overcome in this Pandamonium. Team Melissa called on Finance game.” Consisting of Brandy Mader, professor Carl Ackermann, who Because of their numbers dis-the flower girl, Caitlin Brown, the was present to watch another advantage, Cool Runnings started bride, Andy Tran, the groom, game. Ackermann laced up a the game in a triangle zone but Grace Ho, the bridesmaid and pair of borrowed sneakers, took were not able to close out quick Joe Serafin, the priest, the off his tie and suit jacket and was enough on open shooters, allow-Partee-Moore Wedding never let ready to play before Berlin ing Go Meat to stay close by scor-the disparity on the scoreboard, arrived at the end of halftime. ing at the same clip as Cool or the miserable weather, stop the gentle giants of the Far East, scoreboard first. Team Melissa seemed energized Runnings. When Cool Runnings them from celebrating their joy-was satisfied with its victory The score was close early on, by his arrival and played hard till had the ball, however, they uti-ous day. Thursday, but wanted to keep the but once the Super Troopers built the end, with McCarthy even lized their size through repeated Even though Pandamonium, winning alive. a lead, they never looked back. blocking a taller Cinderblock high passes to get open looks consisting of juniors Paige Their mindset coming in was Brittney’s Beat Down made a player. Berlin’s arrival was too lit-underneath the basket and to Gesicki, Kelly Pierson, Neva for “complete and total domina-valiant attempt at a comeback, tle, too late, however, as Dhingra knock down midrange jumpers. Lundy, Drake Hepp and Will tion,” Pierson said. cutting the lead to two points in broke free for a breakaway layup With the game tied at 6-6, Cool Gesick, took a commanding 11-3 Pandamonium has a much the second half, but just could not to seal his team’s victory. Runnings began to dominate, as lead into halftime, that did not tougher task ahead of them, but convert on the offensive end with 
Despite his team’s win, Waytula the cold began getting to Go Meat stop the Partee-Moore Wedding they are going to face the chal-any consistency. said he was not happy with its — at one point, Ceponis could be from celebrating with a toast at lenge head-on. Cota attributed his team’s victo­performance overall. heard shouting “My muscles are halftime. When she felt the mood “We’re going to practice every ry to their stingy defense. 
“We didn’t do well against the freezing!” getting too tense, Mader would day,” Pierson said. “Drake Hepp “Our defense kept us in it,” zone and didn’t execute like we Despite the cold, the game throw flowers into the air or blow will lead us to victory.” Cota said. “Our offense struggled wanted to,” he said. “We came began getting chippy just before bubbles to cheer everyone up. at times, but we made a run late out with the win, and that’s what the half, with Go Meat commit-“It was the perfect day for the Super Troopers 21, in the game that won it for us.” matters, but if we play like this ting some hard fouls on Cool wedding,” Ho said. “It was every-Brittney’s Beat Down 17 Brittney’s Beat Down, consist-again, we’re not going to win.” Runnings layup attempts and thing we dreamed of and more.” The Super Troopers and ing of Brian Malloy, Pat Lloyd, 
using swarming defense made “We couldn’t get the date we Brittney’s Beat Down, a reference Kevin Rahill, Connor Wills and Cool Runnings 21, Go Meat 15 possible by their extra players. At wanted at the Basilica,” Tran to Baylor’s Brittney Griner and Thomas VanVolkenburg, 
From the teams’ height dispari-halftime, Cool Runnings led by said. “So we got the next best the haymaker she laid on Jordan appeared physically drained after ties alone, this game appeared to just three points over a hard-thing — Bookstore.” Barncastle, battled the rain, sleet dealing with the wet and cold for be an overwhelming mismatch in fighting Go Meat team. Pandamonium, who had its and snow, as well as each other almost an hour and coming up favor of Cool Runnings. The arrival of the missing play-noses painted black in homage to in one of the closer games of the empty-handed. 
day. 
The Super Troopers, consisting of juniors Tom Haddard, David Contact Allen Joseph at Adams, Donald Kafka, Erich ajoseph2@nd.edu and Matthew Wolz and Alex Cota, got on the Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
Ryan Kapp (.327, 19 RBI, 3 HR). This powerful offensive 
Pitching 
Rutgers squad has put up continued from page 28 196 runs so far this season in 27 games to Notre Dame’s hander Steve Sabatino (2-3, 162 runs. 
5.05 ERA) and junior right-“Our biggest thing is that hander Brian Dupra (2 -2, we need to score some runs 
5.01 ERA). against them,” Schrage said. 
“Good pitching should beat “That is the biggest thing good hitting, so hopefully our because their Achilles’ heel pitching will be better than is their starting pitching.” their pitching,” Schrage said. Leading the pitching attack 
Notre Dame is in for a for Rutgers is workhorse tough matchup against senior right -hander Casey Rutgers, which is currently Gaynor. Gaynor boasts a 3-3 in a tie for first place in the record with a 5.70 ERA in Big East with Louisville (24-42.2 innings pitched. 4, 5-1 Big East) and South Also playing well for the Florida (13-16, 5-1 Big East). Scarlet Knights is another 
Rutgers is led offensively freshman making a positive by freshman infielder Steve contribution in left-hander Nyisztor, who paces the team Dan O’Niell (1-0, 5.90 ERA, with a .375 batting average 29.0 IP). while adding 21 RBIs. First pitch is at 5:05 p.m. 
Also playing strong offen-Friday at Frank Eck sively for the Scarlet Knights Stadium. are Pat Biserta (.339, 30 RBI, 10 HR), Brandon Boykin Contact Jared Jedick at (.333, 17 RBI, 4 HR) and jjedick@nd.edu 





page 24 The Observer . SPORTS Friday, April 9, 2010 
Zentgraf 
continued from page 28 
“Recently, we have played a lot of really close games,” Zentgraf said. “Basically, our mindset going in is that we can’t be satisfied with win­ning in that fashion. It’s not enough to win these games in the last six seconds. [Irish coach Tracy Coyne] is telling us that we should be blowing these teams out.” 
The weekend will offer no respite to the players as they face off against the Orange (6-3) Sunday. The game will be a huge test for an Irish team that is looking to stay near the top of the Big East. 
“They are a really great team, ” Scioscia said. “We beat them last year in the Big East semifinals, so they will definitely be coming after us looking for a little revenge.” 
Zentgraf believes Syracuse’s athleticism will call the Irish to rise to the challenge of keeping up with Syracuse players like Big East Player of the Year Christina Dove. 
“Syracuse is so athletic and fun to play,” Zentgraf said. “We haven’t really begun to prepare for them strategical­ly with Villanova in the fore­front, but it’s always exciting to play a great team like that. We’ re not looking past Villanova, but we’re definite­ly ready to go.” 
The Irish (6-6) will have to contend with Dove, but the two seniors believe their defensive effort, centered around freshman goalie Ellie Hilling, will be more than ready. 

“Ellie’s past three games have been amazing,” Zentgraf said. “She has basi­cally carried us through some of these games.” 
Besides Hilling, some of the other Irish youngsters have stepped up too and will need to continue their strong play down the final stretch of the season. 
“[Freshman] Betsy Mastropieri has been huge,” Zentgraf said. “She was in and out in the beginning of the season, but the past few games she has really stepped up and she’s really convert­ing.” 
Zentgraf, Scioscia and the rest of the Irish will take the field at Arlotta Stadium Friday at 4:30 p.m. against Villanova and again at 1 p.m. Sunday against Syracuse. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
Bulls 
continued from page 28 
mound, freshman Lindsey Richardson, who was recently named the Big East Pitcher of the Week. 
The Irish have three huge advantages going into the series. They are leading the NCAA in bat­
“We have been 
ting average more impor­and are ranked focusing on little tantly, Erin is second in the such a good 
fundamental details 
nation defen-person that it 
that we might take for
sively. Also, hurts to see they have won granted at this point her go through 
each of their in the season.” this horrible conference experience.” games so far This week-
Kris Ganeff
this season. end gives In practice, Irish assistant coach Notre Dame 
The Irish suffered their biggest loss of the season last week when junior utility fielder Erin Marrone tore her ACL, taking her out of the lineup for the duration of the season. 
“This was a terrible blow to the entire team for several rea­sons,” Ganeff said. “First Erin is a tremendous player and was having a great year offensively and defensive­ly for our team, but 
the Irish have been preparing for the series by working on both personal aspects and team aspects of the game. 
“We have had some good practices, some days focusing on individual fundamentals, sometimes on team situations,” Gumpf said. 
The Irish also emphasize the benefits of practicing real game situations to avoid any surpris­es the Bulls might bring with them to South Bend. 
“Lately in practice we have been trying to work on the things that could come up in a game and really make or break us in that situation,” assistant coach Kris Ganeff said. “We have been focusing on little fundamental details that we might take for granted at this point in the season.” 
the opportuni­
ty to learn not 
only about the playing styles and strategies of South Florida, but also the team’s progress towards the central goals of the season. Ganeff said finishing first in the conference is at the top of the list. 
“We try to make everyday the same so we can continue to approach each game as anoth­er step towards our goals of winning the Big East Conference and proceeding on to the post season,” Ganeff said. 
The first two games will be Saturday at 12 p.m. and 2 p.m. at Melissa Cook Stadium. The Irish wrap up the series Sunday with game three at noon. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 


Friday, April 9, 2010 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 25 page 26 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT Friday, April 9, 2010 
Friday, April 9, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 27 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 





JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Friday, April 9, 2010 page 28 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Defending their turf 
Notre Dame opens up critical homestand 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
The No. 16 Irish open up the biggest home stand of the year this weekend, as they take on Villanova and No. 7 Syracuse at Arlotta Stadium in two critical Big East matchups. 
Villanova (7-2) is in its first year in the conference, but the Irish are careful not to overlook the first year Big East foe. 
“We don’t know a lot about them,” senior attack Gina Scioscia said. “But what we do know is that they are a bunch of really talented girls from the East Coast. They’re a team that loves to hustle.” 

Senior midfielder Maggie Zentgraf said the game plan for Villanova has centered on how the Irish have played in recent games. TOM LA/The Observer 
Senior midfielder Maggie Zentgraf stares down the opposition during Notre Dame’s 15-10 win see ZENTGRAF/page 24 over Duquesne on Feb 27. Zentgraf shores up an Irish attack averaging 27 shots per game. 

ND SOFTBALL 
Irish ready to take on South Fla. 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
After Wednesday’s double­header against Bowling Green was postponed because of weather conditions, the Irish are ready to grace the dirt again with hopes of continuing their perfect record at home in this weekend’s three-game series against South Florida. 
The No. 23 Irish (26-6, 5-0 Big East) beat conference opponent South Florida (18-15, 3-0) twice last season, but each game was close as the Bulls offense was able to make both of the games interesting. 
“They are scrappy and fast,” Irish coach Deanna Gumpf said. “They are a team that makes things happen.” 
Though the Irish were success­ful last season, this year the Bulls have a new player on the 
see BULLS/page 24 


BASEBALL 

Revitalized offense propels ND into conference matchup 
By JARED JEDICK Sports Writer  yet, and I think our guys feel t h a t w e h a v e t o s t a r t t h i s w e e k e n d w i n n i n g s o m e  with Seton Hall (11-14, 1-5 Big East) in the Big East. The Irish are getting offen­ c o u pl e a d ju stm e nt s i n ou r lineup,” Schrage said. “These a r e g u y s t h a t w e t h o u g h t  a freshman, is starting to get some games under his belt a n d h e i s i m p r o v i n g , ”  
s e r i e s , ”  I r i s h  c o a c h  D a v e  sive help from  some  familiar  would do well and they got  Schrage said.  
After the offense has start- Schrage said.  veteran faces in senior out- off  to  slow starts, and they  Despite the renewed vigor  
ed to  come  alive by averag- Notre Dame (10-17, 1-5 Big  fielder David Mills (.371, 18  are good hitters and they are  f r o m t h e  o f f e n s e  o v e r  t h e  
ing  more  than 10  runs  per  East) will face Rutgers (15­ R B I s ) ,  s e n i o r  o u t f i e l d e r /  just starting to pick it up.”  past four games, Notre Dame  
game in the past four  out-12, 5-1 Big East) three times  i n f i e l d e r  R y a n  C o n n o l l y  Desico is batting .347 with  was only able to take two out  
ings, the Irish look to carry  o v e r  t h e  w e e k e n d  a t  5 : 0 5  (.367, 18 RBIs, 5 HR), and  17 runs,  a  home  run  and 11  of the four games, and only  
s o m e  o f  t h a t  o f f e n s i v e  p . m .  F r i d a y,  1 : 0 5  p . m .  senior first baseman Casey  RBIs. In the 13-6 victory over  one  out of three in the  con- 
momentum into their week- S a t u r d a y,  a n d  1 2 : 0 5  p . m .  Martin (.358, 17 RBIs, 3 HR),  Oakland  on  Tuesday, Desico  ference.  
end series with Rutgers  at  Sunday. The weekend is criti­ b u t  t h e  p l e a s a n t s u r p r i s e  hit his first career home run,  Leading the Irish pitching  
Frank Eck Stadium.  cal for the Irish to gain some  lately has  come  from fresh- as  well  as  going 4-for-4 with  attack  are  sophomore left- 
“It will be good for  us.  We  conference wins and climb  man infielder Frank Desico.  two runs and two RBIs.  
haven’t had a series at home  o u t  o f  a  t i e  f o r  l a s t p l a c e  “I t hin k  we  h ave ma de  a  “Frank Desico, who is just  see PITCHING/page 23  

BOOKSTORE BASKETBALL 
Undermanned teams face off 
By ALLAN JOSEPH AND 
MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writers 
Team Melissa played the first half missing a player and could not recover from the disadvan­tage, falling 21-16 to Float like cinderblocks, and sting like foam rubber. 
Team Melissa senior Nick Berlin was meeting University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh and showed up at halftime, leaving senior team­mates Sierra Smith, Matt Meckes, Kim Bugos and captain Molly McCarthy to face the Cinderblock squad of freshmen Danny Waytula, Manin “$” Dhingra, Scott Johnson, Ted Docherty and captain Michael 
see HALFTIME/page 23 

MEN’S LACROSSE 
Squad hits the road against Georgetown 
By MATHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
Coming off two losses to start their inaugural Big East season, the Irish need a big win over No. 11 Georgetown on the road to get back into the NCAA Tournament hunt. 
The Hoyas (6-3, 2-1 Big East) come in battle-tested by one of the toughest schedules in the country. 
“Georgetown has a very athletic, very skilled, dynamic offense,” Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. “Defensively, they are very aggressive and in your face.” 
After starting the season strong with wins over No. 6 Duke and No. 9 Loyola (Md.), the Irish (5-4, 0-2) have fizzled out as of late and need a win in order to get back on track. At one point, the Irish had climbed all the way to No. 3 in the rankings. But after losses to Drexel, Fairfield and Rutgers, Notre Dame fell out of the USILA Coaches’ Poll, and almost out of the NCAA Tournament picture. 
“We need to win this game to get into the NCAA Tournament,” Corrigan said. “We’ve lost our fall-back — we just need to win now.” 
see CORRIGAN/page 22 






