the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Prosecutor issues statement on Seeberg 
Observer Staff Report 
The St. Joseph County Prosecutor’s Office released a report Monday confirming that their office received a report from Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) regarding the investigation into a Saint Mary’s student’s death. 
First year Elizabeth “Lizzy” Seeberg died in an apparent sui­cide Sept. 10. She was 19. 
Seeberg had previously filed an allegation with NDSP claim­ing a Notre Dame student had sexually assaulted her. The alleged sexual assault took place Aug. 31, the release stat­ed. 
After NDSP received the report of the sexual assault, it began an investigation. 
The Chicago Tribune pub­lished a story Sunday that said the University failed to inform the St. Joseph County Police and the county’s special victims unit (SVU), which handles sex offens­es, about the alleged assault. 
St. Joseph County Prosecutor Michael Dvorak refuted this in Monday’s release. 
He said NDSP contacted the county’s SVU to advise them of the pending investigation. 
“[NDSP] has kept staff mem­bers of the SVU informed throughout the investigation,” 
see REPORT/page 4 



Blog lists local activities 

By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 

Notre Dame students are notorious for complaining about the lack of entertain­ment options South Bend has to offer. But the recently cre­ated blog, “365 Things to Do in South Bend,” paints a dif­ferent picture of the city. 
Senior Rachel Roseberry said one of the reasons she started the blog with co­authors Tracy Jennings and Denise Baron — both 2010 Notre Dame graduates — was to prove South Bend is not culturally deficient. 
“South Bend is not boring or lacking in things to do,” Roseberry said. “It has a sense of community. We started this blog as a coun­terpoint to that argument.” 
Jennings said students could be more receptive to the variety of cultural options in the city. 
“I think South Bend is a good size for a college town,” she said. “You just need to be open to doing new things.” 
Roseberry said one inspira­tion for the blog was to spread the cultural and entertainment options she has grown to love in the area. 
“We discovered so many great places in South Bend,” she said. “The more time I lived here, I wanted to high­light the great stuff and make it available to those who wanted to hear about the same things.” 
Baron said one of the chal­lenges of the blog is present­ing unique activity options to readers. She said it has helped that none of the co­authors are from the area. 
“None of us grew up in South Bend, so we all bring different perspectives to the blog,” Baron said. “We don’t try to write about the most obvious things, or we put a unique spin on obvious things.” 

Roseberry said in addition to providing unique and interesting posts for readers, the co-authors are focused on sharing both personal favorites and new cultural experiences of their own. 
“It’s a process of self-dis­covery,” Roseberry said. “We try to have a mix of places like restaurants with events that are unique to the South Bend community. Sometimes we are discovering places and other times we’re shar­ing places we love.” 
Jennings said the blog, which began in August, is modeled after similar blogs about other areas of the country. 
“We had heard about simi­lar blogs in other cities. We 
see BLOG/page 3 



Students help arts at Perley 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Notre Dame students stepped into South Bend to save fine arts at a local elementary school as its staff prepared to lose funding for some of its most important pro­grams, student government com­munity relations chair Claire Sokas said. 
Perley Primary Fine Arts Academy is an arts magnet school inside the South Bend School Corporation. Its curriculum specifically focuses on aspects of the arts, ranging from singing to film to gardening. 
“Until last year, Perley had some of the lowest standardized test scores in the country and was considered a failing school,” Sokas said. “However, last year, the principal and the staff at Perley set a goal of 65 percent passing for the [Indiana Statewide Testing for Educational Progress-Plus (ISTEP)], and between the fine arts curriculum and constant assessments of reading, writing and math skills, they were able to meet their goal.” 
The administration hoped to keep improving during the 2010­2011 academic year, Sokas said. 
“The goal the staff decided on this year was 80 percent, which would be a dramatic increase from the year before and would move Perley permanently beyond the ‘failing school’ status,” Sokas said. 
see PERLEY/page 5 


Local businesses offer discounts to students 

By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
While students may be aware that certain businesses offer dis­counts for college students, stu­dent government’s recently initi­ated Students for South Bend Discount Program aims to expand awareness and use of these discounts. 
Student body president Catherine Soler said that, in addition to requests for the abili­ty to use Flex Points and Domer Dollars off campus, students commonly inquired about a dis­count program. Students expressed their desire for a dis­count program during this year’s Whine Week, an event through which students could voice their desires and concerns about stu­dent government programs. 

“We got it again at Whine Week, to get Domer Dollars and Flex Points off campus,” she said. “While that’s popular, we decided based on student opin­ion that we’d focus instead on an off-campus discount program, and what it’s become is the Students for South Bend Discount Program.” 
Student Senate Off-Campus Concerns chair Emily LeStrange said that, while the idea of a stu­dent discount program is not new, the Students for South Bend program is the first at Notre Dame that does not require the purchase of a dis­count booklet. 
“Previous student government discount initiatives have all required students to purchase a discount booklet,” she said. “We feel that this time around, a free discount program that all stu­dents are welcome to participate in encourages greater use of the program.” 
Soler said student participa­tion in the program hinged on not having to go out of the way to use it. 
“We knew it would never work 
see DISCOUNT/page 5 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER FOTO supports Honduran children page 3  Music under the radar page 9  USC game preview page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Tuesday, November 23, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: W AT ARE YOUR PLANS FOR T ANKSGIVING BREAK?

THE OBSERVER 







P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Laura McCrystal Molly Sammon Kristen Durbin Megan Finneran Emily Schrank Cory Bernard Graphics Scene Blair Chemidlin Marissa Frobes Photo Viewpoint Pat Coveney Ren Brauweiler 
OFFBEAT 

Invention protects privacy at airport 
DENVER — It’s a special kind of underwear — with a strategically placed fig leaf design — and a Colorado man says it’ll get you through the airport screeners with your dignity intact. 
Jeff Buske says his inven­tion uses a powdered metal that protects people’s priva­cy when undergoing med­ical or security screenings. 
Buske of Las Vegas, Nev. 
— Rocky Flats Gear says the underwear’s inserts are thin and conform to the body’s contours, making it difficult to hide anything beneath them. The mix of tungsten and other metals do not set off metal detec-
Nick Anderson  Andrew Ofsonka  Liz Garvin  Qianchi Yang  Brian Rockwell  
freshman  junior  freshman  freshman  junior  
Keenan  Keenan  Welsh Family  Alumni  O’Neill  

“I’m going  “Homework and  “I’m going  “I’m going to  “Just staying  
home.”  Christmas  home to  Chicago.”  here and  
shopping.”  Chicago and  relaxing.”  
seeing friends  
from high  
school.”  




Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

tors. 

The men’s design has the fig leaf, while the one for women comes in the shape of clasped hands. 
It’s unclear whether it would lead to an automatic, more intrusive pat down by federal Transportation Security Administration officials. 
FAA won’t punish pilot in NJ toilet paper drop 
WESTWOOD, N.J. — The Federal Aviation Administration won’t take any action against a New Jersey pilot who tossed rolls of toilet paper from a small plane onto an athletic field as a test run for a streamer drop at an upcoming high school football game. 
FAA spokesman Jim Peters told The Record of Woodland Park Friday that the agency investigated but found no grounds for further action against pilot Warren Saunders of Westwood. 
Saunders still faces a state criminal charge. 
Police said Saunders cir­cled the Westwood Middle School athletic fields in his Cessna 172 on the evening of Oct. 13 and dropped two rolls of toilet paper. People at a nearby soccer practice called police. 
Saunders’ lawyer, Scott Berkoben, was out of his office and unavailable for comment Friday. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The lecture “Iberia and the Advanced Latin American Social Policy Regimes: Explaining the Different Trajectories” will take place today at 12:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. The lecture is free and open to the public. 
A Thanksgiving Day Mass will take place Thursday in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart at 11:45 a.m. and 5:15 
p.m. 
There will be no 5:15 

p.m. 
Mass on Friday. 


North Dining Hall will host a Thanksgiving Dinner on Thursday from 12 p.m. to 
3:30 pm. The dinner will feature roast carved turkey and pumpkin pie. 
The Notre Dame women’s basketball team will play IUPUI in the WBCA Classic on Friday at 2 p.m. in the Purcell Pavilion at the Joyce Center. Individual tickets can be purchased at the Joyce Center. 
The Notre Dame football team will play the University 
of Southern California on Saturday in Los Angeles . Kickoff is at 5 p.m. Pacific time. 
The lecture “Skeletons in the Closet: Transitional Justice in Post-Communist Europe” will take place Tuesday, November 30 at 
12:30 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Monika Nalepa, assistant professor of political science, will speak. It is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 


38 32 HIGH 4348 3339
mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


24 24 LOW 3516 2122 






Tuesday, November 23, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 



FOTOsupportsHonduranorphanage,surgerycenter 
tions, but they are allowed to at the Honduras NPH. 
By AMANDA GRAY 

“scrub in” and see things up The surgery center helps not 
News Writer 

close. only the orphans, but also the “In the U.S., you’re only able residents in rural Honduras in Freshman John Romano said to stand back,” Daly said. the orphanage’s area. It is one of Michael Daly’s most “There, the doctors are very open two to three days per used statements is, “Do it for interactive.” week, performing minor sur­the children.” In the most recent trip over geries, Daly said. Groups of Romano is Daly’s cousin and Fall Break, students volun-doctors come from the U.S. to 
a member of Friends of the teered in an orphanage. perform major surgeries. Orphans (FOTO), a student “[We perform] jobs that have “We support all of the NPH group that raises funds and been idle because other things orphanages in general, but we awareness for Nuestros come up for the staff that they specifically support the Holy Pequeños Hermanos (NPH) have to deal with,” Daly said. Family Surgery Center and the orphanages. Notre Dame’s “It’s nice for [students] to come Honduras orphanage,” Daly branch of FOTO works through in and be a helping hand.” said. “We’re raising funds to a larger national FOTO group. Daly said the group painted a help the center function and Daly, a senior, is president and church, built tables and exist. We’re trying to hand founder of the Notre Dame tutored children. over the center to Honduran group. “The volunteer coordinators doctors. That will be some-
The Spanish phrase said the volunteers are proac-thing to take pride in for their “Nuestros Pequeños tive,” he said. “A lot of the vol-country.” Hermanos” means “our little unteers don’t like to just sit Surgeries cost around $150 brothers and sisters” in around.” each, Daly said. English, and the orphanages Daly said it has been a bless-“These people wait years to provide homes for more than ing to see the effect in the lives have surgery because they 3,600 children in nine orphan-of students who don’t have the Dillon Hall sponsors Carlos’ “This trip was an experience ages and nine Latin American have gone to the money,” he said. brother, Omar, Romano said. I will never forget. Seeing the countries, according to the orphanages. “We’re raising funds There are “Most of the kids who do get way these children live in such NPH website. “It’s a great to help the center roughly 500 sponsors are the young, cute a loving community something 
“We have such passionate lesson to stu-orphans in the kids,” Romano said. “We that changes you. I am amazed 
function and exist.
members [at FOTO], and dents,” he said. H o n d u r a s searched for someone who did-by how much joy they show everyone’s willing to help with “You don’t have We’re trying to hand orphanage, Daly n’t get many sponsors. Omar despite how little they have,” any event we have,” Daly said. to be doing over the center to said. Anyone will be at NPH for the rest of she said. “Now back on cam-
The group has put on such something to be can sponsor an his life — he’s mentally dis-pus, staying involved with 
Honduran doctors. 
events as Charity Denim, affective.” orphan through abled.” FOTO is important to me 
That will be 
where high-end denim brands Daly and his the NPH web-Romano said he didn’t know because it helps me remember were sold and a portion of the sister Trisha, a something to take site. Several what to expect when he first my Fall Break experience and purchase price went to charity. 2010 Saint Notre Dame res-visited Honduras in March. continue to support the chil­
pride in for their
They have also had charity Mary’s gradu-idence halls and “When I was down there I dren even from so far away.” 
country.” 
lunches and dinners to raise ate, founded the a few students got close to a girl and now I Daly said for many students, money and awareness. Notre Dame have sponsored sponsor her,” he said. “[NPS] a week spent in Honduras with 
The group also travels to vol-branch of the Michael Daly orphans, which gives kids an opportunity. the orphans stays with them unteer at an orphanage in club last year, costs around There’s not kid on campus who when the return to Notre 
president
Honduras several times a year, and FOTO won $360 per year. has a tougher situation than Dame. 
Friends of the Orphans 
Daly said. FOTO members have SAO’s Social Each child has the best situation in “[The students] are fighting already made this trip five Service Club of between four Honduras.” for orphaned and abandoned times. the Year. The Daly siblings and seven sponsors. Senior Caitlin Nichols went children who need a voice,” he 
Daly said the trips in the were originally involved with “I sponsor a kid named on the most recent trip to said. “They get to tell Notre spring are medically focused, FOTO and NPH through their Carlos,” Daly said. “He’s spe-Honduras, and she said it Dame what’s going on abroad.” with students helping in the family. Their father, Dr. Peter cial needs ... Not a lot of peo-helped her be around other surgery center. Students aren’t Daly, helped build the Holy ple think about the kids who students who share her inter-Contact Amanda Gray at allowed to perform the opera-Family Surgery Center in 2003 aren’t aesthetically attractive.” est in helping the orphanages. agray3@nd.edu 


there, but it is more a blog community for anyone,” she 


Blog 
said. “We’ve had a great continued from page 1 response from outside the 
Notre Dame community as and other times we’re sharing well.” places we love.” Baron said the blog has 
Jennings said the blog, which recently received exposure and began in August, is modeled positive feedback from shop-after similar blogs about other keepers featured on the site. areas of the country. She said this has been one of 
“We had heard about similar the most rewarding aspects of blogs in other cities. We working on the project. thought that South Bend could “Getting to know the shop-use one and see if it had 365 keepers and business owners things to do,” she said. has been an aspect of South 
Jennings said the writers Bend that I have gotten to have not had a lack of ideas know. Rachel and myself were for the blog. involved with community rela­
“We have a long list. It is tions last year,” Baron said. harder to find time to write,” “We’ve known local and Notre she said. “I think 365 posts is Dame officials, but we never the goal. That is the name of got to see the business side of the blog. We’re going to do it, it.” no more, no less, unless it is a Roseberry said working on leap year — maybe we’ll do the blog with two other 366.” authors has allowed the group 
Jennings said there is no to maintain daily blog posting. exact science to choosing “Since there are three of us, material for the blog. She said we try to rotate every three being involved in such a proj-days,” she said. “We have com­ect exposes them to additional munication if someone is hav­material. ing a tough week, but the blog 
“We just keep our eyes open is meant for one post a day.” and look at websites. Generally Baron said overall the blog is one thing leads to another,” meant to be not just a tool for she said. “We’ll talk to an Notre Dame students, but a owner of a store and he’ll means for all South Bend resi­mention another store open-dents to understand what the ing.” city has to offer. 
Roseberry said feedback “We really see the blog as from Notre Dame students has not just a way for students to been positive, as has reception get off campus, but for every-from the South Bend commu-one to see local establishments nity as a whole. as what’s happening here,” she 
“I would say Notre Dame said. student reception has been great but somewhat limited. Contact Sam Stryker at We’ve been trying to put it out sstryke1@nd.edu 
page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, November 23, 2010 


Program donates to high school labs 
By ANNA BOARINI 
News Writer 
In early September, Michelle Joyce, a Notre Dame chem­istry and biochemistry faculty member, decided to take her passion for service, education and science and make a dif­ference. 
What resulted was the ND LIGHTS program. LIGHTS stands for “Laboratory Instrumentation Giving Hope To Students.” 
“The program is an initiative that takes lab equipment no longer suitable for our research needs, but that is still considered a good teach­ing tool and putting it into the hands of high school science teachers in underdeveloped schools,” Joyce said. 
The program will initially benefit schools around the country that are connected to 

Notre Dame’s “It takes a lot to or grad stu-Alliance for outft a lab dents develop C a t h o l i c experiments.” 
appropriately. It
Education The collabo­(ACE). makes a huge ration between Eventually, difference to students the Colleges of Joyce would like Science and 
when the correct tools
the program to Engineering 
are there.” 
grow to other and the Office underdeveloped of Sustainability schools, includ-helped begin 
Dr. Michelle Joyce 
ing some in the the ND LIGHTS 
faculty
South Bend program. Each 
Department of chemistry 
area. piece of lab “It takes a lot and biochemistry equipment has 
to outfit a lab appropriately,” Joyce said. “It makes a huge difference to students when the correct tools are there.” 
Joyce knows all too well how hard it can be for teachers to work with insufficient or out­dated equipment, as her father has been a Catholic high school principal for 40 years. 
“These high school teachers work tirelessly with almost nothing,” Joyce said. “This is kind of my way to honor my dad.” 
Due to the nature of research conducted at Notre Dame, professors need to have the most up-to-date equip­ment. This initiative will take outdated equipment as well as tools from retired labs and donate them to high school 



Report 
continued from page 1 
he said. 
SVU is an investigative unit comprised of detectives from the South Bend, St. Joseph County and Mishawaka police depart­ments. It investigates cases of alleged sexual battery and assault, domestic violence and child victimization. It is under the jurisdiction of the Prosecutor’s Office. 
NDSP, a fully authorized, inde­pendent law enforcement agency, finished its investigation of the alleged assault and for­warded it to the Prosecutor’s office Wednesday. The Prosecutor’s Office is now reviewing it and will make a statement after the review is completed. 
That statement will address “the next step in the process: the labs. 
ND LIGHTS has already col­lected six pieces of lab equip­ment at Notre Dame, includ­ing a volt and pH meter, Joyce said. Notre Dame faculty members, if they choose, can also be involved in the process of designing experiments to go along with the donated equip­ment. 
Joyce said once a piece of equipment is deemed a sur­plus item and a charitable donation, an experiment would be designed to go along with basic high school science curriculum and the piece of equipment. ACE teachers would learn the experiments during their training sessions on campus and integrate them into their classrooms. 
“This is our way to con ­tribute to the University’s Catholic mission,” Joyce said. “Professors that donate equip­ment can have their undergrad 
to be deemed 
practical for a high school to maintain and implement in their curricu­lum. The Office of Sustainability ensures all the paperwork is correctly com­pleted and each piece is approved, Joyce said. 
Currently, the program’s goals are more about the quality of the instruments and experiments than their quan­tity. Joyce plans to follow up with all the teachers receiving equipment to gauge how the program is working after it is introduced into the high schools. 
“Right now, the potential is way bigger than we even can see this first year,” Joyce said. 
Contact Anna Boarini at aboari01@saintmarys.edu 
filing of charges, the decision not to file charges or a request for additional investigation of the allegations,” the release stated. 
University spokesman Dennis Brown said the University can­not comment on the specifics of any student disciplinary case due to federal law. The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act protects the privacy of stu­dent records, according to the Department of Education’s web­site. 
“It’s not a matter of refusal, it’s a matter of compliance with the federal law,” Brown said. 
Dvorak addressed the sensi­tive and complex nature of such allegations in his statement. 
“I wish to emphasize that cases involving such allegations are complex and it would be inappropriate to rush to conclu­sions, rather than allowing the thorough review by prosecutors to occur in this matter,” he said. 



SMC study abroad ranked No. 15 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 

The 2010 Open Doors Report, released by the Institute of International Education (IIE), ranked Saint Mary’s College No. 15 among all baccalaureate colleges in the nation for 2008-2009 aca­demic year study abroad pro­grams, according to a press release. 
“Before 2002, Saint Mary’s College had only seven study abroad programs and all but one were in Europe,” Elaine Meyer-Lee, director for the Center for Women’s Intercultural Studies (CWIL), said in a press release. “CWIL has expanded study abroad offerings, creating 17 new pro­grams. The portfolio of pro­grams is varied enough to meet individual students’ needs, including geographical loca­tion, time frame, disciplinary focus, pedagogical model and specific learning outcomes.” 
Recently, the College launched a new program in South Korea, which started with senior and student body president Rachael Chesley. Chesley also spent a semester studying in Rome. 
“Taking the independence and confidence I developed in Rome, I was able to travel abroad and learn more about the Korean culture,” Chesley said. 
She said she had some apprehensions about going to South Korea, but liked the flex­ibility of the program. 
“Before heading to South Korea, I was nervous about being the first and only student to experience this new pro­gram with Saint Mary’s,” Chesley said. “There was not a great deal of information given about the program, and I was not sure about the language barrier, where I was living or what my life would be like there. However, I trusted my gut, branched out, met new people and had an excellent experience.” 
According to Chesley, going abroad is a crucial experience not only in education, but also in life. 
“There is a quote by St. Augustine that says, ‘The world is a book, and those who do not travel read only a page.’ I believe this,” Chesley said. “I always grew up doing road trips with my family, so I real­ized that the world was a big place with lots of different peo­ple and so many diverse things.” 
Through her time in Rome and South Korea, Chesley said she realized the importance of experiencing different parts of the world. 
“Overall, the world is becom­ing a more global society each and every day,” Chesley said. “Studying abroad offered me the opportunity to develop my intercultural competence, com­munication skills and inde­pendence.” 
Chesley is not the only stu­dent who has had multiple experiences with Saint Mary’s study abroad programs. Senior Chelsea Crane spent a year in Ireland, a summer in Nicaragua and two weeks trav­eling in Ecuador. “I heard somewhere that when you go someplace where no one knows you, you become more yourself than ever,” Crane said. “Now that I’ve experienced traveling and liv­ing abroad, I know that to be true and it’s an experience I think every woman, American, human should have.” 
Crane said she picked Ireland because she felt she would be able to assimilate there due to the similarities between the U.S. and Ireland. 
“One of the reasons I decided on Ireland was because they speak English — it would be an easier transition and I was able to make close friends more easily,” Crane said. 
However, Crane said she enjoyed traveling to more exot­ic places because it gave her an appreciation for the every­day amenities of American life. 
“In Nicaragua, I learned to really appreciate things I didn’t realize I should,” Crane said. “For example, having to throw toilet paper into a basket instead of down the loo made me really appreciate the com­monality of working toilets in America.” 
Traveling in unfamiliar terri­tory can be intimidating, but Crane said it also offers moment that can’t be found anywhere else. 
“Hiking around the same islands where the very notion of evolution was born was the experience of a lifetime and I’ll be lucky if I get to experience something like that again,” Crane said. 
For both Chesley and Crane, going abroad was a part of their college career they won’t forget. 
“Studying abroad has allowed me the distinct oppor­tunity to learn more about myself, my interests, my pas­sions and the world around me,” Chesley said. 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 

Tuesday, November 23, 2010 The Observer  NEWS page 5 

Discount 
continued from page 1 
if you had to buy something to get into it, and it would never work if you had to carry around something extra,” she said. “The stipulation for joining the pro­gram is that you must be eligible for the discount just by showing ID.” 
Soler said students who pres­ent a Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s College or Holy Cross student identification card could receive the discounts. 
“The way we’ve done this is to work with Holy Cross and Saint Mary’s so it’s not just a Notre Dame [program], but a college program,” she said. 
Many businesses were invited to apply, and there was immedi­ately a strong response, LeStrange said. 
“We were able to send out over 100 invites to local busi­nesses asking them to join the Students for South Bend pro­gram, and within the first month 


Associated Press 

ATLANTA — The nation’s airport security chief pleaded with Thanksgiving travelers for understanding and urged them not to boycott full-body scans on Wednesday, lest their protest snarl what is already one of the busiest, most stress­ful flying days of the year. 
Transportation Security Administration chief John Pistole said Monday that such delaying actions would only “tie up people who want to go home and see their loved ones.” 
“We all wish we lived in a world where security proce­dures at airports weren’t nec­essary,” he said, “but that just isn’t the case.” 
He noted the alleged attempt by a Nigerian with explosives in his underwear to bring down a plane over Detroit last Christmas. 
Despite tough talk on the Internet, there was little if any indication of a passenger revolt Monday at many major 
U.S. airports, with very few people declining the X-ray scan that can peer through their clothes. Those who refuse are subject to a pat-down search that includes the crotch and chest. 
Many travelers said that the scans and the pat-down were not much of an inconvenience, and that the stepped-up meas­ures made them feel safer and were, in any case, unavoid­able. 
“Whatever keeps the country safe, I just don’t have a prob­lem with,” Leah Martin, 50, of Houston, said as she waited to go through security at the Atlanta airport. 
At Chicago’s O’Hare Airport, Gehno Sanchez, a 38-year-old from San Francisco who works in marketing, said he doesn’t mind the full-body scans. “I mean, they may make you feel like a criminal for a minute, but I’d rather do that than someone touching me,” he said. 
A loosely organized Internet campaign is urging people to refuse the scans on Wednesday in what is being called National Opt-Out Day. The extra time needed to pat down people could cause a cascade of delays at dozens of major airports, including those in New York, Los Angeles, Chicago and Atlanta. 
“Just one or two recalcitrant passengers at an airport is all it takes to cause huge delays,” said Paul Ruden, a spokesman for the American Society of Travel Agents, which has warned its more than 8,000 members about delays. “It doesn’t take much to mess things up anyway.” 
More than 400 imaging units are being used at about 70 air­ports. Since the new proce­dures began Nov. 1, 34 million travelers have gone through checkpoints and less than 3 percent are patted down, according to the TSA. 
At the White House, press secretary Robert Gibbs said the government is “desperate­ly” trying to balance security and privacy and will take the public’s concerns and com­plaints into account as it eval­uates the new, more stringent boarding checks. 
The American Civil Liberties Union has received more than 600 complaints over three weeks from passengers who say they were subjected to humiliating pat-downs at U.S. airports, and the pace is accel­erating, according to ACLU legislative counsel Christopher Calabrese. 
“It really drives home how invasive it is and unhappy they are,” he said. 
Ricky D. McCoy, a TSA screener and president of a union local in Illinois and Wisconsin, said the atmos­phere has changed in the past two weeks for officers in his region. Since word of the pat-downs hit the headlines, offi­cers have been punched, pushed or shoved six times after they explained what would be happening, McCoy said. 
“We have major problems because basically TSA never educated the public on what was going on,” he said. “Our agency pretty much just threw the new search techniques out there.” 
Stories of alleged heavy-handed treatment by TSA agents captured people’s imagination. 
A bladder cancer survivor from Michigan who wears a bag that collects his urine said its contents spilled on his clothing after a security agent at a Detroit airport patted him down roughly. 
Tom Sawyer, a 61-year-old retired special education teacher, said the Nov. 7 experi­ence left him in tears. “I was absolutely humiliated. I could-n’t even speak,” he told MSNBC.com. 
During an appearance on CBS, the TSA’s Pistole expressed “great concern over anybody who feels like they have not been treated properly or had something embarrass­ing” happen. 
A video showing a shirtless young boy resisting a pat-down at Salt Lake City’s air­port has become a YouTube sensation and led to demands for an investigation from Rep. Jason Chaffetz, R-Utah, an outspoken critic of TSA screening methods. The video of the unidentified boy was shot Friday by a bystander with a cell phone. 
The TSA said in a blog post­ing that nobody has to disrobe at an airport checkpoint apart from removing shoes and jack­ets. According to the TSA, the boy was being searched because he triggered an alarm inside a metal detector, and his father removed the young­ster’s shirt to speed up the screening. 
“That’s it. No complaints were filed and the father was standing by his son for the entire procedure,” said the posting by “Blogger Bob” of the TSA Blog Team. 
The boycott campaign was launched Nov. 8 by Brian Sodergren, who lives in Ashburn, Va., and works in the health care industry. 
“I just don’t think the gov­ernment has the right to look under people’s clothes with no reasonable cause, no suspicion other than purchasing a plane ticket,” he said in an interview with The Associated Press. 
He said he has no idea how many passengers plan to opt out, but added: “I am absolutely amazed at the response and how people have taken to it. I never would have predicted it. I think it hit a nerve.” 


Perley 
continued from page 1 
However, this hope recently received a blow when the school learned it would lose after-school funding at the end of summer 2011. As the program searches for more funding, Notre Dame students have volunteered at Perley on weekday afternoons. 
“While the University and groups in the community are working to find funding to revive the arts program, which had depended on this money, there is no one to facilitate the after-school homework sessions, which teach­ers had relied on to make sure students were completing home­work and had a good grasp on the material,” Sokas said. “These homework sessions were integral in Perley meeting its 65 percent passing benchmark, and the prin­cipal has told me that they will be equally important in reaching their goal this year.” 
Three to four Notre Dame stu­dents work at Perley for an hour Monday through Thursday to help students with their homework while they wait for the bus to the local Boys and Girls Club. 
“We are here at Notre Dame because we value education,” Sokas said. “Now we have the opportunity to get off campus into the schools.” 
Senior Meaghan Crowley became involved in the programs at Perley as part of a minor in Education, Schooling and Society (ESS). Crowley is analyzing the effect of art on an institution for her senior thesis. 
The South Bend School Corporation began its magnet pro­grams to encourage more racial equality in the school system and Perley became a fine arts magnet in 2007, Crowley said. 
“The difference is now the kids have more art on a daily basis and in the after-school program,” Crowley said. “Art is integrated in to the classroom, so instead of having a normal math lesson or a normal history lesson the kids might draw or paint to engage what they are doing.” 
When Perley’s grant expires, the school will be left without money that was crucial to running the programs. More expensive cours­es like cooking were already replaced with classes that use fewer resources, such as move­ment, and the school will rely on volunteers to support the pro­gram, Crowley said. 
“The after-school programs were funded so area artists would we have gathered about 35 par­ticipants,” LeStrange said. “All participants will receive a win­dow decal marking their partici­pation in the program at the start of next semester.” 
The group of businesses com­mitted to the program includes restaurants like Studebagels and Main St. Grille as well as service providers like the South Bend Museum of Art and Hair Crafters Day Spa Salon. LeStrange said the focus on local businesses could help strength­en the relationship between stu­dents and the community. 
“I think that a stable, commer­cial relationship between local business and students is a cru­cial component of strengthening community relations,” she said. “I think that ultimately, this is a great way for Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross to bridge the gap between college stu­dents and South Bend residents that is positive and supportive of what South Bend has to offer.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
come in and work with the kids,” Crowley said. “A real artist or bal­let teacher would come in each week.” 
Volunteers from Notre Dame are already planning how they can contribute to the fine arts cur­riculum next semester by teaching new classes after school, Sokas said. 
The after-school program was an important component of fine arts at Perley. 
“I can tell that the kids are real­ly, really motivated,” Crowley said. “The discipline problems in the school have gone down because the kids want to be in the after-school program.” 
Perley students signed up for the after-school program with no charge but applied for only a cer­tain number of spots. After one disciplinary mistake, a student would lose his or her spot, and the space would be given to another child on the program waiting list. 
Junior Shannon Crotty spent Monday afternoon helping ele­mentary students at Perley with their homework. 
“In all honestly, I have not done as much service as I would like to here,” Crotty said. “I heard about this opportunity through student government and had free time in my schedule. I love working with kids so it worked perfectly.” 
Perley is the closest elementary school to Notre Dame, and stu­dents could learn more about the South Bend community close to campus by volunteering at the school, Crotty said. 
“This is an opportunity to go out and see the community as well,” Crotty said. 
Perley enrolled almost 300 stu­dents from the local area, and a majority of these students repre­sented minorities and lower-income families, according to the Indiana Board of Education. 
“We are constantly looking for new ways to establish relation­ships in the community that can be sustained,” Sokas said. 
The beND campaign launched by this year’s student government was an effort to address off-cam­pus concerns and improve com­munity relations with the larger South Bend area. 
“It is an easy way for us to get into the school and remember that things like learning how to read are integral for the rest of our lives,” Sokas said. “Watching these kids love [learning] reminds me of how lucky I am to have an education. I want them to grow up having the same opportunities.” 

Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 




TSA warns against boycott 
The Observer 


Viewpoint 
page 6 Tuesday, November 23, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Thanks for that 

Writing for Scene and Sports gives me the welcome opportunity to explore my many passions for The Observer on a regular basis. With Thanksgiving only days away, I wish to use this space to give thanks for my many sports and 
Maija Gustin 
pop culture bless­ings of the last sev-Assistant eral months, for Scene Editor which I am incred­ibly thankful. 
I am thankful for “Harry Potter.” It may seem mundane to some, but Harry has been my friend since the ripe age of 8, growing up with me. Though the books will always be closest to my heart, I had no problems dressing up and heading to the theater at midnight last Thursday night (or Friday morning) to see a film that I can finally say does justice to the books. And I am thankful that the ride is not quite over yet. 
I am thankful for two wins in a row from the Irish football team. We all know this season has been tough. But rushing the field after the Utah win was, without a doubt, one of the high­lights of my time at Notre Dame. And, as a Chicago Cubs fan, I have no trou­ble saying, “Next year is the year.” 
I am thankful for Gwyneth Paltrow’s guest spot on “Glee.” “Glee” was once one of my favorite shows, consistently turning out fantastic television week after week. Despite being severely lack­luster this season, I watch “Glee” every week, waiting for the moment when it will again inspire me to jump up and sing along. That moment came in last week’s episode, when Gwyneth Paltrow rocked the episode and reinstilled my faith in “Glee.” Has it regained its for­mer glory yet? Nope. But the episode gave me hope that, one day, it just might. 
I am thankful for the 2010 FIFA World Cup, which provided two fantas­tic weeks of soccer-watching that made my summer great. 
I am thankful for what promises to be a fantastic holiday movie season. Come December, you will find me sitting in the movie theater watching “Black Swan” or “The Tempest” or “Tron: Legacy” or a handful of other films that make me almost as excited as presents under the Christmas tree. 
I am thankful that, as of Friday, the day after Thanksgiving, I can officially start playing Christmas music all the time. 
I am thankful for the Chicago Bears’ 7-3 record. Despite Jay Cutler’s supreme inconsistency, the Bears are at the top of the NFC North and, should a good quarterback ever show up, have the potential to be a truly fantastic team. 
I am thankful for my can’t-miss weekly TV shows, which provide a little structure to my sometimes-chaotic life. That means you, “Modern Family,” “Parenthood” and “The Vampire Diaries.” 
I am thankful for “Bill Brink,” the Pandora playlist lovingly crafted by the man himself, which helps the Observer staff get through many long nights with relative sanity. 
And, most of all, I am thankful for my friends, my family, my Notre Dame family and the fantastic Observer staff that I have the pleasure to work with every day. You guys make working until the wee hours of the morning in the South Dining Hall basement more enjoyable than it has any right to be. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 

Why MIMs can help move America forward 
It’s hard to believe how anyone could’ve ever predicted President Obama’s term in office as a “post partisan” era. If anything, President Obama’s term seems to be the beginning of an era in American politics with exceptionally high levels of parti-
Adam Newman 
sanship. This new partisanship has Guest perpetuated an old Columnist Washington prob­lem: disinterest in comprehensive reforms. This has hurt America’s ability as a country to move for­ward, because solutions to issues such as rising healthcare costs, climate change, a broken immigration and education system and an increasing national debt are almost never implemented or even legis­lated. It seems like America has lost its ability to solve its most pressing problems. 
I believe that this partisanship can be mitigated and America’s problems solved by politicians I call “MIMs.” MIM is an acronym for moderates, independents and mavericks. Each is different respec­tively, but all can play a role in decreasing the bitter partisanship between political parties, allowing America to move for­ward. 
The first ‘M’ in “MIM” stands for moder­ate. Moderates are rare in politics because extremes are more active in elec­tion primaries than moderates, leading to the nomination and usually election of extreme candidates. This dynamic allowed for the Tea Partier Christine O’Donnell to win over moderate Mike Castle in the Delaware Republican Primary. 
Moderate Republicans and Democrats are significant because they’re more likely than extremes to improve their party’s legislation to attract votes from the other party, propose bi-partisan legislation and vote for initiatives offered by the other party. Moderate Republicans have already helped President Obama by voting for the 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
stimulus and financial reform. If Obama is to successfully legislate his agenda to solve America’s most pressing problems, he will need to win the support of moder­ates from both parties. 
The next part of the MIM is the Independent. Independents in politics are rarer than moderates, but are valuable because they have the freedom to create their own agenda instead of basing it on the wishes of party bosses. The best example of an independent politician is New York City Mayor Michael Bloomberg. While many politicians avoid talking about long-term problems, Michael Bloomberg will speak both openly and accurately about them. 
As more people lose faith in both politi­cal parties to offer real solutions, an inde­pendent Bloomberg running for president in 2012 could occur. Bloomberg could enter the race as a fresh alternative to President Obama and the Republican nominee, and could run on hot button issues such immigration and education reform. While Bloomberg has almost no chance of winning, he could propel these issues into the public sphere whereupon the new President will more likely act on them, similar to how independent Ross Perot campaigned on deficit reduction in 1992. 
The final part of the MIM is the “maver­ick,” a political figure who shows inde­pendence from their party on certain issues. The most notable maverick in Washington is currently Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina. Even though Graham is a conservative, he has shown independence from the Republican Party by voting for both of Obama’s Supreme Court nominees, helping to write the failed climate change bill with Democratic Sen. John Kerry and Independent Sen. Joe Lieberman and working on immigration reform with Democratic Senator Chuck Schumer. Graham has also shown independence from the Republicans not only by not engaging in the “name calling” that Republican leaders have used the past two years, but also for his civility. He told Elena Kagan at her nomination: “There is no doubt in my mind that you are a liberal person, that applies as are most of the people [Democratic senators] on the other side, and I respect them, and I respect you.” Lindsay Graham’s actions and civili­ty have made him a Tea Party target, but this has not stopped him from continuing his independence from the Republican Party. 
America would be a better place if more MIMs were elected into office. Republicans should have realized that moderate Mike Castle would have been a more electable and a better senator than Christine O’Donnell. An independent pres­idential candidacy waged by Michael Bloomberg in 2012 could pressure the president in 2012 to take up the hot but­ton issues that Bloomberg campaigned on. Finally, Democrats in South Carolina should prepare to re-elect Lindsay Graham in 2014. He will have a tough re­election primary because of his independ­ence from the Republican Party. Democrats should realize this and vote to make sure that the Republican maverick, and ultimately a good man, is re-elected. 
America needs nothing less than a MIM revolution to propel both Democratic and Republican MIMs into the political arena to solve America’s most pressing prob­lems. For America’s best days to be ahead of us, our worst political day must be behind us. Let’s hope Americans realize this and start voting for MIMs in greater numbers before it’s too late. 
Adam Newman is a sophomore major­ing in business. He can be reached at anewman3@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The best index to a person’scharacter is 
(a)
 how he treats people who can’tdo him any good, and

(b)
 how he treats people who can’tfight back.” 


Abigail van Buren 
U.S. advice columnist 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Returning violence for violencemultiplies violence, adding deeperdarkness to a night already devoidof stars ... Hate cannot drive out hate: only love can do that.” 
Martin Luther King, Jr. 
U.S. civil rights leader 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Tuesday, November 23, 2010 page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Satirical misfires 
I was greatly disappointed with Ryan Williams’s latest piece, “The evil lurking in Harry Potter.” (Nov. 18) I tried to read it in light of the generally high standard of his writing; I can only conclude that it was a satirical misfire. (Even the Letter to the Editor regarding this piece on Friday all in all had higher irony content!) One of the first rules of satire is to seriously engage with the arguments of those one lam­poons. Is Benedict quoted saying anything like, “The books unabashedly advocate witchcraft and Satanism while openly blaspheming our Lord Jesus Christ?” Not one of his other interlocutors is quoted saying anything about Harry Potter mock­ing the Bible. Of course, behind this façade of moderation hides anti-intellectual big­otry, but one still would have hoped for better from Williams. It is a signal depar­ture from his previous excellent satirical pieces. 
Despite my disagreements with Williams’ conservative beliefs, I have always found his writing incisive and humorous. Consider his article on Newt Gingrich’s visit (“Where’s the protest?” Sept. 16). Plenty of people (look at the responses on the website!) believed that he was attacking the former Congressman, little suspecting the Aristophonic play here. For instance, Williams’ tongue-in­cheek conflates the Church’s opposition to public support of abortion with its con­demnation of individual sins such as adul­tery. Or consider his hyperbolic humor in “chastising” the students who protested President Obama’s visit: 
“You may argue that the circumstances are different this time, because Notre Dame is not honoring the former speaker with a degree, as it awarded Obama. But the people who opposed his presence on campus were not just upset about the decision to award him an honorary degree.” 
As a columnist for a publication of The Observer’s caliber, I am sure that he knew plenty of students involved with the Obama protests (despite actually not even being a student here at the time), that he actually paid attention to what they said, and therefore expected everyone to recog­nize the clear irony of his tone; every sin­gle one of the undergrads I know who protested made it quite clear that indeed they were primarily protesting the award of an honorary degree to Obama. 
Still, in the column title “freethinker,” the old delicious irony shines again; after all, one of the most famous men to take this label was Voltaire, a man who decid­edly did not think freely when it came to Jews and the equality of races. 
Sincerely, 
Paul Prezzia 
grad student off campus Nov. 22 



TSA aggression 
Anyone who wishes to fly in the United States must now be prepared to consent to either a virtual strip search or a pat-down in which TSA screeners touch a person’s genitals. Both types of searches are utterly intolerable and do nothing to actually increase security. Even more alarming is the general public’s willing­ness to uncritically surrender its dignity to the government’s latest form of securi­ty theater at airports. 
Under the new program, TSA officers may order passengers to be scanned by machines which see through a person’s clothes and create an image of the per­son’s naked body. An agent who never sees the passengers in person views the images from a remote location, but this does not change the fact that body scans are literally the digital equivalent of strip searches. There is a serious risk, of course, that these nude images will be recorded in some way, despite TSA’s unconvincing protestations to the con­trary. Moreover, the long-term safety of these machines has not been conclusively established. 
Anyone who refuses a body scan will receive an “enhanced” pat-down, a mis­leading euphemism for an aggressive physical search which is supposed to be every bit as revealing as a scan. The level of touching involved in these new pat-downs has been described by some pas­sengers as amounting to molestation. Thus, once the new screening methods have been completely phased in, TSA officers will either view travelers’ geni­tals or fondle them. 
These techniques do not improve safety. A Government Accountability Office report found that body scanners might not have detected the underwear bomb which nearly brought down a Detroit-bound flight last Christmas. Even assum­ing for the sake of argument that these machines will prevent people from smug­gling anything underneath their clothing, there are still many other ways for ter­rorists to defeat airport security. It is no secret, for instance, that TSA screeners have generally performed miserably when simulated bombs have been sent through security checkpoints, a fact of which al-Qaeda is surely aware. Moreover, not even the most sophisticat­ed body scanner can detect weapons or explosives in body cavities, which is problematic because an al-Qaeda suicide bomber with explosives concealed in his rectum recently attempted to assassinate a Saudi prince. If a terrorist were to attempt a similar attack on an aircraft, would we allow TSA to conduct cavity searches on all who fly? 
At most, these new screening measures present a truly minimal inconvenience for would-be terrorists, who will simply find other ways to carry out attacks. They also send an unmistakable message to the world that terrorism works. America’s enemies will surely be amused that Americans are so fearful that they are now effectively strip searching and groping one another at airports in the naïve belief that such measures will pre­vent another attack. 
The threat posed by terrorism must not be minimized, but TSA’s patently demeaning and invasive screening tech­niques serve no purpose other than cre­ating the illusion that security is better than it actually is. Too many people will unquestioningly accept whatever indigni­ties the government imposes under the dangerously vague justification of nation­al security, and law-abiding citizens ought not to be imaged in the nude, touched inappropriately, or otherwise violated as a prerequisite for flying. The very purpose of having constitutional protection from unreasonable searches and seizures by the government is to pre­vent the honor and dignity of the average person from being so egregiously defiled. 
The American public must not blindly acquiesce to these Orwellian measures, which do not realistically make air travel any safer. It is only through maintained and emphatic public opposition that these measures will be meaningfully reformed. 
Colin Littlefield 
senior Fisher Hall Nov. 18 


To study or not to study ... 

Whether ‘tis nobler in the mind to work 
the dots and loops of Arabic script, or to take pencil against a field of electromagnetic forces 
and, in calculations, quantify them. To die — to sleep — 
no more — and by a sleep to say we ignore the grades and the trivial values of society's academia 
that success is heir to — Ah! 'tis a consummation 
devoutly to be wished. To die, to sleep ... 
To sleep, perchance to dream. Ay, there's the rub, 
for in that sleep of academic irresponsibility what dreams may come, 
when we have shuffled off this tragic work ethic, 
must give us pause. There's the respect 
that makes calamity of a college life. 
For who would bear the sleeplessness and lack of time, the incoherent TAs, the chauvinistic professors, the pangs of despised lunch, the cruel RA, the injustice of Res Life, and the snide remarks that the less intelligent of us endure, when one oneself might his quietus make with a burdened bolster? Who would classes bear, to study and labor under a wearying workload, but that the dread of societal failure, the pitifully evinced state in whose bourn any poor resident is despised, puzzles the will and makes us rather bear those ills we have than fly to others that we know not of? 
Thus conformation doth make cowards of us all, and thus the native hue of independence and self-formation 
is sicklied o'er with the pale cast of rationality, and enterprises of great pith and moment with this regard their currents turn awry, and lose the name of action. — Yet soft you now! The call of physics! Mine major, in thy tests be my cruel studies remembered. 
Anne Conover 
sophomore Pasquerilla East Hall Nov. 22 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 



Scene
page 8 Tuesday, November 23, 2010 

BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 


Scene
Tuesday, November 23, 2010 page 9 


I prescribe to a certain behavior I did that happen? like to call “borrowing beyond bor-Step 8: Your family member calls ders.” This behavior usually is at its you and asks, “Have you seen my zenith at the beginning of the school (insert name of accessory here) that I year and, of course, during the holi-lent you?” 
days, especial-“Oh no,” you reply. “Maybe I left it 
ly at in my room, or maybe it somehow got
Felicia Caponigri 

Thanksgiving. wrapped in one of my sweaters and The steps of therefore accidentally came to cam-
Scene Writer 

this behavior pus with me. Oops, here it is! I am so 
common to any sorry. Of course I’ll bring it back at fashion worshipper usually go some-Christmas.” thing like this: Step 9: You wear 
Step 1: While 

said accessory, look imagining a per-
fabulous and then fect outfit you’ll 
give your family put together over 
member an extra these last weeks 
big Christmas gift leading up to 
to atone for your finals you realize 
“borrowing.” Sound you are missing 
familiar? I thought one key accessory. 
so. Step 2: As you 
This behavior is think more about 
common to all the key accessory 
walks of the fash­you realize that it 
ionable life and won’t just go with 
indeed has even that one outfit that 
created its own will inspire you to 
look, which this ace your presenta­
author has seen in tion, but that it 
the flesh whilst will also go with 
studying away in that lovely dress 
the Bibliothèque you are planning 
Nationale de Paris. to wear to the 
A pair of lived-in dorm holiday jeans with a roomy party. sweater may be 
Step 3: Suddenly your go-to studying you realize, “Wait, I’ve seen that outfit, but tack on your grandmoth­accessory before! It’s in my er’s sparkling brooch and not only do sister’s/mother’s/grandmother’s/aunt’s you have something shiny to enliven /first cousin once-removed/friend’s your philosophy reading, but you are closet!” also the epitome of “intellectual 
Step 4: “Aha,” you think. “How con-bohemian chic.” venient!” I am going home for The brooch is an elegant staple that Thanksgiving! I can easily borrow comes in a variety of sizes and colors. said accessory 
Whether bijou or for the last few 
the real thing, it can weeks of the 
dress up a casual semester. After 
outfit or be the ulti­all, no one will 
mate jewelry that miss their 
compliments a holi­favorite 
day frock. wardrobe 
Pin it close to your member. 
collarbone and pair Step 5: Over 
it with understated turkey and 
post earrings, or mashed pota­
use it to emphasize toes you 
that unique part of exchange extra your dress or jacket niceties. In the by pinning it to the midst of passing the cranberries you lapel or decorative ribbon. If you casually mention to that certain fami-don’t find it while riffling through a ly member how much you love their family closet, Urban Outfitters is style, especially that one piece that offering them for $9.99. At these would fit so perfectly into your own prices, “borrowing beyond borders” fashion fiesta. may become a thing of the past — 
Step 6: You ask to borrow said well, at least until your roommate accessory, but only for one night sees it. while you see your old friends for a movie and popcorn. The views expressed in this column 
Step 7: You leave to catch the flight are those of the author and not back to campus after the holiday and necessarily those of The Observer. somehow that prized accessory has Contact Felicia Caponigri at found its way into your luggage. How fcaponig@nd.edu 


BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, November 23, 2010 
several big rights by forcing Currier up against the ropes 

Chong 
and keeping her in tight. 
continued from page 16 
Perron 
Both boxers came into the fight not wanting to make the first mistake. As a result, neither side in the first round threw many punches. 
Chong came out in the second round with the mindset of going after Perron. By doing this, Chong dominated the round, forcing Perron into the corner on multiple occasions. 
Knowing she had to put up a better fight in the final round, Perron landed body shot after body shot on Chong, forcing her opponent to skip in circles around her. The swift style of Chong prevailed, as she defeat­ed Perron in a split decision. 
Maggie “One Man Wolfpack” Duffy def. Carolyn “Sweet Dee” Sever 
Hindered by an early nose injury, Duffy used her quick and athletic style to defeat Sever by a split decision. 
The first and second rounds had the same storyline — Sever throwing a host of power punches while the agile Duffy combated them with quick body shots. 
Sever threw quicker punches in the third round, knowing 
In the third round, Koegel appeared to fatigue, and Currier used her wingspan to land long jabs, and appeared to win the round. Koegel’s initial effort, though, was enough for the victory. 
Carleigh “Boom Goes the Dynamite” Moore def. Erin “Feel the” Byrne 
Both fighters came out on the defensive, blocking most of each other’s punches in a somewhat reserved first round, although Byrne was able to get in some big shots to the head of Moore. 
The second round was much more aggressive on both sides. Moore was able to find more success with the sudden change of pace, but Byrne was still able to land several jabs to the head. 
Moore found her game in the final round, as she was able to block most of Byrne’s punches and deliver several big hits to the head of her opponent. 
That late rally seemed to put Moore over the top, and she won by split decision. 
Anne “The Southern Belleringer” Allare def. Michelle “The Pink Power Ranger” Notardonato 
The last fight of the night in Ring A was a true contrast 

she and  was down needed to  “Being a part of  of styles. In the  first  
make a  combat.  Baraka Bouts has been  r  o u  n  d  ,  
However, it was too little, too late, as Duffy was vic­torious in the  an awesome experience, it feels good to go out with a  N o t a r d o n a t o moved quickly, landing flur-ries of quick  
end.  win.”  punches using  and the  
Laura “Stuntin’ Like Mufassa”  Holly “Hacksaw” Hinz  entire ring to open up  
Semeraro  def.  senior  Allare. Allare,  
Jill  “Just  Jill”  on  the  other  
Giunco  hand, stayed  
Semeraro and  in the center  

Giunco could be described as of the ring and was able to land mirror-image boxers. Both a handful of hard blows. used full arm extension body Notardonato blocked most of punches that were neither Allare’s punches early in the rapid nor forceful. This style second round, and continued to lasted only one round. land quick body blows. Allare 
The second and third rounds showed more energy in the sec-were filled with Semeraro and ond half of the round, landing Giunco trying to win the offen-several huge punches that put sive battle, as neither seemed Notardonato on the run. to want to play defense for Allare landed almost of the long. By both using a steady punches in the final round, and diet of body and head shots, the took control of the contest. physical aspect of the sport was Notardonato rallied late but it taking a toll on the boxers. By a was not enough, as Allare won split decision, Semeraro was by split decision. deemed victorious. 
Justine “Insane” Murnane Maureen “The Mongrel” def. Mariana “Chupacabras” Koegel def. Courtney “The Fonseca Cobra” Currier In a unanimous victory, sen­
Koegel’s early dominance and ior Murnane came out of the strong punching allowed her to gate on the offensive, showing defeat Currier in a unanimous her resolve right from the out-decision. set. 
Both fighters came out “I still have a long way to go strong, throwing a barrage of with technique, but I was punches early, with little regard determined to enter the ring for defense. In the second and use everything I had round, Koegel was able to land learned in the last two and a half months,” the first-year fighter said. “I just had to believe that I could do it. 
In the second round, Fonseca retaliated with a massive blow that knocked Murnane’s face-guard loose, but Murnane remained poised and finished out the fight with a steady third round, showing no signs of her previous nerves. 
“I had been nervous for days before the bouts, but once I got into the ring it was just like in practice,” Murnane said. “I was calm, but excited. I could hear my friends cheering for me the whole time. It helped me keep in mind the great cause that we were all contributing to.” 
Megan “Mick” Zagger def. Deborah “The O’Nihilator” Olmstead 
In yet another unanimous vic­tory, the young enthusiastic Zagger started attacking from the first bell. Though Zagger said she was concerned about facing Olmstead, a three-year veteran to the Bouts, the soph­omore was certainly not cau­tious in the ring. 
“You get a lot more confident when you’re all dressed in the gear with the gloves on,” Zagger said. “My strategy was to throw lots of jabs and body shots to mix it up and get as many points as possible.” 
In the second round, Zagger did just that, with an incredible round that stunned the more experienced Olmstead. Both boxers showed impressive energy in the third, but Zagger stayed on top for the vast majority of the contest. As far as the outcome, Zagger was pleasantly surprised. 
“I never would have expected a unanimous win, but my coach and corner captain were so enthusiastic the whole time and kept saying I was being intense,” she said. “So despite how tired I was, I was rather confident that I would win.” 
Breanna “Don’t Stop BRE-liev­ing” Stachowski def. Claire “Cuddly Bear” Cotter 
Stachowski, who ultimately took the fight in unanimous fashion, showed strategic con­trol in the first round. Eventually, though, she started taking advantage of Cotter’s lapses in blocking, which led to a stellar second round for the Welsh Family junior. 
“My strategy was to just make it through all three rounds without getting knocked out,” Stachowski said. “I heard Claire was a great boxer and she really put up a tough fight.” 
Stachowski hopes to continue in the sport next year, and rec­ommends the Bouts to anyone considering it. 
“The two plus months of training and learning how to box was an awesome experi­ence,” Stachowski said. “The time commitment is worth it, and it is very unlikely you’ll ever get another opportunity in your life to learn this sport.” bit. In the end though, Hinz 

outlasted Nypaver with her Viviana “So Do I!” Kim def. remarkable endurance in this Kat “I Have a Green Card” split-decision victory. Rodriguez Both fighters put their 
In a battle of co-captains, notable agility to good use in Kim bested Rodriguez in a tight the fight, making for a very split-decision contest. Both close contest. Ultimately fighters showed astonishing though, Hinz showed why her quickness throughout the fight, Baraka Bouts record is 3-0 especially Kim, who managed with her strategic pacing and to force Rodriguez into corners endurance, which paid off in several times throughout. the third round. The Michigan Though it was Kim’s third year native credited her opponent in bouts, it was her first win. As with the closest match she has far as strategy goes, Kim said ever fought and was overall her experience taught her to be grateful for her experience practical going into the fight. with the program. 
“Honestly, it doesn’t really “Being a part of Baraka Bouts matter what your strategy is a has been an awesome experi­lot of times because once you ence these last three years,” get inside the ring, everything Hinz said. “It feels great to go changes,” the senior said. “I out with a win.” had all these combinations I wanted to throw, different Anna “Thunda Punch” Dwyer movements I wanted to use, but def. Jenny “The Dahminator” all I remember doing was Dahm throwing ones and twos and Though Dahm possessed a punching through my oppo-significant height advantage, nent’s punches instead of mov-Dwyer was clearly not intimi­ing my head.” dated as she ended the night 
Though the bout was certain-with a unanimous victory, ly an intense one, Rodriguez bringing her Baraka Bouts and Kim kept it lighthearted at career record to 4-0. As this times. year’s co-president of Baraka 
“At one point we both tried to Bouts, Dwyer showed her expe­fake each other out and then rience throughout the fight, slipped each other’s fakes at especially with her defense and the same exact moment,” Kim stamina. said. “We were just smiling and Even when Dahm landed a laughing at each other through series of solid punches in the our head gears second round, and mouth Dwyer guards.” “I could hear my remained in 
friends cheering for me motion and in 

Kat “-astro-control, and her 
the whole time. It

phe” Leach high energy def. Jen “Psy” helped me keep in level in the 
Coe mind the great cause third was evi-
L e a c h dence of her 
that we were all

grabbed hold of years of experi­the momentum contributing to.” ence in the from the start sport. Dwyer’s in what would commitment to 
Justine “Insane” Murnane 

wind up being a Baraka Bouts is 
senior

split -decision founded not victory for the only on her love Walsh Hall of the sport but sophomore. As a first-year on her dedication to the Holy fighter, Leach said she focused Cross mission in Uganda, on her technique during the where she studied abroad. bout, and it paid off. “I have meant a lot of amaz­
“The captains and coaches ing people through the boxing are great at getting us in shape program — fellow boxers, and teaching us how to box,” coaches, staff, alumni, Holy Leach said. “I just wanted to be Cross fathers, brothers and sis-confident and focus on doing ters both here and in Uganda the simple things well.” and students in Uganda,” the 
In the second round, Coe took New York native said. “Notre back much of that momentum, Dame is known for its commu­but Leach was strong defen-nity spirit, and this is magnified sively and stayed mobile for the within the boxing programs.” remainder of the fight. The Dwyer’s unanimous victory in third round continued with her final match represented Leach holding strong and much more than just one fight showing a poise characteristic — it was a culmination of four of a more experienced fighter, years of training, a commit-which earned the Illinois native ment to the Holy Cross Mission her first Baraka Bouts victory. in East Africa and a year of 
leadership of the program. Holly “Hacksaw” Hinz def. Christina “Make You Quaver” Nypaver Contact Jack Yusko at 
Though Holly “Hacksaw” jyusko@nd.edu, Adam Llorens Hinz is known in the Notre at allorens@nd.edu, Jack Dame boxing community to Hefferon at whefferon@nd.edu “break faces”, Nypaver man-and Kelsey Manning at aged to make her quiver a little kmannin3@nd.edu 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Some lines from the best Neal: If I wanted a joke, I'd follow Thanksgiving movie of all time... you into the john and watch you

PERSONAL FOR SALE take a leak. Now are you gonna 
help me or are you gonna stand UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? If you or someone you care about GREAT LOCATION: Neal: What's the flight situation? there like a slab of meat with mit­
has been sexually assaulted, we tens? Don't go it alone. Notre Dame has can help. For more information, visit House for sale/rent on Angela. Del: Simple. There's no way on many resources in place to assist Notre Dame's website: Happy Thanksgiving errybody! earth we're going to get out of here Neal: Are you trying to start a fight? you. If you or someone you love http://csap.nd.edu. 2.5K sq ft home. 4BR 3.5BA. tonight. We'd have more luck play-Del: No. I'm simply stating a fact. needs confidential support or assis-Purchase price of $347,500. Perfect ing pickup sticks with our butt-That's all. You fidget with your nuts tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at rental for faculty/staff $1,250 per cheeks than we will getting a flight a lot. 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For month plus utilities. out of here before daybreak. Neal: You know what'd make me more information, visit ND's website happy? at: Call 574-232-2211. Photos avail-Del: Another couple of balls, and an http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. able on the web at 610.sbrp.us extra set of fingers? ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Tuesday, November 23, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 




Irish come up short at NCAA Championships 
By MAIJA GUSTIN 
Sports Writer 
In the 31-team field at Monday’s NCAA men’s cross country National Championship at Indiana State University in Terre Haute, Indiana, the Irish finished 25th overall with 571 points and concluded their 2010 sea­son. 
In his 26 years as head coach, Joe Piane has led Notre Dame to 20 NCAA Championship events. The team qualified with at-large points that it had earned over the course of the season. 
The Notre Dame women fin­ished 23rd of 31 teams at the 2009 championships, but the men were absent. The men’s last visit to the NCAA Championships was in 2008, where they placed 19th over­all. The Irish women did not qualify for the NCAAs this year. 
Oklahoma State, Florida State, Wisconsin, Stanford and Oklahoma rounded out the top five teams in the men’s divi­sion this year. 
The Irish went into the race with fresh legs after taking some time to rest them in practice over the previous week. 
“Practice has been very easy. Just jogging around and keep-
SMC SWIMMING 


Belles finish fifth of nine in Fall Classic 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 
The Belles wrapped up the competitive three-day Phoenix Fall Classic at the University of Chicago Sunday, finishing fifth out of nine teams and recover­ing two spots from the first day of competition. 
The host Maroons fin ­ished first by a wide mar­gin with 1252 points. Runner-up Lake Forest College finished with 464, while Saint Mary’s earned 296. 
Belles sophomore Katie Griffin turned in the best performance of the day, finishing in third place in the final of the 100-yard backstroke event in 1:04.08. 
After finishing in seventh place after the first day, the Belles rallied for a fifth place finish in the second day, a result that held steady on Sunday. 
Belles coach Mark Benishek attributed much 
o f  t h e  i m p r o v e m e n t  
b e t w e e n  F r i d a y  a n d  
Saturday  to  the perform- 

ance of his distance swim­mers. 
“Our distance swimmers really stepped it up, they helped us make up some serious points and helped contribute to that fifth place, ” he said, noting specifically the work of jun­ior Megan Price and sopho­more Ellie Watson. 
Benishek also praised the efforts of sophomore Kristyn Gerbeth, a rising star for the Belles. 

“Kristyn Gerbeth in the 1600[ -yard relay] had a personal record,” Benishek said. “That ’s the second week in a row she ’s achieved a personal record. She’s slowly climbing her way toward the school record.” 
Junior Audrey Dalrymple said some of this success might be attributed to the extra work the Belles put in over Fall Break as the team stayed on campus to train. 
“We stayed in South Bend to train over Fall Break. That extra time in the pool helped our team focus in on 
our goals for the season and put in the necessary practice time,” she said. 
According to Benishek, the team can expect to see more intense training as the in-conference portion of the season approaches. However, he revealed that at least a portion of the training during winter would be done in a much warmer climate. 
“After the holidays we’re heading down to Florida for a winter training trip from [Jan. 7 to 14], ” Benishek said. “We’ll do double practices — morn­ings and evenings — and we’ll have a chance to real­ly train hard.” 
Next up for Saint Mary’s is the Calvin Invitational 
one week after Thanksgiving. The three-day event in Grand Rapids, Mich. will feature all of the Belles ’ fellow MIAA schools. 

Contact Cory Bernard at cbernard@nd.edu 

ing the legs fresh for the Big Dance,” senior Dan Jackson added. 
Jackson ran his last race for the Irish 100th place overall finish (31:23), following close behind the first Notre Dame finisher, junior Jeremy Rae. Jackson raced for the Irish in 2008 as well, finishing 74th at 30:52. 
Rae came in first for Notre Dame, running the 10-kilome­ter race in 31:07. He finished 78th overall. The top finisher overall was senior Samuel Chalenga of Liberty College in 29:22. 
Junior Jordan Carlson fin­ished 108th in 31:28 and freshman Martin Grady was 124th at 31:37. 

The Irish team was rounded out by junior Joe Miller, who ran in 32:04 for 161st place and freshman Walter Schafer in 184th in 32:34. Miller fin­ished in 134th at the 2008 championships in 31:26. 
“The NCAA National Championship is the biggest stage a Notre Dame runner can compete on in the colle­giate level,” Jackson said. 
With his final collegiate cross country meet behind him, Jackson, one of the top Irish runners of the season, is proud of his accomplishments and looking forward to the future. 
“I love running not only for myself, but for my teammates, my coaches and supporters, and also Notre Dame,” Jackson said. “What I will sorely miss after my collegiate career is over is representing something that is bigger than myself.” 
He now looks to the spring season, when he will join the Irish track and field team. 
With the 2010 cross country season now finished, most of the members of both the men’s and women’s teams will head into the Indoor Track and Field season Dec. 3 at the Blue and Gold Meet at Notre Dame. 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu 
NCAA BASKETBALL 



Cardinals take easy win over Mocs 

There were no such prob­lems against the Mocs. 
Louisville started slowly but didn’t take long to get going. The Cardinals, as Pitino pledged in the preseason, pushed the ball up the floor at every opportunity. 
Chattanooga did its best to slow the Cardinals down, but the Mocs couldn’t match Louisville’s firepower or depth. 
The Cardinals enticed Chattanooga into turning the game into a track meet, and the Mocs complied by rushing shots or giving the ball away. 
Wattad did his best to keep Chattanooga within striking distance even as Louisville built a 14-point halftime lead. The Georgetown transfer came into the game with just five 3-pointers on the season but nearly matched it with four in the first half. 
Wattad knocked down his fifth 3 early in the second, but it wasn’t nearly enough to keep pace with the Cardinals. Louisville erupted over the next 5 minutes behind a series of steals that the Cardinals quickly converted into buckets at the other end of the floor. 
If it wasn’t Buckles finding Jennings for a dunk then it was Marra knocking down a 3-pointer or Kuric stepping into a passing lane and sprint­ing for a jam. 
The Mocs offered little resistance, allowing Pitino to go deep into his bench early in the second half. Every com­bination worked. The Cardinals shot 49 percent, turned Chattanooga’s turnovers into 28 points and had 29 assists on 37 field goals. 
Louisville even played little-used 6-foot-8 senior George Good alongside 6-10 freshman Gorgui Dieng for an extended period. Freshman walk -on Tim Henderson played 10 minutes as all 12 Louisville players got in the game. The crowd roared its approval after a jumper by Smith pushed the Cardinals over 100 points for the first time in their new digs. 
Associated Press 
LOUISVILLE, Ky. — Preston Knowles scored 14 points and Peyton Siva, Kyle Kuric and Terrence Jennings added 13 points each as Louisville rolled by Chattanooga 106-65 on Monday. 
The Cardinals (3 -0) remained perfect in their new downtown arena by over ­whelming the Mocs (2 -3). Chattanooga turned it over 25 times and had no answer when Louisville pushed the tempo. 
Rakeem Buckles, Mike Marra and Chris Smith scored 11 points each for Louisville, the third straight game the Cardinals have had at least four players in double figures. 

Louisville led by 12 at the half and then put the game away with a 22-3 burst early in the second half fueled by Jennings and Buckles. 
Omar Wattad led Chattanooga with 24 points, but the Mocs looked gassed playing their fourth game in eight days. 
Louisville, by comparison, looked energized. Coach Rick Pitino chastised his team after a lethargic 62-45 win over Jackson State on Saturday, a game that was a hangover of sorts following an emotional season -opening win over Butler. 

page 12 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, November 23, 2010 
a big improvement, Brey said. “He was afraid of the line, 

Nash 
didn’t want to go there his 

continued from page 16 early years,” Brey said. “But he ’s come a long way of working on his game.” 

Notre Dame shot 25-of-27 free throws in the game, compared to Maine’s total of five free throws in nine attempts. 
The Irish will now travel to Orlando to take part in the Old Spice Classic over the weekend. They will face Georgia Thursday in their first game of the tournament. Other participating schools include No. 21 Temple, California, Boston College, Texas A&M, Wisconsin and Manhattan. 
Brey said he looked forward to the chance at winning a championship early in the season. 
“This nucleus, this locker room gets the chance to bring a trophy home,” he said. 
The game against Georgia begins at 7 p.m. Thursday at the ESPN Wide World of Sports Complex in Orlando. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 

SMC BASKETBALL 




Undefeated Belles hope to continue record at Anderson 
By JOE WIRTH 
Sports Writer 
The Belles will put their unde­feated record to the test at Anderson College Tuesday. They have won each of their games by 
26.6 points three games into the season. 
“We are very fortunate and happy to be 3-0, but it is still very early in the season and we need to make sure we continue to improve,” interim Belles head coach Patrick O’Daniel said. 
The Ravens (1-1) opened their season with an impressive victo­ry over Robert Morris, but were humbled in their last game with a 28-point defeat at the hands of Thomas More College. O’Daniel said the Belles focus on their own game they should be in good shape despite . “Anderson is a team we believe has improved from last year. We will certainly prepare for them based on their player personnel and their offense and defense they might play against us, but we will also focus on what we need to do to be successful,” O’Daniel said. 
O’Daniel cited specific areas of the game he will look for improvement in against Anderson. 
“Our goal and focus preparing for this game is to play good defense, execute and stay disci­pline on offense, cut down on our turnovers, and control the boards on both ends,” O’Daniel said. 
As their last two wins have been on their home court, O’Daniel showed worry about the team’s ability to win on the road. 

“Anytime you play a team on their home court, there is con­cern because you know they will be ready to play,” he said. “ We need to continue to build on what we have done in our first three games on the road and hopefully we can continue this great start.” 
The game against Anderson will be the Belles’ third game in five days, but O’Daniel said he thinks their depth will be the dif­ference maker in the game. 
“Playing three games in five days is certainly a challenge for any team. Anderson is also play­ing their third game in five days. Fortunately we have been able to use our depth and play a lot of players in all three games played thus far,” O’Daniel said. “I am hopeful this will help us in terms of players not being tired and they will have good energy and intensity throughout the game.” 
Tip off between the Belles and Ravens will be at 7:30 p.m. at Anderson’s Kardatzke Wellness Center. 
Contact Joe Wirth at 
jwirth@nd.edu 
NHL 



Plumlee helps Duke remain in first place 
Nolan Smith had 18 points for 

Associated Press 
Duke and Kyle Singler added 14 

KANSAS CITY, Mo. — Mason while freshman Kyrie Irving had Plumlee scored a career-high 25 11 points and seven assists. points had 12 rebounds and six Jimmy Butler led Marquette, blocks to lead No. 1 Duke to an which was 4 of 20 on 3-pointers, 82-77 victory over Marquette in with 22 points and Crowder the semifinals of the CBE Classic added 15. on Monday night. This is the seventh straight sea-
The 6-foot-10 junior dominated son Duke has started 4-0 and it is inside in a game where the Blue the 21st time it has had that Devils (4-0) took a big early lead record in Mike Krzyzewski’s 32 then saw Marquette tie it three seasons. This was Krzyzewski’s times before Duke went on a 9-0 799th win at Duke and his 872nd run that gave it the cushion it overall, four behind Adolph Rupp needed down the stretch on the on the all-time list. way to the reigning national The win extended Duke’s champion’s 14th consecutive win. November winning streak 26 
Duke will face the winner of games with the last loss being to the other semifinal between No. 4 Marquette in the finals of 2006 Kansas State and No. 22 Gonzaga CBE Classic. in the championship game The Golden Eagles dropped to Tuesday night at the Sprint 1-7 all-time versus No. 1 teams Center. and 2-6 against Duke. 
The Blue Devils took a 23-9 Although Duke built its early lead with 11:15 to play in the first lead on 3-pointers in consecutive half. Duke was still ahead 40-31 trips on Irving, Singler and Seth at halftime but the Golden Eagles Curry, Plumlee was the one who (4-1) were able to tie the game made things tough inside on both three times but never took the ends of the court for Marquette. lead. His fastbreak dunk and move 
The last tie was 57-all on a down low capped the 9-0 run baseline jumper by Jae Crowder that gave the Blue Devils a 66-57 with 10:28 to play. The Blue lead with 8:46 to go. Devils scored the next nine points The final score was as close as 
— four by Plumlee — and the Marquette would get and that Golden Eagles didn’t have anoth-came about with a sloppy final er run in them. minute by both teams. 

Tuesday, November 23, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 


Kelly 
continued from page 16 
“We’ll feel better with a win, obviously, and we’ll feel good about the progress we’ve made in November,” Kelly said in a Sunday teleconference. “But the bottom line for us is to continue to move in the right direction, to play with that physical and mental toughness.” 
The Irish may get a lift with the potential return of key contributor sophomore wide receiver Theo Riddick. Riddick is listed second on the two-deep depth chart at the slot position. Riddick severely sprained his ankle in Notre Dame’s 44-20 victory over Western Michigan Oct. 16. 
The Trojans have also been hit with injuries in recent weeks. Sophomore quarter­back Matt Barkley suffered a high ankle sprain in Saturday’s loss to Oregon State and could miss the game against Notre Dame. According to the Pasadena Star-News, Kiffin told reporters Sunday he is “extremely hopeful” Barkley would be ready to start, but that the Trojans have a backup plan in Mitch Mustain. 
“We’re prepared to start Mitch,” Kiffin said of the red-shirt senior, who started as a freshman at Arkansas in 2006 before transferring to USC. “We have great confidence in Mitch. He’s played well for us in scrimmages.” 
Barkley has thrown for 2,593 yards, 25 touchdowns and 10 interceptions this sea­son. In limited action, Mustain has completed 20 of 34 passes for 165 yards and a touch­down. 
Regardless of who takes the snaps for the Trojans, he will have a pair of playmakers on the outside in receivers Robert Woods and Ronald Johnson, who have combined for 106 catches for 1,264 yards and 14 touchdowns this season. 
USC boasts a balanced offense that averages 250 passing yards and 192 rushing yards per game. Senior run­ning back Marc Tyler’s 146 carries, 820 yards and nine touchdowns lead a multi­dimensional Trojans run game that will test a Notre Dame defense that has dominated in consecutive weeks. 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 
NFL 



Cowboys use running game 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas — Jason Garrett called the offensive plays under Wade Phillips, so his promotion to interim head coach shouldn’t have changed a thing about how the Dallas Cowboys run and throw. 
Boy, has it ever. 
In each of Garrett’s two games in charge of the entire squad, the Cowboys have run more than they’ve thrown, something they hadn’t done even once. Dallas also won both games, something else that had been unprecedent­ed this season. 
Garrett insists the revitalization of the running game stems from how the games have gone over­all. In many of the early games, the Cowboys got behind early and had to throw a lot to try catching up. 
They also weren’t very good when they did run. As a result, last year’s average of 131.4 yards rushing per game was whacked to 75.6 yards per game, second-worst in the NFL, when Phillips was fired. 
But the past two games, they’ve been ahead in the fourth quarter, allowing them to close games out by repeatedly handing off against a defense that’s already worn out, physically and mentally. 
Against Detroit on Sunday, Dallas ran 15 times in the fourth quarter, after running 15 times over the first three periods com­bined. In that final quarter, Marion Barber broke off a run that went for a season-best 24 yards on a third-and-15, and quarterback Jon Kitna went 29 yards for a touchdown, the longest run of his 14-year career. 
“He didn’t show a tremendous amount of explosiveness in space,” Garrett said with a smile. “But he had kind of an oozy feel to his running style that allowed him to get in the end zone.” 
Kitna’s scamper also was the perfect play call, something the Cowboys detected in the Lions’ defense. Barber’s run was a hard burst by a guy who just wanted it. 
Put them together, and those are the kinds of things that keep an offense and a team rolling along. 
A woeful running game was among the things that led to Phillips’ departure. 
Over his last three games, all ugly losses, the Cowboys ran for a grand total of 130 yards. They had 134 on Sunday alone. The previous week, facing a Giants defense that was No. 2 in the NFL against the run, Dallas ran 27 times for 103 yards. 
There’s still plenty of room for improvement. The Cowboys have just three rushing touchdowns — one in September, one in October and Kitna’s marking the lone one in November. 
But at least they’re seeing progress. Their average yards per carry is up from 3.6 in the half-season under Phillips to 4.2 in the Garrett era. 
“We’ve just been more effi­cient,” right guard Leonard Davis said. “If we’re getting 4, 5 yards per carry, we’re staying you out of those third-and-longs. We eliminate those situations. Being in third-and-2 or third-and-3, it keeps the defense guessing. Are they going to throw it? Run it? 
What?” 
Tight end Jason Witten believes the efficiency comes from oppor­tunities. The more they do it, the better they get. 
“We’ve done a good job execut­ing running the ball and then our line has done a good job of block­ing them,” Witten said. “We had a lot of (defensive) guys getting through earlier in the year.” 
The Cowboys went through a stretch Sunday of six straight series without a first down, with the offense losing a fumble near its own end zone and then com­mitting a holding penalty in the end zone for a safety. 
That all helped turn a 7-0 lead into a 12-7 deficit. It could’ve been a lot worse, if not for the defense. 
Then a punt was returned for a touchdown and suddenly the struggling offense was back in the lead. They took it from there, scoring on the next three drives. The fact the game didn’t get away from them enabled Garrett to keep calling runs. 
“When you’re ahead or when you’re playing a closer game you can afford to be a little more per­sistent with the running game,” Garrett said. 
Felix Jones, who has become Dallas’ lead back in recent weeks, left the Lions game with a hip injury. He returned later in the game, but sat out practice Monday. 
Barber practiced — and wore a covering over his dreadlocks, keeping them inside his helmet. He was pulled down from behind by his dangling hair Sunday, but got lucky that officials mistakenly called it a horse-collar. 
NFL 


Dolphins still hope for Super Bowl shot 
Associated Press 
DAVIE, Fla. — The Miami Dolphins are still hopeful of making a run to the play­offs. 
Even at 5-5 going into Sunday’s trip to Oakland, and coming off an embar­rassing 16-0 loss to Chicago last Thursday night, the Dolphins resumed practice Monday feeling both realis­tic and optimistic. 
“It’s possible,” linebacker Channing Crowder said. “(Coach) Tony (Sparano) said all our team goals — winning the division, win­ning the Super Bowl and all that — are still in sight. We just made it hard for our­selves.” 
That long shot idea of a postseason berth is why Pro Bowl left tackle Jake Long, who can’t fully extend his left arm because of an injured shoulder, is playing with a harness. It’s why running back Ronnie Brown, despite being on a career-long drought of 15 games without a 100-yard rushing performance, hasn’t ripped into his fellow players and the coaches. And it’s why Sparano isn’t panicking, at least not on the outside. 
After all, it was just two years ago the Miami Dolphins were in a similar position. In 2008, the Dolphins, coming off a 1-15 season, were 6-5, and then won their final five games to finish 11-5 and win the AFC East. And that same year linebacker Karlos Dansby’s Arizona Cardinals team, at 9-7, made an unlikely Super Bowl run. 
“So when you’re standing in front of (the team),” Sparano said, “and you’re telling them what is possible and, it still is possible, then there’s some credibility there.” 
Perhaps. 
But, the Dolphins remain long shots for the playoffs. They’ve lost to their top two AFC East rivals, the New York Jets (8 -2) and New England Patriots (8-2), as well as two of the AFC’s top wild -card contenders, 
B a l t i m o r e  ( 7 -3 )  a n d  
Pittsburgh (7-3).  
M i a m i  a l s o  h a s  m a j o r  
h e a l t h  c o n c e r n s .  Wi d e  

receiver Brandon Marshall didn’t participate in the por­tion of Monday’s practice open to the media, possibly due to a hamstring injury he sustained in Thursday’s loss to Chicago. His status for the Oakland game isn’t known. 
And the Dolphins are like­ly to again start quarter­back Tyler Thigpen, who was recently on the third team. But injuries to Chad Pennington (shoulder) and former starter Chad Henne (knee) in a 29 -17 victory 
over Tennessee moved Thigpen into the starting role against the Bears. 
Further, Miami might also have to again play its third-team center in guard Richie Incognito. Joe Berger, the usual starter, missed the Chicago game due to a knee injury. And during that game his backup, Cory Procter, sustained a season-ending knee injury, forcing Incognito to come in at cen­ter. 
The Dolphins signed offen­sive lineman Eric Ghiaciuc on Monday, but it’s not clear if he’ll be ready to play. 
Against this backdrop, the Dolphins hold out playoff hopes. 
The players say they know what’s at stake every game. 
“It’s not like college or something where the coach­es have to get you going,” cornerback Vontae Davis said. 

AP 
Miami quarterback Chad Pennington gestures during a news conference in Davie, Fla., on Nov. 10. 

page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 23, 2010 
FENCING 


Irish show strong results across seas 
By MIKE TODISCO 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame recently spanned the globe to compete in various events. Four team members trav­eled to Sosnowiec, Poland, to com­pete in a World Cup event, high­lighted by sophomore Lian Osier’s third-place finish in the sabre event, and another quartet of Irish fencers traveled to Milwaukee, Wis. for the North American Cup B. 
At Sosnowiec the Irish fencers were representing the United States and competing for national points standings. Osier was the top American finisher in the sabre. She said she was pleased was pleasantly sur­prised with her Kvaratskhelia said that Kaull was excruciatingly close to victory. 
“James Kaull lost in overtime which means that the match was tied in regular time and one minute extra decides who wins. He lost by just one touch,” Kvaratskhelia said. 
Senior Steve Kubik finished 16th in the foil event. Freshman Adriana Camacho finished 16th in the women’s foil, which Kvaratskhelia said was significant for the freshman fencer. 
“Camacho’s result was signifi­cant because this was the first time she was able to break into the top 16, which is where the fencers are able to earn qualifying points,” Kvaratskhelia said. 
Kvaratskhelia was pleased with 
the overall effort 
from the events 

showing at over the week­
“I was shocked I did
Sosnowiec. end and said that 
so well, but at the 
“This was the best the results repre­result I’ve ever had same time I was sent a bright internationally,” she future for the 
expected to fnish
said. “It was a really Irish. 
up there.” 
strong field and I “We were was shocked I did so pleased that even well, but at the same Lian Osier though we were time I was expected without a lot of 
Irish sophomore
to finish up there.” 
Sophomore Abigail Nichols finished in 46th place while sophomore Jason Choy came in 57th and freshman Alex Coccia in 90th competed in the men’s sabre. 
In Milwaukee, sophomore James Kaull had the highest fin­ish, falling in the medal round to finish sixth overall. 
Irish assistant coach Gia kids for various reasons we still had a really good 
showing from the freshman and sophomore class which shows us that a few years down the road we have a really solid foundation for good results,” Kvaratskhelia said. 


Contact Mike Todisco by mtodisco@nd.edu 
CLUB SPORTS 


Sander wins frst collegiate match 
Special to the Observer 
Squash 

The Irish hosted Purdue and Western Michigan on Saturday on the newly refurbished Joyce Center squash courts. Notre Dame christened the courts with a 7-2 victory over Western Michigan, before falling to Purdue 8-1. 
Eric Huang went the dis­tance in two hard-fought five-game matches on the day. Excellent debuts fea­tured Allison Fachetti and Chris Sander, the latter win­ning his first College Squash Association (CSA) match and providing the only Irish win over Purdue. Brian Hurley fought hard but lost against a tough Purdue No. 1. 
Kenneth Schlax, Michael Todisco, who is also a sports writer at The Observer, and Dennis Grabowski played well against the Broncos but lost to Purdue. Freshmen Justin Campbell and Luke Pardue looked much improved against Western Michigan, with mixed suc­cess. Junior Ryan Jenks returned after a long hiatus, easily defeating his Western Michigan opponent but falling in an intense four games to Purdue’s No. 2. 
Sailing 

Notre Dame competed in the Timme Angsten Memorial Regatta this weekend, hosted by Chicago Yacht Club. This event also serves as the Midwest Fall Championship, and the Irish placed sixth of nine schools. Wisconsin-Madison won the event, fol­lowed by Michigan, Minnesota, Northwestern, Marquette, the Irish, Wisconsin -Milwaukee, Queens and the University of Chicago. 
On Saturday, there were strong and steady winds of 10-12 mph with tempera­tures in the mid-40s. Sunday was slightly warmer and winds started light but built to about 15 mph by the last race. In the A Division, Nathaniel Walden skippered and Ali Donahue crewed. In the B Division, Jeff Miller skippered and Jessica Hedrich crewed. 
Men’s Rowing 
The men’s rowing club travelled to Grand Rapids, Mich. early Saturday morn­ing to scrimmage the Grand Valley State University men’s rowing team. The Irish raced three varsity eight boats and one novice eight boat at the scrimmage, which consisted of a 3,000-meter head race, three 1500-meter sprints, and one 500-meter dash. 
The first varsity eight of the club placed first in the head race, with a time of 9:30.0. The crew — coxed by Greg Obee, with Garrett Campbell, Greg Flood, Michael Maggart, Brent Shawcross, Zach Stackhouse, Tim Parks, Sean Gibbons and Michael Wagner from stroke to bow — was followed by the first Grand Valley eight. The second, third, and novice eights from Notre Dame placed fourth, fifth and seventh, respective­ly. 
In the first sprint, the top Laker eight pulled ahead of the field, finishing with a time of 3:50.0. The three Notre Dame varsity eights finished second, third and fourth, ahead of the Grand Valley second and third eight boats. 
In the second sprint, the top Notre Dame eight moved through the top Grand Valley eight in the second half of the piece, winning with a time of 
3:51.1. The second and third Note Dame eights placed fourth and fifth behind the top two Laker boats. 
In the third sprint, after Grand Valley got to an early lead by one boat length, the top Notre Dame eight moved through their boat again, winning with a time of 
3:51.4. The second and third Notre Dame eights finished third and fifth, respectively. 
The Laker boat got ahead early in the 500-meter dash and held the lead, finishing with a time of 1:21.2. The top two Notre Dame eights fin­ished second and third, with the third varsity eight finish­ing fifth. 
This was the first sprint-style racing of the season for the novice eight. They placed second in their heat in each of the 1500-meter sprint races and won their heat in the 500-meter dash with a time of 1:31.0. 
This was the last fall regat­ta of the season for club. It will head indoors within the next few weeks to begin their winter training season. 
NFL 


Four-game winning streak gives Falcons momentum 
Associated Press 
FLOWERY BRANCH, Ga. — The Atlanta Falcons are at their best when playing take­away. 
The NFC-leading Falcons (8­
2) have outscored opponents 73-30 in the fourth quarter. Coach Mike Smith attributes much of the late success to a turnover margin that ranks second in the league. 
When winning the turnover battle, Atlanta is 17-1 in three years under Smith. This sea­son, the Falcons have a plus-10 margin in takeaways, which trails only Philadelphia. 
Coming off a 34-17 victory at St. Louis, the Falcons have a four-game winning streak and lead New Orleans and Tampa Bay by one game in the NFC South heading into Sunday’s big contest against another division leader, the Green Bay Packers. 
Like every coach, Smith recites a familiar mantra to his players every spring when they report for mini-camp: Win the turnover battle, and you win games. 
The team has clearly taken the message to heart. Atlanta is 7-0 this season when it has fewer turnovers than the oppo­nent. 
“We’re plus-one this week, so we’re now plus-10,” Smith said Monday. “We’re second in the league, and when you get the turnovers and don’t turn the ball over and you’re on the plus side, you’re basically stealing possessions.” 
Not that it’s been easy. The Falcons have needed fourth-quarter magic to beat St. Louis, Baltimore, Tampa Bay and Cincinnati. 
Safety William Moore was the latest hero, picking off Sam Bradford’s shuttle pass at the Atlanta 1 before Michael Turner’s 39-yard touchdown run one possession later sealed the win. 
“We just got away for a minute in the end there,” Turner said, “but it was pretty tight throughout the whole game.” 
The Falcons aren’t just satis­fied with multiple takeaways and minimal giveaways. Ranking second in time of pos­session, second in third-down offensive efficiency and sev­enth in rushing, Atlanta has found a strong formula for winning. 
Defense creates turnovers. Offense scores points. 
But it also helps that quarter­back Matt Ryan is becoming a master at making the correct pre-snap reads, calling plays from no-huddle formations and making use of several targets. 
Ryan benefits from having three elite playmakers in Turner, NFL receiving leader Roddy White and tight end Tony Gonzalez, but he also gets starting wideout Michael Jenkins and several reserves involved in the passing game. 
Against the Rams, a four-man tandem of reserves — tight end Justin Peelle, running back Jason Snelling and receivers Brian Finneran and Eric Weems — combined to catch seven passes for 70 yards, two touchdowns and three third-down conversions. 
If there was one complaint about Sunday’s win, the Falcons scored just two touch­downs in five red-zone oppor­tunities. But Ryan was still pleased to put up points on four straight first-half posses­sions as he changed the offen­sive tempo, switching out of the no-huddle. 
“We had some quick snaps, but we also used some clock and also some dummy cadences to kind of get a look from them,” Ryan said. “I think we were more effective in our no-huddle, but we also had great field position.” 
It was enough for the Falcons to return home with their 11th victory in 13 games dating to Week 15 last season. 
Maybe the national buzz has­n’t swept up the Falcons. They don’t mind a bit. 
“It was a good win for us, but again we’ve got another tough opponent this week,” Ryan said. “We’re going to need to get back to work and prepare the way we have all year.” 


Tuesday, November 23, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
EUGENIA LAST 
HOROSCOPE 

CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 






 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer



Sports
Tuesday, November 23, 2010 page 16 
FOOTBALL 

USC bound 
Irish look to end losing history with Trojans 

By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame defense has effectively dominated in con­secutive blowout victories in the month of November, buck­ing a number of downward trends that hampered the Irish down the stretch in recent seasons. 
Notre Dame (6-5) will have a similar opportunity Saturday, when the Irish attempt to snap an eight-game losing streak against USC at the L.A. Coliseum on Saturday. 
The Irish have not beaten the rival Trojans (7-4) since 2001. While a streak-ending victory might serve as the sea­son’s highlight in the minds of fans, Irish coach Brian Kelly said there “will not be one sin­gular game that defines” his first season at Notre Dame. 
see KELLY/page 13 


PAT COVENEY/The Observer Sophomore Manti Te’o jumps in celebration with other defenders in Saturday’s game against Army. The Irish won 27-3. 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 





Abromaitis steps up his game 



Sam Werner 
Sports Writer 

Matt Gamber 
Sports Writer 

Eric Prister 

Associate Sports Editor 

Laura Myers 
Sports Writer 
The Irish come into this game riding a wave of momentum. After a huge upset win over Utah, Notre Dame turned in another solid performance against Army, especially on the defensive side of the ball. 
This Trojan team may not be explosive as years past, but the talent is still there. With or without quarterback Matt Barkley, USC will be a big step up in offensive firepower from the past two opponents. 
Last year, my fellow beat writers and I were called out at the pep rally for picking the Trojans over the Irish. Not this year. The losing streak against USC ends Saturday. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, USC 27 
It seems hard to fathom that Notre Dame might break its eight-game losing streak to the Trojans with a true freshman quarter­back making his first true road start, but if USC's Matt Barkley sits as predicted, the Irish might have the advantage at the most important position on the field. More importantly, though, is the fact that the Notre Dame defense is playing its best, and most confident, football in some time, and it'll likely be on them to hold down a talented Trojans offense playing their de facto bowl game. The Irish make it three straight in November. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27, USC 14 
What a difference a month makes. This time last month, the Irish were being run all over by Navy, looking like they had given up on the season. Now Notre Dame is coming off two commanding wins and they haven’t given up a touchdown this month. 
That likely won’t continue against USC, which is led by young but experienced quarterback Matt Barkley. The Trojans are down this year, but are still probably a bet­ter team on paper than Notre Dame. But Brian Kelly has been preaching about fin­ishing strong, and what better way to do it than with a win in the Coliseum? 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 27, USC 24 
It's almost hard to believe the Irish are going into this game without the pressure of having to get that sixth win to qualify for a bowl. In fact, the Irish are going in to this game without any pressure at all. The low stakes, plus the confidence the last two wins have instilled in the team, will lead to a strong, loose performance. 
Three weeks ago I planned to predict this game to be a victory, journalistic integrity aside, simply because I wanted it to happen so badly. Now, I actually believe the Irish can win this game. Even better: so do they. 
FINAL SCORE: Notre Dame 31, USC 28 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
Through Notre Dame’s first three games, senior forward Tim Abromaitis made four shots from beyond the arc. 
He doubled his season total Monday in a 26-point effort to lead the Irish to a 97-72 win over Maine. Abromaitis was 8-for-9 shooting, including 4­of-5 from 3-point range. 
“Abro’s such an even keel, demeanor-wise,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “He probably more than anybody can deal with riding it out.” 
The Irish (4-0) went on a 14-0 run early in the first half on eight points from Abromaitis and six from sen­ior forward Carleton Scott to make the score 25 -9 after seven minutes. 
“That was an awesome dis­play for a while there of shooting 3s,” Black Bears coach Ted Woodward said. “That was pretty impressive.” 
In the first half, Notre Dame made eight of 11 3­point attempts for a mark of 
72.7 percent, and made 59.1 percent of its total shots. 
“We were really smart about getting a great shot,” Brey said. “Not forcing any­thing, and taking what the defense gives us. The first 20 minutes were very methodi­cal.” 
Guard Gerald McLemore led the scoring for the Black Bears (2-2) with 16 points. 
Six players finished the game scoring in double-digits for Notre Dame. Senior guard Scott Martin scored 15 points, senior forward Tyrone Nash and sophomore forward Jack Cooley scored 13 and Scott and senior guard Ben Hansbrough each scored 11. 
“It’s a pretty offensive group,” Brey said. “It’s older guys, they’re highly skilled. They’ve been in our system and in our program three or four years, and they’ve been in college four or five years. It’s a huge advantage.” 
Nash also grabbed 11 rebounds for his second dou­ble-double in a row. He had 10 rebounds and 11 points against Chicago State on Nov. 17. 
Eleven of Nash’s 13 points came from the foul line, as he made 11-of-12 free throws. His performance at the line is 
see NASH/page 12 
BARAKA BOUTS 



Freshman Carmack among winning fighters Sunday 
By JACK YUSKO, ADAM 
LLORENS, JACK HEFFERON 


and KELSEY MANNING 
Sports Writers 
In one of the few unanimous decisions of the night, fresh­man Anna Carmack defeated Rebecca Buczkowski, a junior, in an all-out slugfest. Carmack and Buczkowski forsook defense in exchange for pun­ishing offense. These two tough-as-nails fighters ignored personal pain and focused sole­ly on dishing out damage to the other boxer. 
Carmack packed one of the most powerful jabs seen throughout the night, catching her opponent off guard. Buczkowski used a variety of body shots and blows to the head, but Carmack’s unstop­pable offensive style allowed her to simply roll with the punches she received and strike back harder. Carmack’s punishing combinations to the face scored her many points and ensured her advancement to the next round of fights. 
Natalie “I Choose You” Baldasare def. Terry “Dragonball Z-” Ely 
Through her unique style of slow-but-steady power punch­es, Baldasare defeated Ely in a split decision. 

Baldasare dominated the first round, landing a multitude of power punches on Ely’s head and body, forcing her to play defense. 
However, once the second bell sounded, Ely shot out like a cannonball and went after Baldasare. By forcing her oppo­nent into the corner for the majority of the round, it seemed as if the fight was Ely’s to lose. 
Baldasare used Ely’s style to combat her in the final round, as she too came out firing. The quick and powerful punches proved to be too much for Ely in the end. 
Eileen “Cheech’ n” Chong def. Rachel “Sharin’ is Carin’” 
see CHONG/page 10 




