the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Sexual Assault Awareness Week kicks off 
By MEGAN HEMLER 
News Writer 
Sexual assaults are among the most terrible of human experiences, and people of all communities have a moral obligation to work to prevent them from happening, said Elizabeth Moriarty, assistant director for the Gender Relations Center. 
Sexual Assault Awareness Week, which began yesterday, is an opportunity for survivors to speak out and begin to heal, while also increasing aware­ness within a broader audi­ence, she said. 
The weeklong series of events kicked off with a poster campaign. Today, an event titled “Take Back the Night” will seek to “literally break the silence surrounding the violence of sexual assault with voices of prayer, chanting and the sharing of stories,” Moriarty said. 
“‘Take Back the Night’ is unique for us because we start with a prayer service, some­thing not every college or uni­versity can do,” Moriarty said. “We start the march around campus at the Log Chapel this year, and we’re able as a reli­gious institution to ask pub­licly questions about how to pray about this.” 
Laura Lauck, a “Take Back the Night” student organizer, said, “The week’s purpose is to bring about awareness of this issue on campus and worldwide, but it also serves to bring people together to work towards healing and change.” 

see ASSAULT/page 4 

JPW allows parents to experience campus life 


By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame juniors spent the past three days with their parents experiencing every­thing that the University has to offer during the annual Junior Parents Weekend. 
Now that the weekend of food, events and bonding has concluded, juniors can sit back and reflect on the expe­riences and memories that they shared with their parents over the course of the week­end. 
“Junior Parents Weekend was nice because there was a lot of stuff to do,” junior Ryan Bahniuk said. “Everyone seemed to really participate in the events and were really excited about it.” 
The weekend had several events for the juniors and their parents to attend, including the Opening Gala Friday, the President’s Dinner Saturday and various dorm and college events where par­ents could have a more per­sonal experience with the University of Notre Dame and with their children. 
“Junior Parents Weekend is really organized and is better than your parents just coming up on a random weekend,” junior Michael Bohnert said. “I was able to show my par­ents what I’ve done and my accomplishments in a more personal way than just telling 
see JPW/page 6 
Moriarty said she hopes the awareness week will be bene­ficial. 
“A few years ago, our office did some intense focus group research and found that stu­dents really appreciated awareness weeks because they had lots of ways to be involved or only involved in one specific way,” Moriarty said. “It really brings more of a public presence to the topic and provides an opportunity to educate, both for those direct­ly affected or those with friends or family who need their support.” 
Moriarty said one in four women will be a survivor of an attempted or completed sexu­al assault by the time they fin­ish college. 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH | Observer Graphic 


GreenSummittofocusonfood 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Today ’s third annual Green Summit will highlight the sustainable efforts made on Notre Dame’s campus, 
offering participants the chance to host roundtable discussion. 
The event will be held 
f r o m  4  t o  6  p . m .  i n  t h e  
M o n o g r a m  R o o m  i n  t h e  
Joyce Center.  

“The Summit is a great opportunity to bring togeth­er undergraduates, gradu­ate students, staff and fac­ulty to develop a shared vision of how we can make Notre Dame a more sustain­able campus, ” Education and Outreach Coordinator from the Office of Sustainability Rachel Novick said. 
The theme this year is the Footprint of Food, Novick said. The theme will be rep­resented in the roundtable discussion portion of the Summit. 
“This year there will be a twist, ” she said. “Participants will have 15 minutes to discuss a topic at their table, then we’ll ring a bell and it will be time to switch tables and topics.” 
The four topics in the rotation are food and cli­mate, local food, sustain­able seafood and food waste. 
Senior Colleen Kelly, intern with the Office of Sustainability and President of GreeND, said the event 
see SUMMIT/page 4 

Art exhibit analyzes Eric Gill’s work 
By KATLYN SMITH 
News Writer 
Three students brought a British artist’s work across the pond to the Library Special Collections Room. The exhibit, which opens today, was organized under the direction of Professor John Sherman, who taught a special class last semester to analyze works from the Department of Rare Books and Special Collections’ Eric Gill Collection. 
Sherman said Gill was responsible for designing the Gill San font type and sculpt­ing the Stations of the Cross at Westminster Cathedral in addition to other artistic pur­suits. 
Senior Juliana Hoffelder and sophomores Micahlyn Allen and Kelly Fallon gath­ered materials from the col­lection for the exhibit, titled 
see ART/page 4 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER HDC preview page 3  Women’s basketball falls to No. 14 Georgetown page 20  Natural Selection at DPAC page 10  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, February 22, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Speaking of JPW 
At the Junior Parents’ Weekend Mass Saturday, Fr. Tom Eckert said in his homily that we should enjoy all of the meaningful conversations that the weekend would bring. 
That comment struck me, because over JPW I did indeed have some fascinat­ing conversations with friends, family and faculty members. And when I say fasci­nating, I mean awk­ward, inappropriate Laura Myers or overall just morti­fying. And I’m leav-Assistant ing out the one 

Sports Editor
where my dad and I discussed certain medical procedures I may or may not need in the future. 
Some examples, in chronological order. 
 On the phone with my mom Friday afternoon: 
Mom: “So are you going to drink mar­garitas with us at the Mexican restau­rant?” 
Me: “No, those things are pure sugar.” 
Mom: “Okay, I guess we’ll just have to do tequila shots.” 
 That evening at the Gala, in line for the bar: 
Dad: “With your new haircut you look a little older.” 
Me: “A friend told me 19.” 
Dad: “I wouldn’t go that far.” 
 At a reception for theology majors 
Saturday, talking with a theology professor whom I had just met: Professor: “What are you planning to do after you graduate?” 
Me: “Well, I work for The Observer, and if I can find a job in journalism I would love to do that.” 
Professor: “That’s a great way to be poor for the rest of your life.” 
 Still at the theology reception: 
Me: “There is nothing in this life I can get with a 4.0 that I can’t get with a 3.5.” 
Dad: “How about on the Dean’s List?” 
 At Mass, towards the end of the Sign of Peace: 
My mom leans past me towards a junior two seats to my right. 
Me: “What are you doing?” 
Mom: “I wanted to shake his hand. He’s cute.” 
 At the President’s Dinner: 
A friend from high school runs into my dad and comes over to say hello. 
Friend: “I found your Dad in the bath­room.” 
Mom: “Were you just hanging out in there?” 
In a way, conversations like this are at the core of JPW, a chance for parents to discover just what their kids are up to. For most of us, the Notre Dame experience involves drinking alcohol (legally and responsibly, of course), obsessing over grades and careers, convincing bouncers that our birthday really was 21 years ago and attempting to pick up cute co-eds at Mass, among many other things. 
My parents really got down to the bot­tom of things, and I’m glad they did. If they don’t disown me for writing this — which my mom threatened to do — I’d love for them to come back for more conversa­tions. 
Just preferably not about my friends’ bathroom habits. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD BE ANY DISNEY CHARACTER, WHO WOULD YOU BE? 






Neil O’Dougherty  JoLynn Williams  Tara Doyle  Anna Vaughn  Ali Buckley  Tori Spencer  
freshman  sophomore  freshman  freshman  freshman  freshman  
Keenan  Holy Cross  McCandless  Regina  McCandless  LeMans Hall  
“Winnie the  “The Little  “Meg, from  “Cinderella.  “Mulan. Gentle  “Jasmine  
Pooh ... Oh,  Mermaid. Have  ‘Hercules,’  She’s a blonde  as a forest, but  because I  
bother.”  you seen Prince  because she’s  bombshell, just  a fire, within.”  too love  
Eric?”  got attitude and  like me.”  adventures.”  

a backbone.” 
Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer Students bless their parents at the Junior Parents Weekend brunch. The blessing was led by University President Emeritus Fr. Theodore Hesburgh. The brunch was one of many events that juniors and their parents attended this weekend. 
OFFBEAT 
Nepal’s shortest man in search of world record 
KATMANDU, Nepal — A man who is only 22 inches (56 centimeters) tall left his home country of Nepal on Sunday in a quest to be recognized as the world’s shortest man. Khagendra Thapa Magar is traveling to Europe to campaign for the Guinness World Record title. He applied to London-based group for a place in the record book in October, soon after turning 18, but said he has not received any response. 
Magar’s family initially filed a claim when he was 14, but it was rejected because he was not an adult and there was a chance he might grow. 
They say doctors in Nepal have not been able to explain why Magar is so small. 
Police say student willingly had his buttocks branded 
BRECKENRIDGE, Colo. — Breckenridge authorities said a Texas Christian University student who suf­fered burns when his peers branded his buttocks par­ticipated in the act willingly and no charges will be filed. 
Authorities said Thursday they made the decision not to pursue charges after reviewing statements from Amon Carter IV and a dozen TCU students. The Summit Daily News report­ed that Carter had Greek symbols from his fraternity and a sorority branded on his buttocks Jan. 8 during a trip to Breckenridge and needed surgery after suf­fering second-and third-degree burns. 
Investigators said what happened was not part of a fraternity initiation because Carter was already a group member. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight tuesday wednesday 

IN BRIEF 
The third annual campus-wide sustainability planning session for students, staff and faculty, Green Summit III, “The Footprint of Food,” will take place today from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. in the Monogram Room in the Joyce Center. 
A lecture entitled “National Socialism in Philosophy: Being, History, Technology and Extermination in Heidegger’s Work” will be given today by Emmanuel Faye. It will take place from 4 p.m. to 5:30 p.m. in the Eck Visitors Center Auditorium. 
A lecture, "Computation, Aesthetics, and the Contemporary Baroque," will take place today from 
4:30 p.m. to 6 p.m. in 104 Bond Hall. 
The children’s book, ”A Color of His Own,” by Leo Lionni, will be read at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore tomorrow at 11 
a.m. and 1 p.m. 
A seminar,”Prospects for Peace in Israel-Palestine,” will take place tomorrow at 4 
p.m. in the Dooley Room of the LaFortune Student Center. 
A lecture entitled “A War 
on Terror by Any Other Name: What Has Obama Changed?” will take place tomorrow from 4:15 p.m. to 
5:45 p.m. in Room C103 in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
thursday friday 

Atlanta 62 / 41 Boston 44 / 33 Chicago 35 / 32 Denver 25 / 20 Houston 61 / 49 Los Angeles 61 / 53 Minneapolis 26 /19 New York 40 / 37 Philadelphia 43 / 34 Phoenix 58 / 52 Seattle 59 / 38 St. Louis 37 / 32 Tampa 70 / 63 Washington 43 / 38 
Monday, February 22, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Conference to discuss human development 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
The second annual Human Development Conference will bring students from all over the country and world together to discuss the best ways to address global development and aid. 
The conference’s theme will be “People, Power and Pragmatism: The Future of Development in Our Changing World” and will take place on Feb. 26 and 27. 
“We all really have a passion to bring change to the world, to make a difference,” senior and co-chair of the conference Barbara Vi Ho said. “I remem­ber … someone saying, ‘It’s not enough to have a heart. You have to have a heart that sees.’ We have to understand the con­texts of the situations that we’re entering, the people and the culture that we’re trying to work with. 
“I think the conference is the center of that,” she said. 
The conference will feature research from 43 different countries, Jeremy Tamargo, senior and publicity manager for the conference, said. 
“It’s a student-led conference, with a committee of student members,” Tamargo said. 
The conference is in tune with the mission of the University, Andrew Seelaus, senior and co-chair for the conference, said. 
“If you look at the mission of the University, it’s totally in line with [the conference],” Seelaus said. “There’s definitely an interest on campus.” 
In addition to there being interest on campus, Tamargo said the conference fills a need. 
“Catholic social tradition teaches us that solidarity and preferential option for the poor,” he said. “As long as there’s a need for development, there’s a need for this confer­ence and the need to keep stu­dents engaged. 
“They shouldn’t just be in the classroom, but taking that scholarship out of the class­room and applying it with action, creating social change.” 
The conference’s focus is broad enough to incorporate students from every major, Ho said. 
“Because it is a multi-discipli­nary conference, it provides a venue for people of all different disciplines to present how they think they can make a change in the world,” Seelaus said. 
With the broad focus, Ho said she hopes students will begin to see development in a different light. 
“I would hope that it would open their eyes to seeing human development as involv­ing so many different fields,” Ho said. 
Tamargo said big organiza­tions should not be the only ones doing development work. 
“It starts with your own agency and taking action,” Tamargo said. “That’s the start­ing point.” 
Seelaus said he hopes the conference will be an opportu­nity to show that students are taking action. 
“[University President Fr. John] Jenkins talks about mak­ing [Notre Dame] a preeminent research institution in the coun­try, and I think this is just another great venue for us to showcase that, both graduate and undergraduate student research,” Seelaus said. 
Lacey Haussamen, advisor from one of the conference’s sponsors, the Ford Family Program, said she sees the con­ference as an opportunity for students to participate in an academic forum. 
“One thing I think is so special about this conference is that it gives students a chance to real­ly participate in an academic conference,” Haussamen said. “It gives them an opportunity to present their research, particu­larly undergraduates who haven’t had that experience before.” 
Tony Pohlen, also an advisor from the Ford Program, said the different viewpoints offered at the conference help breed ingenuity in thinking. 
“Maybe one third of the pre­senters are Notre Dame stu­dents, but the others come from universities from across the country and internationally,” Pohlen said. “It brings together students that have had these amazing experiences around the world to present their work, but also to discuss their view­points.” 
The conference will involve students from other universities as well, Seelaus said. 
“We’ve got people coming in from various colleges, and if those people have a slightly dif­ferent perspective to human development that maybe is bet­ter in one realm while we are better in another realm, if we can put that together, we can make things happen,” Seelaus said. 
“This is one event that the Ford Program is sponsoring that really allows students to be engaged in that discussion [of development],” Pohlen said. “It’s not just faculty giving lec­tures. It’s not simple courses that we’re introducing. 
“It’s students really engaged in development issues con-tributing to the thinking and the solving of those problems that affect people around the world.” 

Registration ends tonight and can be completed at online at the Kellogg Institute for International Studies Web site, but people are invited to attend even if they do not register. 
The event will be held at the Hesburgh Center for International Studies, with the reception and dinner in the Monogram Room of the Joyce Center. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 22, 2010 


SMCputson‘CSI:Live’showforchildren 
suspects,” Mathias said during the The investigating team also performance. demonstrated the use of an air-Though only some members of powered cannon. Hart and Mathias the audience were called on stage, put a flashlight in the cannon and 
Assault 
continued from page 1 
“The idea is that this isn’t just a women’s issue, this affects our whole communi­ty, whether you realize it or not. Many people do in fact know someone who has been touched by this, they just don’t realize it,” she said. 
Moriarty emphasized that student concerns are a top priority, and the event schedule was made flexible to reflect what students are looking for at that time. 
Other events throughout the week include a screen­ing of “The Accused,” co­sponsored by the Athletic Department, as well as var­ious resource tables with information and petitions, all in an effort to promote solidarity and reject sexual violence. 
The week culminates in what Moriarty called, “our biggest event,” which is the “Time to Heal” dinner at Legends Friday night. Last year’s dinner drew 220 attendees, Moriarty said. 
“We’ve realized that Notre Dame is small enough that we can have an awareness week that affects the whole campus, not just a section of it,” she said. 
“When we’re made aware of an injustice we are obliged to object to it … When you see people within the community really rally­ing around those who have been directly affected, it’s a powerful experience. Not only does the individual become transformed, but the community as well.” 
Contact Megan Hemler at mhemler1@nd.edu 

By ALICIA SMITH 
Sports Writer 
Complete with a smoke machine and special effects lighting, children were given a hands-on learning experience with CSI: Live. 
The show was recommended for children ages 8 and over and was presented Friday in the O’Laughlin Auditorium at Saint Mary’s College. The show offered kids an experi-Hart. 
The crime: A magician picks an audience member to participate in a trick that results in foul play. Mathis and Hart are called to investigate the scene, and ask the young audi­ence to assist. 
“I think the kids enjoyed the show. They really got into it. When they asked for volunteers they were jumping up and down and jumping on seats,” sophomore Jordan Bartrom, who attended the per­
ence where they could “enter the fascinating world of crime scene investigations through an excit­ing, interactive journey led by our CSI team,” accord­ing to promotional fliers. 
The show led the audience through the inves­
“I think the audience liked it because it was so hands-on and they could participate in it.” 
Jordan Bartrom sophomore 
formance, said. 
When called on stage, kids were given special gog­gles, hats and CSI coats so they appeared to be part of the inves­tigative team. 
During the per­formance, Hart and Mathias gave helpful pointers for solving crimes and 
tigation of a crime scene. Actors uncovering clues within a crime Theresa Noon and Bear Schaal scene. played the two crime scene investi-“A witness statement is one of the gators, Sydney Mathis and David most important elements in finding 
rative approach to a topic.” 
The class included a weeklong trip to London where students 
continued from page 1 grasped Eric’s Gill influence on art, design and catholic social teaching. 
“All Art is Propaganda.” Each According to the exhibit’s cat-student also wrote an essay, alog, Gill began his career in published for the exhibit cata-London. In 1907, he moved to log. Ditchling, England, where he 
Sherman, who has been helped establish the Guild of involved with the collection for Saint Joseph and Saint Dominic, 
Art 
15 years, said the class offered a unique research oppor­tunity. 
“They are writing their own sake and forming these opinions them­selves,” Sherman said. “For some stu­dents, that’s a different experi­ence. You are usually trying to a Catholic com­munity of sculp­
“Some people feel 
tors, writers and
that art is not about other artists. 
their lives. [Gill] felt Fallon, who examined the 
that art needed to be 
collection from 
engaged in the lives an art historian’s 
of people and making perspective, said the trip comple­
a difference.” 
mented her study at Notre John Sherman Dame. professor “Before the trip, it was diffi­
design 
cult to grasp how influential 
learn what somebody else thinks.” 
Hoffelder said through the exhibit, she hoped students would gain “a respect for the type of research we did and how it’s an alternative, collabo-


Summit 
continued from page 1 
has grown beyond the depart­ment level. 
“With the growth and work of the Office of Sustainability and other green groups on campus, it seemed like a natu­ral fit to remake the Summit into a more educational event,” Kelly said. “Given the great work of ND Food Services, it will be an opportu­nity to showcase their work and also engage the rest of the Notre Dame community,” she said. “This event will hopefully build on the success of the past by granting stu­dents, faculty, administrators and staff an opportunity to talk about living in sustain­able ways.” 
Novick said she hopes par­ticipants take away that eat­ing in a sustainable way isn’t difficult. 
“One of the easiest ways people can lighten their envi­ronmental footprint is by mak­ing more conscious choices he had been,” Fallon said. “But once we were in London and in Ditchling and meeting people who were descendants of the guild, it really made the whole project come alive and made the collection seem extremely 
about what they eat,” Novick said. “Also, they don’t have to become a vegan or eat a pure­ly local diet in order to eat in a more eco-friendly way. There are lots of small steps they can take that make a big difference.” 
Kelly said this year’s event shows how far Notre Dame has come in sustainability. 
“The two previous green summits produced a laundry list of things for the University and the Office of Sustainability to work on or investigate,” Kelly said. “I think we have become a campus where being green is more understood and accepted.” 
In addition to the Green Summit, the Office of Sustainability will host many upcoming events, Novick said. In particular, these events, like a Green Comedy Night performed by the Humor Artists, and an Environmental Mass at the Grotto will center on Earth Week, takes place April 18 to April 23. 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
the entire audience was utilized for participation. Audience mem­bers were asked to stand, shout out answers and were asked to clap and cheer for the per­son who was the most-likely suspect. 
“I think the audi­ence enjoyed it because it was so hands-on and they could participate in it. And it was 
“I think the kids enjoyed the show. They really got into it. When they asked for volunteers they were jumping up and down on seats.” 
Jordan Bartrom sophomore 
shot it through a piece of wood and then through a watermelon. 
Throughout the performance, the audience was able to watch a large screen that was on stage to see mes­sages from the crime lab. The screen also pre­sented quizzes and gave instant replays of some of the experiments 
something cool. They were helping to solve a crime,” Bartrom said. 
Mathias and Hart also demon­strated many different techniques for investigating a crime. Hart explained that by using luminol, a chemical substance that is used by forensic investigators to detect blood, and a black light, traces of blood can be identified. 
that Mathias and Hart performed. 
At the end of the performance, the suspect who committed the crime was caught and Hart and Mathias displayed the evidence that they had found while working at the crime scene. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
relevant.” 
Gill’s work extended into mul­tiple facets of the community. In addition to designing fonts and sculpting Stations of the Cross, he constructed war memorials. The Catholic Worker Movement later used his drawings and between how you live your life and how you work and how you pray,” Sherman said. “You don’t need to compartmentalize.” 
The Guild’s integration of their beliefs into their art led the students to choose the exhibit’s title, “All Art is 
images in their publications, Sherman said. 
“They are writing 
Allen said Gill’s 
their own take and
religious and secular works forming these were not always 
opinions themselves. 
distinct. 
For some students, 
“A lot of his work was con-that’s a different troversial experiece. You are because he tend-
usually trying to
ed to put reli­gious implica-learn what sombody tions in his secu­
else thinks.” 
lar work, and he was never afraid 
John Sherman 
to push the enve­lope,” Allen said. professor Sherman design
hoped viewers of the exhibit would appreciate this adherence to a belief system. 
“I think one of the examples of the Guild is that, no matter what your profession, you don’t have to have a boundary Propaganda, ” from a 1934 essay by Gill. 

“Some people feel that art is not about their lives,” Sherman said. “He felt that art needed to be engaged in the lives of peo­ple and making a difference.” 
Ruth Cribb, one of the schol­ars the students met with in London and descendant of a Guild member, will present her Eric Gill 
research and comment on the exhibit March 3 in the Special Collections Reading Room. 
Contact Katlyn Smith at ksmith33@nd.edu 


World & Nation 
Monday, February 22, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Paraguay leader visits soccer star 
MEXICO CITY — Paraguayan President Fernando Lugo says soccer star Salvador Cabanas is hopeful, talking and exercising. 
The Paraguayan striker, who plays for Mexico’s Club America, is recovering after being shot in the head Jan. 25 at a Mexico City bar. 
Lugo says he found Cabanas very lucid and with “a lot of hope” during their talk at the hos­pital Sunday. 
Lugo, who is in Mexico for the Rio Group sum­mit, showed off an America T-shirt that Cabanas signed. Lugo says the player is exercising on a stationary bike. 
Cabanas had been expected to lead Paraguay’s national team at the World Cup in South Africa this summer. 

Obama statue returns to public view 
JAKARTA, Indonesia — A statue of Barack Obama as a boy was placed late Sunday night at the Jakarta elementary school the U.S. president once attended, after its display in a public park prompted backlash in the Indonesia capital. 
The replacement of the bronze statue a week after it disappeared from public view was a low-key event officiated by the school’s principal and three local education officials. Scores of proud students had been among the crowd of 500 watching when Jakarta’s mayor unveiled the statue in the nearby park in December. 
The likeness based on a childhood photo­graph shows a 10-year-old Obama smiling at a butterfly perched on his outstretched thumb. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Archaeologists find octagonal house 
BLUFFTON, S.C. — South Carolina archae­ologists believe they might have unearthed the first octagonal house in the United States. 
The ruins were found last fall on the banks of the May River in the southern coastal town of Bluffton. A letter written in 1796 by a visitor mentions the octagonal house and helps date the structure. 
Archaeologists Heather Cline and Mary Socci say the 900-square-foot house was owned by Scottish immigrant William McKimmy and was built about 1790. 
That would mean the home predates Thomas Jefferson’s Poplar Forest. That home was built in the 1820s near Lynchburg, Va., and is considered to be the first octagonal house in the U.S. 

ATF charges 2 men in church fire 
TYLER, Texas — Federal authorities say two men have been charged with setting an east Texas church on fire and are sus­pected in a string of similar blazes this year. 
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives spokesman Tom Crowley says 19-year-old Jason Robert Bourque and 21-year-old Daniel George McAllister were charged Sunday with felony arson in connection with a fire last month at a church in Smith County in east Texas. 
Crowley says the men are suspected of intentionally setting other fires in east Texas, where 10 churches have burned since Jan. 1. Authorities suspect a fire at a church in the central Texas town of Temple was also arson. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Man arrested in shooting deaths 
INDIANAPOLIS — Police say a 63-year-old man has been arrested in the shooting deaths of two women whose bodies were found in their Indianapolis home. 
According to Sgt. Paul Thompson, the bodies of 61-year-old Linda Nickle and 24-year-old Elizabeth Newcomer were found around 5 p.m. Saturday. 
Thompson says Elwin Hart has been arrested in the slayings and is in police custody. Thompson says he does not yet have an attorney. 
Police were called to the scene after a person who was checking on the home found the bod­ies. 
PORTUGAL 


Floods, mudslides kill 42 people 
Worst storm since 1993 leaves more than 120 injured, countless missing 
Associated Press 
FUNCHAL — Rescue work­ers in Madeira dug through heaps of mud, boulders and debris Sunday, searching for victims buried by floods and mudslides that have killed at least 42 people on the popu­lar Portuguese island. 
Residents looking for miss­ing loved ones were directed by local authorities to the resort’s international airport, where a makeshift morgue has been set up. 
Social services spokesman Francisco Jardim Ramos said not all the bodies had been identified. The center is equipped with psychiatric, psychological and social counseling services, he said. 
More than 120 other peo­ple were injured and an unknown number were miss­ing, possibly swept away or smothered, authorities said, adding the death could still rise. Of 248 people who were forced to flee their homes for temporary shelters, 85 have been allowed to return home, Ramos said. 
Late Sunday, a spokes­woman for the British Foreign office confirmed that a British national had died, but declined to give further details. The spokeswoman spoke on condition of anonymity in line with department policy. archipelago of the same Funchal residents and visi-equipment to try to drain an 
The Foreign Office also name in the Atlantic Ocean tors must now contend with a underground parking garage said a small number of just over 300 miles off the lack of fresh water until at a downtown department Britons had been hospitalized west coast of Africa. destroyed infrastructure is store close to where the on Madeira. The island is The flash floods were so repaired, the head of water heaviest floodwaters popular with British tourists, powerful they carved paths services said. descended. Local authorities who for centuries have down mountains and ripped “One of the main conduits feared shoppers may have regarded wines made in through the city, churning of the city, which is upstream been trapped below ground Madeira as a luxury product. under some bridges and of most of the public distribu-by the deluge. 
The worst storm to hit tearing others down. tion systems, has simply dis-“The store is totally Madeira since 1993 lashed Residents caught in the tor-appeared,” said Pimenta de destroyed, damaged, full of the south of the Atlantic rent clung to railings to avoid Franca. slurry,” said owner Joao Ocean island, including the being swept away. Cars were The death toll “will likely Andrade. capital, Funchal, Saturday, tossed about by the force of increase, given the circum-A medical team backed up turning some streets into tor-the water; the battered shells stances of this flood,” Ramos by divers and rescue experts rents of mud, water and of overturned vehicles lit-said, adding there were arrived Sunday aboard a C-rolling debris. tered the streets. “great difficulties” with com-130 transport plane at the 
“We heard a very loud “It was horrible, there munications on the island archipelago, 550 miles noise, like rolling thunder, were cars on rooftops, there since phone lines were southwest of Lisbon. The the ground shook and then were vans and trucks that ripped out by the deluge. plane was also carrying we realized it was water had fallen and been totally “People are scared, some telecommunications equip-coming down,” said Simon crushed,” said German have lost loved ones and ment. Once telephone com-Burgbage, of Britain. tourist Andreas Hoisser. things are very complicated munications are restored it 
Madeira is the main island, The raging water swept a because of that,” said will be easier to discover who with a population of around fire truck downstream, slam-Madeira-born Luisa Jardin. is missing, Ramos said. 250,000, of a Portuguese ming it into a tree. Firefighters used pumping 


Shuttlelandingonscheduledespiteweather 
California, the backup landing site. shuttle commander George Zamka. 
Associated Press 
“We’re going to play it by ear,” said While the weather was expected to 
CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla. — Growing flight director Norm Knight, who had worsen at Kennedy on Monday night, slightly more optimistic, NASA pressed the final say on where and when to drastic improvement was on the hori­ahead with a Sunday night landing for end Endeavour’s two-week mission. zon for Edwards. NASA was grateful space shuttle Endeavour, even though “It’s going to go down to the wire.” for at least that, considering the third-poor weather on both coasts threat-Late Sunday afternoon, Knight told string backup site, White Sands Missile ened to scuttle any touchdown the flight controllers that he’s seen Range in New Mexico, was also attempts. worse forecasts and urged them not to expected to have dismal weather 
Endeavour and its crew of six are be too depressed about the situation. Monday. returning from the International Space Toward that end, he ordered that the Endeavour could remain in orbit Station, which was hit by computer radar weather images be stricken until Tuesday, if necessary. trouble that triggered temporary com-from the screens at Mission Control. Zamka and his crew delivered and munication blackouts Sunday. By nightfall, optimism was growing installed a new room and big bay win-
In an unusual double weather ever so slightly. The rain seemed to be dow at the space station. The success-whammy for NASA, rain and clouds staying away from Kennedy, and the ful construction job marked the virtual were expected at both Kennedy Space clouds were thin and broken. completion of the 11-year-old orbiting Center and Edwards Air Force Base in “Let’s keep our fingers crossed,” said outpost. 
page 6 The Observer  NEWS Monday, February 22, 2010 
way your friends turned out.” Merola agreed that having 
JPW 
events that involved interac­tions between the juniors and 
continued from page 1 
their parents created memo-them scores.” rable experiences that 
Junior Jackie Merola also brought the class together. said Junior Parent’s Weekend “On Sunday we got to go to was more personal and the brunch and me and my 
allowed her parents to meet people directly involved in her education. 
“The weekend allowed my par­ents opportuni­ties that they wouldn’t have if they just came up to visit any 
other week­end,” she said. “We went to an event at the College of Science and my 
“This weekend allowed my parents opportunities that they wouldn’t have if they just came up to visit any other weekend.” 
Jackie Merola junior 
parents really enjoyed that,” she said. “It was great to have the entire Class of 2011 and their par­ents all in one place.” 
While the jun­iors said they enjoyed the official events that the University planned for the weekend, many students and 
parents got to meet my advi-their parents spent quality sor, which is something they time together in less tradition­
wouldn’t nor­mally be able to do.” 
Bohnert said Junior Parents Weekend is also a chance for students to meet their friends’ par­ents. 
“It’s really wonderful to meet the par­ents of your friends,” he said. “You get to know more about your friends — the 
“On Sunday we got to go to the brunch and my parents really enjoyed that. It was great to have the entire Class of 2011 and their parents all in one place.” 
Jackie Merola junior 
al ways. 
Junior Erin Semler said having more social experi­ences with her parents during Junior Parents Weekend allowed her parents to have a greater insight into her life outside of the classroom. 
“My parents now have a bet­ter perspective of what college 
stuff they life is like,” she said. 
wouldn’t tell you personally. It’s great to meet the people Contact Molly Madden at who are responsible for the mmadden3@nd.edu 

Gov’t.developsGreatLakesrescueplan 
Associated Press 
TRAVERSE CITY, Mich. — The Obama administration has developed a five-year blueprint for rescuing the Great Lakes, a sprawling ecosystem plagued by toxic contamination, shrinking wildlife habitat and invasive species. 
The plan envisions spend­ing more than $2.2 billion for long -awaited repairs after a century of damage to the lakes, which hold 20 per­cent of the world ’s fresh water. The Associated Press obtained a copy of the docu­ment, which Lisa Jackson, head of the Environmental Protection Agency, was releasing at a news confer­ence Sunday in Washington. 
“We’re committed to creat­ing a new standard of care that will leave the Great Lakes better for the next generation,” Jackson said in a statement. 
Among the goals is a “zero tolerance policy” toward future invasions by foreign species, including the Asian carp, a huge, ravenous fish that has overrun portions of the Mississippi River system and is threatening to enter Lake Michigan. 
Others include cleanup of the region’s most heavily polluted sites, restoring wet­lands and other crucial habi­tat, and improving water quality in shallow areas, where runoff from cities and farms has led to unsightly algae blooms and beach clos­ings. 
Also promised is a strategy for monitoring the ecosys­tem’s health and holding fed­eral agencies accountable for carrying out the plan. 
During his 2008 campaign, President Barack Obama pledged $5 billion over a decade toward fulfilling a Great Lakes cleanup wish list developed by a coalition of agencies, scientists and activists. 
Congress last year approved his request for a first installment of $475 mil­lion. The newly released plan assumes yearly appro­priations of the same amount through 2014, except for the $300 million Obama request­ed this month in his 2011 budget. 
The 41-page plan sets out ecological targets and specif­ic actions to be taken by 16 federal agencies working with state, local and tribal governments and private groups. 
Among the goals it hopes to achieve by 2014: finishing work at five toxic hot spots that have languished on cleanup lists for two decades; a 40 percent reduc­tion in the rate at which invasive species are discov­ered in the lakes; measura­ble decreases in phosphorus runoff; and protection of nearly 100,000 wetland acres. 
It also will help save species such as the lake sturgeon, a prehistoric fish that can reach 8 feet long and 200 pounds but is endangered because of over-harvesting and habitat degradation. The plan prom­ises to provide 25,000 young sturgeon for stocking pro­grams. 
Officials said the plan — combined with enforcement of existing environmental rules and the creation of new ones where needed — would help make Great Lakes fish safe to eat, their waters suit­able for drinking and swim­ming, and their native plants and animals thriving. 
The lakes provide drinking water to more than 30 mil­lion people and are the back­bone of a regional economy dependent on tourism, out­door recreation, shipping and manufacturing. 
“We now have a golden opportunity, even a once-in­a-lifetime opportunity, to make huge progress,” Wisconsin Gov. Jim Doyle, co-chairman of the Council of Great Lakes Governors, said in a telephone interview Saturday. “We’ve been talk­ing about this for a long time. Now the federal gov­ernment is putting some real resources behind it.” 
Jeff Skelding, director of the Healing Our Waters ­Great Lakes Coalition, which represents environmental groups across the region, praised the plan’s commit­ment to long-range funding for the restoration but said Congress should boost Obama’s 2011 spending request to $475 million. 

The Observer 


Business
Monday, February 22, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

IN BRIEF 
Lufthansa seeks to avoid strike 
BERLIN — Lufthansa sought Sunday to head off a massive strike by its pilots but posted alter­native flight schedules and activated hot lines warning travelers to brace for major disruptions and delays. 
A day before more than 4,000 pilots for Germany’s largest airline planned to walk off their jobs for four days in an effort to gain increased job security, the likelihood of reaching a compromise appeared slim. 
Lufthansa AG spokesman Klaus Walther said in a statement the airline was willing to return to unconditional talks with the Cockpit pilots union. 
“If the Cockpit Union is willing to renounce its conditions and unreasonable and illegal demands ... then we could swiftly come to an agreement,” Walther said in a statement. 
There was no immediate comment from the union, which has called on pilots flying for Lufthansa, Lufthansa Cargo and its low-budget subsidiary, Germanwings, to walk off the job at midnight and not return until midnight Thursday. 
Thousands could be affected by the strike, which is posed to disrupt international and domestic travel, as Lufthansa scrambles to rebook passengers on other flights or, within Germany, trains. 
Earlier Sunday, Lufthansa board member Stefan Lauer told the Frankfurter Allgemeine Sonntagszeitung the airline was prepared to guarantee the jobs of its pilots for two years if they returned to negotiations. That does not appear to be enough for the pilots, who say the airline is increasingly relying on foreign pilots who fly for less. 

Gas prices drop across nation 
CAMARILLO, Calif. — The average price of regular gasoline in the United States is down 
3.29 cents over a two-week period to $2.63. That’s according to the national Lundberg Survey of fuel prices released Sunday. 
Analyst Trilby Lundberg says the average price for a gallon of mid-grade was $2.77. Premium was at $2.88. 
Among cities surveyed, Cheyenne, Wyo., had the lowest average price at $2.32 a gallon for regular. Honolulu was the highest at $3.33. 
In California, the average price for a gallon of regular was $2.87. 
HAITI 


Leaders consider recovery plans 
U.S.-backed expansion of garment industry could help rebuild nation’s economy 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE — Jordanie Pinquie Rebeca leans forward and guides a piece of suit-jacket wool and its silky lining into a sewing machine, where — bat! bat! bat! — they’re bound togeth­er to be hemmed. 
If she does this for eight hours, she will earn $3.09. Her boss will ship the pin­striped suit she helped make to the United States, tariff-free. There a shopper will buy it from JoS. A. Bank Clothiers for $550. 
In the quest to rebuild Haiti, the international com­munity and business leaders are dusting off a pre-quake plan to expand its low-wage garment assembly industry as a linchpin of recovery. President Barack Obama’s administration is on board, encouraging U.S. retailers to obtain from Haiti at least 1 percent of the clothes they sell. 
But will that save a reeling country whose economy must be built from scratch? 
Few Haitians have steady incomes, and unemployment is unmeasurable; before the quake it was estimated at between 60 and 80 percent. In cities, most scrape by sell­ing in the streets, doing odd jobs or relying on remit­tances from abroad that Encouragement Act, or It was HOPE II that per-workers with the “outsourc­make up a quarter of Haiti’s “HOPE II.” Passed by the suaded the bosses to move ing” wage. $7 billion gross domestic U.S. Congress in 2008, it lets their Dominican plant and DKDR complied but cut product. Haiti export textiles duty-rename it DKDR Haiti SA. production-based incentives, 
Garments are central to free to the U.S. for a decade. Nearly all the 1,200 people according to general manag­the economic growth plan Last year, $513 million still working there after the er Chun Ho Lee. Producing commissioned by U.N. worth of Haitian-made quake make the new “out-600 pieces in a day used to Secretary-General Ban Ki-apparel, the bulk of exports, sourcing” minimum wage of yield a worker a bonus of moon last year, a 19-page was shipped with labels 125 gourdes a day, about $2.47. Now it’s worth $1.23. report written by Oxford including Hanes and New $3.09 — approximately the All sides agree that gar-University economics profes-Balance. Factory profit mar-same as the minimum wage ment-industry wages are too sor Paul Collier and promot-gins average about 22 per-in 1984 and worth less than low to feed, clothe and ed by former President Bill cent, according to half its previous purchasing house workers and their Clinton as special envoy to Washington-based Nathan power. families. Even factory own-the impoverished nation. Associates Inc. Pay was even lower last ers acknowledge that reality 
They say the sector could The cheap labor is year when lawmakers — though they deny running quickly produce hundreds of Jordanie Pinquie Rebeca, raised the country’s mini-sweatshops and say the thousands of jobs thanks and others like her. mum from $1.72 a day to businesses have an impor­chiefly to two things: an During a recent shift at almost $5 in response to tant role. existing preferential trade the South Korean-owned protests. But owners com-“It’s not enough to make a deal with the nearby United factory where she works six plained, and President Rene decent living, but it’s the first States, and cheap Haitian days a week, employees Preval refused to enact the step” toward economic labor. softly sang a Creole hymn law. A compromise allowed recovery, said George 
The deal is the Haiti beneath the hot fluorescent non-garment workers to Sassine, president of the Hemispheric Opportunity lights: “Lord, take my hand. receive the higher mini-Association of Industries of through Partnership Bring me through.” mum, but stuck factory Haiti. 


Oil services company buys competitor 
the global recession that weakened Thursday before reports of the compa-
Associated Press 
energy demand and discouraged nies’ merger talks sent Smith’s shares 
HOUSTON — Schlumberger Ltd., the drilling operations around the world. soaring. Smith CEO John Yearwood world’s biggest oilfield services compa-But prices have since rebounded, and said the acquisition, which has been ny, has agreed to purchase fellow the company said in its most recent unanimously approved by both compa­industry player Smith International earnings report in January that its nies’ boards, is good for shareholders. Inc. for about $11 billion in stock in a business will benefit as recovering BMO Capital Markets analyst Alan move to diversify its product offerings countries burn more fuel. Laws has said the purchase would fill and better compete with rival Under terms of the transaction, in the few gaps Schlumberger has in its Halliburton Co. Smith stockholders will receive 0.6966 portfolio by adding Smith’s leading 
The deal, announced Sunday, boosts of a Schlumberger share for each positions in fluids and drill bit technol­Schlumberger’s portfolio just as busi-share held. Based on Schlumberger’s ogy. In a note to clients Friday as spec­ness is beginning to recover. Smith, closing stock price Friday of $63.90, ulation about a possible deal swirled, based in Houston, makes drilling tools, that values Smith shares at $44.51 Laws said the acquisition would beef bits and other products for the oil and each. Based on Smith’s 247.4 million up Schlumberger’s domestic U.S. oper­gas industries. shares outstanding, the all-stock pur-ations with “mainstream services that 
Schlumberger, which has main chase is worth $11.01 billion. are in high demand.” He expects offices in Paris, Houston and The The deal values Smith shares at a 25 Smith’s Wilson distribution business Hague, Netherlands, slumped during percent premium to their closing price will be spun out after the deal closes. 
The Observer 


Viewpoint 
page 8 Monday, February 22, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 


Sourcing food to save water 
What do you eat every day, and where is it from? Farmers in England reported that students who visit their farms assume carrots grow on trees and get confused when presented with the fact that beef and milk come from the same animal. 
Let’s connect our­selves to what in the past five years has been the societal par­allel to the technical green revolution that gave the world Jackie the capacity to sup-

Mirandola 
port seven billion 
Mullen
people. As Americans, we Freckled micro-eat rather Thoughts than macro-eat. Countless Web sites and products divulge calories, fat, protein, vitamins, etc. in most foods that are sold in stores, but try searching where the ingredients of those products come from and only a few recent documentaries show up. What are we eating? 
Let’s go through just one lunch. We’ll call the outcome your “foodprint.” (Try saying that with a German accent, it makes the joke funnier.) 
You make a sandwich of wheat bread 
— made from wheat from Indiana and yeast made from molasses, which was made from sugar cane grown in Brazil on former tropical forest land, poor in nutrients and only temporarily farmable after the forest’s clearing. 
Your chicken likely came from North Carolina on a chicken farm where thou­sands of other chickens lived for 81 days in the same crowded chicken house, fed antibiotics and Vitamin D-rich feed that allows the chickens to live longer. Before the 20th-century chick­ens struggled to live in less sunny times of the year, they were a seasonal food. 
Your tomato came from South Florida, picked by migrant workers — a dispen­sable workforce for agricultural compa­nies, for these people have hardly any rights in America. Your banana came on a diesel tanker from Ecudaor, your eggs in your chocolate-chip cookie were trucked in refrigeration from Iowa. Food comes from all over, and scores and scores of people are involved in the production processes. 
A recent Swedish study in the journal Ecological Economics calculates the energy it takes for food to grow and get to your plate versus the energy you get from eating it. For every food item, they calculated the to-your-plate energy through considering fertilization, soil degradation, clearing for farms, fuel to harvest/plant the food and to get it to market, as well as the energy needed for you to bring the food home, store it and cook it. These scientists found that one serving of beef takes 9.4 megajoules to get to your dinner plate, yet when it arrives, it provides you with only 0.8 megajoules (191 calories). Chicken gets you the same amount of calories for only half the energy investment, while potatoes provide in nutritional energy more than 50 percent of the energy it takes to grow and transport them. 
A similar study from Great Britain concluded that the energy invested in producing and transporting one week’s worth of food for one person is roughly five times greater than the amount of energy the eater gets from the food. About one-sixth of that input is home storage and another one-sixth is home cooking. Thus, eating more uncooked fresh foods or not relying heavily on the fridge could significantly decrease the energy used to get your food to you. 
And after you figure out where all that food came from, how your bananas were shipped from Ecuador to San Diego on a giant tanker then trucked 2,100 miles to South Bend, Ind., think about how many times you failed to actually eat that food. You left your banana in the room or your bag, and then decided the brownish-green, unseasonable and unappetizing curve of a fruit should be thrown out. We throw out food that traveled upwards of 5,000 miles to get to us because we don’t feel like eating it, and thereby not only con­tribute to landfill issues, but also waste water. 
Water waste is intricately tied to food waste because of the amount of water agriculture demands. Dr. Emerson Nafziger at the University of Illinois esti­mates that growing one acre of corn even in the fertile Midwest needs 250,000 gallons of water. 
At World Water week in Stockholm this past year, scientists calculated that America wastes about 30 percent of its produced food, worth approximately $48.3 billion. That much food waste equates to about 40 trillion liters (10.5 trillion gallons) of water waste, which could provide water for 500 million households — roughly five times the number of households in America. 
Wasting food becomes a human rights issue. 
Wasting food wastes water. We can fundraise to build wells in Africa as long as we want, but not finishing your meal wastes far more water and money than we contribute to foreign nations. The fact remains that we cannot merely ship our water to them, but the pollution from our agricultural runoff causes other issues for poor Central American nations. Our wasted food contributes to agricultural runoff that creates nitro­gen-rich dead zones in our oceans and brain development problems in our chil­dren. 
When we waste food we waste oil. The oil itself causes air pollution in the form of CO2, smog and particulate mat­ter, while the lust for it — so that we can get our kiwi and Argentinean beef promptly — causes wars and kills citi­zens of nations all over the world. 
Throwing away out-of-season produce causes a higher demand for that pro­duce. Thus, more under-paid and under-valued workers are exploited as migrant workers by huge agricultural industries. 
Eating mindfully can significantly expedite aid many of the world’s human rights issues. If we know what is in sea­son, where our food came from and how it got there, we appreciate it in a different way. Only then do we finish our food, take what we can eat and not waste the massive efforts of people, ani­mals and the earth that it took for the food to get to us to support our very lives. Wasting less food can help the earth and the people on it who are suf­fering not by transferring the food to them per se, but by minimizing the strains of its production. Think about that next time you throw away half your meal in the dining hall. 
Jackie Mirandola Mullen is a senior history and German major. She encourages you to pick a favorite crop (hers is the potato). You can reach her at jmirando@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
JPW misunderstanding 
I would like to tender my apology to the entire junior class who attended the JPW brunch this weekend. Through a mis­understanding on my part, I arrived too late to offer the invocation that I had been invited to give. I consider it a great honor to have been invited. It was an inexcusable oversight to arrive late, for which I apologize, particularly to Anne Reser and Zach Reuvers, who worked hard to make the weekend and the brunch a lovely, successful event. I thank University President Fr. John Jenkins for graciously stepping in to fill the gap much more ably than I could ever do. Nonetheless, I herein offer my unread, but heartfelt prayer for the juniors and their parents: 
Gracious God, we are grateful for the presence of these loving parents who came to share in and experience our community of learning and faith at Our Lady’s University this weekend. We who are blessed to walk alongside their chil­dren in their journey of faith seeking understanding thank them for their sacrifices and their trust in us to lead them along the paths of scholarship and love of God and his Son, Jesus Christ. May we continue to be true to our mission to foster in the young people in our care the disciplined habits of mind, body and spirit that characterize educated, skilled and free human beings. Let us live in peace, speak the truth, give thanks each day. Let us respect the earth and her crea­tures, live simply and be of service to others. Let us be guid­ed by our faith and not our fear. Let us go lightly on our paths, walking in the way of God. 
Ava Preacher 
Assistant Dean Office of Undergraduate Studies Feb. 21 
News Viewpoint 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Sarah Mervosh Lianna OBSERVER POLL Irena Zajickova Brauweiler What are your plans for Spring Kristen Durbin Sports Break? Graphics Douglas Farmer 
“In literature as in ethics, 
I’m too poor to go anywhere 
there is danger, as well as glory, 
Mary Cecilia Molly Sammon 
Staying here for the weather 
in being subtle. 
Mitsch Andrew Owens 
Aristocracy isolates us.” 
Going to Puerta Vallarta with the rest 

Scene 
of the Senior class 
Jess Shaffer 
Charles Baudelaire 
Home sweet home 
French poet 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 
The Observer 




Viewpoint 
Monday, February 22, 2010 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Reconsider Innsbruck decision 
Dear Fellow Innsbruckers and Notre Dame Office of International Studies (OIS) Administrators, 
As a former school administrator, I can understand that in difficult economic times, with the endowment going down in value and staff salaries and student tuitions rising, all programs at the University are under a fiscal microscope. Faced with similar situations in the pub­lic school setting, I generally opted for the elimination of extracurricular activi­ties in order to maintain a solid academ­ic program. 
At the university level, however, the question will always be what constitutes a “solid academic program?” Put anoth­er way, what constitutes a solid liberal arts education? For me personally, the education I received in one year in Innsbruck (1966-67 — yes, the year Ara and Notre Dame were national champi­ons) was not only solid and challenging academically, given my level of compe­tency in German, but also “liberal” and liberating in the finest tradition of the liberal arts. 
Viewing the Pieta, for example, in per­son at St. Peter’s in Rome was far differ­ent and far more rewarding than view­ing slides of the Pieta presented in an auditorium on campus at Notre Dame during art appreciation class. 
The Notre Dame founding fathers of the Innsbruck and Angers programs got it right. Put Notre Dame students in uni­versity towns similar in size and compo­sition (conservative, Catholic) to Notre Dame, allow every student with at least a basic understanding of the foreign lan­guage to attend, keep the cost of attend­ing nearly equal to the yearly cost of attending Notre Dame, provide Notre Dame priests (Fr. Broestle, in our case) or University professors to run the pro­grams on site and the building blocks of a successful program would be in place. 
Thanks in no small part to the compe­tency in German I developed in Innsbruck, I eventually met and married a wonderful German girl from Stuttgart nearly 40 years ago. As a result of our marriage I have had the unique opportu­nity to make the acquaintance of many German-speaking people in Switzerland, Germany, Austria and even Hungary (Donauschwaben). To this day, however, when visiting Europe I still feel most at home in “meinem zweiten Heimatsland Oesterreich.” 
Please consider — or reconsider, OIS administrators — the impact certain pro­grams may have on the lives of your stu­dents. Not everything can be measured in successful careers or in dollars and cents. Some things can only be measured by the heart and by common sense. 
Bob Woodrick 
alumnus Class of 1969 Feb. 4 

Reality check 
Thank you, Mr. Easley (“Words of wis­dom,” Feb. 18) for your enlightening insights to the facts of life. While you shed some light on the value of hard work, you have missed some very important points. 
Yeah, life is hard. The difficulties of day-to-day life can’t be ignored. And, unfortunately, some people have it tougher than others. At the same time, don’t we, as members of the human pop­ulation, have a responsibility to do what we can to improve this world, thus mak­ing life easier for our fellow humans? Human civilization is marked by a contin­uous progress towards a better life. This is why, as you mentioned, many people have family members helping them out through tough situations. This isn’t always enough, though, and I’m surprised someone can be so naïve as to think such help is always sufficient. Shouldn’t this university, one of the least hardest-hit by the recession and one of the richest in the nation (fact), allocate some of its vast resources to better the lives of some of its hardest-working employees? 
Oh, but wait, you say this is a University “handout”? You argue that people could go to night school or community college, making a personal sacrifice, to get ahead in life. But what if they can’t afford tuition? What if they are already working as much as they can, letting students like us enjoy the life we have on campus, and can’t afford to make any more sacrifices like an extra “shift job?” Surprisingly, some people actually like to go home and spend time with their families. A raise in building and food service workers’ wages isn’t a handout; it’s just fair compensation for the job they’re doing. 
Now, I am in no way judging the lives of the fine workers at this university. I’m sure many of them lead fulfilling lives and are happy with their jobs. The thing is, there are still people struggling day-to­day out in the world, who can’t always take advantage of the opportunities of which you speak. It’s just unfortunate that their needs and hard work go unno­ticed. 
Michael Kress 
freshman Zahm Hall Feb. 18 


Welcome to capitalism 
Dear Mr. Nowak (“Words of social jus­tice,” Feb. 19) and Mr. McHugh (“No ‘words of wisdom,’” Feb. 19), 
University employees are not coerced into maintaining their current jobs. If their services were more valuable than their current wages indicate, then they would surely quit their current work in favor of more lucrative salaries else­where. 
The University has no legal or moral obligation to pay employees any more than market price. To suggest that it is immoral to refrain from overpaying one’s employees is akin to condemning one who does not offer charitable pay­ment to a seller beyond their asking price, as this would seem an equivalent gesture of generosity. Surely, this is a ridiculous proposition, as is any propo­sition that holds the University respon­sible for the welfare of the lower class, or any individual responsible for the welfare of another, for that matter. 
This is not an issue of Catholic virtue or right vs. left philosophy, but simply the realities of capitalism, to which we are all subject. If you would personally like to donate money to University employees out of your own pocket then I’m sure you will have no trouble find­ing takers. You may then petition your own employer for higher wages to fund your other philanthropic pursuits and see the reaction with which your request is met. However, such projects are not to be demanded of the University or anyone else, even with ill-conceived appeals to morality. 
Alex Andre 
freshman Stanford Hall Feb. 19 


Get some real experience 
To Mark Easley (“Words of wisdom,” Feb. 18), 
As a holder of a four-year degree from a prestigious (I hope) university, I completely disagree with your “advice” to working people. I don’t know how much experience you have in a 9-to-5, but especially now, it’s a struggle to get by even with a degree and a good job. It’s even harder when your job involves cleaning up after spoiled col­lege kids and holds no appeal whatso­ever. To quote you, “It is very preten­tious to think you know what is best for others.” I hope you get some real-world wisdom before you criticize peo­ple who are working hard for a living. 
John-Paul Witt 
alumnus Class of 2009 Feb. 18 


ND workers always behind the Joneses 
First of all, thank you Mr. Easley for your “Words of wisdom” (Feb. 18), but I would have expected a lit­tle more wisdom and a little less ignorance from a student that comes into contact with building and food service employees every day. Allow me to explain a few things about life you may have missed. 
1. 
Life is hard. For many people, higher education is not a possibility. Everyone has been dealt a different hand in life and not everyone is as fortunate to go to Notre Dame as you. Fact. 

2. 
You say most people have a spouse or family member to help support them when times “get hard,” but what you fail to see is when you’re making almost $4 under the living wage, times are always hard. 

3. 
You say someone working for a place for more than a decade should make “a bit more than $9”? Only a bit? I would hope that someone who has worked at a place for more than a decade would receive a substantial amount more after a decade of serv­ice than when they first started. 

4. 
Yes, we live in a free society, but let me tell you something: There is a lot more freedom for some than there is for others. Working more than one job per day puts physical, emotional and familial strains on people. In this economy, most people 


EDITORIAL CARTOON 
cannot afford to quit their jobs sim­ply because it is not their passion. I’m sure it is no one’s passion to clean Mark Easley’s hair off the shower wall, but sure enough, Mark, I’m sure your Keenan Hall shower is clean when you need to use it. 
5. 
Night school and community col­lege cost a lot of money. Sure, they don’t cost as much as a Saint Mary’s or Notre Dame education, but when you are already making almost $4 under the living wage, you don’t thinking about saving for a night school education, you think about what food you are going to put on the table for your family. Getting paid a fair wage is not taking a handout from the University, it is getting paid fairly for a fair day’s work. 

6. 
Some people do enjoy their work and believe they do their work at a fair wage. These are the people that are making a fair, living wage. 


The building and food service employees make our lives easier every day. Providing them with a liv­ing wage would be the least we could do to show our gratitude for the hard work that they do. 
Colleen Lowry 
junior LeMans Hall Feb. 18 

The Observer 


Scene
page 10 Monday, February 22, 2010 

piece, but comedy is international and I’ve loved it TH: I’ve just enjoyed getting nine terrific actors and let-By STEPHANIE DePREZ because it has entirely American rhythms, which I ting them lose. Assistant Scene Editor think we’ve found. It is very un-English, in the writing EV: There are many extremely ridiculous moments 
and delivery of it. onstage, as the whole play is an absolute riot. Perhaps 
Scene had a chance to interview the actors and direc-KB: To demonstrate that, my character is a wimpy the most ridiculous involves eating, but I don’t want to tor behind the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center’s most nerdy guy who’s really into Native American history give the scene away. recent student production, “Natural Selection.” Scene and legend which is why he has his job: head of the KB: Two words: Sloppy Joes. was fortunate enough to pick the brains of the thespi-Native American Tribal Pavilion at Wonder World’s ans behind the play, including direc-Culture Fiesta. What do you want to audience to go away thinking? tor, Tim Hardy, a visiting professor KB: Mmmm, the guy who played Henry Carson, I won­who’s been here before as part of the What challenges have you faced? der if he’s single.’ Really though, I think it’s kind of 
Anything I could say here
Actors From The London Stage, Eddie KB: One of the challenges has been epitomized by what the character Zhao says during the 
is overshadowed by the
Velasquez, a senior theatre major getting used to the clothes of the play. The main point I guess would be, ‘Study the past. who plays Zhao, and Kevin sheer hilarity of the show, future and doing Move toward the future.’ Barsaloux, a sophomore theatre quick changes tak-EV: I would like the audience to leave 
which is why everyone
major who plays Henry Carson. ing the clothes There are many with a sense of enjoyment but also with a
should come see it. 
from my belt, realization of the strong messages of the
extremely ridiculous
What’s the most exciting part of Kevin Barsaloux which is like a show. Eric Coble has written the play as 
moments onstage, as the
“Natural Selection?” Student Actor 360-degree fanny a commentary on current American Tim Hardy: It’s entertaining. It’s a pack. Yes the cos-whole play is an ideals, and the audience stands to gain comedy. It’s America in the future, tumes are awe-positively from the moral of the play. 
absolute riot. 
where we’re totally dependent upon gizmos and noth-some, and I totally hope this is ing is real anymore. It’s what happens when we go too where fashion trends are going Eddie Velasquez What would you tell people interested far in that direction. because you never really know Student Actor in seeing the show? Kevin Barsaloux: The most exciting part for me has when you’ll need a safari jacket. TH: (kidding): It’s about sex, drugs and been working with so many talented people. Everyone Eddie Velasquez: The first time we rock and roll. involved has been fantastic and every aspect of the tried using the food [on stage], we were all extremely KB: Anything I could say here is overshadowed by the show is coming together in a great way. Also, Eric nervous about how the scene would play out, and we sheer hilarity of the show, which is why everyone Coble, the playwright, is coming to the Friday perform-ended up making a mess but having a blast. should come see it. ance, so that’s really exciting. 
What kind of show is it? What’s the most interesting aspect of this perform-TH: I am from Britain, and this is a totally American ance? Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 

MARY CECILIA MITSCH I Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Monday, February 22, 2010 page 11 

By STEPHANIE DePREZ 
Assistant Scene Editor 
Premiering this Tuesday at DeBartolo Performing Arts Center, “Natural Selection,” by playwright Eric Coble is an absurdist play, which is guaranteed to make the audience laugh, and reflect on their modern lives. 
Performed by Notre Dame students and directed by Tim Hardy, “Natural Selection” takes place in the future where everyone eats microwave food, posts on blogs instead of engaging in actual conversation, wears tight sparkly leggings and has an entire wardrobe in their fanny packs. In this time setting, there is the Cultural Fiesta Theme Park where all things “cultural” are dis­played — including Native Americans. When their Native American “stock” begins to run low, however, curator Henry Carson (sophomore Kevin Barsaloux) decides to go into the desert and bring back another specimen of this rare breed. Unfortunately, his precious find turns out to be part Nicaraguan with Chino-Brazilian ancestry. Paid to pretend to be a genuine Navajo, the adventures begin as the world starts to seemingly revolt against the technological taming which has been overruling nature. And so “natural selection” begins ... and may the fittest survive. 
The absurdity of the scenario we are presented with, complemented by the costumes and the dialogue, draws the viewer into a reality not so far from our own — but given an extra satirical twist. Nowadays, many families already eat only microwave food and to some people, blogging is the new in-person conversation. When the main character’s child is at a virtual school, playing the clarinet in his vir­
“Natural Selection” highlights, is that these people, who are more and more rare to encounter, are the ones who carry our culture — thus being placed in a Cultural Theme Park. Technology is overriding our lives and our culture, leaving us cul­
tual band, we might feel a sneaking  ‘Natural Selection’ is a  tureless. What happens when this  
suspicion that in a not too distant future this might be our family. It’s a realization that gives us no other option than to laugh. And indeed,  highly comical play that has a plot that is sure to make the audience  lifestyle culminates is what the play dab­bles in and what makes it such a suc­cess. The play will be performed in the  
“Natural Selection” is a highly comi­cal play that has a plot that is sure to make the audience toss their heads back in laughter, if not feel a touch  toss their heads back in laughter, if not feel a touch of sadness or  Regis Philbin Studio Theatre, a black box theatre, where the ceiling, the walls and the chairs are black, highlighting the contrast with the white minimalist  
of sadness or even concern for the path our lives seem to be taking. Scenes such as the interaction of Carson with his wife, or his family  even concern for the path our lives seem to be taking.  scenario. The only props are a couple of tables, chairs and futuristic laptops. The characters change clothes on stage, adding or removing a jacket, tie or  
with the half-native he captures, are  apron from their handy fanny packs.  
interesting to watch as Coble adapts  Extensively rehearsed and anxiously  

our current modern life with what is, to a certain anticipated, “Natural Selection” is not to be missed. extent, a prediction of the future. “Natural Selection” is “Natural Selection,” presented by the Department of reminiscent of Aldous Huxley’s classic “Brave New Film, Television and Theatre, will premiere tomorrow at World,” having the same comic appeal rooted in the 7:30 p.m. and run through Sunday. Tickets are available fear for a lonely future, where robotic attitudes compro-online and at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center box mise intrapersonal interactions and “culture parks” are office. They are $10 for students, $12 for faculty and presented as a wild form of entertainment, although the staff, and $15 for the general public. number of authentic “indigenous peoples” is now scarce. What is frightening to realize, and what Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 
page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Monday, February 22, 2010 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
No. 19 Pitt hands No. 3 Nova second loss in a row 
Leuer blocks a shot in final seconds as Wisconsin defeats Northwestern; Turner aids Ohio State’s victory over MSU 
next game,” Villanova coach broken wrist that caused him 
Associated Press 
Jay Wright said. “When we to miss a big chunk of the Big 
PITTSBURGH — No. 19 were winning, that’s what we Ten season. Pittsburgh controlled the told them. It’s what we always But his critical blocked shot tempo and the offensive talk about.” in the closing seconds of rebounding to hand No. 3 Villanova was expected to Sunday’s narrow victory over Villanova it second consecu-contend for the Big East title Northwestern shows how tive loss. from the start of this season. important the big man can be 
Ashton Gibbs scored 21 For Pitt its successful season for No. 14 Wisconsin. points, Gilbert Brown added is a surprise given all the tal-With the Badgers leading by 16 and Gary McGhee’s 10 ent it lost from last season’s three, Leuer jumped to block rebounds led the Panthers to team, including big man a layup attempt by the the upset of the Wildcats 70-DeJuan Blair. Wildcats’ Michael Thompson 65 on Sunday. But Pitt’s third victory over a with 11 seconds remaining. 
The first meeting between top five opponent this season Jason Bohannon and Trevon the two teams since —the Panthers have also beat-Hughes each sank a pair of Villanova’s dramatic NCAA en the Orange and West free throws from there, allow-tournament win last year Virginia —has coach Jamie ing Wisconsin to escape with turned out to be another typi-Dixon’s team brimming with a win. cal, physical Big East confidence. “The block was just trying matchup. Last season, star Pitt pulled into a tie for third to make up for all those free guard Scottie Reynolds’ last-in the Big East with West throws I missed,” Leuer said. second dash to the basket Virginia, two games behind “I don’t know what I was gave the Wildcats a 78-76 win Syracuse. thinking there.” to send them to the Final Four. “We stepped closer to win-Bohannon scored 17 points 
No last-second heroics on ning the Big East regular sea-to lead the Badgers (20-7, 10­Sunday for Reynolds, who fin-son,” Jermaine Dixon said. 5 Big Ten), who were coming ished with 20 points. “Last year, we put it past us off a loss at Minnesota and 
“I wanted to win that game now that this game is over, had lost two of their last three for the players that left last and that’s just a step to us get-games coming into Sunday. year,” said Pitt guard ting the Big East regular sea-John Shurna scored 26 for played. I thought he was a lit-The Buckeyes quieted the Jermaine Dixon, one of only son.” the Wildcats (17-10, 6-9), who tle bit off there at the begin-Breslin Center crowd with a two seniors on this year’s Reynolds spent most of the narrowly missed a chance at ning. He had some great big run midway through the squad. “I felt bad for losing first half on the bench with an impressive road win and looks. But there were no first half to grab a 23-12 lead. that game and I felt responsi-two fouls and had to fend off have lost three of their last legs.” Buford had nine points in the ble and I definitely wanted to harassing defense from the four. Turner scored 16 points in first 12 minutes, while Dallas win that game for them.” Panthers, including Dixon, “I think we came together,” the second half. Lauderdale had three dunks 
This time, the Panthers (21-much of the afternoon. Shurna said. “It’s kind of William Buford had 17 off half-court sets. 6, 10-4) built up enough of a Brown’s thunderous dunk off tough to say after a loss we points and 10 rebounds for Turner made only one of his cushion to hold up against the a baseline move with 1:29 left did well. I think it shows the the Buckeyes, who squan-first eight shots and scored Wildcats (22-4, 11-3), who lost gave the Panthers (21-6, 10-4 caliber of guys we are. I think dered a 14-point second-half just four points in the first back-to-back games for the Big East) a six-point lead. we could’ve just laid an egg lead before rallying for the half. But his teammates first time in two seasons and like how we’ve been doing victory. helped out and the Buckeyes fell a game back of Big East Wisconsin 70,Northwestern 63 lately, but I think we stayed Durrell Summers scored 16 took a 39-26 halftime lead. leader Syracuse. With some shaky free throw strong.” points for Michigan State, “It showed we can score,” 
“I think the good thing about shooting down the stretch, including seven straight to Turner said of the solid team our team is that they under-Jon Leuer showed that he still Ohio State 74,Michigan State 67 give the Spartans a 62-61 lead effort. “It’s not just me. It’s all stand how to move on to the isn’t all the way back from a Ohio State’s Evan Turner with 4:05 remaining. the guys. They made a lot of 
was dealing with a head cold Buford hit two free throws good plays.” and flulike symptoms when he to put the Buckeyes back on Ohio State outrebounded arrived at Michigan State for top 63-62. Turner’s jumper Michigan State 41-38. a crucial Big Ten road game. gave Ohio State a 65-62 lead The Spartans made just 9 of 
He left town feeling much with 2:55 left. 27 shots in the first half, while better after the Buckeyes Jon Diebler hit a 3-pointer committing nine turnovers. earned a victory Sunday. with 1:45 left to put the Michigan State protected the 
Turner had a strong second Buckeyes ahead 68 -62. ball better and shot better in half and finished with 20 Michigan State couldn’t rally the second half, but the dam-points and 10 rebounds to back, dropping a home game age had been done. tighten the conference stand-that leaves it needing a strong “We fought back, but it’s the ings. The No. 9 Buckeyes (21-finish to repeat as conference same story,” said Michigan 7, 11-4) and No. 11 Spartans champions. State’s Draymond Green, who (21-7, 11-4) are tied for sec-“Disappointed would be a finished with 11 points. “They ond place in the Big Ten, a foolish word right now,” made plays down the stretch. half-game behind Purdue. Michigan State coach Tom We didn’t.” 
Turner rested in the bleach-Izzo said. “It’s more than Michigan State has the week ers while the rest of the that.” off before traveling to Purdue Buckeyes took shooting prac-Michigan State’s Kalin Lucas for a Feb. 28 matchup. That tice Saturday night. Turner went 0 for 5 from the floor game was going to be huge for got a plateful of food —then and scored just one point in Michigan State’s title hopes didn’t eat it — Sunday morn-the first half before finishing regardless of what happened ing. with nine points in the game. against the Buckeyes. 
“He did a tremendous job of Raymar Morgan had nine “Our situation was really battling through it,” Ohio points and 14 rebounds. going to be the same,” Izzo State coach Thad Matta said The Buckeyes stayed in the said. “We have to beat Purdue of his star, who leads the Big Big Ten race by winning on down there, either way.” Ten in scoring and rebound-the road against a much deep-Ohio State plays at Penn ing. “You have to give him a er team. Ohio State used just State and then hosts Michigan lot of credit for how he six players Sunday. later this week. 


CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Faculty/grad students.  If you or someone you care about  And then when you said you defi- 
WANTED  ——————————————— FOR RENT  2 bdrm, 2.5 bath, LR, DR, FR,  PERSONAL  has been sexually assaulted, we can help. For more information, visit  nitely didn't wanna have kids?  
Notre Dame's website:  Who had is reversed back!  
Florida room, utility room.  http.csap.nd.edu  Snip snap snip snap snip snap!  
P/T WORK - $10/HR  Off-Campus housing 2010-11 and  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  ———————————————  
2011/12. Irish Crossings, Dublin  2-car attached garage.  not go it alone. Notre Dame has  When I said that I wanted to have  I did!  
FOR INDIE FILM CO.  Village, Wexford Place.  many resources in place to assist  kids and you said that you wanted  
Security system.  you. If you or someone you love  me to have a vasectomy, what did I  You have no idea the physical toll  
Looking for ND student to be stu- Also a few houses and Villas.  needs confidential support or assis­ do?  that three vasectomies have on a  
dent ambassador for NYC ind. film  Some furnished.  Available now.  tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at  person.  
co.  Call 574-298-4206. CES Property  1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For  And then, when you said that you  
Management  262-332-0015.  more information, visit ND's web  might want to have kids and I was- And I bought the condo,  
Email contact@livefreemedia.com  ———————————————  Shown by appt.  site:  n't so sure? Who had the vasecto­ 
for details.  gradrentals.viewwork.com  1616 E. Colfax.  http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu  my reversed?  to fill will children!  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  


Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Monday, February 22, 2010 
page 13 
NCAA Division I Women’s Gymnastics Rankings 
team previous 
1 Alabama 2 2 Oklahoma 1 3 Oregon State 7 4 Florida 6 5 Utah 4 6 Arkansas 3 7 Georgia 9 8 Stanford 8 9 UCLA 5 10 Nebraska 10 11 LSU 11 12 Auburn 14 13 Penn State 15 14 Kentucky 12 15 Iowa State 16 16 Michigan 13 17 Missouri 17 18 Denver 19 19 Southern Utah 18 20 Illinois 20 21 Arizona 21 22 Michigan State 22 23 Washington 24 24 Arizona State 25 25 North Carolina State 23 
NCAA Division I USA Today Men’s Wrestling Rankings 
team previous 
1 Iowa 1 2 Iowa State 2 3 Ohio State 3 4 Oklahoma State 4 5 Minnesota 5 6 Cornell 6 7 Lehigh 7 8 Oklahoma 8 9 Maryland 9 10 Penn State 10 11 Boise State 12 12 Central Michigan 11 13 Indiana 13 14 Wisconsin 15 15 Oregon State 14 16 Kent State 16 17 Missouri 17 18 Pittsburgh 18 19 Virginia Tech 20 20 Cal Poly 19 21 Illinois 21 22 Rutgers 23 23 Purdue 24 24 Virginia 25 25 Edinboro 22 


around the dial 
NCAA Men’s Basketball 
West Virginia at Connecticut 7 p.m., ESPN 
NBA 
Bulls at Wizards 7 p.m., CSN 
PGA 

Woods’ public apology draws mixed reviews 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Across the media landscape, time stopped for 13 1/2 minutes Friday as Tiger Woods emerged from the shadows with a much-awaited, tight­ly packaged video apology for his sexual escapades. 
Dozens of broadcast net­works, cable news outlets and online streams carried his scripted statement live, allowing a global audience to see and hear from Woods for the first time since his public image went into free fall nearly three months ago. 
Viewers by the millions paused to watch and listen as the golf great spoke from the clubhouse at the TPC Sawgrass, home of the PGA Tour, in Ponte Vedra, Fla. Meanwhile, news anchors, TV pundits and morning show hosts sat ready to pounce with their reviews. 
ABC’s George Stephan­opoulos called the speech “one of the most remark­able public apologies ever by a public figure.” 
“He (Tiger) left nothing on the table,” Stephanopoulos said. “This is a man who has thought a lot about what he did.” 
Rick Cerone, former New York Yankees public rela­tions director, disagreed. “What I saw was arrogance. ... It was basically an infomercial,” he said on CNN. 
“I think he was very gen­uine in his responses and his statement,” Debert Cook, publisher of African American Golfer’s Digest, said on BBC News 24 televi­sion in London. “I think we are entering a whole new era spiritually and emotion­ally for Tiger Woods. There’s always going to be the doubters out there but I think we have to take him at his word and watch his actions.” 
CBS’ David Feherty, who has covered Woods on the circuit, said, “I have never seen him appear so vulnera­ble. ... I was very impressed with what he said.” 
“The vast number of peo­ple just want their Tiger Woods back,” Feherty said. 
Covering Woods’ appear­ance were networks as far-flung as the Golf Channel and business network CNBC (which had a digital count­down clock on the screen beforehand and dubbed Woods’ remarks his “Media Culpa”). 
It was unusual for such a broad swath of TV outlets to hand several minutes of precious airtime to any pub­lic figure with a message to peddle, no questions asked. 
On the other hand, Woods’ message was short, dramat­ic and — no matter if you bought his remorse or not 
— gripping when he declared, “I was unfaithful, I had affairs, I cheated. What I did is not acceptable, and I am the only person to blame.” 
IN BRIEF 
Damon completes physical, prepares to join Tigers 
LAKELAND, Fla. — A person familiar with the negotiations says Johnny Damon has completed his physical with the Detroit Tigers, clearing the way for the team to finalize a one-year contract with the outfielder. 
The person spoke Sunday to The Associated Press on condition of anonymity because the deal hadn’t been announced. 
Another person familiar with the situ­ation said Saturday night that the Tigers and Damon agreed on an $8 million, one-year deal, subject to a physical. 
The 36-year-old Damon would bring another left-handed bat to the Tigers’ lineup besides switch-hitter Carlos Guillen. Guillen and Damon would likely alternate between left field and desig­nated hitter, but manager Jim Leyland says Guillen would be his everyday hit­ter out of the No. 5 slot. Leyland said he told Guillen last fall that he would be the full-time left fielder. 
Mayor of Rome announces plans to build baseball stadium 
LAUSANNE, Switzerland — Baseball is about to have a permanent home in Rome. 
Mayor Gianni Alemanno announced plans Sunday to donate a parcel of land for a new, baseball-specific stadium that can host international events. It will be built in Tor Vergata, an area south of the city where there’s a cam­pus for the University of Rome. 
“Rome doesn’t have a baseball stadi­um that can host international events and as a mayor, I felt I had to fill this deficiency,” Alemanno said in a state­ment issued following an executive meeting of the International Baseball Federation. 
The meeting was the first under the direction of IBAF president Riccardo Fraccari, who hopes to expand the game on a global basis after it was removed from the Summer Olympics. 
“I am positive baseball has a great potential in Rome,” Alemanno said. 
Mauer enters spring training without contract extension 
FORT MYERS, Fla. — American League MVP Joe Mauer reported to spring train­ing for the Minnesota Twins on Sunday without a contract extension in place. 
He hasn’t talked specifics about the negotiations all offseason and said that won’t change now that spring training is beginning. 
“I’m not going to get into that,” the catcher said. “It would just open up a can of worms.” 
Mauer is entering the final year of his deal and the Twins are trying to get a long-term extension done before the reg­ular season begins. The Twins have also refused to publicly discuss the process. 
He won his third AL batting crown last year for his hometown team and helped lead the Twins to the AL Central title. 
Mauer said he expected to field a lot of questions about contract negotiations from the local and national media and that he would handle them the same way. 
page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, February 22, 2010 
OLYMPICS 
Miller makes comeback for Olympic victory 
Associated Press 
WHISTLER, British Columbia — Bode Miller finally won his elusive gold medal, using a blistering slalom run Sunday to complete one of the most unlikely Olympic come­backs ever. 
Four years after bombing out amid lofty expectations at the Turin Games and a year after practically walking away from the sport, Miller won the super-combined for his third medal in as many events at Vancouver. 
Seventh after the morning down­hill run, Miller skied the third-fastest afternoon slalom leg for a two-run time of 2 minutes, 44.92 seconds — a comfortable 0.33 ahead of Ivica Kostelic of Croatia, who matched his silver medal at Turin. Silvan Zurbriggen of Switzerland claimed bronze, 0.40 back. 
For a guy who has insisted that medals aren’t important, this one clearly was special. 
“The way I executed, the way I skied, is something I’ll be proud of the rest of my life,” Miller said. 
“I skied with 100 percent heart 
— I didn’t hold anything back. … It’s just awesome. There’s nothing else to say.” 
Having skipped summer training while he debated retiring, Miller nearly didn’t have enough energy to hold on as he came over the final pitch of the slalom course. 
“My legs started feeling really wobbly,” he said. “I didn’t even feel like I was looking at the gate any­more.” 
Miller has also won a silver and a bronze at the Vancouver Games — a sharp contrast from his no-medal performance in Turin. 
Miller said he was running on “fumes” following his first two races, the downhill and the super-G. 
“I felt awesome about it,” he said. “But still, it’s incredibly emo­tionally exhausting to do it like that. 
“I’ve got one leg that’s injured and another leg that’s on my boat already,” he added, looking for­ward to his postseason vacation. 
Miller and Kostelic were 1-2 when downhill leader Aksel Lund Svindal came down, and when the big Norwegian failed to complete his slalom leg, Miller had the gold medal that had eluded him since he burst onto the scene at Salt Lake City in 2002. 
“I figured they both had really good runs, so I couldn’t hold back,” Svindal said. “I had to attack it if I had any chance to get that gold.” 
Miller was faster than Svindal on the upper section of the downhill run, but acknowledged a series of mistakes on the lower part. Still, having begun his career as a slalom specialist, he wasn’t count­ing himself out and charged all the way down in the second leg. 
Miller increased his lead at both checkpoints in the slalom. He skied fluidly on the top, then started to get bounced up in the air as he tried to maintain his speed on the quicker gates in the lower section, just barely making one gate after another. 
He dropped some speed before the finish but maintaining enough to beat Kostelic. 
Miller called the second half of his slalom run “a joke.” 
“I don’t know how I got those last 15 gates through the finish,” he said. “It was literally just willpower, because my legs were completely shot.” 
The last of Miller’s five World Cup slalom wins came more than five years ago, and he has been searching since then to rediscover his form in the discipline. 
This run should satisfy him. 
Miller let out a big smile upon crossing the finish line and stuck out his tongue while the crowd roared its approval. 
“Slalom in my mind is the tough­est event,” Miller said. “When you ski slalom well, it’s the best event there is. When you ski it poorly, it’s the worst event there is.” 
What’s more, Miller managed to survive a slalom course set by Kostelic’s father and coach, Ante, who is known for his tricky sets. 
“I think slalom skiers for sure wouldn’t have a great chance if the slalom course was simple,” Ivica Kostelic said. “The setting was quite demanding, but not as demanding as it could be. But demanding enough so that the slalom skiers could make up time.” 
Along with his father, Kostelic shared the moment with older sis­ter Janica, who won the combined at the past two Olympics, then retired. 
“We’ve been together all of our lives,” Ivica Kostelic said. “I think it’s fair that we share this moment together as well. Dad’s course cer­tainly helped.” 
Carlo Janka of Switzerland fin­ished fourth and Ted Ligety, the American who won the traditional combined in Turin, finished fifth despite posting the fastest slalom run. 
When Ligety won four years ago, the combined used the traditional format of one downhill run and two slalom legs. With only one slalom run now, the new format doesn’t favor Ligety as much, and he had too much ground to make up after placing 15th in the down­hill. 

Still, Ligety was pleased to have Miller replace him as Olympic champion — adding to his four world championship golds in four different disciplines. 
“He’s been really motivated,” Ligety said. “It’s cool to really see him win an Olympic gold. That’s what’s been missing from his resume.” 

Monday, Februray 22, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
ND TRACK & FIELD 
Men win Indoor Big East championship 
By MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
With five individual titles and 15 all-Big East selections, the Irish men claimed the 2010 Indoor Big East champi­onship this weekend for the fourth time in eight seasons. The women’s squad also made an impressive showing, finish­ing sixth. 
In a dominating perform­ance on the men’s side, sopho­more Johnathan Shawel won the 1,000-meter run, senior Eric Quick won the triple jump, sophomore Jack Howard won the 800 meters, junior Justin Schneider won the heptathlon and senior Matt Schipper won the pole vault. The Irish earned 146.50 points, finishing 42.50 points above the next closest team. 
For the women, senior Joanna Schultz earned all-Big East accolades and won the 400-meter dash. Three other athletes earned all-conference honors as well. 
Other standout performers included sophomore Jordan Carlson and senior Daniel Clark in the men’s mile, fin­ishing second and third respectively; both earned all-conference honors in the process. 
Senior Blake Choplin fin­ished second in the men’s 1,000, while Denes Veres also earned points for the Irish and Big East honors, finishing sec­ond in the men’s shot put. The men’s 4 x 800-meter relay fin­ished second and earned all-Big East honors. 
Up next for the Irish is the final qualifying meet for the indoor season, the Alex Wilson Invitational at Notre Dame on March 5-6. The Irish will look to add to the already lengthy list of NCAA Championship qualifiers in that meet. Schultz, Howard and Matt and Kevin Schipper are among the Irish who have already qualified. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
MEN’S TENNIS 
ND loses one-point match 
By KATE GRABAREK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish dropped a tough match Saturday against No. 25 Washington by a score of 4-3. 
The Huskies were the seventh ranked team the Irish have faced in eight dual matches this season. It was the fourth match this season decided by a one-point margin. 
“Our match with Washington was a disappointment in that we had hoped we were capable of going out there and win­ning,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “We got strong efforts from Dan Stahl, David Anderson and Sam Keeton in their singles wins, but fell short in the other three. Our best chance to win came at No. 2 singles as Stephen Havens lost a tie-breaker to drop the first set and lost some momentum after that.” 
The Irish fell behind early after being swept in doubles. 
Junior Tyler Davis and sopho­more Casey Watt teamed up at No. 1 doubles for the Irish and fell by a score of 8-1 to Kyle McMorrow and Jeevan Nedunchezhiyan. 
Junior Stephen Havens and sophomore Niall Fitzgerald fell at No. 2 doubles for the Irish 8­4 to Derek Drabble and Martin Kildahl, while juniors David Anderson and Dan Stahl fell at No. 3 doubles by a score of 8-3. 
“The disappointment for me has been our doubles play of late,” Bayliss said. “We started the season strongly there, but have not been very effective recently. We are really going to look at our combinations this week to see if some adjust­ments are necessary.” 
No. 51 Nedunchezhiyan was able to defeat Watt at No. 1 sin­gles to give Washington a 2-0 lead early in the match. 
No. 101 Stahl was able to cut the lead in half with a win over Drabble at No. 3 singles. 
No. 105 Irish freshman Blas Moros was defeated at No. 5 singles by Tobi Obeanus by a score of 6-3, 6-3 to pull Washington within a win on any court to clinch the match. 
The winning point came from McMorrow for Washington as he won over No. 123 Havens at No. 2 singles 7-6 (2), 6-3. 
Anderson came through after the match was decided at No. 4 singles to improve his record to 4-1 in dual matches this season for the Irish. 
“David Anderson has come on strong for us as the season has progressed,” Bayliss said. “He has added good all court skills and can finish at the net, something that was problemat­ic for him as a freshman. He has a big first serve, penetrat­ing ground strokes and coun­ters better than he did even a year ago. More than anything he has a real presence on the court and great determina­tion.” 
Sophomore Sam Keeton clinched another win for the Irish at No. 6 singles over Alex Rosinski in three sets to give the Irish their third victory on the day. 
The Irish will return home this weekend to host three matches at the Eck Tennis Pavilion, beginning with Michigan State Saturday at 3 
p.m. The Irish will then host a doubleheader Sunday against Wisconsin and Toledo. 
Contact Kate Grabarek at kgraba02@saintmarys.edu 

MLB 
Pujols ready for new season 
Associated Press 
JUPITER, Fla. — For the first time in several springs, Albert Pujols has peace of mind. Reconstructive elbow surgery no longer hangs over his head. 
Last year’s unanimous NL MVP had a half-dozen bone spurs removed from his chronically troublesome right elbow during offseason surgery. When he awoke, doctors told him it was likely he’ll never have to under­go reconstructive surgery. That had been a possibility since 2003. 
Pre-and postoperative consul­tation with Dr. James Andrews and Dr. George Paletta, the team physician, eased any worries. 
“I told Dr. Paletta and Dr. Andrews ‘If you go in there and you see something different from the test, go ahead and get it done,’” Pujols said Sunday. “They didn’t. It’s good news to hear Dr. Andrews tell me that probably you will never have to worry about having the Tommy John (surgery).” 
The three-time MVP, however, is getting tired talking about a contract extension. 
Pujols has a year remaining on a seven-year, $100 million con­tract, plus the Cardinals have an option for 2011. The 30-year-old Pujols has consistently said there’s no hurry for a new deal. 

“It’s getting to the point that it’s getting irritating to talk about my contract,” Pujols said. “Let’s wait until something happens, and then we’re going to have all the answers and you can throw every question you want. 
“As of right now, man, I don’t want to talk about it because I’m so sick and tired of everybody talking about my contract or writing about my contract every time,” he said. 
Pujols said he’s not about to walk into the offices of chairman Bill DeWitt Jr. or general manag­er John Mozeliak to talk about a contract. 
“That’s why I have my agent, and things are going to work out,” Pujols said. 
Pujols and Matt Holliday both hit the field for the first time on Sunday, two days ahead of the first full-squad workout. That’s peace of mind for manager Tony La Russa, who joked, “We got better today, didn’t we?” 
Pujols brought his family, including two-week-old son Ezra, anxious to swap snowy St. Louis for mid-70s temperatures at the team’s spring training complex in south Florida. 
Holliday showed up not to knock off rust but to hit the ground running. 
“I come in ready to get after it,” Holliday said. “The first at-bat of the first game, I’ll be expecting results. It’s probably not a good idea but I’m here to compete.” 
Both players had sessions with new hitting instructor Mark McGwire, and were eager to work with the former home run king. Holliday already had a good idea of McGwire’s approach after he and fifth-place hitter Ryan Ludwick spent two days with Big Mac in Austin, Texas, last month. 
Pujols was a rookie in 2001, McGwire’s last season, and said he might have been too shy or too reluctant to invade the veter­ans’ space that year. 
page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, February 22, 2010 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles earn No. 3 seed withvictory 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s defeated con­ference foe Albion 62-47 for the first time since February 2007 and did so by a comfortable margin as the Belles closed out their regular season with a road victory, clinching the third seed in the conference tour­nament. 
The Britons jumped out to an early 11-3 advantage due to Saint Mary’s poor shoot­ing from the field early in the game. However, about five minutes into the game, the Belles hit their first field goal and reeled off a 10-0 run to take the lead. Albion tied the score again, but Belles sophomore guard Maggie Ronan scored two of her eight points, putting the Belles in front — where they would stay the rest of the game. Saint Mary ’s stretched its lead to as much as 10, but the Britons continued to fight back, cut­ting the lead at the inter­mission to 26-23. 
Coming out of the break, Saint Mary’s methodically but quickly built up the lead with a 9-2 run out of the gate, regaining a 10-point lead and keeping at least that margin for the rest of the game. 
The offensive production was spread widely across the Belles ’ players. Sophomore forward Jessica Centa had a solid all-around performance, posting a stat line of 16 points, eight rebounds, two assists and a blocked shot. Sophomore forward Kelley Murphy had 10 points, while senior for­ward Anna Kammrath had nine points and led all rebounders with 14 boards. Sophomore guard Patsy Mahoney chipped in nine points as well. 
Albion shot only 30 per­cent from the field after its hot start thanks to the Belles’ stifling defense. 
With the victory, Saint Mary’s earned the third spot in the MIAA tournament. The Belles will host a rematch of this game when Albion visits Tuesday at 
7:30 p.m. in the Angela Athletic Facility. 
Contact Allan Jospeh at ajoseph2@nd.edu 

MEN’S SWIMMING 
Irishfallat conferencemeettoLouisville 
in 2009 at the hands of together a phenomenal 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
the Irish in which they meet that saw him set 
Sports Writer 
lost on the last relay of multiple Big East records. the championships. Freshman Bill Bass added After taking home the “The meet last year was a key swim in the 200 ­
last two Big East champi-decided on 
onships, the Irish settled the very last for second after Louisville race, ” Welsh prevailed Saturday at said. “There’s Trees Pool in Pittsburgh. defi nitely Louisville finished with a been a rival ­score of 808 points. Notre ry these last Dame finished with 758 three years points, ahead of at the Big Pittsburgh with 535. East meet.” 
Though his team relin -The Irish quished the title, Irish were pro ­coach Tim Welsh was pelled to the impressed with the team’s second -place performance. finish on the 
“There were a lot of season and lifetime best times posted at the meet. There’s a lot of fght in the Fighting Irish.” 
Tim Welsh Irish coach 
MacKenzie 
yard individ ­ual medley on Thursday, setting a Notre Dame record of 
1:46 .44 en route to a second -place finish . The opening relay 
of the meet saw seniors Lytle, Andrew Hoffman, LeBlanc and posted one of the fastest times in the nation in his event,” Welsh said. “Our relay in the 800 freestyle was also one of the fastest times in the nation this year.” 
With the championships behind them, the Irish will now look forward to the rest of the swim schedule. 
“The Big East meet is 
over, but the competitive season is not finished, ” Welsh said. “Primarily, we will look for a chance to compete in the National championships. Not every­one will get a chance to do that, but the people with the best times will compete.” 
The Irish will be back in 
a c t i o n on  M a r c h 4  a t t he  
A u s t i n  G r a n d  P r i x  i n  
Texas.  

Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 
“We are very pleased with how the guys raced,” Welsh said. “There were a lot of season and lifetime best times posted at the meet. There’s a lot of fight in the Fighting Irish.” 
The Cardinals bounced back from a tough defeat strength of several bril ­liant individual perform ­ances. Team leader and senior John Lytle finished second in the 100 -yard freestyle with a time of 
43.56 seconds, losing to Cincinnati ’s Josh Schneider, who put junior Steven Brus take home a first -place finish in the 800 freestyle relay, narrowly missing the school record with a time of 6:28.48. 
“Bill Bass ’s race was excellent, and John Lytle 

Monday, February 22, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
Schrage 
continued from page 20 
end for us,” Schrage said. “But when you have a veter­an lineup, offensively, you usually come out swinging the bats pretty well early on because that is all you do in practice, hit in the cage.” 
Ironically, the Irish did not use a single home run in the biggest rout of the weekend, the 19-3 onslaught Sunday. Martin had four RBIs off of two hits, and freshman out­fielder Charlie Markson knocked in three more runs, also off of two hits. 
“The biggest thing was we executed a lot of our game plan as far as moving run­ners, doing hit-and-runs, and hitting fly balls with guys on third, doing a really nice job in situations,” Schrage said of Sunday’s offensive out­burst. 
After barely missing the NCAA Tournament last sea­son, winning these first three games was crucial to the Irish, but Schrage said the team never focuses on more than one game. 
“[Winning the first three] is a lot as far as momentum for us,” he said. “The biggest thing we’ve been focused on is taking one game each day. I know it is a cliché, but we’ve talked about it with our guys. … They took each day separately, and there wasn’t any carryover.” 
Schrage said Notre Dame hopes that some of the momentum from this week­end will carry over for its upcoming games in Florida against Illinois and Ohio State. 

“It was real important for us to get off to a good start,” Schrage said. “Next weekend we have a big challenge going up against Ohio State, a team that is top-20.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
ND SOFTBALL 
Irish break losing streak with three quick wins 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
Though the bad weather forced a cancellation of its last game, it didn’t hinder Notre Dame’s ability to win games this weekend and end the team’s four-game losing streak at the Mizuno Classic in Hattiesburg, Miss. 
“We played really well together as a team, offensively and defensively, and it was nice to see the potential that we do have,” Irish assistant coach Kris Ganeff said. “We weren’t perfect but we played well enough to get the wins, and ultimately, that’s what’s most important.” 
The Irish began the weekend Saturday with a 1-0 victory over Louisiana Tech. 
The one Notre Dame run of the game came in the third inning when junior infielder Katie Fleury’s hard shot brought junior Sadie Pitzenberger around from sec­ond base. Starting pitcher jun­ior Jody Valdivia shut out Tech while striking out 13. 
“The pitching really stepped up this weekend,” Ganeff said “Valdivia set the tone for us.” 
Saturday night, the Irish handed Southern Mississippi (6-1) its first loss of the season on its home field in the form of a 7-6 defeat. 
“We came out ready to go which was nice to see because Southern Mississippi had been playing well and beating good teams,” Ganeff said. “Our girls came out with a bang and started putting the runs up early and put the other girls on their toes.” 
The Irish started off strong in the first three innings, going up 7-0, but gave up six runs in the fourth inning. Luckily, the Irish were able to hold off the Golden Eagles. 
“The difference between this weekend and last weekend was we weren’t in a must score position,” Ganeff said. “We were able to put runs up before they were able to. We really focused this weekend, looking forward, not back­wards.” 
Sunday, the Irish beat Stephen F. Austin State 3-0 for the team’s and Valdivia’s third win of the three total games Notre Dame played this week­end. 
Senior infielder Christine Lux had a two-run home run in the top of the sixth inning. The Irish scored again soon when senior catcher Alexia Clay hit a triple, then went home on a wild throw from Stephen F. Austin State’s pitcher. 
“Offensively, we were strug­gling against the left-handed pitcher that kept mixing up her pitches,” Ganeff said. “But right before the sixth inning, we figured out a plan and we told the team what we expect­ed in order to make an adjust­ment which they made, and we could score runs right away.” 
The Irish got into a tight spot at the end of the seventh inning with the bases loaded, no outs, and the winning run at the plate. After one Ladyjack foul out, and Valdivia’s final two strikeouts of the game, the Irish were able to win for the third and final time at the Mizuno Classic. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

means is that we’re 1-0 and we’re thrilled to be 1-0.” 
Duke 
The Irish will face Penn continued from page 20 State next Saturday at 1 p.m. in the Loftus Sports Center, tus. looking to continue a regular­
“I’m really happy for our season winning streak dating guys and it’s a terrific accom-back to an April 5, 2008 one­plishment,” he said. “But let’s goal loss to Denver. see where Duke finishes and where we finish. … It’s the Contact Allan Joseph at first game of the year, all it ajoseph2@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, February 22, 2010 
Bowling Green answered with Petruska beating Johnson for the 
led the team with 21 points, eight three straight goals in a five-win. 
rebounds and three assists. long 
CCHA Hoyas 
with Barlow, McGraw was pleased continued from page 20 to scrape out a 4-3 win over last four games, effectively drop-
minute span in the third period Notre Dame is winless over the continued from page 20 with the game senior center Erica freshman goalkeeper Mike ping the team out of contention 
Williamson gave her. Williamson cited his squad’s exhaustive list Johnson. for a decent finish in the CCHA. 
consecutive game with an ankle had only eight points and four of injuries as the prime reason “I thought we played well the The Irish will host Michigan in a 
injury. Schrader did not play in rebounds, but McGraw considered Notre Dame has faded as the first two periods,” Jackson said. home-and-home series next 
either the St. John’s or that great production based on CCHA season draws to a close. “We couldn’t sustain it. It’s been week in their season finale, hop-
Georgetown defeats. the amount of time she was on the “I think part of it is still a depth challenging in that regard for us ing to put together some 
“We really missed Lindsay floor. issue,” Jackson said. “We lost throughout the season. Injuries momentum before the confer-
Schrader,” McGraw said. “That’s “I was really happy with Erica [senior center] Kevin Deeth early break up your continuity with ence tournament in March. 
been a problem this week with Williamson, that was more min-in Friday night, our best faceoff everything.” “I’m glad we’ve got one more 
both games. She is our leading utes than she usually plays,” guy, and it leads to fatigue when Notre Dame gained a 1-0 lead home game,” Jackson said. “It’s 
rebounder, and we got out-McGraw said. “She played the we’re playing a short bench. I over the Falcons Saturday night going to be a special game for 
rebounded. We’ve gotten out-best. She was able to score, and think that hurt us Saturday with Palmieri’s eighth goal of the our senior class against 
rebounded two games in a row. she had four rebounds, and in 16 night.” season in the opening seconds of Michigan. We have to put our-
She is also our go-to player when minutes that is pretty good.” The Irish sprinted to a 3-1 lead the second period. Bowling selves in a good position for the 
we need a bucket. That has been The turnover differential was over the Falcons at BGSU Ice Green outshot the Irish 14-6 in tournament. We have to go into 
a problem that no one has been also an area of concern for Notre Arena Friday on goals from the third, notching the equalizer the playoffs playing well.” 
able to step up into her role and Dame, as it lost that battle 21-10. freshman wing Kyle Palmieri, in the process. A scoreless over-
rebound more.” This stat was of particular con-senior wing Ryan Thang and time forced a shootout, with sen-Contact Michael Blasco at 
Schrader is the team’s third cern to McGraw, as she prides junior defenseman Joe Lavin. ior Falcon forward Tomas mblasco@nd.edu 
leading scorer with 11.3 points herself on her team’s ability to per game and top rebounder with control the ball. 
7.3 rebounds per game. McGraw “We didn’t take care of the ball 
was hopeful that Schrader will be as we could have against the teams around really helped us.” Frilling beat Northwestern’s No. 
able to play Tuesday against press,” McGraw said. “Their tran-In the singles competition 12 first singles player Maria 
Marquette, but said her status is sition baskets off of our turnovers 
Upset 
against Illinois, No. 23 Frilling Mosolova who defeated Frilling 
still uncertain. were a big difference in the continued from page 20 beat the Illini’s No. 85 Rachael during the fall 2009 portion of 
In the absence of Schrader, the game.” White. Victories from the season. Mathews and 
Irish (22-3, 10-3 Big East) were When asked about her team’s of sophomore Kristy Frilling McGaffigan, Krisik and Ciobanu Chrissie McGaffigan each 
not able to get production out of inability to cause turnovers, and senior Kali Krisik. Partners rounded out the score to 5-2. defeated their nationally 
their big players, as junior for-McGraw was at a loss. Shannon Mathews and fresh-“We had a tougher match ranked opponents, No. 29 
wards Becca Bruszewski and “I don’t know what happened in man Chrissie McGaffigan won against Illinois, and we played a Samantha Murray and No. 108 
Devereaux Peters failed to pick up that regard. I was disappointed in their doubles match, as did sen-little tentatively as we were Kate Turvy, respectively, to 
the slack in the paint. Bruszewski that too,” McGraw said. “We iors Cosmina Ciobanu and down and had to come back” clinch the Irish win Sunday. 
played only 13 minutes and played pretty good half-court Colleen Rielley. Louderback said. “Though we Senior Cosmina Ciobanu added 
scored four points, while Peters defense, but we weren’t able to After losing the doubles point lost a few of the first sets, the a fifth point to Notre Dame’s 
played 17 minutes with two force any turnovers.” twice this season, the Irish have kids hung in there and compet-final score. 
points. Neither player had a Looking to the future, McGraw spent a large amount of their ed well in the end.” “We have a great rivalry with 
rebound. hopes that the team will be able to time in practice working on The hype associated with Northwestern,” Louderback 
“Devereux did not have her best bounce back against Marquette making sure that they had a beating Illinois carried over into said. “Especially after they won 
game, so I decided to play some-(14-12, 5-8). good shot at getting both dou-Sunday. the National Indoor 
one else, and Becca was in foul “It will just be good to be home,” bles points this weekend. “It was one of the few times Tournament last weekend, our 
trouble,” McGraw said. McGraw said. “We need to have “We switched the combina-we’ve competed as an under-kids felt like it was a good 
With the lack of production from our home crowd back, we really tions of the second and first dog,” Louderback said. opportunity for us. They always 
the frontcourt, the Irish gave up do.” doubles teams and the kids The three doubles teams play a good, fair and clean 
19 offensive rebounds to the The Irish tip off against played well together,” repeated their sweep against match.” 
Hoyas (22-4, 11-2) in comparison Marquette at 7 p.m. Tuesday. Louderback said. “We have the Wildcats for the first point 
to only eight of their own. been struggling and working on of the highly contested match. Contact Molly Sammon at 
The bright spot in the game was Contact Jared Jedick at doubles a lot, but switching the In singles competition, msammon@nd.edu 
senior captain Ashley Barlow, who jjedick@nd.edu 

1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  22  
23  24  
25  26  27  28  29  30  31  32  33  34  
35  36  37  38  
39  40  41  42  
43  44  45  46  
47  48  49  50  
51  52  53  54  
55  56  57  58  59  60  
61  62  63  64  
65  66  67  
68  69  70  

Monday, February 22, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
62Salvador who painted “ThePersistence of Memory”
63Halloweenish 65Ricelike pasta66Analogous (to) 67Les ___-Unis 68Comic book 
heroes originallycalled the MerryMutants 
69Identify 70Krispy Kremeoffering 
Down 
1 Belarus or Ukraine, once:Abbr. 
2 Org. with manyMideast members 
3 Turner who was known as the Sweater Girl 
4 Actress Cara 5 Early New York
governor Clinton 6 Lima's locale 7 Oil of ___ 8 Noisy bird 9 Raise 
10Big Super Bowladvertiser,traditionally
11 “So that's it!” 12Nautical bottom 13Clairvoyant's
claim 21Taverns 22Green-lights25Firenze friends 26What a drone 
airplane may do,for short 27Former Texas senator Phil 
WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Puzzle by Adam Cohen 
29“___ Lang Syne” 44Reno resident, 56Fog or smog30Before surgery e.g. 57Slight, as 32Cosa Nostra 45Western mil. 
chances leaders alliance 58Merlot, for one 
33Hilton rival 49Kind of movie 59Charter member 34Man and Wight glasses of 2-Down 36Two-timed 52Japanese port 60In ___ (as
originally
38Things two-54Shelley's “___ timers break the West Wind” located) 
40“Reward” for 55Four years, for a 61Practice pugilism poor service U.S. president 64Superlative suffix 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

Across 
1 Not striped, as a billiard ball 6 Apple or quince 
10With 18-Across,the Tour de France, for one 
14Diagonal line, on a bowling score sheet 
15Carrier to Tel Aviv 
16Applications 
17Extend, as a subscription 
18See 10-Across 
19Profound 
20Game show catchphrase #1 
23When a plane or train is due, forshort 
24Come out of a coma 
25Buenos Aires's country: Abbr. 
28Golf course pitfall 31Medieval martial art 
35Ford auto, briefly 
37Game show catchphrase #2 
39Corporate raiderCarl 
41Sign beforeVirgo 
42Neighbor of a petal 
43Game show catchphrase #3 
46Repetitivelearningtechnique 
47Prisoner 
48H.S. junior'shurdle 
50Thoroughfares:Abbr. 
51Save, in a way, 
as some shows 
53However, briefly 
55Game show 
catchphrase #4 
61Moccasin decoration 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 

JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 
Monday, February 22, 2010 page 20 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
A different kind of streak 
Irish drop their second 
in a row on the road  
By JARED JEDICK  
Sports Writer  
With a 76-66 loss at  
Georgetown Saturday, Notre  
Dame’s second defeat in a row,  
the No. 4 Irish fell to fourth in the  
Big East, behind the No. 14  
Hoyas.  
Irish coach Muffet McGraw said  
she saw a perfect storm of cir­ 
cumstances coming together last  
week to cause to the Irish to  
stumble for one of the few times  
this season.  
“It’s a combination of things: we  
are playing good teams, we are  
going on the road and we don’t  
have our go-to player,” McGraw  
said. “But we still could have won  
both games, but these are cer­ 
tainly not the best circumstances  
for us in a tough week.”  
McGraw attributed much of the  
team’s recent losses to the  
absence of senior guard Lindsay  
Schrader, who missed her second see HOYAS/page 18  SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer Senior guard Ashley Barlow defends the ball during Notre Dame’s 90-66 victory over DePaul on Feb. 14. The Irish have suffered two losses since that victory.  

ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
ND upsets top-ranked Wildcats 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
For the first time in program history, Notre Dame beat the top-ranked team in the country. No. 17 Notre Dame followed a 5­2 victory over Illinois Saturday with a 5-2 upset of No. 1 Northwestern Sunday. 
The Wildcats won the ITA National Kick-off Tournament last weekend, an event for which the Irish failed to qualify. 
“When we were preparing for this weekend, the kids were upset with their ranking, not qualifying for the National Indoor Tournament and they felt like they needed to get some of their respect back,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. “The kids came back and fought hard.” 
Against the Illini, the Irish first won the doubles point with the help of the No. 8 doubles pairing 
see UPSET/page 18 

MEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish upset second-ranked Duke to kickstart season in style 
ter, freshman midfielder Steve span to cut the Notre Dame Despite the offensive produc-Despite the landmark victory, 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Murphy scored his first colle-advantage to 6-5 at halftime. tion from the Irish, Irish coach Corrigan said the Irish will 
Sports Writer 
giate goal, in his first colle-The third quarter was back-Kevin Corrigan said he was continue to look forward. 
giate game. Duke got on the and-forth, but the Irish never most impressed by the defen-“It’s the first game — we can 
In a program first, the No. 9 board with 4:29 left in the first lost the upper hand, taking a sive efforts. get better in every single area Irish beat a top-two team quarter. It was the first of four 9-7 lead into the final session. “We were playing without of the game,” he said. “Not to Saturday with an 11-7 victory goals in the frenetic end of the Notre Dame would score twice Sam Barnes defensively, but all belittle what we did, but just to over second-ranked Duke in first quarter. more in the fourth quarter to three [of the defenders play-say there’s still a lot of the season opener. The Irish led 4-2 at the first ice the victory. ing] did a great job,” Corrigan progress to be made.” 
The Irish seized the lead — intermission and extended Notre Dame was led offen-said. “Our short stick defensive Corrigan also said it is too which they would not relin-their lead to four halfway sively by a hat trick from jun-midfielders were also really early to put too much stock in quish — just over three min-through the second quarter. ior midfielder Zach good, and our goalie played one victory, regardless of the utes into the game on a goal by The Blue Devils, however, con-Brenneman, as well as two-terrific.” Blue Devils’ powerhouse sta­senior attack Colin Igoe. tinued to press and scored goal efforts from Igoe, Murphy Senior goalie Scott Rodgers Midway through the first quar-three times in a 30-second and senior attack Neal Hicks. had a 15-save performance. see DUKE/page 17 
HOCKEY 
Notre Dame drops two more 
By MICHAEL BLASCO 
Sports Writer 
The Irish must be thinking they’re trapped in the movie “Groundhog Day,” because they keep playing the same game again and again. 
Notre Dame tallied a loss and a shootout loss in a road weekend series against Bowling Green, with the Irish letting late leads slip away in each game. The rough weekend drops Notre Dame to 12-14-7 overall and 8­11-6-2 in the CCHA, 10th in the conference. 
An inability to hold onto late leads has been a repeated theme for Notre Dame that led to the team’s foothold in the CCHA ero­sion. Irish coach Jeff Jackson 
see CCHA/page 18 

BASEBALL 
Martin leads the way in opening three wins 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame last won its first three games of the sea­son in 2004. This weekend the Irish did just that, by a combined score of 39-10. 
Notre Dame topped Mississippi Valley State three times in three days, starting Friday, by scores of 12-4, 8-3 and 19-3, respectively. The success on the trip to Mississippi started with the defense and the pitching, Irish coach Dave Schrage said. 
“What was nice about [the weekend] is we were able to throw a lot of guys,” Schrage said. “That is always impor­tant early on. … The strength of our club is the depth of our pitching staff.” 
While the pitching was stalwart in all three games, Notre Dame’s strength lay in its offensive firepower. Senior first baseman Casey Martin notched seven RBIs on the weekend, with a home run in each of the first two games. Martin opened his season with a 4-for-5 performance Friday, and fel­low seniors Ryne Intlekofer and left fielder Ryan Connolly also sent balls over the fence. 
“Casey had a great week-
see SCHRAGE/page 17 




