the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


ROTC event draws units to ND 
Annual Naval Leadership Weekend features Marine officer guest speakers, panel discussion 
By CARLY LANDON 
News Writer 
The Notre Dame Navy ROTC program welcomed more than 100 Naval personnel from nearly 40 schools to its 15th annual Naval Leadership Weekend (NLW), themed “The Evolving Role of the Navy/Marine Corps Team Against Unconventional Warfare.” 
“I chose the theme by just talk­ing to different people about what is facing the naval forces today and how it is different from year’s pasts,” NLW organiz­er Arianna Cassani, a junior, said. “The purpose of Naval Leadership Weekend is to devel­op midshipmen’s leadership skills and ethical decision mak­ing abilities so they can better be prepared to enter the military when they commission.” 
Junior Rochelle Rieger, a mem­ber of Notre Dame’s Navy ROTC, said 113 midshipmen and a total of 132 Naval personnel attended the event from 37 schools across the country. 
“Each year we invite other ROTC units from around the country,” she said. “Everyone stayed at Sacred Heart Parish across St. Joe’s lake, and on Friday and Saturday we had symposiums for all the partici­pants.” 
Events of the weekend includ­ed speeches by noted Naval Marine officers. Commander Mark Becker spoke on leader­ship and being a junior officer in the Navy, and Commander Kris Doyle gave a speech on the new Littoral Combat Ship and how it relates to evolving warfare. 
Rieger said the weekend’s 
see ROTC/page 6 




Club celebrates Arabic language, culture 
Studies minors. 
Professor Ghada Bualuan, chair of the Arabic Department and director and producer of the event, said it was a great way for students to experience Arabic culture and for the per­formers at the event to show­case their talents. 
“It was a unique opportunity to engage and explore the Arabic culture and forge a deeper connection to its peo­ple,” she said. “It was also an outlet for students of Arabic to perform on stage in the lan­guage and the culture that they are learning in the classroom.” 
Sophomore Joseph Dufour, vice president of the Arabic Club, said the event was a spe­
see ARABIC/page 6 

University announces addition of new dept. 
By JOHN TIERNEY 
News Writer 
The Academic Council approved the College of Science’s proposal to create the Department of Applied and Computational Mathematics and Statistics (DACMS) in its meeting Thursday. 
The new department will begin its programs for undergraduate and graduate students in the Fall 2010 semester, according to Gregory Crawford, dean of the College of Science. 
Crawford said the new depart­ment will work closely with the existing Department of Mathematics and with other departments across campus. 
“Statistics is so important in all disciplines,” he said. 
The new department was cre­ated in part to enhance the emphasis on statistics at the University, Crawford said. 
“We were trying to figure out how to get more statistics at Notre Dame,” he said. “If you look at [the U.S. News and World Report rankings of universities for undergraduate education], 15 of the top 20 schools have at least one statistics department. We had to do something.” 
Although the new department will be the first to concentrate entirely on applied mathematics and statistics at the University, it will not bring an entirely new field of study to Notre Dame. 
“Applied mathematicians at Notre Dame already do a lot of statistics and computational 
see DACMS/page 6 


By SAM STRYKER 
News Writer 
Mendoza’s Jordan Auditorium hosted the third annual Arabic Culture Night Friday, as stu­dents were able to experience a variety of forms of performing arts from the Middle East. 
The event consisted of several folkloric dances from Egypt and Lebanon as well as an oriental dance, a song, a poetry recita­tion, a comedy play and a slide show showcasing the program of Arabic Language and Culture. 
All music, reading and dia­logue was in Arabic and per­formed by students, most of whom are Arabic majors or Mediterranean/Middle East 



Close SMC friends named co-valedictorians 
Ind., and they graduated from valedictorian but it didn’t say share that honor together and I graduate school at the John Paul 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Northwestern High School who else it was going to be,” think it’s a really special gift that II Institute in Washington, D.C. 
News Writer 
together. Marrah and O’Connor O’Connor said. “So I was really we’ve been given.” “I’ll be getting a masters in achieved the same 4.0 GPA hoping it would be Audrey Though the girls have attend-theology focused on marriage 
From kindergarten graduation throughout their time at the because I knew that it was likely ed school together since kinder-and the family,” O’Connor said. to the College’s Commencement, College, and now, they have that she was going to be the garten, they will part ways post “This summer I am working at Saint Mary’s seniors Audrey been both been awarded the valedictorian.” graduation. Marrah, a biology my parish at home as an intern Marrah and Carly O’Connor honor of co-valedictorian for Because of their friendship major, said she plans to partici-in Family Life Ministry.” have been through the ups and Commencement this May. and history together, both pate in some international serv-Though they will have to say the downs together. “I was really excited,” Marrah Marrah and O’Connor said they ice work after graduation on their goodbyes, both Marrah and 
“We went to the same school said. “We had been hoping we were excited to share the title of May 15. O’Connor said they were grateful since kindergarten and we’ve would be able to share the honor co-valedictorian with each other. “There’s a program in Guyana, to share their valedictorian been like best friends since together. My main concern when “I’m so excited,” O’Connor South America that I’m looking experiences together. eighth grade. We both separately I found out was ‘oh, did Carly get said. “Having known her for so at,” Marrah said. “There’s “It’s been a wonderful gift and decided to come to Saint Mary’s it too?’ because it’s more fun if long, and we were roommates another one through the Holy I’m very thankful for it,” but we’ve still remained we can both share it together.” for three semesters and being Cross Brothers over at Notre O’Connor said. “I feel truly friends,” Marrah said. Marrah said she and O’Connor good friends with her — it’s such Dame, and that program’s in blessed.” 
Marrah and O’Connor have a learned the news via e-mail a an honor to share that with her, Uganda.” lot in common. They share the few weeks before Spring Break. to share in her hard work and O’Connor majored in English Contact Alicia Smith at same hometown of Kokomo, “[The e-mail] said I was co-who she is. We get to really Literature and plans to attend asmith01@saintmarys.edu 
INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Women’s basketball team tops Cleveland State page 20  Men’s lacrosse team defeats Ohio State page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, March 22, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Home, sweet home 
The flurry of brightly colored stick­ers in the hallway of my dorm this week are a bit of a throwback to kindergarten, but each time I pass the fluorescent greens and oranges, my heart beats a little bit faster. 
Megan Doyle 
These seeming­ly insignificant 
News 
dots actually hold 
Production
the fateful keys to 
Editor
the future of my life in Lyons Hall. Each circle coordinates with a possi­ble home for each Lyonite next year, and room picks have nearly every girl waiting for the end of Tuesday night with bated breath. 
Each member of my dorm stands waiting with the image of the perfect room in her eye, her lottery number in hand and her future roommate by her side. Should the stars align and the fates act graciously, rooming assignments will fall in into place per­fectly. However, as the dots for mock picks are arranged and rearranged, the hints of desperation and drama are beginning to fill the air. Our per­fect fourth floor double with the win­dow overlooking the lake is suddenly an object of the most intense competi­tion, and plans to beg and barter our way to that glorious room take shape while the fateful hour draws closer by the minute. 
Realistically, we know that we will make the best of our situation, no matter how the cards are dealt. Our current room, though tiny and conve­niently located next to the loudest pipes in the building, has been lived in and loved profusely. Yet we are anxiously awaiting the moment when we can escape the liberation of our tiny basement room for the more spa­cious settlements of the higher floors. As we envision our home for next year — the room that will house our comfortable futon, our many pairs of shoes, our collection of classic Disney movies, and (unfortunately) my room­mate’s giant cutout of Edward Cullen 
— can we help it if we find ourselves dreaming? This room will be the stage for Monday night dance parties, delusional pillow talk, late night study sessions, traditional Thursday night watch of The Office and midnight ice cream breaks — and we are carried away by far-fetched hope that our lowly pick No. 55 will secure our choice venue for these events. 
So we watch with fingers crossed for good luck and hearts racing with anticipation as the board begins to fill with bright bubbles and numbers. The luckiest of the Lyonites walk with a certain confidence in their step, secure in their single-digit pick num­bers and mentally moving on to deter­mining the layout for next year’s rooms. Others check their stickers between classes and fidget during lec­ture with anxiety. Alternatives are weighed over and over in each girl’s head, and all the possible arrange­ments are considered should reality spiral into the worst-case scenario. We barely dare to breathe, stomachs fluttering, hearts beating furiously, waiting for a place to call home, sweet home. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publica­tion and strives for the highest standards of journal­ism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR SPIRIT A IMAL? 

Colin Keeler 
sophomore Stanford 
“Cheetah. Cheetahs are sweet.” 


Erika Hansen Jee Seun Choi 
sophomore sophomore McGlinn Breen-Phillips 
“Mufasa!” “Pegasus!” 

Joey DiPiero 
sophomore Stanford 
“Seahorse, because they have both man and lady parts.” 


Josh Shumway senior Keenan  Mariko Seilie sophomore Breen-Phillips  
“Tiger.”  “A panther.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer The Notre Dame women’s basketball team gets pumped up prior to tip-off against Cleveland State in a first-round NCAA Tournament game at the Purcell Pavilion Sunday afternoon. The Irish scored the victory, 86-58. 
OFFBEAT 
Airline crew faces jail time for sending sexual texts 
DUBAI — Two Emirates airlines cabin crew have been ordered jailed for three months in Dubai over sexually explicit text messages, the latest in a string of indecency cases against foreigners, a news­paper reported Wednesday. 
The pair, an Indian flight attendant and her cabin services supervisor, were convicted of “coercion to commit sin” over the mes­sages and initially sen­tenced to six months in jail, The National newspa­per said on its website, cit­ing court documents. 
The sentence was reduced on appeal last week to three months and deportation orders against the pair were lifted, it added. It did not reveal the content of the messages. 
Private school staffer arrested for poisoning soup 
LONDON — An investi­gation has begun at one of Britain’s most prestigious private schools after a member of staff was arrested on suspicion of trying to poison the pupils’ soup, police said on Wednesday. 
Detectives were called to Stowe School, whose for­mer pupils include billion­aire Virgin Group founder Richard Branson, after other members of staff raised the alarm about strange smells in the food last Friday. 
“During routine checks, school staff became suspi­cious that foodstuffs had been tampered with and the police were alerted,” said a spokesman for Stowe, set in 750 acres of impressive grounds near Buckingham, 60 miles northwest of London. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Tuesday Wednesday 



IN BRIEF 
An exhibition titled “All Art is Propaganda” will begin at 8 
a.m. today in room 102 in the Hesburgh Library Special Collections. 
The Institute for Latino Studies will offer a lecture titled “Migration and Development, Chicago to Guanajuato,” which will begin at 4 p.m. today in room C-103 of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. 
The Ph.D in Literature Program is sponsoring colloqui­um titled “Revolution, Crisis, and Memory: Narratives from the Southern Cone” will take place at 4:30 p.m. today in the Hesburgh Center Auditorium. 
The Center for Social Concerns will offer a keynote discussion “Faithful to Justice: Religious Voices of Hope in the Black Community,” begining tonight at 6:30 p.m. in Geddes Hall. 
The “Prayer from Around the World” series will continue with a Baha’i Devotional Gathering today at 7 p.m. in the Coleman-Morse Lounge. 
The Notre Dame women’s softball team will face Eastern Michigan at 4 p.m. tomorrow in Melissa Cook Stadium. 
The Timmy Foundation’s 2nd annual global health sympo­sium, “Global Health Equality: A Focus on Haiti,” will take place from 2-7 p.m. on Saturday in the Jordan Hall of Science. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed infor­mation about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
Thursday Friday 


Atlanta 46 / 40 Boston 54 / 45 Chicago 53 / 33 Denver 62 / 37 Houston 70 / 46 Los Angeles 72 / 51 Minneapolis 58 / 35 New York 61 / 49 Philadelphia 64 / 50 Phoenix 83 / 60 Seattle 54 / 42 St. Louis 58 / 37 Tampa 68 / 54 Washington 65 / 48 
Monday, March 22, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




Wabruda sponsors Black Man’s Think Tank 
Weekend event draws in community to focus on progress of African American men in the American economy 
ship among black men on cam-“Being on Notre Dame’s cam-“Whenever you have an event approach to business and work 
By NORA KENNEY 
pus. Saturday’s event aimed to pus [and] seeing students like that empowers African ethic. 
News Writer 
embody the three main themes ourselves, for an example, is American men it’s a must-Ndukwe was followed by Dr. of Wabruda: community serv-good for the South Bend com-attend event, because so often Robert Price, an ordained pas-
Members of the South Bend ice, intellectual elevation and munity,” said senior Kevin Fobi, we hear the negative,” Jackson tor who discussed the role of community joined with Notre faith in God, members said. vice president of Wabruda. said. “This is an event that faith in the management of Dame faculty, staff and stu-“It’s really helpful to provide “Plenty of people live in South focuses on empowerment and money. dents for the third annual useful information to the Bend but never get to go to positive aspects of finding bal-Following the discussion Black Man’s Think Tank, spon-broader African American com-campus and see the African ance.” forum was a luncheon at sored by the student group munity in Americans Retired civil engineer Josh Legends with a roundtable dis-Wabruda, in DeBartolo Hall addition to who are Chapple, an active stock mar-cussion, a showing of the film Saturday. the wider “It’s really helpful to living at ket investor and a volunteer in “The Pursuit of Happyness” 
The weekend’s event, communi -ND and the South Bend community, dis-and a Black History Tour of 
provide useful
“Moving Up in a Down ty,” said succeed -cussed the mind aspect of the Chicago on Sunday. Economy in a Holistic Wa bruda information to the broader ing.” holistic approach to the econo-Members of Wabruda said Approach: Mind, Body and president African American J e f f my and addressed the young they appreciate the events like Soul” intended to stimulate dia-J a r r e d Jackson, a African Americans in the audi-this weekend’s and what the 
community in addition
logue about the role of black Carter, a f a c u l t y ence as “the future leaders of club has done to enhance their men in American society. senior. to the wider community.” m e m b e r our community.” college experience. Wabruda, which takes its He said it f r o m Junior Khai Thomas, a mem-“It is geared to a certain name from the Swahili word for was for that I n d i a n a ber of Wabruda, said he was demographic, but it’s open to 
Jarred Carter 
“brotherhood,” works to pro-reason that University, most looking forward to the everyone and we have had 
Wabruda president 
mote brotherhood and leader-the club put h e a r d speaker who followed Chapple: members from all walks of life more effort about the Chinedum Ndukwe, a former which has been really interest-into adver-event from safety on the Notre Dame foot-ing and really enhanced our tising this year, using radio Wabruda advisor David Moss, a ball team who now plays for experience of being here,” announcements, announce-professor of psychology at the Cincinnati Bengals. Thomas said. ments in local churches, elec-Notre Dame and the Ndukwe spoke about the body tronic fliers in LaFortune and University’s Vice President of and how physical activity is Contact Nora Kenney at posters on campus. Student Affairs. conducive to a proactive hkenney@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, March 22, 2010 



World & Nation 
Monday, March 22, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Small quake kills 3 in Haiti 
PORT-AU-PRINCE — A small earthquake struck northern Haiti early Sunday, collaps­ing an apartment building and killing at least three people. 
Residents said the tremor struck Haiti’s second-largest city of Cap-Haitien shortly after midnight, collapsing the four-story building. Some nearby structures were damaged by the collapse but no other effects were reported. 
Witnesses said it had been raining, which could have weakened the ground under the structure. 
A small, 3.7-magnitude aftershock was felt in Port-au-Prince late Saturday night. 

Iran remains cold to Americans 
TEHRAN, Iran — Iran’s supreme leader sharply denounced the United States on Sunday, accusing it of plotting to overthrow its clerical leadership, in a chilly response to an overture by President Barack Obama for better cultural ties with Iran. 
Ayatollah Ali Khamenei did not outright reject Obama’s offer, saying Iran would keep an eye on Washington’s intentions. But the supreme leader said that so far, Washington’s offers of engagement with Tehran have been a deception. 
The exchange was a sign of how Obama’s hopes for dialogue with Iran have broken down amid Tehran’s rejection of Western demands over its nuclear program and its heavy crackdown on the opposition follow­ing disputed presidential elections last June. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Boy arrested for harassment 
WASHINGTON TOWNSHIP, N.J. — A 16­year-old boy who police said made an announcement at Walmart ordering all black people in the southern New Jersey store to leave was charged with harassment and bias intimidation, authorities said Saturday. 
The boy, whose name is not being released because he is a juvenile, went on the inter­com at Walmart’s Washington Township store Sunday evening and calmly announced: “Attention, Walmart customers: All black people, leave the store now,” police said. 
The teen was arrested Friday on charges of harassment and bias intimidation. Authorities said he was released to the cus­tody of his parents; they did not know whether he had a lawyer. 

Solar park to create energy 
LEMOORE, Calif. — Cash-strapped farmers in California’s agricultural heartland and environmentalists at odds over water rights and wildlife protections finally agree on something: that thousands of acres of cracked, salty farmland is the perfect site for a sprawling utility-scale solar farm. 
The 47 square-miles of land proposed for the Westlands Solar Park in remote Kings and Fresno counties is just one of dozens of unfinished solar projects in California, but renewable energy analysts say it is a rare one that enjoys the broad support of envi­ronmental groups, powerful agriculture interests and state government. 
Once completed, the first chunk of solar proposed for the site could generate enough power to energize up to one million homes. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Man dies after crash on runway 
LAPORTE, Ind. — A coroner says the body of a man likely lay on a runway at LaPorte Municipal Airport for hours after he was ejected from his car. 
LaPorte County Coroner John Sullivan said it was fortunate that no aircraft tried to land Sunday while the body lay on the runway. The airport is not staffed on weekends. 
The body of 49-year-old Douglas Justice of Union Mills was found about 130 feet from the car. 
Authorities said they believed the crash occurred hours before being reported. 


Advocates march in Washington 
Thousands rally for immigration reform hoping to get the attention of Congress 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — Frustrated with the lack of action to overhaul the country’s immigration sys­tem, thousands of demon­strators rallied on the National Mall and marched through the streets of the capital Sunday, waving American flags and holding homemade signs in English and Spanish. 
Supporters traveled from around the country in hopes the rally would re-energize Congress to take up the volatile issue. Some lawmakers oppose any attempt to help an estimat­ed 12 million illegal immi­grants become U.S. citizens while others insist on stronger border controls first. 
President Barack Obama, who promised to make overhauling the immigra­tion system a top priority in his first year, sought to reassure those at the rally with a video message pre­sented on giant screens at the National Mall. The president said he was com­mitted to working with Congress this year on a comprehensive bill to fix a “broken immigration sys­tem.” 
Obama said problems include families being torn Bettran arrived in Sens. Chuck Schumer, D-Congress was in session.” apart, employers gaming Washington on Sunday N.Y., and Lindsey Graham, “I think you’ll see a the system and police offi-morning after a 13-hour R-S.C., released an outline response in the following cers struggling to keep bus ride. Like many at the of a bill last week that calls weeks,” he said. communities safe. rally, he had a personal for illegal immigrants who People held signs with 
The president, whose connection to the issue. His want to get on the path to slogans such as, “You need comments were released as parents were once illegal legal status to admit they us as much as we need he worked to get last-immigrants, but were able broke the law by entering you,” and “No Human minute votes on a health to take advantage of an the U.S., pay fines and back Being is Illegal.” Many care overhaul, said he amnesty in the 1980s. taxes, and perform commu-waved American flags, and would do everything in his “Fortunately, they were nity service. They also a few also carried the ban-power to forge a bipartisan able to become citizens would be required to pass ners of their countries of consensus on immigration during the last amnesty but background checks and be origin. reform. I know many people that proficient in English before One group from Queens, 
Some demonstrators weren’t that lucky,” said working toward legal resi-N.Y., displayed a giant papi­were disappointed there the American-born Bettran, dency, required before er-mache family — a moth­hasn’t been more action a adding that his brother was becoming a citizen. er and two crying children. year into Obama’s term. never able to gain legal sta-Ben Jealous, president of The creation, meant to 
“I understand it may not tus and had to leave the the National Association for symbolize the way immi­all be his fault,” said U.S. the Advancement of gration problems have split Manuel Bettran, a 21-year-Lawmakers failed to Colored People and a up families, was the work old college student from agree in 2006 and 2007 speaker at the rally, said of teenagers in an after-Chicago. “I am frustrated. I when they last tried to the activists no doubt got schoolprogram, said really wish not just him, overhaul the immigration the attention of lawmakers Natalia Aristizabal, arts but everybody, would take system, and the political cli-by converging on the mall and media educator for the it more seriously.” mate is even tougher now. “on the one Sunday group. 


Obama works vote outside of public eye 
when that last tally had come in. maker. 
Associated Press 
The announcement of that plan The one big burst of Obama news 
WASHINGTON — No more fiery alone showed the White House was came about 4 p.m. by press release speeches, no trips to Capitol Hill, no sensing victory. from his staff. ventures outside the White House Yet two photos released by the Obama revealed he would issue an gates at all. White House showed the carefully executive order to make sure that the 
President Barack Obama, the most hand-picked images of a president in emerging health care legislation visible spokesman for health care a serious fight for votes until the end would uphold all federal funding reform, spent the final day of an on Sunday. restrictions on abortion. That step exhaustive lobbying campaign work-In one, Obama was on a cell phone had the enormously important effect ing from his house. talking to an unidentified lawmaker of locking in the votes of a bloc of 
On any other spring day, Obama from the office of his chief of staff, anti-abortion House Democrats. might have ventured out for baskeball Rahm Emanuel. The president was Overall, aides said the president or golf. surrounded by Emanuel and four spent his day bouncing between 
The first glimpse of him was not to other legislative and political advis-phone calls, updates from his advis­come until late at night, after the final ers. There wasn’t a smile in the room. ers, and drop-ins on his staff. The House vote on legislation to revamp The other photo showed Obama in workmanlike approach yielded the health insurance rules for millions of the Oval Office, sleeves rolled up, spotlight to Democratic House mem­people. The president was to make a working the phones again in conver-bers, as well as the Republican law-statement from the ornate East Room sation with another unnamed law-makers striving stop the legislation. 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, March 22, 2010 
Arabic 
continued from page 1 
cial opportunity to share Arabic culture with the rest of the University. 
“Students were able to enjoy song, dance, poetry and imagery that they wouldn’t other­wise likely get whether they 
“Students were able to
to experience at study Arabic Notre Dame,” enjoy song, dance, poetry or not,” he 
he said. “It’s and imagery that they said. “It show-
really a one-of-cased aspects 
wouldn’t otherwise likely 
a-kind event of the Arabic and has grown get to experience at culture that in performanc-Notre Dame.” people may es and popular-not know ity every year.” about or [to 
Joseph Dufour
Junior people] who Victoria Braga, vice president don’t study a member of Arabic Club Arabic, espe­
the Arabic Club, said the format of the event has grown stronger with each passing year. 
“Students attending the event hopefully learned more about Arabic Language and Culture,” she said. “This is the ultimate goal of the event, and we are happy that it seems the event has met its goal not only this year but in all of the past three years of its existence.” 
Bualuan said the inspiration for an event to share Middle Eastern culture came from stu­dents and from her own hus­band. 
“I started it two years ago with the idea of creating an opportuni­ty for Arabic major students to connect to Arabic history and 

ROTC 
continued from page 1 
speakers provided valuable per­sonal testimonies about some of the dangerous experiences they have had as Marines. 
“On Friday, First Sgt. William Bodette told a lot of personal, anecdotal stories that were both funny and informative on what it would be like to be in combat,” Rieger said, “I think he was one of the favorites because you can’t really teach about war unless you’ve been in it. He gave the audience a real life, personal account.” 
A panel titled “Addressing the Threat of Non-State Actors Within and Across State Boundaries: Our Rights and Duties” took place Saturday morning, and ROTC stu­dents could ask four panelists questions about becoming junior officers. 
Rieger said Saturday’s later events were the most significant for her. 
“The culminating and biggest event of the weekend was dinner on Saturday night. We all went to the Stadium press box for dinner. Lt. Gen. Joseph Dunford Jr., one of the most respected officers in the Marine Corps, spoke at din­ner,” Rieger said. “It was interest­ing to hear his thoughts on lead­ership, ethics and where our mili­tary is headed.” 
Cassani said bringing Dunford to campus was not easy. 
culture through music and arts,” she said. “Also, my husband pro­duced several international festi­vals over 15 years ago at Notre Dame as a student, and I knew that his experience would be very useful.” 
Dufour said the event was a success because it blended per­formance with education. 
“Everyone there seemed to 
really enjoy 
the night 
cially since the 
readings and song in Arabic all had English translations on an accompanying slideshow to the event.” 
Bualuan echoed Dufour’s senti­ment, noting that attendance at the event was very strong, with Jordan Auditorium at standing room only capacity. She said over 350 students attended, and their response was positive. 
“They were very excited, and the event has grown each year. I’ve already received many emails from students who were in the audience saying that they want to be part of the show next year,” she said. 
Contact Nora Kenney at hkenney@nd.edu 
“It was really difficult contact­ing such a high-ranking officer as a midshipmen in order to ask him to speak,” Cassani said. “We real­ly were so honored to have him, a three-star general, as our final speaker.” 
Cassani also said having a young former Marine at the event was a valuable experience for attendees. 
“In addition to the lieutenant general being a highlight, Mr. Jacob Cusack, a 2004 ND grad and former Marine, was another favorite,” she said. “He was really relatable, being so close to our age, and focused on what junior officers will be experiencing once commissioned and deployed.” 
Cusack is now out of the Marines and attends Harvard Business School. 
Cassani said she has been plan­ning the event since August with a committee of ROTC sophomores and juniors. 
“I think the best aspect of NLW is that it is put together complete­ly by students. It is an endeavor put on by juniors and sopho­mores in college,” Rieger said. “Arianna deserves so much credit for the work she put into the event.” 
Rieger said the weekend’s events were useful in educating the University as a whole about the ROTC program. 
“We always get a lot of ques­tions about all the people in uni­form, so I think it is interesting for students outside of ROTC to know why there are people here 


DACMS 
continued from page 1 
modeling,” Crawford said. “By creating a statistics department, we’re expanding on the applied mathematics and computation already going on.” 
Creating DACMS will not sig­nificantly affect the existing Department of Mathematics, Crawford said. 
“Both departments will be very well resourced,” he said. 
According to Crawford, the new department will have an interdisciplinary research and teaching focus. 
“Since statistics is so impor­tant in all disciplines, as the department starts to grow, the new department will cooperate with other departments,” he said. 
He cited offering statistics courses that are geared to social science, engineering and biology majors as areas in which the new department will affect undergraduates in other disci­plines. 
Crawford said he expects DACMS to remain a relatively small department but said it will have a high number of fac­ulty members who have joint or concurrent appointments in other departments. 
The planned size of the new department is consistent with statistics departments at other universities, Crawford said. 
“[Statistics departments] tend to be very collaborative and do more interdisciplinary work,” he said. “[DACMS] will work 
in uniform learning about Notre Dame, taking over South Dining Hall and flooding DeBartolo,” Rieger said. “NLW is not only good for our ROTC unit, but also good for the school.” 
Contact Carly Landon at clandon1@nd.edu 
with other departments and col­leges to hire jointly with them.” 
Graduate students in the new department will have a unique role that is consistent will the department’s interdisciplinary mission. Instead of only serving as teaching assistants, graduate students will also serve as col­laborative assistants (CAs). 
CAs will be available to assist faculty members and graduate students from other depart­ments and colleges with the sta­tistical elements of their research. 
“This will stimulate the cross-disciplinary research that’s going on at Notre Dame,” Crawford said. “It’s very exciting for [the College of] Science to offer this to the other colleges on campus.” 
The new department will sponsor its own major in applied and computational mathematics and statistics. Students who graduate with an undergraduate degree from DACMS will have graduate school options in diverse fields, including econom­ics, sociology, psychology, engi­neering and science, Crawford said. 
Alumni of the program will also have options in the private sector. 
“It’s a very applied degree, so industry is looking for applied mathematicians and statisti­cians, as are hospitals,” Crawford said. “Most companies are looking for people with com­putational savvy.” 
Crawford said creating the new department does not affect the College of Science’s commit­ment to the Department of Mathematics. 
“The investment is going into the new department and the existing mathematics depart­ment,” he said. “It’s very impor­tant that both departments grow together. 
“We have an excellent mathe­matics department here.” 

Contact John Tierney at jtierne1@nd.edu 



The Observer 




Business
Monday, March 22, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

IN BRIEF 
Germany refuses aid to Greece 
BERLIN — Rebuffing EU officials in Brussels, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said Sunday that Greece does not need any finan­cial help and that EU leaders should not make aid an issue at their summit in Brussels this week. 
The European Commission had urged Germany and other eurozone governments to put up a package of government-to-govern­ment loans to ease Greece’s financial plight and end weeks of financial turmoil. 
The chancellor warned against discussions of possible EU bailout plans at the Thursday summit. 
Germany — Europe’s biggest economy — has been reluctant to pledge direct financial aid because German public opinion takes a dim view of the shoddy statistics-keeping that has long hidden the true size of Greek deficits. 
On Thursday, Greece warned it would be forced to turn to the IMF for help — which would be an embarrassment for the single currency bloc — if the EU fails to extend any concrete support package. 
Greece’s mounting debts hit confidence in the euro and jolted world markets. 

Investors accept bad numbers 
NEW YORK — The housing market is still in bad shape, but investors don’t seem to mind. 
While this week brings reports on sales of new and existing homes in February, there are no signs of heightened anxiety in the stock market. That’s a big change from one and two years ago, when these numbers were often horrific enough to send investors running. In recent months, traders have shrugged off some ugly figures. The reason: Steadying home prices are good enough for now. 
Even tentative stability is welcome news after price drops of more than 50 percent in some markets. The slide in prices pounded consumers whose home is often their single biggest investment. The number of foreclo­sures is still going up, but they are happening at a slower pace. That’s allowing the real estate market to absorb the added supply without sending prices spiraling again. 
Many investors think that housing won’t cause more huge problems for the economy if prices hold. 


Toyota faces more legal trouble 
Automaker’s shareholders sue over fallen stock price, claim company misled them 
Associated Press 
MIAMI — Toyota share­holders incensed over a sudden drop in the Japanese automaker’s stock price are heading to court with lawsuits claim­ing company executives deliberately misled investors and the public about the depth of acceler­ator problems in millions of its vehicles. 
At least three proposed class-action lawsuits filed by Toyota investors say the company gave false initial assurances that the sudden acceleration problem was a simple matter of floor mats trapping gas pedals, helping prop up the stock price. 
The shareholder cases are part of an avalanche of potentially costly lawsuits against Toyota Motor Corp. over the acceleration issue, including those filed by crash victims and their families and those brought by Toyota owners contend­ing their vehicles are worth far less because of the recalls. 
The investor lawsuits say Toyota spread misleading information through press releases, conference calls with stock analysts and TV interviews to assure stock­holders and the public that the accelerator problem was easily fixed or might be the driver’s fault. 
Instead, the lawsuits con­tend, top Toyota executives have known for nearly a decade that faulty elec­tronic throttle controls caused vehicles to some­times careen wildly out of control but covered it up to protect the company’s rep­utation for safety — and its stock price. The company has not issued any recalls involving flaws in the elec­tronic throttles and has repeatedly denied they are the problem. 
U.S-listed shares rose from just over $75 on Oct. 5, the day of the floor mat recall, to above $90 on Jan. 21, when Toyota announced another recall — over gas pedals it says can stick in certain condi­tions. 

After that, the stock price fell, dropping 16 percent as of early March. Shares have since rebounded somewhat, closing Thursday on the New York Stock Exchange at $79.34, but some investors say the recovery did not prevent them from losing potential­ly millions of dollars as the stock was dropping. 
Since the sticky pedal recall in late January, Toyota’s total U.S. market capitalization has fallen 13 percent to $135.87 billion. In trading on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, Toyota shares also have lost near­ly 17 percent of their value since Jan. 21. That’s wiped out about 2.27 trillion yen ($25.1 billion) of the com­pany’s market capitaliza­tion there. 
Toyota declined comment because the cases are pending in court. The com­pany has repeatedly denied its electronic throttle con­trols are to blame for sud­den acceleration. 
In the lawsuits, the shareholders are asking a judge to certify a “class” of plaintiffs that would repre­sent all Toyota sharehold­ers in the U.S. who held company stock on specific dates. If Toyota is found liable, damages could easi­ly run into the hundreds of millions or even billions of dollars. 
The shareholder lawsuits are pending in federal court in California, the location of Toyota’s North American headquarters. 
In one of the lawsuits, Toyota stockholder Harry Stackhouse of Richboro, Pa., contends the company “misled investors by failing to disclose that there was a major design defect in Toyota’s acceleration sys­tem, which could cause unintended acceleration.” 
“This drop removed the inflation from Toyota’s securities prices, causing real economic loss to investors who had pur­chased securities,” said Stackhouse, who said he bought 40 shares in 2009 just as the acceleration problems became known. 
A hearing is scheduled next week in San Diego on whether to consolidate the dozens of Toyota owners’ class-action lawsuits. 

MSU program targets counterfeiting 
Associated Press 
EAST LANSING, Mich. — The fight against fake products has found a home at Michigan State University with the launch of the Anti-Counterfeiting and Product Protection Program. 
“The FBI has called (it) ‘the crime of the 21st century,’” univer­sity spokesman Andy Henion wrote on the school’s Web site. “The counterfeiting of products from pharmaceuticals to food additives to auto parts accounts for hun­dreds of billions of dollars in glob­al trade.” 
Michigan State’s program is designed to fill what Henion said is a need for research on the world­wide phenomenon and “evidence­based strategies” to fight it. 
Counterfeiting is more than an economic crime against the com­panies whose goods are faked, the university said. The damage extends to health, the environment and national security, it said. 
“We’re blending the different sci­ences and bringing something unique to the table here,” said the program’s director, criminal jus­tice associate professor Jeremy Wilson. “Our goal is to serve as an international hub for anti-counter­feiting.” 
Wilson said the program is a response to requests from busi­nesses for help. He said the inter­disciplinary program encompasses criminal justice, food safety, inter­national business, engineering, public health and communications. 
One of its first projects was to create a database of U.S. product counterfeiting cases from 2000 on, Wilson said in a statement. 
Another project includes devel­opment of a DNA marker embed­ded in textiles that could be used to determine the authenticity of items such as purses and clothing. 
Major focuses of the program include counterfeiting of pharma­ceuticals in Africa and food addi­tives in China. 
“Product counterfeiting is a risk to ... exploited workers and it’s a risk to the consumer,” said pro­gram associate director John Spink. “This is clearly not a victim-less crime.” 
The Observer 


Viewpoint 
page 8 Monday, March 22, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 pcoveney@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News Viewpoint 
Katie Peralta Lianna Kristen Durbin Brauweiler Emily Schrank Sports 
Graphics Meaghan Veselik 
Mary Cecilia Megan Finneran 
Mitsch Matthew Robison 
Scene 
Jordan Gamble Adriana Pratt 



Interconnectedness at the Indiana Dunes 
As April warmly approaches, I am winding up my year-long senior thesis project on the preservation of the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore. Now that I’m nearing completion, I realize that most of what I’ve learned is in the value of compli­cating my outlook on the world, of forcing myself to see things as more than just black or white, posi­tive or negative. When we stop look-Jackie ing for a bad guy 

Mirandola 
and realize that 
Mullen
“bad guys” exist in all of us, the real Freckled lesson becomes Thoughts interconnectivity and even attacking the bad guy within. 
As a history major, most of my research has been archival. About once a month, I drive to Gary, Ind., to peruse the Calumet Regional Archives, the best archive around of recent dunes history and steel in northwest Indiana. 
Oh, the faces I get. I wish I could share them in this medium, but alas you will have to imagine them yourself. 
“Gary? Got your bullet-proof windows ready?” 
“Try not to breathe the air.” 
“You couldn’t think of a better place to study environmental history?” 
Well the truth is, yes, I can think of many places much more picturesque than Gary (although I appreciate the concern if you are one of the worried friends quoted above). But in ignoring the industry, pollution and poverty that proliferate in Gary, we miss the full narrative not just of preservation move­ments, but of our society as a fully interconnected body. 
Preserved land in the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore covers 20 miles of shoreline from Gary (home to what was 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
once U.S. Steel’s largest integrated steel plant worldwide) to Michigan City, Ind. (home to the smokestacks of the Michigan City Generating Station). Congress officially preserved this unlikely candidate for a National Lakeshore in 1966, during the simulta­neous construction of a public port, two steel mills and a coal-generated power plant within the Lakeshore’s outer boundaries. 
The case of the dunes appears at first glance as no escape from industry. The National Park Service official map for Indiana Dunes has organic greens, browns and tans that connote park­land, while dull grays (bereft of labels) signify industry. This color choice attempts to convince the visitor that the dunes are the serene retreat from mankind after which National Park Service patrons pine, yet no visitor could drive to the dunes from any direction without passing evidence of man-made power and filth. 
And yet, the value of the dunes remains inside of this difficult attempt to mask the sullied as pristine. While hiking through most sections of the park, the marsh or dunes feel expan­sive and pure, as if they could continue for miles. When the mills are out of sight, the pristine nature in some form exists — the dunes are the seventh-most bio-diverse park in the National Park system, even in the Rustbelt of America (or “Cancer Alley,” I once heard the area from Chicago to South Bend called). 
Treating the industry as evil and the park as good, however, misses the mark of a broader understanding of the connectedness of American structures. Most visitors to the National Lakeshore come either from Chicago or northwest Indiana — the two places requiring power that made building the steel mills and generating plants necessary in the first place. Our daily lives and the city of Chicago’s buildings them­selves would be radically different without the industry in northwest Indiana. 
Additionally, the “evil industry” helped advocates of the dunes establish the patchwork collection of natural lands in northwest Indiana as a National Lakeshore. The “bad guy” of the steel mills proved villainous enough for Congress to okay a Lakeshore out of sympathy for the residents who would have to live adjacent to this industry in the future. 
Even the mobile sign of industry in the park, the railroad, also acts as a way to bring visitors to the dunes on the South Shore rail line. Nearby pollu­tion-hazard Chicago also makes the population big enough for the annual visitation of the park to rival that of Yellowstone. The lines between the evil of filth, industry and civilization — of which Gary and Michigan City so pro­fanely remind us — blur with the good of preservation, nature and untainted­ness that the Indiana Dunes National Lakeshore symbolize. 
Good and evil only exists in stories — and even then, it can be problematic (cue Darth Vader music). The Rustbelt of America in which we live might dis­gust us with its industrial grime, but it also has provided a catalyst for the establishment of some of the most unique lands in our nation. Exploring the connected nature of good and evil can help us work within structures; we can see the world in shifting hues of green and brown instead of character­izing all in the unforgiving decisiveness of black and white. 
Jackie Mirandola Mullen is a senior history and German major. You can contact her at jmirando@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
How is your NCAA Tournament bracket doing? 
Northern Iowa killed it I'm hanging in there Very well — I know how to pick 'em I might as well throw it away I didn't fill out a bracket 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Treat the other man's faith gently;it is all he has to believe with. His mind was created for his own thoughts, not yours or mine.” 
Henry S. Haskins
U.S. writer 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Monday, March 22, 2010 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Wounded Warrior Project 
We must increase responsiveness to the needs of our wounded veterans. The difficulties involved in caring for those who have experienced psychological and physical harm during combat are well-documented. The Wounded Warrior Project is a nation-wide organization that honors and empowers military personnel who were severely injured while serving our country. More than 500,000 troops have been wounded in recent conflicts, many of them suffering traumatic brain injuries, amputations, severe burns and post-traumatic stress disorder. The Wounded Warrior Project’s goal is to ensure that this is the most successful, well-adjusted gen­eration of wounded soldiers in our nation’s history. 
WWP encompasses numerous programs, from legislative advoca­cy to provision of counseling services to help in occupational transi­tion to the civilian sector. There are many local veterans in our area who benefit from the WWP. 
I would like to invite and encourage the student body, faculty, staff and community to participate in the March Madness 10K this Saturday, March 27 at 9:30 a.m. The community service clubs of the Tri-Military ROTC units here at Notre Dame are sponsoring this race, with all proceeds going to the Wounded Warrior Project. Registration is $15 and includes a t-shirt, refreshments after the race and a chance to win a Chipotle gift card. Registration is avail­able on race day, as well as online at http://www.nd.edu/~trident/ 
Come. We owe it to our wounded warriors. 
Geralyn Janke 
junior Pasquerilla West Hall March 18 


Music program left in capable hands 
In the past weeks, we have read many letters in the Viewpoint sec­tion about Gail Walton and her legacy. Through reading those testi­monies, we are reminded that none who knew her can ever forget the impact she had on their lives. As Holy Week approaches, it is difficult to imagine those sacred days without Gail Walton. But like any good teacher, Gail didn’t do it all on her own; she surrounded herself with talented men and women who shared in her mission of performing sacred music worthy of our faith and our community. Of these, none was more trusted by Gail than Dr. Andrew McShane, the Basilica’s Assistant Director of Music. For nearly 20 years, Gail and Andy worked side-by-side at Campus Ministry, and to know Gail was to understand her trust in and reliance on Andy and his professional abilities. 
Certainly her trust alone would be reason enough for us to have full faith in her friend and colleague, but those of us who have had the privilege to sing in the Liturgical Choir, the Women’s Liturgical Choir or the Basilica Schola have more reason than Gail’s trust alone: We’ve seen him at work. Through innumerable weddings, daily masses and weekend liturgies, we’ve witnessed his dedication to sacred music. Andrew McShane has worked tirelessly alongside Gail and Notre Dame’s other talented choral directors at our University’s occasions for celebration: Junior Parents’ Weekends, Baccalaureate Masses, Alumni Weekends, openings of school years and countless others. He also has helped lead us in musical prayer during times of loss and mourning, including Pope John Paul II’s death, the aftermath of Sept. 11 and the funerals of Father Joyce and other beloved members of the Notre Dame family. 
Andy is an example of strength to us. In Gail’s sickness, he shoul­dered the bulk of her responsibilities while caring for the emotional well-being of his choir — a feat that demonstrated his exceptional leadership. While supporting his best friend through a life-threatening illness, he managed to maintain the same standard of musical excel­lence that he learned from Gail. Indeed, it was Andy who directed the music for Gail’s own funeral, an occasion none present will ever forget. Even if we had only that one sad instance as an example, we would know that though we mourn the loss of Gail, we needn’t mourn music at the Basilica. It will never be the same without her, but knowing that Gail’s work will pass into the hands of her dear friend and colleague, we feel confident that Andy’s unique direction and leadership will con­tinue Gail’s work of raising our hearts and minds to God. And knowing him ourselves, we confidently and eagerly look forward to the contin­ued development of the music at the Basilica of the Sacred heart in the care of a great musician, dedicated professional, gifted teacher, charis­matic leader and excellent friend, Dr. Andrew McShane. 
Emily Pike 
alumna Class of 2007 
Brendan Hanehan 
alumnus Class of 2007 
Peter Mitchell 
alumnus Class of 2006 March 19 
COLLEGE NEWS NETWORK 


Who are the ‘Mythica’? 
By now, those of you who pay attention to these kinds of things (or, at the very least, read The Minnesota Daily’s Opinion section on a regu­lar basis) are probably familiar with Chatroulette, the recent Web site fad that lets you have video conversa­tions with random people. Sam Blake Chatroulette is the culmina­tion of an important pro-The Minnesota gression in the way that Daily people interact on the Internet, as it is one of the few Web sites that allow you to interact with real people. Let me extrapolate somewhat on this notion of “real people.” 
The Internet is a massive collaboration of the individual efforts of many people, blah, blah, blah, you’ve heard this all before. But in our usual human tendency to simplify complicated systems into nice, unitary objects, we often for­get that the Internet, as we know it (that is, as a social construct rather than a technical one), is made entirely out of the output of human endeavor. These people — precious, unique snowflakes though they may be — get lost in the cacophony of constant information the Internet provides. 
So, let us ask ourselves: Do real people exist on the Internet? This seems like a stupid ques­tion for the very convenient reason that it is one. Of course real people exist on the Internet; after all, nothing on the Internet would exist were that not the case. 
So let’s be a little more precise. When interact­ing with people, however indirectly, by using the Internet, are we actually interacting with peo­ple? Or are we just consuming some information that some person at one time created? If the lat­ter is the case, then we are not, in fact, interact­ing with “people” in the traditional social sense of the word, but we are instead just manipulat­ing the same data stream. 
There is a classic problem in the field of semantics of concepts that have no word associ­ated with them. Incidentally, the notion of a con­cept without a word, insofar as I can tell, does not have a word to denote it. This means that that notion is “autological” — describes itself — or at least it would be if it had a name, which it doesn’t, and if it had a name it would no longer be autological, which makes it an instance of the Grelling-Nelson paradox. Isn’t semantics fun? 
The solution, of course, is making up new words as they are needed. For our purposes, we will refer to our data-generating pseudo-people as the Mythica. As with classical myth, we use the concept of the Mythica as a sort of origin story explaining the people who we infer to exist from the artifacts we see. The Mythica are peo­ple in the same way that the Sumerians were people: We have convincing records of their existence, but given that we have never interact­ed with them, it’s impossible for us to have any sort of social relationship with them. 
Practically speaking, then, who are the Mythica? This isn’t terribly obvious. Which peo­ple online are actually “people” (perceptually speaking), and which of them are just the rem­nants of data? If you wanted to be especially technical, all online interactions are strictly data, but let’s try to come up with a reasonable definition. To do this, let’s look at how the Internet has evolved over time. 
In the good old days, the Internet was predom­inantly an interaction-based medium, populated by bulletin boards, newsgroups and chat rooms. These kinds of environments often fostered com­munities where people were acquainted with one another; people had reputations and inter­acted more or less as equals. But as the Internet grew in popularity, there was a shift, which is still evident today, towards content-based media. Blogs replaced bulletin boards, Wikipedia and news aggregators replaced newsgroups, and YouTube replaced chat rooms. These new media still have “communities” in a sense, but instead of being defined by established relationships between members, they are usually defined by pervasive cultural norms, or memes. Some peo­ple may have status, but generally, the commu­nity is too large to have a coherent basis of rela­tionships, and so communication by meme becomes a necessity. 
However, as social media become the norm, some new systems are beginning to return to the interaction model. Chatroulette is an excellent example; there are no kings on Chatroulette. There are no memes that define that culture (unless you count masturbation). Chatroulette is a technology that harkens back to the old Internet, where people talked to people instead of just digesting content. The people you see on Chatroulette are “real people;” you may not have a pre-existing social relationship with them, but you do interact on a personal, rather than cultural, level. 
So let us once again address the question: Who are the Mythica? They are everyone who has contributed in some way towards your personal experience using the Internet but that you don’t actually know in any meaningful way. The Mythica is not an actual entity; rather, it is a psy­chological defense mechanism. Our brains are simply not capable of processing the complexity of the social structure that the Internet actually represents, so we simplify until we reach a model that we can handle. The Mythica as we understand it is that intellectual reduction: mil­lions and millions of people, all reduced into a nice, thick syrup, perfect for serving on ice cream or over poires belle Hélène. But if you don’t like pears (though I can’t understand why that would be the case), you might consider adopting habits of Internet use that involve real people and not the ones that don’t actually exist. 
This column first appeared in the March 10 edition of The Minnesota Daily, the daily publication serving the University of Minnesota. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 

The Observer 


Scene
page 10 Monday, March 22, 2010 


By ANKUR CHAWLA 
Scene Writer 
This movie had all the pieces for a decent, or possibly really good movie: thought-provoking social commentary, high-tempo action sequences and solid actors like Jude Whitaker However, a sloppy story line and a horren­dous, “surprise” tives ending made this movie as much a waste of two hours as standing in line at Reckers after parietals. If you were planning on seeing “Repo Men,” I’d sug­gest saving the $7.50 and being sorely disap­pointed. 
The story is set in the future, where The Union is corporation selling arti­ficial organs to the sick. The corporation corners the sick into buying these at an unreasonably high price, getting loans with “19 percent APR.” A select group of The Union are des­ignated “Repo Men” who are in charge of seizing the organs from those who defaulted on their loan. The movie shows these men as brutally knocking out their “jobs,” slicing them open and reclaiming the organs while letting the patient bleed to death. 

Jude Law’s character, Remy, is one of these Repo Men, but ends up needing an artificial heart. When he can’t pay for the heart, he becomes another client who is past due. Through this experience, Remy doubts and questions his identity and the legitimacy of The Union, and develops a love interest with a fellow past-due woman, Beth (Alice Braga), evading the Repo Men. 
Eventually, Remy’s good friend Jake (Forest Whitaker) must hunt down Remy and seize the artificial heart. 
Remy and Beth go on a Mission­Impossible-like venture to The 
Union’s corporate building, fighting security guards with knives, axes and hammers. Remy is dressed full-on in Brad Pitt’s “Fight Club” attire, knock­ing out at least a dozen people guard­ing the door to The Union’s database. After destroying the database, the movie cuts to Remy, Beth and Jake relaxing on the beach. Here’s when the movie goes from okay to awful — though it wouldn’t be wise to stay through the end, anyway. 
Jude Law’s acting in this movie was about as believable as presidential campaign promises, as he goes from heartless and cold killer straight to artsy writer, being crushed by his wife leaving him to fall for a woman he meets in a dump (literally). Likewise, Beth’s character lacks depth and dynamic. 
The biggest bright spot of the movie is when a nine-year old girl performs surgery and is absolutely adorable in doing so. Also, Forest Whitaker pro­vides a great portrayal of his character and convincingly progresses from believing “a job’s a job” to trying to 
protect and provide for his friend. 
However, these posi­are overwhelm-shad­owed by the 
horren­dous con­clusion. Not only was it com-pl etely unneces­sary, but it also fails to foll ow the pro­gression of the movie. 


The Observer 


Scene
Monday, March 22, 2010 page 11 


By STEPHANIE DePREZ 
Scene Writer 
Have you ever been in a conversation with someone who’s name-dropped a band and you’ve nodded emphatically, agreeing that said band is so good/cool/innovative, only to completely forget the name the minute you walk away? 
Fear no more, because here is a list of some of the most noteworthy music out there today, at least in the category of slightly-more-important. Did I unfor­givably ignore your favorite? E-mail me and maybe I’ll include it in the next list. 
Damien Rice 
If you have never heard of this guy, drop the paper and go YouTube him right now. He’s probably the most swoon-worthy cult indie artist of our time, and most people who have heard him swear to have a deep, personal relationship with him. Epic folk songs indeed. 
Tracks to tap: “The Blower’s Daughter,” “9 Crimes,” “Cannonball” 
Alexi Murdoch 
This man is the Damien Rice of Scotland. Other than the ubiquitous teen-TV­series-exploited “Orange Sky,” Murdoch’s music was featured heavily in the movie “Away We Go.” His grainy bari­tone lends itself per­fectly to the wistful but hopeful lyrics that politely tug at the heart. 
Tracks to tap: “Orange Sky,” “Breathe,” “Song For You” 
Amos Lee 
Lee is far more soul than folk but has the sensibility to be delicate with his songs. Lee’s music doesn’t favor love stories of the wistful but is heavy on the social justice — which he does well. His music gracefully marries acoustic and plugged-in. It’s jam-wor­thy in the way that makes you want to lean back and drink a cold iced-tea. 
Tracks to tap: “Street Corner Preacher,” “Shout Out Loud,” “Supply and Demand” 
The Bird and the Bee 
This electronic pop duo had minor success with their “Grey’s Anatomy” soundtrack song, “Again and Again.” Inara George’s light but pointed voice makes all of her lyrics seem slightly tongue-in-cheek. But that doesn’t detract from this band’s pop flavor that balances Los Angeles sunshine with New York savvy. 
Tracks to tap: “Again and Again,” “Love Letter to Japan,” “F*cking Boyfriend” 
Frightened Rabbit 
This indie band is from Scotland and belts out lyrics that beg to be lapped up. Slightly quirky but always positive, these guys just released a new album, solidifying their position in the indie-cult arena. And they’re just a bit more accessible than, say, the Shins, which is a plus. 
Tracks to tap: “Keep Yourself Warm,” “Old Old Fashioned,” “Swim Until You Can’t See Land” 
The Gabe Dixon Band 
Piano rock with a folk-kick that ends up being the most delicious trio band experience this side of Nashville. The fact that most of their music is so piano-driven means that even when it’s heavy, it’s not overwhelming. They deliver feel-good music with an inven­tive take on love and life. Note: this band will make you curse your parents 
for letting you drop 
piano lessons in the 
fifth grade. 
Tracks to tap: “Find My Way,” “All Will Be Well,” “Five More Hours” 
Josh Ritter 
(pictured) 
A man of bla­tant Americana and the Irish — the nationality, not Notre Dame 
— love him. But we should, because he’s unafraid to bounce back and forth between truly folk and lyrically hip. Ritter seems to have cornered (or created) the market for indie­country-folk, and many of his songs 
are quite radio-worthy. 
Tracks to tap: “Snow is Gone,” “Good Man,” “The Temptation 
of Adam” 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 
Jose Gonzalez 
A man and his guitar, and that is all you need. His circular strumming pat­terns become hypnotic, and on them Gonzalez layers some of the most poignant poetry of the New Folk move­ment. He can either be tempered home­work tunes or the backdrop of a soul-searching conversation. 
Tracks to tap: “Heartbeats,” “Teardrop,” “Crosses” 
page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Monday, March 22, 2010 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Michigan State beats Maryland at buzzer 
Dale’s 26 points help No. 12 Cornell upset No. 4 Wisconsin to become frst Ivy League team to Sweet 16 in 30 years 
Vasquez led the fourth-seeded way,” he said. 
Associated Press 
Terrapins (24-9) with 26 points. 
SPOKANE, Wash. — Korie He sparked their late comeback Cornell 87, Wisconsin 69 Lucious hit a 3-pointer at the by scoring nine of Maryland’s Cornell players jumped up and buzzer to cap a frenetic finish and final 11 points in the last two down near midcourt, exchanging give injury-depleted Michigan minutes. chest-bumps and high-fives, then State an 85-83 victory over After his winning shot, Lucious ran toward their fans. Maryland on Sunday in the sec-backpedaled down the court and And stood around. ond round of the NCAA tourna-the entire Michigan State team — Forgive those Ivy League guys ment. minus Lucas — dogpiled on him for not knowing how to celebrate. 
After star guard Kalin Lucas under the Maryland basket. Even After all, they’ve never experi­went down with a leg injury, the the mascot got into the act. enced anything like this before. Spartans blew a 16-point lead in Lucious, a sophomore, matched Then again, maybe they’re wait-the second half. Greivis Vasquez’s his season high with 13 points. ing for something bigger and bet-basket put Maryland ahead 83-82 “I told our team when we were ter. with 6 seconds left, but Michigan up four, up six, whatever it was, Either way, the Big Red made a State inbounded immediately and we were going to win this game big statement on college basket-pushed up the floor. and it’s going to be one of the ball’s biggest stage. They might 
The ball went to Lucious, greatest wins in the history of have something for Big Blue! Lucas’ replacement, at the top of Michigan State,” Izzo said. Louis Dale scored 26 points, the key and he drained a 3 just in Lucious’ shot capped a wild fin-Ryan Wittman added 24 and No. time, setting off a wild celebration ish to a game that the Spartans 12 seed Cornell upset the fourth-as jubilant Spartans players appeared to have in hand. With seeded Badgers on Sunday, streamed off the bench. 12 minutes to go, they were up by becoming the first Ivy League 
“I had an open look. Time was 16. school in more than 30 years to running down. I just shot it and it The drama started when advance to the round of 16. went in,” Lucious said. Summers went out with his “You can’t sleep on us,” Dale 
No. 5 seed Michigan State fourth foul with 6:19 left and MSU said. advanced to play ninth-seeded holding a 74-64 lead. A 3-pointer Nope, just ask the Badgers and Northern Iowa on Friday in the by Eric Hayes and a layup by Temple. Midwest Regional semifinals in St. Adrian Bowie pulled Maryland The Big Red (29-4) will play Louis. The Panthers pulled off the within 78-71 with 3:59 left. top-seeded Kentucky in the East most stunning upset of the tour-Maryland missed on its next pos-Regional semifinal Thursday in nament Saturday, beating top-session, and the Spartans worked Syracuse, N.Y., about an hour seeded Kansas 69-67. time off the clock before Lucious from Cornell’s campus. It could be 
If the Spartans are going to go scored for an 80-71 lead with a tough ticket, though, since any further, however, they’ll prob-2:05 to go. Kentucky’s basketball-crazed fans ably have to do it without their Vasquez scored quickly on the got a head start when their team floor leader. other end and sank the foul shot advanced Saturday. 
Moments after his team’s to make it 80-74. “Maybe all the Syracuse fans thrilling victory, Michigan State Then, Maryland’s press paid off. bought tickets and can help us coach Tom Izzo revealed sobering Vasquez, the ACC player of the out,” said Cornell coach Steve news about Lucas, saying the jun-year, stole an inbounds pass and Donahue, whose team played ior guard likely has a torn Sean Mosley made a layup to close games on the road this sea-Achilles' tendon. That would make it 80-76. The Terrapins’ son against fellow No. 1 seeds make it almost impossible for him Cliff Tucker stole the ball on the Kansas and Syracuse. Nankivil said. we could go a little farther.” to play in the round of 16 — or next possession and Vasquez hit a Cornell wasted little time taking Jon Leuer led the Badgers with Cornell could go a long way 
beyond. 3 from the left corner to cut it to care of its end. 23 points, including the team’s with its senior-laden team filled “That poor kid, he was devas-80-79 with 1:19 left. The Big Red controlled things first 12. Jason Bohannon added with castoffs and misfits. tated,” Izzo said. “It’s a shame for Tucker stole the ball again and from the opening tip, picking 18, Ryan Evans chipped in 11 and Wittman, the star guard whose 
him. But it’s part of athletics and Vasquez made a runner over apart Wisconsin’s vaunted Trevon Hughes finished with 10. father coached the NBA’s we’re just going to have to move Delvon Roe to give Maryland an defense the same way they did But Wisconsin’s problem was Minnesota Timberwolves but on.” 81-80 lead with 31 seconds left, Temple in the opening round. defense. couldn’t get his son a spot on the 
Izzo added that the diagnosis its first since the opening min-Cornell had a 12-point lead Cornell shot 61 percent from Gophers’ roster, ended up making was not definite because Lucas utes. early, a 20-point lead late and the field, 53 percent from 3-point 10 of 15 shots. 
had yet to have an X-ray on MRI, Draymond Green scored with very few moments of concern in range and dominated every Dale, the dynamic point guard “but the prognosis is 85 percent 20 seconds remaining to put the between. The lopsided affair aspect of the matchup. Anyone who grew up in Birmingham, of that.” Spartans up by one. But Vasquez should make for some interesting believe the Big Red were seeded Ala., but got very few scholarship 
A two-time all-Big Ten selec-scored again, setting up the conversation this week at the correctly now? offers, connected on 10 of 17 tion, Lucas got hurt with 2:28 thrilling final sequence. “Dog Pound,” the nickname given “We want to take this ride as shots. remaining in the first half and did Lucas began hopping on one leg to the three-story, off-campus long as we can because after this Foote, the 7-footer who once 
not return. He came back to the and keeping his left foot off the house that 13 players and a team it’s just nothing but babies and weighed 195 pounds and was bench with 12½ minutes to play ground after making a runner manager call home. memories,” Dale said. recruited only by Division III 
wearing a hooded sweat shirt and and landing awkwardly on his left “We’re definitely going to enjoy Foote had 12 points and seven schools until his mother, a nurse, sweat pants, with a walking boot leg near the baseline with 2:28 this one,” center Jeff Foote said. rebounds. Chris Wroblewski met Cornell coaches in an emer­on his left foot and ankle. remaining in the first half. As play “But we’re not done yet.” added 12 points, and Jon Jaques gency room, was perfect from the Lucas scored a career-high 25 continued at the other end, he Cornell became the lowest seed finished with nine before fouling field. He also clamped down on 
points in Michigan State’s first-hopped down court on his right to advance to the round of 16 in out. Leuer in the second half. round victory over New Mexico leg while wincing in pain. He this year’s tournament and the Cornell couldn’t miss to start “We have a bunch of guys with State. tried to defend the ball before first Ivy League team to get that this one. The Big Red made their something to prove,” Dale said. 
Durrell Summers had 26 points officials gave him an injury time-far since Penn 31 years ago. first five shots. Wittman hit con-Not anymore. in this one for the Spartans (26-out. Wisconsin (24-9), meanwhile, secutive jumpers to set the tone. A win against the Wildcats, 8), who also played without start-The junior then hopped to his failed to get past the opening Cornell led 16-4 with a little more though, might give Cornell reason 
ing guard Chris Allen (foot) for bench. After a trainer looked at weekend for the fourth time in than 5 minutes gone and never to really celebrate. most of the game. Summers his lower left leg for a moment, five years. looked back. “We’ve played teams like responded with by far his best Lucas hobbled into a tunnel that “The momentum and confi-“It’s always tough to end your Kentucky before,” Foote said. NCAA tournament performance leads to the locker room. dence they played with, we kind season this way,” Wisconsin’s “We’re very experienced and very in 11 outings. “I just came down the wrong of ran into a buzz saw,” Keaton Jordan Taylor said. “We thought confident in ourselves.” 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Summer Camp Counselor for chil-but the dreamers of the day are gradrentals.viewwork.com not go it alone. Notre Dame has dren w/disabilities. Must have dangerous men, for they may actFOR SALE FOR RENT ——————————————— many resources in place to assist strong work ethic and be interested their dream with open eyes to make you. If you or someone you love in making a difference in the life of it possible. - T.E. Lawrence 
ATTN: Grad Student-faculty. needs confidential support or assis-a child. $10-$15.25 hr., 35 hr/wk, ——————————————— Migrating sales! on computer in Spacious 2-bdrm, 2.5 bath home, PERSONAL tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at summer only. 5 sites in Summit The first step in the acquisition of good condition plus tv and other LR, DR, FR, Florida Room. Fenced 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For County, Ohio. Must enjoy outdoor wisdom is silence, the second lis­stuff,tel:3536377 or 4045906 yard, 2-car garage. Security. Near more information, visit ND's web activities. Visit www.akroncyo.org to tening, the third memory, the fourth ——————————————— ND. 262-332-0015. site: download an application from the practice, the fifth teaching others. 
——————————————— If you or someone you care about http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu Careers link. EOE Solomon Ibn Gabriol Chicago's Wrigleyville three bed-For rent: Furnished 4 bedroom has been sexually assaulted, we ——————————————— ——————————————— Life is like the dice that, falling, still room, 2 1/2 bath. Rent from an house 5 blocks from campus. Off can help. For more information, visit All men dream but not equally. show a different face. So life, alum. Move in after graduation day street parking, security system, Notre Dame's website: Cleaning By Maria 954-657-1898 Those who dream by night in the though it remains the same, is $1950; lglunziv@registech.com 773 central air. Nice. Only $350.00 a http.csap.nd.edu Homes, Apartments, Offices dusty recesses of their minds wake always presenting different aspects. 307 9010 month each. Call 574-289-4071. Affordable and Relaible in the day to find that it was vanity; Alexis ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 

Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Monday, March 22, 2010 page 13 
NCAA Men’s Tennis Division I Rankings 
team previous 
1 Virginia 1 2 Tennessee 2 3 Southern California 5 4 Ohio State 3 5 Texas 4 6 Kentucky 8 7 Florida 7 8 UCLA 6 9 Georgia 11 10 Illinois 12 11 California 10 12 Stanford 9 13 Mississippi 15 14 Louisville 13 15 Texas Tech 18 16 Baylor 14 17 Wake Forest 20 18 Washington 22 19 Florida State 19 20 Oklahoma 21 21 Virginia Tech 16 22 Fresno State NR 23 BYU 23 24 Pepperdine NR 25 Michigan NR 
NCAA Women’s Tennis Division I Rankings 
team  previous  
1  Northwestern  1  
2  UCLA  4  
3  NOTRE DAME  3  
4  North Carolina  2  
5  Florida  6  
6  Michigan  7  
7  Duke  8  
8  California  5  
9  Baylor  9  
10  Clemson  10  
11  Stanford  14  
12  Tennessee  11  
13  Southern California  12  
14  Georgia  17  
15  Florida State  13  
16  Washington  18  
17  Arkansas  15  
18  Miami (Fla.)  16  
19  VCU  NR  
20  South Carolina  NR  
21  South Florida  20  
22  Mississippi  NR  
23  DePaul  24  
24  Yale  NR  
25  Vanderbilt  19  



around the dial 
NHL 
Penguins at Red Wings 7 p.m., Versus 
NBA 
Spurs at Hawks 8 p.m., ESPN 
MLB 

Twins sign Mauer to $184M extension 
Associated Press 
MINNEAPOLIS — Joe Mauer is staying home. 
The AL MVP agreed to an eight-year, $184 million contract extension with Minnesota on Sunday that includes a full no-trade clause, a massive deal that shows the Twins are no longer spending like a small-market club. 
The deal covers the 2011­2018 seasons and is the fourth largest — both in total value and average salary — in major league history. Starting next sea­son, the All-Star catcher will make $23 million a year. 
The team said on Sunday evening that neither Mauer nor team officials would comment until a news con­ference scheduled for 7 
p.m. EDT on Monday at the team’s spring training facil­ity in Fort Myers, Fla. 
With the announcement, the entire state of Minnesota can take a deep breath and relax. 
The 26-year-old Mauer, who has won three AL bat­ting titles and is considered one of the best defensive catchers in the game, was entering the final year of his current contract. 
Even though both he and the Twins insisted all along that he would be staying in Minnesota, Twins fans were growing more nervous by the day as negotiations dragged on. But agent Ron Shapiro and Twins brass eventually worked out the deal, ensuring that the hometown favorite wouldn’t be lured away by one of the many big spenders that were salivating at the thought of adding the sweet-swinging lefty to their battery after this sea­son. 
Then the Twins, who have become much more fiscally aggressive as they prepare to open Target Field in 2010, came through with a staggering package. 
The $184 million total worth is fourth behind two deals signed by Alex Rodriguez — the $275 mil­lion deal with the Yankees signed in December 2007 and a $252 million contract signed with Texas in December 2000 — and Derek Jeter’s $189 million deal signed with the Yankees in 2001 that expires after this season. 
The only players to have a higher average salary than Mauer’s $23 million are Roger Clemens ($28,000,022 prorated deal in 2007 — he actually received $17,442,637 — with the Yankees) and Rodriguez, who had aver­age salaries of $25.2 million from 2001-07 and $27.5 million in a deal that runs through 2017. 
Yankees ace CC Sabathia also has an average salary of $23 million as part of a deal that runs from 2009­15. 
IN BRIEF 
Flames’ Langkow hit in neck with puck 
ST. PAUL, Minn. — Calgary Flames center Daymond Langkow is in good condition at a local hospital after being hit in the back of the neck with a puck. 
The team said Langkow has move­ment in all his extremities and is undergoing X-rays and more tests. 
Langkow was not moving as he was removed from the ice on a stretcher. The 13-year veteran remained on the ice for nearly 10 minutes before leaving. He was injured at 5:20 of the second period of Sunday’s game against the Minnesota Wild. 
Langkow was checked from behind by Minnesota defenseman Greg Zanon and hit Wild defenseman Marek Zidlicky as he lost his balance and fell forward. With Langkow’s head down as he fell, Calgary defenseman Ian White fired toward the net and hit his teammate. 
Braves, Cardinals rained out in Kissimmee 
KISSIMMEE, Fla. — Jair Jurrjens hasn’t had much luck with the weather this spring, but the Atlanta Braves right-hander is still on track to make his first regular-season start April 7 against the Chicago Cubs. 
Jurrjens fell victim to the rain again Sunday, which washed out Atlanta’s scheduled game against the St. Louis Cardinals. He’ll get his work in during a minor league game Monday as he con­tinues in catch-up mode after reporting to spring training with a sore shoulder. 
A 14-game winner in 2009, Jurrjens was held out of the canceled game because of the weather, as was sched­uled Cardinals starter Brad Penny. The teams ended up making it into the sec­ond inning despite the rain before play was stopped. 
“I wanted to pitch today, but it’s not a problem,” Jurrjens said. “My shoulder feels good now, so I’m OK. I’ll get my work in.” 
Weiner expects labor talks to begin next year 
TAMPA, Fla. — New baseball play­ers’ union head Michael Weiner antici­pates talks with Major League Baseball on a new collective bargaining agree­ment will begin by spring training or perhaps a bit earlier next year. 
“Our goal will try to be, in one sense, you always want to have an agreement without a threat of a stoppage,” Weiner said on Sunday. “But you also have to have an agreement that works for both sides. I’m sure that everybody will try our best to get a deal done on a kind of timeframe that we did last time. So we’ll just have to see how it plays out.” 
The current agreement expires in December 2011. The deal was announced during the 2006 World Series, about two months before the previous agreement expired. 
Weiner and other union officials met with New York Yankees players as part of a tour of spring training camps. 
page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, March 22, 2010 
NHL 
Bruins move into 8th place with win against New York 
Boyd, Hornquist score back-to-back goals late in third period to help boost Predators in victory over Blues 
Associated Press 
BOSTON — Miroslav Satan and Dennis Wideman scored for Boston and Tuuka Rask kept the New York Rangers scoreless until late in the third period in the Bruins’ 2-1 victo­ry Sunday. 
Boston has 76 points to hold the eighth and final playoff spot in the Eastern Conference with 11 games remaining. The Rangers remained in 10th place with 71 points and 10 games left. The Atlanta Thrashers, with 11 games to go before playing Sunday night in Philadelphia, have 73. 
The Bruins had been 1-8-3 at home since winning the Winter Classic on Jan. 1 at Fenway Park, 2-1 over Philadelphia. And they were coming off a lackluster per­formance in a 3-0 home loss to the Pittsburgh Penguins on Thursday night. 
Michael Del Zotto scored for the Rangers, who failed to rebound from a 4-3 loss to St. Louis that same night and have lost three in a row. 
Satan’s fifth goal of the sea­son late in the second period came just 23 seconds after Boston's Daniel Paille failed to score on a penalty shot when it deflected off Henrik Lundqvist’s glove. 
Wideman scored his fourth goal — and first since Jan. 9, also against the Rangers — midway through the third period when he lifted a back­hander from the left circle over Lundqvist’s glove to the far side. 
That became critical when Del Zotto ruined Rask’s bid for his fourth shutout with his eighth goal with 3:04 left in the game. Del Zotto scored on a blast from the middle of the blue line as Olli Jokinen skat­ed across the slot to try and screen Rask. 
The Rangers had made a solid bid with the score 1-0 when Dan Girardi fired a shot from the inside edge of the right circle about 15 feet from Rask. But the goalie skated out and the shot went into his pads. 
Neither team mustered many good scoring chances despite the significance of the game. Both had been strug­gling in their efforts to gain a playoff berth. 
Boston finally showed some offensive spark after four scoreless periods when Satan scored at 16:36 of the second period. Andrew Ference skat­ed in from the left point to the low left circle and fired a low pass across the slot, where Satan waited to put it past Lundqvist. 
Wideman made it 2-0 at 10:40 of the third period, but the Rangers weren’t finished yet as Del Zotto ruined Rask’s shutout bid. But New York couldn’t score again despite pulling Lundqvist from the net for an extra skater. 
Nashville 3, St. Louis 2 
Dustin Boyd scored his sec­ond goal of the game 48 sec­onds after teammate Patric Hornqvist tied it late in the third period, helping the Nashville Predators beat the St. Louis Blues on Sunday night. 
Defenseman Carlo Colaiacovo had a goal and assist for the Blues, who fell to an NHL -worst 12-18-5 at home with a setback that could be devastating to faint playoff hopes. They were 9-3 in the previous 12 games, but remained six points out of the final Western Conference spot with 10 games to go. 
David Perron put the Blues ahead early in the third, swat­ting in a backhander. 
Colaiacovo’s power-play goal in the first period ended Nashville goalie Pekka Rinne’s shutout streak at 149:04, including 1-0 victories over Columbus Saturday and 5-0 over Minnesota on Thursday. Rinne made 59 saves before the goal. 
Boyd added his first goal in nine games since being acquired from Calgary on the trade deadline to tie it at 1 late in the second period. 
Nashville outshot the Blues 39-25 and carried play much of the final two periods with a combined 29-13 advantage. That made things easier on Rinne. 
Alex Steen assisted on both St. Louis goals and has 19 points in 19 games. 
Hornqvist scored his team-leading 28th goal on a rebound with 3:34 left, and Boyd also converted a rebound with 2:46 remaining after a Blues player diverted the puck to his stick off Martin Erat’s centering pass from behind the net. 


Monday, March 22, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Lavender, Buckeyes dominate early in rout 
Vanderbilt comes through in overtime to take down DePaul and advance into second round of tournament 
didn’t let up even when their Events Center earlier this sea-
Associated Press 
reserves began coming off the son might show that they could 
PITTSBURGH — Neither sick-bench. play at this level, but the talent­ness nor St. Francis were about Shavelle Little, a two-time Big ed Buckeyes never gave them a to slow Ohio State. Ten defensive player of the chance. 
Jantel Lavender dominated year, made all six of her shots With Pitt missing from the inside for Ohio State with 23 while scoring 14 points and get-tournament field following a points and 16 rebounds against ting five steals, displaying the disappointing 16-15 season, smaller St. Francis and the sec-kind of depth the Buckeyes will only several thousand fans ond-seeded Buckeyes opened need if they meet defending showed up at the 12,508-seat up a 27-point lead before half-national champion Connecticut Petersen Events Center. Pitt bid time during a 93-59 rout in a in the regional final next week-for the event with the expecta­first-round NCAA Dayton end. tion it would reach the tourna-Regional game on Sunday. Maybe it was Buckeyes coach ment. 
Lavender, the three-time Big Jim Foster’s warning that the Ten player of the year, starting Red Flash resembled Iowa that Vanderbilt 83, DePaul 76 guard Tayler Hill and two made his players determined to Coming out of the sideline reserves became ill after eating never let St. Francis into the huddle at the start of overtime, sandwiches following practice game. Ohio State scrambled Vanderbilt players reminded Saturday, but the Buckeyes (31-from 16 points down to beat each other that under the 
4) certainly look to be recov-Iowa 66-64 in the Big Ten tour-biggest pressure, they’d never ered by game time. nament, but no comeback was cracked. 
They reeled off runs of 11-0, needed this time. Wouldn’t this time, either. 19-2 and 13-3 before halftime, Ohio State, No. 8 in the final Merideth Marsh scored nine taking control from the start AP poll, won for the ninth time of her 26 points in overtime and never allowing the Red in 10 games by shooting 49.3 Sunday, rallying the Flash (17-15) to build any confi-percent (37 of 75) to the Red Commodores to an victory over dence or momentum. Flash’s 28.6 percent (20 of 70) DePaul in the first round of the 
The Red Flash had no one and outrebounded them 55-38. NCAA tournament. who could defend the 6-foot-4 St. Francis was 7 of 30 from 3-Vanderbilt (23-10) had won Lavender’s post-up moves, point range. both of its overtime games dur­Johnson’s outside shooting or Britney Hodges and Brittany ing the season, including its point guard Samantha Prahalis’ Lilley scored 16 points and opener in the SEC tournament. playmaking, as quickly became Samantha Leach had 14 for St. Marsh, one of three seniors tak­evident. Johnson ended with 18 Francis, which is 0-10 in NCAA ing the floor for overtime, points, going 4 of 8 from 3-point play, losing each time by at brought that up. range, while Prahalis had 14 least 15 points. “Overtime is about heart,” points, 13 assists and six This was the Red Flash’s first Marsh said. “It’s a mental rebounds. appearance under coach Susan game, and you don’t want to 
It didn’t take long. Robinson Fruchtl, a former walk away with a loss.” 
Johnson hit a pair of 3-point-Penn State star who got her Marsh became Vanderbilt’s ers and Sarah Schulze made team into the NCAA tournament career 3-point leader in the another as the Buckeyes despite being only fifth-seeded first half, when she scored 14 opened a 11-0 lead with only in the Northeast Conference points. She hit only one basket 
2:11 gone — and it didn’t get tournament. in the second half — another 3 much better for the Flash. The The Red Flash took some — but led the Commodores Buckeyes led 32-9 at the mid-hope into the game that a near through overtime by scoring the point of the first half, and they upset of Pitt at the Petersen old-fashioned way. She had a three-point play and a fast-off the first 11 points. break layup as Vanderbilt ran No surprise. 

SMC TENNIS 
Belles fall to ranked opponent Ind. Wesleyan 
match to No. 13 Indiana 
By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Wesleyan Saturday, 6-3, despite 
Sports Writer 
another impressive showing by junior Jillian Hurley, the Belles’ The Belles dropped a close No. 1 singles player and mem­

ber of the No. 2 doubles pair. 
Belles coach Dale Campbell said he was pleased by the Belles’ (6-3) improvement despite the loss, and noted that Saint Mary’s was only slightly outmatched by an undefeated Indiana Wesleyan, a power­house in its own conference. 
“I thought we had a little bit of an off day,” Campbell said. “We played a good team in Indiana Wesleyan.” 
From the outset of the season, Campbell has stressed the importance of doubles play as an aspect the team must improve in order to have a suc­cessful season. The improve­ments he has been seeing, how­ever, are central to this goal. 
“Our doubles game is improv­ing,” Campbell said. “We’re still trying to get more aggressive, though. 
“Our overall game just needs to keep improving,” Campbell said. “Our No. 1 doubles team played really well, despite los­ing, and we seemed to play the net much more aggressively. I was happy with their improve­ment.” 
Hurley continues to stand out as the Belles’ top performer. She defeated Wildcat Lisa Massey in three sets and won the No. 2 doubles match with partner Mary Therese Lee. Hurley has yet to drop a match on the individual side and has won all but one of her doubles matches so far this season. Campbell has also been pleased by Hurley’s performance this season, he said. 
Junior Franca Peluso at No. 4 singles was the only other Belles singles win Saturday. 
This weekend marked the end of the Belles’ nonconference competition. With six quality wins under their belt, they will move forward with confidence as they prepare for MIAA play. 
Last year Saint Mary’s fin­ished fifth in the conference, ending the season with a win over Olivet in the conference tournament. The team will to improve upon its 2009 standing this spring. 
Saint Mary’s begins its confer­ence season Saturday against Alma. The match will take place either outdoors on the Saint Mary’s campus or indoors at Notre Dame, depending on the weather. 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 
Belles 
continued from page 17 
plate, including junior Hayley Bojorquez and senior Ashley Peterson. Bojorquez hit a home run in the sixth inning to tie the game for the Belles and Peterson ’s seventh inning homer gave them the lead. Senior Maureen Healy came up big with a number of clutch hits throughout the day and sophomore Kristen Nelson went 3-for-3 with an RBI in the second game. 
Senior Sarah Montelongo made a huge contribution to the team’s offensive effort, batting in no five RBIs in the second game while crossing the plate for runs in each game. 
“Sara Montelongo has really found her niche in the DP [designated player] posi­tion. She is hitting the ball hard and has had some good at-bats,” Sullivan said. “She looks very confident at the plate and is hitting just shy 
of .400 right now, exactly what a coach wants from a DP!” 
The Belles will have a week off before they take to the field against North Park University in a doubleheader Sunday. 
Contact Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwi2@nd.edu 
page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, March 22, 2010 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Irish defeat Terriers in sudden-death overtime 

By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
Senior attack Gina Scioscia’s goal in the second sudden-death period closed out No. 15 Notre Dame’s 7-6 comeback victory over No. 11 Boston University Saturday. 
“There were some huge defensive plays out there,” Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. “[Freshman goalkeeper] Ellie Hilling made a big save in overtime where it came down to a one-on-one situation. Each defender had a big play, and all 
“You can say this much about this team, they have a refuse-to-lose mentality,” Coyne said. “We created the situations that won us this game. It wasn’t BU falling apart. It came from our tough­ness.” 
The game, which went into two overtimes and lasted more than 71 minutes, ended as the second-longest game in Notre Dame history. The Irish caused several of Boston’s 14 turnovers in the extra period while Hilling kept Notre Dame in the game with an eight-save perform­ance in only her 
of those plays “We created the fifth collegiate 
led to opportu-situations that won start in net. nities on the Coyne was 
us this game.” 
offensive end.” especiall y 
Sophomore pleased with attack Maggie Tracy Coyne the rookie goal-Tamasitis keeper. 
Irish coach 
strarted off the scoring in the first half for the Irish (4-1). Freshman midfield Jenny Granger scored Notre Dame’s only other goal in the half midway through the period, and the Irish closed the half with a 2-1 lead in a low-scor­ing opening period. 
“We were getting good looks the whole game,” Coyne said. “Their goalie is very good. Sometimes we would shoot wide, and sometimes she would make a great save. We could shoot better, but I think we still got it done.” 
The Terriers scored five of the first seven goals after half­time to take a 6-4 lead with three minutes left in the game, but the Irish got clutch goals from junior midfield Shaylyn Blaney and Tamasitis to tie the game and send it into over­time. 
“She had a 
great game 
{Saturday], ” 
Coyne said. “She came out with a real strong warm-up and we had a feeling that she was going to play well, which she did.” 
Coyne was also pleased with the way her team dealt with fatigue in the high-pressure situations of overtime. 
“We were definitely in shape, we were composed,” Coyne said. “Our end-of-game defensive unit was really strong under pressure and we work on that in practice so we’re pleased by that.” 
The Irish will look to contin­ue their winning ways when they take on No. 14 Vanderbilt Wednesday at 2:30 p.m. in the team’s home opener at Arlotta Stadium. 
Contact Chris Allen at callen10@nd.edu 

Monday, March 22, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
BASEBALL 
Spartans ruin Irish home debut with sweep 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Senior Sports Writer 
After a month of traveling to early season tournaments, the Irish were eager to play their first home games this weekend. Eck Stadium was not kind to Notre Dame, however, as Michigan State swept the Irish in the three-game series. 
The first game of the Saturday doubleheader was all Spartans, as Michigan State starter A.J. Achter tossed a complete game shutout and the Irish were routed 13-0. Achter struck out nine and gave up seven hits in the win, and Notre Dame sophomore Steve Sabatino was touched up for nine runs in five innings. 
“We had a good focused approach coming into the weekend and came out with a lot of positive energy despite the weather,” Irish senior pitcher Eric Maust said. “We had a good attitude coming into the weekend but didn’t see the results we wanted.” 

Freshman second baseman Frank Desico had two of Notre Dame’s seven hits in the game. 
The Irish rebounded in Saturday’s second game to take an early lead, scoring three runs in the opening frame off Spartan starter Kurt Wunderlich. Senior outfielder Ryan Connolly hit a two-run home run over the left field fence, and Notre Dame scored a third run after Wunderlich threw a wild pitch with the bases loaded. 
Michigan State got on the board in the second off Irish starter Brian Dupra, and an RBI single by Spartan Eli Bokie in the fifth inning narrowed the score to 3-2. 
Another wild pitch with the bases loaded by Wunderlich helped Notre Dame nudge the lead back to two runs, but in the sev­enth inning the Irish pitching began to struggle. 
After Dupra allowed a run and 
Swim 
continued from page 20 
Nixon is the only other Irish All-American in the 50 freestyle. Nixon accomplished the feat in 1999, 2000 and 2002. 
Maxwell also earned an All-American honor in the 100 breast­stroke for the second consecutive season with her 14th-place finish Friday evening. She recorded a time of 1:01.09 in the finals after swimming a 1:00.69 in the prelimi­was relieved by senior Steven Mazur, Michigan State broke through with two more runs off walks by Mazur to take a 6-4 lead. The Spartans added an insurance run in the ninth inning and closer Kurtis Frymier picked up the save. 
Maust had a strong performance in Sunday’s finale, but the Irish were shut out for the second con­secutive day, falling to Michigan State starter Tony Bucciferro 3-0. 
Notre Dame managed just a pair of hits off Bucciferro in the com­plete game shutout, never threat­ening to score until the ninth inning. The Irish managed to load the bases with a walk, a double and a hit batsman, but Bucciferro struck out junior shortstop Mick Doyle to finish the game. 
“Michigan State is a good team, their hitters didn’t chase many pitches and forced us to locate around the zone,” Maust said. 
naries. Maxwell also earned All-American status in the event as a sophomore. 
Both Notre Dame swimmers swam in Saturday’s events, but neither one reached the finals of their respective races. 
Miller finished 25th in the 100 freestyle with a time of 49.44 while Maxwell finished 36th in the 200 breaststroke with a time of 2:14.17. 
The Irish had some ups and downs in the regular season before the Big East championships, where they had their best performance of the season and captured their 14th consecutive Big East title. The Irish should be favored to win the con­ference again next season as both Miller and Maxwell will return for their senior campaigns. 
Maxwell and Miller picked up 14 points for the team as the Irish fin­ished 38th among the 47 teams. Florida won the team title with 382 points, followed by Stanford with 
379.5 and California in third with 363 points. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
Stahl 
continued from page 20 
through for the win. 
Friday saw the Irish defeat a ranked Fresno State team, 4-3, to advance to the semifinals. 
Notre Dame’s pairs struggled again at first and third doubles as Havens and Watt lost 8-4 at the top position while Anderson and Stahl traded points with the Bulldog’s Tejesvi Veerepalli and Siddharth Alapati to a 9-7 loss. 
Anderson was downed again at fourth singles, but the Irish came back with wins by Watt, Stahl, Keeton and Moros. 
The team’s win streak came to an end against Texas Tech Saturday, as the Irish fell 4-0. The Red Raiders grabbed the doubles point and wins at first, second and third singles to advance to the championship match. 
Texas Tech claimed the first two doubles matches at second and third singles over the Irish duo of sophomore Niall Fitzgerald and junior Tyler Davis and the combi­“There were no easy outs but nothing was insurmountable.” 
Maust allowed just two runs on seven hits in six innings, striking out three and walking one. 
“I was decently pleased with my execution but there is still a lot of room for improvement,” Maust said. “A big positive for me is that I get more and more comfortable out there with each outing, and I feel like I’m gaining a lot of strength back that had been idle during football season.” 
The Irish fell to 7-11 on the sea­son with the losses. Notre Dame will host two more home games this week against Ball State and Illinois-Chicago Tuesday and Wednesday, respectively, before starting Big East play this weekend at South Florida. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
nation of Anderson and Stahl. With the doubles point already won, the first doubles pair of Havens and Watt did not take on the Red Raiders’ No. 18 duo of Raony Carvalho and Rafael Garcia. 
No. 27 Watt was defeated 6-1, 6­0, by No. 15 Carvalho at first sin­gles, and Havens lost 6-0, 6-3 to No. 63 Gonzalo Escobar. Stahl fell 6-2, 6-4 to Garcia. Anderson and Moros did not finish their matches with the overall match already decided. 
Texas Tech went on to defeat No. 17 Oklahoma in the tournament’s title match Sunday. 
Notre Dame returns to the courts next weekend at Northwestern as the Irish continue a nine-match road streak. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 

SMC SOFTBALL 
Belles sweep Spartans for non-conference win 
By KEVIN BALDWIN 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s brought home a pair of wins Saturday as the Belles swept Manchester College in a doubleheader. The Belles claimed their first victory in dramatic fashion by a score of 7-6 after two extra innings before an 11-8 win to close the day. 
One of the most crucial aspects of the Belles’ double victory was their solid per­formance in the field that allowed them to hold the Spartans in critical situa ­tions. Sophomore pitcher Monica Palicki was a force on the mound, throwing all nine innings of the opening game while giving up only one earned run to record her fourth win of the season. 
“Monica Palicki threw real­ly well and battled through some tough spots. I was impressed with her mental toughness, ” Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. “[Sophomore] Lauren Enayati had stellar defense in both games. It was very windy and she tracked down some balls that would not be caught by the average center fielder. She made some big outs for us.” 
Several Saint Mary’s play­ers had big games at the plate, including junior Hayley Bojorquez and senior 
see BELLES/page 15 
page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, March 22, 2010 
Vikings 
continued from page 20 
during the first half, scoring 21 of Cleveland State’s 25 points in the period. Klein got the score as close as 29-25 with 1:13 left on the clock before the Irish went on a quick run to stretch things to 34­25 heading into the break. 
“I have not seen a player have that kind of half this year, and we have played against some pretty good players,” McGraw said. “We haven’t seen anybody have that kind of performance in a half. She had 21 of their 25 points. She had just a spectacular game and she is a great player.” 
Since both teams caught the turnover bug early in the game — the Irish turned the ball over 14 times and Cleveland State (19-14) 24 times — the first team to step up on defense would gain the advantage. Senior guard Ashley Barlow served that role for the Irish. 
“Barlow was chasing me all over the floor,” Klein said. “I was com­ing out expecting that and I just hoped my teammates would hit some shots.” 
Barlow helped lead the Irish attack with 13 points, but her abil­ity to shut down Klein in the sec­ond half was what really stood out. Klein was only able to add 10 points to her total in the second half after her breakout 21-point first half. 
“In the first half, Klein was con­stantly moving and we were not quite sure where she was,” Barlow said. “In the second half, we tried to locate her and know where she was on the floor at all times. I tried to not let her touch the ball at all and tried hard to deny her in the second half.” 
Klein broke down and cried after the game knowing that she was able to leave such a strong performance on the floor at a place she idolized as a child and had always wanted to play after growing up in Cherry, Ill. 
“I really just went out there and gave it all I could. Notre Dame was my idol growing up, so I wanted to come in here and prove myself on the floor I always wanted to play on,” she said. 
Freshman guard Skylar Diggins had a somewhat quiet night with seven points and five turnovers. Despite the shaky performance, McGraw wanted to emphasize the positives in Diggins’ game: her team-leading eight assists and seven rebounds. 
“I think a lot of times players look at their offense, and she looks at her turnovers, which I think indicates that she was a little nerv­ous to start the game,” McGraw said. “I think after getting one [Tournament] game under her belt, she is going to be ready for Tuesday.” 
Against a small Cleveland State team, Notre Dame exploited the inside post game and got the ball inside. Junior forward Becca Bruszewski came off the bench to lead the team in scoring with 14 points, while senior center Erica Williamson and junior forward Devereaux Peters added eight and 12 points, respectively. 
“We had a height advantage,” McGraw said. “They came in a lit­tle bigger in the first half when Devereaux Peters was in foul trou­ble, but in the second half I thought we did a better job of get­ting the ball down to [senior for­ward] Lindsay Schrader, Erica Williamson, Becca Bruszewski and Devereaux [Peters]. We just really wanted to get them some touch­es.” 
Now that the Irish have advanced to the second round, they will take on No. 10-seed Vermont (27-6), which pulled an upset 64-55 win over No. 7-seed Wisconsin in the game just before Notre Dame’s. 
The Irish will tip off with Vermont Tuesday in the Purcell Pavilion at 7 p.m. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
Buckeyes 
continued from page 20 
way to win.” 
Corrigan said Earl’s play in the win was the difference between the Irish and the Buckeyes. 
“David Earl was unbeliev­able. David was our best play­er,” he said. “He made plays at both ends of the field. He was an absolute warrior.” 
Of Earl’s winning goal, Corrigan said the junior ful­filled his role, and more. 
“It was a typical play where we have him in for that situa­tion because they have ball coming out of the timeout and he’s in there to play defense,” Corrigan said. “He plays defense, gets the ball, clears the ball and scores an unas­sisted goal. It was a great play by him.” 
Earl not only scored the winning goal, but also netted Notre Dame’s first goal of the game — after Ohio State start­ed the game with a 2-0 advan­tage — and he scored the tying goal with less than four minutes to play in regulation. 
The Irish needed Earl’s heroics from the opening minute of the game after the Buckeyes scored just 36 sec­onds into the contest. 
“I’d feel better [about our defense] if I didn’t feel we gave them a couple goals,” Corrigan said. “It was a very good defensive performance in our settled defense, but we gave them a goal seconds into the game. Those kind of things are disappointing, especially when you end up in overtime because you realize those are the goals that could have cost you the game.” 
Despite his disappointment in the overall performance, Corrigan said the way the Irish fought through the fourth quarter and overtime was promising. 
“I was really happy with the way we scrapped in the fourth quarter to put ourselves in a position to win that game,” he said. “Given what it was in terms of how we played to that point, down a couple in the fourth quarter and need­ing to make plays, I was very happy with how hard our guys fought.” 
Notre Dame next takes the field when it opens up Big East play Saturday against Rutgers at Arlotta Stadium. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
Vandy 
continued from page 20 
point.” 
In singles competition, the Commodores and the Irish traded the lead back and forth as fresh­man Chrissie McGaffigan and junior Kristen Rafael added two points to the total. Losses from Rielley and sophomore Shannon Mathews, and an upset by Vanderbilt’s No. 38 Catherine Newman over Frilling left the match’s decision up to the final contest between Ciobanu and Dillon. 
“I didn’t feel like I played my best,” Frilling said. “I was definitely disappointed, and I feel like I didn’t adjust really well to her game.” 
After winning the first set and los­ing the second, Ciobanu’s eight-match win streak was greatly threatened heading into the third set. But Ciobanu won the tiebreak point and the match for Notre Dame. 
“[Ciobanu] was playing a girl with a huge serve, [but] she adjusted really well, came through for us and pulled out the win,” Frilling said. 
Beating Vanderbilt improved Notre Dame’s overall record to 13-2 and picked up its spirits after last week’s loss to No. 7 Duke. The 4-3 victory suggests minor adjustments need to be made before the Irish get too comfortable as the nation’s No. 3 team, Frilling said. 
“It was a lot closer than what we want our matches to be,” she said. 
“We’ve been meeting with everyone and talking about improving. We’re talking about the mindset about playing for the best and fighting for every point.” 
The Irish will be back on the courts against TCU at Kansas State in Wichita, Kan., Saturday. 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 

Monday, March 22, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 


 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 
Monday, March 22, 2010 page 20 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
A balanced victory 
Irish use their bench in first round win 
By JARED JEDICK 
Senior Sports Writer 
The No. 2-seed Irish used their depth to wear down a spirited Cleveland State team and over­come a 31-point performance by Vikings guard Kailey Klein in an 86-58 victory in the first round of the NCAA Tournament Sunday at the Purcell Pavilion. 
“I was really pleased with the second half,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “We did a really nice job with the balance of the game. I thought different people stepped up at different times. I thought in the first half we were able to get out to a nice little jump.” 
Klein went off on the Irish (28-5) PAT COVENY/The Observer 
Senior guard Melissa Lechlitner shoots in Notre Dame’s win over Cleveland State Sunday in the first see VIKINGS/page 18 round of the NCAA Tournament. The No. 2-seed Irish will face No. 10-seed Vermont Tuesday. 

ND SWIMMING 
Juniors earn All American honors 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
Juniors Amywren Miller and Samantha Maxwell ended their seasons by earning All-American recognition at the NCAA Championships at Purdue over the weekend. 
Miller, in her third career NCAA appearance, set a school record and earned All America honors in the 50-yard freestyle race. Her time of 22.49 seconds was fast enough for eighth overall on the first night of competition. Miller was seeded No. 20 heading into the compe­tition. 
“Amywren’s swim was a huge swim for her,” Irish coach Brian Barnes told und.com Thursday. “She swam like an All-American. She has worked hard all year and this has been a long time coming for her.” 
Notre Dame alumna Carrie 
see SWIM/page 17 
MEN’S TENNIS 
Notre Dame falls to Red Raiders in tournament semifinals 
few specific goals for his team as played in since 1991. The Irish opponents in their 17 matches. junior Stephen Havens and sopho-
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
they continue in the spring season. move to 9-8 on the season and 42-Over the weekend, sophomore more Casey Watt, 8-4. 
Sports Writer 
“Extend the rallies, be a little 25 all-time at the tournament, hav-Samuel Keeton improved to 10-0 in Freshman Blas Moros secured more patient outdoors, a little less ing won it three times previously in singles play for the season. his third straight win in straight Notre Dame took two of three at quick to pull the trigger, become a 1993, 2001 and 2007. The Irish opened the tournament sets (6-4, 6-3) to give the Irish their the Blue Gray Classic in much more sound outdoor team,” The win over Middle Tennessee with a 4-2 win over Middle first singles point. Havens and Watt Montgomery, Ala., falling to No. 16 Bayliss said. “Fortunate that we State was Bayliss’ 700th career Tennessee State Thursday to move were again defeated at first and Texas Tech Saturday as the team have made a good transition.” win, and his record now stands at onto the quarterfinals. They second singles, respectively, but continues to adjust to playing out-Notre Dame defeated Middle 701-306-1 in 41 seasons. secured the doubles point to get Notre Dame juniors David doors again. Tennessee State and No. 26 Fresno Notre Dame’s games against ahead, although the Blue Raiders Anderson and Daniel Stahl came Heading into the tournament, State in the first two rounds of the Texas Tech and Fresno State were pair of John Peers and Kyle 
Irish coach Bobby Bayliss had a tournament that the Irish have the Irish’s 11th and 12th ranked Wishing took out the No. 61 duo of see STAHL/page 17 
MEN’S LACROSSE 
Two hat tricks earn victory 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
Playing their fifth game in 14 days, the No. 9 Irish needed an overtime goal from junior mid­fielder David Earl to top Ohio State 7-6 Saturday. 
Both Earl and fellow junior midfielder Zach Brenneman recorded hat tricks for Notre Dame (5-2), providing the offense on a day when the team was off its game, Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. 
“It was great to pull one out like that, but I’m not sure we are playing the way we are capable of playing,” Corrigan said. “Though when you’re playing your fifth game in 14 days, you are happy to find a 
see BUCKEYES/page 18 

MAGGIE O’BRIEN/The Observer Junior David Earl passes to freshman Pat Cotter Sunday in Notre Dame’s victory over Ohio State, in which Earl scored the winning goal. 
ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Ciobanu brings team over the net for a win 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
Senior Cosmina Ciobanu came through under pressure Friday, as her three-set victory over Rachel Dillon of No. 17 Vanderbilt at No. 4 singles secured a 4-3 win for No. 3 Notre Dame. 
“It was a good match for us, but we learned a lot from it,” Irish sophomore Kristy Frilling said. “We needed that close of a match because I think it’s important for us to experience that you can’t go through a season just coasting.” 
Since switching their pairings around earlier in the season, the Irish doubles teams have won their point in each contest. 
The Irish won the doubles point after defeating the Commodores’ pairings in the first and third dou­bles slots. The first doubles team of Frilling and senior Kali Krisik, ranked No. 4 in the nation, topped their No. 27 opponents 8-3 to improve to 11-0 on the season. The Irish fell at second doubles, leaving the crucial doubles point up for grabs. The third doubles pairing of Ciobanu and senior Colleen Rielley came through, 8-6, for an early Irish lead to secure that point. 
“It helped a lot to win the dou­bles point, and we would have lost the match otherwise,” Frilling said. “Everyone seems to have found their partner and the dou­bles teams are doing well at this 
see VANDY/page 18 





