the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Panel: Perfectionism an issue at ND 
Event sponsored by the Gender Relations Center examines competition on campus 
By EMILY SCHRANK 
News Writer 
Competition and perfection­ism are prevalent issues at Notre Dame — often much more serious than they are considered to be, three experts said Monday evening. 
The Gender Relations Center presented “The Fighting Irish: Harder, Better, Faster, Stronger” as a part of their Signature Series in the Carey Auditorium of the Hesburgh Library. The lec­ture featured Daniel Lapsley, chair of the Psychology Department, Rita Donley, associate director of the University Counseling Center and Sondra Byrnes, a guided meditation instructor who is also a professor in the Mendoza College of Business. 
Lapsley focused on the psy­chological explanations of perfectionism. 
“There is a basic theme that perfectionism is a disorder or defect,” he said. “A perfec­tionist seeks and strives for unrealistic goals, evaluates stringently and self-censors against unattainable stan­dards.” 
According to Lapsley, the three developmental accounts of perfectionism share a com­mon thread: interactions with demanding, perfectionist par-
see GRC/page 6 





LaFortune cluster opening pushed back 
right now is that the carpet order took longer than expect­ed.” 
Burchett said the carpet is supposed to arrive on campus next week, and if all goes as planned, the cluster should reopen sometime during the first week of March. 
“We never intended it to be out of service this long and we know that students are really eager to have it back,” Burchett said. “It will be back soon, and we think that stu­dents will really like it.” 
The renovation is “a facelift with a few new things added,” Burchett said. The changes include a smaller service counter, two group study rooms and individual worksta­
see CLUSTER/page 4 
Schmidt, We ber prep for term end 
By SARAH MERVOSH 
Assistant News Editor 
With a month and a half left in office, student body presi­dent Grant Schmidt and vice president Cynthia Weber out­lined what they wish to accom­plish by the end of their tenure Monday. 
The Schmidt-Weber adminis­tration will officially conclude April 1 when student body president-elect Catherine Soler and vice president-elect Andrew Bell take over. 
Schmidt named off-campus safety, academic issues and improving community as three overarching priorities. 
“There won’t be a lot of new projects. We’re just going to make sure we kind of finish off and complete all the things that have been developing through­out the year,” he said. 
Schmidt said off-campus safety will always be a priority and he would like to continue working with the University and city to improve safety for students while off campus. 
Weber said they want to install a light at the corner of Twyckenham Drive and Vaness Street. 
“The idea is a flashing yellow light that students could push when they walk across to guar­antee their safety,” she said. 
Student government will 
see SCHMIDT/page 4 


By IRENA ZAJICKOVA 
News Writer 
Students hoping to be able to use the LaFortune Student Center computer cluster will have to wait for a few more weeks. 
Shipping delays have slowed the renovations, pushing the tentative opening date back a month, said Brian Burchett, Classroom and Computer Lab Spaces manager for the Office of Information and Technology (OIT). 
“We had thought originally that it would be done around [Feb. 1], but we ran into two issues that delayed it,” Burchett said. “The furniture order was delayed until this week but the bigger obstacle 




Students, faculty continue to support Haiti 
ND senior’s charity looks beyond 

College continues to focus on sending Africa to raise funds to aid country 
money to various relief organizations 
Engagement, said. 
Lakusta, a senior, said. 

By AMANDA GRAY 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Call said the agencies are “We started it in 
News Writer News Writer 

only asking for monetary Haiti as a way to pull aid 
response to the crisis in dona-
The Eyes on Africa and draw awareness 

As relief efforts for Haiti tions, so See Also Foundation, the charity from our unique group 
continue, Saint Mary’s t h e 

“Lecture

College has also continued College Lakusta, is branching ers,” Lakusta said. 
founded by senior Jeff of college-aged support-
to do its part in collecting has no analyzes 

funds for donation. plans to pressing needeffort in Haiti. coming from wineries 
out to aid the relief The donations are The College has been h o s t 


in Haiti”

focusing on helping the d r i v e s Haiti, an outlet of the donate a portion of pro-
Eyes on Africa Helps that have agreed to 

American Red Cross, for tan-page 3 Eyes on Africa ceeds from each case of 
Catholic Relief Services and g i b l e Foundation, is donating wine sold to Eyes on 
the Sisters of Holy Cross and items such as toiletries. funds raised through Africa Helps Haiti and 
Friends of the Orphans, The Office has continued wine sales, founder of Carrie Call, director of the Eyes on Africa Jeff see WINE/page 6 Office of Civic and Social see HAITI/page 6 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER SMC lecture analyzes Haiti page 3  Review of ‘Valentine’s Day’ page 4  Women’s basketball preview page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Tuesday, February 16, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 





‘Earmuff Girl’ 
Here at Notre Dame, there is a league of students that exist in a league that is all their own. They walk among us, and unlike snobby secret societies, they march boldly to and from DeBartolo and in and out of the dining hall. We all know them. Notre Dame people-watch­ing is defined by them. They are our beloved campus caricatures. 
You don’t know what I’m talking about? We’ll that’s just a problem of termi­nology. A campus Jess Shaffer caricature is someone who has so perfectly 

Scene Editor
and (relatively) eccen­trically defined their external behavior that they can be univer­sally recognized and identified on campus. 
You may know them as Tex or Daisy Duke. Or you may know them as “the chick that always wears cutoffs” and the “the guy in cowboy hat.” And these are just a few. The point is, you might not know their name, dorm, major or hometown, but you undoubtedly recognize them. And everyone else does too. 
While I always had a fond appreciation for my favorite caricatures, I never aspired to their lofty heights. But as Shakespeare wrote, “Some men are born great. Some achieve greatness. And some have great­ness thrust upon them.” I guess the same goes for women. 
This Christmas, everything changed. When I unwrapped a small sparkly bag from my grandparents, I didn’t think this present was going to have such a profound effect on me. But then I pulled out a pair of earmuffs. 
These are not just any earmuffs. These are earmuff that accidentally got dropped into radioactive waste and came out three times as large, and three times as cool as your average ear protective gear. Essentially, they are superhuman earmuffs. 
Warm, inordinately fuzzy and furry and amply disproportionate to my head (grant­ed, I have an abnormally small head), these earmuffs are now on my list of favorite things. Yes, they are indeed worthy of a song sung by Julie Andrews. 
Well, apparently these earmuffs, and my frequent use of them in this frigid winter months, qualifies me to join the special league of campus caricatures. It honestly never occurred to me that they’d be notice­ably eccentric on such a wide scale. Not until a fortuitous night, where an (albeit slightly drunken classmate) exclaimed “It’s Earmuff Girl! All my friends, we call you earmuff girl!” 
Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I am worthy of my own caricature title — Earmuff Girl. Of course, the consequential jokes of “huh, can you hear me through those?!” and Princess Leia references follow. But tease and joke all you want. At least through March, I will proudly be Earmuff Girl! And admit it — you’re a little jealous of my cool­ness. Don’t worry, I’m humble enough to admit my surprise at the situation but am more than happy to embrace it. Because as Bill said sometimes greatness if just thrust upon you, or in this case gifted to you. 
So thank you for nominating me to join the illustrious league of campus carica­tures; I proudly accept. I would like not only to thank the academy, God, my friends and family, but most especially my grandpar­ents. Best. Christmas Present. Ever. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jess Shaffer at jshaffe1@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 
The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT  S YOUR FAVOR TE W NTER OLYMP C SPORT? 







Jeremy Lamb  Brian Wysocki  Kallie Drexler  Zak Kapopoulos  Huong Ngo  
sophomore  junior  sophomore  sophomore  senior  
Knott  Fisher  Walsh  Keenan  Ryan  
“Four-man  “Shaun White’s  “Biathalon, it’s  “Luge, it’s a  “It’s a tie  
bobsled. Hoping  interviews! I  like Texas in the  killer sport.”  between figure  
to see Jamaica  was taking  winter!”  skating and  
turn in another  notes. On ...  snowboarding  
strong  that ...”  because I love  
performance.”  Shaun White.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

SUZANNA PRATT/The Observer Cold weather does not stop midnight shenanigans on campus, resulting in a bicycle left high in a tree on South Quad Monday. 
OFFBEAT 

Unemployed Ohio man chills out in igloo 
AQUILLA, Ohio — It’s quite the man cave. 
Jimmy Grey says he’s been out of work for almost a year and needed a project to stay busy. So with the heavy snowfall this winter, the 25-year­old laborer got to work on an extreme igloo in his family’s yard in Aquilla (ah-KWIL’-uh), about 30 miles east of Cleveland. 
His four-room creation has 6-foot ceilings and an entertainment room. He powers the TV with an extension cord plugged into an outlet in the garage. He also ran wires for cable television with surround-sound stereo. 
Grey says candles help add ambiance for night­time get-togethers with friends, and the freezing temperatures mean that the beer never goes warm. 
Nevada police officer saved from bullet by badge 
LAS VEGAS — A police officer’s badge may have saved his life when it stopped a bullet during an exchange of gunfire in North Las Vegas. 
Police say the 31-year­old officer was patrolling just before 10 p.m. Saturday when he heard shots being fired in an apartment complex. 
While investigating, the officer came upon a per­son with a gun and opened fire. The officer returned fire and was hit. But the bullet hit the badge, and the officer suf­fered only minor injuries. 
The person with the gun fled. 
Police continued to search Sunday for the suspect, who might also be injured. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight wednesday thursday 

IN BRIEF 
The Notre Dame German Club is hosting a traditional “Fasching” Mardi Gras event tonight at 7 p.m. at Legends. Food and music will be provided. Students and faculty are invited and admission is $2. 
An exhibit titled “Expanding the Boundaries: Selected Drawings from the Yvonne and Gabriel P. Weisberg Collection” will be on display at 10 a.m. today in the O’Shaughnessy Galleries West of the Snite Museum of Art. 
Daily Mass will be held at 
11:30 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. today in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
“Catholic and Costa Rican: Bishops’ Discourse over Free Trade” will begin at 12:30 p.m. today. The lecture will be held in Room C103 of the Hesburgh Center. 
The Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering will host a seminar on “Environmental Effects on Tissue-engineered Cartliage” today at 3:30 p.m. in Room 138 of DeBartolo Hall. 
The Institute for Latino Studies will hold “A Place at the Table: A Conversation with Janet Murguía on the Latino Agenda in 2010” today at 4 p.m. in Room 210-214 of McKenna Hall. 
The Bengal Bouts quarterfi­nals will be held at 6 p.m. tonight in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Tickets will be sold for $6. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
friday saturday 


Atlanta 38 / 24 Boston 33 / 26 Chicago 31 / 21 Denver 41 / 23 Houston 56 / 33 Los Angeles 76 / 52 Minneapolis 29 / 4 New York 34 / 27 Philadelphia 34 / 26 Phoenix 77 / 50 Seattle 54 / 38 St. Louis 33 / 19 Tampa 55 / 43 Washington 38 / 26 
Tuesday, February 16, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 




SMC panel analyzes future of Haitian culture 
Misconceptions on national identity discussed; disease, poverty highlighted as areas in need of continued aid 
By CAROLYNN SMITH 
News Writer 
Despite the devastation of the Jan. 12 earthquake, Haiti is a beautiful country with a rich cul­ture, three panelists said Monday. 
A discussion, “Windows on the World of Haiti: Politics, Culture and Faith Perspectives,” was held Monday afternoon in Stapleton Lounge at Saint Mary’s. 
The discussion was sponsored by the Justice Education Program, the Office of Civic and Social Engagement and Campus Ministry. 
The panel included Dr. Karen Richman of Notre Dame’s Kellogg Institute, Dr. Marie Denise Milord, a native of Haiti and fellow with Notre Dame Haiti Program and Sr. Mary Louise Gude, vice president for Mission at Saint Mary’s College. 
The panel discussed the impor­tance of learning more about understanding Haiti and its needs. The panel discussed why extreme poverty persists in the country and that we need to con­tinue to assist Haiti in their cur­rent time of need. 
“As an anthropologist I have been involved with Haitians for more than three decades,” Richman said. 
Richman examined the history of the country of Haiti dating back to Columbus and looked at how the island came to be inhab­ited and how it has changed. She said that today, just like in the past, there have been misconcep­tions about the Haitian people. 
“Thinking about Haiti, we have to put aside a lot of our stereo­types,” Richman said. 
Milord, a native of Haiti, looked back on the country of her child­hood. 
“Looking back, we had a beau­tiful, peaceful country. Back then there was no insecurity. We grew up being proud of being Haitian. And we still are proud of being Haitian but things have changed a lot,” Milord said. 
Milord also spoke about health and the spread of diseases in Haiti. She said lymphatic filaria­sis, commonly known as ele­phantiasis, is widespread in the country. 
Mosquitoes spread lymphatic filariasis from person to person. 
“We still have a lot of people to treat,” Milord said. “We have partners that are committed to fight diseases.” 
Gude said the priests and sis­ters of Holy Cross have made sig­nificant progress in their mis­sions in Haiti, and she said the order has fared well in the after­math of the earthquake. 
“Unlike many communities, Holy Cross only lost one person in the earthquake. I have won­derful memories of Holy Cross priests, the most joyous groups of people I have ever met in my life,” Gude said. 


All three women said they are hopeful that all the money going into the country will assist those in need. 
“I hope also that this money that is available will use the indi­cated avenues to reach the peo­ple,” Milord said. 

Contact Carolynn Smith at csmith02@saintmarys.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 16, 2010 
getting in trouble if the student 
were to help a friend in an 




Schmidt 
continued from page 1 
work with the city, the county and the University to establish plans and obtain funding. 
Schmidt said he also plans to launch an off-campus housing Web site, rent.nd.edu, to help improve off-campus safety. 
“It’s like an ND Today for off-campus housing and sponsored by the University,” he said. “We want students to know where the safe spots are to go and the legitimate places to live.” 
Schmidt and Weber said they will also prioritize improving the community at Notre Dame, including efforts to create a more inclusive atmosphere for the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender and Questioning (LGBTQ) community. 
“A lot of people are concerned with the acceptance of gay and lesbian members of the commu­nity and we are continuing the have conversations about that,” he said. “That is something that is definitely on our radar.” 
Though acceptance of the LGBTQ community will be an ongoing issue, Schmidt said he hopes to make significant changes before April 1. 
“I can say that there will be concrete ways in which we will garner much more student input when it comes to gay and lesbian representation on cam­pus,” he said. 
Schmidt also hopes to pass a medical amnesty resolution at Wednesday’s Student Senate meeting. The medical amnesty policy would protect a student who has been drinking from emergency, he said. 
“A student should not be deterred from helping someone else in an emergency situation,” he said. 
Additionally, Schmidt and Weber said they will work to improve the Notre Dame com­munity by working on student relationships with rectors, fin­ishing the Global Water Initiative and giving recommen­dations for revisions to du Lac. 
Schmidt said they will also work on academic issues during the remainder of their tenure and named discussing the can­cellation of the Economics and Policy Studies department as a priority. 
“There has been thought that the econometrics side should be focused on much more than the policy side,” Schmidt said. “But there are students who have thought that the classes that are offered on the policy side are extremely important in having a well-rounded education. 
“We are huge advocates for not dissolving that department.” 
Other plans include more stu­dent involvement in the selec­tion of the commencement speaker, a continued effort to work with the Transpo bus and taxis to provide safe transporta­tion and recommendations for next year’s pep rallies. 
“Overall, I think a lot of our big issues are pushing for a consistent student voice in a lot of the decisions that are made throughout the University,” Schmidt said. “And we hope that student government can continue to be that channel.” 
Schmidt said he will also work to make the transition for the incoming administration as smooth as possible. 


“Especially now that we have a month and a half, a lot of these projects are not meant to be extremely visible. We just want Catherine and Andrew to be as successful as they can be,” Schmidt said. 
“Once you hit election time, that last month and a half are just making sure that things are ready to be addressed by a new group of students,” he said. 
Schmidt said he was happy with what he and Weber accomplished during their tenure. 
“In regards to our platform, we have been able to accom­plish the majority of our initia­tives,” he said. “Our hope is that students do think that we’ve done our job this year and that they’re confident in student government.” 
Contact Sarah Mervosh at smervosh@nd.edu 
said. “We kept as much as we could but some of the things they wanted to do just would continued from page 1 have driven up the cost of the project. I think we kept the tions around the cluster’s essential things — the group perimeter. work space and reclaiming 
There will also be furniture in some of the wasted space.” the middle of the cluster so stu-Burchett said working with dents can bring their own lap-the students was a success and tops and work he hopes to individually or in bring more stu-



Cluster 
small groups. A dents in to help 
“I think that before it
window will also with renovation 
was really dark.” 
be installed in the and design door that sepa-projects in the rates the cluster Brian Burchett future. from the adjoining “[Working 
Classroom and Computer
East Lounge to with the archi-
Lab Spaces manager
connect the two tecture stu­rooms visually. OIT dents] was 
Burchett said really a lot of the room will be fun and its the more cheerful as well as more sort of thing we’d like to do eco-friendly. again, whether its an architec­
“I think that before it was ture class or an industrial really dark. I think it’s got a design class,” Burchett said. “I 
much  happier  think it adds a  
color scheme,” Burchett said.  “I think it’s got a  certain energy to the project  
“The lighting is bright and the lighting is also  much happier color scheme.”  when we bring in students  can the in  
much more energy  that fashion.”  
efficient now.”  Brian Burchett  According to  
The plan to ren­ovate the LaFortune com­puter cluster  Classroom and Computer Lab Spaces manager OIT  Burchett, the furniture in the cluster had not been upgraded  
began  in  the  for 18 years,  
spring semester of  making  the  

2008. Burchett and other OIT renovation a top priority. staff members worked with “I think when it’s all put architecture students on the together its going to be a much project. happier place to work,” 
“The things the students came Burchett said. up with were really awesome designs. We had to cut some of Contact Irena Zajickova at their aesthetic ideas,” Burchett izajicko@nd.edu 





World & Nation 
Tuesday, February 16, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 


Irish bishops urged to admit blame 
ROME — A top Vatican prelate has told Irish bishops at an extraordinary Vatican summit with Pope Benedict XVI they must admit their own blame in cover-ups of gen­erations of sex abuse of minors, or risk los­ing the faith of Ireland’s Catholics. 
But the former Dublin altar boy who helped expose the scandal doubted that any real hierarchy housekeeping would result from the two days of talks behind closed doors in the Apostolic Palace. 
Benedict’s top aide, Cardinal Tarcisio Bertone, delivered a stinging homily at a Mass before Monday’s talks decrying the “particularly abhorrent deeds” of some in the Irish church hierarchy, although he did-n’t name any names. 


Trains collide in fatal crash 
BRUSSELS — A rush-hour commuter train sped through a red signal and slammed into an oncoming train as it left a suburban Brussels station, killing at least 18 people and disrupting rail traffic in northern Europe. 
Investigations into one the worst accidents on the Belgian rails were likely to focus on whether human error was responsible or if it could have been influenced by the persist­ently freezing temperatures that have iced up the European capital. 
Officials said 80 people were injured, 20 of them seriously in Monday’s crash. The death toll — 15 men and three women — was not considered final. 

NATIONAL NEWS 

Radio host challenges McCain 
PHOENIX — Conservative talk-radio host 
J.D. Hayworth has kicked off his campaign challenging longtime Republican Senator John McCain. 
Hayworth began his campaign Monday with a rally in Phoenix and is set to go on a three-day tour across Arizona. 
“Arizona needs strong, reliable, conservative leadership ... to stand up to the Democrats’ leftist agenda and offer the conservative solu­tions we need to get our country moving again,” Hayworth said, as he positions himself as the race’s reliable conservative. 
Conservatives in Arizona have long been skeptical of McCain, in part, for working with Democrats on such issues as campaign finance reform and immigration. McCain has however evaded political threats from the right and late­ly has staked out solidly conservative positions. 

Snow leads to roof collapse 
ROSTRAVER, Pa. — Heavy snow buildup from recent storms likely contributed to the collapse of an ice rink roof, causing a panicked evacua­tion but no injuries, a fire official and the build­ing’s owner said. 
“We believe it was excessive weight from the copious quantities of snow that we’ve had over the past 10 days,” Jim Murphy, who has owned the Rostraver Ice Garden since 1993, said Monday. “We believe a laminated wood truss broke and that caused two other ones to go and the roof to pancake in that area.” 
The region has gotten more than two feet of snow in the past week and a half. Justin Shawley, assistant chief of the Rostraver Central Volunteer Fire Company, also said snow and ice buildup may have contributed to the collapse. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Hoosier Motor club sees layoffs 
INDIANAPOLIS — The AAA Hoosier Motor Club is closing its emergency road service call center in Indianapolis in a cost-cutting move that it says will eliminate 61 jobs. 
The organization says it is outsourcing its call center operations to sites in Oklahoma City and Glendale, Ariz., with other AAA motor clubs. The layoffs are expected to begin in April and be completed in June. 
Hoosier Motor Club spokesman Greg Seiter says the organization made the move to pre­vent greater increases in its membership costs. He said closing the call center would save about $500,000 a year. 
QATAR 



Clinton:Irana‘militarydictatorship’ 
Secretary wary of Revolutionary Guard Corps gaining too much power 
Associated Press 

DOHA — U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton said Monday that Iran is becoming a military dictatorship, a new U.S. accusation in the midst of rising tensions with Iran over its nuclear ambitions and crack down on anti-gov­ernment protesters. 
Speaking to Arab students at Carnegie Mellon’s Doha campus, Clinton said Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps appears to have gained so much power that it effective­ly is supplanting the govern­ment. 
“Iran is moving toward a military dictatorship,” she said. “That is our view.” 
Last week the U.S. Treasury Department announced that it was freez­ing the assets in U.S. juris­dictions of a Revolutionary Guard general and four sub­sidiaries of a previously penalized construction com­pany he runs because of their alleged involvement in producing and spreading weapons of mass destruc­tion. 
The Revolutionary Guard has long been a pillar of Iran’s regime as a force sep­arate from the ordinary armed forces. The Guard now has a hand in every critical area, including mis-news agency quoted the tion is trying to “send a mes-ship begin to reassert them­sile development, oil head of Iran’s nuclear pro-sage to Iran — a very clear selves.” resources, dam building, gram as saying the country message” that the U.S. is She added: “I’m not pre­road construction, telecom-received a new proposal last still open to engagement dicting what will happen but munications and nuclear week from the United “but that we will not stand I think the trend with this technology. States, Russia and France, idly by while you pursue a greater and greater military 
It also has absorbed the three of the countries trying nuclear program that can be lock on leadership decisions paramilitary Basij as a full-to rein in Tehran’s uranium used to threaten your neigh-should be disturbing to fledged part of its command enrichment program. bors and even beyond,” Iranians as well as those of structure — giving the mili-Iran said that it was study-Clinton said. us on the outside.” tia greater funding and a ing the joint proposal pur-Later, as she boarded her Clinton said the Iran that stronger presence in Iran’s portedly made after the plane for the next stop on could emerge is “a far cry internal politics. country announced last her Middle East trip, Clinton from the Islamic Republic 
Asked if the U.S. is plan-week it had begun enriching said, “The civilian leader-that had elections and dif­ning a military attack on uranium to a higher level ship is either preoccupied ferent points of view within Iran, Clinton said “no.” than previously acknowl-with its internal political sit-the leadership circle. That is 
The U.S. is focused on edged. The ILNA news uation or is ceding ground to part of the reason that we gaining international sup-agency quoted Ali Akbar the Revolutionary Guard.” are so concerned with what port for sanctions “that will Salehi as saying various She told reporters travel-we are seeing going on be particularly aimed at countries have also offered ing with her that it appears there.” those enterprises controlled Iran proposals on a nuclear the Revolutionary Guard is In her Doha appearance, by the Revolutionary Guard, fuel swap, adding that Iran in charge of Iran’s contro-Clinton also said she fore-which we believe is in effect is reviewing all the propos-versial nuclear program and sees a possible break-supplanting the government als. He did not provide any the country changing course through soon in stalled of Iran,” she said. more details. “depends on whether the peace talks between Israel 
Meanwhile, a semi-official The Obama administra-clerical and political leader-and the Palestinians. 


Sen. Evan Bayh will not seek re-election 
vice presidential candidate prospects lies, reaching across the aisle on 
Associated Press 

in 2008, continues a recent exodus issues ranging from job creation and 
WASHINGTON — Sen. Evan Bayh, a from Congress among both Democrats economic growth to fiscal responsibil­centrist Democrat from Indiana, and Republicans, including veteran ity and national security,” Obama said announced Monday that he won’t Democrats Christopher Dodd of in a written statement. “I look for-seek a third term in Congress, giving Connecticut and Patrick Kennedy of ward to continuing to work with him Republicans a chance to pick up a Rhode Island. on these critical challenges through-Senate seat. The announcements have sprung up out the rest of the year.” 
“To put it in words I think most peo-in rapid-fire fashion amid polls show-Bayh, who won the seat to the ple can understand: I love working for ing a rising anti-incumbent fervor and Senate in 1998, attributed his deci­the people of Indiana, I love helping voter anger over Washington parti-sion to the bitter partisan divides that our citizens make the most of their sanship, high unemployment, federal have dominated Congress in recent lives, but I do not love Congress,” deficits and lucrative banking indus-years, though he praised his col-Bayh said at a news conference try bonuses. leagues as hard workers devoting to Indianapolis, where he was joined by Obama thanked Bayh for his years serving the public. his wife and two sons. of public service. “My decision should not be inter-
The departure of Bayh, who was on “During that time, he has fought preted for more than it is, a very diffi-President Barack Obama’s short list of tirelessly for Indiana’s working fami-cult, deeply personal one,” he said. 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, February 16, 2010 
GRC 
continued from page 1 
ents. In these three explana­tions, parents belittle their own accomplishments and respond with anxiety and disappoint­ment to their children’s mis­takes. The child perceives this response as rejection, he said. 
“Many psychologists contend that a normal perfectionism exists,” Lapsley said. “However, large differences exist between this normal and neurotic perfectionism.” 
Several scales of perfection­ism, developed by various psy­chologists, attest to these dif­ferences, he said. 
Donley discussed her experi­ences with perfectionism in the Counseling Center. 
“I see a difference between a goal-oriented person and a perfectionist,” she said. “The goal-oriented individual studies hard for a test and is happy with the grade they receive, while the perfectionist crams and crams and is ultimately disappointed to learn that their friend received a higher score than they did.” 
Donley said many students base their self-esteem on what they do or accomplish and, in turn, place a great deal of pressure on themselves. 
Students need to realize that they can’t do it all and learn to cut themselves a break some­where, she said. 
“In my mind, perfectionism sucks the joy right out of life,” Donley said. “In the end it is our connection to other people and our quality of life that is the most important.” 
Byrnes focused on the value of meditation in coping with perfectionism and competition. 
“Mindfulness is a potentially refreshing and restorative approach,” she said. “It is the idea of being present in the moment.” 
According to Byrnes, more than 40 percent of Americans of all faiths practice meditation at least once a week. 
She led a meditation exercise to demonstrate that virtually all forms of meditation require only four things: a quiet place, a stable posture, a non-think­ing attitude and a focus on breathing. 
“Meditation aids in recogniz­ing the moment-to-moment reality,” Byrnes said. 

Contact Emily Schrank at eschrank@nd.edu 




Wine 
continued from page 1 
Helps International, a non­profit organization that works in Latin American, Lakusta said. 
“I felt drawn to the crisis in Haiti. Eyes on Africa has an incredible network of socially-conscious people who under­stand the power of getting involved — our trouble was coming up with a unique way to help,” Lakusta said. “People only want to donate so much. Now, all we’re asking is that people direct their purchases to a cause.” 
The funds will provide food, shelter and clean water to earthquake victims. 
The wineries will continue donating proceeds through the end of April. 
Indiana wineries donating a portion of the sales are Bacchus Imports, Cecchetti Wine Co., Lion Nathan USA, Precept Brands and Rainier Wine. 
“Essentially, Eyes on Africa Helps Haiti allows people a new way to help this incredi­bly worthy cause,” Lakusta said. “We’ve gotten some flak for branching out in response to the earthquake, but in the true spirit of Ubuntu, it only makes sense that we would respond to the crisis.” 
“Ubuntu,” or the intercon­nectedness of humanity, is the Africa in 2007 after a trip to South Africa. Lakusta and other college students have since used the organization as a springboard to develop and fund aid projects in needy areas of Africa. 
core  philosophy of Eyes  on  
Africa.  
Lakusta founded Eyes  on  

“Eyes on Africa felt drawn to leverage its base of support in an effort to help those affected by the earthquake in Haiti,” Lakusta said. 
Eyes on Africa also recently won a $25,000 grant from Chase Community Giving, a competition hosted on Facebook by JP Morgan Chase Bank. Eyes on Africa compet­ed against more than 500,000 other charities to land in the top 100. 


Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 



Haiti 
continued from page 1 
to share information with stu­dents about how they can assist each organization in the effort to bring aid to Haiti after the recent earthquake. 
Call said although only mone­tary aid is needed at this time, students can still get involved in the relief efforts. 
“Students can become active by planning events or programs that raise money and awareness for Haiti,” Call said. “Some stu­dents have been involved with Friends of the Orphans, and this group is doing excellent work in Haiti.” 
Call said the College has had several fundraisers to benefit the relief efforts. In January, a bene­fit concert was organized and held by members of the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Friends of the Orphans group. Donations were accepted for entrance to the concert, and the funds raised benefited orphans in Haiti. 
Additionally, Call said Saint Mary’s has hosted several Masses where funds were gath­ered during the collection to ben­efit Haiti. 
“It’s important to keep provid­ing relief to Haiti because they are in dire straits. They have the labor force to begin rebuilding, but they need resources,” Call said. “We can provide those resources.” 
The Athletic Department at the College has also helped to collect funds for Haiti relief. A portion of money collected from concession and ticket sales was donated to the relief efforts. 
Call said Friends of the Orphans has also set up a variety of collection jars around Saint Mary’s campus to collect spare change for donation. 
A panel discussion, which fea­tured faculty members from both Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s, was held today to high­light the history and culture of Haiti. 

Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@nd.edu 

The Observer 




Business
Tuesday, February 16, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 

IN BRIEF 
PG&E pushes to amend constitution 
SAN FRANCISCO — Pacific Gas & Electric Co. is funding a June ballot initiative that would amend California’s constitution to make it much harder for cities and counties to offer residents another choice for buying their power. 
The investor-owned utility, which has about 15 million customers in northern and central California, has already spent $6.5 million on Proposition 16, according to state campaign records. The company is the sole source of the initiative’s funding. 
The initiative would require a two-thirds, or super-majority, vote before local governments could create a new form of public power called “community choice aggregation,” or CCA. These public power entities, made possi­ble by state legislation passed in 2002 after the state’s energy crisis, allow cities or coun­ties to buy energy on the wholesale market to sell to residents. 
PG&E says a constitutional amendment is needed to protect taxpayers and ratepayers from possible losses incurred by inexperienced local governments entering the risky power wholesaling business. 

Toyota may increase warranties 
ORLANDO — Toyota Motor Corp. may offer incentives or increase the length of its war­ranties as it tries to recover from an embar­rassing string of safety-related recalls. 
The company has not decided exactly what it will do after it gets past the recalls, which include more than 8 million vehicles world­wide, for sticky gas pedals, floor mats that can snag the accelerator and a software glitch in the brakes of its Prius gas-electric hybrid, said Group Vice President Bob Carter. 
Carter told reporters at the National Automobile Dealers Association Convention in Orlando, Fla., that it is focused on repairing customer cars and restoring their faith in the brand, which has had a reputation for bullet­proof reliability for years. 
Toyota already is offering zero percent financing for 60 months in some of its regions, as well as cash to dealers to help sweeten deals, and Carter said the company may do an incentive campaign once it gets through the recalls. 



Nursery industry hit by downturn 
Landscaping and nursery businesses struggle after housing and economic decline 
Associated Press 

PORTLAND — Like his father, grandfather and great-grandfather, David Niklas feels the quickening of spring as the season ramps up at his wholesale nursery in a farming com­munity south of Portland. Niklas and his workers busily package plants for shipment. 
These days, his flowers and vegetable seedlings have fewer places to go, as the housing bubble burst and the state and national economies flatlined. 
Just three years after reaching a record high of almost $1 billion in sales, Oregon’s nursery industry has plummeted into an his­toric slump. Nurseries are laying off employees, cut­ting costs and foregoing new buildings and equip­ment. 
A few, like Niklas’ Clackamas Greenhouses, have gone bankrupt. 
“The family has poured money into it as we tried to restructure it and make new markets,” said Niklas, who had to file bankruptcy after losing almost half his sales when his primary retailer was bought out. “Commercial lenders aren’t talking to me because I’m coming out of bankruptcy. 
“They aren’t even talking to GM, so why would they talk to a little nursery?” 
Across the country, the nursery and landscaping trades are also facing tough times. 
“You have to eat, but you don’t have to plant orna­mentals,” said Terry McElroy, a spokesman at the Florida Department of Agriculture. 
Florida, which produces 80 percent of the house plants grown in the United States, had about $844 mil­lion in sales of nursery stock in 2007 — the last year figures were avail­able. California, the largest producer, reported $1.6 billion in nursery stock sales in 2007. 
Both states did not have more recent figures, but officials said they had seen a decline in business. They expect the industry to slow­ly recover — but they also expect the belt-tightening will remain, with fewer purchases, less expansion and fewer employees. 

“We know, just by track­ing sales in general, that it’s down but we don’t know how down,” said Jennifer Nelis, spokes­woman for the Florida Nursery Growers Association. “It’s the life cycle of home construction. Plants are some of the last to go in, so the industry is the last to bounce back. 
“Things are starting to get a little better, but it will always lag.” 
In Oregon, the downturn was swift and stunning. 
The rich soil and mild cli­mate of Oregon’s Willamette Valley is ideal for growing plants. And for 18 years, starting in 1990, the nursery industry steadily grew, reaching $988 million in sales in 2007. The nursery com­modity outpaced cattle, then ranked second, by as much as $500 million that year. 
Then the industry slammed into a swarm of trouble: the halt of home and business construction, high transportation costs, financial lending woes and a depressed national econ­omy. Sales plunged 17 per­cent, to $820 million, in 2008. State leaders expect a similar drop for 2009. 
Back in the heady days, Niklas could count on $4 million in annual sales at his nursery in Aurora. Bankruptcy knocked him down and, just as the nurs­ery began to recover under Chapter 12 restructuring, the nation’s economic downturn landed a sucker punch. 
Niklas’ annual sales plummeted to under $2 million. He hasn’t found a commercial lender to help him refinance. He and other nursery owners worry that two tax meas­ures passed by Oregon vot­ers earlier this year — rais­ing the state income tax on upper income individuals, and hiking the corporate minimum tax and taxes on corporate net income greater than $10 million — will push them closer to the financial edge. 

SAUDI ARABIA 

Saudis brace for peak in oil demand 
Associated Press 

JEDDAH — A top Saudi energy offi­cial expressed serious concern Monday that world oil demand could peak in the next decade and said his country was preparing for that even­tuality by diversifying its economic base. 
Mohammed al-Sabban, lead climate talks negotiator, said the country with the world’s largest proven reserves of conventional crude is working to become the top exporter of energy, including alternative forms such as solar power. 
Saudi Arabia was among the most vocal opponents of proposals during the climate change talks in Copenhagen. And al-Sabban criticized what he described as efforts by devel­oped nations to adopt policies biased against oil producers through the imposition of taxes on refined petrole­um products while offering huge sub­sidies for coal — a key industry for the United States. 
Al-Sabban said the potential that world oil demand had peaked, or would peak soon, was an “alarm that we need to take more seriously” as Saudi charts a course for greater eco­nomic diversification. 
“We cannot stay put and say ‘well, this is something that will happen any­way,” al-Sabban said at the Jeddah Economic Forum. The “world cannot wait for us before we are forced to adapt to the reality of lower and lower oil revenues,” he added later. 
Some experts have argued that demand for oil, the chief export for Saudi Arabia and the vast majority of other Gulf Arab nations, has already peaked. Others say consumption will plateau soon, particularly in developed nations that are pushing for greater reliance on renewable energy sources. 
With oil demand only now starting to pick up after it was pummeled by the global recession, some analysts say consumers may have learned to live permanently with a lower level of consumption. 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
page 8 Tuesday, February 16, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 
MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 
NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 

ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 
Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 

SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 
(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 
(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 
The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News Sports 
Madeline Buckley Meaghan Veselik Megan Doyle Michael Blasco Nikki Taylor Andrew Owens Graphics Scene Sofia Iturbe Packy Griffin Viewpoint Lauren Brauweiler 




In memory of Ralph McInerny 
Ralph McInerny, a member of the Notre Dame philosophy department since 1955, died on Jan. 29. Author of more than 40 scholarly books, Dr. McInerny was justly regarded as the preeminent expo­nent of the phi­losophy of St. Thomas Aquinas. He also wrote poetry and more than 80 novels and mysteries. 
The many testi­monials by friends and col-


Charles Rice 
leagues, avail­able online, 
Right or
recount Ralph’s 
Wrong?

life and achieve­ments. They give a glimpse of his personal side. Ralph McInerny, a man of total integrity, was a kind and happy guy with a drily unique sense of humor, a mas­ter of the pun and a family man devoted over 49 years of marriage to Connie who was his match and whom he would occasionally introduce as “my first wife, Connie.” 
This column is neither an obituary nor a eulogy. Rather, the point is twofold. First, to note that Notre Dame students are now disadvan­taged, whether they realize it or not, by their inability to study under Ralph McInerny and to know him in person. We will never see his like on this campus again. 
The second point is to state the obvious. Ralph McInerny still lives — in Heaven (spelled with a capital H because it is a place) as we trust and pray — but also in his writings. Notre Dame students and others can still connect with his thought and wis­dom. Reading McInerny on Aquinas has a practical payoff. The philoso­phy of Thomas Aquinas is called “realist” because it systematically affirms that there is a real world which we can know and understand through our senses and reason. The study of Aquinas is the study of how to integrate faith and reason, which, as John Paul II said, “are like two wings on which the human spirit rises to the contemplation of truth.” (“Fides et Ratio,” preamble.) To advance that integration was Ralph’s mission. He accomplished it, without intimidating or boring the reader, because he wrote easily on two lev­els. He operated without peer in the highest reaches of Thomistic philoso­phy, drawing out its implications and significance. But he also had a rare facility, a gift, for writing with such clarity as to reach and inspire the rest of us. Those of us who are grate­fully “content to retail,” as Ralph put it (“I Alone Have Escaped to Tell You,” 93), the teachings of Aquinas, had — and have — a lodestar in Ralph McInerny. If what we thought was consistent with Ralph’s position, we had a surety (not infallible, he would insist) that we were on the right track. 
We all continue to need the guid­ance of Ralph McInerny. This is espe­cially true for Notre Dame students. Through no fault of their own, they exist in an epistemological free-fire zone where the daily horoscope in The Observer predictably serves a large constituency. McInerny, instead, gave Notre Dame students and others a chance to connect with the real world, known to faith and reason, including the identification of objec­tive right and wrong. Now that Ralph himself is gone, we can connect with those realities by reading his writ­ings, especially on Aquinas. Out of many that could be chosen to provide an introduction to philosophy in gen­eral and to Aquinas in particular, I suggest five for openers. They are systematic, readable, and perhaps most important, short: 
“A Student’s Guide to Philosophy” (Intercollegiate Studies Institute, 1999, 75 pages). A good refresher for anyone. The beginner should read this first. Everyone “does philosophy” in that he thinks. McInerny intro­duces the reader to what passes for modern philosophy and its contrast with the perennial philosophy of Aristotle and Aquinas. He includes one-paragraph biographical inserts on 14 players in the philosophical game, from Socrates to Edith Stein. The reader will learn about the fact-value split between the is and the ought, scientific and pre-scientific analysis, and the essence of our post-Christian era. The book concludes with a remarkable bibliographical essay, “A Student’s Guide to Philosophy,” by Joshua Hochschild, describing dozens of books the read­er can use to go more deeply into the subject. 
“A First Glance at St. Thomas Aquinas: A Handbook for Peeping Thomists” (Univ. of Notre Dame Press, 1989, 208 pages). This primer explains Aristotle’s common sense approach to philosophy, and Aquinas’s use of those ideas to create a common sense foundation for theol­ogy. Realities such as form (what a thing is), matter (what a thing is made of), art and nature, causation, creation and the soul are introduced philosophically and theologically. This book easily explains one of McInerny’s great contributions: his explanation of the role of analogy for St. Thomas. Incidentally, McInerny’s mastery of the pun as a high art form is a use of analogy. 
“Ethica Thomistica: The Moral Philosophy of Thomas Aquinas” (Catholic University of America Press, 1982, 129 pages). “This book attempts to lay out in its main lines the moral philosophy of St. Thomas Aquinas” (ix). McInerny explains the relation between the good and nature 
Love the earth. 

Recycle The Observer. 
in Aristotle and Aquinas. He shows the origin and application of the first principle of practical reason and the natural law: “The good is to be done and pursued and evil avoided” (43) He examines the structure of volun­tary and other human acts, what makes an action good or evil, pru­dence, conscience and the relation between religion and morality. St. Thomas’ “conception of man as a rational agent” (124) is countercul­tural today. Which is a good reason to read this book. 
“Characters in Search of Their Author: The Gifford Lectures, Glasgow, 1999-2000” (Univ. of Notre Dame Press, 2001, 138 pages). “Natural theology,” McInerny says, “means the philosophical discipline which proves that God exists and that he has certain attributes” (5). McInerny’s Gifford Lectures are pre­sented here in two parts. The first, “Whatever Happened to Natural Theology?” examines the eclipse of the reality that reason can know God in a skeptical age that has lost the very concept of truth. Part two, “The Recovery of Natural Theology,” examines the proofs for the existence and attributes of God. It addresses the reality that the fact that knowing that there is a God does not guaran­tee that one’s conduct will be good. It discusses the different kinds of faith, including “the faith of scientists,” (124), and the compatibility of reason and religious faith. In short, there is a “Christian philosophy” (129-32) and McInerny sees himself as a Christian philosopher. He explains how that can be. 
“I Alone Have Escaped to Tell You: My Life and Pastimes” (Univ. of Notre Dame Press, 2006, 167). This autobi­ography tells us about many things, Ralph included. “I picked this book up during a spare hour,” said Michael Novak, “and hours later have scarce­ly been able to get back to anything else.” Each chapter includes a per­sonal narrative set in a fast-moving cultural commentary on a lot of things, including universities, the academics who inhabit them, semi­naries, the writing trade, Europe and its decline, Notre Dame, the Vatican, and so on. I have listed this book last, but you may want to read it first. 
We can profit from any of McInerny’s books, including his fic­tion, all of which is entertaining and has a Catholic tone. In any event, it’s kind of nice to know that Ralph McInerny, in his writings, is still around for us as a mentor. Pray for him and, while you’re at it, pray for Notre Dame. Requiescat in pace. 
Professor Emeritus Rice is on the law school faculty. He may be reached at rice.1@nd.edu or 574-633-4415. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

OBSERVER POLL 
What is your favorite Winter Olympic event? 
Figure skating Hockey Snowboarding Alpine skiing Curling 
Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“You’re supposed to trust friends.You have no reason to be his friend? That is part of the pleasure offriendship: trusting withoutabsolute evidence and then beingrewarded for that trust.” 
David Shore writer 
The Observer 




Viewpoint 
Tuesday, February 16, 2010 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Spooning for solutions 
This letter is a response to Brendan Keeler’s letter (“Cloudy with a chance of meatballs,” Feb. 12). I really like North Dining Hall and its employees. You guys really do a great job pro­viding us with such a wide selection of food everyday. 
However, like Brendan Keeler, I am not happy about the placement of the spoons. Last year, the spoons were together with the forks and knives. All the utensils were right there. Since the beginning of this school year, though, the spoons were oddly separate. It confused the heck out of me, and nobody I talked to agreed with the move of the spoons. It just did not make sense to anybody, and it still doesn’t. 
Well, I tried to get to the bottom of this prob­lem, so I talked to an NDH student employee. He told me the spoons were moved so less peo­ple would use them and NDH would save money on dishwashing. Apparently, a lot of people were taking spoons and not using them. 

This makes a good deal of sense, but I still want the spoons to be back with the rest of the utensils, so why don’t we find some common ground? Put the spoons back, but put a big poster over the utensils with a picture of a talk­ing spoon that says, “Do you really need me?” and under that put a statistic about how many spoons go unused. People will see the sign and think to themselves either, “Yeah, I’ll need a spoon to eat my cereal/soup/pudding,” or “You know what? I really don’t need a spoon today. Thanks, talking spoon!” That way, NDH doesn’t have to spend more money washing unused spoons, and the rest of the student body does­n’t end up with two forks and a knife. It’s a win-win solution that really should happen. 
Kevin Eller 
sophomore Stanford Hall Feb. 15 
WEST VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY 


Why we cannot, and will not, win the ‘War on Terror’ 
In the climactic showdown of the film “V for Vendetta,” the protagonist, V, is pitted against one of film’s main villains. Verbal sparring ensues, and the bad guy, Mr. Creedy, notes that V, facing down a host of heavily armed men with only a set of knives and his “fancy karate Zach gimmicks,” has no 
Viglianco 
chance of surviving the encounter. He ends The Daily with the smug procla-Athenaeum mation “we have guns.” V utters the first of two epic lines: “No, what you have are bullets, and the hope that when your guns are empty I’m no longer standing, because if I am, you’ll all be dead before you’ve reloaded.” 
He ultimately survives the subsequent hail of gunfire, kills all the henchmen and then faces down the shocked villain. Unloading his weapon at V, Creedy exclaims “Die! Die! Why won’t you die?” to which V, who always conceals his face behind a Guy Fawkes mask, replies, “Beneath this mask there is more than flesh. Beneath this mask there is an idea, Mr. Creedy, and ideas are bulletproof.” 
V kills Creedy, but staggers away from the encounter mortally wounded. He dies shortly thereafter, without ever seeing England free from tyranny. However, the chain of events he sets in motion is successful. The English rise up in revolution and succeed. Creedy’s bullets killed V, but they didn’t touch his ideas. 
There are limits to the parallels between the movie and real life. 
I am not arguing that the United States is a dystopian, tyrannical government, or the enemies that we face are somehow heroic figures. The analogy is far from perfect, but there is a lesson to be learned here. Fighting the “War on Terror” solely with bullets is a losing proposition. To be honest, fighting a war on terror, no matter what tactics you employ, is a hopeless exercise. Not because we aren’t capable, but because terror is not something that can be fought. 
Declaring “war” on random nouns is one of the most tired, ineffective techniques employed by American politicians. Terrorism is a tactic. So the “War on Terror” is short­hand for the real conflict we are fighting. 
No, not the wars in Iraq or Afghanistan, though they are certainly related (which you might call the war on al-Qaida or violent Jihadists or Islamofacism or whatever term you prefer). It is a violent struggle against a group of people who are actively trying to harm the U.S. and whose favorite weapon is, you guessed it, terrorism. 
This gives us the “who” we are fighting and, to some degree, answers the related questions of when and where, but fails to answer the most important question that can be asked about any armed conflict — why? 

That answer is not particularly difficult or controversial: We’re fighting to keep America safe. But when we reach this point, we must ask ourselves: What does victory look like, and how do we get there? If the goal is safety, what does that actually mean, and then what strategy do we implement, which tactics do we employ? 
Killing terrorists is useful, perhaps even essential to achieving our goal. But unless we kill every single terrorist, we will never be completely, 100 percent safe. Assuming this were possible (which it is most certainly not), we wind up facing the same problem faced by Mr. Creedy. We can kill all our ene­mies, but they live on in the form of their ideas and ideology. 
As a functioning organization, al-Qaida is a mere shadow of the powerful group that blew up embassies in Africa, the U.S.S. Cole in Yemen, and World Trade Center and Pentagon on Sept. 11. We’ve decapitated its leadership, killed hundreds (perhaps even thousands) of its operatives and driven Osama bin Laden into perpetual hiding and virtual impotence. But as a brand name, as source of inspiration and a call to arms, al-Qaida lives on in the hearts and minds of many disaffected fanatics angry at the U.S. 
Unless one believes systematic genocide of Islamic people is a viable option, then there is a limit to what can be accomplished through force of arms. The short answer, as this column’s headline states, is the current “War on Terror” cannot be won. We will never be completely safe — not from terror­ism nor from any number of other threats we face. 
That doesn’t mean we should give up or resign ourselves to the inevitability of anoth­er Sept. 11. 
We can strive to move as close to our goal as possible by taking reasonable security precautions, attempting to discredit and reduce the appeal of al-Qaida’s ideology, and yes, by eliminating terrorists and disrupting their operations. But we must always remember, no matter how hard we try, we cannot completely eliminate the threat. 
Coming to terms with this fact will prevent us from taking steps (such as trading tyranny for security), that might make the parallels to “V for Vendetta” all too real. 
This column first ran in the Jan. 28 edition of The Daily Athenaeum, the daily newspa­per serving West Virginia University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

Conference’s courageous dialogue 
I would like to second Ms. Healy’s applause (“Truth, Identity, and Edith Stein,” Feb. 15) for the organizers of the Edith Stein Conference that occurred this past weekend. This conference for the past five years has attempted to bring Catholic teaching to bear on some of the most pressing cul­tural issues that college men and women are experiencing here on campus. I was fortunate to have the opportunity to attend the session that was headlined by Melinda Selmys. Walking away from that session, I could not help but con­clude that Ms. Healy’s main concern was met by this session: dialogue between the Catholic position and those who came in protest truly did take place. 
Ms. Healy mischaracterizes the Conference’s treatment of those who protested the session. While Notre Dame Security Police was called to the scene, Ms. Healy failed to mention some important facts. Those who protested decided to stand inside the lobby of McKenna Hall. Unannounced and unex­pected, the protestors handed out leaflets to all who entered the building. The leaflets spelled out the protestors’ concern with Ms. Selmys speaking at the conference. All those in attendance at the conference either peacefully accepted the leaflets or respectfully declined without incident. Neither of the above actions taken by the protestors was objectionable in the least. The protestors then decided to recite selections of “queer poetry.” These selections were acerbic, vulgar, crude and vitriolic. The protestors were not initially interest­ed in engaging in rational “dialogue” with those in atten­dance. Instead, the protestors resorted to profanity-laced lyrics that, to my best estimation, were aimed merely at attacking the sensibilities of those in attendance — including young children — and attempting to disrupt the conference. 
While Ms. Healy’s letter leaves the reader with the impres­sion that the protestors were disbanded by NDSP or other­wise “taken away,” the Conference organizers and attendees opened their doors and invited all the protestors into the ses­sion. Most, if not all, of the protestors entered the Main Auditorium of McKenna Hall and respectfully listened to Ms. Selmys and the rest of the panel that was speaking at the session. Of particular note, Ms. Selmys began her talk by respectfully addressing each sentence contained in the pro­testors’ leaflet. One of the main features — if not the main feature — of Ms. Selmys’ presentation was a challenge to Catholics. During the question and answer period, the protes­tors who had been invited into the session by the Conference organizers posed each question. After the session concluded, Ms. Selmys continued in conversation with some of the pro­testors. 
While Ms. Healy might not have selected Ms. Selmys to speak at the conference, Ms. Healy’s glaring omission of key facts misguides the readers of The Observer. The organizers of the Edith Stein Conference, Ms. Selmys, and the rest of the panel should be applauded for their courage in putting on this panel discussion that was open for all to attend, honest and challenging for all in attendance. Those who protested should be applauded for accepting the Conference organiz­ers’ invitation to attend the session. The protestors should also be applauded for engaging in this conversation in the spirit of good faith and respect once the protestors entered into the auditorium. 
If what is described above is not an instance of “coura­geous dialogue,” I do not know what would be. 
Philip Lashutka 
law student off campus Feb. 15 


Reinstate spoons 
Hats off to Mr. Brendan Keeler for his chilling expose of the glaring inadequacies that plague North Dining Hall (“Cloudy with a chance of meatballs,” Feb. 12). Most pressing to both me and the majority of the University is the unnecessary and punitive segregation of spoons from the general utensil popu­lation. 
Mr. Keeler argues that “this sort of segregation is some­thing we cannot stand for at the University,” and I applaud his crystal clear understanding of justice. Legal precedent exists for his flawless argument. Must I remind North Dining Hall that separate but equal is inherently unequal, as deter­mined unanimously by the Warren Court? The spoon is a majestic utensil, unparalleled in its ability to deliver satisfac­tion during the consumption of steamed vegetables and cere­al alike. Give those fine utensils the location and respect they deserve. 
James Kachadoorian 
sophomore Siegfried Hall Feb. 15 
The Observer 




Scene
page 10 Tuesday, February 16, 2010 

closet this spring: flow­ers, zippers, trenches and wedges. These items are key for the ladies who want to blossom like those gorgeous tulips lining the Grotto in April. 
This year, floral doesn’t necessarily have to mean literal flower details. Marchesa shows this best with her blooming textured tops and gowns, which bring the princess version of every woman ’s grungy Cinderella to light with every twist and turn 
of fabric. M a r c h e s a ’s tucks and folds of silk and wool in deep hues will have you panting for the spring rains if they mean that sunshine and M a r c h e s a ’s designs are on their way. 
Floral accents in and of them­selves will also brighten any 
outfit. Try extravagant headb ands, necklaces or full patterns on sweeping dress­es for a soft feminine look. When going for a floral look on a full ­length dress, stick to pastels and save the bright jewel tones for a solid piece to avoid being too over-the-top. Forever 21 is stocked with pieces in each genre to bring this vision to life. 
The fall gave birth to the zipper, winter saw its teen years, and come spring, the zipper will finally reach adulthood. It’s a fantastic statement maker, especially when strategically placed, and will give an edge to even the softest of outfits. For a touch of irony, pair a motorcycle jacket with a 

By ADRIANA PRATT 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Oh the weather outside is frightful, but the fashion magazines are so delightful! Since we’ve no place to go, open them up and get the spring style down low! Spring is right around the corner — or maybe the block — but regardless, it’s time to start planning because, as roommate likes of rain boots, so make sure to invest in one for both practical and fash­ionable reasons. Once 

the snow melts and the ladies emerge from their cave-like dorms this year, expect to see campus awash with Audrey Hepburn look-a-likes. 
No matter which way you slice it, wedges are in this spring. The staple, chunky espadrilles, will be parading down South Quad once the sun comes out, but they won ’t be marching alone. Expect to see new additions 
of saddle leather and black suede to the mix for an excep ­tionally bold taste of the wide variety soon to adorn female feet. 
For the in-between stage of winter and 
spring, feel free to match a pair of chunky neutral -tone socks with thick -heeled sandals. InStyle sug ­gests sticking to thin fabrics with dainty patterns to avoid overdoing the look. 
Brighten those obnoxiously gray skies hanging over campus by explor­ing the upcoming trends. There ’s only 17 days left until Spring Break (but who’s counting) so utilize your shopping time wisely. Treat yourself to a little ring this spring and you won’t regret it! 

Contact Adriana Pratt at apratt@nd.edu 
floral blouse, skinny jeans and heels and watch men become even more confused and entranced by the crea­ture that is woman. 
Zippers don’t just have to stay on clothes. Heels, rings and even sun­glasses — check out Alexander Wang for Linda Farrow Zipper Sunglasses 
— will feature these details in spring 2010 so make sure you ’re on your game when you hit the streets. 

my Brigh t—colored
Four essentials are a

to say, “prior prepara-trench coats screamed tion prevents poor per-must for stocking spring last year, but formance,” and there is your closet this this year it’s all about no room for error this muted tones in nudes, 
spring: flowers, 

season! blacks and whites. Four essentials are a zippers, trenches and These jackets will look must for stocking your wedges. great with a classy pair 
The Observer 



Scene
Tuesday, February 16, 2010 page 11 

By CAITLIN FERRARO 
Assistant Scene Editor 
It’s no “Love Actually,” but director Gary Marshall’s “Valentine’s Day” is a heartwarm­ing film with multiple, interconnected sto­ries about love. A star-studded cast comes together to portray Los Angelinos trying to navigate love. But just like any box of assorted chocolates there are a few bad ones in the bunch. 
Ashton Kutcher and Jennifer Garner are absolutely fantastic as the arguable leads of the film, and on -screen best friends. Kutcher’s Reed is a hopeless romantic and florist who proposes to his workaholic girl­friend Morley, (Jessica Alba) but things are not as picture perfect as he thinks. 
Meanwhile, Garner plays Julia, a lovable teacher who is head over heels for her heart surgeon boyfriend Dr. Harrison Copeland played by Patrick Dempsey. Unfortunately, this doc is no McDreamy, and drama and humor ensue. Kutcher and Garner are charming and endearing. They are the best parts of this film, and deservedly spend the most time on screen. 
Supporting actors that shine are the always lovely Anne Hathaway and the goofy but adorable Topher Grace as a couple struggling with their new relationship. Hathaway is hysterical as an adult phone entertainer. 
Meanwhile, Bradley Cooper holds his own with romantic comedy queen Julia Roberts as two passengers on a long plane ride. It is refreshing to have Roberts back in the rom­com sphere, but sadly she is only on the screen for all of six minutes. The pair are natural together, and it is nice to see Cooper play a good guy for once. 
But with the good comes the bad. In the case of the Taylor Lautner-Taylor Swift duo, the very, very bad. Lautner doesn’t do much. He mostly stands there, next to an hyperac­tive Swift. He doesn’t even do what he did best in “New Moon,” which is to take off his shirt, because his character is too shy. Fail. And Swift should absolutely stick to singing. An accomplished young actress would be able to pull off her self-absorbed, immature homecoming queen character. However, she is simply annoying. If we had less of the Taylors and more of the better teen actors like Emma Roberts and Carter Jenkins who are considering having sex for the first time, the film would have benefited. Their rela­tionship has considerably more substance but we do not get the chance to see enough of them because of the large cast. 
The bottom line is that there are simply too many characters in “Valentine’s Day” that certain storylines felt rushed while oth­ers were simply unnecessary. If you just had a little bit more information here or there things might have made a bit more sense, and the pacing would seem more even. But there are surprising twists and turns along the way that help the keep the viewers interested. 

If you’re looking for the magic of “Love Actually” look elsewhere. The comparison is unavoidable, but perhaps Christmas is more romantic than Valentine’s Day or everything is sexier with a British accent, but “Love Actually” is leagues above this film. 
But that is not to say this film is without merit. 
A huge benefit to the large cast is that viewers have a greater opportunity to relate to a particular storyline or character. George Lopez provides comic relief as Kutcher’s employee and friend. Eric Dane is intriguing as an aging quarterback with a secret. And Jamie Foxx is funny as a sports reporter forced to do puff pieces on Valentine’s Day. He hates Valentine’s Day almost as much as his sports publicist con­tact, the neurotic Kara (Jessica Biel) who organizes an “I hate Valentine’s Day” party every year. She worries that no one will show up, but as smart viewers we know that there will probably be a few broken hearts that arrive late. 
Romantic comedies rarely showcase love of all ages, but this film gets the opportunity. Bryce Robinson is adorable as Edison, the lovesick fifth grader determined on deliver­ing flowers to his crush. And Shirley MacLaine and Hector Elizondo demonstrate that love is timeless as an old married cou­ple. The accomplished actors bring a refreshing sensitivity to the film. 
Sure, the film is predictable at times, but any viewer should expect that heading into the theater given the title and trailer alone. What they might not expect is the surpris­ingly well-done job of portraying the varying emotions that one might feel when February 14th rolls around. Love, lust, bitterness, joy, regret and deceit are all on the menu. The characters range from those who are deeply in love, to those who think they are in love, to lying cheaters who never deserved any love. But that’s the beauty of this mosaic of different stories. There is something for everyone to enjoy, even if it just to see Swift be ridiculous. 
Contact Caitlin Ferraro at cferrar1@nd.edu 



page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, February 16, 2010 
NBA 

Slumping Mavericks shuffle roster with trade 
Associated Press 
DALLAS — The Dallas Mavericks would like to host another big-time NBA event this season. So they made some changes. 
With the record-breaking All-Star weekend in their back yard over, the Southwest Division-leading Mavericks will begin the final 30-game stretch of the regular season Tuesday night looking much different than they did when losing five of seven games before the break. 
A seven-player weekend trade brought two-time All-Star guard Caron Butler, 7-foot center Brendan Haywood and guard DeShawn Stevenson to Dallas from Washington. Often promising and disappointing Josh Howard was sent with Drew Gooden and two others to the Wizards. 
“Now I don’t know how many of you out there are going to pick us in a seven-game series against the Lakers, but in our opinion the guys in that locker room, we’re ready to lock horns with anybody,” Mavericks president of basket­ball operations Donnie Nelson said. “We feel like this solidi­fies us a little bit.” 
Enough to think about the possibility of playing Los Angeles in a Western Conference final? Or getting back to the NBA Finals four years after blowing a two-game lead and losing in six games to Miami? 
“We’ll find out,” owner Mark Cuban said. “You just never know until you get out there and play, and if we can get back to where we were early in the season and get healthy. ... I think we’re better.” 
The Mavericks (32-20) still lead their division despite a slump before the break that included a 36-point loss to Denver, one of the three teams ahead of them in the West, in their last game. 
“We were struggling here for a month, so we are excited now to have some new guys,” All-Star forward Dirk Nowitzki said. “It’s not going to be an easy ride, but we are looking forward to coming together quick and hopefully finish the season strong.” 
The Mavericks will have to assimilate the newcomers without a practice. The three could only watch Monday’s workout because of a paper­work delay, coach Rick Carlisle said. Assuming the all-clear comes Tuesday morning, the former Wizards will go through a shootaround and then straight into their first game with Dallas at Oklahoma City. 
An opening stretch of four games in five nights against probable playoff teams contin­ues Wednesday night at home against Phoenix. After a day off, another back-to-back set comes at Orlando and home against Miami. 
“It’s a situation that’s not ideal, but we’re going to make it work,” Carlisle said. “These guys will adjust.” 
Butler, who has averaged 
16.9 points a game in his eighth NBA season, is expected to move into the Mavericks’ starting lineup. Jason Terry, who last year got the NBA sixth man award as the league’s top reserve, is expect­ed to move back into that role after starting the past 11 games. 
Terry said he could accept going back to the bench, and Butler said that “meant a lot.” 
“Me and (Terry), we are familiar with one another,” Butler said. “He’s always been like a big brother to me. He’s just making the transition real smooth for me.” 
Kobe Bryant of the Lakers, who because of a sore left ankle didn’t play in the All-Star game before the record crowd of 108,713 at Cowboys Stadium on Sunday night, said Butler will be a good addition for Dallas. They were teammates with the Lakers in 2004-05. 
“You put him on a contender and I’m telling you, you’re going to love him,” Bryant said. ‘He’s tough as nails.” 
Haywood provides needed depth in the middle behind Erick Dampier, who missed three of four games before the break. That forced Gooden, now headed to his eighth team in eight seasons, to fill that role much more than planned when Dallas signed him last summer. 
“We were running into prob­lems. Damp is having problems with his knees and requires rest every now and then, and we really were in a spot with­out having a shot-blocker behind him,” Cuban said. “Drew did a great job, he laid it out there every game for us to try to go in as a five. Going into the season, we thought that would work, and it just didn’t play out as planned.” 
The Mavericks also envision using Dampier and Haywood together to match up against other teams using two big men. 
Howard had spent his entire career with Dallas, playing 431 games since being the 29th overall pick in 2003. The team’s second-longest tenured player behind Nowitzki, Howard played only 31 games with nine starts this season after being limited the first couple of months while recov­ering from offseason surgery on his left ankle. 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Izzo trying to steady the ship as No. 11 Sparty struggles 
Associated Press  the Big Ten title chase. Izzo — in his 15th year as a  against the Badgers and didn’t play against Illinois. But he  plained his then No. 2-ranked Spartans were “a little bit self- over to things on the court.” Last year’s Michigan State  
EAST  LANSING,  Mich.  —  head coach  — expects to  run  returned to the starting lineup  ish” and “fat and sassy.”  team  suffered  surprising  
Tom Izzo can get as emotional  into trouble somewhere during  and  scored  24  points  in  But Izzo was relatively calm  home-court  losses  to  
as  any coach in the country,  a long, grueling season. Even  Saturday’s 65-54 victory at  during the three-game skid. He  Northwestern and Penn State  
but he pretty much kept his  when  the  Penn State.  noted Purdue had lost three in  before winning the Big Ten  
cool  while  Michigan  State  Spartans  were  Defense was a  a row earlier in the season and  title and storming to the NCAA  
struggled through a recent three-game losing streak. A quick check of the Big Ten  on their way to a school record 9-0 start to Big  “It hasn’t been the smoothest plane ride  problem during Michigan State’s slide. But the  Ohio State had dropped three of four. Texas and North Carolina, ranked as early sea- championship game, which it lost to North Carolina. Michigan State lost three of  
standings shows there’s not  Ten  play,  Izzo  or the calmest  Spartan defense  son national powerhouses, also  four in early 2008 but made it  
much reason to fret: the No. 11 Spartans remain tied for first place after snapping their skid with a victory at Penn State over the weekend. And Izzo says there are signs things could come together in time for another Michigan State run  said he wouldn’t be surprised if the eventual c o n f e r e n c e champ finishes with five league losses. Michigan State  waters. But sometimes those are good things. They bring you together and they get everybody on the  was top-notch while holding Penn State with­out a field goal for more than six minutes dur­ing a decisive s e c o n d -h a l f  have had rough stretches. Izzo held Lucas out of a December practice because he wasn’t happy with his leader­ship. Lucas has responded as the late-season stretch begins. Izzo benched Durrell Summers, one of the team’s top  to the NCAA tournament’s round of 16. The Spartans have been in the Final Four five times in the past 11 seasons, and no other team has made it to college basketball’s showcase more frequently since 1999.  
when the NCAA tournament rolls around in March. “I think we’re headed in the right direction, I really do,”  plays at Indiana (9-15, 3-9) on Tuesday, the end of an eight-game  same page sooner or later. And that’s the ultimate goal.”  stretch. “We lost three games and we just had to  scorers and athletes, for the second half of the Purdue loss because he wasn’t happy with his effort. Summers played  Izzo worried the 2009-10 Spartans were rated too highly in preseason polls. He figured the team would miss Travis  
Izzo said Monday. “It hasn’t  stretch  that  bounce  back,”  with  more  fire against Penn  Walton’s  leadership  and  
been the smoothest plane ride or the calmest waters. But sometimes those are good  included six road games. The Spartans lost  Tom Izzo Michigan State coach  Lucas said after the Penn State victory. “We just  State. Guard Korie Lucious wasn’t allowed to make the Penn State trip because he  defense and Goran Suton’s inside presence more than most observers realized.  
things. They bring you together  c o n s e c u t i v e  have  to  keep  missed classes but is expected  But  now  it’s mid-February  
and they get everybody on the  games  at  playing  and  back for the Indiana game.  and Izzo sees signs of improve- 
same page sooner or later. And  Wisconsin and Illinois and at  keep defending.”  “He’s  holding  everybody  ment  that  could pay off in  
that’s the ultimate goal.”  home to Purdue during that  Izzo works hard to keep his  accountable in every aspect of  March.  
Michigan State (20-6, 10-3  stretch  — none of which Izzo  team from getting complacent  life on and off the court,” for­ “Are we good enough to fin- 
Big Ten) is tied  on top of the  considers a “bad” loss, particu­ when times  are  good and to  ward Draymond Green said of  ish it out strong and make  a  
conference with No. 9 Ohio  larly given the health of Kalin  keep perspective  when  its  Izzo. “It’s only going to help us  run?  I  think  we’re  good  
State entering this week. No. 4  Lucas,  his  jet-quick  point  struggling.  as the year goes on. If you hold  enough to,” Izzo said. “Are we  
Purdue, No. 14 Wisconsin and  guard.  After a 13-point victory over  people accountable for things  ready yet? I think we still need  
unranked Illinois also  are  in  Lucas  injured  an  ankle  Toledo in November, Izzo com- off the court, all it does is roll  some improvement.”  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

utilities downstairs apartment 2 bed-UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Across the desert of stars to drink And ichor, the avid stenches of Of sluggish surf among the rocks, a room kitchen bath livingroom din-not go it alone. Notre Dame has the world Immortal bodies. moanFOR RENT ingroom and laundry room. many resources in place to assist Our mouths had soaked Of dreamy forgotten divinity calling 
References and lease required you. If you or someone you love In the strange sentences we made Their long train clicked and sighed and fading gradrentals.viewwork.com Please call 574-274-2110. needs confidential support or assis-While they were asleep: a pollen-Through the gulfs of night between Against the windows of a town. ——————————————— ——————————————— tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at tinted the planets Inside 2 apartments available near down-1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For Slurry of passion and lapsed And came down through the The train, a flash town SB 129 N. St. Louis Blvd more information, visit ND's web Intention, whose imagined evening fog Of dragonfly wings, an antlered (between Jefferson St. &amp; site: http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu Taste made the savage deities hiss Of redwood canyons. From the train brow. Colfax St.) Both apartments 1000 ——————————————— and snort. At sunset, fiery warehouse windows SF no deposit required $350.00 per If you or someone you care about Thirsty and languorous after their Along a wharf. Then dusk, a gash of Black night again, and then person per month includes utilities has been sexually assaulted, we long black sleep In the lightless carriages, a smell of neon: After the bridge, a palace on the upstairs apartment 2/3 bedroom can help. For more information, visit The old gods crooned and shuffled snake Bar. Black pinewoods, a junction water. kitchen bath and livingroom $375.00 Notre Dame's website: and shook their heads. And coarse fur, glands of lymphless crossing, glimpses per month per person includes http.csap.nd.edu Dry, dry. By railroad they set out breath ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
PERSONAL 


Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Tuesday, February 16, 2010 
page 13 
NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball AP Rankings 
team previous 
1 Kansas 1 2 Kentucky 3 3 Villanova 4 4 Purdue 6 5 Syracuse 2 6 Duke 8 7 Kansas State 9 8 West Virginia 5 9 Ohio State 13 10 Georgetown 7 11 Michigan State 10 12 New Mexico 15 13 Gonzaga 16 14 Wisconsin 11 15 Texas 14 16 BYU 17 17 Vanderbilt 22 18 Butler 18 19 Pittsburgh 25 20 Tennessee 12 21 Temple 21 22 Baylor 24 23 Wake Forest NR 24 Texas A&M NR 25 Richmond NR 
NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Coaches’ Poll 
team previous 
1 Kansas 1 2 Kentucky 2 3 Villanova 5 4 Purdue 6 5 Syracuse 3 6 Duke 7 7 Kansas State 9 8 West Virginia 4 9 Gonzaga 11 10 Georgetown 8 11 Michigan State 10 12 Ohio State 16 13 Butler 15 14 BYU 17 15 New Mexico 19 16 Wisconsin 13 17 Texas 14 18 Tennessee 12 19 Vanderbilt 24 20 Temple 21 21 Pittsburgh 23 22 Baylor NR 23 Texas A&M NR 24 Northern Iowa 18 25 Wake Forest NR 



around the dial 
NCAA Men’s Basketball 
Michigan State at Indiana 7 p.m., ESPN 
NBA Basketball 
Knicks at Bulls 8 p.m., WGN 
NBA 


LeBron, Eastern Conference defeat West 141-139 
Associated Press 

ARLINGTON, Texas — The largest crowd ever to watch a basketball game roared from all corners of Cowboys Stadium, and the two superstars on the court smiled widely. 
Nope, not Dwyane Wade and LeBron James. 
Try Jerry Jones and Mark Cuban. 
They partnered to create a basketball spectacle that had never been seen before, one that ended with the Eastern Conference’s 141-139 victory over the West on Sunday night in the All-Star game. 
“It’s an historical event,” Wade said. “It’s going to be in our minds and our hearts and thoughts for a long time. Dallas and the MVP. Jerry Jones and Mark Cuban really put on a fabu­lous event.” 
The crowd of 108,713, packed with the usual celebrities the NBA All-Star game always attracts, watched Dallas native Chris Bosh make the win­ning free throws with 5 seconds left. The West had a chance to win it, but Carmelo Anthony’s 3-point attempt came up short. 
“To be in front of 108,000 fans, that was actually what it was, that was not a false number. You could look up in the stands, and there was not a seat open,” James said. “To be part of history is something that you always wish and dream for.” 
The largest cheer of the night came after the third quarter, when Mavericks owner Cuban and Cowboys owner Jones came onto the court to announce the record basketball crowd, which was also the largest in the $1.2 billion build­ing’s short history. 
Wade had 28 points and won MVP honors, just as he did after leading Miami to victory in the 2006 NBA finals in nearby Dallas. He added 11 assists, six rebounds and five steals. 
“To be able to perform in front of a crowd like that, I know that. I know I can do it, I’ve done it before,” Wade said. “So just to be able to put on a show like that and to get the win, and to make key plays down the stretch was what I like. 
“I’ve had a little luck in Dallas. Of course, 2006 is very, very memorable, something I dreamed of doing for a long time, win­ning the NBA champi­onship and I was lucky 
enough  and  blessed  
enough  to  win the MVP  
there,”  Wade  said.  “To  

come and do it again is special.” 
James had 25 points, and Bosh had 23 points and 10 rebounds. Anthony scored 27 points, and Dirk Nowitzki — who Kobe Bryant had predicted would win MVP honors — had 22. 
IN BRIEF 

Getzlaf leads Ducks to 
win over Edmonton 
EDMONTON, Alberta — Ryan Getzlaf made a strong case to keep his spot with Team Canada, scoring twice and adding two assists in his first game back from a sprained left ankle to help the Anaheim Ducks beat Edmonton 7­3 on Sunday. 
Saku Koivu, Corey Perry, Scott Niedermayer, George Parros and Bobby Ryan also scored for Anaheim, which trails Calgary by two points for the final playoff spot in the Western Conference as the NHL heads into the Olympic break. 
Ryan Potulny, Ethan Moreau and Lubomir Visnovsky scored for the NHL-worst Oilers. 
Getzlaf banged a rebound past Jeff Deslauriers off a scramble on a power play at 5:27 of the third period, then added another with the man advantage off a pass from Niedermayer with 3:02 left. 
Monahan to miss spring 
training with Yankees 
NEW YORK — The Yankees will be without a familiar face when the defending World Series champions begin trickling into Florida for spring training this week. 
The team announced Sunday that longtime head trainer Gene Monahan is taking a medical leave of absence to deal with “a significant illness” that could keep him out through the start of the regular sea­son. The nature of his illness was not disclosed. 
The 65-year-old Monahan hasn’t missed spring training in 48 years, including the past 38 as the trainer in charge of the storied Yankees franchise. He’s the longest-tenured active head trainer in the major leagues, a mantle he assumed when Dave Pursley retired from the Atlanta Braves after the 2002 sea­son. 
Monahan began his athletic-train­ing career in 1963. 
Marlins, Ross unable to 
avoid salary arbitration 
ST. PETERSBURG, Fla. — Florida Marlins outfielder Cody Ross has gone to salary arbitration, asking for $4.45 million rather than the team’s offer of $4.2 million. 
Arbitrators James Oldham, Margaret Brogan and Howard Edelman are expected to issue a decision Tuesday, a day after hear­ing arguments. 
Ross hit .290 with 24 homers and 90 RBIs last season, when he made $2.3 million. 
Players and owners have split the two decisions this far, with Milwaukee outfielder Corey Hart winning ($4.8 million) and Tampa Bay outfielder B.J. Upton losing ($3 million). 
Three hearings equals the record-tying low total of cases that went to arbitrators last year, when Florida’s Dan Uggla and Washington’s Shawn Hill won and Tampa Bay’s Dioner Navarro lost. 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, February 16, 2010 
OLYMPICS 

Defago ends Swiss medal drought with gold 
cute and ski well,” Miller said. and set the pace for the other 
Associated Press 

“Obviously it would’ve been race favorites, who started WHISTLER, British Columbia great to be a little faster. I was between 16th and 22nd. He said 
— Didier Defago broke a two-psyched. I skied hard.” the course was darker when he decade Swiss drought with gold Having won two silvers at the skied than for the other in the Olympic downhill Monday 2002 Salt Lake City Games, favorites later on. and American Bode Miller Miller becomes the first “That’s what ski racing is broke his personal streak of American to win three medals about,” he said. “It’s always a major championship failures by in Alpine skiing at the Olympics. mix. There definitely was light taking the bronze. Phil Mahre, Tommy Moe, Picabo changing in the very beginning. 
Defago sped down the Dave Street and Diann Roffe each It got progressively better, but Murray course in 1 minute, won two medals. definitely when I went the mid­
54.31 seconds to match coun-Miller’s medal is also the first dle part was dark. That’s where tryman Pirmin Zurbriggen’s feat for the U.S. in the men’s down-Aksel pulled eight-tenths back in the downhill at the 1988 hill at the Olympics since Moe on me. That’s the way ski racing Calgary Games — the last time took a surprise gold at the 1994 goes. But I was happy with the a Swiss man had won an Lillehammer Games. way I skied.” Olympic gold in any Alpine At 32 years and 4 months, Miller started his run a little event. Defago became the oldest man earlier than planned because 
Married with two young chil-to win the Olympic downhill, the previous skier, Andrej Sporn dren whom he often brings three months older than of Slovenia, missed a gate early along to races, Defago had Frenchman Jean-Luc Cretier on. never won a medal at an when he won at the 1998 Rocking back and forth as a Olympics or world champi-Nagano Games. team member psyched him up onship. His lone World Cup vic-Mario Scheiber of Austria fin-with screams and yells in the tory came in a super-G in Val ished fourth, local favorite Erik starting house, Miller began his inside the blue line painted on were Steven Nyman of Gardena, Italy, way back in Guay of Canada placed fifth and run solidly, tucking at every the snow to outline the course. Sundance, Utah, in 20th and 2002 before he won the two Cuche was sixth. opportunity on the upper gliding Somehow, the big Norwegian Andrew Weibrecht of Lake most prestigious downhills of Cuche, who leads the World sections. managed to shift his weight Placid, N.Y., in 21st. the World Cup season on back-Cup downhill standings and was Miller was nearly a full second back onto the race line and Weibrecht was the fourth to-back weekends last year in skiing with a broken right — 0.97 — faster than the previ-crossed two-hundredths ahead starter and radioed up a course Wengen, Switzerland, and thumb, was only 0.06 behind ous leader, David Poisson of of Miller. report for Miller. Kitzbuehel, Austria. Defago through the final check-France, at the second check-Defago was the 18th man on “It’s dark and it’s bumpy, but 
“The conditions were perfect point, with the crowd turning point. course and was significantly otherwise there’s no issues,” for me,” Defago said. “I knew I silent at how tight it was, but Always one of the most excit-faster than Svindal and Miller Weibrecht said. “We can go would do well, but I never Cuche inexplicably lost three-ing skiers to watch, Miller on the top. Then he fell behind straight at this thing. The only expected to do this well. I had a tenths through the final turns. flailed his arms out to maintain before posting one of the fastest thing you’ve got to be aware of great year with Wengen and “It was really close and I can’t his balance on the turns and speeds — 117.2 kph (72.83 is that the speeds are up every-Kitzbuehel. A medal had to really understand why I was jumps, drawing “oohs” and mph) — on the bottom and where.” come eventually for me.” slow on the finish part,” Cuche “ahs” from the crowd, and maintaining a slim advantage The race was originally sched-
While teammate and pre-race said. “Normally, I’m a good fin-pulled himself back into his through coaches’ corner, a uled for Saturday but was post-favorite Didier Cuche was still to isher. But when I saw the crowd aerodynamic tuck for the sweeping 180-degree right turn poned for 48 hours due to the ski, Defago was already aware really quiet down here, I knew straightaways. before the finish that is the mix of warm temperatures, he had laid down a special run that was not like I wanted. I’m Perhaps still not 100 percent run’s most challenging section. heavy snowfall, rain and fog and nearly fell over backward going to enjoy the night with physically after skipping sum-While Guay performed that have wreaked havoc with into the padding lining the finish Didier. He deserved it and it’s mer training while he debated admirably, two other Canadians the Alpine schedule at the area as he celebrated with both good for the Swiss nation.” his future, Miller lost nearly half with high hopes struggled. Vancouver Games. arms in the air. In addition to his performance a second on the bottom of the Manuel Osborne-Paradis was Conditions were still overcast 
“He just nailed it right there. in Salt Lake City in 2002, Miller course, and appeared on the even with Svindal before he got Monday but the temperature fell He didn’t have an easy year won a full load of world champi-verge of exhaustion as he had a a little wild halfway down and below freezing overnight, mak­because of the other guys who onship medals before he went bit of a tough time landing the lost a big chunk of time. Robbie ing the course hard enough for were taking the glory all the bust in Turin four years ago, final jump leading into the finish Dixon — who has a house in skiers to dig their edges in and time,” said Marco Buechel, the making more headlines for his line. Whistler — fell on the bottom. maintain control. Liechtenstein skier who trains late-night partying than his ski-In the finish area, Miller’s U.S. downhill captain Marco Flat and dim light created with the Swiss team. ing. mouth curled up into a smile as Sullivan of Squaw Valley, Calif., some visibility problems, “Everybody on our team is real-Miller also failed to win a he pumped his head on his fists also fell after losing his balance although there was none of the ly happy for him.” medal at the 2007 and 2009 in satisfaction or — perhaps in midair through a jump on the mid-mountain fog that has 
Defending overall World Cup world championships and con-more likely — frustration, since bottom section. He placed his plagued the Alpine venue the champion Aksel Lund Svindal of sidered retiring over the sum-he probably already knew it right ski nearly perpendicular to past several days. Norway took silver, a slim 0.07 mer before the Olympics lured wouldn’t be enough for victory. the snow and then sat back as The men race again in the seconds behind, and Miller was him back for a shot at redeem-Starting 16th, Svindal trailed he landed and slid through a super-combined Tuesday, with only 0.09 behind Defago. ing himself. Miller through each checkpoint gate. Miller among the favorites for 
“It was a huge relief to exe-Miller was the eighth starter and landed the final jump just The other American finishers another medal. 

CYCLING 

French issue arrest warrant for Landis for data hacking 
Associated Press  Landis coach and adviser, the prosecutor’s office said.  self.” Earlier  Monday,  France’s  “Landis used the hacked files for his defense, that’s how we  On July 20, 2006, the Tour’s 17th stage, Landis started  
PARIS — A French judge has  Landis denied the hacking  anti-doping chief Pierre Bordry  discovered the whole scheme,”  more  than  eight  minutes  
issued a national arrest war- allegations in an e-mail to the  had mistakenly described the  Bordry said. “He wanted to  behind leader Oscar Pereiro  
rant  for  U.S.  cyclist Floyd  Los Angeles Times on Monday  arrest warrant as internation­ show that the lab made mis- after losing the yellow jersey to  
Landis in connection with  a  and said no warrant has been  al. Granoux stressed that the  takes in the handling of the  the Spaniard the previous day.  
case of data hacking at a dop­ served against him. He said he  warrant is only applicable on  tests.”  But Landis produced an amaz­ 
ing laboratory, a prosecutor’s  wasn’t  sure  French soil. It is  The French judge issued the  ing ride during the mountain- 
office said.  whether Baker  possible in such  warrant  Jan.  28  because  ous stage to cut Pereiro’s lead  
Judge Thomas Cassuto, who  had received  a  cases to issue an  Landis did not respond to  a  to 30 seconds before taking the  
is based in the Paris suburb of Nanterre, is seeking to ques­tion Landis about computer hacking dating back to September 2006 at the Chatenay-Malabry lab, said  warrant. “I can’t speak for Arnie, but no attempt has been made to formally contact  “I can’t say I’m happy with this news because I would have preferred there was  i n t e r n a t i o n a l warrant at a later date if needed. The American cyclist chal- summons in November, Bordry said. “Apparently the judge traced the case back to the begin­ning,” Bordry said. “I can’t say I’m happy with this news  title. Landis’ samples taken after that stage revealed a testos­terone/epitestosterone ratio of 11:1 — nearly three times the 4:1 limit.  
Astrid Granoux, spokeswoman for Nanterre’s prosecutor’s  me,” Landis said in the e- no Landis case.”  lenged the drug test results  because I would have preferred there was no Landis case.”  The Chatenay-Malabry lab is accredited by the International  
office. The laboratory had uncovered abnormally elevated  mail. “It appears to be  Pierre Bordry  before an arbi­tration hearing  After discovering the hack­ing, the French lab upgraded  Olympic Committee and World Anti-Doping Agency. It helped  
testosterone levels in Landis’  another case of  French anti-doping chief  in California  —  security to protect its computer  develop  tests  for  the  
samples collected in the run-up  fabricated evi­ claiming  that  systems.  endurance-enhancing drug  
to his 2006 Tour de France vic­ dence  by  a  computer  files  Landis’ urine samples were  EPO.  
tory, leading to the eventual  French lab who  were mishandled  tested at the lab and found to  Landis returned to competi­ 
loss of his medal.  is still upset  a  and  erased  —  contain elevated testosterone­ tion at the Tour of California  
Cassuto also issued a national  United States citizen believed  but he was stripped of his Tour  to-epitestosterone levels, less  last year. He recently competed  
warrant for Arnie Baker, a  he should have the right to face  de France title and banned for  than a week after he won the  in a minor race staged in New  
retired doctor and longtime  his accusers and defend him- two years.  Tour de France.  Zealand.  

Tuesday, February 16, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
OLYMPICS 

Bruised Vonn sets quickest pace in training runs 
Associated Press 
WHISTLER, British Columbia — The bumpy and jarring downhill training course didn’t do Lindsey Vonn’s badly bruised shin any favors. 
Calling it “probably the worst course for my shin,” the American Alpine star finished the more testing upper section in the fastest time of the morning training runs Monday — 1 minute, 30.75 seconds, or 0.39 seconds faster than teammate Julia Mancuso. 
Skiing the much shorter bot­tom section after the men’s downhill finish, Vonn finished in 18.52 seconds, good for 20th and 0.73 seconds behind Sweden’s Anja Paerson. 
Those two runs now behind her, Vonn wouldn’t mind see­ing Tuesday’s downhill train­ing session postponed by weather — giving the shin yet another day to heal. 
She was fine — all things considered — until landing on the last jump. 
“That really hurt,” Vonn said. “It’s throbbing really bad.” 
If race officials decide to only run half of the course Tuesday — just to give the skiers more time on the slope 
— Vonn may elect to skip it. 
She’s already fulfilled the requirement, according to race protocol, of all skiers running the course on the same day at least once. So she’s all set for the women’s downhill scheduled for Wednesday — bumps and all. 
“The course here is just so bumpy,” Vonn said. “I honest­ly was pretty shocked. It’s one thing when you inspect it and you’re like, ‘OK, this is going to be a little rattley.’ But it was jarring. It was a fight just to make it down the whole way.” 
Vonn bruised her right shin during a pre-Olympic practice in Austria on Feb. 2. She stayed off skis for more than a week, but tested the injury — with encouraging results — in an unofficial slalom training run Sunday. 
The shin was a little tender Monday morning, but that was to be expected. And it didn’t seem to hurt her skiing that morning. 
“After skiing four runs of pretty good intensity slalom on salted snow, with the con­ditions the way they are here now, I think even if you had healthy shins, you’d probably have a sore shin today,” said Thomas Vonn, who serves as a coach and adviser to his wife. “She’s happy to be where she’s at, as opposed to where she was a couple of days ago.” 
Vonn took painkillers and placed numbing cream on her shin — the same treatment she’ll more than likely use the rest of the time in Whistler. 
Asked if he thought his wife would still race in all five events at the Olympics, Thomas Vonn said: “She’s scheduled to do it. I don’t see any reason why she’d pull out of any of them.” 
Lindsey Vonn had no idea she had been fasteest in the morning downhill run. In fact, the news came as quite a shock since she almost skied out in certain parts. 
“It wasn’t bad skiing; it was just fighting to make it down skiing,” Vonn explained. “I’ve never run a course this bumpy before. It’s not a feel-good course. It’s not a fun course. It’s a just stick-your-nose-in­it-and-make-it-down (course). If you’re aggressive and not sliding, I think you’ll be fast. I know what I have to do. I know how to ski it. It’s just a matter of fighting through the pain.” 
Before Monday, the women’s downhill training run was wiped out three times by weather. The delays due to fog, snow and rain have defi­nitely helped Vonn but it’s left the course in less than stellar condition. 
“It’s so bumpy,” said Maria Riesch, who finished the upper section of the training run 1.79 seconds behind Vonn, a top rival and good friend. “It’s just a fight from the top to the bottom, and that’s not so much fun. But everybody has to do it. I hope they maybe get it a little bit smoother for the race.” 
U.S. skier Stacey Cook was 20th after the top section, 
1.89 seconds behind Vonn, but that was secondary to her. The morning run for Cook was all about easing her mind after her crash during Thursday’s abbreviated train­ing schedule. She was the sec­ond — and final — women’s skier to go through the course, before training was halted because of thick fog and low visibility. 

Cook said she remembers nothing about the crash, which left her with pain and stiffness but no serious injuries. 
“But just knowing that it happened and knowing to go back out there and do it again, it was so hard,” said Cook, who’s from Mammoth, Calif. “My body feels fine. I can work through all that, and there was so much adrena­line. Just mentally I was so nervous in the start.” 
In the shorter afternoon run, Cook had a solid per­formance, finishing 0.59 sec­onds behind Paerson’s time. 


page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, February 16, 2010 
NASCAR 

Pothole nearly spoils NASCAR’s marquee race 
Associated Press 
DAYTONA BEACH, Fla. — There’s nothing NASCAR can do to overcome the embarrass­ment that comes when a pot­hole nearly swallows the biggest race of the year. 
That pesky hole in the pave­ment stalled the Daytona 500 two different times for more than two hours total, and cre­ated the unforgettable image of yellow-clad track workers slop­ping a pink puddy-like filler into a torn patch of pavement at Daytona International Speedway. 
Television viewers across America changed their chan­nels, while fans in attendance streamed toward the gates. 
They had every right to turn away. 
But they’re probably regret­ting it now. 
Tuning out of Sunday’s sea­son-opening race meant miss­ing a finish that will go down as one of the best in NASCAR his­tory. There were three attempts to run a two-lap sprint to the finish, and the racing that led to Jamie McMurray beating Dale Earnhardt Jr. was simply breathtaking. 
Greg Biffle saw his shot at victory wiped out by the first of two late cautions, setting up a green-white-checkered over­time attempt. Kevin Harvick shoved Martin Truex Jr. to the lead, then nearly wrecked the field when he darted in front of Biffle for his own attempt at the win. The second late cau­tion snatched Harvick’s near-win away, and set up a sequence of racing that left seasoned NASCAR viewers speechless. 
McMurray and Harvick raced each other for the lead, with McMurray using a huge push from good friend Biffle to claim the lead. Carl Edwards made it three-wide behind them to tighten the pack, and give Earnhardt a chance to make some eye-popping moves through the field. 
Earnhardt, a 12-time Daytona winner, dodged and darted his way through traffic. He shoved his Chevrolet between Biffle and Clint Bowyer, nearly losing control before sliding out into his own clean air. McMurray, who had put some space on the pack, suddenly had Earnhardt breathing down on his bumper. 
He’d driven from 10th to sec­ond in one lap, and no one could believe what they were witnessing. 
“Like most people, he came out of nowhere for me,” win­ning car owner Chip Ganassi said. “When I saw him coming, I was like “Is he on the lead lap? Where’s he coming from?’ My point being, he came from nowhere, and good for him.” 
Earnhardt, mired in a hor­rendous slump that has tested his confidence and frustrated his enormous fan base, ran out of time to chase down McMurray and had to settle for second. The joyous McMurray, embarking on a second chance of sorts with Ganassi, twice broke down in tears in a show of raw emotion that clearly defined the natural reactions NASCAR has asked its drivers to express this season. 
Did the unbelievable sequence of on-track racing and off-track excitement save the race? Absolutely. 
Is it enough to overlook the pothole that nearly ruined the race? Maybe. 
The next few weeks are criti­cal for NASCAR, which is work­ing overtime to re-energize the fan base through a series of tweaks both on and off the track. NASCAR officials have made competition adjustments to answer driver complaints about the car, and there’s been a series of rule changes that are clear responses to fan frus­trations. 
The most notable recent change came just last week, when NASCAR recognized that finishing races under a caution flag was far from satisfying to a fan who had invested several hours into an event. The exhi­bition Budweiser Shootout that opened Speedweeks ended with Harvick coasting to the finish under yellow, protected from having to hold off a last-lap challenge. 
So NASCAR adjusted the rule, agreeing to allow up to three opportunities to finish the race under green-flag conditions. The new rule was tested Sunday, twice, and undoubtedly helped script the finish. 
NASCAR deserves a pat on the back for making the right calls, including the one to do everything possible to patch the Daytona hole so the race could run the full 500 miles. 
Problem is, though, casual sports fans probably aren’t considering the big picture. Instead, they are left with the image of a pothole being repaired in the middle of NASCAR’s showcase event. 
To those fringe followers, it was amateur hour. Again. 
NASCAR has certainly made its share of mistakes over the last decade, and there are crit­ics who are simply unable to forgive and forget. Some of those gaffes have created a stereotype that NASCAR is some sort of three-ring circus that, try as it might, just can’t get anything right. 
This isn’t one of those cases, though. 
Foreseeing a pothole was impossible, and ignoring it once it developed wasn’t an option. 
NASCAR could have simply called it a day after the first patch failed, sending everyone home 39 laps short of a com­plete race. Instead, it stood strong during an unfortunate circumstance and refused to waver in an embarrassing moment for the sport. 
The end result was one heck­uva race. 
Sorry if you missed it. 
OLYMPICS 

Ohno relishes furious nature of short-track skating 
Associated Press  bronze medalist J.R. Celski, skating in his first meet since a  uct of both those things.” Ohno has three more events  
VANCOUVER,  British  bloody, gruesome crash at the  at the Vancouver Games to pass  
Columbia  — Apolo Anton Ohno  U.S. trials in September, got  Blair  — two individual races,  
skated past the referee, who  bronze.  plus the relay.  
was trying to sort out another  It’s  the  first  time  the  “I’ve  come  prepared,  more  
wacky short track finish.  Americans have put two skaters  than I’ve ever prepared for any­ 
“C’mon, man,” Ohno said,  on the podium in an Olympic  thing in my life,” Ohno said.  
practically begging as he broke  short track event.  “I’m in a very, very good place.”  
into a grin.  “We thought Korea would get  Ohno eliminated Canadian  
No need to worry, Apolo.  not only gold, but silver and  favorite Charles Hamelin in the  
Olympic medal No. 6 was in  bronze,” Lee said through  a  semifinals with a daring inside  
the bag.  translator. “Short track is  a  move, drawing groans from  
The American who made the  game that is very unpredictable.  many of the red-clad fans in the  
soul patch fashionable  — even  Even though you’ve had a lot of  packed  house  at  Pacific  
the women were wearin’ em  — practice, you don’t know what’s  Coliseum. But there was still  
pulled out a silver medal in the  going to happen.”  plenty of red-white-and-blue  
1,500-meter  final  Saturday  The officials took a while to  cheering for the 27-year-old  
night when two South Koreans  sort  things  out.  Toting  an  American, who is practically a  
took each other out on the final  American flag that had been  hometown favorite at these  
turn,  allowing  Ohno  to  tie  tossed to him right after the  games. AP  
Bonnie Blair for most medals  race, Ohno skated past the head  Vancouver is just a three-hour American Apolo Ohno, 66, leads the pack during the men’s  
won by a U.S. Winter Olympian.  referee to make a good-natured  drive north of suburban Seattle, 1500-meter short-track fnals on Saturday in Vancouver.  
Korea still got the gold, which  plea for his silver medal to  where  Ohno  was  born  and  
went to Lee Jung-su, out front  stand up.  raised by a single father, getting  put three skaters in the final,  he  stumbled.  Once  Ohno  
and out of the trouble that gob- Even after the results were  his start in skating with wheels  and it looked as  though they  regained his balance, it looked  
bled up his teammates. But  posted on the scoreboard, Ohno  under  his  feet  rather  than  would sweep the medals when  as  though the Koreans  were  
Ohno had no complaints about  seemed to have trouble believ­ blades.  all of them shot ahead of Ohno  gone.  
being the runner-up, especially  ing it was official. He kept star­ “It feels like home soil to me,”  on the final lap.  Then came the final turn.  
when he swerved into the final  ing at the scoreboard, lingering  he said. “We just have so much  “Myself and everybody here  Lee was out front and avoided  
turn in fourth, all hope of  a  at the edge of the boards to  support in the crowd.”  thought it  was  finished and  trouble. But Lee Ho-suk cut in  
medal appearing lost.  make sure all was good.  Yuki Ohno cheered on his son  done  with,”  Heiden  said.  on Sung while trying to set up a  
“Pretty intense,” Ohno said.  It was.  and afterward took plenty of  “Typical short track. It’s never  last-second pass  on Lee, and  
“This is what this sport is all  Ohno,  who  now  has  two  pictures with his cell phone.  over ‘til it’s over. It’s sort of deja  they both slid into the padded  
about.”  medals of each color, moved  “We  didn’t  come  here  to  vu with what happened in Salt  barrier,  their  medal  hopes  
In short track, the most freak- past Eric Heiden as the most  break the record. It’s kind of a  Lake City with Bradbury.”  dashed in a heap. Ohno skated  
ish of Olympic sports, it’s never  decorated American male at the  bonus to him,” his dad said.  Ohno nearly crashed when he  right on by, as did Celski.  
over until everyone’s across the  Winter Games and also claimed  “His confidence level is just way  got tangled up with Sung, actu­ “I skated a  very aggressive  
line  — and, sometimes, even  the mark for most short track  up there.”  ally sticking out his right arm to  race. I was battling with some  
then it’s not over.  medals since the wild-and- Ohno won his first medal at  fend off the South Korean  —  of the best skaters in the world.  
Disqualifications are common,  wooly sport joined the Olympic  the 2002 Salt Lake City Games  and perhaps keep himself up as  It was a crazy race,” Ohno said.  
and Ohno thought he might  program in 1992.  when a crash on the final turn  
benefit from one after jostling  Heiden, now the team doctor  took out every skater but one,  
with Sung Si-bak with  a  few  for U.S. Speedskating, told The  Australia’s Steven Bradbury,  
laps to go, even grabbing at the  Associated Press he was “glued  who coasted across the line as  
South Korean  to  keep from  to the television” while working  perhaps the flukiest gold medal- 
falling.  in the training  room  at the  ist ever. Ohno, his leg gashed by  
Turns out, Ohno didn’t have to  Olympic Village.  a skate blade, crawled across  
rely on the judges.  “The thing that really sets him  the line for a silver.  
The Koreans took themselves  apart is he’s been doing this for  Talk about symmetry.  
out, costing themselves a sweep  a number of years,” Heiden said  Ohno’s  sixth  medal  was  
of the medal podium. Instead,  when reached on his cell phone.  claimed under similar circum­ 
the Americans wound up with  “We’ve learned to appreciate  stances, though this time he  
both spots behind Lee. Ohno  what dedication and hard work  didn’t have to spill any blood.  
was  second, and 19-year-old  he’s had to put in. He’s a prod- The powerful South Koreans  

Tuesday, February 16, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Henry helps Kansas defeat Texas A&M 

Associated Press 
COLLEGE STATION, Texas — Xavier Henry scored 12 points, including several free throws down the stretch, to help top-ranked Kansas escape with a 59-54 win over No. 24 Texas A&M on Monday night. 
It’s the 11th consecutive victo­ry for Kansas (25-1, 11-0 Big 12) and breaks a 16-game home winning streak for Texas A&M (18-7, 7-4). 
Kansas trailed for much of the second half and was behind by four before going on a 7-2 run, capped by a free throw by Henry, to take a 55-54 lead with 3 1/2 minutes remaining. The Jayhawks pushed the lead to 57­54 moments later when Bryan Davis was called for goaltending on a shot by Cole Aldrich . 
Henry hit two more free throws with about 30 seconds remaining to seal the win. 
Marcus Morris and Aldrich added 12 points apiece for Kansas. 
Texas A&M was led by David Loubeau’s 17 points and Donald Sloan had 15. 
The Jayhawks let the Aggies hang around in this one because of poor 3-point shooting and trouble with offensive rebound­ing. Kansas made just one of 10 3-pointers and was outrebound­ed 20 to eight on offense. 
Texas A&M took a 48-44 lead with about eight minutes left after David Loubeau hit the first of two free throws. He made a jumper on the previous posses­sion. 
Kansas cut the lead to two points when Sherron Collins made his first basket of the game — after missing his first six — on a jumper in the lane seconds. 


The Aggies led by one before a layup by Loubeau made it 41-38 with about 13 1/2 minutes remaining. He was fouled on the shot, but missed the free throw. Tyrel Reed hit Kansas’ first 3­pointer of the game less than a minute later to tie it at 41-all. 
Kansas got ahead several times early in the second half, with one coming when Markieff Morris hit two free throws to make it 38-37 with about 15 minutes remaining. 
Texas A&M’s Dash Harris sat out the last 10 minutes of the first half after falling hard to the court after his shot was blocked. He had to be carried off the court by his teammates. He returned for the second half and finished with six points and four rebounds. 
Kansas jumped out to an 8-2 lead but Texas A&M went on a 14-4 run to take a four-point lead with about 13 minutes remaining. There were several lead changes after that before a jump shot by Loubeau put the Aggies ahead 32-30 at halftime. 
UConn 84, Villanova 75 
PHILADELPHIA — A “must win” for Connecticut turned into just another upset of a Big East top 10 team. 
Kemba Walker scored a career-high 29 points and the Huskies continued the four-day run of losses by Big East top 10 teams, beating No. 3 Villanova on Monday night. 
Connecticut (15-11, 5-8) was coming off a 60-48 loss to Cincinnati, one of its worst offen­sive performances in years. The Huskies hit the 48-point mark less than four minutes into the second half. 
The loss to Cincinnati came in Calhoun’s first game back after a 3 1/2-week medical leave. He call it “embarrassing.” This wiped away some of that feeling. 
“We looked like a UConn team tonight,” he said. “It was a terrif­ic win for us at a terrific time against a terrific team.” 
The Huskies became the fourth team to knock off one of the Big East’s top teams in a four-day period. 
On Friday night, then-No. 5 West Virginia lost to Pittsburgh in triple overtime. On Sunday, Louisville beat then-No. 2 Syracuse and Rutgers beat then-No. 7 Georgetown. 
The Huskies continued the upset trend by shooting 67 per­cent from the field and 80 per­cent from the free throw line in the second half while holding Scottie Reynolds of the Wildcats (22-3, 11-2) to four of his 18 points. 
“I’m so proud of them,” Calhoun said. “To use the word embarrassing is a tough thing to say, but I meant it.” 
The Huskies have five games left in the regular season and the Big East tournament to try and turn around a disappointing sea­son. Connecticut, which had lost five of six, remained 12th in the 16-team league and ended a six-game road losing streak in the Big East. 
“I told them let’s start from the jump. That’s what we did,” said Walker, who was 6 of 10 from the field. “We put together a 40­minute game. Probably the first one of the season, to tell you the truth. It was great.” 
Recruits 
continued from page 20 
also announced that seven recruits signed letters of intent during the early signing period, including 

one 
defender, one mid ­field/defender, four mid ­fielders and one attack. All 

of 
the recruits save one hail from the traditional lacrosse hotbed of the East Coast, especially the Northeast — areas in which Notre Dame has had a strong recruiting presence. 

The Irish were chosen to finish third in the league in a preseason poll of the con­ference’s coaches, but were one of three teams that far 


outpaced 
the rest of the league alongside regular-No. 8 spot in a preseason season defending champion national poll, giving the Georgetown and Syracuse. team weighty expectations In addition, both the for the season to come. national coaches and media The Irish will be tested slotted Notre Dame in the this spring, as eight of the 


teams they face are in the top 20 in the nation. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph@nd.edu 

NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Huskies win 65th straight 
Associated Press 
NORMAN, Okla. — Tiffany Hayes scored 20 points, Maya Moore added 18 points and 10 rebounds and top-ranked Connecticut got a rare second-half scare before pulling away to beat No. 11 Oklahoma 76-60 Monday night and extend its unbeaten streak to 65 straight games. 
Making their last foray outside Big East play before the postsea­son, the Huskies (26-0) trailed in the second half for only the sec­ond time this season, but Moore had six points during a 13-2 response as UConn regained control. 
Oklahoma (18-7) rallied back from a 14-point, first-half deficit and led with 16 minutes left before Connecticut clamped down and started forcing the Sooners to settle for jump shots. 
Danielle Robinson scored 18 points to lead Oklahoma, and Amanda Thompson added 16 points and 13 rebounds. 
The Sooners had UConn trail­ing the latest in a game this sea­son — by about a minute — but then started scuffling on offense. They were trailing by three when they had to force shots on back-to-back possessions with the shot clock running down, and the Huskies didn’t afford them any more opportunities. 
Tina Charles hit a foul line jumper, Caroline Doty nailed a 3-pointer from the left side and Moore connected on a jumper in the lane after a scrum for an offensive rebound as Connecticut’s lead grew to 51-41 with 10:29 left. Oklahoma was still within 10 with under 6 min­utes left before the Huskies inched away to win by double digits as they have throughout their winning streak — the sec-ond-longest in women’s basket­ball history. 
The Huskies also hold that record with 70 in a row from 2001 to 2003. 
“The more aggressive we got, the more confidence we got,” Connecticut coach Geno Auriemma said. “We’ve been a little bit unconfident lately and it shows up in our shooting.” 
Charles had 19 points and nine rebounds and Kalana Greene had 14 points for UConn. Oklahoma went 10-for-17 on free throws, with most of the misses coming when the Huskies were well within reach. 
Connecticut got off to its usual fast start, opening its first dou­ble-digit lead in the first 7½ minutes and going up 26-12 when Greene got behind the defense for an easy layup with 
8:39 left in the first half. 
Sooners coach Sherri Coale called timeout immediately after that basket and deployed a 2-3 zone that slowed a Huskies’ offense that had been creating layups with relative ease. She went to a 1-3-1 a few posses­sions later and disrupted UConn even more, with Oklahoma scor­ing the final eight points of the half to get within 32-30. 
Thompson took an inbounds pass from Robinson right under the basket and banked in a layup, then bounded the full length of the court as though the Sooners had just won the game on a buzzer-beater. 
It was only the fourth time since the winning streak began that an opponent was within two points of Connecticut at half­time. 
Oklahoma went ahead for the first time on Thompson’s jumper with 18:10 left in the game and Robinson was able to answer baskets by Greene and Moore to put the Sooners up twice more. Greene then scored off a base­line inbounds pass to put UConn back on top 40-39 with 15:46 left, and the Huskies started pulling away from there. 
Moore followed with a 3-point­er in transition and, after Thompson’s layup for Oklahoma, Connecticut reeled off eight straight points to restore its double-digit cushion. 
Florida State 69, Georgia Tech 59 
ATLANTA — Florida State did-n’t play like one of the ACC’s best shooting teams in the first half Monday night. Then the No. 10 Seminoles got their offense going. 
Jacinta Monroe and Alysha Harvin led a second-half rally as Florida State (22-4, 8-2) defeat­ed No. 19 Georgia Tech to hand the Yellow Jackets their first home loss of the season. 
Monroe had 12 of her 14 points in the second half and Harvin scored 11 of her 14 after intermission as Florida State hot 
45.5 percent compared to just 29.2 percent in the first half. 
“She put the first in us and told us to go out and play,” said Monroe of coach Sue Semrau’s halftime talk. “We had to adjust our heart and our effort.” 
The Seminoles, down by 10 points in the first half, broke the game open with a 14-4 run mid­way in the second half, taking a 56-45 lead with six minutes left. The Yellow Jackets, who had won 12 straight at home, never got closer than five points the rest of the game. 
“Georgia Tech is one of the most athletic, best defensive teams we’ve seen,” Semrau said. “They came out throwing the first punches, we responded.” 
Brigitte Ardossi scored 23 points to lead Georgia Tech (20­6, 6-4). Sasha Goodlett added 16 points and Alex Montgomery, who reached 1,000 points for her career, had 13 rebounds to go with 10 points. 
Florida State gave up 13 offen­sive rebounds to the Yellow Jackets in the first half and couldn’t get the ball inside itself. But the Seminoles had 20 points in the paint during the second half and also hit four of nine shots from behind the 3-point arc. 
“We were on our heels a little bit,” Semrau said of the first-half offensive struggles. “Sometimes pressure (defense) will do that. In the second half, we figured out how to attack it and the kids did a great job in the offense.” 
Courtney Ward had 10 assists and joined Florida State team­mate Chasity Clayton with nine points. The 6-foot-5 Monroe had nine rebounds and three blocks. 
Georgia Tech shot just 32.8 percent, with Montgomery going 2 of 14, and was 2 of 13 on 3­pointers. Deja Foster shot 1 of 7 and had only two points. 
“Our bigs played well, but I thought our perimeter players needed to step up,” Yellow Jackets coach MaChelle Joseph said. “Alex did a tremendous job on the boards, but her shot just wasn’t falling. We can’t win a game without our key players, especially against a team like Florida State.” 
Georgia Tech was ahead 22-12 with less than five minutes left in the first half thanks to a 15-2 spurt, but Florida State cut the Yellow Jackets’ lead to 26-23 at halftime with an 11-4 run. 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, February 16, 2010 
Qualifer 
continued from page 20 
tus was her first honor of the kind after she finished 20:43 at the NCAAs to be Notre Dame’s top finisher. 
Connelly attributes Ferguson’s success to her work ethic and dedication to her sport over 
“She comes every day
the past four Connelly said. years. ready to work hard “We expect 
“She is the some great 
and get better, and 
type of leader things for 
challenges her
who inspires Lindsay in her teammates teammates to do the the coming with her hard weeks.” 
same.” 
work and con-This week­sistency, ” e n d , Connelly said. Tim Connelly Ferguson has “She comes Irish coach the potential yet, the Big East indoor cham­pionships. Last season, Ferguson finished eighth in the 3,000-meter. This season, Connelly anticipates that Ferguson will thrive at the Big East championships and at other upper echelon meets to follow. 
“She is very, very fit and excited about competing 
against the 
best people in 
the country,” 
every day ready to work hard and get better, and challenges her teammates to do the same.” 
Ferguson’s efforts have already paid off this indoor season as she has set two NCAA qualifying marks. Ferguson qualified in the mile with a time of 4:45.92 and in the 3,000-meter race. Five Irish athletes and one women’s distance medley team have set NCAA qualifying marks so far in the indoor season. 
Notre Dame will compete this weekend at its most com­petitive and challenging meet to add anoth­
er NCAA qualifying mark to the two already recorded. 
“I would look for her to add a [NCAA] qualifier in the 5000­meters as well as improve her 3000-meter mark this week­end,” Connelly said. “If she can do that, she will make a huge contribution to our team’s effort.” 
Ferguson and the Irish travel to New York this weekend to compete in the Big East Championships. 
Contact Kaitlyn Murphy at kmurph28@nd.edu 
Schrader 
continued from page 20 
coming off of a close game with Connecticut,” McGraw said. “I think they are proba­bly feeling really confident, I’m sure they are talking about how they let it get away and how they now have a chance to beat a really good team coming to their own court.” 
Countering this kind of antic­ipated intensity from a team will not be easy, but McGraw hopes to accomplish it by sticking to the fundamentals she has preached all year 
Doubles 
continued from page 20 
After seeing how the Irish bounced back after their loss to North Carolina, the amount of experi ­menting needed might be minimal . In the team ’s last two matches, Notre Dame responded to the pressure brilliantly, beat ­ing Kansas 7-0 and then taking what could be a season -defining victory from No. 16 Michigan. 
“The Michigan match was a really good match for us,” Louderback said. “We competed really well. 
long. 
“We have to match their intensity, defensive pressure, and rebounding,” McGraw said. 
The Red Storm also have a lot of quickness and speed, and McGraw hopes her team can stack up with a combina­tion of motivation and athleti­cism. St John’s is led in scor­ing by sophomore forward Da’Shena Stevens, who is averaging 13.9 points per game. 
“They are really athletic. They are very, very quick team, they drive the ball well,” McGraw said. “They just really get to basket and they are 
It was good to see us compete in a way we haven’t.” 
Notre Dame pulled out a 4-3 victory after trailing virtually the entire match with a few gritty perform ­ances by Irish players to knock out the Wolverines. 
“We were behind pretty much the whole match, ” Louderback said . “Shannon Matthews espe ­cially hung in there after being down and Chrissie McGaffigan also pulled out a close match.” 
Also winning for the Irish were senior Kali Krisik and sophomore Kristy Frilling. Frilling, the 30th -ranked player in going to be a really big chal­lenge for us defensively.” 
The way to counter an ath­letic team like this is to win the turnover battle, which has been a part of McGraw’s game plan all year long. 
“Our philosophy this year has been to cause a lot of turnovers. We always like to cause turnovers, to press,” McGraw said. “That has been our game-plan all year long.” 
The Irish will look to stay one step ahead of the Red Storm tonight at 7 p.m. in Queens, N.Y. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
the nation, improved her record to 6-0 this year and has been a staple at the top of the team’s line up. 
“She ’s always been so good, a real model of con­sistency, ” Louderback said. 
As the Irish look ahead, they are hoping to use the momentum from the victo­ry over Michigan and their time off to propel them into a busy string of home matches . Notre Dame will face Illinois at 1 p.m. at the Eck Tennis Pavilion. 
Contact John Helms at jhelms2@nd.edu 


Tuesday, February 16, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 

Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Tuesday, February 16, 2010 page 20 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

Breaking the Storm 
McGraw uncertain if Schrader will play, but they will bring her uniform to New York 
By JARED JEDICK 
Sports Writer 
As the No. 4 Irish prepare for one of the toughest Big East road games of the season against No. 22 St. John’s, the question on everybody’s minds is if senior captain Lindsay Schrader will be able to suit up for the Irish after spraining her left ankle Sunday. 
“We are bringing her uni­form,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said of the senior guard. “We are not sure if she is going to be able to play; it will be a game-time decision.” 
If Schrader is unable to play, the Irish (23-1, 10-1 Big East) will miss her production, as she is the third leading scorer on the team with an average 
11.3 points per game and the leading rebounder with an average 7.3 rebounds per game. 
“I think we have a very bal­anced team, and we have a lot of different weapons, so we will just have to wait for game time and see what happens,” McGraw said. 
What the Irish would really miss in Schrader’s absence is her emotional leadership on the court, a presence that McGraw does not take lightly. 
“We are counting on having her out there, but I thought we did a nice job without her in the DePaul game,” McGraw said. “I thought the guards played very well. I thought [junior forwards] Devereux Peters and Becca [Bruszewski] and everybody stepped up and played well.” 
What worries McGraw and the Irish is to have to rush into a game so quickly after losing such a player, especially against a St. John’s (20-5, 8-4 Big East) team that has risen into the national rankings. 
“It’s a big game for them 
see SCHRADER/page 18 


SARAH O’CONNOR/The Observer Senior guard Lindsay Schrader watches as her teammates defeat DePaul Sunday in the “Pink Zone” game after spraining her ankle in the first half. It will be a game-time decision if she will play tonight. 

WOMEN’S LACROSSE 

Irish name captains, recruit new players, ready to start 
In late January, the team The Irish finished the players scored at least team on and off the field.
By ALLAN JOSEPH 

traveled to Florida for the weekend with a much more once. Scioscia and Blaney earned
Sports Writer 

Champion Challenge spon-competitive 15 -11 loss to Prior to their trip to second -team All -American 
sored by U.S. Lacrosse. The the U.S. National Florida, the Irish selected honors last year, while 
The Irish have been busy Irish opened against the Developmental team . three seniors — defense -Guerrera was named all ­over the last couple weeks National Elite team, quick-Senior attack Gina Scioscia man Rachel Guerrera, mid-region. Scioscia was select-as they prepare for the ly falling behind 12-1 with-scored three goals, while field Maggie Zentgraf and ed as the 2010 preseason quickly approaching spring in 20 minutes en route to a sophomore attack Maggie Scioscia — and a junior, Big East offensive player of season . Notre Dame has 23 -7 loss . The loss was Tamasitis and freshman midfield Shaylyn Blaney, to the year, while Scioscia, already scrimmaged with highlighted by the strong midfielder Jenny Granger serve as the team ’s cap -Blaney and Guerrera were the U.S. national team, debuts of freshman attack each had three-point per-tains for the upcoming sea-preseason all -Big East added recruits for next Betsy Mastropieri with one formances in the loss . son. selections. year and named its cap -goal and freshman goal -Notre Dame showed its None of the players have Irish coach Tracy Coyne tains to make for a strong keeper Ellie Hilling, who ability to score with nearly served the team as captain campaign. had 10 saves. any player as nine different before, but all have led the see RECRUITS/ page 18 
WOMEN’S TRACK & FIELD 

Ferguson leads on the track 
By KAITLYN MURPHY 
Sports Writer 
After ending her senior cross country season finishing 30th at the NCAA Championships, Irish distance runner Lindsay Ferguson continues to record top marks in the indoor track season. Cross country and dis­tance coach Tim Connelly spoke of Ferguson as a crucial compo­nent to the team’s success alongside her personal accom­plishments. 
“[Ferguson] helped lead our team to the Regional Championship and a spot at the NCAA Championships, where she earned All-American sta­tus,” he said. 
Ferguson’s All-American sta­
see QUALIFIER/ page 17 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Irish preparing to host string of competitors 
By JOHN HELMS 
Sports Writer 
The Irish have suffered only one loss this season and, after a weekend off after two recent victories, they are well pre­pared to enter the most demanding part of the regular season. 
No. 13 Notre Dame will kick off a series of home matches this weekend when it hosts Illinois Saturday for the first of five matches in eight days. 
The Irish had the week­end off due to their 5-2 loss to No. 11 North Carolina Jan. 31. The loss ended Notre Dame’s three-match win streak and kept them from advancing to the National Team indoor championships’ round of 15 teams in Madison, Wisc. However, as Irish coach Jay Louderback said, some ­times things work out for the best. 
“We’re going to use this weekend off and really try to make the best of it,” he said. 
One of the biggest ques­tions going into this season was the Irish ’s doubles play. There hasn’t been any major concern so far, but Louderback said the team would use the weekend off to experiment a little. 
see DOUBLES/page 18 





