the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Students continue job, internship search 
NotreDamecommunity offers career advice 

By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
As the spring semester rolls into its second month, students are intensifying their search for summer internships and full time jobs. 
Kevin Monahan, associate director of the Notre Dame Career Center, said if students looking for summer internships have not begun the application process, they should do so immediately. He said landing a job or internship in today’s economy takes more effort than simply filling out applica­tions. 
see JOBS/page 8 

KATIE GREENSPON/The Observer Students pack the Joyce Center Fieldhouse at the fall Career Fair in September. This semester’s fair will host 120 different companies and organizations. 



Former University professor dies at 80 
Ralph McInerny taught at ND for more than 50 years, directed Medieval Institute 
By JOSEPH McMAHON 
Associate News Editor 
Former Notre Dame profes­sor and renowned author Ralph McInerny, who taught at the University from 1955 until his retirement this past June, passed away Friday morning at the age of 80. 
McInerny was a professor of philosophy and Medieval Studies and, for many years, directed Notre Dame’s Medieval Institute. He held degrees from the St. Paul Seminary, the University of Minnesota and Laval University. 
Shortly after beginning his career at Notre Dame, McInerny began to write fic­tion, and after at first receiving numerous rejections, he even­tually published his break-

th rough work, “The Priest,” in 1969, which would go on to become a bestseller. 

The fic­tion work for which he was best known, however, was his Father Dowling series, which is composed of 29 books and was adopted by NBC as a 


television mystery series. 
McInerny also wrote several murder mysteries which took place on Notre Dame’s campus, and in total penned over 80 novels. 
McInerny was also well known for his nonfiction work, which included translations of Thomas Aquinas’ commen­taries for Penguin Classics, and was regarded my many as one of the top experts on Aquinas’ work. 
In addition to his written work, McInerny was a public intellectual who appeared on William F. Buckley’s “Firing Line” and was a member of President George W. Bush’s Committee on the Arts and Humanities. 
A devout Catholic, McInerny’s works always contained strong religious overtones. Along with Michael Novak, McInerny founded “Crisis,” a journal of lay Catholic opinion that he hoped to use to reach a wide audience. 
Towards the end of his career, McInerny was very crit­ical of some University policies he felt devalued Notre Dame’s Catholic identity. A strong pro-life advocate, McInerny wrote an essay criticizing the University’s decision to invite President Barack Obama to be last year’s Commencement 
see MCINERNY/page 8 




New bishop says Siegfried Mass 
By CARLY LANDON 
News Writer 
Siegfried Hall welcomed the newly instated Bishop Kevin Rhoades of the Diocese of Fort Wayne-South Bend to say weekly Mass Sunday night. 
After Bishop John D’Arcy stepped down last year, Rhoades was selected from the Diocese of Harrisburg as his replacement. He was instilled as bishop on Jan. 12. 
Three students from Rhoades’ former diocese arranged the Mass in an effort to welcome him to his new position. 

“David Rudy, Kevin Ortenzio and I drafted a letter welcom­ing Bishop Rhoades to the dio­cese and asking if he wanted to say Mass at Siegfried any­time this semester,” junior Brian Patterson said. 
“He was very active in our Harrisburg [Penn.] diocese and everyone seemed to like him there. He even spoke at my high school’s graduation,” Rudy, a junior, said, “We weren’t surprised he was will­ing to take on new challenges and say Mass here at Notre Dame.” 
Rhoades spoke about his connections to Notre Dame and gave a homily focusing on love and charity. 
“I was struck in the letter I got from David, Kevin and Brian by one sentence. It made this my first commit­ment as a new bishop, coming to this hall. I made this before my commitment to come to [University President] Fr. [John] Jenkins big Mass in the Basilica,” Rhoades said in his homily. “It was a letter about the dorm Masses saying some­thing like, ‘At our dorm Masses we connect to Christ and it helps us to grow in faith, hope and love.’ I thought if that is what going to these dorm Masses does, I have to participate.” 
Siegfried Hall extended a warm welcome with a packed chapel and held a reception after Mass in Rhoades’ honor. 
“Students seemed very excited for his visit, and not only did we have a high turnout of Siegfried residents but also we even had a few people from other dorms attend,” Patterson said. 
“We’re very honored to host Bishop Rhoades to celebrate his first dorm Mass at Notre Dame with the Ramblers of Siegfried Hall,” Siegfried President David Surprenant said. “We’re looking forward 
see BISHOP/page 6 


Winter Career Fair to feature 120 companies 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
To provide students an on-campus opportunity to meet potential employers, Notre Dame’s Career Center will host the Winter Career and Internship Fair Wednesday at the Joyce Center Fieldhouse from 4 to 8 p.m. 
The fair will feature rep­resentatives from 120 dif­ferent companies and 
organizations, Kevin Monahan, associate director of the Career Center, said. 
“Last year, 133 organiza­tions attended the Winter 
see FAIR/page 9 


Observer elects new top editor 
Observer Staff Report 
The Observer General Board elected Sports Editor Matt Gamber as the 2010-11 Editor-in-Chief Sunday. 
Gamber, a junior finance and American Studies major with a minor in Journalism, Ethics and Democracy, is a native 
of Mt. Prospe ct, Ill. 
Gamber, a former resident 
of Sorin College who cur ­rently resides off campus, has led several sports beats, including football, men ’s basketball, hockey, baseball, women’s lacrosse and Saint Mary’s cross country. 
“I’m honored to assume the role of Editor-in-Chief, and I look forward to the opportu­nity to work with so many of the people that make the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s community such a unique and special place,” Gamber said. 
Gamber became Sports Editor in the spring of 2009 and led coverage of the Notre Dame football coach­ing change, producing spe­cial editions on both the fir-

see EDITOR/page 9 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Seminarians play in hoops tourney page 4  Men’s basketball team falls to Rutgers page 24  Grammys Breakdown page 13  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, February 1, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Back in the day 
Feeling stupid and spoiled, I recently asked a professor how they produced news­papers “back in the day,” or in the Paleolithic ages before the Internet. How did writers send in their stories if not by e­mail? How did editors fact check obscure fig­ures without Google? How in the world did they check weird spelling? 
The answer I received was shock­ing. 
They submitted their articles either hard copy in person or over the (naturally) landline telephone. 

Fact checking was done by searching archives or encyclopedias and dictionaries were used to spell check. Webster’s big red brick dictionary, not Dictionary.com. 
None of this really has any bearing on how we do things now, but it really got me thinking about how this technological revo­lution thing has made us feel so entitled, and in a way, totally spoiled. 
I curse the fact that I cannot electronically page lost items like keys. I feel naked with­out my BlackBerry. I cannot do my home­work without Internet and if I don’t check my e-mail for an afternoon I feel utterly dis­connected from the entire world. 
None of this was around when, for exam­ple, my parents were in school here. People used typewriters. To get in contact with someone, you could call his or her dorm room phone. It seems like everything was way more personal and arduous and you couldn’t arbitrarily flirt with someone by a vague text, BBM or Facebook chat mes­sage. 
(How on earth did they promote causes, become fans of MTV reality shows, poke or know people’s birthdays without Facebook?) 
While I obviously cherish my electronic gadgets as well as the fact that everything I need in college is virtually at my fingertips, I am terrified for the advancements from which generations to come will benefit. 
I am afraid I will have one of those sassy 9-year old daughters who insists on getting a iPhone for her birthday and an iPad (or whatever those things are) to do her home­work. 
I bet kids in the future will be so lazy and tech-dependent that if the power goes out they will be completely powerless to do any­thing at all (pun intended). 
I remember when I was little we played outside until it was so dark we couldn’t see each other. These days when I babysit and tell the kids to go outside and play, they ask if they can bring their Nintendo DS with them. 
What is there to be done about this phe­nomenon? 
Obviously nothing. I do think though that as virtually everything becomes more readi­ly available to us and we essentially don’t have to work as hard as before, the bar is raised and performance is expected to be better. 
It’s now a lot harder for little grammatical or spelling mistakes to seep into the paper. We have machines to do busy work for us. We as a whole should be doing things a lot better. 
And obviously never forget that with the pull of a plug we could lose it all. 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU WERE AN INFOMERCIAL PRODUCT, WHAT WOULD YOU BE? 








“A Snuggie, I “I don’t know … “The Bumpit … “Something for “Something to “I’d be a guess.” a ShamWow?” it defies cleaning … like lose weight.” gardening hoe.” gravity!” a special mop.” 
Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

OFFBEAT 

Truck driver chokes on chili and crashes into home 
LOWELL, Mass. — Police said a Massachusetts lumber truck crashed into a home after the driver was knocked unconscious by a small chili from Wendy’s. Lowell police said Eric Gremm reported that he choked on the chili when the truck hit a bump, causing him to pass out as the flatbed truck veered off the road and slammed into the home. The man, 59, said emergency work­ers at the scene told him that he had passed out, but he could not remem­ber losing consciousness. 
Police said the truck hit the foundation of the home, and authorities were worried that the home might collapse when the truck was pulled out. 
Gremm was taken by ambulance to a local hos­pital for treatment of minor injuries. 
Police said he could be cited for eating while driving. 
Mo. grandmother accused of drugging granddaughter 
JEFFERSON CITY, Mo. 
— A Missouri woman is accused of drugging her 1-year-old granddaughter, hoping that the child's divorcing parents would get back together if they had a sick child. 
Jefferson City police allege in a probable cause statement that 41-year­old Terri Chilton fed her granddaughter blood thinner on Jan. 12, caus­ing the girl to bleed uncontrollably from her mouth, nose and two minor scratches. The girl survived, but it's not yet known if there was long­term organ damage. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

Today Tonight TUESDAY wednesday 
IN BRIEF 
Architecture critic Paul Goldberger, a Pulitzer Prize­winning journalist, will give his lecture, “Why Architechture Matters,” today from 4:30 to 
6:30 p.m. in 104 Bond Hall. A book signing will follow. 
A “Haiti — What You Need to Know about the Nation on the News” lecture will be held today at 8 p.m. in the lower level of the Geddes Hall audi­torium. 
The Winter Career and Internship Fair will take place Wednesday from 4 p.m. to 8 
p.m. in the Joyce Center Fieldhouse. Admission is free and all students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s and Holy Cross College are welcome. 
The Richard Alston Dance Company will perform Thursday at 7 p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center’s Decio Mainstage Theater. Tickets may be pur­chased online or by calling the Notre Dame Ticket Office. 
The film “The Greatest Silence: Rape in the Congo” will be shown Thursday at 7 
p.m. in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center’s Browning Cinema. Tickets are free but must be obtained from the Notre Dame Ticket Office. 
AcoustiCafe, which features live musical performances by students, will take place Thursday from 10 p.m. to midnight in the LaFortune Basement. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
THURSDAY FRIDAY 

The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 

CORRECTIONS 

The authors of a guest column that appeared in the Jan. 29 
HIGH 27 HIGH 23 HIGH 32 HIGH 29 HIGH 33 HIGH 34 
editionofTheObserver,titled “Concernsandrecommen­
dations,” should have been attributed as past members of the Core Council for Gay and Lesbian Students as well as the former Standing Committee on Gay and Lesbian 
Student Needs.Their views are not necessarily those of the 
current Core Council.The Observer regrets this error. 
Atlanta 53 / 36 Boston 34 / 17 Chicago 29 / 22 Denver 46 / 25 Houston 58 / 47 Los Angeles 65 / 47 Minneapolis 16 / 10 
New York 37 / 25 Philadelphia 38 / 25 Phoenix 71 / 51 Seattle 51 / 43 St. Louis 38 / 30 Tampa 61 / 50 Washington 40 / 30 
Monday, February 1, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Seminarians compete in basketball tournament 
By LAUREN KNAUF 
News Writer 
The Irish men’s basketball team wasn’t the only traveling hoops team from Notre Dame this weekend. A group of Holy Cross seminarians from Old College and Moreau Seminary traveled to Illinois this weekend to compete in an annual inter-seminary basketball tourna­ment. 
The team, which consisted of 14 seminarians, won one of its three games in the “Mundelein Seminary Shootout.” 
They placed sixth overall in the tournament, which included nine teams from seminaries across the Midwest. 
“Even though we didn’t do as well as we had hoped, the atmosphere there was pretty incredible whenever we stepped on the court, and our fans and bench guys were going crazy during every game,” junior Mike Palmer said. 
The tournament was highly competitive and each team was intent on winning, Palmer said, but it offered more than just a chance to compete on the court. 
“A huge part of it was also meeting other seminarians and bonding with our brothers in Holy Cross,” he said. 
Coach of the Holy Cross team, Michael Seidl, said he enjoyed the sense of community that the tournament created. 
“This weekend was an oppor­tunity for all of the young men in seminary formation to be togeth­er, to join in a common cause and to have some fun,” he said. 
Holy Cross lost its first game to the host team and eventual tour­nament champions, Mundelein Seminary. The two teams were neck and neck throughout the first half, but in the second half Mundelein pulled away, Seidl said. 
The second game, against Mount Saint Mary’s Seminary of Cincinnati, resulted in an easy win for the Holy Cross team. 
A victory in the third game, against Kendrick-Glennon Seminary, would have sent Holy Cross to the semifinals. They couldn’t, however, pull through in the second half, Seidl said, and another loss prevented the team from advancing further. 
Chris Rehegan, in his candi­date year at Moreau Seminary, junior Bob Dunsmuir, and sen­iors Tim Mouton and Anthony Stachowski were among players that gave noteworthy perform­ances this weekend, Seidl said. 
In the months leading up to the tournament, the team pre­pared by holding practices each Sunday. 
“This year our team had hopes of improving on last year’s 3-1 record and playing for the cham­pionship,” Seidl said. “Since returning from Christmas break, we’ve had more formal practices several times a week. We spent time working on fundamentals and learning our offensive and defensive schemes,” he said. 
To prepare, the team also held a scrimmage against a team of graduate students and local resi­dents. 
Despite the outcome of this year’s tournament, the team looks forward to competing again next year, Palmer and Seidl said. 
“As long as they keep inviting us back and as long as we have enough vocations to put five players on the floor, we’ll be sending a team,” Palmer said. 
Seidl and the Holy Cross team are already planning for a more successful tournament in 2011. 

“We’ll make sure to get plenty of practice time. We also plan on talking to Luke Harangody, to see if he might have a vocation to Holy Cross,” Seidl joked. “That should improve our chances.” 
Contact Lauren Knauf at lknauf@nd.edu 

College holds fifth annual weeklong French film festival 
films had received as well as the Derakhshani to choose from. students in Film Studies or Popular Romance of Astrée and Céladon), 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 

interest of the films’ topics and She said she chose the film “Les Culture,” Derakhshani said. “Azur et Asmar” (Azur and 
Saint Mary’s Editor 

plots,” Derakhshani said. Amours d’Astrée et Céladon” She also said the festival could Asmar), “Graine et le mulet” (The 
The festival is made possible because it is based on a 17th cen-help students who haven’t been Secret of the Grain) and “Un 
Saint Mary’s Department of because of grants from The tury novel, which coincides with a able to experience traveling Secret” (A Secret). Modern Languages and the Center Tournées Festival, which encour-class on 17th century French liter-abroad to learn more about anoth-The movie plots range from high for Women’s Intercultural ages French film festivals on col-ature being taught this semester. er culture. school dramas to romance to a Leadership (CWIL) will be hosting lege campuses, something “It’s always great to be able to “They are also a great way to post-World War II Paris. their fifth annual weeklong French Derakhshani learned about when complement classroom learning learn about the world without nec-All of the movies will be shown Film Festival she decided to with these extra-curricular oppor-essary traveling. Films open win-with English subtitles and are free beginning today start the festival tunities,” Derakhshani said. dows on different cultures and and open to the public, and running five years ago. She said students who are experiences,” Derakhshani said. Derakhshani said. 
“It’s always great to 
through Friday. “I started it French majors might take particu-The films include “Entre les 
be able to
The films will be because I learned lar interest in the list of films. murs” (The Class), “Les Amours Contact Ashley Charnley at shown in Vander complement about a great “The films could be of interest to d’Astrée et Céladon” (The acharn01@saintmarys.edu Vennet Theater in grant opportunity 
classroom learning
the basement of through the 
with these
the Student French Cultural Center every day extracurricular Services. These at 7 p.m. are recent films 
activities.” 
M a n a and the price of Derakhshani, screening them is 
Mana Derakhshani
associate director rather high,” for CWIL and a associate director Derakhshani said. professor of Center for Women’s The Franco-French at Saint American Cultural 
Intercultural Leadership 
Mary’s, put Exchange spon­together the film sors the grants list with senior French major that allow colleges across the Jenny Becker. country to hold events like this 
“Our choice was based on the week’s film festival and they also positive reviews and awards the provided a list of films for 
Theft reported in McCandless Hall 
“Always lock your room if 
Observer Staff Report 
you are leaving it unattended, 

An e-mail sent to students no matter how short your last week by Dave Gariepy, anticipated absence,” Gariepy director of Saint Mary’s said. Security, reported that a theft If students do have anything occurred on campus, warning taken from their room, Gariepy students to keep their resi-said the student should report dence hall doors locked. it to campus security before 
According to Gariepy, the calling the police. theft occurred last semester, “Contact campus security but was only recently reported first,” Gariepy said. “Campus by the student who had the security will investigate the items stolen. incident and contact police 
The items were taken from a authorities if warranted or room in McCandless Hall. should the victim desire.” 
“Only one room was reported Most importantly, he said, to have been victimized that we students need to report any know of,” Gariepy said. issues they may have on cam-
He said a few personal items pus. were stolen and he advised stu-“Report all suspicious activity dents to be careful of their or criminal behavior immedi­belongings. ately to Security,” Gariepy said. 


page 4 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Monday, February 1, 2010 
World & Nation 
Monday, February 1, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

13 students killed at Mexico party 
CIUDAD JUAREZ, Mexico — Armed men stormed a party in this violent Mexican border city, killing 13 high school and college students in what witnesses said they thought was an attack prompt­ed by false information. 
About two dozen teens and young adults were hospitalized after the late Saturday assault in Ciudad Juarez, a drug cartel-plagued city which is one of the deadliest in the world. 
Grieving witnesses and family members told The Associated Press on Sunday they thought the vic­tims, mostly residents of the housing complex where the attack occurred, had no ties to drug traf­fickers. 
The young adults had gathered to watch a box­ing match, Lujan said, when two trucks pulled up loaded with armed men who opened fire. 
Russian police break up protests 
MOSCOW — Russian police broke up anti-Kremlin protests in Moscow and St. Petersburg on Sunday, and detained more than 100 demon­strators, including several opposition leaders. 
In Moscow, several hundred demonstrators gathered in a central square, defying a ban imposed by authorities. The protesters said their rally was banned in violation of the Russian con­stitution’s guarantee of the right to gather. 
They denounced the policies of President Dmitry Medvedev and his predecessor and men­tor Vladimir Putin, who continues to wield broad powers as Russia’s powerful prime minister. 
Police spokesman Viktor Biryukov said about 300 people took part in the Moscow rally and about 100 were detained. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

Police bust crash victim for pot 
TUCUMCARI, N.M. — Tracks in the snow leading from a crashed car to the nearby bridge overpass on New Mexico’s I-40 just didn’t look right to officers. 
State police say that officers patrolling the stretch near Tucumcari Saturday found that 40-year-old Henry Alan Lowe of El Paso, Texas, had lost control of his sedan and crashed into a snow pile. 
Then they noticed tracks leading back and forth from the trunk to the bridge. 
They allege that partially hidden under the overpass were large plastic wrapped bundles and inside was about 238 pounds of raw marijuana with an estimated street value of more than $642,000. 
Police say Lowe was arrested after treated for a gash to his head. 
More states offer lottery tickets 
DES MOINES, Iowa — Dozens of states have begun selling Powerball and Mega Millions tickets in what could be a step toward an eventual national lottery. 
Margaret DeFrancisco, co-chair of a com­mittee for both lotteries and president and CEO of the Georgia Lottery Corp., says tick­ets for both games began selling on Sunday. 
Twenty-three of the 33 jurisdictions where Powerball has been played are now selling tickets for the Mega Millions drawing on Feb. 
2. Ten of the 12 states where Mega Millions has been played are selling tickets for the Feb. 3 Powerball drawing. 
DeFrancisco says lottery officials want to see how cross-selling goes before focusing on establishing a national lottery, which they hope to have running by spring 2011. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Woman survives house explosion 
INDIANAPOLIS — Neighbors helped an Indianapolis woman escape her home after an explosion rocked it. 
Indianapolis Fire Department spokeswoman Rita Reith said no one was injured in the blast about 5 a.m. Sunday but seven exotic birds died in an ensuing fire. 
Reith says neighbors helped pull the only per­son in the home at the time, 52-year-old Alice Helterbrand, to safety through a hole in a wall after they found her disoriented and trying to exit a locked door. 
The house collapsed a short time later. Firefighters estimate the damages at $160,000. 
HAITI 

Food, aid lines focus on women 
New approach targets primary caregivers, helps ease chaos at handouts 
Associated Press 

PORT-AU-PRINCE — The 79-year-old woman with a 55-pound bag of rice perched on her head gin­gerly descended concrete steps Sunday and passed it off to her daughter-in-law 
— who quickly disappeared behind the faded leopard-print sheets that are the walls of their makeshift home on the crowded turf of Haiti’s National Stadium. 
That personal victory for Rosedithe Menelas and her hungry family was a leap forward as well for the United Nations and aid groups that have struggled to help 2 million people who need food aid after the Jan. 12 earthquake. 
Under a new targeted approach to aid, Menelas and thousands of other women across Haiti’s capi­tal no longer have to battle with men at food handouts that in recent days have been chaotic and dangerous scrums. 
“Every time they give out food there’s too much trou­ble,” said Menelas, collaps­ing into a small wooden chair as two grandchildren quickly scrambled into her lap. “Today, we finally got something.” 
U.N. officials say they are still far short of reaching all said at the stadium, now a bag is intended to help feed with third-degree burns to of the quake victims esti-sprawling encampment of a family of six for two Children’s Hospital in mated to need food. families left homeless by the weeks with about half the Philadelphia. 
The U.N. World Food quake. calories they need each day. The White House said the Program and its partners, Officials targeted women Also Sunday, the White airlift would resume in including World Vision, bor-because they are primary House said it was resuming hours. “Patients are being rowed an approach that has caregivers in most house-the military airlift of criti-identified for transfer, doc-worked in other disaster holds and are less likely to cally injured earthquake tors are making sure that it zones. The agencies fanned be aggressive in aid lines. victims, having received is safe for them to fly, and out across Port-au-Prince, Many Haitians agreed. assurances that additional we are preparing specific distributing coupons to be Chery Frantz, a 35-year-medical capacity exists in in-flight pediatric care redeemed for bags of rice at old father of four who lives U.S. hospitals. The flights aboard the aircraft where 16 sites. The coupons were in a ravine near one distri-had stopped four days earli-needed,” spokesman given mainly to women, the bution center, said men are er, worrying doctors in Haiti Tommy Vietor said. elderly and the disabled. more likely to try to sell the who said hundreds would The U.S. Army Corps of 
Men could redeem donated rice. die without specialized Engineers has been asked coupons for women who “Women won’t do that care. Since then, relief to build a 250-bed tent hos-were busy taking care of because they’re more groups were forced to use pital to relieve pressure on children or who otherwise responsible,” Frantz said. expensive private jets. the U.S. Navy hospital ship could not make it. Bags of rice will be given The Boston-based aid Comfort and on Haitian 
“Our experience around out daily for the next two group Partners in Health facilities where earthquake the world is that food is weeks to hold the city until arranged for one such victims are being treated more likely to be equitably longer-term food efforts can plane Sunday to fly a 5-under tarpaulins in hospital shared in the household if it take hold. Workers are year-old tetanus victim, a grounds. Several Port-au­is given to women,” WFP handing out 1,700 rations 14-month-old boy with Prince hospitals were dam-spokesman Marcus Prior daily at each location. Each pneumonia and a baby boy aged or destroyed. 


Palin’s shadow hangs over ethics debate 
rack up fighting ethics complaints, if the “I think a lot of these issues ... would 
Associated Press 
official is exonerated by an attorney gen-benefit from the passage of time, and 

JUNEAU, Alaska — The fallout from eral, independent investigator or by the likely are better issues for the (next) Sarah Palin’s hasty retreat as governor is state Personnel Board, whose members Legislature to take up,” said Ramras, being cleaned up by the man she are appointed by the governor. who often found himself at odds with appointed attorney general in her waning Sullivan’s proposals are on track to Palin. He said he wants to focus his limit-days in office. take effect after a review of public com-ed committee time on anti-crime meas-
Attorney General Dan Sullivan has pro-ments unless the legislature passes ures. posed broad changes to Alaska’s ethics superseding law. The prospects for that But at least one lawmaker believes any rules that Palin complained helped drive happening — in an election year, with change to the ethics code should come her out. One Sullivan recommendation many Alaskans worried about job losses from the Legislature, rather than from a that might sound familiar: Setting ethical and energy prices — appear dim. political appointee. standards for spouses and kids to travel While ethics is an important issue, “It’s Rep. Max Gruenberg, D-Anchorage, with the governor or lieutenant governor not going to be very high on my laundry has introduced legislation with some pro-at taxpayer expense. list of state issues to address,” said Rep. visions similar to Sullivan’s for travel and 
Another would implement an opinion Jay Ramras, R-Fairbanks, whose legal fee reimbursement. He would like he issued in August, that the state could Judiciary Committee would be where any the state to put off implementation of pay legal fees executive branch officials ethics bills might land. Sullivan’s plan, pending legislative action. 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 1, 2010 
Professorlectureson St.ThomasAquinas 
By CAROLYNN SMITH 
News Writer 
Angela McKay Knobel, assistant professor of philosophy at Catholic University of America, discussed Aquinas’ views on marriage in a lecture called “Marriage as a Friendship of the Good” in Saint Mary’s Student Center Lounge Thursday night as a part of the 13th annual Symposium on St. Thomas Aquinas. 
The lecture took place on Aquinas’ Feast Day. 
“If we’re still celebrating a man who lived 800 years ago, then it stands to reason that he must have done something truly spectacular,” Knobel said. 
She said Aquinas was a great thinker and saw both reason and faith. He had two main arguments about marriage and believed it should be monogamous and per­manent. 
“Aquinas wants to use Aristotle to argue for a conclusion that Aristotle himself never argues for, namely that men and women should enter into monogamous, indissoluble unions,” Knobel said. 
Knobel explained how Aristotle’s views on friendship, more specifi­cally friendship between a man and a woman, help to guide Aquinas’ beliefs on marriage. 
Aristotle believed no one would choose to live without friends and spoke of true friendship and false friendship, she said. 
According to Knobel, Aristotle believed there is a “natural friend­ship” between men and women. Aristotle thought men and women need each other for procreation but also to get through life, she said. 
“Men and women are suited for different activities and hence natu­rally come together,” Knobel said of Aristotle’s views. 
Aquinas expanded Aristotle’s idea of “natural friendship” to relate to marriage. Men and women share activities and respon­sibilities including childrearing, she said. 
According to Knobel, Aquinas said that the proper education of children requires that the associa­tion so formed be indissoluble. 
Therefore, she said, Aquinas believed once a couple has entered into a marriage and had children, there can be no divorce because childrearing is a life-long process that is never finished. 
She said one of Aquinas’ main arguments stated marriage should be permanent for the child’s sake. 
“Aquinas acknowledges that the married friendship should be a friendship that is solid and lasting, that it is the kind of friendship that cannot be shared with many peo­ple, and even that there should be equality between husband and wife,” Knobel said. 
Aristotle described true friend­ship as lasting, solid and not shared with many people, Knobel said. Aquinas believed these same traits should be applied to marriage. 
Contact Carolynn Smith at csmith02@saintmarys.edu 
Timp appointed to joint position 
Special to the Observer 
Gregory Timp has been named the Keough-Hesburgh Professor of Electrical Engineering and Biological Sciences at Notre Dame. 
The first joint appointment between the College of Engineering and the College of Science, Timp’s position is indicative not only of the interdisciplinary nature of his work, but it also signifies the start of a new University program in synthetic biology, which is part of the biomed­ical initiative on campus. The program seeks to mimic biol­ogy on the nanometer scale with man-made constructs for applications in tissue engineering, epigenetics and DNA sequencing, and will be featured within the University’s Advanced Diagnostics and Therapeutics Initiative. 
Timp is a recognized authority on nanotechnology, which he has used to produce everything from nanometer-scale transistors with world-record performance to syn­thetic nanopores for sequencing DNA. Over the last ten years, he has focused his efforts on the nanometer-scale machinery in living cells. For example, he rewires gene networks to co-opt the molecular biology of living cells for applications such as biocomputing. Specifically, Timp assembles genetically programmed bac­teria that act like biochemi­cal signal transmitters, receivers and logic gates, using a combination of microfluidics, which function like capillaries conveying the cells to an assembly area. He uses arrays of optical tweez­ers to precisely organize the programmed cells with nanometer-scale precision into a simple computer. 
Most recently, Timp served as a professor in the Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering, the Beckman Institute for Advanced Science and Technology, the Center for Biophysics and Computational Biology and the Institute of Genomic Biology at the University of Illinois at Urbana ­Champaign. 
He previously worked as a member of the technical staff 
of Bell Laboratories on a number of projects, including using light as a lens for atomic -scale lithography, nanometer-scale transistors 
future. We also wish him the best of luck at his new 
Bishop 
appointment as Bishop in Fort continued from page 1 Wayne.” This was Rhoades’s first to inviting him back to our event at the University since hall and Notre Dame in the becoming bishop. Next 
and quantum mechanical transport through wires so small that they act like elec­tron waveguides. 
Among the frequently cited scholars in the field of nan­otechnology, Timp has pub­lished more than 100 articles in refereed journals, given more than 100 invited and plenary seminars and co­authored several books on nanotechnology. He also holds several patents. 
Timp is a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Physical Society and the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers. In addition, he is a fellow and founding member of the American Academy of Nanomedicine, as well as a member of the American Biophysical Society, the American Vacuum Society and the Electrochemical Society. 
He received his doctorate and his master’s in 1984 and 1980, respectively, in electri­cal engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and his bache­lor’s degree, also in electrical engineering, from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1978. 
Tuesday Notre Dame will wel­come Bishop Rhoades to the diocese with a Mass at 5:15 
p.m. in the Basilica. 
Contact Carly Landon at clandon1@nd.edu 


The Observer 

Business
Monday, February 1, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

‘Avatar’ nears box office record 
NEW YORK — “Avatar” is on the cusp of top­pling the domestic box-office record after leading all movies for a seventh straight week. 
James Cameron’s 3-D epic earned $30 million over the weekend, and its domestic total reached $594.5 million, according to studio estimates Sunday. That puts the film only about $6 million behind the domestic record set by Cameron’s “Titanic” in 1998 with $600.8 million. 
Earlier this week, the 20th Century Fox block­buster passed “Titanic” for the worldwide box-office record. It has now crossed the $2 billion worldwide mark with $2.039 billion, easily beat­ing the $1.8 billion made by “Titanic.” 
“You have to do a double take when you see these numbers,” said Paul, Dergarabedian, box-office analyst for Hollywood.com, marveling that “Avatar” decreased only 14 percent from the pre­vious weekend. “James Cameron is the king of the box office hold.” 
So close to the domestic box-office record, “Avatar” could pass “Titanic,” interestingly enough, on Tuesday — when Oscar nominations are announced. The film is expected to be nomi­nated for best picture, as well as numerous other categories. 
Ford partner continues making buses 
NEW YORK — A joint venture partner of Ford Motor Co. said Sunday it has resumed making buses in China after determining that the gas pedal assembly doesn’t have the same problem that forced a recall of millions of Toyota vehicles. 
Jiangling Motors Co. uses the same supplier, CTS Automotive of Elkhart, Ind., that made pedal assembly parts for some Toyotas. 
Jiangling makes a diesel-powered commer­cial bus, the Transit Classic, for the Chinese market. The vehicles went into production in December and only about 1,600 were made before assembly was stopped. 
Ford has said there have been no reported problems with the Transit Classic, and that none of its other vehicles use gas pedal parts made by CTS. 
Accelerators made by CTS are at the center of a large recall and halt in production by Toyota over fears that the gas pedals can become stuck and lead to uncontrolled accel­eration. 
Obama’s budget goes to Congress 
Proposed $3.8 trillion plan would provide billions to pull country out of recession 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama’s proposed budget predicts the national deficit will crest at a record-breaking $1.6 trillion in the current fiscal year, then start to recede in 2011 to $1.3 trillion, a con­gressional official said Sunday. 
Still, the administration’s new budget to be released Monday says deficits over the next decade will average 
4.5 percent of the size of the economy, a level which economists say is danger­ously high if not addressed, said the congressional offi­cial. The official was not authorized to discuss the budget before its public release. 
Details of the administra­tion’s budget headed for Congress include an addi­tional $100 billion to attack painfully high unemploy­ment. The proposed $3.8 trillion budget would pro­vide billions more to pull the country out of the Great Recession while increasing taxes on the wealthy and imposing a spending freeze on many government pro­grams. 
White House spokesman Robert Gibbs said the administration believed “somewhere in the $100 bil­lion range” would be the American people,” Gibbs $1.42 trillion last year. bolster their finances in a appropriate amount for a said in an appearance on The Congressional Budget year when they are not new jobs measure made up CNN’s “State of the Union.” Office is forecasting that the receiving the normal cost-of­of a business tax credit to Job creation was a key deficit for the current budg-living boost to their benefit encourage hiring, increased theme of the budget Obama et year will be only slightly checks because of low infla­infrastructure spending and was sending Congress on lower, $1.35 trillion, and the tion. Obama will also seek a money from the govern-Monday, a document flood of red ink will remain $25 billion increase in pay­ment’s bailout fund to get designed, as was the presi-massive for years to come, ments to help recession-bat­banks to increase loans to dent’s State of the Union raising worries among vot-tered states. struggling small businesses. address, to reframe his ers and the foreign investors Obama’s new budget will 
That price tag would be young presidency after a who buy much of the coun-set off months of debate in below a $174 billion bill protracted battle over health try’s debt. the Democratically con-passed by the House in care damaged his standing On the anti-recession trolled Congress, especially December but higher than in public opinion polls and front, congressional sources in an election year in which an $83 billion proposal that contributed to a series of said Obama’s new budget Republicans are hoping to surfaced last week in the Democratic election defeats. will propose extending the use attacks against govern-Senate. Obama’s $3.8 trillion popular Making Work Pay ment overspending to gain 
Gibbs said it was impor-spending plan for the 2011 middle-class tax breaks of seats. Obama has argued tant for Democrats and budget year that begins Oct. $400 per individual and that he inherited a deficit of Republicans to put aside 1 attempts to navigate $800 per couple through more than $1 trillion and their differences to pass a between the opposing goals 2011. They were due to was forced to increase bill that addresses jobs, the of pulling the country out of expire after this year. spending to stabilize the country’s No. 1 concern. “I a deep recession and deal-The budget will also pro-financial system and combat think that would be a pow-ing with a budget deficit that pose $250 payments to the worst recession since the erful signal to send to the soared to an all-time high of Social Security recipients to 1930s. 


Apple’s iPad could confuse consumers 
back to read them later on a differ-system.
Associated Press 
ent one. The effect could be akin to Before the iPad’s debut, there have 

NEW YORK — Even as Apple’s iPad having to buy a new set of CDs every been two main camps in the e-book will likely energize electronic read-time you get a new stereo system. It industry. ing, the new device is undermining a could also keep people from buying The e-books that Amazon sells painstakingly constructed effort by new e-readers as better models come work only on the Kindle and on the publishing industry to make it out if they aren’t compatible with the Amazon’s software, which can be possible to move e-books between books they already have. loaded for free on PCs and some different electronic readers. This could cool consumers’ enthu-smart phones. Everyone else, includ-
The slim, 1.5-pound “tablet” com-siasm for e-books, the way sales of ing Sony Corp., Barnes & Noble Inc. puter unveiled last week will be digital music downloads were ham-and public libraries, have gathered linked to Apple Inc.’s first e-book pered by a variety of copy-protection around Adobe’s system. store when it goes on sale in a few schemes. Adobe doesn’t sell books itself, but months. The books, however, will not “There are going to be some poten-provides software to booksellers and be compatible with Amazon.com tially painful lessons” for consumers libraries so they can sell and lend Inc.’s Kindle or with the major alter-when they try to move e-books they books that can be opened on multiple native e-book system. already own to new devices, said devices. Like the Kindle store, the 
Apple’s creation of a third choice is Nick Bogaty, senior manager of digi-Adobe system uses a copy-protection likely to further frustrate and con-tal publishing business development system that prevents buyers from fuse consumers if they accumulate e-at Adobe Systems Inc., which pro-reselling the books or distributing books for one device, then try to go vides the major alternative e-book them online. 
page 8 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, February 1, 2010 
Jobs 
continued from page 1 
“Students should be identify­ing potential employers, they should be applying for those opportunities, they should be reaching out and networking for additional opportunities with smaller companies,” Monahan said. 
Monahan said one of the most helpful things students going through the application process can do is reach out to young alumni who are working in the same company or field. These alumni, Monahan said, are almost always willing to give students specific tips about the company’s hiring process. 
Monahan said career fairs like Wednesday’s Career and Internship Fair are great opportunities for younger stu­dents to identify what charac­teristics employers look for in their applicants. He said before this year’s fair, students should make sure that their résumés, cover letters and any other necessary documents are final­ized and presentable. 
“Go in with a game plan, don’t set high expectations and make a good impression on the employers,” he said. 
Career fairs never translate directly into a job or internship offer, Monahan said, but they do allow students to make con­nections with employers. 
“I’ve never met a student who walked out of a career fair with a job or internship in hand,” Monahan said. “There’s always a face-to-face part of hiring process … what you can accomplish is gathering infor­mation and you can also make a good impression with an employer. That personal inter­action does count quite a bit.” 
Senior Lindsay Ruhling, who signed with Deloitte earlier this year, encourages students to familiarize themselves with the Go IRISH page on the Career Center’s Web site before attending the fair. 
“The Go IRISH site was a great tool for me to see what companies would be at the fair so I could research them beforehand and get an idea of which jobs I was really inter­ested in before talking to their recruiters and applying for positions,” Ruhling said. 
Sophomores and juniors often fear that with fewer jobs open for seniors and recent graduates, internships once offered to younger college stu­dents will no longer be avail­able. Monahan said decreased internship opportunities are not usually a result of older students filling the positions. 
“The number of internship positions is down a little bit,” Monahan said. “A company that would normally take one hundred [interns] is now maybe taking 80. Let’s say with advertising, they will look at a recent graduate for an intern­ship, but other industries won’t. It’s not tougher because of [seniors and graduated stu­dents], it’s tougher because there are fewer positions,” he said. 
Some companies, Monahan said, have traditionally offered only unpaid internships. Others under financial pres­sure have been turning paid internships into unpaid intern­ships. Many students are not limiting themselves this year by applying only to paid intern­ships. 
“I feel that with the current job market it’s necessary to be flexible and apply to both paid and unpaid internships,” soph­omore Molly Hunter said. “Even if an internship is unpaid, it will still be a valu­able opportunity. I’m also con­sidering other options, such as summer study abroad pro­grams.” 

Monahan encourages stu­dents to narrow down their internship choices and not to ers are still waiting to hear back, depending on the compa­ny’s hiring process. 
apply to certain  s e c o n d  
positions simply because they  “I’ve never met a  s e m e s t e r r e c r u i t i n g  
feel they should.  student who walked  p r o c e s s .  
“Start at the beginning and identify what are  out of a career fair with a job or  There are dif­ferent recruit­ing sched- 
your interests  internship in hand.”  ules.”  
and where are  Ruhling said  
your strengths,” Monahan said. “I’ve seen stu- Kevin Monahan associate director  a c c o u n t i n g firms usually hire early in  
dents who just  Notre Dame Career Center  the fall, but  
applied and  other compa­ 
applied and  nies, especial- 
experience quite  ly consulting  

“People are still looking for jobs because, for example, advertising recruits in the fall, but journalism recruits in the spring,” Monahan said. “Anything communications-oriented … [is] much more of a 
a bit of frustration … when they get into the interview process. When they do apply for opportunities [in which they are interested], they can speak with passion about why they want a certain field or sector.” 
While some seniors have had jobs lined up for months, oth­firms, do their hiring much later in the year. 
“The company I ended up signing with, Deloitte, did things differently [than most other companies],” Ruhling said. “At the end of September I had my first round interview at the Inn at Saint Mary’s one day, a second round interview the following day and knew by that evening that I was receiv­ing a job offer.” Ruhling said. 
A fast hiring process, Ruhling said, offers many advantages. 
“I wish more companies were able to conduct their hir­ing process like that because it eliminated a lot of the worry and nervousness that came with waiting to hear back from companies,” she said. 
Monahan said although this year’s job market looks signifi­cantly more promising than last year’s, it still has not rebounded from where it was two years ago. 
“Last year the three indus­tries that really got crunched were investment banking, con­sulting, and architecture,” Monahan said. “That was tough. This year, everything seems to be coming back. 2009-10 is better is than 2008­09, but still not good as 2007­08.” 
Wednesday’s Career and Internship Fair will take place at the Joyce Center from 4 to 8 p.m. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 
McInerny 
continued from page 1 
speaker in the online forum “The Catholic Thing.” McInerny was also critical of the decision to allow the “Vagina Monologues” to be performed on campus and of the firing of former Irish football coach Tyrone Willingham. 
The Mass of Christian Burial will be held for McInerny today at 9:30 a.m. at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. 
Contact Joseph McMahon at jmcmaho6@nd.edu 



Monday, February 1, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 9 
tions for the fair. He said In preparation, the Career “We had 18 alumni repre-Career Programs said. they also should identify Center and several other senting 14 companies, ” “The Diversity Reception 
Fair 

and research eight to 12 groups have hosted work-Yuen said. “We also had is an excellent opportunity employers and their job or shops to prepare students over 200 students. We didn’t for students to network and 
continued from page 1 

internship openings. To pre-for networking, interviews anticipate 200 students. We speak more in -depth with 
pare for talk -and other planned to have around 75 employers about their Fair so the numbers are ing with aspects of the to 100. It’s neat to see that opportunities before the slightly lower, ” Monahan recruiters, he job hunting number of students wanting career fair,” Ferguson said. 
“The career fairs are 
said. “The Career Center said students process. to network. The alumni The reception will be held 
one of the best ways
was very proactive in its need to create “The Career response was also amaz -on Wednesday from noon to outreach to employers and I a 20 -second to get a job ... I Center has ing.” 2:30 p.m. in the Joyce believe this effort shows in introduction, hosted Career Yuen was offered a job Center Monogram Room. 
started going
the strong numbers of i n c l u d i n g Fair prepara -from the Fall Career Fair at Ferguson said the reception 
freshman year. It
employers who are coming name, major, tion workshops Deloitte Consulting. is open to all students. to campus.” year, interests, gives you a lot of for the various “The career fairs are one “Diversity is an all-inclu-
Monahan said the reason skills and exposure” colleges and of the best ways to get a sive concept, and many most often given by employ-questions for several student job,” Yuen said. “I started employers will be on hand ers not attending the Career the recruiter. clubs, 14 going freshman year. It to discuss the role diversity 
Kristine Yuen 
Fair was a reduction in “Every inter-evening prepa-gives you a lot of exposure.” plays in their organization,” recruiting budgets. action with a senior ration sessions Yuen said the career fairs Ferguson said. 
“Landing a job or intern-p o t e n t i a l in residence can be intimidating, but Monahan said that there ship in this type of economic employer will halls, office coming prepared helps. are more programs avail ­climate takes more effort. form an impression. That hours in Fitzpatrick, Jordan, “Do a lot of research on able through the Career It is not enough to just apply being said, dress and act LaFortune, Mendoza and companies, ” Yuen said. Center of which job or online — students who have professionally, ” Monahan O’Shaughnessy and finally, “Everybody’s trying to find a internship seeking students been experiencing the most said. “Students should bring we will hold a ‘Last Minute job. Companies want to see can take advantage. success have several copies Career Fair Prep Workshop’ you’re genuinely interested “Although the fair is phe­been reaching of their on Tuesday in them, nomenal way to meet out to employ-résumés and evening in otherwise employers and further indi­
“Landing a job or 
ers, network -notepad for DeBartolo,” they won ’t vidual internship or job 
internship in this type “Diversity is an
ing with alum-jotting down M o n a h a n be interest-searches, students should ni, attending of economic climate information, said. “There all-inclusive concept, and ed in you.” not limit themselves to just career events takes more effort. It is recruit er’s will be sev-many employers will be on Yuen said the fair, ” Monahan said. and preparing names and e-eral employ-composure “There are several 
not enough to just hand to discuss the role
for interviews mail address-ers in atten-and a calm resources the Career Center 
— in addition apply online.” es.” dance on diversity plays in their a t t i t u d e can use to assist students in to applying to Monahan the Tuesday organization.” will go far their career and internship jobs or intern-said the evening pro-w i t h efforts.” 
Kevin Monahan 
s h i p s , ” Career Center gram to recruiters. Monahan said students 
associate director LaTonia Fergusonk 
M o n a h a n is experienc -offer tips “ F i n d pursuing unpaid internships 
Notre Dame Career Center
said. “These ing higher and advice. career counselor time to still could receive money for steps require traffic in T h e s e Diversity Career Programs relax in their work through the a fair amount of time and so preparation of the Career efforts are long lines. University. patience and persistence Fair. in addition Eavesdrop “The Career Center has are important in the “The office ’s scheduled to our usual walk -in and and pick up things not to funding programs to help search.” and walk -in appointments scheduled appointments.” say. You’ll see the recruiter students afford internships,” 
In light of the competitive have been busy,” Monahan Kristine Yuen, Notre Dame grimace and know not to say he said. “There are six sep­nature of the job and intern-said. “It is good to see stu-senior and double major in that, ” Yuen said. “The arate funds, each is ship search, Monahan said dents using the Center ’s Information Technology recruiters have two piles of designed to support differ-that preparation is key. resources for interest Management and Chinese, résumés: good and bad. You ent areas. For example, the Students should have their assessments, career explo-created “Mastering the Art want to stay out of the bad Rogers Arts & Letters résumés reviewed by Career ration, alumni networking, of Networking,” a workshop pile.” Majors Fund could sponsor Center staff and consider job shadowing and extern-that was held on Jan. 16. Before the Career Fair, the 50 unpaid interns this sum-what sets them apart from ships, internship funding The program consisted of Career Center will also host mer.” other applicants. needs, in addition to the student and alumni panel a Diversity Fair Reception, 
Monahan emphasized the internship and job search followed by a networking LaTonia Ferguson, a career Contact Amanda Gray at need for setting expecta -assistance.” session. counselor in the Diversity agray3@nd.edu 

Editor 
continued from page 1 
ing of former Irish coach Charlie Weis and the hiring of Brian Kelly as his replace­ment. 
“Matt has gone above and beyond expectations this year as Sports Editor, specifi­cally in football coverage and multimedia Web extras,” out­going Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz said. “I have full confi­dence he will be a great leader and continue to help the paper improve over the next year.” 
Gamber said he is confi­dent he can build on The Observer’s “strong founda­tion and tradition” in work­ing with the rest of the Editorial Board during his tenure. 
“I am excited to take on the added responsibilities this position entails,” he said. 
Gamber will take over as Editor-in-Chief on March 1. 

The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 10 Monday, February 1, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber 
SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
A not-so-new war 

Thanks to Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab’s — also known as the underpants bomber — attempted Christmas gift, the United States is beginning to take a much keener inter­est in Yemen. The poorest Arab coun-
James Napier
try, it is also the base for Al-Qaeda 
Demarcating
in the Arabian 
Democracy

Peninsula which likely trained and supplied the now infamous underpants bomber. According to CNN, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton met with other world leaders last Wednesday to dis­cuss ways to help Yemen improve its economy and fight terrorism. 
To date, the United States has sup­plied Yemen with a great deal of money, arms and military support over the past several years. This support began under Bush but has continued unabated under the Obama adminis­tration. 
Unfortunately, years of military back­ing has done very little to improve the security situation or increase govern­ment control of the country. In fact, many analysts agree Yemen is a coun­try teetering on the brink. The current government led by President Ali Abdullah Saleh faces an armed Houthi rebellion in the north and a secession­ist movement in the south. Additionally, the government only holds limited sway outside of the capital city, Sana’a, as a result of the very fractal tribal system. 
To compound the country’s political problems, Yemen has few natural resources and very little water. The lit­tle oil the country has is rapidly dimin­ishing and so is the water. According to several news agencies including the Washington Times, Sana’a will run out of water within the next 10 or 15 years. The prospect of nearly two mil­lion people without access to safe water is a frightening one indeed. But the problem is not only in the capital — access to water is quite limited throughout the country. The minimum amount of water to which a person is supposed to have access is 1,000 cubic meters but on average, any Yemeni is estimated to have access to no more than 200 cubic meters a year. 
Though it is scary to think parts of the country outside government control 
— which actually constitutes much of the country — offers safe havens to ter­rorist organizations plotting against the United States. However, no simple reaction — whether economic or mili­tary — to the recent failed attack will solve the situation. Yemen has been a political basket case for the better part of the last half of the twentieth century. Attacks on U.S. personnel is not exactly uncommon in the country; nor is it uncommon for Yemeni citizens to be found fighting Americans in Iraq or Afghanistan. Roughly 100 of the remaining detainees at Guantanamo Bay are Yemeni. This most recent attack should be put into perspective. 
Knowing there are dangerous people operating a country is not the same as knowing how to neutralize the threat. This is not to say military operations are pointless but that they are of limit­ed value. Military strikes and training should be carried out when feasible but should not be the centerpiece of U.S. foreign policy towards Yemen. Also, giving hundreds of millions of dollars to an extremely corrupt government with limited accountability is generally a very bad idea. 
A successful policy must include dia­logue with the tribes and a solid eco­nomic component. While it can be argued that dialogue with anyone other than the official government will undermine stability, many of the worlds greatest problems have been caused or exacerbated by a lack of communication. If the tribal areas are where Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula is hiding then that is where America must go. Taking Iraq as an example, the insurgency was dealt a significant blow when American com­manders began talking to local leaders and actually listening to them. There is no reason a similar approach will not work in Yemen. As for the economic situation, this is too complex to be dealt with in depth in such a limited space but a good place to start is to secure safe drinking water and begin instituting sustainable development practices. 
Last year, America gave the Yemeni government nearly $80 million — the most recent investment in the past sev­eral years — and from this money America has seen little return. If a bet­ter and more peaceful future is desired for both America and Yemen then our officials in government must start con­sidering long-term solutions and not political gambits. Too often, America’s foreign policy has been fueled by short­sighted policies. Allowing Yemen to be added to this long laundry list of fail­ures would prove disastrous for all interested parties. 
James Napier is a senior history major. He can be contacted at jnapier@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

EDITORIAL CARTOON 

News Viewpoint 
OBSERVER POLL 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

Katie Peralta Lianna Irena Zajickova Brauweiler Signing day is Feb. 3. Which commit Kristin Durbin Sports will have the best ND career? Graphics Laura Myers 
“Happiness lies neither in vice nor

Louis Nix (DT) 
in virtue; but in the manner we 

Mary Cecilia Chris Masoud Andrew Hendrix (QB) 
appreciate the one and the other, 

Mitsch Kevin Baldwin 
and the choice we make pursuant

Tai-ler Jones (WR 
Scene 
to our individual organization.” 

Cameron Roberson (RB) Caitlin Ferraro Other 
Marquis De SadeFrench writer 

Vote by Thursday at 5 p.m. at www.ndsmcobserver.com. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Monday, February 1, 2010 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Reasons to celebrate 
To my fellow lesbian, gay, bisexu­al, transgender and queer persons in the Notre Dame community, 
I have to admit, I’m still a little shocked about this whole cartoon controversy: I had no idea people still called us “fruits.” (Are gays also still accused of being light in their loafers? If so, please let my uncle know: he loves that one.) 
This letter is addressed to you specifically in response to this uni­versity’s uncanny ability to have a discussion about gays without ever actually acknowledging our flesh­and-blood existence here, much less inviting us into the conversation. When I was still a student at Notre Dame, about three years ago now, I engaged in countless debates about gays and homosexuality and Church teaching as if it were some theologi­cal case study and not the story of my life. So, in the understanding that we are not talking about issues so much as individuals, I want to suggest some ways that you might address this situation on campus, in the hope of transforming it from an offense to an opportunity. 
First, be brave. If you are able to be out, to insist that homophobes address you directly when they use dehumanizing slurs and violent jokes, please do. If you can’t be out right now, then at least refuse to take part in homophobic culture. Long after you’ve forgotten that guy’s name who called everybody fags, you’ll remember that you never laughed. 
Second, be loud. Wear that fabu­lous outfit, swing your hips and punctuate each sentence with a snap. We deserve way more than tolerance. This is a question of our very right to exist — not as lonely souls with disordered tendencies, but as full humans with brilliant ideas and loud mouths. And, for God’s sake, don’t wear a shirt that asks, “Gay? Fine by me.” If any­thing, “Gay. Really don’t care who it’s fine by.” 
Third, be inclusive. If you think you’re the only group of people at that school who feels feared, exclud­ed and unwanted, you’re not. Go talk to racial minorities, low-wage workers, non-Christians and others. Perhaps more than hearing a demand for a true “Spirit of Inclusion,” the University needs to see one in action. 
Finally, be happy. Believe it or not, Notre Dame is making progress. When I first saw The Observer arti­cle about the protest over the car­toon, I was inexplicably happy. Then I realized why: “No Home Under the Dome.” That’s saying something; it’s a sad point, but the fact that people (200 of them, to be exact, including 40 faculty members) made it, loudly and in public, is supremely encour­aging. I’m willing to guess that that’s a record turnout for a gay rights rally on this campus. 
Undeniably, “The Mobile Party’s” illustrated hate crime gag was as depressing as it was shocking. And The Observer’s tepid response was hardly redemptive. But if all it takes is a puerile cartoon to mobilize hun­dreds of people in support of LGBTQ rights, then let’s keep this party moving. 
Patrick Wall 
alumnus class of 2007 Jan. 29 
Jenkins disappoints 
As an ally of the LGBT communi­ty at Notre Dame, I was extremely enthused to see and experience the participation by students, fac­ulty and community members dur­ing Wednesday’s “No Home Under the Dome” silent protest and march. The amount of support that was shown by the Notre Dame community was inspiring and those who participated should be commended for their courage, respect and convictions. This posi­tivity, however, was clouded by the unwillingness of the administra­tion to hear the voice of their stu­dents. 
The five students who wished to deliver a letter expressing the dis­content of their community were denied access to the Main Building. Furthermore, eight times as many faculty and staff members were also denied access. It was not until much later that a representative showed up to take the letter without much more than a single word to the group await­ing a response. Fr. Jenkins should be ashamed. Outside of his administration building, he had well over 200 people who cared enough to bring him a letter. He has students who are willing to engage in a conversation and open a dialogue regarding an issue that is often too taboo to discuss on this campus. Rather than accept­ing the letter and agreeing to open this dialogue, the administration set obstacles in the way of a group that was offering nothing more than a peaceful, silent protest. 
If Jenkins wants us to believe that the “Spirit of Inclusion” encompasses all that the LGBT community and its allies need at this school, his unwillingness to hear from them acts as a slap in the face and in direct opposition to what the “Spirit of Inclusion” is supposed to mean. Don’t get me wrong; Wednesday’s events were a huge step, and I do not mean to diminish the work done by any­one. It is embarrassing to me, as a student at this university and as an ally to the LGBT community, that no stronger effort was made to hear from the students. This university exists because of its student body and a blatant blind eye to their intentions and needs is going to perpetuate the homo­phobia, bigotry and “other-ness” that has been seen over the past decade, and more recently in let­ters from Sean Mullen and the cartoon from The Observer. 

I didn’t expect to hear a decision on the spot. I didn’t expect an immediate rewriting of the non­discrimination clause. I expected a level of decency and respect from the administration regarding the quality of life of the student body. I am inspired by the steps taken by the students and faculty on Jan. 27, and extraordinarily dis­heartened by the sluggish and non-responsive administration. Regardless of the issue, the administration should never actively seek to silence the voices of their students, especially when they have already had to silence themselves. 
Will Haley 
senior off campus Jan. 28 
Understanding homosexuality 
Although I hope people like Tom Neild are in the minority at Notre Dame with their narrow-minded bigotry, I become skeptical of this hope when I pick up The Observer and read viewpoints like Tom’s. What Tom does not seem to understand in his letter “Legally bound to Catholic teachings” (Jan. 28) is that homosexuality is not a choice. To suggest that homosex­uality should not be tolerated like steal­ing is not tolerated in the Catholic doc­trine is to suggest that homosexuals choose to engage in morally deviant behavior like stealing. 
I cannot stress this enough. Homosexuality is not a disease. It is not a “lifestyle” that people choose to live. Homosexuals are human beings. They are not social deviants. They share this university with us, this country with us and this world with us. I think Tom — and any other person who shares Tom’s sentiments toward homosexuals — should first of all meet a homosexual so they can come to know one. If that is too frightening of an experience for people like Tom, they should watch Gus Van Sant’s 2008 film “Milk.” Harvey Milk, por­trayed by Sean Penn, reminds us at the end of the film that the movement for homosexual rights is “about the ‘us’s’ out there,” and that “without hope, the us’s give up.” I indeed hope that people like Tom can reform their outlook on homo­sexuals and that the homosexual move­ment, especially on this campus, can con­tinue to push forward. 
Anthony Matthew Durkin 
senior off campus Jan. 28 
Innsbruck program will be missed 
There has been no shortage of letters concerning the cancellation of the Innsbruck program, but we believe that, as current students, we have a unique perspective. While we hope the program does somehow reemerge, we think that this letter would be better served praising the program, instead of questioning OIS’ decision. 
The opportunities and experiences we have this year may be unparalleled by any other study-abroad program. We begin the year with a month of intensive German (six hours a day) in Salzburg, the home of Mozart, Silent Night, Stiegl and, of course, The Sound of Music. It could be the quin­tessential European city. We were able to go on a weekend trip to Vienna with our program director and, for many of us, visit locations like Stefansdom or Café Sacher which we learned about in our German classes. It was a great way for us to bond, to be eased into life in a foreign country and to refresh our German skills. 
Our classes in Innsbruck are all held with professors who have spent ten years or more with the program. These are teachers who understand the struggles non-native speakers have and they are also teachers who genuinely care about the students and the program. Every one of them has expressed how much they will miss teaching Notre Dame students. This is a relationship that few, if any, other stu­dents studying in Innsbruck receive. It is very clear that at Austrian universities, neither the professors nor the university is concerned with the students. This isn’t a shot at their system, but it should be known that it is a radically different sys­tem from what we have at Notre Dame. 
The greatest appeal of the Berlin pro­gram appears to be the “prestige” or the opportunity for “elite learning opportuni­ties.” However, one must consider what kinds of language skills are required for this. To take a course where the professor neither knows nor cares that German is a second language is to say that you have the same language skills as the students sitting around you. Students who them­selves are in the very top of their talent pool and who have been speaking the lan­guage their entire lives. The language skills required to succeed in this environ­ment cannot be developed at Notre Dame 
— a student would practically need to have lived in a German-speaking country before they could achieve this level. Unfortunately, judging from the way the Berlin program was presented to us, none of us would have been at the level required. 
Finally, we have our wonderful program director, Gernot Guertler, and his wife Anita, who put in hours upon hours to make this program the best it can be. We are personally matched up with guest families with whom we eat, visit and learn how Austrian families live. In the student dorm we live in, we are completely sur­rounded by native Austrian, German and European students. In one hallway we have students from Austria, Germany, Italy, Romania, Bosnia, Poland, Luxembourg, Sweden, Spain and Taiwan. And we think students from every year will agree that German is better learned in a communal kitchen than in a classroom. 
We would like to thank the Guertlers, our professors, our guest families and all of the returnees who helped us to make this semester so personal and so enjoy­able. Fourteen more students arrive for the semester in less than two weeks. It is a shame that we will be the last 22 students to have this opportunity. 
Eric Boettcher 
junior 
John Greil 
junior 
Kevin Padden 
sophomore 
Dan Russ 
junior 
Maria Serakos 
sophomore 
Kate Von Hoffman 
junior 
Melissa Wagner 
sophomore 
Ann Weber 
junior off campus Jan. 28 

The Observer 

Scene
page 12 Monday, February 1, 2010 

By TATIANA SPRAGINS 
Scene Writer 

The DeBartolo Performing Arts Center hosted a showing of the documentary, “The End of Poverty?” a film directed by Philippe Diaz about poverty primari­ly in Latin America and Africa, on Saturday. 
Filmed in less than eight months by a two-per­son crew of only the director and producer, “The End of Poverty?” is about the alarming increase in poverty around the globe despite a worldwide growth in wealth. 
By talking to professionals about the mat­ter in several different countries as well as conducting interviews with people and fami­lies who live on less than $1 a day, the film highlights important issues about poverty, namely how it began, where and why it exists, and what are the implications of this for our lives in the future. 
A distinctive feature about Diaz’s approach to poverty is to explain the reasons why it began. The economists, historians and scholars interviewed dis­cussed the history of colonialism and the imprint it leaves until this day in most third world countries where poverty is predominant. By providing an insight into the history of a culture and of the colo­nial-imperial relationship — which prevailed throughout the 17th, 18th and even 19th centuries — the viewer can understand that the reasons for poverty in these countries is so rooted in its country’s historical background and that poverty is far from being an easy fix. 
Natives to a country discussed the loss of culture, and how the white European would arrive with “a Bible in one hand, and a weapon in the other.” However, the three issues highlighted as a conse­quence of colonialism and which, ultimately, are what prevent a country from climbing out of its conditions are trade, debt and monopoly. For example, it was men­tioned that sub-Saharan Africa is paying $25,000 a minute in inter­national debt. The film asks, how many schools and hospi­tals could be built with that 
money? The focus soon shifted from the historical reasons for colonial­
ism to what the conse­quences of this history are, from international debt to the poor individ­ual’s view of his or her placement in society. Finally, the documen­tary took a turn towards dis­cussing how a similar structure to imperialism still exists today 
between countries of the north and of the south. Namely, at how the United States is the new super­power dictating the rules for underdeveloped coun­tries to abide by. 
With a documentary on poverty, the possibilities are endless. In “The End of Poverty?” a unique feature is its very clear and instructive explanation for why poverty exists and that its origins are deeply rooted in historical issues. As well as instructive, the people interviewed included a perfect balance, from a well-educated scholar (in a comfy couch and a fancy desk lamp) to father of six who works 15 hours a day to make $6. 
However, “The End of Poverty?” lacks in one simple aspect. It does not create any hope nor is it very emo­tionally appealing. It provides a background and hard facts, but does not instruct the viewer on what he or she can do their part to fix the situation. As it reached the end, the documentary began to focus more on pointing fingers at who is preventing things from getting better than actually suggesting a way in which the viewer can do his or her part in aiding this global issue. 
It seems that the film simply sank into its comfort­able seat as it sadly said that there isn’t anything we can do unless the northern superpowers change the way they handle capitalism, which is neither an effective nor an inspiring conclusion to such a devas­tating and powerful theme. 
Interesting at first, instructive without a doubt, but, unfortunately, “The End of Poverty?” fails to live up to its expectations, and to what it could have been. 
Contact Tatiana Spragins at tspragin@nd.edu 


By PATRICK GRIFFIN 
Assistant Scene Editor 

For young entrepreneur and Notre Dame freshman Tim Weber, music is more than just a passion or a hobby. 
“I absolutely love music. I believe that college students listen to the best music.” Weber, a resident of Knott Hall, has turned this personal credo into a rapidly growing web­site called GoodMusicAllDay.com geared toward the musi­cal interests of young adults. 
Hailing from Wilmington, Del., Weber has always gravi­tated towards a musical calling. Formerly a guitarist and vocalist, he began doubting his ability to advance as a per­former. The trajectory of his passion thus shifted from per­formance to sharing. More recently, Weber developed an inclination toward producing music of various genres such as hip-hop and alternative. Weber’s exploration of the pro­duction side of music led to the genesis of his Web site. 
GoodMusicAllDay’s mission is simple: to publicize and share the music that interests college students. The site’s interface closely resembles a blog, with daily entries fea­turing artist descriptions, videos, links, and published opin­ions. For music savvy fans, the site may resemble other music advocacy Web sites such as nahright.com, aur­gasm.us, and even Kanye West’s official blog. The distinc­tion, of course, is a focus towards collegiate interests. 
As founders and operators of the Web site, Weber and fellow Notre Dame freshman Tim Ryan of Siegfried, were careful to consult Notre Dame’s Office of Information Technologies’ rules, as well as copyright laws, when devel­oping the site to ensure that all content on the site is legal. GoodMusicAllDay does not allow peer-to-peer sharing. However, all content may be previewed and even down­loaded free of charge. Downloaded music is iPod ready immediately upon completion. 
GoodMusicAllDay.com officially launched on Dec. 1, a lit­tle more than a month after its conception in late October. Originally restricted to the Notre Dame community, the site has expanded largely without advertisement. Word of mouth exported the news of the Web site beyond the Notre Dame bubble, and now GoodMusicAllDay.com boasts roughly 1,000 views a day. 
The Web site’s popularity was also boosted by exclusive interviews with emerging artists, and later, the sponsor­ships of various mixtapes submitted expressly by musi­cians. GoodMusicAllDay.com has been officially recognized by the likes of Chip Tha Ripper, the Incomparable Shakespeare, DJ Trackstar and even Kid Cudi. 
Though Weber claims a wide variety of musical interests, he admits that country music and metal are turnoffs. A dis­tinct hip-hop flavor is palpable in the entries of the web­site. Visitors to GoodMusicAllDay will encounter plenty of underground rappers, DJ’s, and some indie and jam bands. Weber collects submissions from up-and-coming artists as well as fan submissions. Though each submission is reviewed and rated, Weber contends that irtually all sug­gestions submitted to the site are posted, provided that the music is worthy of the attention and praise of college stu­dents. 
Weber boasts that his Web site’s most appealing feature is its recently completed list of 2009 top fives. Visit this sec­tion of GoodMusicAllDay to hear the top five mash-ups, covers, beats and more from last year. Like all other sub­missions, each track may be previewed and downloaded. 
Though GoodMusicAllDay is still in its infantile stages, Weber has high hopes for the site and his own career. He is optimistic that the Web site will continue to receive more views and submissions. In fact, GoodMusicAllDay is sched­uled to drop its first official mixtape on March 1 of this year. The mixtape, which will feature exclusive tracks available only through GoodMusicAllDay, is expected to feature seven to eight artists and roughly 15 tracks. 
As for his own career, Weber says that his dream is to become the CEO of a major record label. Certainly he is on the right path with his unwavering love of music and atten­tion to new and exciting trends. However, given the swift success of GoodMusicAllDay, he may soon find his hands full with the requests and attention of a quickly growing fan base. 
Contact Patrick Griffin at pgriffi3@nd.edu 
Observer Graphic I MARY CECILIA MITSCH 
The Observer 

Scene
Monday, February 1, 2010 page 13 



By CAITLIN FERRARO 
Assistant Scene Editor 
The 52nd annual Grammys took place last night at the Staples Center in Los Angeles. Heading into the night Beyoncé led the nominations with 10 followed by Taylor Swift 

with eight, and the Black Eyed Peas, Maxwell and Kanye West with six each. 
The night began early on the red carpet with a plethora of stars from The Jonas Brothers to Paramour to T-Pain. Justin Bieber jammed to Rock Band while Russell Brand and Katy Perry talked about their recent engagement. Other notable cou­ples that strutted their stuff together included Seal and Heidi Klum, Nicole Kidman and Keith Urban, and Josh Duhamel and Fergie. But who let in Mike “The Situation” Sorrentino and Nicole “Snooki” Polizzi? Or the guy from “American 
Idol” who sang “Pants on the Ground?” As far as fashion is concerned some stars shone, while others disappointed. Katy Perry wore a Zac Posen dress inspired by her recent trip to India, but it was a bit lackluster. Lady Gaga did not hesitate to wear some­thing outrageous, and turned up in a white Armani dress that was rem­iniscent of a piece of mod­ern artwork. Black Eyed Peas’ member Taboo wore a horrible space-suit outfit, but Fergie’s tight, bright blue mini dress was beauti­ful and made up for his fail­ure. Travis Barker of Blink­182 fame did not even both­er to dress up, but his son was an adorable accessory. Keri Hilson was stunning in a beige Dolce and Gabbana number with a beautiful jeweled waistband. Artists from her label Iyaz and Jason DeRulo escorted “American Idol” judge Kara DioGuardi. She looked great, but DeRulo did not even care to tuck in his shirt. Jennifer Hudson rocked some outrageous bangs, while the newly engaged Carrie Underwood looked beautiful even if her white gown had an odd geometric pattern. Carey Hart and P!ink made a handsome couple, as the usually casual Hart dressed up in a great suit. She wore an absolutely stunning sparkling mer­
maid cut dress with a folded detailed bust. The multi-colored bottom added to a rocker edge to a classy dress. 
Kidman wore a long, elegant black Prada gown. Both Swift and Beyoncé looked gorgeous in tight, form-fitting numbers. The former being a deep blue, and the latter a shade of beige. Ke$ha failed to impress in a costume-like dress complete with fringe and over the top makeup. And Imogen Heap accessorized her already strange dress with an umbrella. 
“Glee’s” Lea Michele sported a one shoulder ruched black short dress that was a last minute decision after a fashion snafu. She was planning on wearing a white gown that she discovered last minute was see through. Rihanna’s white dress was more successful, with over­sized pockets, a feathered high neck col­lar, and open back. 
Overall, the pattern of the evening seemed to be nude colored dresses. Ashanti, Klum, Beyoncé and Hilson all sported flesh-toned gowns. 
The Grammys did not have a host this year, but perhaps Stephen Colbert should have received the job after opening the show with many laughs. He brought his daughter along to assess his coolness, made fun of Adam Lambert and even showed off his new iPad. Colbert later earned a Grammy for Best Comedy Album. 
The Grammys were full of performanc­es in which artists pulled out all the stops. Lady Gaga kicked off the night with help from Elton John, back up dancers, and a piano with arms jetting out of the top. 
Green Day, who would later win Best Rock Album, also performed with cast of the new Broadway musical “American Idiot” inspired by their music. This will likely help promote the show, as the cast was fantastic. 
Beyoncé performed in a fierce black outfit with SWAT team members dressed up as her back up dancers. Her song of choice was “If I were a Boy” with a hint of Alanis Morrisette’s old hit “You Oughta Know.” P!nk then performed in an odd outfit, in which her hooded silver robe eventually revealed a nude-colored body­suit to which she hung from the air to perform aerial ballet. 
The Black Eyed Peas started their per­formance with the fourth single of their latest record, “Imma Be” which eventu­ally transitioned into their hit “I Gotta Feeling.” The song won them Pop Performance by a Duo or Group With Vocals. Fergie sported a visor, and the group was backed up with robot dancers clad in all silver. Fans had previously sent in videos and pictures that flashed across screen in the background. The performance appeared to be a crowd pleaser. The group also won Pop Vocal Album. 
Recently crowned Best New Artist win­ner Zac Brown Band took the stage to perform with legend Leon Russell. 
Swift first performed her latest single “Today Was A Fairytale” from the upcoming film “Valentine’s Day” in which she costars. She was joined onstage by one of her childhood favorites Stevie Nicks. The duo sang two songs together including a remixed version of “You Belong With Me”. 
One of the gimmicks of the evening was that fans could vote to choose what song Bon Jovi would perform. Choices were “It’s My Life,” “Livin’ On A Prayer,” and “Always.” It was Bon Jovi’s first ever Grammy performance and after per­forming two other songs, the viewers chose “Livin’ On A Prayer.” 
Lionel Richie presented the Michael Jackson 3-D Tribute in which Celine Dion, Hudson, Smokey Robinson, Underwood and Usher performed in conjunction with a recording of Jackson’s “Earth Song.” The crowd wore 3-D glasses to fully enjoy the performance. Then, Prince and Paris Jackson accompanied by their cousins accepted an award on behalf of their father. 
Mary J. Blige and Andrea Bocelli also performed a powerful duet in honor of Haiti. The two sang beautifully together, with Bocelli integrating Italian into the piece. 
Drake, Eminem and Lil Wayne performed together with Barker on drums. In the Rap arena, Eminem received two Grammys for Rap Album, and Rap Performance by a Duo or Group for his collaboration “Crack a Bottle,” with Dr. Dre and 50 Cent. 
Lady Antebellum, (winner of Country Performance by a Duo or Group With Vocals) Jamie Foxx with T-Pain (win­ner of R&B Performance by a Duo or Group With Vocals), and Dave Matthews Band, and Maxwell (win­ner of Male R&B Vocal Performance and R&B Album) also performed. 
The queen of nominations Beyoncé was off to a great start when the show began and she won Song of the Year for “Single Ladies (Put a Ring On It). She would also win Female R&B Vocal Performance and R&B Song for the same song, Female Pop Vocal Performance for “Halo,” Traditional R&B Vocal Performance for “At Last”, and Contemporary R&B Album. In the end, she took home six tro­phies. 
And the princess of nomina­tions, Swift picked up a Grammy for Best Country Album. She also received Female Country Vocal Performance and Country Song for her single “White Horse.” Swift also won the arguably most prestige Grammy of the night Album of the Year for Fearless. In her speeches Swift thanked her recording label for letting her write all her songs, and her family especially her brother and parents. 
Best Record of the Year went to Kings of Leon for their song “Use Somebody.” Rap/Sung Collaboration went to Jay-Z, Rihanna and West for “Run This Town.” Jay-Z also won Rap Solo Performance. Male Pop Vocal went to Jason Mraz. The eclectic Lady Gaga won Dance Recording for “Poker Face,” and Electronic/Dance Album for The Fame. 
For a complete list of winners visit GRAMMY.com 
Contact Caitlin Ferraro at 
cferrar1@nd.edu 

MARY CECILIA MITSCH | Observer Graphic 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Monday, February 1, 2010 
AUSTRALIAN OPEN 

Murray falters, Federer cruises to 16th major 
Associated Press 
MELBOURNE, Australia — Roger Federer felt awkward for a moment, celebrating his 16th Grand Slam title while Andy Murray cried for Britain. 
Federer timed his run to per­fection at the season’s first major, beating fifth-seeded Murray 6-3, 6-4, 7-6 (11) in the Sunday night final to collect his fourth Australian Open title. 
A year ago, Federer was sob­bing after a five-set loss to Rafael Nadal at Melbourne Park. He’d missed a chance to equal Pete Sampras’ record of 14 Grand Slams, compounding an emotional few weeks. 
Since then he finally won on clay at the French Open to com­plete a career Grand Slam of all four majors and equal Sampras’ record. Then he triumphed at Wimbledon for his 15th record title. He also became a father of twins. 
This time, it was Murray who was fighting tears after missing a chance to become the first British man since 1936 to win a major. 
Federer, however, enjoys mak­ing history. This was his 22nd Grand Slam final, his 18th in the last 19, and he compared this triumph with last year’s Wimbledon win. 
“This felt similar in a way, because all of a sudden it was over and it hit me,” he said. “It was very much a rollercoaster with the emotions. I guess the match point was over, and I was like, ‘Oh, my God, this is it. It was great.” 
Not so much for Murray, who drew deep breaths as he apolo­gized for failing to end a 74­year-old drought for British men. 
“Firstly, congratulations Roger, his achievements in ten­nis are incredible,” he said. “He was a lot better than me tonight. 
“Hopefully, one time I can come back and win here,” he added, his voice breaking. “I got great support back home the last couple of weeks. Sorry I couldn’t do it for you tonight but ...” 
Murray could barely finish his thank you, explaining: “I can cry like Roger; it’s just a shame I can’t play like him.” 
Both the crowd and Federer embraced Murray’s display of emotion. 
“In a way it was hard to watch, but at the same time I like seeing players who care for the game,” Federer said. “It’s nice to see, you know. So you wish only the best for him.” 
And Federer, who had to be consoled by Nadal last year, offered Murray some reassur­ance. 
“Well done for your incredible tournament; you played it fan­tastic,” Federer said. “You’re too good of a player not to win a Grand Slam, so don’t worry about it.” 
Federer dropped serve only twice in the match and hit 46 winners. He said he felt as good as ever. 
“I’m over the moon winning this again. I think I played some of my best tennis in my life these last two weeks,” he said. 
Federer saved five set points and wasted two match points in the tiebreaker with some uncharacteristic shot selection before clinching it when Murray netted a backhand after 2 hours, 41 minutes. 
Murray was desperate to become the first British man since Fred Perry in 1936 to win one of the four tennis majors, but seldom had the answers to Federer’s unrivaled finals expe­rience. He set a record for British men just by reaching two major finals in the Open era. 
“I don’t feel great,” Murray said. “I think it was more the way the end of the match fin­ished ... Obviously, it was pretty emotional end to the match. 
“If it was a complete blowout, if I lost 3, 4, and 2, you know, it probably wouldn’t have hap­pened. But I had my chance to get back into the match. That was probably why I was upset.” 

Federer also beat Murray in straight sets in the 2008 U.S. Open final, the only previous meeting between the pair at a Grand Slam. 
Murray still holds a 6-5 advantage over Federer in career head-to-heads — one of only four players who can boast such an advantage — but has lost the last three. 
Last year, Federer had just discovered — unknown widely at the time — that he was to be the father of twins. 
The emotions bubbled over after his loss to Nadal. But he recovered from that defeat to win at the French Open. 
He won Wimbledon before his twin daughters were born. Federer reached his fourth Grand Slam final of the year at the U.S. Open, only to lose in an upset to Juan Martin del Potro. 
Federer ensured no recur­rence of the upset here, though, adding the 2010 title to his wins at Melbourne Park in 2004, 2006 and ‘07, becoming only the fifth man to win four Australian titles. 
American Andre Agassi, who won the last of his four here in 2003, was the last father to win a Grand Slam title. 
“It’s also very special the first Grand Slam as a father,” Federer said as his wife, Mirka, smiled and clapped from the stands, almost crying herself. “You get the best out of me.” 
Federer got on top early, tak­ing a 2-0 lead. But Murray broke back immediately with consecutive passing shots — one which the Swiss star even had to applaud. 
Federer had to save three break points in the fifth game before holding with back-to­back aces. He then broke Murray in the eighth game, lift­ing his intensity in perfect time so that he could serve for the set. 
Federer dominated the second set after breaking Murray’s serve in the third game, but his intensity dropped slightly in the third. 
MLB 

Twins optimistic of contract extension for MVP Maur 
without an announcement of this spring. anybody. I don’t see who, though removed from the 
Associated Press 

the Mauer megadeal “I’m just letting it happen. I other than maybe some clubs process, wasn’t worried. 
MINNEAPOLIS — The Minnesotans have been hoping don’t sit and fret about it,” out east.” “I’ll be happy when he does Minnesota Twins started their for, that sure-to-be-expensive Gardenhire said earlier in the Mauer is making $12.5 mil-sign. He can buy me a beer. annual winter gala with guarantee of keeping the day at Target Field, where the lion this season, the last year Probably two. Maybe three,” everything a baseball fan with American League MVP in his Twins are moving this year. “I of his current contract. He’ll he said, chuckling. cabin fever could want on a hometown for the foreseeable think the right thing is going be eligible for free agency in With Target Field blanketed cold night: autographs from future. to happen. I think we all the fall if no new deal is in in snow and the temperature the players, batting cages and Mauer and the Twins have know. I think we all know the place, a scenario that wouldn’t near zero, TwinsFest was held meat smoking on the grill. been steadfastly quiet about ramifications if something bode well for the Twins given at the usual Metrodome spot. 
Everything except that con-any negotiations, but manager were not to happen and it the interest the soon-to-be-27-Mauer was, of course, the cen­tract extension for Joe Mauer. Ron Gardenhire expressed would go the other way. That year-old would attract on the ter of attention wherever he 
TwinsFest began on Friday optimism a deal will get done wouldn’t be a good thing for open market. But Gardenhire, wandered. 
CLASSIFIEDS  The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit  
all classifieds for content without issuing refunds.  
Indiana Jones: Listen. Since I've  Saavik: Permission to speak freely,  
FOR RENT  PERSONAL  UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do  met you I've nearly been incinerat­ed, drowned, shot at, and chopped  sir? Kirk: Granted.  Red: [narrating] I find I'm so excit­ 
not go it alone. Notre Dame has  into fish bait. We're caught in the  Saavik: I do not believe this was a  ed, I can barely sit still or hold a  
many resources in place to assist  middle of something sinister here,  fair test of my command abilities.  thought in my head. I think it's the  
you. If you or someone you love  my guess is dad found out more  Kirk: And why not?  excitement only a free man can  
needs confidential support or assis­ than he was looking for and until I'm  Saavik: Because... there was no  feel, a free man at the start of a  
If you or someone you care about  tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at  sure, I'm going to continue to do  way to win.  long journey whose conclusion is  
has been sexually assaulted, we  1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For  things the way I think they should  Kirk: A no-win situation is a possibil­ uncertain. I hope I can make it  
gradrentals.viewwork.com  can help. For more information, visit  more information, visit ND's web  be done.  ity every commander may face. Has  across the border. I hope to see my  
Notre Dame's website:  site:  [after commandeering a plane]  that never occurred to you?  friend, and shake his hand. I hope  
http.csap.nd.edu  http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu  Professor Henry Jones: I didn't  Saavik: No, sir, it has not.  the Pacific is as blue as it has been  
know you could fly a plane.  Kirk: And how we deal with death is  in my dreams. I hope.  
Indiana Jones: Fly, yes. Land, no.  at least as important as how we  
deal with life, wouldn't you say?  
———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  ———————————————  

Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Monday, February 1, 2010 
page 15 

NCAA Division I Men’s Basketball Coaches Poll 
team previous 
1  Kentucky  2  
2  Kansas  3  
3  Villanova  4  
4  Syracuse  5  
5  Michigan State  7  
6  Texas  1  
7  Duke  6  
8  Gonzaga  10  
9  West Virginia  12  
10  BYU  13  
11  Georgetown  14  
12  Purdue  9  
13  Kansas State  8  
14  Tennessee  17  
15  Temple  19  
16  Wisconsin  11  
17  Pittsburgh  20  
18  Butler  21  
19  Connecticut  24  
20  Mississippi  16  
21  Clemson  18  
22  Georgia Tech  NR  
23  Vanderbilt  25  
24  Ohio State  22  
25  UNI  

NCAA Division I Women’s Basketball Coaches Poll 
team previous 
1 Connecticut 1 2 Stanford 2 3 NOTRE DAME 5 4 Nebraska 6 5 Tennessee 3 6 Ohio State 4 7 Duke 7 8 Texas A&M 9 9 Georgia 8 10 Xavier 10 11 West Virginia 11 12 Oklahoma 13 13 North Carolina 15 14 Florida State 16 15 Georgetown 18 16 Baylor 12 17 Oklahoma State 17 18 Iowa State 21 19 LSU 19 20 Virginia 22 21 TCU 24 22 Green Bay 14 23 Kentucky 25 24 Vanderbilt 20 25 Texas 23 


around the dial 
NHL 
Sabres at Penguins 7 p.m., Versus 

Men’s NCAA Basketball 
Texas at Oklahoma State 9 p.m., ESPN 
PGA 


Mickelson not taking ‘cheating’ accusation lightly 
put it in play.” McCarron was upset with during the third round 
Associated Press 
The USGA has a new the new rule on grooves. explaining why the Ping-

SAN DIEGO — Phil rule this year that irons But after a 70 in the Eye 2 wedges with square Mickelson hinted at legal have V-shaped grooves. third round put Mickelson grooves were approved action Saturday for being However, the Ping-Eye 2 within four shots of the for play. accused of “cheating,” wedges that were made lead, he made it clear he “Public comments or saying that if the PGA before April 1, 1990, would not go quietly. criticisms characterizing Tour did not do something remain approved for play “We all have our opin-their use as a violation ... about him being “publicly through a Ping lawsuit ions on the matter, but a are inappropriate at slandered,” then he that was settled 20 years line was crossed and I best,” the statement said. would let others handle it. ago and takes precedence just was publicly slan-Told about the tour’s 
Mickelson didn’t men-over new regulations. dered,” Mickelson said. statement, Mickelson tion Scott McCarron by Mickelson is using one “And because of that, I’ll paused before saying it name in a series of inter-of those wedges this week have to let other people was “cool if they put that views after his third after reading about John handle that.” out there.” round at Torrey Pines. Daly and Dean Wilson Asked he was contem-“Again, everybody has 
McCarron was quoted in using them in Hawaii. plating a lawsuit, their opinions and so The San Francisco When asked Friday Mickelson said, “I’m not forth, and it’s healthy to Chronicle on Friday as about McCarron’s quote going into specifics what talk about it,” he said. saying about Mickelson about him cheating, that meant.” “But when you cross that using the Ping -Eye 2 Mickelson declined to get Still, it was clear that line and slander someone wedges with square into what he referred to his message reached PGA publicly, that’s when the grooves, “It’s cheating, as “name -calling.” Tour headquarters. The tour needs to step in — or and I’m appalled Phil has Instead, he suggested that tour released a statement someone else.” 
IN BRIEF 

Bomb attempts prompt 
Super Bowl security change 
WASHINGTON — The massive, multi­million-dollar security operations for the Super Bowl and Winter Olympics are being adjusted in light of recent breaches such as the attempted Christmas Day bombing of an airliner and the White House gatecrashers. 
Sports and government officials say such lapses — where individuals got past guards on the ground — are leading to increased screening efforts at major upcoming events, including the NFL championship game between the Indianapolis Colts and New Orleans Saints in Miami next Sunday, and the Vancouver Games starting Feb. 12. 
Extensive ticket-checking procedures also are being implemented for soccer's World Cup, which begins June 11 in South Africa. Even entertainment awards shows are taking extra steps, like stricter monitoring of cars arriving at the Golden Globes Awards ceremony two weeks ago 
Referee dies after 
being hit by puck 
STOCKHOLM — A Swedish ice hockey referee has died after being hit in the back of the head by a puck during a junior game. 
A police spokesman said the 62­year-old man was refereeing an under-18 game in northern Sweden on Saturday and was struck by the puck when a player tried to lob it into the offensive zone. 
It was not immediately clear whether he died from being hit by the puck or from hitting his head on the ice when he fell. 
Police did not name the man, but local media identified him as Roland Hedberg. 
Police say the man received CPR by an off-duty ambulance driver within 10 seconds of the accident, but that he was pronounced dead upon arrival at a hospital. 
Kobe -Lebron print ad 
features gun language 
NEW YORK — An advertisement fea­turing the NBA's two biggest superstars includes a gun reference, the same week two players were suspended for carrying firearms to the locker room. 
The Nike ad, which appears in several publications including Sports Illustrated and ESPN The Magazine, has LeBron James on one page and Kobe Bryant on the other. Along with the slogan, “Prepare For Combat,” is a quote from each player showing how tough he is. 
Bryant's blurb says: “I'll do whatever it takes to win games. I don't leave anything in the chamber. 
The chamber in a gun is the compart­ment that holds the bullet before it is fired. 
“The Nike print ad featuring Kobe Bryant was intended to illustrate his all out play and commitment on the basket­ball court,” Nike said in a statement. “It is a commonly used reference for shoot 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, February 1, 2010 
MLB 

Pirates owner rejects offer from Lemieux 
Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — Pirates owner Bob Nutting declined to listen to separate proposals to buy the team last year, including a surprise bid from Pittsburgh Penguins co-owner Mario Lemieux, officials with knowledge of the talks told The Associated Press. 
The officials spoke Saturday 
on condition of anonymity because the talks were pri­vate. The Pirates confirmed discussions with Lemieux and Penguins co -owner Ron Burkle took place, but said there was no talk about sell­ing. 
The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette first reported Saturday that Lemieux and Burkle made an unsolicited proposal for the Pirates four months ago — one that was substantial and serious, a person with knowl­edge of the offer told The Associated Press. 
Previously, Nutting turned aside several sale overtures made by Pittsburgh lawyer Chuck Greenberg, who subse­quently teamed with Nolan Ryan to purchase the Texas Rangers in a deal completed last week. 
Several years ago, Dallas Mavericks owner Mark Cuban also was rebuffed in efforts to buy the team. 
Nutting gave all the inter­ested parties the same answer: The Pirates aren’t for sale, and the discussions apparently went no further. 
“No formal, substantive 
offer had been made at a meeting four months ago with Bob and Mario and Ron Burkle,” Pirates president Frank Coonelly said Saturday at the team’s fan festival. “But what I can confirm for you is, at that time, today, tomorrow, next week, the Pirates are not for sale. Bob Nutting is com­mitted to making this organi­zation a winner again.” 
While the Pirates acknowl­edge they are profitable, they aren’t successful. They lost 99 games last year during a major league-record 17th consecutive losing season, then raised fans’ ire by trim­ming their payroll below that of the 1992 Pirates, the fran­chise’s last team to make the playoffs. 
The Pirates’ projected $35 million payroll is only about half of the totals for NL Central rivals Cincinnati and Milwaukee, despite being in a similar-sized market, and is expected to be the lowest in the majors by at least $5 mil­lion. 
That Nutting wouldn’t con­sider a proposal from the popular Lemieux, a Pittsburgh sports icon who has revived the Penguins twice — once as a player and again as an owner — is likely to generate further fan unhappiness. 
The fan unrest was evident Saturday when Coonelly, gen­eral manager Neal Huntington and manager John Russell heard boos at times during a fan festival question-and-answer session, especially when queried about the payroll. Most answers were met with only tepid applause, according to bystanders. 
The Pirates have said the payroll won’t increase sub­stantially until top prospects reach the majors and adding higher-salaried players might make the difference in win­ning a championship. 
All of those interested in the Pirates have lengthy back­grounds in pro sports. 
Greenberg has been a suc­cessful minor league owner, and his teams included the Pirates’ Double-A affiliate in Altoona, Pa., that was partial­ly owned by Lemieux until being sold two years ago. Greenberg also was a finalist for the Pirates’ presidency before Coonelly was hired in 2007. 
Lemieux, the Hall of Fame player, bought the Penguins in federal bankruptcy court in 1999 — a year later, he came out of retirement became pro sports’ first owner-player — and has since seen them become one of the NHL’s most successful franchises. 
Burkle, a California billion­aire investor and supermar­ket operator who joined Lemieux’s group in 1999 by making a $20 million invest­ment, was interested previ­
ously in buying the Washington Nationals and Chicago Cubs. 
“Mario and Ron are very smart business people. They’ve been very successful with the Penguins and have done a great job with them,” Coonelly said. “What they see in the Pirates, I would think, is that they’re interested in purchasing a team much like the Penguins earlier this decade: A team on the rise. A team that has a plan. A team that has financial stability.” 
Owning two of the Pittsburgh’s three major pro sports teams might have allowed Lemieux and Burkle to launch their own TV sports channel. Because they would own the teams, Lemieux and Burkle could have kept all advertising revenues without paying expensive rights fees, once the teams’ current rights deals with FSN Pittsburgh expired. 
Lemieux and Burkle, according to people with knowledge of their interest, believe the Pirates could sub­stantially hike attendance — recently among the lowest in the majors — with a more aggressive approach to player acquisition. 
Nutting’s family owns a Wheeling, W.Va.-based news­paper chain and first became involved in the Pirates’ own­ership group when California newspaper heir Kevin McClatchy bought the team in 1996. The Nuttings subse­quently began to increase their shares by buying out partners of the once-large 
ownership group and now own a substantial portion of the shares. 
Last season, Forbes estimat­ed the Pirates’ worth at $288 million, less than that of any team except the Florida Marlins, who currently play in an NFL stadium. 
Penguins vice president Tom McMillan declined Saturday to confirm Lemieux’s interest in the Pirates, saying, “The Penguins don’t discuss private business matters.” 
NHL 
Phaneuf, Giguere to Toronto 
Associated Press 
TORONTO — The Toronto Maple Leafs shook up their struggling club, acquiring defenseman Dion Phaneuf from the Calgary Flames in a seven-player deal Sunday and swapping goalies with Anaheim to get J.S. Giguere. 
Along with Phaneuf, Toronto received Keith Aulie and Fredrik Sjostrom from Calgary in exchange for Ian White, Matt Stajan, Nick Hagman and Jamal Mayers. 
The Maple Leafs also traded goalie Vesa Toskala and Jason Blake to Anaheim for Giguere, who became an expensive backup after the Ducks signed No. 1 goalie Jonas Hiller to a four-year extension Saturday. 
The shakeup comes after Toronto’s 5-3 loss to the Vancouver Canucks on Saturday night to extend its winless streak to six games. The Leafs (17-28-11, 45 points) are tied with Carolina for last in the Eastern Conference. 
“We’ve got to create tension where there’s enough talent on the roster and a high enough battle level that the coach has decisions to make,” Maple Leafs general manager Brian Burke said. “Right now he doesn’t have decisions to make. It’s these guys who got to go on the ice. We’re trying to change that. Today is an important part of changing that. 
“We’re still open for busi­ness, we’re not done,” he added. 
The 6-foot-3, 214-pound Phaneuf has appeared in 55 games this season with Calgary, with 10 goals and 12 assists with 49 penalty min­utes. The Edmonton native is in his fifth NHL season — all with Calgary — after being selected ninth overall in 2003. 
Burke called Phaneuf an elite player whom he tried to acquire earlier in the season. 
“This guy’s a warrior. He’s got a cannon for a shot. He plays the game hard ... I want players who play the game hard because they’re hard to play against,” he said. 
The 24-year-old made the all-rookie team in 2005-’06 and has twice played in the All-Star Game. 
“It was definitely a shock, but I’m very excited about going to Toronto and being a Maple Leaf,” Phaneuf said. 
“It’s part of the business.” he added. “It’s a cliche. If Wayne Gretzky can get traded anyone can get traded. I was very sur­prised, but on the other hand I’m very excited to be going to the biggest hockey market in the world.” 
The trades remove a fair chunk of Toronto’s offense, with the departing players accounting for 57 of the Leafs’ 149 goals. 
“We’re just going to have to find other ways to manufacture offense,” Toronto coach Ron Wilson said. 
“In one fell swoop, we’ve made ourself the youngest team in the league,” he added. “Instead of looking back, we’re looking forward.” 
The acquisition of Giguere will allow the Leafs to give Swedish rookie Jonas Gustavsson more time to learn. 
Toskala has a 3.66 goals-against average over 26 games while Gustavsson — who twice has been treated for a heart problem this year — has a 3.03 GAA in his 31 appearances. 
Sjostrom, taken 11th overall in the 2001 draft by Phoenix, has one goal and five assists in 56 games this season. 
Stajan had 16 goals and 25 assists in 55 games while Hagman had 20 goals and 13 assists in 55 games. White had nine goals and 17 assists in 56 games and Mayers two goals and six assists in 48 games. 
Blake had 10 goals and 16 assists in 56 games. 
Giguere has a 4-8-5 record with a 3.14 GAA and a .900 save percentage this season. Hiller is 21-15-2 with a 2.75 GAA and a .920 save percent­age. 



Monday, February 1, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
NBA 

Kobe, Lakers win in Boston 
Cavaliers score 46 points in first quarter, defeat Clippers 114-89 
Associated Press 
BOSTON — The Los Angeles Lakers are doing their best to forget all those awful memo­ries of playing in the Boston Garden. 
Kobe Bryant sank the go-ahead basket with 7.3 sec­onds left, and the Lakers won 90 -89 on Sunday for their third consecutive victory over the struggling Celtics. Boston has not been able to make good on the traditional “Beat L.A.!” chant since winning 131 -92 to clinch the 2008 NBA championship here in Game 6 of the finals. 
“They smacked us two years ago,” Lakers forward Lamar Odom said. “It was a big game for us. This is a team that’s going to be battling to be coming out of the East. 
Winners of 32 NBA titles between them—including the last two —the Lakers and Celtics have met in the finals 11 times, from Bill Russell against Elgin Baylor and Wilt Chamberlain, to Magic Johnson vs. Larry Bird and on to the current matchup of Bryant facing the New Big Three of Kevin Garnett, Paul Pierce and Ray Allen. 
But while the Lakers’ super­star came through in the stretch for them, Boston’s couldn’t. 
The Celtics led by as many as 11 points in the fourth quarter and nursed a one-point lead until Pierce was called for an offensive foul for pushing off as he jumped to shoot with 28 seconds left. 
“At that point, I think it’s got to be unbelievable, but I didn’t see it so I really can’t give an opinion on it,” Boston coach Doc Rivers said. “You know, I do know Kobe pushes off a lot.” 
Bryant complained of a stiff ankle after Friday night’s win in Philadelphia, and it seemed to bother him during the game. He shot just 8 for 20 but made the big one: making a move toward the basket before stepping back from Allen’s defense and swishing the ball through the net to give Los Angeles its only lead of the second half. 
“He had a couple of looks before that that were good looks, and he didn’t put them in. We were mystified by that,” said Lakers coach Phil Jackson, who tied Pat Riley atop the franchise coaching list with his 533rd win in Los Angeles. “He told me the next one was going to go in, so we went with him.” 
Bryant finished with 19, Andrew Bynum had 19 points and 11 rebounds, and Pau Gasol had 11 points and 11 boards for the Lakers, who won their fourth consecutive game. 
“I didn’t say give me one more chance. I said give me the damn ball,” Bryant said. “I never really give him much of a choice.” 
Rajon Rondo had 21 points and 12 assists for the Celtics, who have lost six of their last eight games. 
Pierce scored 15, Garnett had 10 with nine rebounds and Kendrick Perkins finished with eight points and 10 boards for the Celtics, who were coming off losses to Orlando and Atlanta—two of the top four teams in the Eastern Conference—that left them at 6-10 since beating the Magic on Christmas Day. 
“It’s nothing to be happy about, I’ll tell you that,” Garnett said. “We haven’t been producing wins, but we’re a hardworking group.” 
Garnett missed 10 of those games with a hyperextended right knee, and Boston was 4­6 without him. But Garnett’s return hasn’t solved all the Celtics’ problems. 
Cavaliers 114, Clippers 89 
When LeBron James hit his fourth 3-pointer of the first quarter — from 30 feet away 
— Los Angeles Clippers coach Mike Dunleavy sat silent in his chair while the sold-out crowd roared around him. 


There was little Dunleavy or his team could do to stop the Cleveland Cavaliers during their win Sunday night. 
James scored half of Cleveland’s 46 points in the first quarter and the streak­ing Cavaliers tied an NBA record with 11 3-pointers in the opening period of their season-best eighth straight victory. 
The whole spectacle left Dunleavy stunned. 
“I’ve got money that I’ll put them in the gym naked, nobody else on them, and they probably can’t make 11 out of 13 again from the same spots,” Dunleavy said. “They hit some shots in that first quarter that I know in 30 years of being in the NBA that I’ve (never) seen a team make.” 
The 46 points tied a fran­chise mark for most in a quarter, and Cleveland’s 16 3­pointers fell one shy of the team record for a game. 
The leader, as usual, was James. He made his first seven shots and finished with 32 points and 11 assists. His five 3-pointers in the first equaled the team’s mark for most by a player in a quarter. 
The hotter James got, the deeper he started firing — shots he playfully refers to as “heat checks.” By the end of the first quarter, the Q was sizzling with a 46 -20 Cleveland lead. 
James heaved baskets from 30 and 28 feet as the Cavaliers made 3-pointers on seven consecutive possessions in the period. 
“There’s no description of a player getting into the zone like that. It just happens,” James said. “And when it happens, everything you put up, you feel like it’s going in.” 
Early on, that was true. Anderson Varejao appeared to toss an alley -oop to Jamario Moon in the second quarter, but ended up making the basket when his lob sailed high. Varejao had 11 points and seven rebounds off the bench. 
All of Cleveland’s first-quar­ter 3-pointers came within the flow of the offense — either Shaquille O’Neal pass­ing out of the post or James passing out of double teams. 
James had four 3s during the streak, Daniel Gibson added two and Anthony Parker started it with one four minutes into the game. 
The long -range shooting extended a 9-7 lead to 30-11 in a little more than three minutes. The Cavaliers shot 16 of 21 in the quarter, including 11 of 13 on 3-point­ers. 
Baron Davis had 30 points for the Clippers, who have dropped four straight and are 1-5 on this eight-game road trip. Los Angeles was again without center Chris Kaman, who has missed consecutive games with a sprained left ankle. Eric Gordon had 12 points and DeAndre Jordan added 11 for Los Angeles. 
O’Neal had 16 points and 12 rebounds for Cleveland, which kicked off a seven ­game homestand with an easy win. Gibson had 14 points and Jawad Williams added 12 off the bench. 
PGA 
Crane wins at Torrey Pines with late par 
prise when it ran over the 
Associated Press 
right side of the cup. Crane 
SAN DIEGO — Ben Crane then missed a par putt put his name back in the inside 3 feet to lose another news for the best reason of shot off his lead. all. He won another golf Both laid up on the par-5 tournament. 18th, and both put too much 
Crane made two birdie spin on their wedges that putts longer than 45 feet to the shots rolled off the build a big enough cushion green — Crane’s against the 
t h a t  mi s s - collar, Sim’s  a  
in g  a  f e w  y a r d  o f f  t h e  
short putts  f r o n t  of  t h e  
d o w n  t h e  green, forcing  
stretch did-n’t cost him S u n d a y i n t h e F a r m e r s  “It’s really cool to know I’m going in the right direction.”  h i m t o c h i p . T h ey s e t t l e d for pars. Sim had just u n d e r 2 5 0  
I n s u r a n c e  Ben Crane  y a r d s  t o  t he  

Open at 
golfer
Torrey Pines. 
Crane knocked in a 30 -inch par putt on the final hole for a 2-under 70 and a one-shot victory over Michael Sim, Brandt Snedeker and Marc Leishman. It was Crane’s third career victory, and first in nearly five years, and this one earned him a trip back to the Masters. 
With a reputation for slow play, perhaps it was only fit­ting that Crane was the last one to know he had won. 
He made it a point not to look at a leaderboard throughout the final round, and didn’t know the result until Ryuji Imada congratu­lated him on the 18th green. Even in post-round therapy for his back, Crane said he doesn’t talk about results, only the process. 
But for his first victory sine Milwaukee in 2005? 
“I think it’s OK to get out of the moment for tonight,” he said, smiling. 
The last time Crane made news, he was inadvertently swept up in the Tiger Woods scandal when a gossip mag­azine attributed quotes to him that he never made. Life & Style said it spoke to Crane at Q-school, even though Crane was never there. 
Crane handled that situa­tion with the same even hand he displayed on a cool, breezy afternoon along the Pacific bluffs. 
Starting the final round two shots behind, he opened with three birdies in five holes, including one from just over 45 feet on No. 3. He expanded his lead to three shots with another 45­foot birdie putt on the 11th. 
Then, it was a matter of hanging on. 
He had plenty of chal ­lengers, although Phil Mickelson wasn’t one of them. Making his season debut, and only four shots behind, Mickelson bogeyed his first three holes and was never a factor. 
Robert Allenby made a charge only to fall back by losing five shots in four holes, including a tee shot that vanished into the canyon. Sim, the 25-year-old Australian, kept with Crane the entire round and had his chances to the very end. 
Trailing by two, Sim was certain he had made a 15­foot birdie on the 17th hole and stopped in utter sur­hole, right on 
the edge of 
reaching the 
green with his 
3-wood. Rather 
than cost him­self the tournament with a shot he had to hit perfect, he did everything right except plan for the amount of spin. 
“It was a perfect number (for the wedge), a perfect shot,” he said. “It would have been nice to have a putt at it.” 
Crane finished at 13 ­under 275, a victory that changes the outlook on his season. He is going back to Augusta National for the first time in three years, and his victory should put him inside the top 60 and give him a good chance to quali­fy for the Match Play Championship. 
“It’s really cool to know I’m going in the right direc­tion,” Crane said. 
Snedeker closed with a 69 after narrowly missing a 12­foot birdie on the last hole. Leishman had a 68, hitting into the bunker and the rough to take away chances of a good look for birdie on the 18th. 
Michael Allen celebrated his 51st birthday with five straight birdies for a Sunday-best 65, moving him into a tie for fifth with Ernie Els (69), Rickie Fowler (70) and Alex Prugh (66), who earned a trip to Riviera next week for the Northern Trust Open. 
Allenby was the first to make a move at Crane, pulling within two shots after his two-putt birdie at the 13th. But for the second straight tournament, he was a victim of the new V-groove regulation. His ball jumped out of the rough on the 14th with a 7-iron, well over the green and into the hazard. In Honolulu, another flier went through the back of the green on the last hole and he made par to lose by one. 
Mickelson was four shots behind when he teed off to a hometown cheer. Within an hour, he was out of the tour­nament. 
He pulled his bunker shot down a slope to the right of the first green, blocked by branches of a torrey pine from playing a flop shot. Using his Ping-Eye 2 wedge that has caused so much consternation this week, he flew it onto the green and it raced some 30 feet by the cup, leading to bogey. 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, February 1, 2010 
NFL 

Free agent DE Peppers likely to leave Panthers 
Associated Press 
CHARLOTTE, N.C. — Snubbed by the Carolina Panthers since the end of the season, the agent for five-time Pro Bowl defensive end Julius Peppers is convinced his client will play elsewhere in 2010. 
Carl Carey said Sunday night the Panthers have “not made a single inquiry this off­season” regarding the impending unrestricted free agent. 
“And we don’t expect to hear from them,” Carey told The Associated Press in a phone interview, setting the stage for Peppers to become one of the top defensive play­ers to hit the market in years ahead of a potential season without a salary cap. 
Panthers general manager Marty Hurney didn’t immedi­ately return a phone message seeking comment. 
“Julius wants to thank the Carolina fans and know their support has meant a lot to him over the years,” Carey said. 
Hurney and coach John Fox went to great lengths to keep Peppers in 2009, going against his public wishes to be allowed to leave as a free agent. The Panthers used the restrictive franchise tag and paid him an NFL-high $18.2 million. That counts a $1.5 million bonus for making the Pro Bowl after he recorded 
10.5 sacks. 
Using the tag again next season would cost about $20.1 million, plus another $1.5 mil­lion for the Pro Bowl and $250,000 for each playoff win. Signing the 30-year-old to a long-term contract could like­ly cost in upward of $15 mil­lion a year. 
“I think most people who have looked at the situation have understood the complex­ity of it for the Panthers,” Carey said. “What I’m more surprised by is the silent treatment that they’re giving Julius at this time. We have had a very respectful relation­ship with the organization and this is very much unlike what I’m used to seeing from them.” 
Carey said he talked with team officials on the day of the regular-season finale against New Orleans on Jan. 3, then initiated contact with the team shortly thereafter. 
“They informed me they would make contact the fol­lowing week,” Carey said. “They never did. To date, we have still not heard from them.” 
The 6-foot-7, 283 -pound Peppers, the No. 2 overall pick in the 2002 draft, has spent his entire eight-year career with Carolina. His 81 sacks are the third-most in the NFL during that span behind 
Mi a mi’s  J as o n  Ta ylor  a n d  
D wig h t  Fr e en e y  o f  
Indianapolis.  

A freakish athlete with tremendous speed and agility for his size, Peppers can dom­inate games — and disappear at times. 
He was so disruptive in a December game against Minnesota that left tackle Bryant McKinnie was benched and Vikings coach Brad Childress wanted to take out Brett Favre to avoid injury, leading to their on-field argu­ment. 
But Peppers seemed to lack energy in the 2007 season, when he had just 2 1/2 sacks in 14 games. He returned a year later to post a career-high 14 1/2 sacks. He had five forced fumbles and two inter­ceptions in 2009 despite being limited in the middle of the season with a broken hand. 
Peppers, who grew up in Bailey, N.C., and played in col­lege at North Carolina, said last offseason that he wanted to leave his home state and play as an outside linebacker in a 3-4 defense. Peppers skipped all offseason work­outs, but had little leverage with the franchise tag and signed the one-year tender before training camp. 
He didn’t miss a game or practice and seemed to warm to new defensive coordinator Ron Meeks’ 4-3 system, lining up at different spots on the line. But in a brief interview after a Pro Bowl practice Saturday, Peppers acknowl-edged that, “I’m just trying to get on a team right now. I just want to get a contract.” 

Carey said Peppers is willing to play in any type of defense next season. 
“He has indicated to me that he is open to hearing from the remaining 31 teams in the league,” Carey said. “He is open to any defensive scheme at this point.” 
Peppers took up 14 percent of Carolina’s salary cap this season. That meant the Panthers had to find cheap labor in other areas and the special teams units suffered as Carolina finished 8-8. 
The Panthers may not have to worry about a salary cap in 2010 if a new collective bar­gaining agreement is not reached. But Carey believes the Panthers “have moved on.” 
“He feels like he is just now entering his prime,” Carey said. “He has an incredibly bright future ahead of him as he opens the next chapter of his life and his career.” 
NHL 

Capitals roll, win 10th straight 
Associated Press 
WASHINGTON — It’s a perfect 10 for the Washington Capitals, whose superstar woke up in a sleepy game to score the goal that kept the winning streak alive Sunday. 
Fittingly, it was Alex Ovechkin who found the net with 6:26 remaining in the Capitals’ 3-2 win over the Tampa Bay Lightning, giving Washington a franchise record-tying 10th con­secutive victory. 
“It’s kind of fun and it’s kind of good,” Ovechkin said. “But we don’t want to stop.” 
The reigning two-time league MVP slid on one knee and into the boards to celebrate his 35th goal of the season, a shot from the slot that beat Mike Smith to the stick side. The score rescued the Capitals after Washington blew a two-goal lead with a rare third-period meltdown. 
“It was a quiet game,” Washington coach Bruce Boudreau said. “Once they got the two goals, it got everybody’s blood going again. ... Ovie, you could feel on that shift that he sort of just said ‘OK, it’s time I did something.’“ 
Nicklas Backstrom and Brooks Laich also scored for the Capitals, whose double-digit run matches the team mark set Jan. 27-Feb. 18, 1984. Washington, which has outscored opponents 47-21 over the 10 games, can break the record Tuesday at Boston. 
“The number 10 is pretty tough to get to,” Boudreau said. “I told the guys it’s something that you might go your whole career again without getting again, and so enjoy it.” 
The league’s top-scoring team has turned the Southeast Division race into a laugher and is within one point of San Jose for best record in the NHL. Seven of the 10 wins have been by two goals or more, but Sunday’s victory showed the Capitals also can win when they’re far from their best. 
“Every team wants to come in a make a statement and say ‘We’re the team that knocked these guys off,’“ Laich said, “so we’re getting teams’ best efforts every single night. We’re in spe­cial territory right now, and a chance to make history in our next game, so we’ve got to be prepared.” 
Jose Theodore, returning after missing two games with a lower body injury, made 25 saves for Washington. 
The Capitals were leading 2-0 when Martin St. Louis made a nice deflection to pull the Lightning within a goal with 15 minutes to play. Just 7 seconds later, Backstrom was whistled for tripping, Washington’s first penalty of the game. 
Tomas Fleischmann com­pounded matters during the penalty kill committing a hook­ing penalty out of frustration seconds after losing the puck. The Capitals killed off 23 sec­onds of 5-on-3, but Steven Stamkos’ one-timer with Fleischmann in the box tied it with 12:18 remaining. 
Tampa Bay’s rally proved fruitless when Ovechkin scored, an overdue breakthrough in a game in which the Russian for­ward had 11 shots blocked before they reached the net. 
“It’s devastating, but we’ve got to grab some positive out of this third period, some momentum going into the next game,” St. Louis said. “I thought we showed a lot of character com­ing back like that.” 
The Lightning’s final scoring opportunity was rebuffed when Vincent Lecavalier was kicked out of the faceoff circle in Washington’s zone with 2.4 sec­onds to play. Lecavalier argued the call and was sent to the penalty box for unsportmanlike conduct, moving the faceoff to Tampa Bay’s end. 
Lecavalier blamed the Capitals for influencing the linesman. 
“Their guys basically intimi­dated him to kick me out,” Lecavalier said. “That’s what got me upset.” 
The Lightning were the last team to beat the Capitals, a 7-4 victory on Jan. 12 during which Ovechkin challenged Lightning forward Steve Downie to a fight before Washington’s Matt Bradley intervened on behalf of his teammate. 
For all the anticipation, Sunday’s rematch was on the dull side for two periods. The only early highlight was Ovechkin’s amusing pratfall behind the Tampa Bay net, the result of a problem with his left skate. 
Backstrom got the game’s first goal in the second period by stuffing a rebound between Smith’s legs during a power play. It was Backstrom’s 23rd of the season — a career high — and gave the Capitals nine straight games with a power-play goal. 


Monday, February 1, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
NCAA MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Hopson leads No. 14 Vols 
Associated Press 
KNOXVILLE, Tenn. — Tennessee was down by a point with 25 seconds left when coach Bruce Pearl called a timeout to set up the Volunteers’ final play. 
Scotty Hopson figured the ball would be in the hands of go-to post player Wayne Chism. Instead, Pearl made Chism the decoy this time and told Hopson to take the shot. 
“I’ll get it if we’re maybe down two and need a 3,” Hopson said. “We obviously needed a big shot, and coach had the confidence to put it in my hands so I stepped up and knocked it down. 
Well, first he had to shake Chandler Parsons, who didn’t fall for Chism’s decoy, and adjust the designed shot. He hit a fading jumper over Parsons’ head just in front of the 3-point line with 21 sec­
onds left to give No. 14 Tennessee a 61-60 win over Florida on Sunday. 
“I thought he would be more open. He did not get much of a look, but he made a play himself,” Pearl said. “It is a big shot.” 
Perhaps the biggest of his short career. 
The basket gave the Volunteers (16 -4, 4-2 Southeastern Conference) their sixth straight win over their East Division rival and fifth straight victory in Knoxville. It also kept Tennessee from dropping a third game in the row, which the Vols have only done once under Pearl. 
It also ended Florida’s four-game winning streak, the Gators’ longest in league play since opening the 2007 season 11-0. 
“I have been on the (win­ning) end of two of those shots (this season) … and Hopson really knocked down a big -time shot,” Florida coach Billy Donovan said. 
Alex Tyus, who led the Gators with 18 points, had a chance to grab the lead back for Florida (15-6, 4-3) but missed a jumper in the middle of a crowd under the basket with 5 seconds left, and Hopson came away with the defensive rebound. 
“It felt good. Just kind of trickled out,” Tyus said of his shot. “You just got to realize that wasn’t the reason why we lost the game. We just need to learn how to play a full game.” 
After playing poorly in the first half, Chism led the Vols with 16 points and 11 rebounds and hit two key free throws with 42 seconds left. 
J.P. Prince scored 12, and Hopson finished with 10. 
Hopson has been at his best against the Gators. He logged 20 points as a freshman last season against them in Knoxville and came up with a big block on a potential game-tying 3 by Erving Walker with 37 seconds left in Tennessee’s win in Gainesville. 
“He is going to have a lot more big shots,” Pearl said of Hopson. 
Tennessee overcame a slow, sloppy first half to dominate Florida in the second half. The Vols were scrappier on defense and put a strong effort on the boards, outre­bounding the Gators 27 to 12 after halftime. 
Florida’s backcourt duo of Erving Walker and Kenny Boynton, who entered the game having combined for 
37.2 of Florida’s 75.3 average points in SEC play, finished with a total 13 points. 
“I thought they had some pretty decent looks. They just did not shoot the ball particu­larly well,” Donovan said. 
Before the break, it was all Florida. 
The Gators used a pressing defense reminiscent of one Tennessee has used against them in the past. They limited the Vols to 36.4 shooting and 
outrebounded them 20 -14 before halftime while taking control of the paint on both ends. 
Dan Werner hit a 3-point shot from the corner of the floor and the Gators hit two more in the paint to grab a 15-7 lead with 12:55 to go. 
Florida led by 10 points in the first half thanks to 57.7 percent shooting, but the Gators cooled off considerably in the second half, hitting just 
36.4 percent from the field. 
Bruce Pearl is now 8-1 against Florida and Billy Donovan, who joined the Tennessee coach for a $1,000­per-couple social on Saturday night to raise money for can­cer screening as part of Tennessee’s Outlive initiative. 
“There aren’t many coaches in the country the night before the game that would spend an hour and half away from their team helping the community raise money,” Pearl said of Donovan. “There aren’t many guys in the busi­ness like him.” 


NCAA FOOTBALL 
WR Gilyard leads talented draft class 
Associated Press 
MOBILE, Ala. — Mardy Gilyard once worked four jobs to stay in school after losing his scholarship. 
The former Cincinnati star turned in an awfully strong audition for a much more lucrative career in Saturday’s Senior Bowl, racking up 103 yards receiving and catching a 32-yard touchdown pass in the fourth quarter to help the North race to a 31-13 victory over the South. 
“All my hard work just kind of came into one game,” an exuberant Gilyard said. “I’m truly blessed. I worked my butt off and I played my butt off. I’ve been through so much in my career. 
“This game sums up every­thing, because I’ve been through all the hard work, all the ups and all the downs, the peaks and the valleys. I’ve South committed six turnovers. 
“It shows that I’m going to go hard 100 percent of the time all day and whoever gets me is going to love me,” Graham said. 
Gilyard returned two kicks for 52 yards and gained 24 on two punt returns. He was chosen offensive player of the game while Mississippi State’s Jamar Chaney earned defen­sive honors. 
Tulane receiver Jeremy Williams had six catches for 82 yards, added a 27-yard run on an end around and was named the South’s most outstanding player. That honor went to Central Michigan’s LeFevour for the North. He completed half of his 10 passes for 97 yards and added a 1-yard touch­down run on a sneak, once again outdistancing the much 
more heralded 
Tebow. 
been through LeFevour fin­
“All my hard work 
everything . ished with 
just kind of came into
I’ve been from more total the brown one game. I’m truly touchdowns sticky stuff at (150) than any 
blessed.” 
the bottom of other player in the barrel to Football Bowl the cream at Mardy Gilyard Subdivision, the top of the Former Cincinnati WR including 
coffee.” 
In 2006, an academically ineligible Gilyard lost his scholarship and had to take jobs ranging from cutlery salesman to con­struction worker to pay his steep out-of-state tuition bills. He eventually won back his scholarship. 
Florida quarterback Tim Tebow, meanwhile, had a shaky outing running a pro-style offense against a sturdy defense. 
He fumbled twice and fin­ished 8 of 12 passing for 50 yards in the showcase for senior NFL prospects. Tebow’s longest completion was 11 yards and he netted 4 yards on four rushes, but was never turned loose as a power runner as he often was with the Gators. He battled strep throat early but didn’t miss any practice time during a week when he was trying to prove to skeptical NFL teams and draft analysts that he could be a starting pro quar­terback. 
“I think I’m definitely open to improving my fundamen­tals,” Tebow said. “I think I definitely showed that by being here. If you just watched the way I played, you could see there is room for improve­ment and what I need to Tebow (145). 
Zac Robinson had the game’s best passing numbers, throwing for 176 yards and a touchdown before getting intercepted late in the game. 
Tebow played 11 snaps in the first half, and the South was down two scores by the time he re-entered the game to loud applause late in the third. 
Dexter McCluster fumbled two plays into his first drive of the half, and his second began at the South’s 1-yard line. 
Tebow led the South to a couple of first downs before Koa Misi stripped the ball from him. He had another fumble on the next drive but lineman Jeff Byers fell on the ball. 
The miscues didn’t dampen his enthusiasm for the sport that has made him one of col­lege sports’ biggest stars. 
“It’s a game of football,” Tebow said. “You’re playing with a bunch of great players, a bunch of great coaches. I’m out here playing football. I love it.” 
Gilyard’s teammate, Tony Pike, is considered the top-rated NFL prospect among the participating quarter­backs and he looked solid in a brief outing. 
work on.” One of the nation’s top a l l -p u r p o s e  “I think I’m defnitely open to improving my fundamentals.”  He was 5 of 12 for 45 yards all in the first half. Gilyard caught  
t h r e a t s ,  two  of  those  
Gilyard  also  Tim Tebow  passes for 21  
set up a third-quarter touch- Former Florida QB  yards. L e G a r r e t t e  
down  with  a  Blount  had  a  
43-yard catch  14-yard touch­ 

down the right sideline and down run for the North, while had five receptions. Both that Lonyae Miller gained a game-pass and the TD came from high 44 yards on nine carries. Central Michigan’s Dan Alabama players accounted LeFevour. for all of the South’s points. 
Michigan defensive lineman Robinson hit tight end Colin Brandon Graham had two Peek for a 19-yard touch-sacks and a forced fumble down and Leigh Tiffin booted and was chosen the game’s field goals of 43 and 33 Most Valuable Player. The yards. 

page 20 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, February 1, 2010 
Saturday 
continued from page 24 
off to an early 3-1 lead with strong doubles play and wins at No. 1 and No. 5 singles. 
“We could have competed better on Saturday against Tulsa,” Bayliss said. “After win­ning the doubles point I felt that we were in great shape, but they quickly turned into a war and four-hour match. I give some of Tulsa’s guys a lot of credit, but I am certain that a number of our players would like this opportunity back. We will surely need to be tougher if we are to meet most of the goals that we have set for our­selves.” 
Junior captain Tyler Davis and Watt fell 8-4 at first dou­bles to Tulsa’s Ashley Watling and Phillip Stephens while the No. 2 duo of Havens and sopho­more Niall Fitzgerald took down Alastair Barnes and Marko Ballock 8-4. Anderson and junior Dan Stahl kept Notre Dame’s lead growing as they won over Rusty Turpin and Grant Ive at No. 3 doubles. 
The Golden Hurricane started cutting in on the Irish lead in the singles division. Although freshman Blas Moros, ranked No. 74, beat out Ive 6-2, 6-0 at No. 5 singles to give the Irish another point, Hurricane victo­ries at Nos. 2, 3, 4, and 6 sin­gles put them on top. 
Watt dropped the first set of his singles match to Stephens 6­1, he rallied to win the second and third sets 6-3, 6-2. Havens fell 6-2, 7-6 (7-2) to Watling at the No. 2 position and Stahl fell 3-6, 7-6 (7-5), 6-4 to Barnes at No. 3. At No. 4, Fitzgerald lost 6-0, 6-4 to Ballok and freshman Michael Moore lost 6-2, 4-6, 6-1 to Tristan Jackson at No. 6 sin­gles. Stahl’s battle against Barnes closed out the match and allowed Tulsa to advance. 
Notre Dame started the morn­ing off strong with No. 3 dou­bles of freshman Spencer Talmadge and Anderson defeat­ing New Mexico’s Joe Wood and Conor Berg to jumpstart the Irish lead. No. 1 doubles of Watt and Davis paired up to take down Phil Anderson and Carl Ho, 8-6. Havens and Fitzgerald rounded out the doubles with another 8-6 win over Ben Dunbar and Jadon Phillips to finish the Irish sweep. 
Watt led the Irish singles in the No.1 position with a 7-5, 6­2 win over Ho as Havens defeated Phillips 6-4, 6-2 at No. 2 singles. Anderson won at No. 5 over Wood, 6-0, 6-4 as No. 3 and No. 6 singles of Blas Moros and Samuel Keeton remained unfinished as Notre Dame won the match. 
“We learned that we need to finish teams off when we get on top,” Bayliss said. “That cost us the Tulsa match. We also learned that we are pretty deep. Not many teams can replace two starters with no notice and be successful in both positions. We know that we are good enough to become a very good team, but that there is much work to be done before that happens.” 
The Irish will return to the courts Sunday, Feb. 7, as they travel to Durham, N.C., to take on Duke. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@nd.edu 
Lorenz 
continued from page 24 
period. 
Freshman goaltender Mike Johnson held the lead for Notre Dame late into the third period as he denied 32 of 34 shots on the night. 
“There is no question, [Johnson] was the difference maker tonight,” Jackson said. “I don’t think he was that sharp [Friday], but he is capa­ble of playing like that all the time, and I’ll tell you what, if he can ever learn to do it on a consistent basis, he’ll be one of the best in the country.” 
The Irish needed Johnson’s best as six players were out to injury, and junior Ben Ryan was held out due to a coaches’ decision. 
Nebraska-Omaha finally put a goal on the scoreboard with less than six minutes left in the game as Notre Dame’s lack of depth started to show. With an extra attacker, the Mavericks scored once more with only 26 seconds left in the contest. 
“Our depth is an issue right now with guys being out,” Jackson said. “We only dressed 19, and it showed up a little bit in the end. I think fatigue was a factor in the last 10 minutes.” 
The win, combined with results across the rest of the CCHA, moved the Irish into a tie with Lake Superior State for fourth in the conference with 32 points. With two teams tied for sixth and anoth­er two for eighth, the differ­ence between fourth place and ninth place is currently only two points. 

Notre Dame wore special game jerseys over the week­end to raise funds for the Wounded Warrior Project. All the jerseys were auctioned off over the previous week and the auctions tallied $16,604.60. Further dona­tions, including a $10,000 contribution from Class of 1980 Irish hockey All-American Greg Meredith, brought in $25,000 for a total of $41,604.60. 
Note: 
• Notre Dame assistant coach Andy Slaggert was named the recipient of the Terry Flanagan Award by the American Hockey Coaches Association Thursday. The award hon­
ors an assistant coach ’s career body of work. Slaggert has been an assis­tant coach at Notre Dame for 17 seasons. 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 
MEN’S SWIMMING 

Iowa, Mizzou defeat Irish at Invite 
Iowa swept the event by second in the 100 -yard 
By ANDREW OWENS 

defeating the Irish, Missouri freestyle. 
Sports Writer 

and Denver. Missouri also “[Lytle] is quite a racer,” defeated Denver. Welsh said. “He is extremely 
In their final meet of the Led by freshman Chris competitive and we hope that regular season, the Irish Johnson and junior Joseph he’s not done. We’re very defeated Denver (245-124) Raycroft, Notre Dame (5-6) proud of him. He has done but lost to Iowa dominated the everything.” (197-171) and breaststroke Junior Wes Villaflor finished Missouri (197-e v e n t s . second in the one-meter div­
173) at the “[Senior John Lytle] is Freshman Bill ing event for the Irish. Shamrock quite a racer. He is Bass beat the The Irish now prepare for Invitational at competition in the Big East Championships 
extremely competitive
Rolf ’s Aquatic the 200 -yard next month. Pittsburgh will Center. and we hope that he’s indi vid ual host the events, with the div­“It was a not done. We’re very medley in the ing portion taking place Feb. really hard only Irish win 12-14, while the swimmers 
proud of him.” 
meet and a real on Friday. will compete Feb. 17-20. A challenge for Heading into Big East Championship would everyone Tim Welsh the second give Welsh’s squad their fifth involved,” Irish Irish coach day of the conference title in the last six coach Tim tournament, seasons. Welsh said. the Irish “Our next race will be at “The good news trailed Iowa the Big East Championships,” for us is that we swam better and Missouri but were ahead Welsh said. “We need to clean every session and our energy of Denver. up and improve some of our and competitiveness was solid John Lytle was once again a events.” throughout. Also, we are top performer for the Irish. swimming faster than we The senior finished third in Contact Andrew Owens at were last year at this time.” the 200-yard freestyle and aowens2@nd.edu 
FENCING 
Fencers improve at Northwestern 
against Ohio State as well.
By KEVIN BALDWIN 
“What is very interesting is 
Sports Writer 
that we had some weapons from some matches we strug-The Irish put on a show this gled such as in women’s foil,” weekend as they dominated Bednarski said. “Same with challengers at the men’s sabre, we struggled in Northwestern Duals in New York but today we beat Evanston, Ill. The men’s and them decisively. It’s about tim­
w o m e n ’ s  ing  and  so  
teams  now  many  factors  
stand at 18-0  that  are  hard  
and  17-0  to control but  
respectively, i m p r o v i n g their stand­ “We have to be careful in building confdence.  we had very good results.” S o p h o m o r e  
ing  on  both  We don’t want to be  C o u r t n e y  
the national and regional  overconfdent.”  Hurley fought through the  
stages. “[It  was  Janusz Bednarski  pain of a foot injury early in  
an] excellent  Irish coach  the competition  
performance  but  came  
from  the  through  and  
team,” Irish  won all of her  
coach Janusz  events.  



Bednarski said. “It’s a confir­mation that we’re in a pretty good position in the region.” 
Only two weeks into the NCAA season, it is remarkable how much the team has improved since their last com­petition in New York. Junior Hayley Reese and sophomores Radmila Sarkisova and Darsie Malynn led a clutch overtime rally in the women’s foil, com­ing out in front of Ivy League leader Princeton. 
Junior Avery Zuck had an outstanding performance 
Top clubs from around the region will be converging on the Joyce Center next week­end for the annual Notre Dame Duals in which the Irish will have another chance to prove themselves before the conference championships in March. 
“We have to be careful in building confidence,” Bednarski said. “We don’t want to be overconfident.” 
Contact Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwi2@nd.edu 

Monday, February 1, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 
ND TRACK & FIELD 

Senior Ferguson sets NCAA mark 
By KAITLYN MURPHY 
Sports Writer 
The Irish put forth a strong effort this weekend at the Indiana Invitational in Bloomington, Ind., claiming multiple first-place finishes and setting one NCAA qualify­ing mark in the two-day compe­

tition. “[Senior Jaclyn Doug Onuscheck Senior Espinoza]’s ability to in the men’s L i n d s a y high jump with 
focus and stay in the
Ferguson set an a height of 2.02 NCAA provi-zone never ceases to meters. sional qualify-amaze me.” On the second ing mark with a day of competi­time of 4:45:92 tion, the Irish 
Adam Beltran
in the one-mile added to the race. She is the Irish throwing coach four first-place 
The Irish claimed several more first place finishes on the first day of competition. These included sophomore Molly Hirt in the 3,000-meter race with a time of 10:07:91, sophomore Mitch Lorenz in the 600-meter contest with a time of 1:21, the Irish A squad in the men’s dis­tance medley relay with a time of 9:53:24 and sophomore 
third to set an NCAA qualify­ing mark this season, along with senior Joanna Schultz in the 400-meter race and sopho­more Kevin Schipper in the pole vault. 
Senior Jaclyn Espinoza fin­ished first in the shot put with a throw of 14.26 meters. 
Throwing coach Adam Beltran commented on Espinoza’s talent and work ethic. 
“Her ability to focus and stay in the zone never ceases to amaze me,” he said. “Her posi­tive attitude has really allowed her to work through any incon­stancies and overcome them much more quickly than the athletes who easily get discour­aged.” 
finishes from 
the first day. 
Standout fresh­
man Nevada Sorenson continued to prove her dominance in the 60-meter hur­dles as she finished first with a time of 8.49, senior Eric Quick finished at the top of the men’s long jump field with a mark of 
7.46 meters and Schultz fin­ished first in the 400-meter race with a time of 55.72. 
In total, the Irish earned over 20 top-five finishes and will look to set more NCAA provisional marks at next weekend’s meet. 
The Irish will return to the Loftus Sports Arena for the Meyo Invitational next weekend. 
Contact Kaitlyn Murphy at kmurph28@nd.edu 
SMC BASKETBALL 
Belles fall to Alma in close match 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
The Belles fought down to the wire, but lost to MIAA opponent Alma 79-76 Saturday. 
The Belles (10-9, 5-6 MIAA) played tough and had to fight back to gain ground, but fell short as the Scots (4-15, 3-7) held on by sinking free throws down the final stretch. Sophomore guard Patsy Mahoney attempted a 3-point­er to tie the game at the buzzer, but the shot fell short. 
The Belles fell behind early and had to play catch-up as the Scots scored nine straight points in the first three min­utes to build a lead. 
Saint Mary’s fought back as usual and went into halftime leading 38-37. The Belles have fought back from early deficits many times this season. However, were unable to fin­ish. 
The biggest factor that decided the game was the free throw shooting, especially for Alma. The Scots nailed five free throws in the final minute of the game, putting them ahead of the Belles for good. 
Saint Mary’s did have some positives from the offensive side of the ball, however. Sophomore forward Kelley Murphy led the team with 19 points and senior forward Anna Kammrath recorded her fifth double-double of the sea­son by adding 18 points and 10 rebounds. To provide addi­tional support, sophomore guard Maggie Ronan went 5­of-9 shooting to add 15 points for the team. 
The Belles kept the game close and the lead changed hands numerous times throughout the game. Freshman guard Annie Doyle made a layup to give the Belles a 62-55 lead with just under 10 minutes remaining in the game. This was the biggest lead Saint Mary’s would hold during the game. 
At this point in the game, Alma began to make their final drive to finish off the Belles. Although the game would be tied two more times late in the game, Alma held off the Belles’ attempts to try to regain the lead. 
Saint Mary’s returns to action on Wednesday in a cru­cial conference matchup at home against Adrian at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Laxers fall to national teams 
Obsever Staff Report 
No. 9 Notre Dame chal­lenged two national teams this weekend in the Champion Challenge at the Disney World of Sports in Lake Buena Vista, Fla. 
The Irish fell 23-7 to the 
U.S. 
National Elite Team Saturday and lost 15-11 to the 

U.S. 
National Development team Sunday. 


Junior midfielder Shaylyn Blaney, senior attack Gina Scioscia and junior midfielder Ansley Steward led the Irish Saturday with two goals each while freshman attack Betsy Mastropieri scored one. 
Former Irish player Jillian Byers, who graduated in 2009, scored three goals and had three assists for Team USA. 
On Saturday, Scioscia led Notre Dame with three goals and sophomore midfielder Maggie Tamasitis had two. Six other Irish players scored one goal each. 
On the weekend, freshman goalkeeper Ellie Hilling made 17 stops. 
The Irish will begin their regular season on Feb. 23 against Hofstra in Hempstead, 
N.Y. and will open at home on Feb. 27 against Duquesne. 



page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, February 1, 2010 
Lead 
continued from page 24 
away to a two-point deficit with less than a minute to go in the second half. Syracuse began the second half with a 21-5 scoring advantage to erase the Irish lead. 
The Orange defense was sti­fling in the second half, holding the Irish to 25 percent shooting from the floor. Syracuse also held the advantage in points in the paint 38-20 in the period, and outre­bounded the Irish 49-34. 
Scarlet Knights collected 13 

“We just really did not 
“Defensively, than a second to 
offensive rebounds as a team, 

we could not play our game, and yet go. The Orange 
often converting them into 
second-chance points. 

guard the despite all the foul could not con-
ball,” McGraw vert and the 
“We made a run at it, but of 

trouble and ice-cold
said. “They got Irish extended 
couple of offensive rebounds 

to the line 37 shooting in the second their winning 
really hurt us, which is an 
area in this league we can 

times. We did half, we managed to streak to four. 
a poor job con-“We just really 
always be hurt,” Brey said. “It 

hold onto the win.” 
taining the did not play our 
hurt us badly tonight.” 

ball, and we game, and yet 
Notre Dame overcame its 

did a poor job Muffet McGraw despite all the 
slow start with a huge 24-7 

on the Irish coach foul trouble and 
boards.” 
The Irish nailed eight 3-pointers in the first half, but the 3-point well dried up in the second half, with Notre Dame going just 2­of-12 in the period. The cold shooting sparked Syracuse on its second half run, which gave them a legitimate shot at sneaking away with the victory. 
But the Orange were killed by 25 turnovers, a hallmark of this year’s Irish squad, and poor shooting from the line. Syracuse also missed 14 free throws. 
Despite the sloppy play, Syracuse held a 73-71 advan­tage after a senior forward Juanita Ward hit a field goal with an and-1 for a 3-point play with less than a minute to go in the game. 
That’s when Barlow stepped up to make her game-winning shot with 34.2 seconds to go in the game. The shot was partic­ularly remarkable because of 

SMC SWIMMING 

Belles fall to conference foes in season’s last meet 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 
This weekend brought a rough patch for the Belles. They faced No. 14 Calvin and Alma in their last meet of the regular season and lost to both teams. Calvin defeated the Belles by a score of 
177 .5-58 .5, while Alma took the Irish’s inability to hit the 3­ball in the second half. Barlow had missed her previous four before the game-winner. 
“We just had to stay with it,” Barlow said. “We did not hold our heads down.” 
Barlow matched her season high in points with 19. Freshman guard Skylar Diggins also matched her season high with a team-leading 21 points. 
The Orange got one last chance to take back the lead before the end of regulation when a missed 1-and-1 from senior guard Lindsay Schrader and a held ball gave Syracuse the ball with less 
ice-cold shooting 
in the second half, we managed to hold onto the win,” McGraw said. 
The win was Notre Dame’s 22nd against the Orange in 23 all-time meetings. 
Notre Dame will travel to Piscataway, N.J., for another matchup tonight against Big East mainstay Rutgers (12-9; 4­3 Big East). 
Rutgers is led by senior guard Brittany Ray, who paces the team with 15.3 points per game. Ray is the only Rutgers player in double digits, howev­er, as the next highest scorer is sophomore guard Khadijah Rusidan with a 7 points per game average. 
The Scarlet Knights also lost to Syracuse earlier this year 66-79. 
Tip-off is at 7:30 pm in the Louis Brown Athletic Center. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 
100-yard 

“We had some good 
over at 125-97. backstroke with While the team swims, but not enough a time of 
was not happy to win it.” 1:06.69. with its perform-Another third­ance, the swim-place finish was 
Ellie Watson 
mers still added by senior showed Belles freshman co-captain Sara yard freestyle with a time of 
11:04.93. This time was her best of the season and was the fourth-best time ever recorded for Saint Mary’s for the event. Watson added to the night once again, coming in third in the 100-yard freestyle with a time of 58.22. 
The third member of the fresh­
man trio, Caila Poythress, fin­ished third in the 
improvements. 
“As a team we were hoping to come out on top with a victory this weekend. We had some good swims, but not enough to win it,” freshman Ellie Watson said. 
As they have done consistently all season, the team’s freshmen came through, racking up points and putting up early finishes. 
Freshman Katie Griffin showed her strength yet again, coming in first place in the 100-yard butter­fly at 1:02.14. 
Watson also performed well, coming in second in the 1000­Niemann in the 
500-yard freestyle at 5:38.22. 
From here, the Belles have two weeks to continue working together and pushing each other. 
“Now we are just focusing on getting ready for our conference meet,” Watson said. 
The team will travel to Grand Rapids, Mich., from Thursday, Feb. 11, until Saturday, Feb. 13, for the MIAA Championships hosted by Calvin. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
run, capped off by a three-point play by junior guard Ben Hansbrough. The Irish ended the first half leading by two at 35-33. 
After halftime the Scarlet Knights quickly took away the Notre Dame lead. A Rosario layup put the home team up five points at 44-39, and the Irish would never lead again. 
“They got tired. I kept talk­ing in the huddles, thinking we could make a little run, like we did in the first half when they had us down, but we could never get over the hump,” Brey said. 
Rutgers extended their lead to nine with just seven min­utes remaining, but the Irish were able to get within two points several times in the final minutes. Down a basket with under a minute remain­ing, Harangody was blocked by Ndiaye. 
After fouling a Rutgers play­er, Notre Dame gave up an offensive rebound on a missed free throw, allowing the Scarlet Knights to extend their lead to four. Hansbrough made two 3-pointers in the closing seconds to close the final deficit to one, but it was too little too late. 
Despite his struggles, Harangody led the Irish with 19 points. Junior forward Tim Abromaitis scored 17 points and 10 rebounds. 
Brey said he hopes Harangody was not discour­aged by the performance. 
“I hope he gets those looks Thursday night because I think the law of averages will say he will make those,” Brey said. “We don’t want him to stop doing that. I know he feels responsible.” 
Notre Dame will hope to stop its slide at Purcell Pavilion Thursday against Cincinnati, who defeated the Irish on a last second-tip in earlier this year. 
Tip-off will be at 9 p.m. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
Rutgers 
continued from page 24 
Hamady Ndiaye, and shot just 8-for-26 from the floor. 
“The big guy changes the game, almost [Hasheem] Thabeet-like,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “He has given us problems in the past, even in the times we’ve beaten them.” 
Senior guard Mike Rosario scored 24 points to lead all players, and Ndiaye con­tributed 10 points, five rebounds and six blocks. The 
and Rielley finished out the teams won the point by win-remaining points for the ning the following two Irish. matches. In the singles com-On Sunday, North Carolina petition, Frilling and Krisik 
h a n d e d t h e  e a c h b e a t  
I r i s h t h e i r  T a r h e e l s  
f i r s t l o s t o f the 2010 sea­son. “ [ T h e  “I defnitely think that if we get a chance to play [North Carolina]  p l a y e r s f o r t w o t o t a l Irish points. “I definitely  
T a r h e e l s ]  later in the season we  think that if  
w e r e v e r y i n t e n s e , w e g a v e t h e m  could get a different result.”  w e g e t a c h a n c e t o p l a y t h e m  
c r e d i t , a n d  l a t e r i n t h e  
t h e y c a m e  Shannon Mathews  s e a s o n w e  
here with con- c o u l d g e t a  
f i d e n c e , ”  d i f f e r e n t  

Mathews said. “They came out and were ready to play.” 
In the doubles competi ­tion, Frilling and Krisik won the first of the three match­es but North Carolina and their three ranked doubles result,” Mathews said. 
The women will next play at the University of Kansas on Feb. 5. 
Contact Molly Sammon at 
msammon@nd.edu 
Doubles 
continued from page 24 
DePaul early on in the match, but an Irish loss in the second doubles competi­tion left plenty of pressure for the third doubles team 
of Mathews and senior Colleen Rielley. Mathews and Rielley defeated DePaul 8-5, giving the Irish an early step up against the Blue Demons. 
“DePaul had good doubles teams, and they’re definite­ly going to surprise some teams in the coming sea­son,” Mathews said. 
Singles play victories from Frilling, freshman Chrissie McGaffigan and seniors Cosmina Ciobanu, Krisik 

Monday, February 1, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 



JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 

Sports 
Monday, February 1, 2010 page 24 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Just enough 
Irish escape as Orange comeback falls short 
By JARED JEDICK 
Sports Writer 
The No. 3 Irish began their New York/New Jersey road trip on Saturday with a 74-73 nail-biting win against Big East foe Syracuse. 
Senior guard and captain Ashley Barlow sank a 3-point­er with 34.2 seconds left in the game to seal the win. 
“That 3 was so big,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said Saturday at the post-game press conference. “We ran a play for her to get it and we executed it well, screened it well. Despite my screaming the entire half to stop shooting the three, she just kept her poise and made it.” 

Notre Dame (19-1, 6-1 Big East) held a commanding 53­39 lead at halftime against the Orange (16-5, 3-5 Big East), before watching that lead slip PAT COVENEY/The Observer 
Senior guard Ashley Barlow puts up a shot during Notre Dame’s win over Providence. Barlow see LEAD/page 22 hit a 3-pointer in the last minute of play Saturday to give the Irish a win over Syracuse. 

MEN’S TENNIS 
Irish win, loseatOSU regionals 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish rebounded for a 4-1 win Sunday against No. 51 New Mexico after dropping a 4-3 decision Saturday to No. 35 Tulsa at the Ohio State regional of the ITA Team Indoor Championship. 
“After the tough loss to Tulsa it was gut-check time on Sunday against New Mexico,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “It would have been easy to pout and not show up on Sunday, but I am proud of the grit we showed today.” 
No. 30 Notre Dame (3-2) swept the doubles division Sunday. Singles wins from No. 18 sophomore Casey Watt, jun­ior Stephen Havens and junior David Anderson to clinch the win Sunday and come out 4-1. 
Saturday saw the Irish take 
see SATURDAY/page 20 


HOCKEY 

Squad moves into tie for fourth place in heated CCHA 
By DOUGLAS FARMER Sports Writer  thought we played with more urgency, and we were executing our system much better [than  straight decisive Friday victo­ries. “I’m disappointed tonight  night of a two-game series for the goal scoring all season,” the first time since mid-Ridderwall said. “So getting out December. to a good start is key for us. It  
last night].”  because I thought  we  played  A four-on-three rush less than  helps us build off of that and get  
After an ugly 5-3 loss Friday  After goals from junior Ben  especially well the last couple of  seven minutes into Saturday’s  momentum for the rest of the  
night, Notre Dame regained its  Ryan  and  freshman  Kyle  Fridays,” Jackson said Friday.  game put Notre Dame ahead to  period and a little of the sec- 
form with  a 3-2 victory  over  Palmieri put Notre Dame (12­ “Tonight I thought  we  were  stay. Palmieri and junior Calle  ond.”  
Nebraska-Omaha Saturday. The  11-7, 8-8-6-2 CCHA) ahead 2-1  exceptionally flat. I’m going to  Ridderwall passed the puck  The Irish did indeed have the  
weekend split allowed the Irish  Friday night, Nebraska-Omaha  take  responsibility  for  it,  back and forth  on  the break  momentum as freshman Nick  
to  move into  a  tie for fourth  (13-12-5, 9-11-2-1) scored four  because I did not feel that we  before Palmieri set Ridderwall  Larson scored less than four  
place in the CCHA.  unanswered goals before senior  were  not as energized as we  up for  a  one-timer past the  minutes after Ridderwall and  
“We played the way we have  Brett Blatchford scored  one  were the last few Fridays.”  goalie.  sophomore Sean Lorenz scored  
been playing in the second  more for the Irish with less than  Again bucking the trend of  “It’s always important to get  eight minutes into the second  
half,” Irish coach Jeff Jackson  a minute left in the game. The  the last few weeks, the Irish  the first goal, especially when  
said after the win Saturday. “I  defeat ended a stretch of two  were dominant on the second  you have been struggling with  see LORENZ/page 20  

MEN’S BASKETBALL 

Struggling Rutgers beats ND 
By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
In desperate need of a con­ference win, the Irish appeared to have a break in the schedule entering Saturday’s game against a Rutgers team that was winless in Big East play. 
Instead, Notre Dame dropped the fourth of its past five games to the Scarlet Knights, falling 74-73 on the road. 
Senior forward Luke Harangody and the Irish strug­gled from the start, falling behind 21-11 in the first 10 minutes. Harangody had diffi­culty the entire game against 6-foot-11 Rutgers center 
see RUTGERS/page 22 


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Team finishes second at first home tourney 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
The Irish came in second place at their first home-hosted tournament Sunday, defeating No. 46 DePaul 6­1 on Saturday and losing 5­2 to No. 17 North Carolina during the Intercollegiate Tennis Association’s Kick-Off Weekend for the 2010 season. 
“We competed well, but we still have a long way to go from where we can be at the end of the year,” sopho­more Shannon Mathews said. “People missed a lot of match play they could have had in the fall due to injuries.” 
After topping each of the three teams in South Bend this weekend, including Notre Dame, DePaul and No. 33 Boise State, North Carolina was granted the opportunity to compete at the ITA National Indoor Championships at the University of Wisconsin in mid-February. 
Competition started on Saturday as the Irish took on the Blue Demons. The No. 12 doubles team con­sisting of sophomore Kristy Frilling and senior Kali Krisik shocked the No. 9 first doubles pair from 
see DOUBLES/page 22 





