the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Professors react to midterm elections 
Notre Dame faculty members reflect on political ramifications of big Republican gains 
By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
After Republicans won big in midterm elections last week, Notre Dame professors said the party’s gains could lead to a stronger sense of party division in the coming term. 
“The Republicans won big, so they have no need to compro­mise,” said Jack Colwell, adjunct professor of American Studies and South Bend Tribune columnist. “With Democrats, the more liberal Democrats won — it was the more moderate Democrats that lost.” 
The House of Representatives currently has 256 Democratic seats and 179 Republican seats. When the new Representatives take office, 239 Republicans and 188 Democrats will take the floor, with eight seats still pending, according to USA Today’s web­site. 
The Senate will go from its current 57 Democrats, 41 Republicans and two Independents to 51 Democrats, 46 Republicans and two Independents, with one seat still pending. 
Colwell said Indiana’s 2nd Congressional District, in which Notre Dame is located, had an interesting race. Incumbent Democrat Joe Donnelly narrowly defeated Republican Jackie Walorski for the spot in the House of Representatives. 

“It was amazing Donnelly could survive in such a Republican year in a Republican state,” he said. “One of the problems for the next session is that Donnelly is one of the more moderate Democrats, and one of the few left.” 
In the races for governor, Republicans also took the majority. 
Currently there are 26 Democratic governors and 24 Republican governors. After the new ones are sworn in, there will be 29 Republican governors, 18 Democratic gov­ernors and one Independent governor, with two races still pending results, according to USA Today’s website. 
When it comes to legislation, Colwell said he predicts prob­lems between party lines. 
“There will be stalemate,” he said. “The Republicans in the House of Representatives have had great success with just saying no.” 
He also said he sees trouble for President Barack Obama. 
“[Obama] will try to work with them — but it takes two to tango,” Colwell said. “I don’t see why Republicans would work with him … I doubt they will work with him.” 
see ELECTION/page 4 

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 



Dorms compete to conserve energy 

By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 

If you walk out of your dorm room this month and see only half the lights on in the hallway, chances are it isn’t an accident. 
Keeping lights on the “half-on” setting typically used after pari­etals is one way dorms are sav­ing energy during this month’s third annual Dorm Energy Competition. 
The main objective of the com­petition is for students to realize how much energy they are actu­ally using, said Rachel Novick, education and outreach pro­grams manager for the Office of Sustainability. 
“The goal is for students to become more conscious about the energy they use and particu­larly the energy that gets wast­ed,” Novick said. “And also to see what kind of creative ways they can find to save energy.” 
The title went to Walsh Hall in 2008 and Cavanaugh Hall in 2009. 
Cavanaugh was able to reduce their energy use by 34 percent for the month. Former rector 
see ENERGY/page 4 


Seniors weigh options for class Legacy Fund 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
After sifting through hun­dreds of suggestions from Notre Dame seniors, the final options for the Class of 2011 Legacy Fund focus on helping students who are in need of financial assistance. 
Each year, the Student Development Committee (SDC) chooses a few ideas for the fund and the senior class votes on them and chooses where they would like their donations to go. 
There are five choices this year, and the voting began about a week ago and will most likely extend until Wednesday, said SDC Co-Chairs Maggie Nettesheim and Maria Sellers. 
“Something we definitely thought about a lot is that we wanted it to be something that would continue to make a dif­ference on campus,” Nettesheim said. “We wanted it to be something that would improve life on campus and would continue to do so.” 
This year’s choices focus on providing funds for students who are in need of financial aid for a variety of occasions. 
The first option is a study abroad assistance fund. This program would be designed for students on financial aid who wish to go to abroad, Nettesheim said. 
“If they choose to go abroad, it would give them a little more spending money,” Nettesheim said. 
The second choice is a partial tuition scholarship for incoming freshmen each year. 
Seniors’ third option is a 
see LEGACY/page 4 


CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 


Group discusses Four Loko 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 

The University will investi­gate the dangers of alcoholic energy drinks like Four Loko, a caffeinated, alcoholic beverage with 12 percent alcohol content, and discuss whether banning such drinks from campus would be the right move, a University rep­resentative said at Monday’s Campus Life Council (CLC) meeting. 
Assistant vice president for Student Affairs Brian Coughlin asked council mem­bers to participate in the committee that will decide how to handle Four Loko on campus. 
“We do not want to make this decision in a vacuum,” 
see CLC/page 5 

TOM YOUNG/The Observer Chief of staff Nick Ruof and student body president Catherine Soler participate in the conversation at Monday’s CLC meeting. 

INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Tony Award winner teaches at SMC page 3  Music under the radar page 8  Men’s, women’s interhall results page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Tuesday, November 9, 2010 

QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT IS YOUR SPIRIT A IMAL?
THE OBSERVER 







P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 

Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 

SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 obsviewpoint@gmail.com 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 obsphoto@gmail.com 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 

www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $130 for one academic year; $75 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 

and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 




TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sports 
Sarah Mervosh Molly Sammon John Cameron Michael Todisco Emily Schrank Andrew Owens 

Graphics Scene 
Brandon Keelean Marissa Frobes 

Photo Viewpoint 
Tom La Ren Brauweiler 


OFFBEAT 

Prospective juror in Ohio excused for citing Dahmer 
CLEVELAND — An Ohio man was excused from jury service after mentioning he was a childhood friend of cannibalistic serial killer Jeffrey Dahmer. 
John Backderf was among prospective jurors being screened last week by a judge in Cleveland. 
When asked if he’d known anyone convicted of a crime, Backderf responded: “I had a close friend in high school who killed 17 people.” 
The Plain Dealer reports Monday the answer caused the judge to freeze and lawyers to drop their pens. Backderf explained he knew Dahmer, who was raised in northeast Ohio. 
Sean McKelvey  Danny Domingo  Christina Murray  Elena Rodriguez  Bridget Apfeld  
freshman  freshman  sophomore  sophomore  sophomore  
Fisher  Fisher  Pangborn  Pangborn  McGlinn  

“Eagle.” “Lemur.” “Otter.” “Dolphin.” “Dolphin.” 

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail obsphoto@gmail.com 

Backderf is a graphic nov­elist about to publish “My Friend Dahmer.” He was dis­missed from the jury list. 
Dahmer confessed to killing and dismembering men and boys in Milwaukee. An inmate killed him in a Wisconsin prison in 1994. 
No fallen coconuts for Obama 
MUMBAI, India — Staff security checks at the Gandhi Museum before President Barack Obama’s visit — check. But the coconut palm trees, too? 
A few days before Obama’s visit Saturday, U.S. and Indian security officials visited the small two-story building and ordered the looping off of ripe coconuts from the trees to prevent any accidental bonking. 
“People do get hurt, or even killed, from falling coconuts. We had the ripe coconuts removed and some dried branches as well. Why take a chance?” said Meghshyam Ajgaonkar, executive secretary of the Mani Bhavan Gandhi Museum, located on a quiet street in this bustling com­mercial hub. 
In preparation for the visit, the museum was shielded from onlookers and neigh­bors by a high white tent that covered almost the entire building. The street was closed to pedestrians. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 

IN BRIEF 

The seminar “A New Model for Turbulent Dispersion” will take place today at 11 a.m. in Fitzpatrick Hall Room 258. Benoit Cushman-Roisin, pro­fessor of engineering at Dartmouth College, will pres­ent this installment in the Environmental Fluid Dynamics Seminar Series 
The lecture “Hybrid Peace: What Happens When Top-Down and Bottom-Up Peace Meet” will take place today at 
4:15 p.m. in the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. It is free and open to the public. 
The Notre Dame Fund to Protect Human Life will spon­sor “Dinner and Discussion: Bread of Life” today at 6 p.m. in the Oak Room of South Dining Hall. The dinner is intended to facilitate discus­sion about beginning of life ethical issues. Register for free by emailing ethics2@nd.edu. 
The Center for Social Concerns will sponsor a Summer Service Learning Program (SSLP) Information Session today at 6:30 p.m. in the McNeill Library of Geddes Hall. The SSLP is an 8 week experience within a 3 credit Theology course. The Center recruits Notre Dame students who are interested in expanding their education by working with and learning from persons who are marginalized in society. 
The Brazilian Cultural Fair will take place today at 8 p.m. in the LaFortune Student Center Ballroom. Students can sample Brazilian cuisine and participate in Samba lessons. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Wednesday Thursday Friday GAME DAY 



CORRECTIONS 

A Nov. 2 article titled “Habitat begins work on new house” misidentified the criteria Habitat for Humanity uses to select partner families. Habitat bases decisions on three criteria: ability to pay the mortgage by meeting income guidelines, demonstrate need of housing and a 

66 47 HIGH 6666 6455
willingness to partner by fulfilling program require­ments. The Observer regrets this error. 

38 38 LOW 4043 4235 






Tuesday, November 9, 2010 The Observer . NEWS page 3 


INDIA 




TonyAwardwinner 
Obama hopes to boost India’s status 
visits Saint Mary’s 
Associated Press 
NEW DELHI — Deepening America's stake in Asian power politics, President Barack Obama on Monday endorsed India's bid to become a permanent member of the U.N. Security Council, hop­ing to elevate the nation of a bil­lion people to "its rightful place in the world" alongside an assertive China. 
Obama's declaration, delivered to the pounding applause of India's parliament members, spoke to a mission broader than the makeup of one global institu­tion. By spending three packed days in India, announcing trade deals, dismissing job-outsourcing gripes and admonishing India's rival Pakistan, Obama went all in for an ally whose support he hopes to bank on for years. 
"I want every Indian citizen to know: The United States of America will not simply be cheer­ing you on from the sidelines," Obama said inside the soaring legislative chamber of the capital city. "We will be right there with you, shoulder to shoulder, because we believe in the prom­ise of India." 
To Obama, that promise entails shaking up the world order by giving more voice to developing countries that offer lucrative mar­kets for U.S. products and poten­tial help to counter terrorism and 
a warming planet. India fits Obama's agenda per­fectly because it is the world's largest democracy and sits in the heart of a piv­otal, vexing region. 
The diplo­macy in India also gave Obama a chance to reassert him­self on the 
global stage, far from Washington in the aftermath after humbling congressional elections. 
His final day in India began with a lavish welcome ceremony at the majestic palace residence of India's president and ended there as Obama and his wife, Michelle, were toasted to a state dinner. 
The capstone of Obama's out­reach here came when he announced support for India's long push to achieve a permanent place on the Security Council, the elite body responsible for main­taining international peace. It 


By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 

“I want every Indian citizen to know: The United States of America will not simply be cheering you on from the sidelines.” 
Barack Obama president 
Saint Mary’s Editor 
underlined Obama's con­tention that 

In recent years, Saint the partner­
Mary’s students have wel­ship between 
comed various theater profes­the U.S. and 
sionals to the college, includ-India could 
ing actor Glenn Close and have defining 
comedian Lily Tomlin. Tony Line,” according to the press release. Other credits include “On the Town, ” “Promises, Promises ” and “State Fair.” 
“My soapbox in life is American musical theater,” McKechnie said. “I learned with people who are incredi­ble. I am a professional stu­
“My soapbox in life is American musical theater. I learned with people who are incredible. I am a professional student and I have studied and I will continue to study.” 
Donna McKechnie Tony Award winner 
dent and I have studied and I will continue to study.” 
During master class, held in the studio in Regina Hall’s basement, four Saint Mary’s the ­ater students came before McKechnie and per ­formed a musical num­ber each had impact on both countries and the world. 
"The just and sustain­able interna­tional order that America seeks includes a United Nations that is Award-winner and Broadway actress Donna McKech ni e joined that list when she hosted a mas­ter class for students Monday. 

efficient, effective, credible and 
“How fortu­

legitimate," Obama said as he 
nate we are 

called for India to be part of a 
that our stu­

reformed council. 
dents are able 
Yet White House aides 
to learn from 

acknowledge any changes to the 
the masters 

council could be messy and years 
like Donna 

in the making. Attempts to 
McKech ni e 

expand the council have long 
and Lily 

failed  because  of  rivalries  
between countries.  
India  considered  Obama's  

move to be an enormous coup regardless. 
India is part of the so-called Group of Four, with Germany, Japan and Brazil, that has been Tomlin, both Tony Award winning -actresses,” Mark Abram-Copenhaver, a theatre professor at the College, said in a press release. “Ms. McKechnie is a master of not only the theater, but of what makes theatre sing — music 


seeking permanent seats as 
and dance.” 
major economic and political 
McKechnie, 
powers. U.S. backing for a per-
who teaches 
manent seat for India is impor­
an acting 
tant, but officials here must also 
class in New 
win support of the other veto-
York, told the 
wielding council members, and 
students in 
the General Assembly has to 
Mon da y’s 
agree on reform plan. 
class why 
The five permanent members 
teaching oth­
of the Security Council are the 
ers to act is 
U.S., China, France, the United 
important to 
Kingdom and Russia. The only 
her. 
other country the U.S. has 
“My job in a 
endorsed for permanent mem­
class with 
bership is Japan. 
students I 
Pakistan criticized Obama's 
teach in New 

“My job in a class with students I teach in New York is to ask them, ‘How do we make this more real for you?’” 
Donna McKechnie Tony Award winner 
statement, accusing India of "bla­tant violations" of U.N. resolu­tions and calling on the U.S. to "take a moral view and not base itself on any temporary expedi­ency or exigencies of power poli­tics." China has long objected to India's proposed ascension to the council 

York is to ask them, ‘How do we make this more real for you?’” McKechnie said. 
She said it is important to personalize a role and not to let fear cause hesitation. 
“We have to stay out of our own way,” she said. 
McKenchie won a Tony Award for best actress for her 

Special to The Observer 

It’s no coincidence that American workers have never been more dissatisfied with their jobs, and labor unions’ membership keeps dropping, according to a new study co­authored by University of Notre Dame political scientist Benjamin Radcliff. The study was published recently in the journal Social Indicators Research. 
Based on a study of unions in 14 nations, Radcliff found that people who live in coun­tries in which labor union membership was robust were happier – regardless of whether or not they belonged to a labor union themselves. 
“There’s both a direct effect of being a member and an indirect effect,” Radcliff says. 
role as Cassie in “Chorus 
been working on, and she supplied them feedback. 
After each performance, McKechnie gave the student direction and they worked through the song with her. 
Throughout the musical numbers, McKechnie said 
students need to put their fear aside. 
“We try to show because we aren ’t in complete relaxation with our ­selves,” she said. “Really feel it before you say it. It’s not about pain, it’s 
about freeing ourselves.” 

McKechnie said the difficul­ty in acting is bringing all the elements together. 
“We’ re integrating the words and the feeling and all of this,” she said. “That’s why it’s so complicated.” 
Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 

Notre Dame study says unions are beneficial 
Examining life-satisfaction data from several European countries as well as Japan, Australia and the U.S., Radcliff and his colleagues based their study on the notion that happiness with one’s life increasingly means happiness at work. 
So what, exactly, brings workers happiness? Unions, according to Radcliff. 
There are obvious benefits for members: job security, fair wages, benefits and decent hours. But for those who are not members, there is Radcliff’s “indirect effect:” 
“People who have union jobs like their jobs better,” he says. “And that puts pressure on other employers to extend the same benefits and wages to compete with the union shops.” 
page 4 The Observer . NEWS Tuesday, November 9, 2010 
mate is that both parties love “It was a big Republican problems for the two-party unemployment. China was their country,” he said. “If year,” he said. “They probably political system. important with these persistent 
Election 
continued from page 1 
The repeal of healthcare reform was on the campaign promise list of many candi­dates, but Colwell said this would be impossible. However, the newly elected officials could still do some damage. 
“Opponents will try to starve it,” he said. “They will try to sabotage it.” 
He said this could come in the form of redirecting funds away from programming. 
“The only thing that could help end the [partisan] stale-
Legacy 
continued from page 1 
stipend for students who would like to do summer service, but aren’t sure where their funds would come from. 
“The summer service one would be a fund for those who want to do service, international or national, but they don’t have funds for where they’re living,” Sellers said. 
Nettesheim said it would be particularly useful for students who do not feel they could give up a summer income, and it could apply to any service endeavor, even if it’s not through Notre Dame. 
The fourth choice is an emer­gency assistance fund. This money could be used at the dis­cretion of rectors in the event of an emergency, such as a death in the family of a student who is unable to cover the price of a plane ticket home. 
The last option is a donation to RecSports, which would allow for the purchase of new uniforms or equipment. 
SDC used multiple sources to gauge where the seniors wanted 

things started to get bad with would have won the Senate if 
s o m e t h i n g  the Tea Party  
like the econ­ didn’t  nomi- 
omy, you might see politicians on  “There is grounds for optimism for the Obama  nate so many q u e s t i o n a b l e candidates.”  
either  side  administration.”  The  Tea  
work  with  Party,  a  right- 
each other.” Some have called the  Michael Desch chair  wing faction of the Republican Party, received  
R e p u b l i c a n victory a  Political Science department  a lot of media attention dur­ 
“tsunami” or  ing  the  elec- 
a  “hurri- tions.  

cane,” Colwell said, but he also Michael Desch, chair in the said the landslide could have Political Science department, been larger. said the Tea Party created 
“There is grounds for opti­mism for the Obama adminis­tration,” he said. “The rise of the Tea Party is not just a problem for the Democrats but also for the Republican Party. There is a lot of anger directed at the Republican establish­ment.” 
Desch, who has a specialty in international politics and for­eign policy, said some foreign policy issues were in the back­ground of the midterm elec­tion. 
“China and trade [was an issue],” he said. “The overarch­ing issue was the economy and fears. We have an imbalance in trade with China.” 
Desch said what seemed to determine the midterm election results was not a great support for the Republican Party, but a general sense of unhappiness with the current government. 
“The problems with the econ­omy are long-term and struc­tural,” he said. “The problem is that there are no easy solu­tions. The American public doesn’t have the stomach for the solutions now.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 

the fund to go to, including booths at senior events and an online poll. Nettesheim said this year’s senior class was very enthusiastic in contributing ideas. 
“We got probably 200 sugges­tions from the senior class when we did the online poll,” Nettesheim said. “We in the com­mittee then narrowed it down from those suggestions.” 
The final outcome of the vote will most likely be announced in December. 
Tim Ponisciak, the assistant director of the Annual Fund, said the Senior Legacy Fund can gen­erate anywhere from $60,000 to $100,000. 
Contributing to the Senior Legacy is the first step into the Annual Fund, which is a general fund that accepts donations to support “virtually everything under the Dome,” such as finan­cial aid for students or advancing Notre Dame’s Catholic mission, according to its website. 
“In the spring we’ll send out a letter and brochure telling them about the sponsored fund, but also telling them a little about the Annual Fund,” Ponisciak said. 
Ponisciak said seniors are encouraged to contribute to the sponsored legacy fund, but they 
would have off power strips, 
“I’d defnitely like to 
been after unplug computers parietals. I improve on the and chargers,” think that overall savings and Desmond said. made the Some dorms don’t 
costs to campus, but
winning dif-have a great chance ference.” also to really try to at winning the com-
Overall last get every dorm to be petition due to long-year, resi-standing traditions. 
involved.” 
dence halls Sorin College presi­saved 58,800 dent Colin King said kil owatt -Rachel Novick his dorm has never hours. This is education and outreach done well. equivalent to “Sorin is infamous 
programs manager
8 4 , 0 0 0 for always coming in 
Offce of Sustainability
pounds of last in this competi­carbon diox-tion,” King said. “We ide emissions have a tradition to and adds up to a savings of put incredible amounts of $2,940 for the University, Novick Christmas lights up right before said. Thanksgiving and leave them on 
Some common approaches to at all times.” saving energy include hang-dry-The competition runs through ing laundry and unplugging elec-the end of November and the tronics when they aren’t being winning dorm will receive a used, Novick said. $500 prize, Novick said. 
Novick’s goals for the competi-“We have runner-up prizes too, tion not only include saving ener-and awards for sustainability gy and money, but also having commissioners who do really participation from every dorm. creative programs to get people 
“I’d definitely like to improve involved,” Novick said. on the overall savings and costs to campus, but also to really try Contact Melissa Flanagan at to get every dorm to be mfanag3@nd.edu 
are also welcome to make a dona­tion to any other fund at Notre Dame. 
“For a senior to participate in the legacy they don’t have to give to the sponsored fund,” 
Ponisciak said. “They can partici­pate in another aspect of campus that they feel strongly about.” 
Although it is targeted toward the current seniors, other mem­bers of the Notre Dame communi­ty can contribute to the legacy as well. 
“Through the phone center, we call their parents to see if the par­ents want to give on their behalf,” Nettesheim said. “Also, that fund stays in existence. Any alumni really could donate.” 
For Nettesheim, the Senior Legacy Fund is important because it gives seniors the opportunity to give back to the University that gave so much to them. 
“I think most of us leave Notre Dame feeling like it’s been the best four years of our lives,” Nettesheim said. “And if you can get seniors exciting about giving back to the university and start that commitment early then I think that’s great.” 
Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 



Energy 
continued from page 1 
Amalia de la Torre said she believes one factor in particular was crucial to her dorm’s suc­cess — parietals lights. 
“We kept half of all our hall­way lights out,” de la Torre said. “In other words, we kept the lighting the same as it involved,” Novick said. “I think that the dorms that were most engaged last year did an amaz­ing job.” 

Cavanaugh, the returning champion, is employing some of the same tactics as last year but also stressing the simple things, co-president Caitlin Desmond said. 
“This year we are doing simi­lar things, but also emphasizing to the girls to unplug things when you leave the room, such as turn 
Tuesday, November 9, 2010 The Observer  NEWS page 5 
CLC 
continued from page 1 
Coughlin said. “We want to have conversations about what is the best step for the University of Notre Dame and what is best for our stu­dents.” 
The committee would dis­cuss how to educate stu ­dents about the dangers of a drink like Four Loko and whether a ban on the prod­uct would be right for Notre Dame’s campus. 
Coughlin said the mixture 
of alcohol with caffeine makes alcoholic energy drinks like Four Loko par­ticularly dangerous to stu­dents. 
Students over the legal drinking age of 21 may pos­sess or consume drinks of less than 14 percent alcohol content in residence halls, and hard alcohol is banned from dorms, according to the student handbook, du Lac. 
“Technically Four Loko falls within the parameters of our alcohol policy for stu­dents over 21,” Coughlin said. “Right now the allow­ing [of] the drink goes on a hall -by -hall basis where each rector decides.” 
But Coughlin said the University ’s interest in researching the effects of Four Loko was sparked by recent incidents on campus. 
“This was born out of a high number of ambulance runs in the past few weeks,” he said. “The uptick of hos­pitalization was a catalyst for this conversation.” 
Several universities and state governments banned Four Loko as the risks of the drink became apparent, he said. Rectors on the council said they saw these dangers in their dorms as well. 
Stanford rector Fr. Tom Gaughan said his hall staff put out a word of caution to their students when he first learned about the product Four Loko. 
“To put a stimulant and a depressant in your body at the same time is a health risk,” Gaughan said. “And despite our efforts to warn students it has not deterred appearances in the halls.” 
Council members debated whether a ban would only increase interest instead of preventing students from drinking Four Loko. 

Student body vice presi­dent Andrew Bell said stu­dents looking to experience alcohol to an extreme would be drawn even more to Four Loko after a ban. 
“If something like this is banned, it is banned because it is dangerous,” Bell said. “As a side effect, because it is banned, people might do it more behind closed doors.” 
Educating students on the health risks of Four Loko will be a focus on campus whether or not the product is banned, Coughlin said. 
“I would hope that what­ever the committee decides to do as police is not the end of the story,” Gaughan said. “That is one part of the story, but the other part is ongoing education.” 
The committee is unsure about whether the drink will be banned but will con­
s i d e r  a l l  t h e  o p t i o n s ,  
Coughlin said.  
“Ultimately  we  are  going  

to make the best decision we can for the health and safety of the student body,” Coughlin said. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 

UNITED NATIONS 

Nobel laureate says opposition is growing 
Associated Press 

UNITED NATIONS — Iranian Nobel laureate Shirin Ebadi said Monday that opposition to the Iranian government is grow­ing, spurred by an increase in government violence, more human rights viola ­tions and deepening pover­ty. 
The human rights lawyer, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2003 for her efforts to promote democracy, said in an interview with The Associated Press that she came to the United Nations to talk about the deteriorat­ing human rights situation in Iran and seek support for a draft U.N. General Assembly resolution that would condemn the coun ­try’s rights record. 
Although much of the 
opposition 
movement has gone underground since the violent crackdown after the disputed June 2009 presi­dential election, Ebadi said it definitely isn’t faltering. 

“I can tell you that opposi­tion is increasing in Iran,” she said. “Not only the gov­ernment is becoming more violent every day, and there are more violations of human rights, but the issue 

of 
poverty has become another issue now. ... And, of course, poverty plays a big role in opposition.” 


She said the latest statis­tics she received had Iran’s economy growing by just 1.6 percent a year, lower than the rates in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
Ebadi urged the interna­tional community “to bring the voice of the people of Iran and the political pris­oners to the outside world,” stressing that the human rights situation in Iran “is very bad ... (and) is worsen­ing.” 
She singled out the case of prominent human rights lawyer Nasrin Sotoudeh, who has been on hunger strike since Sept. 25 but stopped drinking all liquids five days ago to protest her detention in solitary con ­finement on suspicion of spreading propaganda against the ruling system. 
Ebadi said Sotoudeh ’s mother, sister and children went to visit her three days ago and they said “she was in poor health, she was weak, she couldn’t talk, and also her face was bruised.” 
But despite her weakness, Ebadi said messages she got from other prisoners “say she’s continuing her hunger strike — and she may not be able to survive this hunger strike.” 
Sotoudeh is believed to be 
one of the first lawyers jailed after representing several of the more than 100 activists and political figures tried on charges of fomenting postelection unrest. Her arrest in September was seen as a signal of a possible widen­ing crackdown on the pro-reform opposition that took to the streets to protest the victory claimed by President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad. 
Ebadi has lived outside her homeland since a day before last year’s disputed presidential elections. 
Doesn’t she worry that she would be arrested if she returns? 
“It ’s not important whether I am arrested or not, ” Ebadi said. “What counts is where I could be more useful for the people of Iran. And I feel that today with the censorship that 
e x i s t s  i n  I r a n  I  c o u l d  b e  
m o r e  u s e f u l  o u t s i d e  o f  
Iran.”  

As for the three American hikers charged with spying on Iran after being detained near the border with Iraqi Kurdistan in July 2009, Ebadi said, “even if they did have the intention of spying, they didn’t have the time to do that.” 
“So I look at this as a political matter. I think that the government has taken these people as hostages, and that’s because a num­ber of people in the govern­ment of Iran are in prison in the United States, and they want to probably exchange them with those who are here,” she said. 
Ebadi said Sotoudeh was drinking liquids when she went on hunger strike on Sept. 25 to protest her con­finement. 
“Now, she ’s on a dry hunger strike,” Ebadi said, because the prosecutor and her interrogators told her they would respond to her legal demands but they haven’t, “and she believes that this has been a fraudu­lent issue on the side of the government.” 
The Nobel laureate also raised the case of impris­oned journalist Abdul Reza Tadjik, saying the only accu­sation against him is that he prepares reports on human rights violations in Iran. When he was apprehended, he was forced to stand nude before his interrogators, and when he protested say­ing it was an “insult ” he was beaten, Ebadi said. 
Tadjik told his sister what happened a month later when she visited, and his sister complained publicly and to the prosecutor, she said. Now, a criminal file has been opened against the sister and she “may be imprisoned pretty soon, ” Ebadi said. 
The Nobel laureate said she had no information on the fate of 43 -year-old Sakineh Mohammadi Ashtiani, who was sen ­tenced to death by stoning for adultery but may now be executed for murder. Her lawyer and son have been arrested, and the only word is the government ’s announcement that “the judgment has not been finalized yet,” she said. 
“I’m against stoning, and even many of the clergy in Iran are against stoning, and they have announced that it ’s not even Islamic and we should take it out of 
our laws, ” Ebadi said. “However, the government does not abide by that.” 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Tuesday, November 9, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

‘No Shave November’ 
Nine days ago, I, along with my fellow O’Neill Hall Mobsters and (I’m sure) many men across cam­pus, began the annual tradition of “No Shave November.” Scruffy neck beards and patchy Ankur Chawla facial hair undoubtedly A ssistant ensued. Still, as Scene Editor the competitive Domers that we are, those brave of heart and strong willed, always abiding by “Rule 76: No Excuses — Play Like a Champion Today,” have contin­ued on avoiding the razor. But the question arises, why do this? Apart from conformity and peer pressure, what good comes from 30 days without grooming? Well, dear readers, this column will (try to) tell you. 
A quick Google search of “No Shave November” gave little insight into the origins of the worldwide practice, but the clos­est historical match has its traces in Australia and New Zealand. In those two nations, November is better known as “Movember,” a clever combination of moustache and November. There it is treated as a fundraising campaign for men’s health issues. How someone could raise money by sporting a moustache is beyond me, but it does bring up possibilities for the tradition in the U.S. 
Noble causes such as raising money for Darfur and prostate cancer have spread across college campuses such as the University of Oregon and others. Additionally, it has been cited as means for water preservation, natural “beauty” and a means for “stick­ing it to the man” for overpricing razors and blades. I propose the University of Notre Dame organize similar charitable causes for mon­etary donations or mere aware­ness (how is this any different from sitting on a roof for X hours or posting where you like to keep your purse on Facebook in an attempt at making sexual innuen­dos?) 
Now, there are downsides to “No Shave November.” I estimate that a mere 27 percent of men on cam­pus can actually grow a reason­able amount of facial hair. It can be quite the unsightly sight. Yes, most women do not approve of the neck beard or sparse moustache (though granted, I’m pretty sure guys wouldn’t be thrilled if women partook in the festivities as well). Still, there are no actual hygiene implications or true downsides other than appearances. 
The competitive nature of this tradition is inevitably entertain­ing, and countless excuses for it can be made. If honorable causes can be furthered through it, why not let the beard grow out? Not to mention the awesome alliteration. 
I leave you readers with an anonymous quote I received while posing as if the issue of “No Shave November” was an Observer Question of the Day: “There are two people in this world that go around beardless — boys and women, and I am neither one.” 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Ankur Chawla at achawla@nd.edu 
Errors abundant 
How is error possible? This is ambigu­ous between two related questions. 
Consider the case of action: obviously, many people commit wrong acts — acts that they should not commit. The first question is fairly superficial: are such acts some­thing other than purposive move­ment — that is, mere behavior that is inexplicable as voluntary action, as good-seeking? The answer is 

Dan Sportiello 
clearly no: the wicked person — 
Bound 
Scrooge, for 
Variables 

instance, or Herostratus — thinks that the last end is money or fame, but he is wrong about what his last end actually is. 
But there is a second, deeper question: why should wickedness even be possi­ble? If the wicked person’s last end is not, in fact, money or fame, isn’t it strange that he could take it to be? Metaphysically speaking, this is deeply confusing: the good — that toward which the wicked person is determined to move 
— 
is objectively one thing but subjective­ly another. For Aristotle, it is as though a rock, though determined to fall down, nonetheless fell up. We never see final causality failing in rocks — that is, we never see rocks “sin” by falling upwards 

— 
so why do we see it failing in humans? Material causality, for instance, never fails in this way: it is not as though a human, though in fact made of flesh and bone, ever acts as though he is made of air and floats up into the sky. 


The answer to this second question is that everything is good to some extent: everything is a finite reflection of God, and since God is Goodness, everything that exists is good — that is, everything that exists can be taken, metaphysically 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
speaking, as one’s goal. The wicked per­son is not, as Aristotle makes quite clear, completely wrong: if he was completely wrong — if money and fame weren’t good at all — the universe would contain irreducible irrationality. Obviously, if the universe is a reflection of Mind — whose very essence is the Principle of Noncontradiction — this is impossible. But this is not how it is: the wicked per­son merely takes a partial good for the whole good. 
Consider the parallel case of knowl­edge: obviously, many people affirm false beliefs — beliefs that they should not affirm. The first question is fairly super­ficial: are these beliefs something other than cognition — that is, mere cogitation that is inexplicable as justified belief, as truth-seeking? The answer is clearly no: the confused person — Heraclitus, for instance, or Parmenides — believes that all is change or stability, but he is wrong about how things actually are. 
But there is a second, deeper question: why should confusion even be possible? If the world is not, in fact, all change or stability, isn’t it strange that Heraclitus or Parmenides could take it to be? Metaphysically speaking, this is deeply confusing: the true — that because of which the wicked person believes as he does — is objectively one way but sub­jectively another. For Aristotle, it is as though a hot rock, though truly a hot rock, nonetheless cooled the air sur­rounding it. We never see efficient causality failing in hot rocks — that is, we never see the surrounding air “believe” falsely by cooling after contact with a hot object — so why do we see it failing in humans? Again, material causality never fails in this way. 
The answer to the second question is that every belief is true to some extent: everything is a finite reflection of God, and since God is Truth, everything that exists is True — that is, everything that one can believe does, in some respect, represent the world that caused one to have that belief. The confused person is not, as Aristotle makes quite clear, com­pletely wrong: if he was completely wrong — if change and stability weren’t aspects of how the world actually is — the universe would contain irreducible irrationality. Again, since the universe is a reflection of Mind, this is impossible. But this is not how it is: the confused person merely take partial truths for the whole truth. 
One does not, of course, have to buy any of this. Most do not nowadays. But realize that, if one thinks that genuine irrationality can exist in the world — if, in other words, one admits the possibili­ty of Radical Evil and, for lack of a better term, Radical Falsehood — one raises serious doubt that the world is in fact a Cosmos — is, in other words, a reflection of Rationality Itself, the Creation of God 
— rather than just a Weird Thing that Happened. All of us held, once upon a time, that all things are, ultimately, born of God and, ultimately, directed back toward God. Some of us hold this still. 
But there are also drawbacks to buy­ing all of this. The results of our exercise in ethics and epistemology are disturb­ing at best: things that we usually take to be unqualified evils, like arson and con­fusion and genocide, must achieve some good. This is what all of our pious talk about God having a “larger plan” actual­ly means — that the universe, whatever the appearances, should have a purpose­ful ordering in which every part — no matter how depraved — has some func­tion, some role to play. 
Either of these options should make one profoundly uncomfortable. 
Daniel John Sportiello is in his third year in the philosophy Ph.D. program. Listen to his radio show on Thursdays at 2 p.m. on WVFI. He can be reached at dsportie@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Life does not cease to be funnywhen people die any more than itceases to be serious when peoplelaugh.” 
George Bernard Shaw Irish dramatist 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 

“To be nobody but yourself in aworld which is doing its best dayand night to make you like every­body else means to fight the hardestbattle which any human being canfight and never stop fighting.” 
e e cummings
U.S. poet 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, November 9, 2010 page 7 
Pollo e dumplings 
When she asked “soup or salad,” I asked in turn what my choices for the soups were. 
“Zuppa Toscana, Pasta e Fagioli, Minestrone and Pollo e Gnocchi,” she unintelligibly rat­
tled off from rote,  William Stewart  
not quite speak­ 
ing Italian so  Guest Column  
much as putting  
the syllables in  

the places she imagined a native would. 
My roommate and I turned con­fused glances toward each other, hoping that the other would be able to provide some helpful translation or an illumination of her words, the slightly furrowed brows and slack jaws betraying our complete bewil­derment. 
We snickered softly through our noses as the waitress’s shoulders slowly rose, and she, slightly exas­perated, let out a barely audible sigh. The silence from the menus prompted her to try again. 
“Cream of Potato, Chili, Vegetable, or Chicken and Dumplings.” 
It may have been the sheer stupidi­ty of the situation that made me pause as she walked away with our menus. The entire exchange, I real­ized, could have been easily avoided had she not begun with terms whose descriptive qualities were unrecog­nizable to the guests. Yes, but I’m missing the whole point of the restau­rant experience: the atmosphere is intended to be reminiscent of a quaint little ristorante in Florence or Rome. 
Yet, after the bumbled ordering scene, in no way was it that, or, for that matter, anything close to resem­bling that. The frustrated translation revealed that we weren’t the first table of gringos ignorant of the restaurant’s pseudo-Italian jargon, and it stripped away whatever gilded veneer of Italian mimicry that may have been established when I walked through the door. This bothered me 
— how could the whole atmosphere turn so sour so quickly? 
It’s not that my expectations are too high. I don’t expect a franchised restaurant that pays a reluctant mini­mum wage to employ native Italians or attract patrons who would under­stand what “fagioli” actually desig­nates. I don’t expect this restaurant to be the paragon of authentic Italian cuisine. 
What gets to me is the fact that the entire interaction with the waitress was a charade. Beneath the foreign appellations and Tuscan names, what she ultimately brought to the table were nothing more than plain, American soups. Maybe with a dash of oregano and a sprinkle of Parmesan cheese. Yes, I grant happi­ly that, with a few exceptions, the same ingredients constitute the majority of dishes eaten in Western cuisines. Perhaps the exchange over the soups should demonstrate to me the inherent similarities between so many facets of any two given cul­tures. 
But when the English description is longer than the Italian name of the daily special, I can’t help but feel that the entire meal is staged, that the entire meal is an attempt to fool me into believing that my meal is more authentic than a pepperoni pizza from delivery, that the entire meal is an exercise in unnecessary rhetoric and meaningless words. I can’t help but feel that the restaurant serves a large helping of fraud on the side of their masked courses. 
“Tonight our special is Pansotti con Pollo, large ravioli stuffed with four cheese, in a cream sauce with mush­rooms and peppers, and served with grilled chicken.” 
Tonight your special is feeble, empty words, words that must be qualified by long definitions in English and whose strange syllables are the only thing creating the illu­sion that we dine somewhere other than a strip mall, the illusion that we have escaped the suburban Midwest for the hillside of Assisi. 
Who am I kidding? That is astound­ing. 
In spite of the undeniable absurdity of the scene of exasperated transla­tion, without the foreign jargon, with­out those unintelligible words, the restaurant is no different than the American-themed fern bar across the street. Even in spite of the fact that they needed to be translated, it is those words and those names that transform this restaurant into some­thing different than the fern bar. It is nothing more than the words them­selves that create the stage and allow the actual, banal, domestic ingredi­ents to charade as imported cuisine and culture. Just the mere act of say­ing them forces one to acknowledge an expectation, no matter how small 
— not of a plate of Costco pasta sauce but a true Italian experience. So I yield to the supremacy of the word and swallow my annoyance. 
“I’ll have the Pansotti and the Pasta e Fagioli. Thanks.” 
William Stewart is a junior. He can be reached at wstewar1@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
The true end of an era 
When I was a freshman in the fall of 1966, the slogan on campus was “The New Era with Ara”. Ara Parseghian had come within one play of winning a national championship in 1964, and 1966 was shaping up to be “The Year.” 
It was. 

An undefeated season. A great feeling on campus. A feeling of pride to be a member of the Notre Dame community. Unfortunately, in 2010, that feeling is gone. 
The tragic death of Declan Sullivan and the loss to Tulsa only highlight the malaise that engulfs the once proud football program. The hirings and subsequent firings of Gerry Faust, George O’Leary, Bob Davie, Ty Willingham and Charlie Weis have been embarrassing, at best. Now we have Brian Kelly who berates players during games, defies logic with his play calling and avoids being ultimately responsible for foot­ball operations. 
Sadly, it’s not just the football program at Notre Dame that has lost its luster. While an undergraduate, I had a professor who charac­terized Notre Dame as “The truckdrivers’ Harvard.” With tuition, room and board approaching $50,000 per year, that “affection­ate” characterization of Notre Dame no longer applies. 
Until just recently I never fully appreciated the impact Father Ted, Moose and Ara had on the fabric of Notre Dame. Those three individu­als established a Golden Era at Notre Dame which should have been replicated. 
David Testone 
alumnus Class of 1970, 1976 Nov. 2 

UWIRE 

WikiLeaked truths 
The release of nearly 400,000 confidential Iraq war documents on Oct. 22 by the WikiLeaks website revealed a startling image of the secret history of the war in Iraq. 
The documents contain details of events reported by the United States military and provide evidence of sys­tematic torture and rape used as 
Stephen 
weapons of warfare. Sixty percent of the deaths registered in the doc-Bartholomew uments are civilian. 
The 
The documents reveal the use of 
Independent
indiscriminate and disproportion-
Collegian
ate force used and condoned by the US military. They also raise sub­stantial questions concerning war crimes. This leak has been the largest release of classified military documents in history. 
Critics argue the release of this sensitive information will jeopardize US military operations and be used by opposition forces to seek out and kill Iraqi civilian informants working with the US military. 
Supporters of the whistleblower website contend the documents contain information the public deserves to know. According to the documents, as many as 15,000 Iraqi civilian deaths were previously unaccounted for. 
When President Obama was elected, he promised to conduct his administration with transparency. The amount of secrets revealed within the documents WikiLeaks released flies in the face of such promises. Obama’s promise for transparency has gone the way of his promise to close Guantanamo Bay. 
To be fair, the files document the Iraq war during a time Obama was not president, but that doesn’t excuse him from failing to hold the Bush administration accountable. 
Secrets and lies are what paraded the US into the war in Iraq. The WikiLeaks files reveal that secrets and lies have only prolonged that war. 
It is difficult to justify a war waged under false pretens­es. It is also tough to support a war effort that tolerates torture and civilian murder and gives private contractors free reign. 
Julian Assange is the spokesperson and editor in chief for the WikiLeaks website. As would be expected, he is receiving a great deal of flak for releasing the Iraq docu­ments. News organizations are wondering why he isn’t dead yet and claiming that the US government should list him as an enemy combatant, which would deprive him of the right to due process. 
This doesn’t seem right. Shouldn’t he be considered a champion of truth and democracy? Don’t the people have a right to know about the sort of devastation and destruction that is happening in their name, with their tax dollars? 
The WikiLeaks files are important for the historical record as primary documentation of the many mishan­dlings of a complicated war. It appears the media is more concerned with attacking Julian Assange than with dis­cussing the issue of human rights the documents raise. 
In 1971, Daniel Ellsberg, a former Rand Corporation employee, released Department of Defense documents that detailed the United States political-military involve­ment in Vietnam from 1945 to 1967. The documents became known as the Pentagon Papers and indicated, among other things, that the Johnson administration had systematically lied to the public and to Congress. The publication of the papers caused a national outcry for government transparency and accountability. 
Today, the socio-political landscape is much different. Many major media outlets have expressed their disgust over the release of the WikiLeaks documents. 
On the other hand, some media sources commend the website for its courage and goodwill comment of being unsurprised by the lack of government honesty. There is no palpable call to action or demand for accountability. Instead the politically discontent shrug their shoulders and brush off the failure of military responsibility. 
Wikileaks is trying to pull the wool out of the eyes of a world that prefers to live in the dark. 
An Army whistleblower, Spc. Bradley Manning, is cur­rently in custody. He is suspected for leaking thousands of Iraq war documents to WikiLeaks. The Obama admin­istration has brought as many prosecutions for leaks to the American public as all previous administrations com­bined. Granted, it is a small number — three — but it is still important to note. 
The administration is also threatening to use the Espionage Act to prevent further leaks. If that happens, the American public will know even less about the destruction that is happening in their name. 
This past summer, WikiLeaks released over 70,000 documents relating to the Afghanistan war. The same national security concerns were raised at the time. But the Associated Press recently obtained a pentagon letter stating that no US intelligence services or practices were damaged after the release of the documents. 
For a democracy to function as a true democracy the governing body must live up to the public’s expectation of transparency and accountability. WikiLeaks is providing information the United States government was expected, but failed to provide. The Iraq documents establish firmer ground for dissidents to stand upon in denouncing this despairingly unjust war. 
This article first ran in the Nov. 2 edition of The Independent Collegian, the daily publication serving the University of Toledo. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Tuesday, November 9, 2010 

The Situation: Music hunters seek, read, blog and cull music from radio, print and most often, the inter-
webs. Music gatherers collect mix CDs, free digital 
downloads, and whatever their friends happen to be lis­
tening to. If you are a gatherer, this space is for you. If 
you are a hunter, e-mail me your latest find, and I 
promise you’ll find it written up here. (Seriously. E­
mail. Even if you’re not a student.) 
Hello, darling readers. I have been MIA for the past few weeks, but the music industry has trod on, blindly 
Stephanie DePrez unaware of my lack of presence. I do hope you will forgive me for getting a bit “Drowsy” last week, instead of keeping my ear to the ground to keep you
Scene Writer 

plugged in. 
This week I would like to take a journey back to the days of ‘80s yore, when 
synthesizers ran freely and those black plastic shades with your dorm’s name 
on the side were popular — for the first time. I would like to take us into the ever-renewing world of synth pop. 
Depeche Mode 
The great granddaddy of all synth bands formed in the U.K. in 1980. With their fully electrified sound, they blew up a genre that had barely existed. Deeply rooted in a darker sound, and perhaps even more “goth” than the yet-to-exist goths, this band has influenced everyone from Linkin Park to Coldplay (who based the video for “Viva La Vida” on Depeche Mode’s “Enjoy the Silence” video). 
Tracks to Tap: “Never Let Me Down,” “Precious,” “Enjoy the Silence,” “Stripped” 
Gary Newman 
Go look up the song “Cars” right now. Do it. Now, tell me that it isn’t the most awesomely synthesized track you’ve ever heard. Newman is a one-man band that survived failure after failure until he began plugging out hits in the 1980’s. For some wild visuals, YouTube “DieHard Battery vs. Gary Newman” for one of the most inventive commercials you’ll ever see. 
Tracks to Tap: “Are ‘Friends’ Electric?” “Cars” 
The Buggles 
Add these guys to the list of great ‘80s artists who have been pillaged by the 21st century. Their beats seem to keep popping up in the background of the latest pop hits coming out of the speakers at the Backer. But their original sound gave us the immortal words “Video Killed the Radio Star” before both mem­bers moved on to join the band Yes. 
Tracks to Tap: “Video Killed the Radio Star,” “Living in the Plastic Age” 
All right, my hunters. I have now a quest for you: this week, send me the wackiest music videos you’ve ever seen. Modern, dated, Peter Gabriel or Gabe Dixon, let me know which music videos are so outrageous that you can’t help but post them on someone’s Facebook wall. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu 

By ANKUR CHAWLA 
Scene Writer 

Robert Downey, Jr. and Zach Galifianakis star in this “Rat Race”-like story of a man racing across the coun­try before his wife gives birth to their first-born child. Galifianakis revisits his character as the unintention­
ally funny guy he played in “The Hangover” and “It’s Kind of a Funny Story,” while Downey, Jr. is an arro­gant, overambitious architect traveling back to Los Angeles after taking a business trip to Atlanta. The two actors work incredibly well together, feeding off each other nicely in this comedy. 
Peter Highman (Downey, Jr.) and Ethan Tremblay (Galifianakis) first cross paths as the station wagon Ethan takes to the airport breaks off the door to Peter’s town car as he gets his luggage. Awkward as this was, Peter brushed it off and went to his flight. While sitting before takeoff, anxiously texting his expecting wife, Ethan reminds him to turn off his cell phone because terrorists use phones to set off bombs. This discussion promptly lands the two on the no-fly list, with Peter’s luggage and wallet still on the flight. With no other option, Peter rides in Ethan’s rental car and hilarity ensues. 
Plagued by glaucoma, Ethan smokes marijuana more often than students on North Quad buy Starbucks. Speaking of coffee, Ethan carries his father’s ashes with him in a coffee tin and shows his honest and sensitive side to compliment the typical character he plays in every movie. His trusty and inappropriate dog Sunny takes a similar role as Carlos, the just-as-inappropriate baby from “The Hangover.” Inspired by the death of his father, Ethan hopes to go to Hollywood and make it on his favorite TV show, “Two and a Half Men.” 
An admitted rage-aholic, Peter lashes out at Ethan and most anyone he comes into contact with, up to and including an Army veteran and a 10-year-old boy. Not the best image for a soon to be father. However, in an understandably frustrating situation, he shows his depth as he warms up to Ethan and practices scenes with him at a rest stop and in the car. 
Despite this, “Due Date” did have its downsides. At times the movie got repetitive with the constant back and forth between Ethan and Peter acting completely nonsensically. The filmmakers played too heavily on Galifianakis’ character to provide humor as the igno­rant, awkward adult. This was done much in the same way Seth Rogan is always some form of a stoner with his trademark laugh and goofy face. Beyond that, too much of the movie is left with loose ends and meaningless scenes that add little humor and even less plot or character development. 
Still, this is a very entertaining, funny and fresh movie worth seeing. No, it is not “The Hangover” in a car, but it is funnier than most of the current alterna­tives — “Megamind,” “Life As We Know It,” etc. If you appreciate the ridiculous one-liners from Galifianakis such as “Dad was like a father to me...” and a cute dog companion, you will enjoy this movie more than the first snow of the year. 

Contact Ankur Chawla at achawla@nd.edu 
BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Tuesday, November 9, 2010 page 9 

BRANDON KEELEAN | Observer Graphic 
page 10 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, November 9, 2010 
NFL 

Cowboys fire Phillips after disappointing start 
Associated Press 
IRVING, Texas — Jerry Jones never wanted to change coaches this season. As the blowout losses mounted, and Wade Phillips’ defense was mostly to blame, the owner of the Dallas Cowboys had no choice. 
Jones fired Phillips on Monday and promoted offensive coordi­nator Jason Garrett to take his place on an interim basis. Defensive line coach Paul Pasqualoni was promoted to replace Phillips’ other role as defensive coordinator. 
“I recognized that after the game we just weren’t playing winning football and our best chance was to make a change,” Jones said. “We are grateful to Wade and his contribution to the Cowboys, leading us. We also clearly understand we are not where we want to be at this time, and that’s an understatement. We share the responsibility — all of us.” 
It’s the first time Dallas has made an in-season coaching change. Garrett becomes the first former Cowboys player to take over the job previously held by the likes of Tom Landry, Jimmy Johnson and Bill Parcells. 
Jones decided enough was enough following a 45-7 loss to the Green Bay Packers on Sunday night. It was the Cowboys’ fifth straight loss, drop­ping them to 1-7. 
The defense has allowed at least 35 points in three straight games, something that hadn’t happened to this team since going 0-11-1 in its inaugural sea­son, 1960. Stranger still, the unit features nearly all the same play­ers who closed last season with the first back-to-back shutouts in club history. 

Jones said his deciding factor was the defense’s erosion the last three games — bad against the Giants, worse against Jacksonville and trampled by the Packers, who actually backed off from scoring more than 45. Jones said he’d been “in denial” that the club was in such bad shape. 
“It really was paramount in my thinking that we would make adjustments and have our defense more productive and demonstrate a correction,” he said. “But I really might not be sitting here today if we had gone and played well against Jacksonville ... and then we’d gone to Green Bay and played lights out defensively.” 
This is the Cowboys’ worst sea­son since 1989 and among the worst in franchise history by record alone. It could go down as the worst-ever considering Dallas was coming off a division title and a playoff win, and was expected to contend for the Super Bowl that’ll be held at Cowboys Stadium. 
“I told (players) they should not think this an admission of defeat or finality in this season,” Jones said. “We have eight games left and we have one goal — to win.” 
Jones was clearly unhappy and uncomfortable. He spoke slower than usual, with longer pauses to collect his thoughts, and fiddled with his glasses throughout a 22­minute news conference. 
He called Phillips “somebody we thought so much of” and “a good friend, as well.” He would-n’t provide details of his conver­sation with Phillips, and became emotional as he described break­ing the news to the team. He said the focus of that speech was accountability. 
“I spoke of the realization that it’s not just about yourself,” Jones said. “It impacts others.” 
The 63-year-old Phillips leaves with a 34-22 record over 4½ sea­sons guiding the Cowboys. He also was 1-2 in the postseason. Dallas won the NFC East twice on his watch. 
Phillips released a statement thanking the fans and the Jones family “for all of the support” and thanked his coaches and players “for their loyalty and dedication.” 
“I told the team today that I have been proud to be a part of their family and that will never change,” Phillips said. “I am dis­appointed in the results of this season to this point, but I am also very proud of what our team and our players accomplished in the previous three years. In good times and difficult times, our players stuck together and never lost hold of their belief in each other and the strong team bond that they have shared.” 
The first game under Garrett will be at the New York Giants on Sunday. 
Jones said Garrett will have an opportunity to keep the job per­manently. 
“If we do outstanding as a team and we have very visible, tangi­ble success, then certainly that’s doing your job, if you will, in a crisis situation,” Jones said. “That kind of action goes beyond a resume.” 
Garrett has been viewed as the team’s coach-in-waiting since he was hired — days before Phillips, in fact. 
The 44-year-old Garrett was a backup quarterback behind Troy Aikman from 1993-99. He was the quarterbacks coach in Miami in 2005-06 before rejoining the club in 2007. He’s had the title of assistant head coach since 2008, when he withdrew from other interviews to remain with the club. 

His father, Jim, was with the organization for 22 years. Two of his brothers are on his staff: tight ends coach John and Judd, the director of pro scouting. 
“I do believe Jason has the temperament, he has the disposi­tion to affect a culture change,” Jones said. “I think this is impor­tant. We know all men’s styles are different. His style is one that I feel can be very effective.” 
NFL 

NFL fines Packers’ Collins for illegal hit on Williams 
Associated Press  including suspension.” The NFL is cracking down on  ing a football play. No injury, no harm.”  ness of player safety, but I was standing right there and I can  “It’s such a fine line, because you want guys to play aggres- 
GREEN BAY, Wis.  — The NFL  illegal hits, and players who vio- Packers coach Mike McCarthy  see what Nick Collins saw, too.  sively within the rules,” Capers  
fined Green Bay Packers safety  late the rules  are  subject to  said he spoke to side judge Rick  The ball was in the air and he  said. “That target changes some- 
Nick Collins $50,000 on Monday  increased fines or even suspen- Patterson after the  was trying to  times  a  little bit, and when  
for his helmet-to-helmet hit on  sions.  play.  run  through  you’re out there going full speed  
Dallas Cowboys wide receiver  Collins went helmet-to-helmet  “It was a bang­ “Commissioner  the proper tar- and that target changes a little  
Roy Williams. In a statement, league officials said Collins “violently and  with Williams after an incomple­tion in the third quarter of the Packers’ 45-7 victory over the  bang play and I felt that really when I saw the replay on  Goodell, don’t fne the guy. He shouldn’t get  get line and I think he hit Roy in the top  bit, sometimes you might end up 2 or 3 inches from where you aimed to begin with.”  
unnecessarily struck a defense- Cowboys Sunday night. Collins  the Jumbotron, it  fned.”  of the pads and  The NFL did not hand out any  
less receiver” in the neck and  was flagged for unnecessary  looked like Nick hit  went  up  into  discipline for the hit that gave  
head area with his helmet dur­ing Sunday night’s game at Lambeau Field and called it a  roughness. Williams said after the game that he didn’t think NFL  Roy in the back and came up to the helmet,” McCarthy  Roy Williams Cowboys wide receiver  the helmet.” P a c k e r s defensive coor- Indianapolis wide receiver Austin Collie a concussion in Philadelphia on Sunday.  
“flagrant violation of player safe- Commissioner Roger Goodell  said  Monday.  “I  dinator  Dom  Collie was hit by safety Quintin  
ty rules.”  should punish Collins for the hit.  understand  why  Capers  says  Mikell, then took a shot to the  
NFL executive vice president  “Commissioner Goodell, don’t  Rick threw the flag and we actu­ that while players are taught to  helmet from fellow safety Kurt  
of  football  operations  Ray  fine the guy,” Williams said. “It  ally talked about the mechanics  play within the rules, it can be  Coleman’s helmet in the second  
Anderson told Collins that fur­ wasn’t that bad of a deal, he  of it. That’s a tough call.  difficult to avoid a hit that is con- quarter. Collie briefly lost con­ 
ther offenses “will result in an  shouldn’t get fined. It was a foot­ “I think the referees are doing  sidered illegal when trying to hit  sciousness and was taken off the  
escalation of fines up to and  ball play, a football player mak­ a very good job with the aware- a moving target.  field by stretcher.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
If you have 3 quarters, 4 dimes, and Odontophobia is the fear of teeth. Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. 4 pennies, you have $1.19. You also have the largest amount of The 57 on Heinz ketchup bottles The most common name in the
FOR SALE PERSONAL 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't money in coins without being able represents the number of varieties world is Mohammed. House for sale on Angela. go it alone. Notre Dame has many to make change for a dollar. of pickles the company once had. 2.5K sq ft home. resources in place to assist you. If It is believed that Shakespeare was 4BR 3.5BA. If you or someone you care about you or someone you love needs The numbers '172' can be found on In the early days of the telephone, 46 around the time that the King 
has been sexually assaulted, we confidential support or assistance, the back of the U.S. $5 dollar bill in operators would pick up a call and James Version of the Bible was Furniture ?, can help. please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 the bushes at the base of the use the phrase, "Well, are you written. In Psalms 46, the 46th word fully redone. or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more Lincoln Memorial. there?". It wasn't until 1895 that from the first word is shake and the $365K information, visit ND's website at: someone suggested answering the 46th word from the last word is 
For more information, visit Notre http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. In the average lifetime, a person will phone with the phrase "number spear. 574-232-2211 Dame's website: http://csap.nd.edu. walk the equivalent of 5 times please?" on web at 610.sbrp.us around the equator. Karoke means "empty orchestra" in 
Japanese. ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— —————————————— ——————————————— 
Tuesday, November 9, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 11 
PGA 

European golfers shine on PGA Tour and beyond 
Associated Press 
SHANGHAI — The PGA Tour continues to shortchange the one World Golf Championship held outside the United States by only offering a three-year exemption to the winner if he is a member of the American-based tour. 
One person who didn’t seem the least bit bothered was Francesco Molinari, who won the HSBC Champions. 
“I’m a European Tour mem­ber,” Molinari said with a shrug. “I’m proud to be a European Tour golfer, and it’s a great moment for European golf, and I’m really happy to give my contribution to that. Honestly, going to the States, it’s not really part of my plans at the moment. I’m happy to consid­er it a European Tour win.” 
At the trophy presentation in near darkness on the 18th green at Sheshan International, with Chinese drummers adding a unique touch to the ceremony, Molinari was announced as the winner of a $1.2 million check. 
That translates to just over 850,000 euros, enough to move him to No. 4 in the Race to Dubai, giving him an outside chance depending on how he fares this week in Singapore. 
It used to be that beating the best field in golf, whether it was a major or a World Golf Championship, was essentially a free pass to the PGA Tour. Now it’s a matter of whether Europeans want to go, much less need to. 
Lee Westwood, the new No. 1 in the world ranking, tried a full PGA Tour schedule about five years ago and it didn’t work for him. He added tournaments just to meet the minimum require­ment of 15 events, and found himself going through the motions at times. Westwood played Las Vegas in 2005 to meet his num­ber. 
“That’s why I don’t join any­more,” Westwood said. 
PGA champion Martin Kaymer, eligible for a five-year exemption by winning a major, is said to be leaning against PGA Tour mem­bership, even though his girl­friend is from Arizona and the German spent much of his time there before he became a verita­ble star. 
The way this year has gone for Europe, its players can find plenty of competition at home. 
Europeans did so well on the PGA Tour this year, with seven players winning eight times, that British agent Chubby Chandler quipped midway through the sea­son that the Tournament of Champions in Kapalua “is going to be like a European Tour event.” 
One benefit for Europe when it began its “Race to Dubai” bonus program was attracting interna­tional stars, and it got the interest of Geoff Ogilvy, Anthony Kim, Camilo Villegas, Rory Sabbatini and several others. It was easy to meet the minimum of 12 tourna­ments because seven could be knocked through majors and WGCs before the Dubai World Championship. 
Last month, however, the European Tour tournament com­mittee decided to increase the minimum to 13 events. In a sepa­rate matter, it denied Kim a med­ical exemption despite the American missing three months after surgery on his thumb. 
To some, the increase was seen as Europe closing its door to out­siders. For others, it was good business. Europe needs its mem­bers to play more at home to accommodate sponsors in a tough economy. 

David Howell, who is on the committee but made it clear he was not speaking on behalf of it, wondered whether Europe need­ed U.S. tour members to make its circuit stronger. 
For every rising star on the PGA Tour — Dustin Johnson, Hunter Mahan, Jason Day, Rickie Fowler or Kim — Europe has just as many in Kaymer, Rory McIlroy, Alvaro Quiros, the Molinari broth­ers (Francesco and Edoardo) and Matteo Manassero, the 17-year­old Italian who two weeks ago became Europe’s youngest win­ner. 
Molinari is eligible for Kapalua, but not PGA Tour membership. He cannot even apply the money toward a tour card through non­member earnings if they were equal to No. 125 on the money list. 
A big reason for the PGA Tour not treating the HSBC Champions equal to the other WGCs is that less than half of the 78-man field has tour membership. At the other stroke-play WGCs in America, PGA Tour members accounted for at least two-thirds of the field. 
“I can understand if we weren’t playing a strong field,” Ben Crane said. “But I think if you can win a tournament like this — whoever you are — it doesn’t matter. You’ve done something pretty special. I think this should count for everything.” 
Molinari turned in one of the best performances of the year. Playing in the final group the last two days, he matched the low round Saturday and Sunday with a 5-under 67. Molinari beat Westwood by one shot, and he beat everyone else by at least 10. 
Europe swept the top five spots at Sheshan International, and 11 of the top 12 on the leaderboard were European Tour members. The exception was Tiger Woods. 
PGA Tour Commissioner Tim Finchem did not sound interested in counting this WGC like the oth­ers, from a three-year exemption to the winner to the money being official. He cited the HSBC Champions being too late in the PGA Tour season, and there’s merit to that. Europe still has three events remaining, ending with its version of a Tour Championship. 

“To add an event that late in the year at the end of the season is just not something we’re pre­pared to do on the money list,” Finchem said after the ceremony. “On the other side of the coin, I’m not sure it makes any difference. Our theory was players would come and support the event because it has a great purse, a lot of world ranking points. And that’s been the case. 

page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 9, 2010 
Sullivan 
continued from page 16 
Sullivan credits the rigor­ous Irish training schedule under head coach Tim Welsh as the biggest key to his suc­cess. 
“I think my training base has helped me to become a pretty good 400 IM swim ­mer,” Sullivan said. “It’s a really tough event, but all of the distance work we do in practice helps to prepare you for it. I also consider myself to be a competitive person, so getting the opportunity to swim in one of my best events against other competi­the way for the rest of the guys, and they all do an awe­some job of pushing me in the pool and holding me accountable. 

“This year, I’ve been mak­ing an attempt to be a more vocal and encouraging leader. But all in all, it’s a lot of fun, and the other seniors do a great job of helping me out and setting good exam­ples, as well.” 
With his senior year, and probably his last as a swim­mer, quickly ticking away, Sullivan is trying to make the most of every second of prac­tice and competition he can get. 
“I really think it all boils 
down to train­
ing,” Sullivan 
tive guys said. “I really 
“Being a captain for
always gets me have to make pretty pumped this team is one of the the most of 
up.” biggest honors I’ve every practice Sulli van’s and weights 
ever had in my life.” 
hard work has session if I been paying off want to this season for Mike Sullivan achieve my the Irish. Irish senior goals. I have to 
Amongst many great perform­ances, Sullivan earned sec­ond in the 200 freestyle, first in the 500 freestyle and first in the 200 individual medley against Pittsburgh. He also pushed the Irish to a win at the annual Dennis Stark relays by contributing to a second -place finish in the 800 freestyle relay and a win in the 400 backstroke relay. 
As a Notre Dame captain, Sullivan has led by example in and out of the pool. 
“Being a captain for this team is one of the biggest honors I’ve ever had in my life. I’m surrounded by an awesome group of guys, and it means a lot to know that they respect and look up to me in that sort of way, ” Sullivan said. “I always try to set a good example and lead trust in myself 

and know that 
if I keep train­ing, progress will be made.” 
Sullivan cites his brother as his biggest inspiration and his greatest motivator as a swimmer. 
“I would say my older brother, PJ, has been the most inspiring person for me in my swimming career, ” Sullivan said. “He was extremely talented, so it was easy to look up at him with respect and a bit of awe at the things he was able to accomplish. The motivation to be as good of a swimmer as he was is definitely some­thing that fuels me. I consid­er him one of my best friends, and I think swim­ming has been a big part of that.” 
The Irish next face Utah in 
Kuhlke said the close loss reminded the Irish of how important every race is continued from page 16 towards the end of a tight 
match. terfly. Maxwell came in first “One of the things we have in the 100-and 200-meter been focusing on this season breaststroke. is getting more involved in 
The Irish took first place in each other's performance, three other events against the and I think we definitely took No. 22 Boilermakers. Senior a huge step toward accom-
Kuhkle 
Amywren Miller won the 50-meter freestyle in 23.26 seconds. Sophomore Kim Holden took gold in the 200-meter backstroke after 
overtaking her Boilermaker oppo­nent in the third 50-meter lap. The Irish also won the 200-meter medley relay in 1:43.40. 
“Everyone was engaged and involved in their teammates' per ­plishing that goal yester­day,” Kuhlke 

“Everyone was 
said. “I think 
engaged and involved 
we learned in their teammates’ how much of performance a difference it can make 
throughout the entire 
and how meet, so we were important it 
fghting for the win is going for­
ward. It also 
together as a team.” 
reminded us that it’s a Kellyn Kuhlke total team 
Irish senior 
effort and every point counts, so from start to 
formance throughout the entire meet, so we were fight­ing for the win together as a team,” Kuhlke said. “We also had some people swim best times, which is generally atypical at this point in the season.” 

finish we need to have strong performances.” 
Next, the Irish will take on visiting Utah at Rolfs Aquatic Center, this Friday at 5 p.m. 
Contact Katherine Mack at kmack1@nd.edu 


a home meet, and while Sullivan is preparing, he has his eyes set on the Big East and NCAA championships. 
“For the rest of the season, I just want to keep getting faster each meet,” Sullivan said. “If that works out, then by the time the Big East meet rolls around in February, I will be able to focus on my main goal, which is to make the NCAA championship meet.” 
Sullivan is confident that he will be one of many Notre Dame swimmers at the NCAA meet this year. 
“Also, the team goal is to win that Big East, as well as send guys to NCAAs, ” Sullivan said. “Our team has been training very hard and holding each other account­able so that we keep those goals in mind. And I think if we keep up the good work and continue making progress, then those goals are very realistic.” 
Sullivan is ready to help Notre Dame win another Big East Championship, which he credits as the site of his best meet ever. 
“My best meet as a swim­mer for Notre Dame would probably be my sophomore year at the Big East meet,” Sullivan said. “Everything really came together that weekend, and I had some awesome races. And to be able to look back on that meet and remember how the team won on the final relay really makes it that much better of a memory. Knowing I was able to contribute to a Big East Championship for my school is an honor and something that I hope to be able to enjoy again this year.” 
Contact Maija Gustin at mgustin@nd.edu and Joseph Wirth at jwirth@nd.edu 
NFL 

McCoy shines in rookie campaign with Browns 

Associated Press 

BEREA, Ohio — Rookie quarter­back Colt McCoy has won two straight games — over star QBs Drew Brees and Tom Brady — and captured the hearts of Cleveland Browns fans everywhere. 
He’s played like a starter. He looks like a starter. He acts like a starter. 
Coach Eric Mangini just isn’t quite ready to call him a perma­nent one. 
On Monday, Mangini, staying true to his reputation for not revealing anything he doesn’t absolutely have to, would not name McCoy his starter for this week’s game against the New York Jets (6­2). Mangini, though, did concede that McCoy’s performance in Sunday’s 34-14 rout of New England has made it tougher to consider going back to Jake Delhomme or Seneca Wallace, who are both still out with ankle injuries. 
“He’s making the discussion harder and harder each week,” Mangini said. 
With a chance Wallace or Delhomme could practice this week, Mangini seems to be keeping his options open — and hoping to keep the Jets guessing. But what has become obvious over the past three games is that McCoy, the win­ningest quarterback in NCAA histo­ry, whose first three NFL starts have come against Pittsburgh, New Orleans and New England, is capa­ble of running Cleveland’s offense. 
He sure looks like the Real McCoy. 
Still, Mangini plans to check on the health of both Wallace and Delhomme before he analyzes the situation. He’ll then meet with offensive coordinator Brian Daboll and team president Mike Holmgren about his three quarter­backs and decide how to proceed this season. 

Tuesday, November 9, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 
goal, Siegfried was not totally dis-by junior running back and cap-
Dillon 

appointed after starting the year tain Dan Dansdill. Dansdill flat. punched it in from one yard out to 
continued from page 16 

“Considering where we started pull Alumni within one point at 7­
was just opening up holes the the season, I’m pretty darn happy 6. He had a game-high 97 yards 
whole time.” with where we ended,” McDonnell on 16 carries. 
While the offense was effective, said. Instead of trying for the extra 
the Dillon defense was the unit With the championship now on point, the Dawgs instead opted to 
that set the tone. The Big Red hand, Howard said Dillon plans to go for a two-point conversion. 
forced the Ramblers to go three-take confidence and effort into the After a hard snap gained Alumni a 
and-out six times. Stadium. yard and a half by drawing Sorin 
“Today wasn’t going to be the “We’re always confident in what offside, Dansdill’s plunge up the 
day we let up,” senior defensive we can do,” Howard said. “We’re gut was stopped short of the 
lineman Jack Winnike said. always going to fight 100 percent.” goalline. 
“Today wasn’t going to be the day Dillon will battle Sorin in the “We switched kickers and we 
that we made mistakes.” Stadium Sunday for the top prize. figured if we could get them off-
In fact, two mistakes nearly cost side, we’d go for it,” Dansdill said. 
the Big Red dearly. Up 6-0 after Sorin 7, Alumni 6 “[We] got them offside and they 
two field goals, Dillon gave up the Buoyed by a bend-but-don’t-just made a good play.” 
lead after two big Siegfried plays. break defense, No. 2 Sorin man-The Dawgs never sniffed the end 
Rambler senior quarterback Matt aged to stay afloat and advance to zone again. 
Meinert kept the ball on an option the men’s championship game in On the game’s final drive, 
and went 44 yards. Three plays Notre Dame Stadium by beating Alumni — needing only a field goal 
“The fall is for figuring later, he found junior receiver No. 3 Alumni. to win — got down to the Sorin 31­
some things out that you 
Stone

Frank Conway for a 32-yard On their first offensive drive of yard line after successfully draw-
want to carry over into the touchdown in the fourth quarter. the game, the Otters (5-1) drove 85 ing the Otters offside again on a 
continued from page 16 spring,” he said. The extra point gave the Ramblers yards in 10 plays, culminating with key fourth-and-five play. Penalties, 
Although the Irish have yet a 7-6 lead. a 21-yard touchdown pass from however, killed the drive and Sorin 
not common to the fall sea-to firmly establish lineups Things continued to appear grim sophomore quarterback Ted recovered an Alumni fumble at 
son, Notre Dame dealt with that will be used come for Dillon as precious minutes Spinelli to sophomore wide receiv-midfield. 
some rough water conditions. springtime, Stone said he is ticked off the clock. But when er Ryan Robinson, who finished “I’m really proud of my team,” 
Stone said the conditions, not worried at this point in Dillon sophomore Dan Balcarcel the day with four catches for 69 Dansdill said. “Congratulations to 
which the Irish do not often the year. blocked a punt, the Big Red yards. Sorin, it was a fun game.” 
face, forced his team to “Things change — people regained life, scoring on the next “[Robinson’s] been playing awe-While the Dawgs’ season comes 
adjust. In agreement with get more fit, get stronger and play. some all year,” Sorin senior run-to a close, Sorin will take on unde­
Sunday’s theme, however, he other things,” Stone said. “It gave us good field position,” ning back and captain Michael feated Dillon for the title next week 
said his squad learned from “There are lots of variables. Balcarcel said. “It really brought Browder said. “I’d be scared of in Notre Dame Stadium. 
the challenge. We’re probably pretty close the momentum back to our side him. He’s been scoring left and “What I would have given to be 
“Everybody got some good for where we are right now and got the crowd back.” right.” out there with my teammates. I’m 
experience racing in some in the season, but it’s not It was a disappointing finish for After amassing 122 yards in the pretty sure they won this one for 
rough conditions which we really a big deal.” the two-time defending champion first half, Sorin’s potent offense ran me,” said junior playmaker Bobby 
usually don’t row in,” Stone Notre Dame will conclude Ramblers, who wanted to make it only eight plays in the second half Sullivan, who missed the game 
said. “It just makes it a little the fall season on Sunday, to Notre Dame Stadium for a third for a mere 25 total yards. Both of with shoulder, elbow and toe 
tougher. We adjusted to the facing the Hoosiers again, straight year. their second-half possessions injuries. “We’ll take the week off 
conditions and some pieces along with Big Ten foes “I don’t feel as though we came ended in punts. and hope to enter the Stadium 
worked and some didn’t.” Michigan State and Ohio out at our best,” Siegfried senior For Alumni (4-2), however, the well-rested, healthy, and ready to 
As a long winter off-season State. The scrimmage, hosted captain Michael McDonnell said. “I second half was much better than have a good time.” 
separates the two seasons, by the Buckeyes in Columbus, wish things were different, but the first. Starting from their own 
Stone said it is important to Ohio, begins at noon. there’s nothing we can do about it 28-yard line, the Dawgs ran the Contact Matthew DeFranks at 
carry those lessons into the now.” ball 12 times for 72 yards, high-mdefranks@nd.edu and Sam 
later part of their competitive Contact Cory Bernard at Despite not reaching its ultimate lighted by runs of 15 and 31 yards Gans at sgans@nd.edu 
year. cbernard@nd.edu 


page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Tuesday, November 9, 2010 
to know Howard football will Notre Dame for the way they said. “It’s a shame that we pretty well today,” Pasquerilla 
be alive and well after Kayla played today,” Pasquerilla were one flag pull away from a West freshman linebacker Tori 
and I graduate.” West coach Ryan Hawley said. totally different game but Creighton said. “For the most continued from page 16 Howard’s next drive was “It’s almost unbelievable.” that’s the way things work part we held them several 
capped by another long touch-The No. 2 Purple Weasels’ sometimes.” times right by the end zone Howard defense forced the down for Gassner, which (6-0) defense showcased a The McGlinn offense never and goal line.” Phoxes into a three-and-out. pushed the tally to 25-0. bend-but-don’t-break effort, got going in the second half, Creighton intercepted the Gassner returned the punt to “We were able to attack the giving up 173 total yards but stymied by Pasquerilla West ball in the first half, coming the Phoxes’ 14-yard line, and holes in their zones all day,” coming up with two key goal sophomore defensive tackle right after a long run by the Bishop scrambled in two plays Gassner said. “We used a lot of line stands against a versatile Meghan Schmitt, who recorded Whirlwinds. later for the score. Bishop fin-different routes, and we were Shamrocks offense. five sacks in the game. The “It’s just reading the defense. ished the day with 61 yards on able to keep our offense “[McGlinn] came out with an Shamrocks had one last We were putting pressure on the ground. fresh.” unusual game plan that we chance with one minute left in the quarterback, so she was 
“Kayla can throw it perfectly Pangborn’s final two drives couldn’t defend behind the line the game after forcing the trying to get rid of the ball,” to us, every time,” Gassner ended in interceptions, one of scrimmage,” Pasquerilla Purple Weasels to punt, but a Creighton said. “Basically, I said. “That opens up the long returned for a touchdown. West senior captain Libby 38-yard desperation pass left knew she was looking to throw runs, and then we’re really With the final whistle, the Koerbel said. “But we stepped them fifteen yards short of the the ball, and [I] was there for able to mix up our offense.” Phoxes’ playoff run came to an up when we needed to and end zone, sending the the pass.” 
The teams then traded a end. Although their season played an overall great game.” Pasquerilla West sideline into Purple Weasels freshman series of punts, with Pangborn ended one game too soon, Tate The No. 6 Shamrocks (3-3) jubilation. quarterback Elizabeth Arevalo still unable to put a drive said she was still pleased with relied heavily upon sophomore “We wanted a rematch [of had a few key rushes, but the together. Pangborn senior her squad. receiver/safety Emily Golden, last year’s championship game Whirlwinds stopped quarterback Gabby Tate said “I’m really proud of us,” Tate who accounted for 137 of the against Howard] to happen,” Pasquerilla West’s offense that Howard’s ability to shut said. “We we’re hoping to pull 173 total yards and also inter-Pasquerilla West defensive every time they crossed mid-down her team’s offense it out today, but Howard cepted two passes. Golden’s coordinator Tim Bossidy said. field. stemmed from the meeting played phenomenal.” efforts were not enough for the “Howard has good athletes but “We tried to take advantage between the two teams in the The Ducks now turn their upset win over the Purple I know for a fact that we have of their holes, and we got regular season. eyes to Notre Dame Stadium, Weasels, however. the better team.” through sometimes but they 
“Running and scrambling is where they will take on “We came out and surprised Undefeated Howard and just made some good plays,” a big part of my game, but Pasquerilla West in an attempt a lot of teams this year, includ-Pasquerilla West will meet Arevalo said. “I’m really proud Howard was able to totally for a second consecutive ing [Pasquerilla West] today Sunday in a rematch of last of how our team played. It did-take that away this time unbeaten season. and I am really proud of the year’s championship game in n’t go our way, but we worked around,” Tate said. “K-Rob “It’s pretty awesome to go way we played out there,” Notre Dame Stadium to deter-hard out there, and it was a [senior Kaitlin Robinson] was back. We were really nervous McGlinn senior captain Gillian mine the 2010 women’s inter-good season.” spying me all game, and she because Pangborn has played Allsup said. hall champions. Without a starting running played phenomenal.” so well, but we were able to The Shamrock defense held back, freshman quarterback 
The Ducks were able to pull it out today,” Gassner Pasquerilla West to only 44 Welsh Family 7, Pasquerilla Farrell Murphy took over the score once more shortly before said. “Now we have one more yards of offense in the first West 0 rushing game early in the halftime, with Bishop finding game to win.” half while preventing the Welsh Family came ready to Whirlwind’s championship vic-Gassner for a 38-yard score. Purple Weasels from crossing fight as the Whirlwinds shut tory. 
The Phoxes came out to play Pasquerilla West 6, McGlinn the 50-yard line. The only out the Purple Weasels in the “I tried to run it a little bit to in the second half, and were 0 score of the game came on Women’s B-League champi-try and mix it up, so that they able to drive all the way to the In an intense defensive battle Pasquerilla West’s first play of onship. didn’t know what we were Ducks’ 3-yard line. But on a that featured at total of ten the second half, a 45-yard Pasquerilla West’s (4-1-1) doing,” Murphy said. crucial fourth-and-goal, Tate sacks and five interceptions, option run by sophomore wide defense shut out the was sacked by freshman Claire Pasquerilla West reserved its receiver Alice Yerokun that Whirlwinds (5-0-1) until the Contact Jack Heffernon at Robinson, Kaitlin’s younger spot in Notre Dame Stadium was all the Purple Weasels final two minutes of play, but a wheffero@nd.edu, sister, essentially putting the for the second straight year needed for the victory. late reverse to freshman Megan Golden at game on ice. with a win over McGlinn. “It’s a really unfortunate end Stephanie Lobaccaro gave mgolde01@saintmarys.edu and 
“I’m so glad to have Claire “Every single one of these to a wonderful season,” Welsh Family the win. Andrew Gastelum at here,” Kaitlin said. “It’s good girls deserves a scholarship to McGlinn coach Steven de Groot “I think we played defense agastel1@nd.edu 
Pangborn 


Tuesday, November 9, 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 


JEFF KNUREK
PLEASANDVILLE 
JUMBLE

JAMES SOLITTO, CODY ECKERT and JOHN FLATLEY 
MIKE ARGIRION 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
-Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $130 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $75 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Tuesday, November 9, 2010 page 16 
MEN’S INTERHALL 

Dillon, Sorin advance to ‘ship 
Top two seeds survive, 

move on to Stadium  
By SAM GANS and  
MATTHEW DeFRANKS  
Sports Writers  
There will be a new champion  
this year, as No. 1 Dillon took  
down the defending champion No.  
5 Siegfried 12-7 in Sunday’s semi­ 
finals with strong performances  
from all three areas of the game.  
Sophomore running back Terry  
Howard took a run between the  
tackles for a 43-yard touchdown  
to put Dillon (6-0) on top of  
Siegfried (4-2) by the final margin  
with four minutes remaining.  
“Our offensive line moved  
everybody,” Dillon senior captain  
Jordan Smith said. “He didn’t get  
touched on an iso play, which is  
incredible.”  
It was just one run of many on a  
fantastic day for Howard, who  
racked up 122 yards on 15 car­ 
ries.  
“I felt like I played a good  
game,” Howard said. “Our line see DILLON/page 13  MACKENZIE SAIN/The Observer Dillon wide reciever Will Salvi jumps for a pass between two Siegfried defenders. The Big Red took down the defending champion Ramblers 12-7 Sunday.  

WOMEN’S ROWING 

ND learns from meet at Indiana 
By CORY BERNARD 
Sports Writer 

Even though Sunday’s race against Indiana in Indianapolis was only a scrim­mage, Irish coach Martin Stone said he thought it would go a long way in helping his team. 
Stone stressed this week­end’s importance as an oppor­tunity to get everyone on the roster involved in more spring-season structured races. 
“All our boats did well and gained some invaluable expe­rience racing side-by-side with other boats,” he said. “We did well, I was pleased. It was good for them to experience racing next to another boat and hearing the coxswain.” 
Besides the added challenge of racing side-by-side, a setup 
see STONE/page 13 

MEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING 
Despite loss, Sullivan sees progress in meet against Purdue 
By MAIJA GUSTIN and JOSPEH WIRTH  the season. J u n i o r B o i l e r m a k e r a n d U .S. O lym p ian di v er D avi d  board. Although the Irish did not come out on the winning end,  points. “I started the day off s l o w e r t h a n I w o u l d  a bit h a v e  breaststroke leg of the race. He clocked in at 3:59.78. “I wanted to get under that  
B o u d i a  e e t  h i s  o w n  R o l f s  Sullivan said he saw plenty of  liked with the 200 free, but  four-minute mark, and  was  
T h e I r i s h f e l l  t o  i n -s t a te  A q u a t i c  C e n t e r  r e c o r d  i n  g o o d t h i n g s t h a t t h e  t e a m  felt better  as  the meet went  able to  do that  so  that  was  
rival Purdue Saturday, 173­1 2 7 , f o r t h e i r s e c o n d l o s s a g a i n s t a t e a m f r o m t h e highly competitive Big Ten C o n f e r e n c e t h i s s e a s o n .  both the 1-and 3-meter div-i n g e v e n t s w h i l e l e a d i n g P u r d u e t o v i c t o r y. H e h a d previously set the records in t h e B o i l e r m a k e r s ’ m e e t  c a n b u i l d u p o n f o r f u t u r e meets. Sullivan picked up a win in the 400-yard individual med­ley and second place in the  on,” Sullivan said. “I was extremely happy with my 400 IM race, because it was the fastest I’ve ever been in a dual meet for that event.”  e x c i t i n g f o r m e , ” S u l l i v a n s a i d . “ I w o u l d s a y i t w a s probably my best [race of the year]. The fact that I have b e e n i m p r o v i n g w i t h e a c h  
Despite the loss, senior cap­tain Mike Sullivan saw posi­tives from his performance and the team’s performance to carry through the rest of  against the Irish in 2008. On S atu rda y, B ou d i a t a l lie d a 473.47 total off the 3-meter b o a r d a n d p o s t e d 3 9 4 . 5 p o i n t s f r o m t h e 1 -m e t e r  2 0 0 b a c k s t r o k e a g a i n s t Purdue. Though the Irish (2­2) fell to the Boilermakers, Sul liv an earned big p o ints towards the Irish’s 127 total  Sullivan maintained a lead m e e t i s g r e a t t o s e e , a n d throughout the entire 400-a l w a y s m a k e s s w i m m i n g yard race and was a full two more fun.” b o d y l e n g t h s a h e a d o f t h e competition g oin g into t h e see SULLIVAN/page 12  

WOMEN’S INTERHALL 

Howard,PWearntitlerematch 
By MEGAN GOLDEN, JACK 
HEFFERON and ANDREW 
GASTELUM 
Sports Writers 
Howard showed its domi­nance from start to finish Sunday, and is going to the Stadium after a 31-0 win over Pangborn in the semifinals. 
The Ducks (6-0) started the game on offense, and marched down the field behind the arm of senior quarterback and captain Kayla Bishop. Bishop completed all four of her pass­es on the drive, the last find­ing junior wide receiver Jenny Gassner for a 15-yard touch­down that set the tone for the day. 
Pangborn (4-2) then took possession, but a stifling 
see PANGBORN/page 14 


WOMEN’S SWIMMING & DIVING 
Boliermakers edge out Irish in close meet 
By KATHERINE MACK 
Sports Writer 

The visiting Boilermakers barely squeaked out a win Saturday when one event decided their 155-145 victo­ry over the Irish at Notre Dame’s Rolfs Aquatic Center. 
The meet came down to the 200-meter medley relay, which would have resulted in a tie had the Irish won. The Boilermakers’ strong start in the race was too much for the Irish to over­come, however, and Notre Dame’s 1:33.37 time came just behind Purdue’s 1:33.04 finish. 
“We have been in this situ­ation too many times over the past few years and have ended up on the losing side of things so we really want­ed to close the meet with the win,” Irish senior Kellyn Kuhlke said. “Everyone was excited, ready to go, and wanted to get it done. We fought throughout the meet to avoid the situation, so we were disappointed we found ourselves in that situation again.” 
Seniors Katie Casey and Samantha Maxwell led the Irish with two individual wins each. Casey took gold in 100-and 200-meter but-
see KUHKLE/page 12 





