the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


‘I love being around students’ 
Fr. Tom Doyle begins role as Vice President for Student Affairs 

By SARAH MERVOSH 
News Editor 
Fr. Tom Doyle’s first days as vice president for Student Affairs since students returned to school have been jam-packed, and that’s just the way he likes them. 
From 8 a.m. to after dinner­time, he’s in back-to-back meetings. He’s addressing an email about a fire drill occur­ring during the middle of mass. He’s going over the schedule for events for the Purdue weekend. 
But after the workday is over, that’s when his real work begins. 
After hours during the past week, Doyle rode the mechani­cal bull during Irish Shenanigans, donning full priest vestments. He jousted against the senior class presi­dent and won. He attended Activities Night. 
“Going to student activities night was the highlight of my day,” Doyle said. “I love being around students.” 
Interacting with students will 
see DOYLE/page 3 




Payments go green on IrishPay 
By KRISTIN DURBIN 
News Writer 
With the implementation of the new online student account system, IrishPay, the Office of Student Financial Services will save nearly 400,000 sheets of paper each year and parents and stu­dents are able to make pay­ments online. 
“Sustainability was definite­ly a driving force behind the transition to the online sys­tem,” said Michael Riemke, associate director of Student Financial Services. 
Compared to the previous paper-based student account payment system, the IrishPay system will save 398,253 total sheets of paper — the equiva­lent of 12,639 pounds of car­bon dioxide and 47,741 gal­lons of wastewater each year, based on the Environmental Defense Fund’s paper calcula­tor. 
In addition to making the student account system more sustainable, the Office responded to several requests 
see IRISHPAY/page 4 
STUDENT SENATE 



Senators brainstorm community relations 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
Student body president Catherine Soler and vice president Andrew Bell asked the Student Senate for ideas on how to better relations between Notre Dame and the South Bend community and for feedback on the beND campaign. 
The beND campaign is designed to “unify all our University relations and off-campus efforts,” Soler said. 
The campaign will focus on campus safety, good neighbor relations and community engagement, Soler said. 
“At the forefront of our community relations and our efforts with law enforcement, we are up front about the fact that this is in no way an attempt to make underage drinking legal,” Soler said. “As student leaders, we try to improve things that are going to be productive in the long run.” 
“People want specifics about what their rights are when they are dealing with police,” Breen-Phillips sena­tor Erin Burke said. “They want to know what the truth is.” 
Siegfried senator Kevin McDermott suggested voter registration efforts on campus through the Center for Social Concerns should branch out to off campus students to pro­mote responsible citizenship. 
“I did read the Good Neighbor Guide recently and thought it was really well put together,” Carroll Hall sena­tor John Sanders said. “But the alcohol section that seems to be so important right now was just a few paragraphs so maybe it needs an adden ­dum.” 
More prominent informa­tion about Transpo will also 
see SENATE/page 4 



Olympic athletes give back 
By TESS CIVANTOS 
News Writer 
Three gold medalists, two from the U.S. Olympics team and one from the Paralympics team, encouraged Notre Dame students at a panel on Wednesday to fight for their dreams – and to give the fruits of their success back to their communities. 
Sponsored by accounting firm Deloitte, the panel featured speakers Cullen Jones, winner of a 2008 gold medal in swim­ming; April Holmes, the world’s fastest female amputee; and Apolo Ohno, the most decorated American Winter Olympic ath­lete of all time. 
Notre Dame was the first stop on a national tour that the ath­letes are taking with Deloitte. 
Deloitte is the Official Professional Services Sponsor of the United States Olympic Committee. The sponsorship is a part of Deloitte’s $50 million/3­year pro bono project to put the skills of its people to work for nonprofits. 
Jim Jaeger, a 1983 Notre Dame alumnus and Deloitte Managing Partner of Talent, 


TOM YOUNG/The Observer 

From left, Olympic athletes Cullen Jones, April Holmes and Apolo Ohno discussed community contributions. 
introduced the three Olympians. “I always had to work very 
“Deloitte is focused on excel-hard at swimming. I was never lence and service to clients and a child prodigy [cough] Michael community,” Jaeger said. “That Phelps,” Jones said to audience combined with the Olympics is a laughter. great fit.” Jones’s mother enrolled him in 
Jones spoke first, giving the swim lessons after he narrowly audience a brief description of his background in swimming. see ATHLETES/page 4 
page 2 The Observer . PAGE 2 Thursday, September 2, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT  S THE BEST PLACE ON CAMPUS?

THE OBSERVER 







P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 

ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 

Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 


SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnewseditor@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 djacobs1@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 


observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Sarah Mervosh Sports Megan Doyle Eric Prister Emily Schrank Chris Allen 
Graphics Scene 
Lisa Hoeynsk Alex Kilpatrick 
Photo Viewpoint 
Tom La Ren Brauweiler 
OFFBEAT 

Man falls out of car as vehicle continues moving 
DARIEN, Conn. — Connecticut State Police say a man fell out of his car onto Interstate 95 and watched his vehicle drive on for about two-tenths of a mile before it crashed into a pole. Troopers said they’re not sure why 51­year-old Robert Craig of Killingworth fell out of his 2006 Dodge Charger late Tuesday morning in Darien near Exit 10. Police said Craig was treated for minor injuries at Stamford Hospital. 
State police said Craig fell onto the highway but wasn’t struck by any vehi­cles. They say other motorists stopped to help 
Jeff Schroeder  Chris Brenzel  Leon Zhou  Paolo Garcia  Tim Durso  
junior  freshman  junior  junior  junior  
Keenan  Keenan  Stanford  off campus  Keenan  

“Keenan ... Tha “The football “My bed.” “Washington “Saint Mary’s.” Nast.” stadium.” Hall during Asion Allure.” 


Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

him and get him to safety. 
Troopers said the car continued down the high­way before striking a light pole and metal guardrail on the right shoulder. 
Men accidentally toss bags of pot into warden’s truck 
RED BLUFF, Calif. — California wildlife officials say two men are in cus­tody after a group of mar­ijuana growers started to toss bags full of pot into a pickup truck belonging to game wardens they mis­took for their suppliers. State Department of Fish and Game spokesman Pat Foy says two wardens in Tehama County were looking for deer poachers Monday night in the Shasta-Trinity National Forest when they heard footsteps behind them. 
They turned and saw five men hauling large military-style duffel bags and sleeping bags. Foy said the men approached the wardens’ truck as if to toss the bags in the bed. 
The wardens began shouting commands at the group and managed to handcuff two, one of whom was carrying a shotgun. Three others escaped into the forest. 
The wardens recovered 127 pounds of processed marijuana. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The seminar“Challenges and Innovation in Civil and Environmental Engineering — Haiti Earthquake: Lessons Learned and Hope for the Future” will be held today at 
3:30 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall room 138. Notre Dame profes­sors Tracy Kijewski-Correa and Alexandros Taflanidis will share experiences from their recent trips to Haiti. 
Kirk Cordill, managing direc­tor and CEO of BMW Group Financial Services China, will speak today at 4 p.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. The lecture is a part of the Boardroom Insights Executive Speaker Series. 
Tom McCusker, former exec­utive vice president and gener­al counsel of infoGroup, will lecture Friday at 10:40 a.m. in the Jordan Auditorium of the Mendoza College of Business. The lecture is a part of the Boardroom Insights Executive Speaker Series. 
The Notre Dame women’s soccer team will play Santa Clara Friday at 7:30 p.m. at Alumni Stadium. The game is a part of the Inn at St. Mary’s Classic held at Notre Dame this weekend. 
Anthropology professor Susan Blum will lecture Saturday at 12 p.m. in the Annenberg Auditorium of the Snite Museum. The lecture is titled “Plagiarism and College Culture” and is part of the College of Arts and Letters’ Saturday Scholar Series. The event is free and open to the public. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW 
HIGH LOW HIGH LOW HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight FRIDAY Saturday sunday monday 
CORRECTIONS 

A photo on the front page depicting Activities Night mispelled the name of James Ward. It also incorrect­ly said he is a member of the Class of 2013 Council. He is a member of the Class of 2012 Council. The 



82 74 HIGH 7366 7379 
Observer regrets these errors. 


70 65 LOW 5454 5964 






Thursday, September 2, 2010 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS page 3 

can best serve the student body. Affairs. of the student body and the who are different than us.” 
“How do we promote a virtu-“The position was eliminated Church — from traditional Doyle also considers the cul­ous way of life? How do we in anticipation of a restructur-Catholics to openly gay stu-ture of the University’s 29 resi­continued from page 1 help people to have fun? How ing that I want to do,” he said. dents. dence halls as particularly 
do we help them to play? How In his position “It is a big important. help him accomplish one of his do we help them to laugh?” he for Student Church. How do “People don’t live in less than primary goals for his first year said. “How do we encourage Affairs, Kirk we all sort of 100 square feet because they 


Doyle 
“People don’t live in 

as vice president for Student them to make mistakes in life? oversaw the belong as one can’t find a better value some-
less than 100 square

Affairs. We can’t learn if we don’t make Notre Dame Church togeth-where else,” he said. “The cul-
Doyle aims to mistakes.” Security Police feet because they er?” ture of these buildings is what answer two Doyle also (NDSP) and the He hopes to makes people come back. 
can’t fnd a better 

essential ques-plans to make Office of work to attract “We need to work hard to 
“My question is, who value somewhere
tions: Who are some structural Residence Life and facilitate all preserve them,” he said. “We the Notre Dame are the students? changes over the and Housing. else. The culture of types of diversi-can’t take them for granted.” students of course of the B r i a n these buildings is ty, including eco-And as a new resident of 
That’s the frst 
today and how semester, the Coughlin, assis-nomic, cultural Pasquerilla East Hall, Doyle is 
question. Then you what makes people
can his depart-first of which tant vice presi-and geographi-not taking his new home for ment support start to build occurred over dent for Student come back.” cal diversity, as granted. them in becom-programs and the summer Affairs, has tem-well as diversity “I love living in a dormitory,” ing the best they when the posi-porarily taken of experience. he said. 
structures Fr. Tom Doyle 
can be? tion of associate over as head of “I think there Plus, living in a female dormi-
Student Affairs 

“My question around who the vice president Residence Life is a narrow seg-tory has its perks — the girls 
vice president

is, who are the students are.” for Residence and Housing. ment of the bake him cookies. students? That’s Life was elimi-Ann Firth, asso-American popu-“That’s never happened in a the first ques-nated. ciate vice presi-lation for which guy’s dormitory,” Doyle said 
Fr. Tom Doyle 
tion. Then you Bill Kirk dent for Student Affairs, is Notre Dame is a very attractive with a laugh. start to build Student Affairs served as associ-overseeing NDSP. option,” he said. “But we do programs and vice president ate vice presi-In the coming year, Doyle also grow through deep and mean-Contact Sarah Mervosh at s t r u c t u r e s dent for aims to recognize the diversity ingful relationships with people smervosh@nd.edu around who the Residence Life students are,” he said. since 2003. 
Doyle said he plans to collect “Bill served the University data about the Notre Dame stu-extremely well for the past two dent body and conduct decades,” Doyle said. “He was a research about its generation to loyal, a thoughtful and a caring find out how Student Affairs administrator for Student 

SMC freshman class adjusts to college life 
Indiana or to Saint Mary’s. 


By MEGAN LONEY 
“The campus is amazing,” 
News Writer 
Spann said. “It’s beautiful. It’s a 
good place to walk barefoot and 

Returning students may be everything’s clean.” adjusting to new professors, a The campus had a similar more demanding course load or impact on other first years. being back on campus, but the “After I took the tour [as a incoming first-year students are prospective student], I was mad dealing with at myself for lik­adjustments to ing it so much,” college life in “It is really Hillary general — some intimidating when Shesterkin said. of which are “After coming 
professors tell us that
going much here, I can’t wait more smoothly the semseter isn’t to go home and than others. going to be easy.” tell everyone how 
One of the much I love it more difficult here.” 
Erin Nanovic 
adjustments can Though they be to their aca-frst year each have their demic life. own unique first 
First-year Erin impression of Nanovic, an intended business Saint Mary’s and are adjusting at and political science major, different rates, the first years describes her course load as one agreed on one thing: they are all with the “hardest, most intense excited for their first Notre Dame classes” she has ever taken, but football game in the student sec-feels more confident after the tion. first week of classes. 
“It is really intimidating when Contact Megan Loney at professors tell us that the semes-mloney01@saintmarys.edu ter isn’t going to be easy, it’s going to be really hard,” Nanovic said. “You have to study harder than you did in high school.” 
Nanovic said she was sur­prised she was assigned home­work on the first day of classes. 
“I’m not used to that,” Nanovic said. “In high school, we didn’t usually get homework for the entire first week.” 
But she said after the first week of classes, she feels more prepared. 
“Now, that I’m used to it, it’s easier to sit down and get it [homework] done.” 
The all-women aspect of life at Saint Mary’s can be an adjust­ment for some, but for others it does not play a large role. 
“I don’t think it’s a big issue,” said Roselyn Spann, an intended Biology major. “I don’t even notice it.” 
Spann, a first year from Los Angeles, was pleasantly sur­prised when she arrived on cam­pus for the first time. It is the first time she had been in 


page 4 The Observer . CAMPUS NEWS Thursday, September 2, 2010 
Emily LeStrange said. 
The offcam ­pus.nd.edu website also presents stu ­dents living both on and off campus with resources about the South Bend c o m m u n i t y, LeStrange said. 
Committ ee chairs in the information about these needs, he said. 

“Our goal for social McCormick said the Social 
concerns this year is 
Concerns

to clarify serivce Committee will opportunities on collaborate with web 
campus for students.” 
design stu ­dents to create Patrick McCormick serve.nd.edu, 
Social Concerns chair a “clearing house” for all possible serv­ice opportuni-

IrishPay 
continued from page 1 
from parents and students to have the ability to pay stu­dent account balances online. 
“There was previously no mechanism available for account balances to be paid online,” Riemke said. “The biggest change is that par­ents now have the ability to see their student’s statements and make immediate pay­ments online with student authorization.” 
In the past, the Federal Right to Privacy Act prohibit­ed parents from seeing their child’s account activity until a paper statement was mailed to them. Now, IrishPay allows students to authorize a parent, guardian, grandparent or other person to view their account activity and make nearly instanta­neous payments online, Riemke said. 

“IrishPay allows both par­ents and students to see real-time account activity as soon as it occurs, so they can immediately make online payments,” he said. 
In addition, parents have the option to print hard copies of the statements if they wish to do so, and stu­dents and parents are not mandated to pay online. 
After official production work on IrishPay began in May, students received both an online and a mailed state­ment as an initial notification certificate to prompt stu­dents to choose courses intended to broaden their worldview. 
“We are also working on a possible lecture series to show the importance of diversity for years after Notre Dame and especially in the workplace,” Githinji said. 
Pangborn senator Tierney Roche said members of her dorm thought security in stu­dent parking lots needed more attention after several girls experienced car break-ins. The University Affairs Committee would investigate this problem further, com­mittee chair Chase Riddle said. 
Soler and Bell encouraged the senate to represent the concerns of students as “the elected voice” of their dorms and continue to bring for­ward campus concerns as the meetings progressed. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
that the system would change shortly, said Charlie Castline, assistant director of Student Accounts. 
The first online account statements regarding fees for the fall semester were dis­tributed in June and July. 
So far, the response to IrishPay has been over ­whelmingly positive from parents, students and staff alike, Riemke said. 
“Parents love being able to see their students’ account activity,” Riemke said. “Overall, the system has been a response to customer feed­back and the positive response we have been receiving.” 

Contact Kristin Durbin at kdurbin@nd.edu 
STUDENT GOVERNMENT ASSOCIATION 


SGA reworks details for co-exchange deal 
Senate 
continued from page 1 
educate students about their options off campus and how to safely travel through South Bend, Off Campus Concerns Committee chair cerns this year is to clarify service opportunities on campus for students,” Social Concerns chair Patrick McCormick said. 

Service opportunities abound for students at Notre Dame but many students have complained they do not know where to find clear 
By ASHLEY CHARNLEY 
Saint Mary’s Editor 

Student Government Association (SGA) discussed reworking the Saint Mary’s co-exchange program, which allowed students from Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s to eat at both schools’ dining halls, at its meeting Wednesday night. 
In response to student con­cerns, student body president Rachael Chesley and student body vice president Laura Smith met with the vice president for Student Affairs to get more answers on the issue. 
“We are really taking in what [the students] are telling us,” Smith said. “We are really try­ing to compose everything everyone has to say. They can always come to us with their concerns and we will always be their voice.” 
In their meetings with Karen Johnson, vice president for Student Affairs, Chesley and Smith discussed alternatives to the co-exchange plan, but Smith said “co-ex’s are not going to go back to what they used to be.” 
As far as budgeting for the tickets, Smith said $25,000 a year came from Saint Mary’s general fund and $25,000 came from Sodexho, Inc., its food provider. 
Although co-exchange tickets are not available to everyone, Smith said they would still be there for students who need them for a class or club on the opposite campus. 
“Students who really have the need weren’t able to get the co-ex because of the limit,” Smith said. “With this in place, the 


Athletes 
continued from page 1 

survived drowning at a local water park — a new hobby that earned him plenty of mockery on the playground. 
“I was from the inner city, and being a kid that wore Speedos on the weekend put a target on my back,” Jones said. 
In spite of the jibes, Jones went on to swim throughout high school and college. When he joined the Olympic team, he thought that the criticism was over — but that was before he went to his first Olympic meet. 
“The French team was talking a lot of smack, saying ‘We’re going to crush these American Olympians,’” Jones said. “Then they stopped the meet because George Bush walked in the room. If that’s not a distraction, I don’t know what is.” 
Despite the French team’s con­fidence, Jones said his years of work and effort paid off — “we beat the French team by one-hundredth of a second.” 
Jones urged Notre Dame stu­dents to work toward their goals in spite of criticism, as he did. 
Holmes said she had a great admiration for Notre Dame and was happy to be able to visit the campus. 
“This is my first time on cam­pus but I feel like I’ve been here before. I can’t tell you how many times I’ve watched Rudy,” she said. “Those folks at Notre Dame really like gold. I like gold too — tickets are being removed for social reasons. Anyone who has a class can bring your class/club schedule and you’ll be covered.” 
Saint Mary’s students have begun petitions and Facebook group pages about the issue. Chesley said students have been calling for a forum for students to express their ideas and opin­ions on the program. 
“Obviously, it is upsetting,” Smith said. “We want there to be discussion, let us know what you think.” 
The day of the forum is still tentative, Chesley said. They are hoping to hold the session next Tuesday or Thursday at 
6:30 p.m., and possibly have Johnson and Barry Bowles, director of dining services, in attendance. Chesley said she would contact the student body as soon as the date was final­ized. 
“There is a way to go about things in a confident, direct way and still be respectful,” Chesley said. 
Chesley also discussed one of SGA’s goals of keeping students in the Student Center until mid­night. During fall break, Chesley said a lot of remodeling will be taking place in the Student Center. Once construction is complete, the Convenience Store will be moving into the café area of the Cyber Café. 
After the move is made, the Student Center and Cyber Café will be open until midnight. 
“We wanted to keep students in the Student Center Lounge, and this is an accomplishment,” Chesley said. 

Contact Ashley Charnley at acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
Senate meeting also reported brief plans for their projects outside of beND during the upcoming year. 
“Our goal for social con-ties on campus. 

Multicultural commissioner Brigitte Githinji said her plans for the year include the creation of a diversity just a different kind of gold. So I’m going to pass my gold medal around for all of you to look at.” 
As the gold medal circulated through the audience, Holmes said she lost her leg in a train accident eight years ago, but today is the world’s fastest run­ner in the Paralympics. 
“I want you to know what a gold medal feels like,” Holmes said. “So you can go and give it back to your communities. I did-n’t win that medal by myself and so I pass it around everywhere I go. Be a gold medal winner; be a beacon of light in your communi­ties.” 
Ohno concluded the panel with his own story of success. Like the Notre Dame business students who attend the nation’s top-ranked business school according to BusinessWeek, Olympic ath­letes are ‘top-one-percenters’ who excel within their communi­ties,” Ohno said. 
“You’re all going to make it, you’re all going to be successful,” Ohno said. “But how are you going to give back to your com­munities?” 
Like Jones and Holmes, Ohno urged his audience to not just pursue success as professionals, but to seek success as neighbors and good human beings. 
“There’s no guarantee that you’ll be the next Warren Buffet, the next billionaire,” Ohno said. “But you can control how much effort you put in and how you impact the person next to you.” 


Contact Tess Civantos at tcivanto@nd.edu 

Thursday, September 2, 2010 The Observer . PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 5 

The Observer 




Viewpoint 
page 6 Thursday, September 2, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Why do we follow sports? 
Why do we follow sports? As you can likely tell from my posi­tion on the Observer staff, I con­sider myself part of a large group of people who follows and cares quite a lot about the happenings of the various sporting events that take place throughout the year. The devo­tion we as sports fans put into following Eric Prister and cheering for our teams 

A ssociate 
must seem 

Sports Editor 
unfathomable for those who care little for the outcomes of seemingly triv­ial athletic competitions. 
And while it is likely that vari­ous people follow sports for var­ious reasons — because it is the greatest reality television ever created, because of the imbed­ded competitive aspect, because they simply find it intriguing, etc. — one often overlooked rea­son for following sports, I believe, is that it allows us the ability to revel in our teams’ accomplishments without the need to be humble. 
Now, I am by no means the most humble person in the world, and my attempt at humil­ity is often quite lacking. I do make the effort, however, to quell my arrogance, and risk being called down for it if my bragging gets out of control. But bragging about the successes of the particular sports teams that I have in some cases arbitrarily chosen to support brings me the ability to be arrogant without the risk of lacking humility. 
Even the athletes responsible for the victories that we brag about are not afforded this luxu­ry. No Saints fan would be criti­cized for bragging throughout the offseason about his team winning the Super Bowl, but if Drew Brees did the same, he would be called arrogant and would be told that he should focus on the upcoming season. 
Being a sports fan gives us an outlet to do something that many people want to do but risk being insulted for it. We aren’t allowed to talk about our 4.0 GPAs or our 1600 SAT scores. We can’t even go on and on about being a member of a state championship football team. 
But if our hometown team wins the World Series, we can spend almost 365 days bragging about how amazing they are. We are at the same time intricately con­nected to the teams we support and also separated enough that bragging about their accom­plishments is not like bragging about our own. We can be cocky without being called down for it. 
Unfortunately for me, the Cubs haven’t won the World Series since 1908, so I have nothing to brag about. But just wait ‘til I do. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Eric Prister at eprister@nd.edu 

Drinking age needs another look 
By now we have all probably heard that relations between Notre Dame and the South Bend community are a little tense at the moment. It seems like wherever you go on campus, someone is talking about how they or someone they know were at an off-campus party that got busted over the weekend. If you’re a regular reader of the Observer, you’ll know that nearly sixty Notre Dame stu-Ryan Williams dents have been arrested by the South Bend Police in the last week and a half. This unusu­ally high number is in addition to the much-publicized arrest of 43 students at an off-campus party over the sum­mer. Many people claim that the police are breaking up more parties than usual, and are arresting under­age drinkers far more frequently, as opposed to merely issuing them cita­tions. As a result, students are increasingly afraid to go off campus on weekends, for fear of running into the South Bend Police. Supporters of the police attest that they are just doing their job and enforcing the law, and that students should do more to discourage underage drinking in order to avoid contentious run-ins with cops. Critics contend that the police are focusing on petty drinking violations at the expense of some of the more dangerous violent crime that plagues South Bend. 
The roots of the current tension between the South Bend Police Department and the Notre Dame stu­dent body can be traced back to a law enacted on July 17, 1984, called the 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
National Minimum Drinking Age Act of 1984. This bill, cosponsored by a bipartisan group of senators (includ­ing both our current Vice-President, Joseph Biden, and Indiana’s senior United States Senator, Richard Lugar), mandated that any state which did not enforce a minimum drinking age of 21 years would be subjected to a ten percent reduction in its annual highway funding from the federal government. Prior to the enactment of this law, each individual state was free to set its own drinking age. In the aftermath of the act’s pas­sage, the state of Indiana took an additional step, banning all consump­tion of alcohol by minors, including in private settings (the federal law only applied to public places). 
There are several problems with the current situation. First of all, what goes on in a private home (so long as it is not harmful to the gener­al population) is neither the business of the South Bend Police Department, nor of the State of Indiana. Allowing these entities to enter personal resi­dences to stop underage drinking is an egregious violation of the funda­mental values of privacy and personal freedom that are so cherished in this country. Additionally, the current ille­gal nature of underage drinking encourages a culture of rebellion that leads to irresponsible and dangerous drinking patterns. Dr. Ruth Engs, a professor of Applied Health Sciences at Indiana University believes that, “Drinking by [people under 21] is seen as an enticing ‘forbidden fruit,’ a ‘badge of rebellion against authori­ty’ and a symbol of ‘adulthood.’” Dr. Engs contends that the drinking age should be lowered in order to teach and encourage responsible drinking habits among college-aged Americans. Indeed, this train of thought has been embraced by a number of university presidents, 135 of whom have formed an organization called the Amethyst Initiative, which seeks to reopen the national debate about the drinking age (and no, John Jenkins is not a member of this group). 

But perhaps the most significant criticism of the current drinking age is that it is a straight up abuse of jus­tice. In this country, 18-year olds are entrusted with the right to vote, can be selected to serve on juries, and can no longer be convicted of crimes as minors. In addition, men who turn 18 become eligible to be drafted into the armed services, should the draft ever be reinstated. That means they can be sent off to fight and die for their country in some far off place like Iraq or Afghanistan, but cannot even buy themselves a beer. We already hold 18-21 year olds to the same legal standards as all other adults in this country. Let’s ensure they receive all the benefits of adult­hood in return, and restore their right to have a drink. 
Ryan Williams is a sophomore finance and economics major. He can be reached at twilli15@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“The only cure for grief is action.” 
George Henry Lewes British philosopher 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“It’s innocence when it charms us, ignorance when it doesn’t.” 
Mignon McLaughlinAmerican author 
The Observer 



Viewpoint 
Thursday, September 2, 2010 page 7 
Striving after nothing 
“Whoever exalts themselves will be humbled. And whoever humbles them­selves will be exalted.” 
Though perhaps we’d all agree that Jesus’ words from last Sunday’s Gospel are quite beautiful 
Fr. Lou DelFra 
and noble, it is not at all obvious how 

Faithpoint 
they apply to a group — like us — of gifted, industrious, ambitious young people, lurking at the threshold of the world and ready to become its next generation of leaders. What does it mean to “not exalt our­selves”? If it means not loading up our lives and our résumés with achieve­ments that will help us serve the world, we are all, perhaps, already out of luck. This is what, at least in part, we came here to do. 
Thomas Jefferson famously took a pair of scissors to the four Gospels, then re­pasted them back together, leaving out all the parts that didn’t fit with his American project. Maybe these words of Jesus about “not exalting” ourselves, and several others like it — “Whoever wishes to be first must be last,” “Whoever wishes to gain life must lose it,” etc, etc — are best scissored from our personal Scriptures until some later time in our lives, when we are not so committed to grabbing life by the fistfuls. 
But who wants to throw away the words of Jesus … besides Thomas Jefferson? Ok, we could come up with a disturbingly lengthy list. But what about us? Is there a way to live fully these years of acquisition and cultivation of knowledge, talents, relationships, achievements, networks … while still somehow acknowledging — indeed, somehow living — these words of Jesus that all true exaltation in life comes through self-emptying? 
This weekend, I preached this Gospel to a group of elementary school children. Having much less to be exalted about than adults, I figured these words of Jesus would pretty much sail over their heads. I held a cup up in the air. “What’s this cup made out of?” I asked them. “Plastic” they yelled back in cho­rus. “Only half-right,” I replied. And they began craning their necks to see what else composed the cup. After a few sec­onds, I hoisted a pitcher of water and began pouring it into the cup, which, unbeknownst to the students, was filled to the brim with more plastic. Thus, to the suddenly shrieking delight of the stu­dents, the water splattered off the top of the cup and all over me. This showman­ship got me a few laughs. It also guaran­teed that a guy pouring water on himself on the altar would be the only thing the students remembered from my homily. But, interestingly, and unexpectedly, I now had the captivated look of every adult in the building. To my surprise, many of them weren’t even blinking, just staring at me, the cup, the spilled water. 
Immediately and intuitively, they under­stood the symbol, and only too well. 
“So,” I asked, “what else is the cup made of?” The older students led the charge: “Space.” “Emptiness.” “The inside nothingness stuff!” said one future nihilist . And the adults — their lives filled with the great calls to parenting, earning, loving, striving, acquiring — all nodded in self-reflective agreement. What we are today, the enumeration of our current traits, gifts, possessions, never seems an adequate summary of who we are. Perhaps that is because, part of who we are … we are not, yet. 
We are vessels, not résumés. Restless seekers, not insatiable graspers. We are mysteries waiting to unfold in the sur­prising joys and sorrows of life, not the predetermined projects of our society’s, or our parents’, or even our own plans for ourselves. So much of us is not yet. 
We have so many gifts, so much we have achieved, with plenty more to come. But if there is no emptiness, no unformed space, no loneliness, no incompleteness, then … where does the water go? Whatever that water may be for you this semester — a challenging course, a mind-changing idea, an unex­pected new friendship, openness to spiri­tual growth — it needs open space in between the ambitions and achieve­ments of this semester. 
It takes a certain attitude, or spirituali­ty, to approach life with a continuous 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Priorities 
Dear Ryan Kreager, 

Thank you. I did not know that underage drinking was a crime. Maybe it’s because I don’t know the definition of word “underage,” or maybe it’s because I’m not sure exactly what people are drinking. Juice? 
This, at least to me, isn’t an issue of whether or not kids drinking alcohol is a crime, nor is it an issue of police addressing all crimes, instead of prioritizing according to seriousness. This is an issue of how college students are treated by the South Bend Police Department. 
Consider this: what is more dangerous to soci­ety? A college student with a beer, or a college student behind the wheel of a car? (Noted, a col­lege student behind the wheel of a car with a beer is most deadly, and just stupid). But here is my point. If I am pulled over by a cop for speed­ing, I might get at worst a $150 fine. But if I am busted at a party for underage drinking, the current trend is to get arrested and booked downtown, with aggressive cops dealing with mostly cooperative students. I can’t defend any person who decides to run, or punch a cop, but it is definitely not fair or just for police to openly say their policy is to not incarcerate cooperative students, and then turn around and arrest any­one involved at a party, as they did this past Monday night. A night, in which collectively, the average BAC of six students arrested was .03. And it is definitely not fair for police to say over their megaphone, as they pulled away from the house, “Thanks for your business tonight.” That was a good one. I’m glad to know these cops have their priorities straight. Business first, safety second. 
Arrests go on record, and it is difficult to move ahead in life with an alcohol-related arrest, as opposed to say, a speeding ticket, on your record. But let’s return to my question: what is in fact more dangerous to society? And therein lies the issue: Cops treat underage alcohol con­sumption with greater severity, and often over­step their consideration in protecting the com­munity, while disproportionately affecting the students involved. 
But hey, good for you, Ryan, good for you. I thank you for your viewpoint. Your words of encouragement will lead to a lot of great change here on campus. I just know it. In the meantime, just go back to your medieval studies, or art his­tory, or MBA, or whatever. You must have aca­demia of the highest order to be working on. 
Josh Bell 
senior 
off campus 
Sep. 1 


Not above the law 
To Joe Deter, and others scrambling for a poor excuse for underage drinking, 
I can’t be entirely sure about you, but I like to think that I, along with my wonderful Notre Dame classmates were raised to be mature adults. This would include having integrity and not using other poor behavior as an excuse for your own poor behavior. 
I am throughly embarrassed for the Notre Dame community that I know and love. Why is it that some here feel so entitled that they see themselves above the law? Just because South Bend has other crime doesn’t mean that some laws stop being applicable. Also, when one con­siders the fairly long lifespan of Americans, there is plenty of time to drink when you’re of legal age. 
As part of the Notre Dame family, the actions of students who choose to be irresponsible and drink underage reflect poorly on me. Though, perhaps I am one of the few who doesn’t need to drink at college — the exhilaration of even being a student here is enough of a buzz for me. 
Melissa Jordan 
sophomore Ryan Hall Sep. 1 

acknowledgment that we are not all put together yet. It is often called humility. This humility is not necessarily exclusive of worthy ambition and achievement. Plenty of saints had hefty résumés. But they also had humility — a deep-ingrained, and deeply accepted, self-knowledge of their incompleteness, their sinfulness, their utter need for God. It kept them thirsting. It kept them rest­less. Perhaps most importantly, it kept them hungering for God. They refused to identify the sum total of themselves with their accomplishments and possessions. Most saints’ first line of self-description would probably be, “A sinner in need of God’s mercy” or “A deeply flawed human being struggling to love.” This even while serving the world in heroic dimensions. 
They understand the secret of humility. Perhaps even more than what we are, we are what we are not yet. The empty space is the room where God works. So, amid all our strivings after greatness this semester, Jesus’ words are more timely than ever: “It is the humble who will be exalted.” 
This week’s column is written by Fr. Lou DelFra, CSC, Director of Bible Studies and ACE chaplain. He can be reached at delfra.2@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 



True hypocrisy 
To Ryan Kreager, and anyone else who agrees with him, 
You are correct — a lot of time and effort has been spent complaining about the current policies and recent actions of the South Bend and Excise police forces. And in reply to your smug remark, yes, we have not forgotten that underage drink­ing is illegal. However, I ask that you and anyone else in the future who plans on making similar remarks about the way the police are handling these situations please refrain from doing so if you do not understand the gravity of the situation. 
First off, the fact that anyone could prioritize stopping under­age drinking just as they do armed robbery is astonishing to me. When it comes to preventing shootings, muggings and armed robberies vs. stopping 18, 19 and 20 year olds from drinking, we as a society absolutely want the police to start “playing judge” by choosing to try and prevent the more seri­ous crimes. If you disagree, please go explain your thoughts to the families of those who have been shot and/or robbed. 
Also, regardless of their policies, the brutality and dishonesty of the police officers in many of these “busts” is completely unacceptable and represents a problem much more serious than underage drinking ever could. Arresting students and bringing them to the station is only the tip of the iceberg. Knowing people who have had encounters with the police as well as experiencing it firsthand myself, there are countless examples of these “law enforcers” breaking that which they are paid to uphold. Physical violence, the use of tasers and taunt­ing directed at the students as well as illegal entries and fraud­ulent police reports are problems many of us here know too well. 
So what I ask is if there are any more complaints about how students are reacting to the recent arrests, please keep them to yourself unless you fully understand the magnitude of the cur­rent situation. Underage drinking is illegal, but the police force continually breaking the law is truly what you were referring to as “hypocrisy of the highest order.” 
Robert Schaus 
junior 
O’Neill Hall 
Sep. 1 


The Observer 




Scene
page 8 Thursday, September 2, 2010 

By LAUREN HENDERSON 
Scene Writer 
September doesn’t just mean the start of classes and football games 
— it’s also a month packed with exhibition openings and special events around campus, South Bend and Chicago. While most of your weekends this month may be full of tailgating and football games, be sure to check out some of these highlights around campus: 
Snite Museum 
This fall, Notre Dame’s Snite Museum of Art is featuring three new special exhibitions. Gina Costa, the Marketing and Public Relations Specialist at the Snite, describes them for Scene: 
Recent Acquisitions from the Dr. William McGraw ’65 Photography Collection (now through Nov. 14) 
This exhibition consists of 49 contemporary photographs given by Dr. William McGraw of Indianapolis, a 1965 graduate of Notre Dame. The donation includes examples by some of the most important artists of the recent period such as Sally Mann, Shelby Lee Adams and Robert and Shana Parke Harrison. The styles of these artists range from straight docu­mentation to surrealism. 
In addition to being an accom­plished diagnostic radiologist in Indianapolis, McGraw is also a col­lector of contemporary photo­graphs. He began collecting around 1993 with the acquisition of three prints by Michael Kenna. 
McGraw remembers that the first thing that attracted him to photography was the strong sense of composition that many of the images displayed, as well as the effect of light, and of course the subject matter. His first love was black and white, and then he began adding color work. 
The subject matter is broad. Documentary photographer Sebastião Salgado shows us a mas­sive labor project in Brazil; Matt Heron chronicles the civil rights march to Selma, Alabama; and Ernst Haas captures the return of a one-legged soldier from World War II. 
A number of photographs are surreal or fantastic, such as James Fee’s heavily manipulated com­mentaries on contemporary socie­ty, Martina Lopez’s creation of an imaginary landscape populated by images taken from old photo­graphs, and Rocky Schenk’s dream-like study of a fountain at night. 
Parallel Currents: Highlights of the Ricardo Pau-Llosa Collection of Latin American Art (now through Nov. 14) 
This exhibition features contem­porary Latin American art from the collection of Ricardo Pau-Llosa, Cuban-American poet, critic, cura­tor and collector. 
For over three decades, Pau-Llosa has been a seminal figure in elevating the discussion of modern Latin American art on the interna­tional level, from a mapping of how styles originating in Europe or the United States took off in the region, to an appreciation of Latin American contributions to the evo­lution of modern art. 
Pau-Llosa was a senior editor of “Art International” from 1982 to 1994, North American editor for “Southward Art,” and a frequent contributor to “Drawing,” “Sculpture” and other art journals, as well as serving as an advisor to the encyclopedic “Dictionary of Art,” 1996. 
Pau-Llosa has also published six books of poems and has been pub­lished in “American Poetry Review,” “Indiana Review,” “Iowa Review,” “Kenyon Review,” “New England Review,” “Notre Dame Review,” “Partisan Review,” “Southern Review,” “Valparaiso Poetry Review” and in many other literary magazines, and within numerous anthologies. 
Pau-Llosa, who was born in Cuba in 1954 and has lived in the United States since the age of six, often integrates diverse aspects of his heritage and his interest in Latin American art in his English-language poetry. 
Documenting History, Charting Process and Exploring the World: Architecture in Photographs from the Janos Scholz Collection of Nineteenth-Century European Photographs (Sept. 5-Oct. 31) 
Heavily represented in collec­tions of 19th century photographs, architectural photography provides inroads into major themes of the period: industry and technology, exploration and exoticism, docu­mentation and preservation, and history and nationalism. Architecture lent itself to the long exposure times required by the early photographic processes and was used extensively as subject by the first generation of photogra­phers. 
Approaching 10,000 photo­graphs, the Scholz collection includes representative examples of most significant categories of 19th century photography. Although most of the material orig­inates from France and England, the two countries where photogra­phy was invented, the collection includes material from the rest of the world. 
The photographs selected for this exhibition reflect the main cat­egories of architectural photogra­phy practiced during the first decades of the medium from docu­mentation of historic buildings, to exploration, progress, tourism, views of cities, urban renewal and vernacular structures. Driven more by the curiosity of a social historian than by the eye of a con­noisseur, this exhibition reveals the wealth of information captured by 19th-century photographers as they turned their lenses toward architecture. 
The Snite Museum of Art’s hours are Tuesday and Wednesday 10 
a.m. to 4 p.m., Thursday through Saturday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., and Sunday 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. (closed Monday). 
Also, be sure to listen to Ms. Costa on her radio segment “Art Watch” on WSND 88.9 every Monday, Wednesday and Friday. The segment airs at 8:15 a.m. and 
12:15 p.m. on Monday, 12:15 p.m. on Wednesday and 5:15 p.m. on Friday. 

Contact Lauren Henderson at lhender1@nd.edu 




By DECLAN SULLIVAN 
Scene Writer 
Over the past few years, the quality of comedians at the annual “Comedy on the Quad, ” taking place this Saturday, has constantly increased. Two years ago, it was a pre-“Community” Joel McHale; last year, it was Maria Bamford and Judah Friedlander of “30 Rock ” fame. The event has contin­ued it ’s improvement this year, as 2010 boasts perhaps the best line up yet: Michael Ian Black and Mike Birbiglia. 
Michael Ian Black is the more recognizable of the two. He started his career in the early 90’s on the under-appreciated MTV sketch show — yes, MTV used to have content other than reality TV — “The State.” He was also one of the stars of two Comedy Central shows: “Stella ” and “Michael & Michael Have Issues,” and he has contributed to the Adult Swim shows “Tom Goes to the Mayor,” “Tim & Eric,” “Awesome Show” and “Robot Chicken.” 
The gig that he is most well known for, however, is as the sarcastic, snarky commentator on VH1 ’s “Best of…” series. Even if you’ve never knowingly watched the show, if you’ve ever had your TV set to VH1, you’ve seen his face. 
He ’s also been fea ­tured on numerous Sierra Mist TV spots. Black is known for a sarcastic, off-brand style of comedy, and while he is not generally known for his stand up, his performance should not be missed nonetheless. 
Mike Birbiglia, on the other hand, is not as well known among television audiences, but fans of stand-up comedy have known his 
name for a while. narrative, story-driven for-NPR listeners will recog-mat, as opposed to a string nize Birbiglia’s name from of one-liners. 
his numerous It may not be fair contrib u-to call Birbiglia tions to an up -and ­“This comer at this point. He ’s never had the mainstream success of Mitch Hedberg, Jim Gaffigan or Dane Cook — ugh — or the movie and televi ­sion career of Jerry Seinfeld, Adam Sandler 
or 
Will Ferrell, but Birbiglia has never attempted to branch out to that kind 

of 
success. As a stand ­up comedian and a story­teller, he could easily 


American Life,” as his come-beat or hold his own against dy style is usually in a more any of them, even in their primes. 
His album, “My Secret Public Journal Live, ” has been named one of the best comedy albums of the decade by the Onion AV Club, he has had three Comedy Central specials and his off -Broadway show “Sleepwalk With Me ” has gotten rave reviews from publications like Variety and The New Yorker. Whatever you do, do not miss his set: it promises to be amazing. 
“Comedy on the Quad” will take place on Friday at 10 
p.m. Make sure to come early — or just stick around after the Dillon Pep Rally — as the event has grown more and more popular with each passing year. Michael Ian Black is top notch and a famous face, and the chance to see Mike Birbiglia should not be missed, as he is one of the greatest stand-up acts around. “Comedy on the Quad” has become a can’t­miss event, so don’t. 
Contact Declan Sullivan at dsulliv9@nd.edu 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 



Scene
Thursday, September 2, 2010 page 9 
Best of LaFortune LaFortune from 10 p.m. to 12 a.m. 
In this open house of LaFortune’s offerings, you can get a peek at everything from WVFI to student government. Grab up free food before all of the student organizations close up their stores for the semester. You can also enter to win great prizes including Michigan State and Army game tickets, more Domer Dollars, a Playstation 3 or an iPad. Best 
of 
Acousticafé, with perform ­ances from the best student musicians on campus, will also be occurring in the basement 

of 
Legends at 10 p.m. on Thursday. 


Dillon Pep Rally South Quad at 6 p.m. 
A kickoff weekend staple, the Dillon Pep Rally moved to a bigger stage and took over full pep rally duties last year fol ­lowing a one -year hiatus. Be prepared for pointed criticism of Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s life, musical performances by the fine men of Dillon and the entire football team and a spe­cial guest appearance from “Crackhead,” whose entire act composes of smashing plates on his head. You might want to get some Grab ‘n’ Go and camp out on the quad in the afternoon if you want to be able to see much of anything, though. 
Midnight Drummers’ Circle The Dome at 12:01 a.m. 
If you ’re a freshman or just haven ’t made it up to God Quad on Friday nights of game weekends, don ’t miss this (fairly young) Notre Dame tradition . The drum ­line from the Band of the Fighting Irish treks up to the Dome to play 45 minutes (and sometimes longer) of Notre Dame cheers, chants and sometimes a few songs 
on the marimba (a big hit last year was Miley Cyrus ’ “Party in the USA ”). It ’s a jam -packed, high -energy warm -up to Saturday ’s game atmosphere, and it ’s defi ­nitely a lot peppier than a pep rally. 

Men’s and women’s soccer Alumni Stadium Women vs. Texas Tech, 1:30 pmMen vs. California, 7 pm 
Catch the Notre Dame soc ­cer teams in action, with enough time in between for dinner. The women ’s team, annual contenders for the national championship, is 2­0 heading into the matchup with Texas Tech . Their games consistently sell out, so make sure to get there with enough time to catch the student seats. The men ’s team, coming off a 3-0 stretch in pre -season play, will take on California later in the evening. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 


By KAITLYN CONWAY 
Scene Writer 
Sunday afternoon ’s 3 
p.m. showing of the origi ­nal “Planet of the Apes ” kicks off a new series in the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center (DPAC) called “Sci -Fi Through the Ages .” The series was created to complement a seminar taught this semester by Professor Paulette Curtis entitled “An American Key: An Anthropologist Looks at the Genre .” There are three more films being screened as part of this: “Brother From Another Planet,” “Metropolis ” and “Fantastic Planet.” 
“These particular films were chosen because they are not only entertaining and appealing to a wide variety of audiences but they also provide a com ­pelling historical survey 
of how American ideals are considered within this popular genre, ” DPAC marketing manager Kyle Fitzenreiter said. 
These films are also the foundation for sci -fi as we know it — perhaps even for cinema as we know it. the subjugation of and Fantasy Writers of 


“Planet of the Apes ” humans by giant blue America nominated was groundbreaking in aliens. In 1973 it won a “Fantastic Planet ” for a 1968 for its use of pros -special award at the Nebula Award in Best thetics in Dramatic m a k e -u p . Presentation. It was “Metropolis” named one will be shown 
of 
the best on Sept . 19, movies of also at 3 p.m. 1968 by This silent www. film -film is site.org, notable for a n d being a big E m p i r e influence on magazine sci -fi movies listed it as we love today, 

one 
of the such as best 500 “Blade films of all Runner ” and time . This “The Matrix. ” film set the This screen ­stage for ing is espe ­well done cially note ­costuming worthy far before because it is the com -being shown puter -gen -for the first erated time with its 

option 
was original score available. and an addi ­


The next tional 25 film in the minutes of series, footage . The “Fantastic movie, Planet,” released in will show in the Cannes Film Festival and 1927, was made in Browning Cinema Sept . was nominated for the Germany during the 12 at 3 p.m. This 1973 Golden Palm award . In Weimar Republic and is animated film is about 1975, the Science Fiction set in a futuristic dystopia . The special effects and visual designs 
of the movie are especial ­ly impressive. 
The last film in the series, “The Brother from Another Planet, ” is about an alien who takes on the image of a mute African American man and tries to live in Harlem . It shows on Sept . 23, at 
9:30 p.m. The film, recently restored by the UCLA Film and Television Archive, stars Joe Morton and focuses on his adven ­tures as he tries to adapt to life in Manhattan. The film is a commentary on race through the medium 
of science fiction. 
While the screenings are required for Professor Curtis ’s class, this does not mean that the rest of us cannot enjoy the movies . These are all sci -fi classics, and show the progression of how the genre went from silent film to the modern CGI . Old effects used to inspire the same grandeur as the ones we see today. 


Contact Kaitlyn Conway at kconway2@nd.edu 
LISA HOEYNCK | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer . CLASSIFIEDS Thursday, September 2, 2010 
NFL 


Johnson not satisfied with record campaign 
Associated Press 
NASHVILLE, Tenn. — The ink starts at Chris Johnson’s neck, with wings tattooed just above his collarbone, reminding the world that he is the NFL’s most recent member of the very rare club of 2,000-yard rushers. The Tennessee running back also has “Cause IM A Star” perched just above a red star in the mid­dle of his chest. 
Dream big, then run faster than anyone else in the NFL. 
Johnson used that combina­tion to rush his way to NFL Offensive Player of the Year in 2009, becoming only the sixth man in league history to run for at least 2,000 yards. He’s back for his third season with goals set even higher than a year ago: Run right past Eric Dickerson’s NFL rushing record of 2,105 yards all the way to 2,500. 
That would make him the first ever to run for 2,000 yards twice in a career with the added twist of doing it back-to-back. Dickerson didn’t do it. Neither did Barry Sanders, Jamal Lewis, 
O.J. Simpson or Terrell Davis. Johnson calls it his chip on his shoulder. 
“It gives me something to look forward to. People might be like, ‘Oh you run for 2,000 yards so he’s content or whatev­er like that.’ I haven’t broken the record, so I still have some­thing on my shoulder and some­thing to work hard for,” Johnson said. 
Being voted the Offensive Player of the Year? Nice, but MVP is his target again. If he runs for 2,000 yards again, he reasons voters can’t deny rewarding such a historic per­formance. 
“I feel like I’m never satis­fied,” Johnson said. “I’m com­ing back in with the same mind­set that I haven’t done anything yet.” 
Brash statements coming from a guy so soft-spoken that reporters have to push to get microphones close enough to hear him. But Johnson has the tools to back them up. 
A native of Orlando, Fla., he finished second in the 100­meter dash in a state meet to eventual 2008 Olympic bronze medalist Walter Dix. 
Only one college want him to play his preferred position of running back, but in his senior year at East Carolina he led the nation with 227.7 all-purpose yards a game. He posted a 4.24­second time in the 40-yard dash at the NFL combine, believed to be the fastest electronically measured time at the event dat­ing back to 1982. When the draft started, four running backs were taken before the Titans grabbed Johnson at No. 24 overall. 
He’s been nearly unstoppable ever since. 
He ran for 1,228 yards in 2008 and gave a glimpse in the Titans’ second game last season how he planned to live up to his preseason boasts of running for 2,000 yards. He ran for 197 yards on 16 carries against Houston, a game featuring a 69­yard touchdown catch where he lined up wide left with no defender nearby so he waved at Kerry Collins to make sure the quarterback saw him. 
No one’s left him that wide-open since. 
Johnson finished 2009 with 11 straight games of 100-yards rushing and needs only three more to match the NFL record for consecutive 100-yard games set by Barry Sanders in 1997. He set the NFL record for yards from scrimmage with 2,509 yards and became the league’s first player to rush for at least 2,000 yards (2,006) and have 500 yards receiving. He also was the only unanimous pick to the All Pro team. 
Only Dickerson and Edgerrin James had more yards from scrimmage through their first two seasons than Johnson (3,997). 
Johnson immediately started lobbying the Titans to make him the highest paid offensive player in the NFL and stayed away from the team during the off­season. With the NFL’s labor deal in its final year, he didn’t get his wish. 
The Titans did shuffle incen­tives Johnson already had satis­fied but wasn’t due to be paid for until 2012 into this year, adding approximately $1.5 mil­lion to his base salary of $550,000 — enough for Johnson to report to training camp on time. He knows another big sea­son will force the Titans to pay him the more than $30 million in guaranteed money that he really wants. 
Johnson followed the same workout plan that he used to reach 2,000 the first time. He stuck around the Orlando condo he shares with Jaguars receiver Mike Sims-Walker, a friend since grade school. In their free time, they stayed busy adding tattoos and even flew an artist up from Miami. Neither knows how many he has. 
“Just a matter of liking tat­toos and liking art,” Sims-Walker said. “They’re kind of like addictive. Once you get one, you want another and you keep going from there.” 
TENNIS 



McEnroe to open academy 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — John McEnroe wants a hand in reviving American tennis. He wants to do it his way. 
Neither of these statements should come as a surprise to anyone who has followed McEnroe’s career over the last four decades — either on the court or in “retirement,” where he has remained every bit as fiery and unapologetic behind a microphone as he is with a ten­nis racquet in hand. 
The day after the U.S. Open ends, McEnroe’s new journey will begin in full — a journey with the ultimate goal of mak­ing sure the headline that appeared this summer is never seen again: “No American in top 10 for first time since rank­ings began in 1973.” 
On Sept. 13, the John McEnroe Tennis Academy will officially welcome its first class at the revamped, 20-court, $18-million tennis complex on Randall’s Island — a strip of land between Manhattan and Queens that also houses Icahn Stadium, where Usain Bolt set his first world record. 
It’s not particularly easy to get to. Then again, almost any­thing worth doing in New York 
— McEnroe’s hometown and the center of the tennis uni­verse during the U.S. Open — involves some sacrifice. And besides, nothing about Johnny Mac’s journey back into the languishing grass roots of his sport has been simple. 
“Hopefully, I can jolt things and get things going here again,” McEnroe said of his goal to revive tennis in New York and, by extension, in the United States. “Hopefully I can be a regular presence and hopefully Patrick and the USTA will support what I’m doing.” 
“Patrick” would be his youngest brother, the longtime Davis Cup captain who the U.S. Tennis Association hired two years ago to run an elite player development program that gets mixed reviews from tennis insiders. The McEnroes have similar goals, but different ideas of how to get there. 
While Patrick McEnroe and the USTA enjoy the luxury of what his brother calls “unlimit­ed money” — about $15 million a year for the development pro­gram — money that is some­times used to filch players from the for-profit tennis academies, John McEnroe is starting from scratch. He’s hoping to revive the youth tennis scene in New York and prove that, yes, it’s still possible to build champi­ons without sending them away to tennis camp and taking them out of their normal lives. 

For a tennis prodigy, McEnroe enjoyed a relatively normal childhood. He grew up in the suburbs of New York, was schooled at Trinity on the Upper West Side, took tennis lessons at Port Washington Tennis Academy on Long Island under coach Harry Hopman — who never made tennis larger than life — then spent a year at Stanford before going pro full-time. 
Now, he is putting his own time, his own money and bring­ing in the middle McEnroe brother — Mark, the lawyer — to an effort he hopes will pro­duce plenty of college players, a handful of pros and maybe, just maybe, the next American tennis champion. 
“That’s our bet,” Mark McEnroe said. “John thinks it’s realistic that we can find a top­10 player.” 
The odd relationship between John and Patrick has been described, in some parts of the tennis world, as a rift. The brothers, seven years apart, say family is more important than tennis, but are on record as not always seeing eye to eye. 
And indeed, there are differ­ences. 
John thinks it’s possible to become a great tennis player the way he did it back in the day — by making the sport part of a typical American childhood that includes living at home, going to a school nearby, a few soccer games and friends. Patrick believes in more repeti­tion and full-time commitment, the likes of which you see at the many academies-slash­boarding schools in Florida, Texas and California. 
John has a long, well-known history of wanting to team up with the USTA to put his name behind a development pro­gram. Patrick has questions about how long John could stick with the bureaucracy that comes with the USTA. 

“There’s probably some skep­ticism on Patrick’s part, as we all have, is John really going to do this?” Mark McEnroe said. “John wanted to do something like he’s doing here at the USTA and that wasn’t avail­able.” 
What John and Patrick can agree on is the pain they feel when they watch the sport they grew up in, starred in and made careers out of, get rele­gated to page 4 in the sports section on good days and com­pletely out of the American consciousness for much of the time. 
“Alarm bells have been going off for a while, but there’s been enough success that it hasn’t been a cacophony of noises,” John McEnroe says, crediting the Williams sisters — who also didn’t attend tennis academies and are known for taking long breaks from tennis — with the lion’s share of American suc­cess over the past decade. “Clearly, there’s a lot more that needs to be done and there’s a great level of concern.” 
The concern is even greater during weeks like these, when, for instance, Nike holds a pub­licity function featuring its top stars and it trots out Roger Federer, Rafael Nadal and Maria Sharapova — but only one active American, Serena Williams, who is out of this year’s tournament because of an injury. 
It grows when Andy Roddick, who moved back as the only American in the top 10 after his brief drop to No. 12, finds virtually no company around him. Sam Querry is at No. 22. Mardy Fish just moved up 15 spots to get to No. 21. John Isner is at No. 20 after moving up 35 spots from this time last year, but still needs a break­through to be known for more than his famous 70-68 fifth-set win at Wimbledon earlier this year. 

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
REWARD PERSONAL FOR RENT 
UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Loft apartment for rent for 1 person. “Where am I?” ——————————————— Walking distance to ND. Have to “You’re in the hospital.” 
see to appreciate apartment and Don’t go it alone. Notre Dame has location. 1 block off Ivy Rd. $400 “Ta-da!” many resources in place to assist Looking for someone to share per month, 574-340-3895. ———————————————­
$300 Reward for lost JVC you. expenses in my ranch home on the ———————————————­Camcorder. If you or someone you care about south side. Suite in private home for football We’re gonna need a lot of money. 
has been sexually assaulted, we Please call Jenny at weekends. 1 block to ND main ———————————————­Last seen in front seat of U-Haul in can help. HOMES FOR RENT NEAR CAM-574-303-5034 entrance on ND Ave. Includes sep-“Look, I just need something to parking lot south of staging area of PUS! Mmmrentals.com ———————————————-arate entrance, kitchen and bath. read. Pop-pop gets a Grisham?” north quad - visitor lot 2. For more information, visit Notre Apartments for Rent Near Airport on Call 574-243-7777 ———————————————­
Dame’s website: Busline 1 Bdr. $600 and 2 Bdr. “I just wanted to share my If found please call Bryson at 913-$725 All Util. Included Call Mike PopSecret with Buster!” 323-4500 for $300 reward - no 574-250-0191 ———————————————­questions asked. http://csap.nd.edu. Email: mmmrentals@aol.com “Steve Holt!” “Pop..secret?” ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ———————————————-———————————————-———————————————­
Thursday, September 2, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 11 
MLB 



Chapman sizzles in debut 
CINCINNATI — Left-hander Aroldis Chapman made his big leg kick and let one fly. Flashes went off around the ballpark. The crowd let out a collective “ooh” when the ball slammed loudly into Ryan Hanigan’s mitt. 
And that was just his first warmup. 
What came next was almost too fast to follow. 
The Cuban defector made a big-league debut that opened a lot of eyes around the majors — especially on teams thinking they might face the Cincinnati Reds in the playoffs. 
Chapman pitched a perfect inning, twice hitting 102 mph on the radar gun, during an 8­4 victory over the Milwaukee Brewers on Tuesday night. 
“I don’t think it can get any better than this,” closer Francisco Cordero said. 
Not much faster, anyway. As introductions go, this one siz­zled. 
“Aw, that was a wonderful debut,” manager Dusty Baker said. “People expected it, and they got what they heard about and read about.” 
They’ll be talking about this one for some time. 
The 22-year-old Cuban defected 13 months ago, deciding to take his triple-digit pitch to the majors. He signed a six-year, $30.25 million deal with Cincinnati in January, then set out to try to win a spot in the rotation during spring training. 
He wasn’t ready. Chapman started the season at Triple-A Louisville and struggled with his control. Last month, the Reds were in a pennant race and decided to see if Chapman could become something spe­cial out of the bullpen. 
Everyone can see the answer. 
“He’s special,” Baker said. 
His fastball was an urban legend even before he arrived. Chapman was clocked at 101 mph during spring training by major league scouts. When he moved into the bullpen, he was able to throw even hard­er. The radar gun in Louisville clocked one of his pitches at 105 mph. 
Could he light it up in the big leagues? 
The first time out, he sure did. 
Chapman got a standing ova­tion from the crowd of 19,218 when he jogged out of the bullpen to pitch the top of the eighth with the Reds leading 8-3. Fans let out a collective “ooh” after each warmup throw. There was a buzz in the small crowd — contrary to one fans’ sign, there’s no Chapmania yet. 
“Of course I was nervous,” he said, through a translator. 
His first pitch to Jonathan Lucroy registered 98 mph. The third one hit 102 mph, draw­ing a loud cheer. He fanned Lucroy on a nasty 86 mph slid­er. 
The next two batters — Craig Counsell and pinch-hit­ter Carlos Gomez — went down on weak grounders. Chapman threw only eight pitches, half of them register­ing 100 mph or better. Two were clocked at 102. 
He walked off the field to another standing ovation. 
Those who saw him do it at Louisville weren’t at all sur­prised. 
“There’s not a whole lot of guys like him, if any,” said Sam LeCure (2-4), who got the victory with two innings in relief before Chapman took the mound. 
After a moment’s pause, LeCure said, “There’s none.” 
When he was at Louisville, his teammates marveled at his fastball. They’d sneak a look at the board in right-center field that showed the pitch’s speed. 
“Every time he lets one go, everybody turns around or peeks,” second baseman Chris Valaika said. “You don’t want to get caught looking, but you see 104 — that’s something you’ve never seen before.” 
Now, big-league hitters know what they’re up against. 
“I was just trying to hit the ball hard,” Lucroy said. “He is very deceptive. He kind of hides the ball. It’s tough.” 
The Reds brought him up before Sept. 1 to make sure he would be eligible for postsea­son play. Cincinnati has pulled away in the NL Central, open­ing a seven-game lead over St. Louis by going 19-8 in August, the best record in the majors during the month. 


GOLF 

Youth golfer reports own disqualification 

Associated Press 

MILWAUKEE — Zach Nash was shocked when he dis­covered he had one too many golf clubs in his bag a couple hours after winning a junior Wisconsin PGA tour­nament. 
But rules are rules, and the 14-year-old from south­ern Wisconsin made a deci­sion that might surprise some people: He disqualified himself and surrendered his medal. 
“I knew right away I couldn’t live with myself if I kept this medal, so it was pretty instantaneous,” Nash said during a phone inter­view from his home in Waterford on Wednesday, his first day of high school. 
Nash shot a 77 to win the boys 13-14 age division at the Milwaukee County Parks Tour Invitational, which is run by the Wisconsin PGA Section, on Aug. 11. He beat 31 other players in his divi­sion, all while his grandpar­ents from Iowa were watch­ing. 
After his victory, Nash went to the Rivermoor Golf Club — where he played 36 holes nearly every day this summer — to practice more and talk to one of his men­tors, Chris Wood, the club’s head golf professional. 
“I was showing everybody my medal and then Chris and I went and we were having a soda and he said ‘Hey, whose club is this? And I said ‘my friend’s.’ And he said ‘This makes 15.’ I was in shock after that,” Nash said. 
The penalty for breaking the rule, called rule 4-4, is two strokes for each hole played with more than 14 clubs, with a maximum of four penalty strokes. But since he didn’t notice his extra club during the tour­nament, a penalty wasn’t added. That meant he signed an incorrect score­card, which he knew dis­qualified him. 
Nash said golf prides itself on honesty and players call­ing penalties on themselves. While the decision was clear, he said he couldn’t help but cry a bit in front of Wood. Wood had to call Nash’s father, Bob, to pick him up. 
Later that night, Nash called Andy Landenberger, junior tour director for the WPGA, to explain what hap­pened. He sent back the medal, which Landenberger said he would present to runner-up Dane Reinhardt, who shot an 80. 
Nash, who has been golf­ing for about three years, said a friend spent the night at his house before the tour­nament and left a 5-wood club, and he put it in his bag not realizing it made a total of 15. 
Wood said Nash made him and the club proud. 
“I think most people — not just kids — would have tried to justify in their mind hav­ing the extra clubs in their bag and not using them as an excuse to not call and disqualify themselves,” Wood said. 
Nash’s father said his son is a regular teenager — he talks back to his parents, picks on his brothers — and was a bit surprised the teenager didn’t consider, just for a moment, keeping the mistake to himself. But he said he did the right thing and he and his wife were proud. 
“When I first heard it, when he told me the whole story, I thought, ‘Wow, you are doing the right thing,’“ Bob Nash said. “You have to keep doing what’s right. But in the back of my mind, I’m thinking ‘If you didn’t say anything the standing wouldn’t change.’“ 
The boy’s honest deed was first reported by the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. 
Nash started his freshman year Wednesday at Waterford Union High School and plans to go out for the golf team. 


page 12 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 2, 2010 
MLB 



Konerko hits winning homer in Manny’s debut 
Pence leads Astros past Cardinals to complete sweep; Fukudome’s three hits lead Cubs past McDonald, Pirates 
Ozzie Guillen is doing all he can to hold the Cardinals to one hit 
Associated Press 

to manage expectations about over the final four innings. 
CLEVELAND — For the second what Ramirez can do for his team Schumaker doubled to start the straight game, Manny Ramirez in the season’s final month as game but was thrown out on the watched from a few feet away as they chase the first-place bases when Miles hit a come-one of his new teammates hit a Minnesota Twins. backer to Figueroa. Pujols, hitless game-winning homer. Guillen knows it takes more in his last 13 at-bats, fouled out 
Claimed off waivers by Chicago than one Manny to win. before Holliday’s homer. for his renowned power, Ramirez “A lot of people expect Manny The Cardinals have scored two provided only a bloop a single in to come in here and be the sav-runs in their last 36 innings. The his debut but he was on deck ior,” Guillen said. “We have 20 or consecutive shutouts the previous when Paul Konerko hit a three-30 guys out there pulling the two nights marked the first time run homer in the eighth inning to same rope. Manny does not have in 94 years that St. Louis had give the White Sox a 6-4 win and to carry this ballcub. I hope he been blanked with three hits or three-game sweep of the does. Everybody does. He’s going fewer in back-to-back games. Cleveland Indians on Wednesday. to make our lineup better. He’ll Suppan made his first start 
Ramirez’s debut with the White make people better around him. since Aug. 1, when he pitched 5 Sox was anything but a hit for Our hope is to keep him healthy, 1-3 scoreless innings against the seven innings. Chicago trailed 4-1 play him as much as we can, and Phillies. He went five innings and going into the eighth, but the just have some fun.” allowed four runs, three hits and White Sox rallied after the Guillen’s only rules for Ramirez four walks. Indians pulled Carlos Carrasco, are that he must join his team-who was making his first start of mates for their pregame stretch, Cubs 5, Pirates 3 2010. be on the field for the national Thomas Diamond received a 
With the intimidating Ramirez anthem and play hard. He’s sure game ball and a beer shower waiting in the on-deck circle, that at least a few of his players after his first major league win. Konerko connected with two outs will encourage Ramirez to test his Diamond relieved injured off Justin Germano (0-1) as the new manager. starter Tom Gorzelanny and was native of nearby Evergreen Park, James McDonald (2-5) took the White Sox improved to 3-0 on a “Believe me, (Mark) Buehrle part of a strong effort by the Ill., departed for X-rays. loss, allowing three runs and 10-game trip that will next take will tell Manny not to show up for Chicago Cubs’ bullpen “That was very scary,” Tabata eight hits in five innings. them to Boston, where Ramirez the national anthem,” Guillen Wednesday in a victory over the said. “I saw the ball and I thought “For most of the game he was-may not be welcomed back with said. “That, I can guarantee you. Pittsburgh Pirates. it was his face. In the moment I n’t able to get the ball down like open arms by Red Sox fans. The players have known me for “It’s always nice to get the first. froze. I hope he’s better. I feel bad he usually does and it cost him a 
On Tuesday night, Ramirez was seven years. When somebody I wish it would have happened a for that.” little bit,” Pirates manager John on deck in the ninth and ready to doesn’t go by the rules, that little sooner,” Diamond said. After Gorzelanny left, five Cubs Russell said. pinch hit when A.J. Pierzynski hit makes me upset. I bet you some-“Now, hopefully we can go on and relievers combined to allow four Diamond, called up from a tiebreaking, three-run homer in body out there will tell him to do win a few more.” hits the rest of the way. Triple-A Iowa on Aug. 2, struck Chicago’s 4-3 win. something just to see my reac-Kosuke Fukudome had three “Now that I’ve moved from the out three and walked one. The 
Chicago reliever Tony Pena (4-tion.” hits, including a go-ahead double, rotation to the bullpen, hopefully Cubs won two of three in the 
2) pitched three innings after during a perfect day at the plate I can find a spot there and con-series and finished 5-10 against replacing Freddy Garcia, who left Astros 5, Cardinals 2 for the Cubs. Carlos Marmol tribute,” the 27-year-old last-place Pittsburgh this season. after four with a stiff back. Hunter Pence hit a three-run escaped a bases-loaded jam in Diamond said. “I’ve been feeling pretty good Rookie Chris Sale, the team’s homer and the Houston Astros the eighth inning and finished for Diamond (1-3) gave up two and I’ve been working on a new first-round draft pick, pitched the completed a sweep of St. Louis his 25th save in 30 chances. runs and two hits in 1 2-3 pitch — a cutter — with (pitching ninth for his first career save. with a victory Wednesday, hand-Gorzelanny was knocked out in innings. Marmol walked in a run coach) Larry (Rothschild),” The left-hander struck out Shin ing the slumping Cardinals their the third when Jose Tabata lined with two outs in the eighth but Diamond said. “Today I had a lit­Soo-Choo with the tying runs on fifth straight defeat. a shot off his right hand. The left-struck out Tabata to preserve a tle trouble with it, but it’s only base to end it. The fading Cardinals, who have hander, a former Pirate who is a 5-3 lead. about a week and a half old.” 
Wearing his familiar No. 99 and lost 13 of 16, began the day seven dreadlocks yet to be trimmed to games behind first-place team appearance standards, Cincinnati in the NL Central. The Ramirez went 1-for-3 in his Reds were scheduled to host return to the AL after 2½ seasons Milwaukee later. with the Dodgers. He grounded Nelson Figueroa (4-2) pitched out in the second, struck out in out of two bases-loaded jams and the fourth, blooped a single to lasted five innings for the win. right in the seventh and was hit Brandon Lyon worked a perfect in the upper back by a 70 mph ninth for his 11 save in 12 breaking ball from Germano in chances, sealing Houston’s 14th the ninth, two pitches after victory in 20 games. Konerko hit his 33rd homer. Shut out 3-0 the previous two 
The White Sox were counting nights, St. Louis snapped an 18­on Ramirez’s presence in their inning scoreless streak on Matt lineup to make a difference, and Holliday’s 24th homer in the first it already has — without him for a 2-0 lead. even hitting the ball hard. Jeff Suppan (1-7) was activated 
Chicago did get a home run from the disabled list before the from its other Ramirez, shortstop game and allowed only one hit Alexei, whose solo homer started until the Astros rallied in the fifth. the comeback in the eighth. He Brett Wallace drew a leadoff added a sacrifice fly in the ninth. walk and went to third on Jason 
Alex Rios also homered for the Castro’s double. Pinch-hitter White Sox. Brian Bogusevic hit a grounder to 
Before the rally, Chicago hardly first baseman Albert Pujols, who looked like a team in playoff con-threw out Wallace at the plate. tention. The White Sox made Michael Bourn hit a sacrifice fly three errors and struggled and Jeff Keppinger walked before against Carrasco, recalled from Pence’s go-ahead homer. Triple-A Columbus to start the Bourn singled in the seventh to series finale. He allowed six hits extend his hitting streak to 11 and three runs in 7 1-3 innings. games. He scored on Carlos Lee’s 
In the fourth, Garcia attempted sacrifice fly. to field an infield roller hit by Figueroa escaped a jam in the Jason Nix to the left of the third, when Suppan led off with a mound. After chasing it, he walk and Skip Schumaker sin-walked back to the rubber slowly gled. Aaron Miles and Pujols flied but appeared OK. He finished the out and Figueroa hit Holliday inning, but didn’t come out for with a pitch to load the bases the fifth and was replaced by before Jon Jay grounded into a Pena. force play. 
Garcia, who is 8-2 in his last 16 St. Louis loaded the bases again starts, has managed to stay off in the fifth on singles by Miles the disabled list so far this season and Jay and an intentional walk after injury problems hampered to Holliday with two outs. Ex-him the past three years. Astro Pedro Feliz flied out to end 
Along with running a team that the threat. always seems immersed in con-Figueroa allowed two runs and troversy, White Sox manager six hits. Five relievers combined 


Thursday, September 2, 2010 The Observer . SPORTS page 13 


US OPEN 


Azarenka collapses in match versus Dulko 
Oudin fails to repeat 2009 success with second round loss to Bondarenko; Isner cruises to next round with 3-set victory 
year in Scottsdale, Ariz., with worried for her.” 
Associated Press 
the family of NHL goalie 

NEW YORK — The scene Nikolai Khabibulin, someone Bondarenko def. Oudin was simply scary: Victoria she considers a mentor. Melanie Oudin of Marietta, Azarenka, a 21-year-old on Azarenka began wobbling Ga., was 17 a year ago when the rise in the WTA rankings, early in her match against she reached the U.S. Open paused about a half-hour into Gisela Dulko of Argentina, quarterfinals by beating two her second -round match taking extra time between top-20 players. Wednesday at the U.S. Open, points and wincing occasion-Oudin’s 2010 stay in New then staggered, stumbled and ally, clearly in distress. York was shorter: She lost in collapsed to the court. Azarenka said she “started the second round Wednesday 
Azarenka, seeded 10th in having trouble seeing and felt to No. 29 Alona Bondarenko the Grand Slam tournament, weak.” 6-2, 7-5. rolled over to rest her head She is an up-and-comer on “Definitely disappointing,” 
on her arm, and a trainer tour, part of a group of young Oudin said. “I still have, rushed over. Someone cov-players seen as potential hopefully, like, 10 more years ered Azarenka’s legs with a future Grand Slam champi-in my career, hopefully 10 white towel. She eventually ons. Azarenka beat Maria more U.S. Opens ahead of was helped into a wheelchair, Sharapova in the final of a me. So I’ll definitely be look-her yellow visor askew atop hard -court tournament in ing forward again to next her head, then taken to a California last month and year.” hospital, where tests showed pushed Serena Williams to Among the seeded women er Rebecca Marino of Canada he only converted three of 19 she had a mild concussion. three sets before losing in the bowing out was No. 21 Zheng before pulling out a 7-6 (3), that he earned. 
As a record-breaking sum-Australian Open quarterfinals Jie, overwhelmed 6-3, 6-0 by 6-3 win. The 6-foot -9 Isner was mer suffocates New York, the in January. 2008 French Open champion Marino actually led 3-1 in playing for the first time temperature in Flushing Against Williams in the Ana Ivanovic, who used to be the tiebreaker, before since injuring his ankle in Meadows headed into the 90s fourth round of the 2009 ranked No. 1 but has tumbled Williams took the next six Cincinnati two weeks ago, for a third consecutive day, Australian Open, Azarenka to No. 40. straight points to steal the and he said it “felt great; I and the mercury topped 100 stopped in the second set, No. 13 Marion Bartoli, No. opening set. took a four-to-six-week injury degrees on court. But tourna-dizzy and in tears, and 28 Alisa Kleybanova and No. “She started returning bet-and I got it ready in two ment referee Brian Early said blamed a virus. 32 Tsvetana Pironkova also ter, serving bombs. I think weeks.” Azarenka’s problem did “not Her frightening exit lost. Pironkova was ranked she definitely upped her During his postmatch, on-seem to be primarily a heat-Wednesday caught everyone’s only 82nd in June, when she level,” Marino said. “I did court interview, Isner was related illness.” attention. Top -seeded shocked Venus Williams in notice at one point that she asked — of course — about 
Indeed, Azarenka herself Caroline Wozniacki wrote on the quarterfinals, and they started to grunt pretty loudly. his match against Mahut at later revealed she fell in the Twitter: “Did anyone watch could have met in the third And it’s like, ‘Whoa, she’s the All England Club in June. gym while warming up before Vikas match?? I really hope round in New York. But getting serious here.’” Ever since then, Isner has the match, banging her head she is ok!” Pironkova bowed out in made clear that he appreci­and arm in the gym. The match was halted with straight sets against qualifier Isner def. Gil ates having been a part of 
“I was checked by the med-Azarenka trailing Dulko 5-1. Mandy Minella of Marathon man John Isner that match, yet hopes to one ical team before I went on “It was terrible. It’s not nice Luxembourg, who gets to face hit 19 aces and needed less day be known for something court and they were courtside to see someone feeling bad, Williams instead. than two hours to eliminate else he accomplishes in ten-for monitoring. I felt worse as not nice to win a match this Williams, who counts the Portugal’s Frederico Gil 6-4, nis. the match went on, having a way. I hope she feels OK 2000 and 2001 U.S. Opens 6-3, 6-4 in the first round of “It was a pretty historic headache and feeling dizzy,” now,” said Dulko, who walked among her seven Grand Slam the U.S. Open on Wednesday match,” he said Wednesday, said Azarenka, who is from around the net to check on titles, struggled for a bit night. “but I want to put it behind Belarus but lives part of the the prone Azarenka. “I was against 193rd-ranked qualifi-The 18th-seeded Isner is me.” 
best known for his record-Mahut failed to qualify for breaking 11-hour, 5-minute the singles tournament at victory over Nicolas Mahut at Flushing Meadows, but he did Wimbledon this year, a first-enter the men’s doubles round match that was spread event, losing earlier over three days and finished Wednesday. He said he chat­70-68 in the fifth set. ted briefly with Isner before 
There were no such the -the American took to the atrics against Gil, in part court against Gil, who is because Isner did not face a ranked 87th and fell to 0-9 in single break point, although Grand Slam action. 



page 14 The Observer . SPORTS Thursday, September 2, 2010 


Goshen 
continued from page 16 
n’t an overly competitive meet, and not someone I’m looking to gauge our success off of.” 
Sophomore Julia Kinney 
(20:48) was the first female competitor to cross the finish line and came in 11th overall. Kinney was closely followed by her teammates junior Joanne Almond (21:03), senior Catie Salyer (21:22), senior Claire McVey (22:07), sophomore Emma Baker (22:09), and sen­ior Kristy Kucharski (22:14). 
With the exception of fresh­man Colette Curtis, the team’s roster hasn’t changed much since last fall when they con­cluded their season at the NCAA Division III Regional Competition in Terre Haute, Ind. 
“We have a lot of depth this year, and our front pack looks a lot more relaxed and a lot deeper,” Bauters said. “This is probably one of the strongest teams I’ve coached. 
The Belles welcome back sophomore Dani Haydell, who took the second half of last sea­son off due to an injury. Haywell completes the 19-per­son roster. 
“Even though this wasn’t a race that counted towards any­thing, they still went out and gave their best today,” Bauters said. “They have high expecta­tions in general of themselves, which will make for a good sea­son for us.” 
Despite the hints at upcoming success, the Belles will be working on one particular aspect before the upcoming conference meets. 
“I think we’re just going to have to get our racing strategy for our three through seven spots so they can race togeth­er,” Bauters said. “They kind of split up today. We’re going to try to close that gap from three to seven and have that be a really strong pack before we go to our MIAA competition that really counts.” 
The next competition for the Belles will take place at Wabash on Saturday. 
“We hope we can recover enough to be ready for Saturday,” Bauters said. “The first couple of weeks are just going to be exploring what we have the potential to do.” 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 



Irish squads aim to defend title 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
The Irish hope to start their season at a fast pace as they defend their title at the Crusader Open at Sunset Farm Hills in Valparaiso, Ind. 
Both the Irish men’s and women’s teams claimed the title at last year’s Crusader Open and also claimed individ­ual titles as well. 
Senior Spencer Carter won the men’s individual title at the Open last season, running the race in 19:16, and junior Kelly Lynch and senior Mat Abernethy finished second and third, respectively. All three will shoot for another strong showing and try to sweep the 


Kelly 
continued from page 16 
Irish need to focus on playing. 
“At the end of the day, if you do that, if you play hard and give everything you have for four quarters, my experience has shown me that that’s going to be pretty good, and we’re going to have a lot of success,” he said. 
“So that’s kind of how we’ve dealt with the burgeoning pres­sure of being at Notre Dame. We’re just going to go play.” 
Contact Laura Myers at lmyers2@nd.edu 
top spots. 
With the men’s team holding high hopes of a strong start to the season, the Irish women’s team also has set the bar high. 
Both teams will be compet­ing at the Crusader Open, and typically use the first meet of the season as an ‘experience meet.’ 
“Runners that need experi­ence in order to improve will compete,” Irish women’s coach Tim Connelly said. “This meet helps to get experience.” 
Connelly said early exposure to the races could be especial­ly helpful for some runners, and that freshmen would get the chance to see if they are ready to race at the collegiate level. 
However, the freshmen won’t 


Pilots 
continued from page 16 
“We play them home or away every single year, so that really sets the bar high for the girls, and we know where we stand right off the bat playing a strong powerhouse, ” Kuschel said. 
The Belles take the court next at the Elmhurst Invitational on Friday and Saturday. 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
be the only ones gaining expe­rience this weekend. Three juniors will be trying to show that they are among the top on the Irish squad. 
Connelly said juniors Kari Johnson, Susanna Sullivan and Molly Hirt are close to joining the Irish elite and will be expected to show that they are ready to run well in the upcoming season. 
“They are pretty close to being our top runners,” Connelly said. “They just need to make that jump.” 
They will get their opportu­nity to make that jump when the Valparaiso Crusader Open kicks off on Friday. 

Contact Tim Singler tsingler@nd.edu 
Freshman setter Sammie Brown, too, showed her skills 



Brown 

on the court with 129 assists continued from page 16 and 28 digs. The players who were on the feel like our middle attack court last weekend aren’t the could be a little bit better in only ones on the coaching combination; if our passing is staff’s minds though. a little bit better then our mid-“In practice we’ve tried to dle attack could be better.” work on integrating some of Despite the need for the players that haven’t had improvement, a number of an opportunity to play yet into Irish players posted impressive the line up,” Brown said. “We stats in the Shamrock have a lot of talent on the Invitational. Acing her way bench and we’re just trying to 
into her col- find ways to uti­ 
lege was  career fresh­ “We have a lot of  lize the talent that we have.”  
man outside  talent on the bench  The  Irish  
hitter Andrea M c H u g h , whose per- and we’re just trying to fnd ways to utilize  hope to utilize those talents this weekend  
formance in  the talent that we  with  three  
the three m a t c h e s  have.”  matches in two days. Such a  
earned  her  tight schedule  
the Big East  Debbie Brown  on  the  road  
Rookie of the  Irish coach  might  also  

Week honor. McHugh readily made her presence known on the court at the Purcell Pavilion, recording two double-doubles with 11 kills and 16 digs against Marshall on Aug. 27 and 14 kills and 18 digs Aug. 28. She closed the weekend with 12 kills and a solo block, as well as had an ace in each of her three matches. 
Also recording notable per­formances in the Shamrock Invitational were Sciacca, Dealy, and sophomores Hilary Eppink and Marie Roof. Sciacca registered 48 kills and 12 blocks as Dealy struck down 38 kills, 4 assists, and 34 digs. Dealy was also the key player in bringing the Irish the win over Cal Poly with three consecutive kills in the fifth set. Eppink followed with 21 kills, six digs, and 12 blocks, as well as two aces against Cal Poly. Roof added in her own 10 kills, nine digs, and 12 blocks. 
worry some 
teams and cause them to lose focus, but Notre Dame is excited instead. 
“On the road, you’re with each other more, you’re think­ing about and talking about volleyball more,” Brown said. “You’re not going back to your dorm room or someplace in between matches; you’re stay­ing together. It’s actually a pretty fun thing when you’re on these road trips and the team gets to know each other better. I think that’s one of the things that helps the team gel so much.” 
As they work to gel together and mix up the lineup, the Irish will take on Belmont Friday,at 4:00 p.m. Pacific before playing both Weber State and Nevada Saturday, at 
10:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m., respectively. 

Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 



Thursday, September 2. 2010 The Observer . TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 




 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $65 for one semester 

Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 




Sports 
Thursday, September 2, 2010 page 16 
FOOTBALL 

Almost ready 
Players look to Saturday while coaching staff strives to stay focused on last practice 
By LAURA MYERS 
Sports Writer 
With just days until Notre Dame’s season opener against Purdue, Irish coach Brian Kelly is looking for perfection. 
“Our guys are obviously at that point where they want to play on Saturday,” Kelly said after prac­tice Wednesday. “We’re obvious­ly excited about the opportunity, but we’ve still got some work to do.” 
Kelly said Wednesday’s prac­tice was a work day, and Thursday’s will be about perfect­ing skills before Friday’s walk-through. 
“They’re anxious to play,” Kelly said, “but we’ve just got to pull the reins back a little bit and make sure that they continue to do what they need to do.” 
The players, though, are look­ing ahead to Saturday. 
“I’m waiting to feel what all the players feel the first time they run out of the tunnel,” freshman wide receiver TJ Jones said. 
However, players are also feel­ing pressure for the first game. 
“Purdue’s a good team,” junior center Braxston Cave said. “We’re going to have to bring our A-game.” 
Offensive coordinator Charley Molnar said the coaches have a strategy to counteract any nerves the players may feel. 
“We just get them to play fast and really concentrate on their assignment,” Molnar said. “When that happens they’re not thinking about the crowd or any­thing else, they’re just thinking about executing to the best of their ability.” 
Kelly said the team would be ready for Saturday’s game. 
“What we won’t be is not pre­pared,” he said. “… That’s the most important, at the end of the day, that my kids are prepared to play and that I put them in a good position.” 
However, he refrained from making any sort of predictions. 
“I won’t know until we start playing,” he said. “On paper, these guys are fine. But on paper is one thing. How does Dayne react when now it’s cover-zero and he has to react? I have to see him with the bullets flying.” 
Overall, Kelly said Tuesday, the 
see KELLY/page 14 
SMC VOLLEYBALL 


Belles drop opener to cross-town rival Bethel 
Sophomore Zandarski leads Saint Mary’s in kills; setter Brink chips in 14 assists in loss 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
As they do every year, the Belles opened their season against Bethel in a matchup of cross-town rivals. Making full use of their home court advantage, the Pilots hand­ed Saint Mary’s its first loss of the season in straight sets (25-17, 25-12, 25-23). 
“The first game we came 
out really strong, ” Belles coach Toni Kuschel said. “We were a little bit con ­cerned with our servers going into the match, but we just did a phenomenal job on serve-receive. I cannot say enough good things about our serve reception and our defense. Going into the game strong, we just pretty much went point-for­point with them.” 
Pilots sophomore Callie Hartman led all players with 11 kills, while adding 18 digs and two blocks. Junior Ashley Wagner chipped in with nine kills, two aces, and three blocks. 
Despite picking up the loss, several players made significant contributions for the Belles (0 -1), which Kuschel expects to continue heading into the conference season. 
Sophomore Allison Zandarski paced the squad with six kills, while fresh­man Christi Wyble and soph­
omore Stephanie Bodien each added four. Junior Danie Brink helped lead the offense with 14 assists to go along with three digs. 
“Zandarski was just huge up at the net for us, got a lot of touches for us, and really came in and did a great job in key plays, ” Kuschel said. “She really ended the play well for us. She goes up strong, and puts the ball away when she goes up. That was really great to see her and our junior setter [Brink] connect tonight.” 
The Belles struggled to find a rhythm in the second set, as Bethel (1-0) jumped 
out to an early lead that they would not relinquish. Nevertheless, Saint Mary’s came out strong to start the third and final set, taking a lead before the Pilots rallied to earn their first victory of the season. 
see PILOTS/page 14 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer Quarterback Nate Montana works through drills during Wednesday’s practice. Notre Dame opens the season with Purdue Saturday. 
ND VOLLEYBALL 
SMC CROSS COUNTRY 


SMC takes top eight positions 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
Eight Saint Mary’s runners completed Wednesday’s home exhibition race before the first female runner from Goshen finished as the Belles got a strong start to the 2010 season. 
“They looked really great with a good, strong finish,” head coach Jackie Bauters said. “They ran together for the most part, which is great. It was a really good first race performance.” 
The Belles welcomed both the men’s and the women’s teams from their cross-town competitors, the Goshen College Leafs. 
“It was nice for the girls to have the men to compete with,” Bauters said. “We don’t typical­ly race against Goshen. It was-
see GOSHEN/page 14 




Irish focus on themselves 

PAT COVENEY/The Observer Freshman outside hitter Andrea McHugh waits at the net during Notre Dame’s match againstArizona last Sunday. McHugh won Big East Rookie of the Week honors last week. 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
After a challenging Sunday match that ended in defeat against Arizona, the Irish are ready to take another stand this weekend as they travel to the Nevada Invitational in Reno, Nevada, to take on a trio of teams, Belmont, Weber State and Nevada. 
But Notre Dame isn’t really worried about other teams right now. All Irish coach Debbie Brown and her players are focused on right now is their team. 

“Our greater concern right now is how we’re playing and how we’re progressing,” Brown said. “Certainly we think that each of the teams will present different chal­lenges for us but our main focus is on what we’re doing rather than what maybe our opponent is going to do at this point in the season.” 
Placing the team first has been working for them so far. The Irish opened their season this past weekend at the Shamrock Invitational, where they defeated Marshall 3-1 and Cal Poly 3-2 but fell 3-1 to Arizona. Notre Dame knew the weekend would be a challeng­ing one, especially with six freshmen making their Irish debut, but it was successful and gave Brown ideas of spe­cific areas of play that her team needed to work on. 
“What we will work on always throughout the season is our serve receive,” she said. “How we’re passing, how we’re handling the opponent’s serves and receiving serves from a lot of different areas on the court, different types of serves. We 
see BROWN/page 14 




