the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Students assaulted near bus route stop 
By MADELINE BUCKLEY 
News Editor 
Three students were assaulted while trying to board the Transpo bus route 7A early Sunday morning. 
One of the students, who wishes to remain anonymous, said he was walking toward the bus after leaving a house party near the corner of Miner St. and Notre Dame Ave. when a man accompa­nied by several people attacked him and two others. 
The Notre Dame senior said a man approached one of the victims, grabbed him and asked him for money before the student got on the bus. He said the man then approached him and asked for a lighter when he assaulted him. 
“I stopped walking long enough for him to step for­ward and punch me in the face,” he said. “I have no memory of what happened from this point until I was on the bus bleeding a lot. The 30 or so seconds in between are blank.” 
The same man then attacked the other student, also a male senior, when he tried to help his friend onto the bus. The bus driver helped the students get into the bus and drove away, the 
see ASSAULT/page 4 


Branch of econ dept. to be dissolved 
The remaining economics Other Economics and Policy Economics and Policy Studies By JOHN TIERNEY department, the Department of Studies faculty “are going to find will not impact faculty members’ News Writer Economics and Econometrics, homes in other departments and tenure status. Faculty members 
will be renamed the Department other pro-who are unable to find another 
The Department of Economics of Economics, McGreevy said. g r a m s 
department or program in the and Policy Studies will likely be Some faculty members from a c r o s s 
University will report directly to dissolved by the beginning of the Economics and Policy Studies campus,” 
the associate dean for social sci­2010-11 academic year, John will join the new department, McGreevy 
ences. McGreevy, dean of the College of but the new department will not said. He 
Economics and Policy Studies Arts and Letters, said. be a combination of the two cited the 
faculty members will continue to McGreevy submitted a recom-existing departments, McGreevy K r o c 
teach economics courses, mendation last month to the said. Institute, 
McGreevy said. Academic Council that the “We had a principle that we the Kellogg 
The decision to dissolve University discontinue the weren’t going to force anyone Institute Economics and Policy Studies Department of Economics and into a department they don’t and the was not an attempt to distance Policy Studies. The Academic want to go to, and we’re not Poverty Studies minor as poten-the University from alternative Council is set to discuss the rec-going to force a department to tial homes for Economics and economic theories, he said. ommendation in its next meeting accept someone they don’t Policy Studies faculty. on Feb. 25. want,” he said. The decision to dissolve see ECON/page 4 


Club focuses on international development 
Newly-created IDRC encourages students to pursue study, research opportunities abroad 
with future economists; future
By KATIE PERALTA 
engineers with future anthropol-
Assistant News Editor 
ogists; future philosophers with future politicians — the list goes Ask questions, find answers, 
on,” Paul Jindra, co-president 
change the world. This task is 
and founder of IDRC, said. 
ambitious, but one that the 
Jindra, a senior who majors in 
International Development 
economics and history, saw the 
Research Council (IDRC), a new 
need for such a group at the 
student-created and student-run 
University and an ample oppor­
organization, hopes to accom­
tunity for undergraduate dia­
plish through outreach to stu­
logue about development issues. 
dents of all backgrounds and 
“I’ve worked on development 
majors. 
concerns across four continents,
The club aims to promote 
and have seen firsthand that 
awareness of international 
there’s no easy answer to the 
development as well as extreme 
question of poverty,” he said. “If 
poverty through a multi-discipli­
we want to make a dent, we 
nary lens, Catherine Reidy, IDRC 
have to talk to one another, sup­
press secretary, said. 
port one another, learn from one 
Issues must be examined, 
another. 
Reidy said, through a business­
“That was the vision I had for 
economic standpoint, for exam-
IDRC: a place where students 
ple, as well as a psychological one. “Future doctors have to talk see CLUB/page 8 





SMCholdsMass,collects funds for Haiti relief 
By ALICIA SMITH 
News Writer 
Saint Mary’s College Campus Ministry offered a special Mass Monday in honor of the victims of the recent earthquake in Haiti. 
The Mass provided the oppor­tunity for students to join in prayer for those lost in the disas­ter. 
“We want to make sure we provide this opportunity for stu­dents and others on campus to be together in prayer for the people of Haiti. The Eucharist is a very significant way for us to actually gather in spiritual soli­darity with those who are griev­ing and suffering,” Judy Fean, director of Campus Ministry said. “The Mass is a special way for us on campus to be united with the people of Haiti and through this unity to gain greater awareness of what our responsibility might be to assist in their recovery.” 
During the Mass, a collection was held on behalf of the vic­tims. The funds gathered during the collection will be distributed to Catholic Relief Services as well as the missions of the Congregation of Holy Cross in Haiti. Collections will also be taken up at Mass on Sunday at 
7:15 p.m. in the Holy Spirit Chapel in LeMans Hall and at 
see HAITI/page 8 


Revue returns to campus 

By SARA FELSENSTEIN 
News Writer 
Put your hands up for the Revue.S.A.: the Keenan Revue, Keenan Hall’s signature event, is back again this weekend, with a show Thursday, Friday and Saturday nights. 
The tickets for the show sold out in less than 12 minutes when they went on sale Thursday, producer Conor Rogers said. 
“Our comedy ranges from satires of musicals to football team jokes, even to pop culture, like movies and TV,” Rogers, a junior, said. “There’s going to be a lot of music this year involved in the skits [in addition to] the music numbers themselves. The 
see REVUE/page 4 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Campus Life Council page 3  Top 50 films part two page 12  Men’s basketball falls to Syracuse page 24  Viewpoint page 10 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Tuesday, January 19, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT MOVIE BEST DESCRIBES YOUR LI E RIGHT NOW?
INSIDE COLUMN 
Classy or trashy? 

Sandra Bullock. Classy. Meryl Streep. Classy x 10. Mariah Carey. Yikes. 
With a neckline that plunged from here to eternity, Mariah Carey’s Golden Globe gown made almost as much of a statement as her drunken accept-Adrianna Pratt ance speech at the Palm Springs Film Assistant Festival two weeks 
Scene editor 
ago. While she teetered on the edge of classless, there were thankfully some beauties on board to refocus our attention on the glory of the Globes. 
Kate Hudson and Marion Cotillard both deserved “nines” (pun intended) for the fabulous couture creations they donned, shining in spite of the gloomy rain. Hudson’s white Marchesa confec­tion, peaking at the bust, nipped at the waist and tailored into a long train at her heels gave her the image of an emerging tulip blooming underneath the shelter of her black umbrella. Cotillard’s one-shouldered deep jewel-toned Christian Dior gown twisted and turned at every right spot, with a slit revealing a fabulous black lace slip and leg seductively peaking out. 
Other fashion winners of the night included recently engaged Jane Krakowski in a purple jewel-toned one-shoulder J. Mendel gown, newcomer Anna Kendrick (“Up in the Air”) in a skin-toned one-shoulder Marchesa with jewel details and Toni Collete (“The United States of Tara”) in an Elie Saab creation accented with gold beads to contour the angles of her body. 
Jennifer Garner and Julia Roberts didn’t bring their best, but they main­tained hints of some old-school ele­gance. January Jones said she wanted to avoid the ‘60s look made especially popular by her hit show “Mad Men,” but the mod vibes of her straight black Lanvin dress and prominent black headband perched at her hairline screamed “Twiggy!” 
It was obvious that Vera Farmiga (“Up in the Air”) and Tina Fey were try­ing, but both fell a bit short of the fabu­lous-line with pieces that weren’t quite there. Farmiga’s Dolce & Gabbana jet-black strapless fishtail gown was cer­tainly eye-catching, but as most fishtail gowns go, it failed to flatter the fabu­lous body we saw in her Golden Globe-nominated film. Fey looked cute in a tiered retro black-and-white Zac Posen dress, but her icy layers didn’t take the cake. 
No one was quite as breathtaking as Zoe Saldana (“Avatar”) in a deep rose Louis Vuitton tiered dress, though. The berry color played perfectly with her skin tone as a mixture of silk and chif­fon twisted and twirled about her body. Jet and Swarovski crystals embroidered in the ruffles gave her radiance an extra sparkle with every turn. Her suc­cess with the gown choice was almost greater than Avatar’s at the box office. 
This year’s Golden Globes brought a slew of stars looking gorgeous as usual and surprisingly scattered the red car­pet with only a few failures. Cross your fingers that the Oscars in March meet the same success and that those who dropped the ball this time around (Ms. Carey) will pick it up before Oscar comes to town. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Adrianna Prat at 
apratt@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 


Leon Zhou Keith Hetrick 
sophomore sophomore Stanford Keenan 
“‘Up in the “‘Felon’.” Air’.” 

Jeremy Lamb 
sophomore Knott 
“‘Sleepless in South Bend’.” 

Chris Anderson 
sophomore Keenan 
“James Cameron’s ‘Avatar: A 3D Experience’.” 

Matt Ong 
sophomore Keenan 
“‘American Gangster’.” 
Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer During the halftime performance at the Notre Dame men’s basketball game against Syracuse, a performer wows the crowd by balancing on a unicycle and simultaneously catching bowls on her head. 
OFFBEAT 
California man shoots his way out of sinking vehicle 
ROSEVILLE — A driver whose SUV plunged into a Northern California creek after he was startled by his hands-free cell phone device escaped the sinking vehicle by blasting out the window with a handgun. The 28­year-old man, whose name wasn’t immediately avail­able, is an armed security guard at Thunder Valley Casino, north of Sacramento. He sustained minor injuries in Sunday’s accident. 
A spokesman for the Roseville Fire Department said the man was traveling northbound on Industrial Avenue in Roseville when the cell phone device activat­ed. The driver was startled and veered off the road through the guardrail. The SUV landed in Pleasant Grove Creek. 
He used his gun to shoot himself out, then flagged down a passerby. 
Country’s only hippo escapes zoo during floods 
PODGORICA — Montenegro’s only hip­popotamus escaped from the mountainous Adriatic nation’s zoo during floods this week, officials said Wednesday. 
The two-ton female called Nikica broke out of her cage and swam away after sea­sonal floods hit the zoo just outside the Montenegrin capital Podgorica, zoo man­ager Davor Mujovic said. 
“She remains at large, but one of the guards is keeping an eye on her and is feeding her daily,” he said. 
The hippo found a dry spot a mile away from the zoo as shelter from cold flood waters. Mujovic said zoo guards would have to wait until the water recedes to try to lure the animal back to its enclosure with food. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight wednesday thursday 

IN BRIEF 
A panel discussion entitled “Man in Black 2” will take place tonight at 7 p.m. in the Andrews Auditorium of Geddes Hall. The discussion will feature Rev. Paul Doyle, Rev. Timothy Scully, Rev. Ralph Haag and Rev. William Lies talking about their experi­ences as Holy Cross priests and their lives in the Notre Dame community. 
The March for Life Send-Off Mass will take place tonight at 9 p.m. in the Basilica of the Sacred Heart. Bishops Kevin C. Rhoades and John D’Arcy and university president Rev. John Jenkins will preside. 
Poet and English professor Henry Weinfeld will read at the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore from 7:30 p.m. to 9 
p.m. Wednesday. 
The 21st Annual Notre Dame Student Film Festival will begin Thursday with screenings at 
6:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. in the Browning Cinema at the DeBartolo Center for the Performing Arts. Tickets are $3 for students, $5 for faculty, and $6 for the general public. Tickets can be purchased in advance by calling 574-631­2800. 
Theater L.A.: Theatre Works presents the world premiere of the RFK Project Friday in the Decio Mainstage Theatre at the DeBartolo Performing Arts Center at 7 p.m. Tickets are $15 for students, $25 for faculty and $36 for the general public. Call 574-631-2800 for tickets. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
friday Saturday 

Atlanta 63 / 43 Boston 37 / 27 Chicago 30 / 24 Denver 50 / 32 Houston 68 / 57 Los Angeles 59 / 47 Minneapolis 28 / 12 New York 43 / 32 Philadelphia 47 / 33 Phoenix 59 / 49 Seattle 55 / 43 St. Louis 47 / 34 Tampa 69 / 49 Washington 53 / 36 

Tuesday, January 19, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 


University policies reviewed 
Council requests student feedback for possible modifications to du Lac 
By MEGAN DOYLE 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Council 
(CLC) is beginning the new semester with a review of University policies outlined in du Lac: A Guide to Student Life and plans to discuss possible revisions with the Office of Student Affairs in coming meetings. 
“The revisions to du Lac are the epitome of respon­sibility when it comes to the CLC, ” student body president Grant Schmidt said. “They will be a mas­sive priority for the next few meetings.” 
Associate Vice President for Residence Life Bill Kirk met with the members of CLC to give the group the opportunity to present the 

revision in the next edition “I plan on bringing this of du Lac,” the handbook information back to my states. staff meetings and asking Kirk said he hopes stu -for their input as well, ” 
dents will offer feedback on possible du Lac revisions to student gov­ernment. 
“Students and student 
organizations 
wishing to pro­vide comments 
on 
policies and/or proce ­dures are encouraged to 


submit such comments to student government repre­sentatives,” Kirk said. 
Kirk will attend the Jan. 25 meeting of the CLC to 
identify the 
areas of the 

“The revisions of du 
handbook that 

Lac are the epitome
are being con­sidered for of responsibility when review. 
it comes to the CLC.” 
“The asso ­ciate vice president for Grant Schmidt Residence Life student body president will make a best effort to 
policies the Office of Student Affairs is cur­rently target­ing for revi ­sion. The Council will discuss these potential changes along with feedback from the rest 
of the Notre 

identify to the Campus Life Dame community before Council those policies meeting with Kirk again on under consideration for Feb. 8. 
“We are essentially a sounding board to provide comments and concerns for these changes.” 
Grant Schmidt student body president 
Lewis Hall rector Linda Cirillo said. 
Schmidt said certain issues will “definitely merit serious questions as to their revi­sion ” and requested that the CLC members be attentive and 
committed to all the topics put on the table. He emphasized the CLC ’s responsibility to act as a representative of the stu­dent body. 
“We are essentially a sounding board to provide comments and concerns for these changes, ” Schmidt said. 
While CLC does not make any final decisions about the revisions, Schmidt said it can serve as a strong voice before the Office of Student Affairs for cri ­tiques of current policies and procedures. 
Contact Megan Doyle at mdoyle11@nd.edu 
Football program ranks as second most valuable 


By CARLY LANDON 
News Writer 
It’s no secret that each fall, Notre Dame football brings in crowds, fans and money. This year, Forbes Magazine ranked Notre Dame’s Football Program as the second most valuable col­lege football program in the country in a survey published on Dec. 22. 
“Certainly it is a great compli­ment to us and our program, senior associate athletic director for Media and Broadcast Relations John Heisler said. “Not only are the programs in that rank and in that pool con­sidered to be good programs, but they are known to be some of the best teams.” 
Ranked just below University of Texas, which was ranked first with a value of $119 million, Notre Dame is valued at $108 million. Forbes used a set of standardized revenue and expense streams for each uni­versity surveyed. 
Forbes also listed the divi­dends generated by each foot­ball program by analyzing how much money was contributed back to the University as a whole and to other athletics pro­grams after subtracting the cost of running the football opera­tion. 
Forbes placed Notre Dame’s football program at an overall dividend of $38 million. 
“Most the revenue is up to a lot of factors that have been in place a long time,” Heisler said. “We have had sellouts consis­tently since the 1960s. The abili­ty to have a fully packed stadi­um for 40 years is a huge part of it.” 
Heisler said he attributes Notre Dame’s revenue to its tick­et prices, television profits from a deal with NBC and “a handful of other odds and ends.” 
“We’re a department like any other so if we have a greater revenue than our budget it just goes back to the University for the University’s use,” Heisler said. 
Heisler also said the revenue from the football program bene­fits other athletics here at Notre Dame. 
“Football has enabled us to pay our own way for not just football but also the other 25 sports. We have more than 300 full scholarships for our athletes and we pay those over the counter, essentially we are pay­ing back to the University the full amount of the scholarship,” he said. “We are probably the best customers because through our revenue, we are basically paying it back. 
“The athletic department is paying for athletics, and we are very fortunate to have the rev­enue to do so,” Heisler said. 
Contact Carly Landon at clandon1@nd.edu 


page 4 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 19, 2010 
SMC to celebrate Heritage Week 

By ALISON MEAGHER 
News Writer 
Both students and faculty of Saint Mary’s will celebrate Heritage Week this week in order to honor the College’s history. 
“Saint Mary’s College is rich in tradition,” Katrina Mesina, Student Government Association (SGA) chief of staff, said. “Heritage Week scavenger 

“Heritage Week is the 
celebrates the hunt. Throughout past and edu-unique opportunity to the week, SGA 
cates the women truly fnd your place will be e-mailing 
of Saint Mary’s scavenger hunt 
in Saint Mary’s past, 
about the roots clues to all stu­of their college.” present and future.” dents and faculty 
SGA will be daily. Answer sponsoring sev-sheets are avail-
Jenny Hoffman 
eral events this able throughout 
SGA president
week, including campus. 
tea at the Reidinger House, a weeklong scavenger hunt, a s’mores bar and the annual Heritage Dinner. 
Planning for Heritage Week began last August. Mesina and Mission Chair Emma Hoffman have been working with Archives, Sodexho and other SGA members in order to uphold traditional events and create new ones. 
A select group of students were selected to attend tea at the 
Revue 
continued from page 1 
guys have done a really good job.” 
The Keenan Revue is a Keenan Hall tradition that dates back to 1976 and is now going on its 35th year. About 90 residents of Keenan are involved in the production of the Revue, Rogers said. 
Each September, the leaders of the Revue open up a box for theme suggestions to the dorm. This year’s theme developed from one sugges­tion to call the show: “Party in the Revue.S.A.” Although Rogers and director Tim Treat anticipated that the Miley Cyrus phenomenon would have died down by January, they chose to build on the suggestion, ultimately deciding on the theme Revue.S.A vs. Revue.S.S.R: A Cold War Revue. 
“Not to say there won’t be a joke or two about Miley Cyrus,” Rogers said. 
In September, Rogers and Treat drafted letters to Keenan Hall alum­ni, as well as former directors and producers of the Revue, asking for donations. Rogers said the majority of the funding for the Revue comes from donations from Keenan Hall alumni, and about 10 percent of the budget is funded by Keenan Hall. Any additional money raised goes to charity, Rogers said. 
This year’s head writers are sen­ior Danny Wheeland, director of last year’s show, and sophomore Brian Bettonville. They have spent months developing the skits. 
Music will play an integral part of this year’s show. A rock band formed by Keenen men will per­form for most of the skits involving music. The group will play four songs, two of which feature the per­formers stripping down to minimal clothing, sophomore band member Mike Rodio said. 
Sticking to the show’s theme, Rodio will be performing Ben Folds’ song, “Army.” The Revue will also feature an original song by junior Zach DuBois. 
Reidinger House Tuesday. 
The annual Heritage Dinner will be in Stapleton Lounge at 
6:30 p.m. Thursday. Students will have an opportunity to dine with nuns from Augusta Hall. 
A new event that has been added to this year’s celebration is the s’mores bar. The event will be held in Haggar Hall Friday evening and is free for students. 
Also new to Heritage Week is the 
At the end of 
the week, the grand prize winner will receive a free semester meal plan, and other high scoring participants will be awarded gift cards to the bookstore. 
“Heritage Week is the unique opportunity to truly find your place in Saint Mary’s past, pres­ent and future,” Jenny Hoffman, SGA president, said. 
Contact Alison Meagher at ameagh01@saintmarys.edu 
“The band practices about an hour and a half a day for two weeks [before the show],” Rodio said. “The strippers start choreographing after break. Everything was put into motion before break. Revue Week is when we take everything that’s been rolling thus far and put it into one big unit. It’s amazing how quickly it comes together when we get on stage.” 
While bits and pieces of the show are compiled throughout the year, the production of the Revue does not begin until second semester. 
“It’s such an established tradition that the process of getting the Revue from conception to performance is not only easy to do but extremely entertaining in the process,” Rodio said. “We have just as much fun putting this thing together as the audience does watching it.” 
Rogers said the Revue brings together Keenan as a hall but also acts to bring together the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s communi­ties. 
“It’s got people from different sec­tions of the dorm that haven’t known each other before. I would say it brings people of all grade lev­els together in Keenan,” Rogers said. “In some ways, it brings the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s cam­puses together also.” 
Each year after the Revue, there are some negative reactions to the show’s humor. Rogers said audience members should take everything said during the performance with a grain of salt. 
“You can’t please everyone — there’s always going to be someone who thinks you cross the line. Our goal is not to offend people,” he said. “It’s more of a witty satire and look­ing at how absurd certain [things in are culture] are. You have to remember that it is a college stu­dent production.” 
The Keenan Revue will be held Thursday, Friday and Saturday night at 7 p.m. at Saint Mary’s O’Laughlin Auditorium. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 
Assault 
continued from page 1 
victim said. 
Once on the bus, the stu­dents called 911 and were met by Notre Dame Security Police (NDSP) at Library Circle. 
“I received stitches above my upper lip and on the inside of my mouth because a tooth had gone through my lip,” the victim said. “I feel lucky that the bus driver, who isn’t paid to be a body­guard, put himself in danger helping to stop the assault 
Econ 
continued from page 1 
“In the long run, we’re going to have more economic diversity, not less,” he said. “In the new Department of Economics, we’re going to want economic diversi­ty.” 
McGreevy said the proposed changes would help faculty members currently in Economics and Policy Studies participate in the economics conversations. 
“Right now, we have two departments that don’t commu­nicate with each other, and we don’t anticipate adding faculty to Economics and Policy Studies,” McGreevy said. “It seems almost unfair for them to sit there with­out a chance for growth. It’s bet­ter to integrate them into other units on campus.” 
Integrating economists into other departments and pro­grams will allow them to partici­pate in a larger academic con­versation, according to McGreevy. 
“We’ll have better conversa­tions when we don’t have these two departments,” he said. “At and to get us on the bus.” 
Assistant director for NDSP Dave Chapman said an offi­cer responded to an assault call early Sunday morning and escorted students to the hospital. The South Bend Police Department responded as well and are in charge of the investigation and police report. 
The student said he was surprised that the attack was able to happen near the bus, which is meant to be a safe way for students to get to bars and student houses. Before he was attacked, about 20 students had just boarded the bus. 
“I know [Notre Dame] made the bus route with Transpo to help keep us all safer and I am thankful for that, but even feet outside the bus we are not always safe. I felt safe there and had my guard down” he said. “I was feet from the door to a bus carrying 30 or more stu­dents and was not walking alone. 
“If a stranger stops you outside the Transpo bus you are not safe just because there are 30 or so witnesses within feet.” 
Contact Madeline Buckley at mbuckley@nd.edu 
the level of the economics con-The decision to dissolve versation, [Economics and Policy Economics and Policy Studies is 
Studies profes­sors] will be able to contribute more” by moving to a different department. 
Working in a different depart­ment or program will allow an Economics and Policy Studies fac­ulty member to use his or her new program’s larger resources to promote research and ideas, according to McGreevy. 
McGreevy char­
“Right now we have two departments that don’t communicate with each other, and we don’t anticipate adding faculty to Economics and Policy Studies.” 
John McGreevy dean College of Arts and Letters 
“about trying to build a bet­ter program,” he said. 
Although he said he is not motivated by ranki ngs, McGreevy said they have some merit. “I think it’s unaccept­able for Notre Dame to have a major depart­ment ranked 109,” he said. “It’s important to build up a mainstream economics 
acterized the criticism that he is department. Notre Dame suffers opposed to multiple economic if we don’t have that.” viewpoints as a “misconception.” 
“I am committed to building a Contact John Tierney at mainstream economics depart-jtierne1@nd.edu ment at Notre Dame, but it does­n’t have to be monolithic,” McGreevy said. 
Another misconception is that “only the Economics and Policy Studies group cares about Catholic social thought,” McGreevy said. 



World & Nation 
Tuesday, January 19, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Chinese help update Algeria 
ALGIERS, Algeria — While still struggling with the aftermath of a decade-long Islamic insurgency, oil-rich yet impoverished Algeria is getting a makeover: a new airport, its first mall, its largest prison, 60,000 new homes, two luxury hotels and the longest continuous highway in Africa. 
The power behind this runaway building spree is China. 
Some 50 Chinese firms, largely state-con­trolled, have been awarded $20 billion in government construction contracts, or 10 percent of the massive investment plan promised by President Abdelaziz Bouteflika for a nation where jobs and housing are scarce and al-Qaida has struck roots. 
Toronto 18 ringleader sentenced 
BRAMPTON, Ontario — The ringleader of a homegrown terror plot involving 18 people that planned to set off truck bombs in front of Canada’s main stock exchange and two government buildings was given a life sen­tence on Monday. 
Zakaria Amara, 24, pleaded guilty in October. He acknowledged being a leader of the so-called Toronto 18 plot to set off bombs outside Toronto’s Stock Exchange, a building housing Canada’s spy agency and a military base. The goal was to scare Canada into removing its troops from Afghanistan. 
The 2006 arrests of Amara and 17 others made international headlines and height­ened fears in a country where many people thought they were relatively immune from terrorist strikes. 
NATIONAL NEWS 
Mudslides threaten S. California 
LA CANADA FLINTRIDGE, Calif.— Authorities ordered the evacuation of 64 Southern California homes Monday as heavy rains pounded a neighborhood just below an area scarred by a massive wildfire. Forty-two other homeowners were told to be ready to leave if necessary. 
Officials feared mudslides could threaten a number of foothill areas along the San Gabriel Mountains north of Los Angeles. 
Los Angeles County fire Inspector Matt Levesque said homeowners in the Paradise Valley area of La Canada Flintridge were notified of the possible danger after a catch basin filled with sliding mud and debris. 
The area was near the scene of the Station Fire last summer that scorched about 250 square miles of Angeles National Forest. 
Conjoined twins to be separated 
MESA, Ariz. — Conjoined twin sisters from Arizona have already defied expectations by living past their third birthdays. Now their parents are hoping they’ll become one of the first sets of twins sharing a heart to be suc­cessfully separated. 
Emma and Taylor Bailey live near Queen Creek, southeast of Phoenix. They were born connected at the chest — sharing a liver and heart — and weren’t expected to leave the hospital. 
The girls exceeded medical expectations but now have heart failure. And their par­ents, Mandy and Tor Bailey, know they must be surgically separated to survive in the long term. 
The Baileys have been working with a team at Seattle Children’s Hospital for about two years to prepare for separation. 
LOCAL NEWS 

Crows invade Indiana city 
TERRE HAUTE, Ind. — Thousands of crows have descended on Terre Haute, making a mess of downtown and causing trouble for business owners. 
A researcher estimates that at least 32,000 crows are roosting in the city this winter, leaving sidewalks and trees covered in drop­pings.
While its unknown why the crows return to the city year after year, Indiana State University associate biology professor Peter Scott theorizes that the warmth and lights attract the birds. 
Scott said the crows also might choose the city because it offers protection from preda­tors or a source of food. 
HAITI 
Looting adds to nation’s tragedy 
Unmet need of hundreds of thousands grows and donations pour in 
Associated Press 
PORT-AU-PRINCE— The staggering scope of Haiti’s nightmare came into sharper focus Monday as authorities estimated 200,000 dead and 1.5 mil­lion homeless in the heart of this luckless land, where injured survivors still died in the streets, doctors pleaded for help and loot­ers slashed at one another in the rubble. 
The world pledged more money, food, medicine and police. Some 2,000 U.S. Marines steamed into near­by waters. And ex-presi­dent Bill Clinton, special 
U.N. envoy, flew in to offer support. 
But hour by hour the unmet needs of hundreds of thousands grew. 
“Have we been aban­doned? Where is the food?” shouted one man, Jean Michel Jeantet, in a down­town street. 
The U.N. World Food Program (WFP) said it expected to boost opera­tions from feeding 67,000 people on Sunday to 97,000 on Monday. But it needs 100 million prepared meals over the next 30 days, and it appealed for more gov­ernment donations. 
“I know that aid cannot come soon enough,” U.N. Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said in New York after returning from Haiti. 
“Unplug the bottlenecks,” he urged. In one step to reassure frustrated aid groups, the 
U.S. military agreed to give aid deliveries priority over military flights at the now-U.S.-run airport here, the WFP announced in Rome. The Americans’ handling of civilian flights had angered some humanitarian offi­cials. 
Sunday’s looting and vio­lence raged into Monday, as hundreds clambered over the broken walls of shops to grab anything they could — including tooth­paste, now valuable for lin-ing nostrils against the stench of Port-au-Prince’s dead. Police fired into the air as young men fought each other over rum and beer with broken bottles and machetes. 

Hard-pressed medical teams sometimes had to take time away from quake victims to deal with gun­shot wounds, said Loris de Filippi of Doctors Without Borders. In the Montrissant neighborhood, Red Cross doctors working in shipping containers and saying they “cannot cope” lost 50 patients over two days, said international Red Cross spokesman Simon Schorno. 
The latest casualty report, from the European Commission citing Haitian government figures, dou­bled previous estimates of the dead from the magni­tude-7.0 quake, to approxi­mately 200,000, with some 70,000 bodies recovered and trucked off to mass graves. If accurate, that would make Haiti’s catas­trophe about as deadly as the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami, which killed an estimated 230,000 people in a dozen countries. 
European Commission analysts estimate 250,000 were injured and 1.5 mil­lion were made homeless. Masses are living under plastic sheets in makeshift camps and in dust-covered automobiles, or had taken to the road seeking out rel­atives in the safer country­side. 
An impoverished nation long at the bottom of the heap, Haiti will need years or decades of expanded aid to rebuild. For the moment, however, front-line relief workers want simply to get food and water to the hun­gry and thirsty. 
The delays aren’t “so much about food supplies as logistics,” said Brian Feagans, a spokesman for the aid group CARE. The priorities are clearing roads, ensuring security at 
U.N. food distribution points, getting this city’s seaport working again and bringing in more trucks and helicopters, WFP Executive Director Josette Sheeran said in Rome. 
VIETNAM 
City builds houses to make amends 
Associated Press 
HAMTRAMCK, Mich.— More than 40 years after her family was forced from their home because they were black, Sallie Sanders received the keys to a new house built to settle one of the longest-running cases of housing discrimination in the United States. 
“My parents would be ecstatic that their offspring would be able to enjoy the things they couldn’t,” the 60-year-old Sanders said Monday before a ceremony to celebrate the milestone on Martin Luther King Jr. Day. 
Hamtramck agreed in 1980 to develop 200 family housing units to make up for violating the civil rights of blacks whose neighborhoods were targeted by white officials to make way for urban renewal projects in the 1960s. 
Hamtramck still hasn’t met that goal, although officials predict it will by next year. The city of 23,000 is now extremely diverse, with immi­grants from the Middle East, Africa and Bangladesh passing by a statue of Pope John Paul II in the histori­cally Polish community. 
“Everyone here practices their cul­ture without fear or hesitation,” said Shahab Ahmed, one of three Muslims on the city council. 
The 2000 census found 41 percent of residents were born in another country. 
“If you talk to anyone in Hamtramck,” Mayor Karen Majewski said, “the first thing they’ll tell you is we welcome everybody.” 
That wasn’t always true. In 1971, after a three-week trial, a federal judge said Hamtramck had a clear strategy when it demolished housing in poor neighborhoods. Blacks were 
14.5 percent of Hamtramck’s popu­lation in 1960, but only 8.5 percent six years later, noted Damon Keith, now a judge on the 6th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. 

page 6 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, January 19, 2010 

Add yourexperience 
to ours. 
When people with unique backgrounds come together, new ideas emerge. And that’s the way we like it. So if you think your background is too different to work at Goldman Sachs, we beg to differ. In fact, we think it’s an asset. Learn more at gs.com/careers 
Please join us for the following event at the University of Notre Dame: 
Goldman Sachs Summer Analyst Firmwide Information Session 
Date: Wednesday, January 20, 2010 Time: 6:30 pm – 8:00 pm Venue:The Morris Inn – Notre Dame Room 
 Notre Dame Avenue 
Summer Analyst Program Application Deadline: January 27, 2010. 
Apply online at www.gs.com/careers and through your school’s career services offce. 
Goldman Sachs is an equal opportunity employer. © The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., 2009. All rights reserved. 
The Observer
Business

Tuesday, January 19, 2010 page 7 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Airline raises checked luggage fees 
FORT WORTH, Texas— American Airlines said Monday it is raising its fees on checked bags for passengers buying tickets starting Feb. 1. 
The company said it is raising the charge for the first checked bag to $25 from $20 on flights in the U.S., Puerto Rico and U.S. Virgin Islands. The fees apply to passengers on the company’s American Airlines, American Eagle and American Connection flights. 
A second checked bag will cost $35, up from $30. 
American Airlines last hiked its checked bag fees in July, when the price of the first bag rose $5 to $20 and the price of the second bag rose the same amount to $25. 
Select passengers, including first-and busi­ness-class travelers and members of the armed services, will remain exempt from checked bag fees. 
Airlines began instituting checked bag fees in 2008 to help offset soaring fuel costs. They have largely kept the fees in place, even though prices have fallen. 
American Airlines said about 25 percent of domestic customers pay checked bag fees. 
Taco Bell founder dies at 86 
RANCHO SANTA FE, Calif.— Glen W. Bell Jr., an entrepreneur best known as the founder of the Taco Bell chain, has died. He was 86. 
Bell died Sunday at his home in Rancho Santa Fe, according to a statement posted Monday on the Taco Bell Web site. 
The Irvine-based company did not release a cause of death. 
“Glen Bell was a visionary and innovator in the restaurant industry, as well as a ded­icated family man,” Greg Creed, president of Taco Bell, said in the statement. 
Bell launched his first restaurant, called Bell’s Drive-In, in 1948 in San Bernardino after seeing the success of McDonald’s Bar­B-Que, the predecessor of McDonald’s, which was founded in the same city in 1940. Like McDonald’s, Bell’s restaurant sought to take advantage of Southern California’s car culture by serving ham­burgers and hot dogs through drive-in win­dows. 
CHINA 
Journalists Gmail accounts hacked 

Associated Press 
BEIJING — International journalists in China said that their Google e-mail accounts have been hacked in attacks similar to the ones against human rights activists that the search giant cited as a reason for considering pulling out of the country. 
In announcing a possible exit from China last week, Google did not specify how the accounts with its Gmail e-mail service were hacked into or by whom. Information since then has trickled out. 
The Foreign Correspondents’ Club of China sent an e-mail Monday to its members warning that reporters in at least two news bureaus in Beijing said their Gmail accounts had been broken into, with their e-mails surreptitiously forwarded to unfamiliar accounts. 
Although the warning did not name the organi­zations, one of the accounts belonged to an Associated Press journal­ist. 
John Daniszewski, sen­ior managing editor for international news at the news cooperative in New York, deplored the breach and said the AP will be sophisticated attack in through viruses and spy lawyer, on Jan. 7 about an investigating to determine December from China tar-software secretly placed intrusion into her account. if any vital information geted the Mountain View, on the users’ computers. Tenzin Seldon, a Tibetan was compromised. California-based compa-The tactics used against rights activist and sopho-
The foreign correspon-ny’s infrastructure and at the journalists are similar more at Stanford dents’ club asked its mem-least 20 other major com-to those described by one University, said she bers to be vigilant in pro-panies from the Internet, human rights activist. allowed her laptop to be tecting their e-mail financial services, technol-After Google’s announce-inspected by Google’s accounts and computers ogy, media and chemical ment, Beijing law profes-security experts, who from attack. industries. sor and human-rights found no viruses on the 
“We remind all members Google said only two e-lawyer Teng Biao wrote on machine. that journalists in China mail accounts were infil-his blog that someone China-based internation­have been particular tar-trated in the attacks, with broke into his Gmail al correspondents have gets of hacker attacks in basic information such as account and forwarded e-seen their e-mail accounts the last two years,” the subject lines and the dates mails to another account. hit by periodic waves of club’s message read. that the individual The attack made use of a cyberattacks and snooping “Please be very careful accounts were created service that Gmail and from undetermined what you click on, and run accessed. In its investiga-other Web-based e-mail sources over the past two virus checks regularly.” tion, Google said it found services offer, allowing years. The AP, Agence 
Google’s announcement that dozens of accounts of users to set e-mail France-Presse, Dow Jones, Jan. 12 that it might quit human rights advocates in addresses to which their Reuters and other news the huge Chinese market China, the U.S. and mail can be forwarded organizations were target-shocked the international Europe were routinely automatically. ed in September in an business community and accessed by third parties, Another activist said she attack in which viruses cheered many free-speech not due to a security was notified by David were implanted in ordi­advocates. Google said a breach at Google, but Drummond, Google’s top nary looking e-mails. 
Tyco buys out security holdings co. 
board members at both companies, two years. The estimates exclude
Associated Press 
they said. special items. 
NEW YORK — Diversified manu-Tyco said the purchase of Brink’s Brink’s, which does business as facturer Tyco International Ltd. has strengthens its position in the resi-Broadview Security, has 1.3 million agreed to acquire Brink’s Home dential and commercial security recurring revenue accounts in Security Holdings Inc. in a cash-industry. North America with annualized and-stock deal worth $2 billion, the Under the deal, Brink’s share-revenue of about $565 million. companies said late Monday. holders will have the option to ADT, a much larger player, has 
Tyco said it is paying $42.50 per receive $42.50 per share, a combi-more than 7.4 million accounts share for the Irving, Texas-based nation of cash and Tyco stock or globally and generated $7 billion in provider of home security services, shares of Tyco alone. Tyco expects fiscal 2009. representing a premium of more the deal to close in the second half Following the announcement, than 35 percent over Brink’s stock, of its fiscal year, which began Sept. Tyco hiked its first-quarter earn-which closed Friday at $31.42. 26. ings forecast. The company said it 
Tyco, which is headquartered in The purchase will increase Tyco’s now expects to earn between 63 Schaffhausen, Switzerland, said it earnings by 7 cents per share start-cents and 65 cents per share, will combine Brink’s with its own ing the first full year after closing, excluding items. That compares to ADT security business. The deal Tyco estimated. Earnings will then its previous forecast of between 48 has been unanimously approved by increase by 14 cents per share after cents and 50 cents per share. 

page 8 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, January 19, 2010 
Haiti 
continued from page 1 
9:15 p.m. in Regina Chapel in Regina Hall at the College. 
According to Fean, during the Mass students offered prayers and lit candles “as a sign of hope in the darkness and trust in God’s love during this very tragic time.” 
The Mass offered a way for students to send their thoughts and prayers to the victims of the disaster as well as their family members. 
One member of the College community was directly impact­ed by the disaster. 
Slandah Dieujuste, director of Residence Life and Community Standards, has 53 relatives is to watch and not be able to do located in the zone of the earth-anything. We are unable to send quake. Dieujuste recently heard food or money. We just watch in from her rela-agony.” tives confirming Throughout 

one death and four presumable deaths.  “If there’s anything I hope anyone takes  the tragedy, Dieujuste has found comfort in  
“I can’t even  from all this is to  her local  com- 
put  it  into  understand how  munity.  
words. I born in  was Haiti  fragile life is.”  “I am really thankful for the  
and came here  support of this  
when  I  was  9  Slandah Dieujuste  c o m m u n i t y .  
years old. I have  director  Everyone  has  
always consid­ered myself H a i t i a n , ”  Residence Life and Community Standards  been encourag­ing. This is help­ing with the  
Dieujuste said.  pain,” she said.  

“It’s a culture and country that I “One lesson that I have learned am proud of. It’s who I am. I is to cherish those around you. think one of the most devastat-If there’s anything I hope any­ing things for me and my family one takes from all this is to understand how fragile life is. You can lose everything, includ­ing your life, in a matter of sec­onds.” 
Dieujuste encourages students to continue to pray and to donate if they can. 
“I hope students will donate. For those who can’t, I hope they continue to pray. Haiti needs prayers,” she said. “Donations are being accepted through so many different agencies. Anything helps.” 
Dieujuste and her family are working with Adventist Development and Relief Agency (ADRA). For more information about ADRA, please visit adra.org. 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 


Club 
continued from page 1 
could come together and take real steps to become better, more effective agents of change.” 
Reidy said it is critical especially to educate the young people of today to become the future world leaders of tomorrow. 
“Our generation [will play] a huge role in the alleviation of poverty,” she said. 
Reidy, a freshman who wants to major in psychology and anthro­pology, said she found out about the group at last semester’s Activities Night. Interested in human trafficking issues, she plans to study abroad in India or Thailand. 
Study abroad through the Office of International Studies and research grants, she said, is an experience the club works hard to promote. 
“With every effort we make to send kids abroad, we will have some kind of awareness event to promote overseas study,” Reidy said. 
The group is divided into five working groups, she said, that focus on issues in their own spe­cific region. 
The regions include Africa, East and Southeast Asia and the Pacific Islands, Latin America and the Caribbean, the Middle East and Central and South Asia and Russia and Eastern and Southern Europe, Reidy said. 
“[Each group is comprised of] people passionate and knowl­edgeable about their respective region,” she said. “The group leaders have a tie in with each region.” 
IDRC officers plan to spread the word about the group’s mission as well as increase membership over the next coming weeks. 
“We’re pushing harder for new members right now, because last semester helped us not only to pinpoint our identity as a group, but also to see that we can do a lot to help students accomplish their goals and make a difference in the world,” Jindra said. 
Membership has grown, he said, from about 20 members in its inception in September to around 50 now. 
Jindra said the group could be a valuable asset especially to stu­dents now who are looking for grants, internships and scholar­ships, as many such deadlines are fast approaching. 
“We consider research, intern­ships, academic work and service work all great ways of experienc­ing the world and learning more about international development,” he said. 
IDRC will hold an informational meeting today at 7 p.m. in 126 DeBartolo Hall. Students from all majors are welcome to attend. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 


Tuesday, January 19, 2010 The Observer  NATIONAL NEWS page 9 
Scholar urges not to ‘sanitize’ King 
Nation remembers the civil rights leader’s legacy on holiday 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA — A scholar and activist invoked the fiery side of Martin Luther King Jr.’s rheto­ric Monday at the civil rights icon’s church, urging the audi­ence not to “sanitize” King’s legacy or let the president off the hook on issues like poverty. 
Across the United States, Americans marked what would have been King’s 81st birthday with rallies and parades. And days ahead of the anniversary of his historic inauguration, President Barack Obama hon­ored King by serving meals to the needy. 
But in the city where the 1964 Nobel Peace Prize winner was born, it was Princeton University professor Cornel West who reminded listeners that King’s message of nonvio­lence came with a fiery urgency. West delivered a pas­sionate keynote address to hundreds at Ebenezer Baptist Church on the 25th federal observance of King’s birthday. 
West told the crowd to remember King’s call to help others and not enshrine his legacy in “some distant muse­um.” Instead, West offered, King should be remembered as a vital person whose powerful message was once even consid­ered dangerous by the FBI. 
“I don’t want to sanitize Martin Luther King Jr.,” said West, who teaches in Princeton’s Center for African American Studies and is the author of “Race Matters” and 19 other books. “I don’t know about you, but I don’t even mention his name without shiv­ering and shuddering.” 
West also told the mostly black audience to hold Obama’s administration accountable even as they cele­brate his historic presidency. The anniversary of Obama’s inauguration as the country’s first black president — seen by many blacks as part of the ful­fillment of King’s dream — is Jan. 20. 
“Even with your foot on the brake, there are too many pre­cious brothers and sisters under the bus,” West said of Obama. “Where is the talk about poverty? We’ve got to protect him and respect him, but we’ve also got to correct him if the legacy of Martin Luther King Jr. is going to stay alive.” 
King’s youngest daughter, Bernice King, presided over the ceremony with her aunt, Christine King Farris, the civil rights leader’s only living sib­ling. His other children, Martin Luther King III and Dexter King, did not attend the service at the church where King preached, which was packed to its 2,200-person capacity. 
In Washington, Obama hon­ored King’s legacy of helping others serving lunch at a social services organization. Later Monday, Obama discussed the civil rights movement with a group of black elders and their grandchildren. 
“How are you sir? God bless you,” the president said, greet­ing one man among the dozens of people who filed into the dining room at SOME, or So Others Might Eat. His daugh­ters and first lady Michelle Obama joined him. 
Obama spoke Monday evening during a musical cele­bration of King’s legacy at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts. The president said it was fitting to celebrate King’s legacy with song, citing the spiritual “We Shall Overcome” as an example. Obama said music played an important role in the civil rights movement. 
At the White House, Obama and Mrs. Obama sat around a conference table in the Roosevelt Room for a discus­sion with people who had been active in the civil rights move­ment, including Dorothy Height, the longtime chair­woman of the National Council of Negro Women, and Willie Glanton, the first black woman elected to Iowa’s state Legislature in the mid-1960s. 
Obama told reporters the conversation served as a reminder “that there were some extraordinarily coura­geous young people ... who were actively involved in bring­ing about one of the great moments in United States his­tory.” 
Marches and parades took place around the country, including one in Montgomery, Alabama, where King gained renown leading a bus boycott in protest of segregation in 1955. 
Tens of thousands marched in San Antonio, Texas, with some singing “We shall over­come,” an anthem of 1960s civil rights workers, and others chanting “Yes, we can,” the slogan used by Obama’s cam­paign. 
Soldier convicted on crueltyviolationsinIraq 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio — A mili­tary panel in Kuwait convict­ed a U.S. soldier of being cruel and mistreating fellow soldiers, a case undertaken after an Army private from Ohio committed suicide in Iraq. 
Staff Sgt. Enoch Chatman, of West Covina, Calif., was convicted Wednesday on two violations of the cruelty and maltreatment article of the Uniform Code of Military Justice, said Lt. Col. Kevin Olson, a military spokesman in Iraq. 
Chatman was one of four soldiers accused of mistreat­ing others in their platoon in Iraq through verbal abuse, physical punishment and ridicule of other soldiers. 
The investigation was prompted by the August death of Pvt. Keiffer Wilhelm, who grew up in Willard in northwest Ohio. 
Wilhelm, 19, was in Iraq with his new platoon for just 10 days before he killed him­self. His family believes he was treated so badly that he took his own life, but the mil­itary has determined there was no direct evidence the four soldiers’ misconduct caused the death. 
His father, Shane Wilhelm, attended the trial and said he was glad Chatman “got something” but is not com­pletely satisfied with the out­come. 
“We’re glad that he was found guilty because he was there for most of the occur­rences that took place to our son,” he said. “He was in a position to prevent this from happening, and he didn’t.” 
Wilhelm’s mother has said he called her twice from Iraq and told her he was being targeted in his new unit and forced to run for miles with rocks in his pockets that smashed against his knees. He also told his mother that he was being forced to exer­cise for hours and that his personal items were disap­pearing, she said. 
Chatman was sentenced Thursday to three months’ confinement, a reduction in rank and a reprimand, Olson said. He had faced up to 10 years in prison. 
Sgt. Jarrett Taylor of Edmond, Okla., was found guilty in November and was sentenced to confinement for six months, reduction in rank and forfeiture of two-thirds pay for six months, Olson said. 
Staff Sgt. Bob Clements of Eastland, Texas, is scheduled to face trial Feb. 14. He faces charges of cruelty and mal­treatment, making a false statement, impeding an investigation and reckless endangerment. If convicted of all counts, he faces up to 25 years in prison. 
Charges were dropped against Spc. Daniel Weber of Frankenmuth, Mich., who resigned from the Army. 
Shane Wilhelm said Army officials told him that other platoons have taken notice of the case and are taking steps to improve the way officers treat subordinates. 

Brown seeks to create bipartisan support against death penalty 
contentious social issues from question,” Silberstein said. tag of the death penalty and the to Brown’s pitch. Kent 
Associated Press 
abortion to capital punishment The effort has been backed by resulting drawn-out legal Scheidegger, legal director of 

LOUISVILLE, Ky. — Roy — are working together in a Richard Viguerie, a fundraiser process is worthwhile. The the Criminal Justice Legal Brown seems like a rarity — a time of strong political polariza-and activist considered the winding series of appeals often Foundation and an outspoken conservative who’s against the tion. father of the modern conserva-runs up huge legal bills for capital punishment supporter, death penalty. The effort took center stage at tive movement. Viguerie, in a states, which many advocates said most of the costs of a death 
But to Brown, a state senator the National Coalition to Abolish July 2009 essay in Sojourners say is often more expensive than penalty case come from and the 2008 Republican nomi-the Death Penalty’s annual con-magazine, wrote that executions the cost of life imprisonment. “exhaustive investigation” of the nee for governor of Montana, ference over the weekend in are supposed to take the life of In 2007, New Jersey and New defendant’s background and the philosophy aligns perfectly Louisville. Brown was joined by the guilty — but noted there are Mexico became the 14th and should be cut out. with conservative ideology. He’s a conservative minister, the Rev. enough flaws in the system to 15th states to abolish the death “I think those who are falling one of the more high-profile fig-Matt Randles of Headwaters fear an innocent person has penalty. Ten other states have for this line are misguided,” ures reaching out to other social Coventant Church in Helena, been put to death. considered repealing it in recent Scheidegger said. “The death and fiscal conservatives, hoping Mont., and Heather Hass, a for-Viguerie noted that death row years. penalty does not need to cost to create a bipartisan movement mer National Republican inmates have been exonerated Kansas lawmakers have four more than life imprisonment.” against capital punishment. Congressional Committee by DNA evidence, raising the days of hearings scheduled later While there are no hard num­
“I believe that life is precious staffer. They walked fellow prospect that prosecutors and this month to consider abolish-bers on how many conservatives from the womb to a natural activists through how to make juries made mistakes in cases ing executions in the state, have joined the anti-capital pun-death,” Brown said. their case to others about the without scientific evidence and based in part on cost. And a ishment campaign, those 
The Roman Catholic Church anti-death penalty movement. in cases that predate the sci-Duke University professor con-involved say it’s a growing has long been an organized and Shari Silberstein, executive ence. cluded that North Carolina movement. vocal critic of the death penalty, director of Equal Justice USA, a “To conservatives, that should could save $11 million a year if “I am so sick of American but the new effort is trying to Brooklyn, N.Y.-based anti-death be deemed as immoral as abor-it halted the death penalty. polarizing politics,” said Laura bring in other conservatives penalty organization, said work-tion,” Viguerie wrote. “Criminals should be prose-Porter, director of organizing for shaped by both evangelical ing with conservatives is about And as lawmakers continue to cuted,” Brown said. “I want it to the Equal Justice USA. “I think faiths and political ideology. common sense and common slash budgets because of the be life without parole. In the we all have a lot more in com-
Now, liberals and conserva-ground. slumping economy, many are long run, that’s much cheaper.” mon than is ever acknowl­tives — longtime opponents on “It’s not really an ideological wondering whether the price Not all conservatives are open edged.” 

The Observer 
Viewpoint 

page 10 Tuesday, January 19, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Jenn Metz 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Bill Brink Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Aaron Steiner 

NEWS EDITOR: Madeline Buckley 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Matt Gamber SCENE EDITOR: Jess Shaffer 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Ian Gavlick 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Andrea Archer 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 

Theresa Bea Mary Clare Rodriguez AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 jmetz@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4541 wbrink@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 
(574) 631-4324 asteiner@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 
(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jshaffe1@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 igavlick@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Haiti and religious tolerance 
The tragedy that has fallen upon the Caribbean nation of Haiti has been at the forefront of public aware­ness, as horrific images and astound­ing numbers hit us rapid fire via com­puter and newsstand. Many public figures have spoken up and offered whatever help they can. These ges­tures are important because they stir our public consciousness and call for rehabilitation and restoration in a country that already requires a great deal of aid. Much will be needed to make sense of the chaos that resulted from the 7.0 magnitude earthquake. 
Amidst a slew of news blurbs, I found an article highlighting com­ments from Pat Robertson regarding the crisis in Haiti. For those who haven’t heard of Pat, he’s the host of television’s “700 Club” and enjoys procuring apocalyptic predictions around each New Year, which he believes are divinely inspired. Anyways, he claimed the earthquake is a sign of God’s wrath towards the Haitian people for making a pact with the Devil. His supporting evidence was that the Dominican Republic, Haiti’s neighbor, is prosperous because they made no such deal with Lucifer. 
Pat is a face for Conservative Christian America, and has a great deal of influence (GOP Presidential nomination run in 1988). People buy his books, attend his healing sessions and name their babies after him. We live in strange times, but it is our responsibility as educated people to denounce such close minded mes­sages. The true message from the Gospel, and from Vatican City, is to help our wounded neighbors, not to cast more stones. 
Attitudes displayed by Pat Robertson and other self-righteous white men with microphones are eeri­ly similar to those who burnt books in Nazi Germany, and such blatant intol­erance needs to be stifled. They will never stop asserting they are “part of the plan” while they spew out prophe­cy and hoopla, so we must continue to flat out denounce them. 
I met a Haitian priest on an SSLP in Brooklyn, and I have not since met a kinder and more genuine person. These people need our help and hearts, not finger pointing and radical intolerance. 
Mike Hopkinson 
senior off campus Jan. 15 
A time for giving 
My name is Ann Kloos. My brother John Kloos graduated from Notre Dame in 1974. He was, I believe, an editor for The Observer in 1973 and 1974. His son Ryan Kloos, 23 years old, was killed in the Haitian earthquake on Jan. 12, 2010. His 26 year old daughter Erin is in critical but stable condition at a Miami Trauma Hospital. Ryan was visiting his sister, who has volunteered for Friends of The Orphans PNH in Haiti for the past two years. The two were very close while growing up. Both swam for their Universities, UCSD and Washington. Both had applied to and were waiting to hear from medical schools. Ryan was always very interested in Erin’s work in Haiti. He chose that week to 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the 
EDITORIAL CARTOON

University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as 
possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of 
the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, 
Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. 
Commentaries, letters and columns present the views 
of the authors and not necessarily those of The 
Observer. 

Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free 
expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. 
Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include 
contact information. 

Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Jenn Metz. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF News Sports QUOTE OF THE DAY 
Madeline Buckley Matt Gamber Molly Madden Michael Blasco Nikki Taylor Kevin Baldwin Graphics Scene 
“Love is, above all else, the gift of

Blair Chemidlin Stephanie DePrez 
oneself.” 
Viewpoint 

Lauren Jean Anouilh French dramatist 
Brauweiler 
visit. 
They were in the same building but on different floors. Ryan was killed instantly. Erin was pulled from the rubble 12 hours after the collapse. It took 48 more hours to evacuate her to a Miami hospital where her parents could finally get their hands on her. We feel so fortunate to have Erin home. 
These are just two of the tens of thousands killed and hundreds of thou­sands injured. The wait from 5 p.m. Tuesday to 7 a.m. Friday was agoniz­ing for our family. Too many Haitian and American families are still wait­ing. 
The rescue effort is massive. It will take a very long time to unravel and process the physical and emotional damage. Please consider donating to a long-standing reputable organization like Doctors Without Borders, Mercy Corps or The American Red Cross. If you would like to donate directly to Friends of The Orphans PNH in their honor the website is: https://secure.imodules.com/s/769/inne r.aspx?sid=769&gid=1&pgid=890&cid= 1918. 
Thank you. All your thoughts and prayers are greatly appreciated by our family. 
Blessings to us all. 
Ann Kloos 
Saint Mary’s alumnus class of 1973 Jan. 16 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Poets have been mysteriouslysilent on the subject of cheese.” 
G. K. Chesterton English author & mystery novelist 
The Observer 
Viewpoint 

Tuesday, January 19, 2010 page 11 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

Beyond the bubble 
I think the editors of The Observer should be aware that the controversy regarding a recent cartoon has moved beyond the Notre Dame community. A friend of mine who is a member of PFLAG (Parents, Families and Friends of Lesbians and Gays) in Detroit asked me what I thought about the cartoon. I have often used Notre Dame as an example of a Catholic community that cares for all people and discriminates against none. It is sad that The Observer allowed such a cartoon to be printed. I’m going to try to reassure my GLBT friends that it was a mistake and does not reflect the true spirit of Notre Dame. 
Ginny Pauwels 
spouse of 1972 alumnus parent of 2009 alumnus Jan. 16 

WEST VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY 
Going app over new technology 
Discrimination a harsh reality 
Much has been said about the cartoon that was pub­lished in the Observer last week, but one important topic has not received enough attention. The publishing of the cartoon was an act of discrimination because it hurt and harmed members of a minority group, gay and lesbian members of the Notre Dame community. The issue is not whether the creators of the cartoon and those who allowed the cartoon to be published intended to hurt and harm gays and lesbians. In all likelihood they did not — it was a cartoon and not a manifesto. But the reality is that publishing the cartoon in a paper that is widely dis­tributed and read on this campus (and elsewhere) did harm and hurt some gays and lesbians, not in a physical fashion but in a psychological and emotional way. 
It is hard for many of our students (and many of us) to comprehend the harm felt when discriminated against, because many of us have not really experienced discrim­ination. So what is important for all of us to learn about and remember is that these acts, intended or not, do cause harm. 
Gays and lesbians feel demeaned, violated, marginal­ized and afraid when confronted by homophobic acts and expressions. Understanding this simple fact — dis­crimination whether intentional or not is harmful — can have a profound effect on how people interact with those who are different from themselves because most of us believe that causing harm to others is bad. 
David Hachen 
Associate Professor Dept. of Sociology Jan. 18 

Have you ever found yourself needing to tweet on your way to class, but you just can’t get to your phone? 
Well, there’s an app for that. Las Vegas hosted the 2010 Consumer Electronics Show 
Denita Jones
this past weekend where many of the 

The Daily 
technology indus-

Athenaeum
try’s top retailers, such as Microsoft and Apple, showed off their newest inno­vative technologies for the coming year. 
Everything from 3-D TVs to smart phones with built-in projectors to e-book readers with on-screen, note-taking capabilities were presented at this year’s conference. 
After browsing the Consumer Electronics Web site for a few hours, I discovered what I considered to be one of the most profitable ideas at the con­ference. 
According to the Web site, which is produced by the Consumer Electronics Association, the application technology that was originally developed for Apple’s iPhone and iPod touch has caught on and is becoming a trend that other compa­nies don’t want to miss. 
Samsung, Intel and Ford Motor Co. are jumping on the bandwagon, and promis­ing to give us application-friendly hard­ware. 
Paul Otellini, president and CEO of Intel, introduced the App Up store that allows users to create their own applica­tions for devices like the Netbook. 
Manufacturers such as Dell, Asus, Acer and Samsung have already agreed to start integrating this technology into their products. 
Ford Motor Co. also jumped in and has taken the app craze to a whole new level. 
Ford President and CEO Alan Mulally presented the application-friendly "MyFord Touch," a new in-dash, cus­tomizable interface. 
Ford Motor Co. has already announced its Sync SDK platform will be available with Pandora, Stitcher.com and Twitter. 
Ford has also opened its platform to additional third-party app developers for the future. 
According to Ford’s Web site, owners of the new 2010 models can already go to syncride.com to download applications that can provide traffic information and directions for free. 
Simple voice command allows drivers to receive real-time traffic updates, turn­by-turn directions and business searches as well as favorite news, sports and weather information. 
The applications still exist on the user’s smart phone, but the sync technology reads the information aloud, so the driv­er is not distracted from the road. It’s just as simple as downloading an appli­cation from Apple’s iTunes. 
According to reports, since the intro­duction of Apple’s App Store in 2008, users have downloaded more than 3 bil­lion applications. 
Perhaps this could be a reason behind all this application madness. 
It takes a simple device and turns it into so much more. We just can’t get enough of it. 
For Ford, technological innovations like sync may have kept the company out of bankruptcy last year. 
While Chrysler and General Motors Corp. were facing this very problem, Ford relied on its ability to bring connec­tivity to its consumers, saving the com­pany and its reputation. 
As we finish the first decade of the 21st century, we take another step toward the future of technology. 
Although my concerns start with the possibility of how much damage multi­tasking while driving can do, I enjoy the endless possibilities. 
A truly "customizable" vehicle lies just around the corner. 
This column first ran in the Jan. 11 edi­tion of The Daily Athenaeum, the daily newspaper serving West Virginia University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


LOUISIANA STATE UNIVERSITY 
False virtue of sanctity allows abuse to occur 
Two months ago, the Archdiocese of New Orleans and Catholic Charities announced they would spend $5.182 million to help emo­tionally scarred individuals from the West Bank. 
Daniel Morgan
This wasn’t an act of chari-
The Daily 
ty. 
Reveille
In the ‘50s and ‘60s, chil­dren from dysfunctional families were brought to Madonna Manor and Hope Haven. While there, they were exposed to the image of dys­function. 
Four-year-old children were told they were unloved and worthless, nuns dealt harsh 
beatings and priests, nuns and staff members sexually humiliated and abused the children 
they told the world they were helping. 
After announcing the settlement, Archbishop Gregory Aymond said, “The Catholic Church, and I per­sonally, remain very sorry for the pain and anguish suffered by chil­dren who have been sexually abused in the past ... We are com­mitted to the healing of those who have been abused.” 
I certainly hope he was being honest, but his behavior suggests otherwise. This apology only appeared after four years of legal wrangling and, according to some plaintiffs, attempts to suppress evi­dence. 
As a young child, after hearing Stegosauruses might have had a second brain in their tail, I asked my aunt why we had only one brain instead of many spread throughout the body. It didn’t seem fair that the legs had to ask the head for permission to run away from a fire. 
She could have given a biological answer. She could have spoken abstractly about when centraliza­tion is and isn’t a good idea. She could have simply said, “I don’t know.” 
Instead she told me God had made the world the way it is, and it wasn’t my place to question it. 
I was later told the universe is split into two categories: the sacred and the profane. George Carlin’s seven dirty words are pro­fane things of the world. Tiger Woods’ marriage is a sacred diplo­mat from a realm beyond the scope of reason. 
I was told the Catholic Church was a sacred, holy institution wor­thy of my respect. 
This same Catholic Church allegedly kept justice from being served after its representatives abused the trust of children. 
If only this were an isolated inci­dent. 
According to Father Tom Doyle, a former Vatican lawyer, “When abu­sive priests are discovered, the response has been not to investi­gate and prosecute but to move them from one place to another. So there’s total disregard for the vic­tims and for the fact that you are going to have a whole new crop of victims in the next place. This is happening all over the world.” 
This policy was based on a docu­ment called Crimen Sollicitationis that was updated in 2001 by one Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger. He became pope in 2005, and former President George Bush granted him diplomatic immunity from any legal repercussions of his actions. 
If this is sanctity, I’ll take the profane. 
It seems self-evident sanctity and profanity aren’t objective states. Sanctity is nothing more than a conceptual shield limiting the hon­est investigations of curious minds. 
This semester, I’ve striven to shatter sanctity’s spell so we can better understand the universe. If we wish to pursue truth, we should begin by questioning the faith, cul­ture and country we were born in. 
It may be the case we should give respect to organic food, patriotism, the university 
system, circumcision, uncondi­tional love or any of the other top­ics I discussed this semester. 
But this respect should only come after curious questioning proves they are worthy of our intellectual support. 
I had a lot of fun playing devil’s advocate this semester, and I plan on seeing you again next year. 
Let’s build a culture that assumes nothing is sacred. If the Catholic Church had been under more care­ful scrutiny in the ‘50s and ‘60s, innocent children might have been protected. 
A sacred cow by any other name would still taste as juicy. 
This column first ran in the Dec. 7 edition of The Daily Reveille, the daily newspaper serving Louisiana State University. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not neces­sarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 
Scene

page 12 Tuesday, January 19, 2010 

By STEPHANIE WALZ 
Scene Writer 

It’s not just your typical “Remember the Titans”-type movie about friends, teamwork, and overcoming racial stereotypes. Coming out of the shadows “The Blind Side” reveals itself as one of the year’s best films with a refreshing combination of sobering reality and light­hearted bursts of humor and philanthropic displays. Based on the novel by Michael Lewis (“The Blind Side: Evolution of a Game,” see review below), the movie portrays the true story of Sandra Bullock’s character, Leigh Anne Tuohy, who takes in an underprivileged teenager named Michael Oher after and helps him on the road to success. 
Quinton Aaron plays the role of Michael Oher, an underprivileged and unmotivated youth, who is taken in by Leigh Anne and Sean Tuohy (Tim McGraw) and treated as a child of their own. After Oher transfers to the school that the Tuohy children attend, Leigh Anne takes him in after seeing him walking alongside the road on a cold and rainy night in an act of spontaneous charity.  
She clothes him, gives him a bedroom in her home and takes the initiative to help him in school. Upon dis­covering his natural talent for football, the Tuohys hire a private tutor (Miss Sue, played by Kathy Bates) so that Oher can obtain a college football scholarship. After rising above prejudices and judgments, Oher goes on to play football for the Baltimore Ravens as a left tackle, one of the most crucial positions in football. 
More than just a standard Hollywood “feel-good,” inspirational movie, “The Blind Side” appeals to all audiences with a perfect blend of endearing family dynamics, edge-of-your-seat sports scenes and a well-chosen cast by director John Lee Hancock that closely depict the real-life personalities of the Tuohy family. Leigh Anne’s no-mess attitude mixed with her son S.J.’s (Jae Head) similarly straightforward personality give a much needed comedic aspect to the poignant story and balance Oher’s gentle-giant nature and subdued man­nerisms. The marital support and the pure-hearted interactions between the children, S.J. and Collins (Lily Collins), and Michael Oher make the story simply irre­sistible. 
Writer Michael Lewis’ original story follows two simultaneous stories — one involving Oher and the rich but charitable Tuohy family who helps raise him and lead him to stardom, the other focusing on the position of left tackle and its significance to football and the sports-fan population. 
The movie’s main downfall is that it focuses less on the football aspect as it does on the emotional connec­tions and character transformations in the Oher-Tuohy relationship, but the combination of football and family reaches out to all types and undoubtedly tugs at the hearts of its viewers. 
And even though there are a few discrepancies between the book and movie, the messages of determi­nation, acceptance and dreams still ring true and are sure to cause a tear or two to shed from the eyes of viewers. 

Breaking $129.3 million in box office sales within the first few weeks of its release, “The Blind Side” is expected to be Bullock’s best performance yet, proven by her recent award for Best Performance by an Actress in a Motion Picture Drama in Sunday’s Golden Globe Awards for Leigh Anne’s combination of inspira­tion and comedy.  
The film is a rebirth of sorts for Bullock and is expected to be a career-topping hit for her. No matter what the future of motivational sports-related movies may bring, “The Blind Side” is sure to remain visible for years to come. 
Contact Stephanie Walz at swalz@nd.edu 



By JORDAN GAMBLE 
Assistant Scene Editor 

Sandra Bullock 's role as the no -nonsense Memphis housewife who takes in a poor black teenager in the film “The Blind Side ” has already won her a Golden Globe. In her accept ­ance speech last Sunday night, she thanked sev­eral people very pro ­fusely, but left out one im po rta nt person: Michael Lewis, who 
wrote the Sandra Bullock won the Golden Globe book “The for Best Actress in a Drama last 
Blind Side” 

Sunday for her performance as Leigh 
in 2006. 
Anne Tuohy. 
This isn’t 
BLAIR CHEMIDLIN | Observer Graphic 


that big of a slight, since Michael Oher and the Tuohys are real people. 
But he was the one who saw an extraordinary story unfolding and smartly decided to follow Oher and the Tuohys up until Oher’s junior year 
of college at Ole Miss (he now plays for the Baltmore Ravens). 
While the movie focuses on obviously inspira­tional narrative, Lewis’ book is a fascinating dis­section of the business of football, de facto racial segregation in Memphis, the American education system, and how all three of these twisted togeth­er in Michael Oher’s journey from an often-home­less kid to a wealthy professional player. 
Lewis' journalistic style relies on interviews and good old-fashioned digging to weave together the Tale of the Left Tackle (with special appearances by two Notre Dame Heisman winners). For the unfamiliar, the offensive lineman at the position of left tackle protects the (right-handed) quarter­back’s “blind side.” 
Lewis ’s tale starts with the brute force of Lawrence Taylor, the linebacker for the New York Giants, who destroyed the right leg and pro career of Washington Redskins (and former Irish) quarterback Joe Theismann in 1985. 
It then melds into the coaching legacy of Bill Walsh, coach of the San Francisco 49ers and Joe Montana, who had the intellect and audacity to create a brand of football that relied more on strategy than the sheer athletic talent of his play­ers. 
Lewis argues that these two forces — the physi­cal and the mental — had to grow up together, shaping pro football and trickling down to college and high school, to make the story of Michael Oher even possible. 

Lewis’ book would be a wonderful read for foot­ball fanatics, but it is also accessible for the pigskin illiterate. 
The economics of football (both in salary totals and the complicated balance of players on the field) are an important part of this book, and quite a bit of this insight is lost in the translation from multi-faceted book to narrative-driven dra­matic film. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 
The Observer 
Scene

Tuesday, January 19, 2010 page 13 
tor Christopher Nolan achieved a greed and callousness inherent closeness and shot through pas-


By SHANE STEINBERG 
rare balance of film genius that in us all. sionate, understanding eyes, his 
Scene Writer 
pleases the critics and the mass-life, his psyche and his down-
es alike. It’s Heath Ledger though 36. Zodiac (2007) ward spiral towards suicide are 

Over the five-day week, The that overshadows all else with There have been many explored with a beauty that, once Observer will count down all of his stunning, career-defining attempts at chronicling the para-discovered by a wider audience, the movies that made us laugh, performance as Batman’s great-doxical, murderous events that will finally give this exceptional cry, reflect and sit on the edge of est nemesis, the Joker. transpired in San Francisco dur-film its just deserts. It doesn’t our seats — all of the best films ing the 60s, but none, and I take a fan of Joy Division to of the decade. These 50 films all 38. Pan’s Labyrinth (2006) mean absolutely none, have so appreciate this film, but after share an essence of filmmaking Guillermo Del Toro’s largely much as even touched David watching it, if you weren’t genius that were exceptional original, almost-deserving-of-Fincher’s psychological dive into already a believer in Joy amongst the thousands of films being-called-groundbreaking fan the mystery and terror that was Division, you certainly will be. released in the last 10 years, and favorite redefined both the realm the Zodiac killer. This film is shot some of them will one day be of fantasy filmmaking as well as through tense veins pumped full 33. Eternal Sunshine of the viewed as “classics” in film histo-the all-too-cliché and overdone of misleading plot threads and Spotless Mind (2004) ry. So here they are, the best genre of war films. Caught in the dialogue that seems to suggest Charlie Kaufman is … odd. To films of the decade. crosshairs of the bloody Spanish what never happens, making an say the least, that is. His screen-
revolution, Ofelia, a young girl, incredibly tantalizing, engaging plays, like 2004’s acid-trip of a 

40. Dear Zachary: A Letter to a dreams up a far land where she mystery out of what is already film “Eternal Sunshine of the Son about His Father (2008) is a princess and there is no war, one of the great wonders in crim-Spotless Mind,” are wildly imagi-
A cold-blooded murder is what and it’s that child-like quality inal history. native spectacles that lie way out made this heart-wrenching docu-that not only gives this film its there beyond what is even con­mentary not only possible, but backbone but also its brilliance. 35. Inglourious Basterds sidered “out there,” and as such upon watching Kurt Kuenne’s (2009) tend to divide audiences. homage to his lifelong friend, 37. Capote (2005) Quentin Tarantino’s history-Brilliant? Or just crazy? It seems David Bagby, frankly necessary. Philip Seymour Hoffman is bending, tongue-in-cheek WWII there’s no middle ground. As for It plays a bit slow at first, which captivating in one of the best flick about a band of blood-“Eternal Sunshine,” well, it’s just is its sole blemish. As a whole lead performances in recent thirsty Jewish Americans known that — a ray of sunshine in what delectable. Add to that the cher­though, “Dear Zachary” is one of memory as famous American only as “The Basterds” is nearly often times feels like an industry ry-on-top performances by many the most enraging documen-author, Truman Capote. He is pitch-perfect. It loses some of its of the all too predictable. 

of his regulars, and some new taries to ever be made, but at its writing a new book, “In Cold gusto towards it harrowing end, faces as well. 

innermost core, it’s a postcard … Blood,” about the gruesome and it often borders on offensive, 32. The Royal Tenenbaums it’s a letter … it’s an homage … murder of a Kansas family at the but Tarantino and his cast led by (2001) 
31. Punch Drunk Love (2002) 

it’s a chronicling of a good man hands of two petty thieves and Sunday’s Golden-Globe winning Wes Anderson puts a stamp on Adam Sandler’s finest film, who the justice system so terribly death row inmates, Richard Christopher Waltz and a brilliant his films like none other, for his helmed by the brilliant Paul failed, whose son, growing up Hickock and Perry Smith. But Brad Pitt “might just make this style and quirky-bordering-on-Thomas Anderson, glows with awithout a father, can one day upon interviewing Smith, Capote his masterpiece.” Or, since we’re downright-strange brand of sense of curiosity and mind-watch and find out who was the grows a strange attachment to speaking about Tarantino — just humor are his alone. While “The bending confusion that make this man he never got to play catch him and finds it increasingly dif-another masterpiece to put on Royal Tenenbaums,” a film about Ussain Bolt-paced film engross-with. But what sets this docu-ficult to see him die for the his ever-growing mantel. a “dysfunctional family,” or per­ing to the point that turning mentary apart from the rest is its crime, yet his book needs an haps just “Wes Anderson family,” away, if only for a second, climax, and a twist that will at ending. And therein lies the great 34. Control (2007) is laugh-out-loud hilarious and becomes a near sin. Confusing, once shock you, then break you. struggle of Capote’s crippled life: The single best rock-n-roll film clever as a sly fox, it’s no yes, but a diamond in the rough 
the struggle between one’s work, in a long, long time tells the trag-“Rushmore.” That being said, 
no less. 

39. The Dark Knight (2008) one’s conscience and the desire ic story of Ian Curtis, lead singer some of the scenes in this film, 
With 2008’s summer block-for companionship and under-of the 1970s punk rock band Joy such as Anderson’s perfectly Contact Shane Steinberg at buster of all blockbusters, direc-standing pinned against the Division. Told with incredible patented music montages, are ssteinb@nd.edu 

By NICHOLAS ANDERSON Scene Writer  run of his own talk show which showcased brilliant comedy, exceptional guests and promis­ hard-working, everyman stand-up persona whose appeal focused strongly on  mon denominator appeal and whose mind-blowing medioc­rity leaves those with an above  the last five years. In fact, most of them happened before Andy Richter left the show.  
ing musical talent. Instead of  Middle America. Letterman’s  average IQ suffering. Conan is  (It’s at least nice to see him  
By the time a feud in the  letting him leave,  cynical, watermel­ a quick-witted charmer whose  back).  
entertainment  industry  NBC promised him  on-dropping style  writing  staff  has  provided  Conan will most likely land  
devolves into “teams,” I’ve normally lost any interest I may have had in the subject. I would assume that it’s because these teams are populated almost exclusively by giggly middle school girls and lonely middle-age women. See “Team Angelina” vs. “Team Aniston” and “Team  “The Tonight Show” in 2009, the high seat of late night comedy pioneered by the peerless Johnny Carson and kept warm by the vapid Jay Leno. Leno graciously,  Leno graciously, at the time, offered his retirement and willingness to pass the show along.  departed to CBS, where it’s been strong but consis­tently beaten by Leno. The current situ­ation reeks of the same tainted touch of bean-counting suits at  moments of unquestioned on his feet on Fox, Comedy genius including Central or some-Preparation H where out on the [Conan’s] often Raymond, the great expanse of bizarre sense ofFedEx Pope, desk the Internet. Leno driving and humor was will be back at his Triumph the Insult clearly limited by old desk cracking Comic Dog. bad jokes for the earlier timeUpon further another 10 years inspection, cracks and responsibility before maybe  
Edward” vs. “Team Jacob” to illustrate my point. For a moment, however, it seemed there was a team I  at the time, offered his retire­ment and willingness to pass the show along.  the NBC studios. Conan, who only head-lined “The Tonight Show” for seven months, has  emerge. Like much of his audience, I failed to follow Conan to his earlier  to appeal to more people, but the problem didn’t  passing the show along to a by then m i d d l e -a g e d Jimmy Fallon.  
could  get  behind:  “Team  Before delving into the cur- been pushed out  by Leno’s  time slot.  start there.  Letterman will  
Coco.” For those uniformed,  rent drama, it’s best to keep in  desire to return to the spot- His often bizarre  be glad he left this  
“Team Coco” is the legions of  mind  that  NBC  nearly  light and corporate structure’s  sense of humor was  all behind in 1993.  
fans supporting Conan O’Brien  destroyed “The Tonight Show”  desire to make advertising  clearly limited by the earlier  Young viewers will continue  
in the most recent of the Late  once before. When Carson left,  money.  time  and  responsibility  to  their migration to watching  
Night  wars. It seemed easy; I  his heir apparent  was  David  After Leno’s failure at 10  appeal to more people, but the  Stewart and Colbert  on  their  
was a fan of Conan.  Letterman, who had occupied  p.m., he wants to return to late  problem didn’t start there.  Internet browsers.  And NBC  
Conan  deserves  both  an  the 12:35 a.m. spot for years,  night and executives want the  Conan had been coasting on  will have killed the traditional  
audience and support, both of  and  was  passed  over  as  the  money that comes with his rat- early strengths and  an  “aw- late night talk show.  
which he is severely lacking.  new host.  ings.  shucks” attitude  even  before  
Back  in  2004,  Conan  was  In  a  series of back-handed  It looks clear cut; Leno is a  his switch. Few of his memo- 
being heavily courted by rival  deals,  executives  at  NBC  hack who gathers his audience  rable sketches and moments of  Contact Nicholas Anderson at  
networks following a  10-year  offered the show to Leno,  a  through a broad, lowest com- magnificence have occurred in  nanders5@nd.edu  

Observer Graphic I BLAIR CHEMIDLIN 

page 14 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, January 19, 2010 
NFL 

Jets prepare for rematch against Indianapolis 
Associated Press 
FLORHAM PARK, N.J. — Rex Ryan has his players — and maybe just about everyone else these days — believing in the New York Jets. 
The brash, confident coach has pumped up his team all season, and after receiving some lucky breaks to simply get into the playoffs, the soar­ing Jets (11-7) are a win away from the Super Bowl. 
“The fact of the matter is we’re here,” defensive end Shaun Ellis said Monday. “We’re doing good things while we’re in the tournament and we feel like this has been our destiny.” 
They’ll first need to get past Peyton Manning and the Indianapolis Colts (15-2) in the AFC championship, a rematch from a highly debat­ed Week 16 meeting. That’s when coach Jim Caldwell pulled Manning and several other starters in the second half, and the Jets rallied to hand the Colts their first loss of the season. 
Despite trailing only 15-10 when Manning & Co. took a seat, the Jets kept hearing about how the Colts handed them that victory — and sub­sequently helped them get into the playoffs. Now, New York has a chance to silence those critics. 
“This is the perfect script for us, man,” right tackle Damien Woody said. “We couldn’t have asked for a bet­ter script right now, getting a chance to play the Colts again. Everybody was talking about, ‘Oh, you know, they laid down for us,’ and all that type of stuff. Now, we’ve got a second opportunity against the Colts at their place again. This could be a redemption for us.” 
But Ryan said the Jets don’t need any of that to get them fired up for what’s at stake. 
“This is the AFC champi­onship,” he said. “The motiva­tion is going to come from the fact that the winner of this game advances to the Super Bowl. That’s probably motiva­tion enough.” 
The fact the Jets are even in this position can make one shake their head in disbelief, especially when Ryan mistak­enly thought the playoffs were no longer an option after a 10-7 loss to Atlanta almost a month ago. 
The win over the Colts was further magnified when sever­al teams ahead of the Jets in the playoff race lost, putting New York suddenly in control of its postseason destiny. 
“To get to the Super Bowl, no team really has an easy ride,” linebacker Bart Scott said. “If you want to earn the right to go to the Super Bowl, you have to go through teams you’re not supposed to beat.” 
The Jets took care of that, starting with a 37-0 victory over the Cincinnati Bengals, who appeared listless in the regular-season finale. But New York was gaining confi­dence and again beat Cincinnati in the first round of the playoffs. 
Facing a Chargers team that had won 11 in a row, the Jets went out to San Diego and shocked them in a 17-14 vic­tory that sent them to an improbable AFC champi ­onship game appearance with a rookie head coach and a rookie quarterback in Mark Sanchez. 
“We feel good about our chances,” Woody said. “We feel good about going to Indianapolis and we believe that we’re going to go all the way and bring this thing back to New York.” 
That’s the type of culture Ryan has harvested for a franchise that has had little to crow about. After all, this is just the Jets’ third AFC cham­pionship game appearance, and first since the 1998 sea­son. They’ve since had four coaching changes — not counting Bill Belichick’s 24­hour tenure in 2000 — and a few hundred players come and go. 
So, when Ryan came in and replaced the stoic Eric Mangini, and talked about titles and meetings at the White House as soon as he was hired a year ago, people laughed. 
Now look at him. 
“I was just honest,” Ryan said. “I’m not a told-you-so guy — until after we win the Super Bowl. Then, I’ll make that comment.” 
Fact is, Ryan wasn’t afraid to talk about the ultimate goal for this team, which has starved for a title since Broadway Joe delivered on his guarantee in 1969 against, of all teams, the Colts. 
“With Coach Mangini, it was a different type of approach,” Woody said. “He was all about kind of having tunnel vision, looking at one game at a time. Rex really laid it out in front of us: It’s all about the Super Bowl.” 
When the Jets were 4-6, Ryan gathered the players together and asked those who had won a Super Bowl ring to stand up. Everyone looked at each other while only Woody, Alan Faneca and Larry Izzo stood. Not a lot of champi­onship jewelry in that room. 
“You play this game for two reasons, and a lot of people may not agree with it, but you play to win a ring and you play for money,” Ellis said. “Once you get the money, it’s like, ‘OK, get the ring.’ A lot of people get money, but only a certain amount of people get a ring. ... This is a once-in -a-lifetime opportunity, man.” 
NBA 

Mourning-Wade fund raises more than $800k for Haiti 
Associated Press  nity,” Wade said in a release. “Our commitment to this cause  s aid Mo n day in Mem phi s, Tenn. “(An) inhumane atmos- Among the other NBA play­er s announced a s d o n ors:  pledged money f or Haitian relief.  
MIAMI  — With retired NBA  knows no bounds, and we will  phere to where  we  can  only  Gilbert Arenas, Al Horford,  “Since first learning of the  
star Alonzo Mourning calling  continue to accept any and all  pray and do the best we can to  Anthony  Pa r ker,  Ke n yo n  tragedy in Haiti, I  was intent  
the initial  wave  of support  donations throughout the days  assist those individuals.”  Martin, J.R. Smith, Carmelo  on  finding  a  wa y  to  he lp ,”  
“overwhelming,” the Haitian  ahead.”  Mourning was in Memphis to  Anthony, Ben Gordon, Mike  James said. “I feel fortunate to  
earthquake relief fund he co- Mourning spent about 36  r ec eiv e  the  N atio n al  C ivil  Dunleavy, Michael Beasley,  be in such  a  position to pro- 
founded  with  Heat  st ar  hours in Haiti last week, trav- Rights Museum Sports Legacy  U donis  Hasl em,  Que n ti n  vide support and my heart and  
D wyane  Wade  eling  w it h  Award for contributions  to  R i c h a r d s o n ,  prayers contin­ 
a n n o u n c e d  M i a m i -b a s e d  civil and human rights before  D evi n  H ar r is,  ue  to  be  w it h  
Monday that its pledge total has a lready sur-p a s s e d  “It is the most devastating, deplorable images  P r o j e c t M e d i s h a r e , whi ch has worked to bring  the Grizz lies played the Phoenix Suns. Mourning plans to return to Haiti on Tuesday. The Heat  Michael Finley, Chr is Bosh, Carlos Boozer, Ronnie Brewer  “Since first learning of the tragedy in Haiti, I was intent on  the pe ople of Haiti.” NF L p layer s M ichael Vick,  
$800,000. Wade’s dona­tion was a one­gam e sal ary,  I’ve ever seen in my life, (an) inhumane atmosphere to where  hea lt h care t o the nat ion fo r about 15 years. The retired All- have also continued efforts to raise money and collect dona­tions for the region. “The response from our col- and Caron Butler. Many o f the NBA donors so  finding a way to help. I feel fortunate to be in such a position to  Terrell Owens, Josh Cr ib bs, Wes Welke r, Randy Moss and  
about $175,000, while Mourning, LeBron James, K evi n Dur ant  we can only pray and do the best we can to assist those  Star worked at a makeshift hos­pital and assist­ed rescue work- leagues has been overwhelm­ing,” Mourning sa id . “We accept these donations with complete confi dence that  fa r have with played with or are close friends with Wade, who  provide support and my heart and prayers continue to be with  Cl int on Por ti s also gave money, fund o fficia ls said.  
and Chris Paul eac h pledged  individuals.”  ers and first responders i n  Project Medishare will pu t each dollar to quick and effi­ said last week he was trying to  the people of Haiti.”  Welker, Cribbs and suspended  
$100,000, fund offic ial s s aid. T h e “At h letes  Alonzo Mourning former NBA All-Star  the devastated capital of Port­au-Prince get  cient use.” Project Medishare was start­ed in the mid-1990s by promi­ ge t word to every player in the league  Lebron James Cavaliers small forward  N FL playe r D o n t e St all wor th all  
Relief Fund for  b adly  needed  n ent  Mia mi  doctors  Barth  about the cause.  had Twitter play  
Ha it i”  began  supplies  like  Green and Arthur Fournier,  Severa l  other  a  role in their  
soliciting from pro athletes  water, food and medical equip- both of who m have ties  to  pla y ers,  inc lud ing  d ona ti on  amount s,  wi th  
Friday.  ment.  Mourni n g.  They  helped  Phi ladelphia’s  Sa muel  Stallworth saying  on  his feed  
“I  expec te d no thi n g  less  “It is the most devastating,  arrange for him to go to Haiti  D ale mbert,  are  organi zi n g  that he would give $1 for each  
from  my  f riends  and  col-deplorable images I’ve  ever  last week, and the idea for the  fundraising efforts of their  person who was following him,  
leagues in the sports commu­ seen  in my life,” Mourning  fund was quickly born.  own,  and  NBA  itself  ha s  or about $34,000.  

The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

the following sessions): 1) Monday, Business Major wanted for Campus Off-Campus housing 2010-2011, Look again at that dot. That's here. 
Jan. 18, from 3:15-5:15 p.m. 2) Manager ar ND. You will design a Irish Crossings, Dublin Village 2,3,4 That's home. That's us. On it every-WANTED Tuesday, Jan. 19, from 3:15-5:15 marketing plan, hire workers, and bedrooms still available. Furnished PERSONAL one you love, everyone you know, 
p.m. Required new volunteer orien-implement the plan. Great resume and UnFurnished. Hurry only a few everyone you ever heard of, every 
tation (attend one of the following builder opportunity. Salary +com-left. Best living, safety, Value. CES human being who ever was, lived Volunteer Opportunities at the Early sessions): 1) Wednesday, Jan. 20, mission. Contact: Property Management, 574-968-In some respects, science has far out their lives. The aggregate of our Childhood Development Center at 4:30-5:30 p.m. 2) Thursday, Jan. Bettyjo@BoxMyDorm.com 317-0112 surpassed religion in delivering joy and suffering, thousands of con-Notre Dame (ECDC-ND) The 21, 6-7 p.m. If you have volun-679-6082 awe. How is it that hardly any major fident religions, ideologies, and eco-ECDC-ND located on the ND cam-teered before at ECDC-ND, please religion has looked at science and nomic doctrines, every creator and
——————————————— ——————————————— pus is scheduling college students call 631-3344 or concluded, "This is better than we destroyer of civilization, every king 
to volunteer in the preschool and nzavadaecdc@yahoo.com to HOUSE FOR RENT $500/PERSON thought! The Universe is much big-and peasant, inventor and explorer, kindergarten classrooms. If you schedule your time. ECDC-ND is 2 FULL BATHS 4 BDRM **WALK ger than our prophets said, grander, every teacher of morals, every cor­enjoy playing games and reading located on the ND campus on Bulla FOR RENT TO ND** 54650 WILLIS CALL 574-more subtle, more elegant. God rupt politician, every "superstar," 
stories to young children, please Rd., across from O'Hara-Grace 277-8471 must be even greater than we every "supreme leader," every saint consider this two-hours-per-week Residences at the corner of Leahy dreamed"? Instead they say, "No, and sinner in the history of our opportunity. Volunteer Sign Up &amp; Bulla. For more information -gradrentals.viewwork.com no, no! My god is a little god, and I species lived there, on a mote of Times at ECDC-ND (attend one of www.nd.edu/~ecdcnd want him to stay that way." dust suspended in a sunbeam. 
——————————————— ———————————————

——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNat on 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Tuesday, January 19, 2010 
page 15 

NCAA Men’s Wrestling Division I NWCA Rankings 
team points 
1  Iowa  275  
2  Iowa State  263  
3  Ohio State  250  
4  Oklahoma State  245  
5  Minnesota  229  
6  Boise State  221  
7  Cornell  207  
8  Maryland  194  
9  Lehigh  187  
10  Oklahoma  174  
11  Central Mich.  155  
12  Indiana  149  
13  Penn State  140  
14  Wisconsin  135  
15  Kent State  133  
16  Missouri  98  
17  Cal Poly  89  
18  Pittsburgh  78  
19  Illinois  74  
20  Virginia Tech  54  
21  Edinboro  50  
22  Oregon State  49  
23  Arizona State  41  
24  Virginia  39  
25  Nebraska  26  

NCAA Men’s Hockey Division I USCHO Rankings 
team previous 
1 Denver 1 2 Miami (Ohio) 2 3 Wisconsin 3 4 Minn. Duluth 10 5 North Dakota 4 6 Yale 5 7 Colorado College 8 8 Ferris State 6 9 Cornell 9 10 Michigan State 7 11 Boston College 12 12 St. Cloud State 14 13 Union (NY) 13 14 Bemidji State 11 15 Massachusetts 19 16 New Hampshire 20 17 Vermont 18 18 Lake Superior State NR 19 Mass.-Lowell 15 20 Maine 16 


around the dial 
College Basketball 
Tennessee at Alabama 7 p.m., ESPN 
NHL 

Lightning at Rangers 7 p.m., Versus 
NCAA WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 

No. 1 UConn routs No. 6 Duke 81-48 
Associated Press 
DURHAM, N.C. — Maya Moore swished one 3-point­er, then another. By the time her shooting flurry was through, top-ranked Connecticut was having an easy time with yet another top 10 challenger — and there was nothing those noisy Cameron Crazies could say about it. 
Moore hit a season-high six 3-pointers, scored 14 of her 20 points in the second half and helped the Huskies claim their 57th straight victory by routing No. 6 Duke 81-48 on Monday night. 
Kalana Greene added 18 points for the Huskies (18­0), who never trailed, shot 
53.6 percent, hit 52 per­cent of their 3s and used a big run early in the second half to snap the Blue Devils’ 23-game winning streak at Cameron Indoor Stadium in convincing fash­ion. 
“Sometimes, you’ve just got to keep shooting,” said Moore, who was 1 of 16 on 3s in her previous three games. “We were all saying the games before, we’re bound to go off. It’s coming, because a few of us had been off for a couple of games. It was bound to happen. I’m just glad it happened tonight.” 
For the Huskies, who improved to 3-0 at Cameron, the most signifi­cant development might have been the way they showed some long-range touch. 
They were ranked among the national leaders in nearly every meaningful offensive statistical catego­ry except those related to 3-point shooting, making just 32 percent of those shots. 
In this one, Moore missed all three shots she attempt­ed inside the arc but made 6 of 9 shots behind it while helping the Huskies match a season high with 13 3s — including five during the 23-9 burst shortly after halftime that put them well on their way to another blowout. 
“Our guard play was great tonight,” Huskies coach Geno Auriemma said. “That’s how you beat a team that is as athletic and as tough defensively as Duke is. Maya has strug­gled — for Maya. (Center Tina Charles) faced a lot of double teams tonight, so they just weren’t going to give her any room in the lane.” 
“That’s why we had a lot of opportunities to shoot 3s,” he added. “If those don’t go in, we don’t make those plays on the perime­ter, then we’re in trouble.” 
IN BRIEF 
Broncos lose defensive Roddick trips over line Offerman banned for life boss Mike Nolan judge in Melbourne from DomRep League 
DENVER — The Denver Brncos MELBOURNE, Australia — Andy SANTO DOMINGO — Jose Offerman and defensive coordinator Mike Roddick took a tumble on his way to 
was banned for life by the Dominican a first round win Monday, tripping 
Nolan have agreed to part ways. winter league for throwing a punch at 
over the foot of a line judge.
Nolan becomes the third member an umpire during an argument on the 
Roddick rolled to the ground and 
of Coach Josh McDaniels’ first staff baseball field. 
angrily reproached the man when he
to depart following a disappointing The former All-Star, manager of the stood.
8-8 finish. Offensive line coach Rich “Move out of the way when you see Licey Tigers appeared to hit first base Dennison left for Houston’s staff a player coming,” Roddick told the umpire Daniel Rayburn in the face or and running backs coach Bobby official before resuming the match neck with a fist during Saturday’s play-Turner was reunited with Mike 
with Theimo de Bakker of the 
off game against the Cibao Giants. 
Shanahan in Washington Netherlands and winning 6-1,6-4,6-4. 
Rayburn fell to the ground. 
Dennison and Turner were both Roddick was concerned a knee The Dominican league’s president, longtime holdovers from the injury that sidelined him at the end of Leonardo Matos Berrido, announced 
Shanahan era. While their depar-last season might have sidelined him tures were expected, Nolan’s at the end of last season might have the ban Monday. He said the decision 
come flared following the collision, but said against Offerman was made shortly 
as sort of a surprise. he was not injured in the fall. after the attack. 
Nolan, who engineered the “I ran into one of those immovable Fernando Ravelo, general manager Broncos’ switch to a 3-4 defensive 
objects called a referee. He wasn’t 
allignment was McDaniels’ first of the Tigers, said the club will try to 
giving up any ground. I didn’t see 
hire. McDaniels lined up Nolan to appeal the ban against Offerman, who 
him. He wasn’t really trying to do 
help revamp what had been a had a contract with the club for the 
much to get out of the way,” Roddick 
deplorable defense. next season. 
said. 

page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, January 19, 2010 
TENNIS 

Once-retired Henin hunts for Grand Slam title 
she lost 7-6 (4), 3-6, 6-4 to fel-chair umpire in a 6-4, 6-4, 3-6, 
Associated Press 
low Russian Maria Kirilenko. 6-2 win over American Michael 

MELBOURNE — Justine Sharapova was unable to Russell. Henin’s new, philosophical out-defend her title last year after No. 5 Andy Murray advanced look on life and tennis comes undergoing shoulder surgery in straight sets over South with a few fringe benefits. that kept her off the tour for 10 Africa’s Kevin Anderson, No. 7 She’s dining out more, for one months. Andy Roddick beat Thiemo de thing. Dinara Safina, who lost last Bakker of the Netherlands 6-1, 
The relentless intensity that year’s final to Serena Williams, 6-4, 6-4, and 2007 finalist characterized the diminutive and No. 3 Svetlana Kuznetsova, Fernando Gonzalez of Chile Belgian as she won seven the reigning French Open also advanced. Grand Slam singles titles champion, advanced in straight Croatia’s Ivo Karlovic ousted before retiring 20 months ago sets. No. 13 Radek Stepanek of the has given way to a more self-Henin comes across as more Czech Republic. assured, open manner in her relaxed, more content in her-Roddick’s friend and former second coming to the game. self. She’s more inclined to talk housemate Mardy Fish was 
“I’m a little less superstitious openly about issues beyond the hoping his recovery from a about the past,” Henin said court, comfortable laughing out knee injury would be aided by after her 6-4, 6-3 win over fel-loud. the typically hot conditions in low Belgian Kirsten Flipkens to “First round in a Grand Slam Melbourne. But on a cool, the Australian Open on is something that I hate, and windy and wet day, he was Monday. “I’ve tested a different usually the first week. But this blown out 6-2, 1-6, 6-3, 6-3 by restaurant every day since I’ve week is going to be special,” wild-card entry Andrey arrived — that never happened she said. “I don’t live anymore Golubev of Kazakhstan. in the past. like in the past — it’s very good Federer is in action Tuesday 
“I feel like I’ve evolved,” she because that doesn’t help in against Igor Andreev of Russia added, laughing, “and there life.” at Rod Laver Arena, while are things that don’t have a On a gray, rainy day in 2008 champion Novak Djokovic role in success or failure.” Melbourne, only 26 of the 64 has the last of five scheduled 
Henin is still driven by a scheduled matches were com-matches at Hisense Arena, the challenge, and that’s what pleted — another 12 matches second covered court at brought her back to Melbourne started but were suspended. Melbourne Park. Park for her first major since a Defending champion Rafael Serena Williams will open quarterfinal loss to Maria Nadal was among the last to her title defense against Sharapova at the 2008 finish, coming back from a Urszula Radwanska. her earliest Grand Slam prizes. lies. Australian Open. break down in the first set to With Clijsters and Henin back Now she wants a shot at “I want to improve my game 
Unranked and playing as a beat Australia’s Peter Luczak in the draw, there’s more com-Wimbledon, so her game is and get better than the past wild card entry, Henin will now 7-6 (0), 6-1, 6-4. Now that his petition for Williams. Potential evolving along with her whole because I love challenges,” play a second-round match photograph is on the wall of for more tension. attitude. Henin said. “The good thing is against fifth-seeded Elena champions here, he’s assured Henin said she had success at She’s coming to the net and that I don’t feel old yet. Even if Dementieva, who won the of a match on the covered a young age because she was ramping up her first serve in a when I came here I realized it Olympic gold medal in Beijing courts and there’s little risk of so disciplined and regimented bid to win points quickly and was six years ago I won the only a few months after Henin his matches being postponed in her preparation, but the nar-not have to endure so many Australian Open. It did hit me a retired in May 2008, opting not from one day to the next. row focus cost her. grinding, energy sapping ral-little bit.” to defend her French Open and “I feel lucky to finish my “At 25 I was feeling at the Olympic titles. match today,” Nadal said. end of my first career quite, 
A win over Dementieva could “That’s important. I was a lot whew, tired and I need some put her on course for a quar-of times in the other situation.” air,” she said. “You’re not able terfinal against fellow Belgian Nadal beat Roger Federer in at that age to take the distance Kim Clijsters, whose win at the five sets in the final here last you need to understand that, 
U.S. Open last September in year to claim his sixth major yeah, there is something else only her third tournament out and his first on hardcourts. He than tennis, really to find a of retirement inspired Henin’s hasn’t added one since, while good stability.” comeback. Federer won the French Open Clijsters and Henin both quit 
Clijsters, who beat Henin in and Wimbledon to surpass Pete the tour prematurely. So when the final of a warmup tourna-Sampras’ record of 14 career Clijsters won the U.S. Open, ment at Brisbane on Jan. 9, Grand Slam singles titles. only three tournaments into a won her first-round match 6-0, He was a win away from a comeback after more than two 6-4 over Canadian qualifier 16th, too, until Juan Martin del years off to get married and Valerie Tetreault. Potro’s surprising win over have a baby, it wasn’t long 
Sharapova, the last person to Federer in the U.S. Open final. before Henin decided it was beat Henin at a major, played The 21-year-old del Potro, time to rejoin the tour. her first match here since win-coming to a major as a reign-Her wins over Clijsters in the ning the 2008 title on Monday, ing champion for the first time, finals of the French and U.S. and recorded her earliest exit ignored the pain of a sore wrist Opens in 2003 and the 2004 at a major in seven years when and a disagreement with the Australian Open gave Henin 


MLB 

Players scramble for arbitration 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Players and clubs rushed to settle salary arbitration cases before the scheduled exchange of figures Tuesday. 
At least eight more players reached agreements Monday, leaving 114 set to swap salaries among the 128 who filed for arbitration last Friday. Dozens more were expected to settle late Monday night and Tuesday morning. 
Florida struck one-year deals with second baseman Dan Uggla ($7.8 million) and pitchers Anibal Sanchez ($1.25 million) and Renyel Pinto ($1,075,000). 
The frugal Marlins, under pressure from the players’ asso­ciation, agreed last week to increase their payroll from last year’s $37.5 million, the major league low. Two days later, they agreed to a $39 million, four-year contract with pitcher Josh Johnson, a deal the team still has not officially announced. 
Uggla hit .243 with a Marlins-high 31 homers and 90 RBIs last year. He defeated Florida in arbitration last winter, when he was awarded a salary of $5.35 million rather than the team’s offer of $4.4 million. 
Also agreeing to one-year con­tracts were Texas pitcher C.J. Wilson ($3.1 million), Milwaukee outfielder Jody Gerut ($2 mil­lion), Chicago White Sox pitcher Tony Pena ($1.2 million), Toronto pitcher Shaun Marcum ($850,000) and Cincinnati pitch­er Jared Burton ($810,000). 
Arizona settled with right-handed relievers Chad Qualls ($4,185,000) and Aaron Heilman ($2.15 million), while the New York Yankees reached agree­ments with pitchers Chad Gaudin ($2.95 million) and Boone Logan ($590,000). 
Two-time NL Cy Young Award winner Tim Lincecum could have the most interesting arbi­tration case. He is 33-12 over the past two seasons for the San Francisco Giants and was a bar­gain at $650,000 last year. Eligible for arbitration for the first time as a so-called “Super 2” — a player in the top 17 per­cent of service time between two and three seasons — he is likely to file at well over $10 million. 
Other notable players eligible for the first time include Tampa Bay pitcher Matt Garza, Texas outfielder Josh Hamilton and Tampa Bay outfielder B.J. Upton. Seattle pitcher Felix Hernandez could command a big deal after going 19-5 with a 2.49 ERA last season, when he fin­ished second in AL Cy Young voting. 

Tuesday, January 19, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
NBA 

Ellis’ 36 points lead Warriors over Chicago 
Timberwolves rally from 20-point deficit to down Philadelphia 108-103 in overtime as Sixers’ Jordan feels pressure 
Associated Press 
OAKLAND — Monta Ellis had 36 points, eight assists and five rebounds, Corey Maggette added 32 points, six rebounds and five assists and the short­handed Golden State Warriors snapped a three-game losing streak with a 114-97 victory over the Chicago Bulls on Monday. 
Stephen Curry had 26 points, 10 rebounds and six assists and Andris Biedrins grabbed a sea­son-high 19 rebounds to go with a career-best eight blocked shots as Golden State ended Chicago’s four-game winning streak. 
The Bulls couldn’t overcome their sluggish start and failed to wear down the banged-up Warriors. 
John Salmons scored 25 points and Luol Deng 20 for cold-shooting Chicago, which kicked off its seven-game road trip without starting guard Kirk Hinrich because of the flu. The Bulls were held to 36.5 percent from the floor. 
Golden State dressed only eight players for the second straight game because of injuries. The Warriors were down to four players late in a 113-104 loss to Milwaukee on Friday night. 
Maggette had his third 30­point game in his last four out­ings and fifth overall. 
Curry hit a 3-pointer with 
1:23 left in the third quarter and Ellis followed with a basket in transition, giving Golden State some momentum heading into the final 12 minutes. After that, the Warriors quickly began pulling away. 
Golden State signed forward and D-League call-up Anthony Tolliver to a 10-day contract on an injury exemption Saturday to give coach Don Nelson a little more depth — and Tolliver came out to start the second quarter. 
As luck would have it, he went down. 
Tolliver had six points and eight rebounds in 24 minutes before going out with 10:37 left after bruising his left knee in a hard fall. 
“This is new territory for me,” Nelson said. “We’ve got a bench of three D-Leaguers.” 
Somehow, the Warriors hung tough in this one. 
They got down to four players Friday after Curry was whistled for his sixth foul with 4 seconds left. Curry was allowed to return but Golden State was charged with a technical because of the shortage. 
“It’s crazy,” said forward Ronny Turiaf, sidelined with an ankle injury. “It’s just freak stuff, guys getting poked in the eye. We’ve just got to ride through it and put ourselves in position to be healthy again.” 
The Warriors, playing a rare matinee game in front of a nearly full house despite miser­able, wet weather outside, could use a boost with two games remaining on their sea­son-long seven-game homes­tand. 
Golden State also snapped a four-game losing streak to the Bulls, who had won the last two at Oracle Arena. Chicago held on for a 96-91 overtime victory at home on Dec. 11. 
Biedrins’ big day on the boards helped the Warriors to a 57-53 rebounding advantage. The Bulls had outrebounded their opponents in eight of pre­vious 10 games and led the NBA coming in with a 45.4 rebound­ing average per game. 
The Warriors got off to a nice start by hitting nine of their first 14 shots for a 25-14 lead late in the opening quarter. But Golden State let the Bulls back in it in the second period and held a 54-53 halftime lead. 
Timberwolves 108, Sixers 103 
Jonny Flynn had a career-high 29 points and nine assists and the Minnesota Timberwolves rallied from 20 points down to beat the Philadelphia 76ers in overtime on Monday. 
Al Jefferson added 23 points and 13 rebounds to help the Timberwolves complete their biggest comeback of the season against the stunned Sixers. 
Andre Iguodala had 17 points, seven rebounds and five assists for the Sixers but missed a jumper at the buzzer that would have given Philadelphia the win in regulation. 
Flynn had four points and a key steal in the first minute of the extra period to get the Wolves on track for just their ninth victory of the season. 
Minnesota trailed by 17 points at halftime, but Ryan Gomes scored 14 of his 16 points in a 33-18 third quarter to get the Wolves back in the game. Damien Wilkins added 13 points and 10 rebounds for the Wolves. 
Willie Green scored 16 points and Allen Iverson had 11 points and nine assists, but hardly played in the fourth quarter and overtime for Philadelphia. 
Now, 76ers coach Eddie Jordan really might start feeling the heat. Team president Ed Stefanski recently refused to guarantee Jordan would last the entire season, and this col­lapse against the worst team in the Western Conference certain­ly won’t help his cause. 
Philadelphia cruised out to a huge early lead thanks to torrid shooting and another lackluster start by the young Timberwolves, who missed 22 of their first 29 shots. 
The Sixers, who have strug­gled to score points all season long, rolled up 57 in the first half and only the turned the ball over four times to build a 17­point lead at the break. 
This came three days after coach Kurt Rambis said he was “embarrassed” for his players’ defensive effort in a 135-110 loss at Memphis on Friday night. Rambis didn’t even take questions during that brief postgame evaluation and went so far as to have a team spokesman notify reporters before the end of the game that he was going to be ready to talk immediately after the game was over. 
The Timberwolves finally started to play like Rambis wanted in the third quarter. A 13-2 run put them back in the game and Flynn hit a 3-pointer to tie the game 73-73 late in the period. 
The Wolves played without Kevin Love, who missed the game because of an illness. 
Even without their leading rebounder and second-leading scorer, the Wolves outrebound­ed Philly 43-39 and had a 22-8 edge in second-chance points. 


page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, January 19, 2010 


Warriner 
continued from page 24 
intriguing to him too, that we had a lot of success there just like they did at Cincinnati,” Warriner said. “Football is teaching and coaching fundamentals relative to what system you’re in, and the advantage I have of coaching a lot of different systems and a lot of different places and a lot of dif­ferent kids is anything we want to do offensively, I’ll have some kind of perspective on that, and the different issues each kid has. 
“We’ll be able to find ways to make them better.” 
With the Jayhawks, Warriner’s offenses had great success, aver­aging 35.3 points per game from 2007-2009. Under his guidance, Kansas quarterback Todd Reesing led the Big 12 in total offense his senior season and as a result, Warriner was one of three finalists for the American Football Coaches Association Assistant Coach of the Year Award. 
“When I was out there looking for offensive line coaches, believe me, there was a long list that that had a great interest in coming here to Notre Dame,” Kelly said. “Ed stood out with his personali­ty, his quality traits, his reputa­tion in the profession and then the diversity he brings relative to coaching different systems.” 
Warriner will have to deal with the losses of veteran leaders Sam Young and Eric Olsen to his new unit, but does return experienced starters in rising junior Trevor Robinson and fifth-year seniors Dan Wenger and Chris Stewart. 
“Once I have some time on a weekend once we finish up recruiting, I’ll have some time to go over some tape and make some evaluations,” Warriner said of his new personnel. 
In recruiting talent for the future, Warriner said he will be in charge of many of the same geographic territories he recruit­ed at Kansas and years before. Those will mostly include Ohio, Kansas City and St. Louis. 
While he has coached in a simi­lar system the past three seasons, Warriner said he looks forward to learning from Kelly’s version of the spread while also utilizing his years of experience. 
“There’s tons of things I’ll be able to learn and I think I’ll be able to make some strong contri­butions as well,” Warriner said. “I’m familiar though with being in the shotgun, being with three or four wide receivers on the field and not necessarily being concerned with a number of runs and passes but what’s the best way to score points.” 
Contact Christopher Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 
Denbrock 
continued from page 24 
would someday be together here, but I knew good things were going to happen for him.” 
Denbrock’s addition to the coaching staff is consistent with Kelly’s practice of hiring coaches who have worked with him in the past, as the majority of the members of Kelly’s current staff have. 
“I think when you have that track record and that history together, we talked about it as unconscious confidence,” Kelly said. “You don’t have to talk about it. You know what’s expected. And that’s what we want from our foot­ball team. So when you’re with coaches for a number of years, they already know what you’re going to say.” 
Like a number of coaches on Kelly’s staff, Denbrock’s duties will encompass a number of tasks beyond the gridiron. With no official recruiting coordinator at the helm, Denbrock will serve as Notre Dame’s top West Coast 
r e cr u i t e r.  B o t h  K ell y  a nd  
D e n br oc k  s a i d  hi s  b a c k  - 
g r o u nd  a s  a  
football coach  
i n  C a l i fo r n i a  

a  n  d  “I have a quality of  “ I  t h i nk ,  
W a s h i n g t o n will be a great as se t wh e n a t t r a c t i n g  understanding about the type of student-athletes  m o r e t h a n a n y t hin g, I have a quality of understand- 
r e cr u i t s t o Notre Dame. “It’s the con- that we’re trying to attract here.”  ing about the t yp e o f st u -d e n t -a t h l e t e  
n ec t i o n s a nd t he r e l at i o n - Mike Denbrock  that we’re try­ing to attract  
ships that you build with the  Irish tight ends coach  h e r e , wh a t i t t ak es t o b e  
h i g h  s c h o o l  s u c c e s s f u l  

coaches,” Denbrock said. “I here,” Denbrock said. “I do a think they know me from my really good job of bringing time not only at Washington, that information to the ath­but at Stanford as somebody letes we’re recruiting and they can trust what I tell help them to understand them. With these kids, East what Notre Dame’s about Coast, West Coast, wherever, and what that can do for you’ve got to get them excit-them.” 
ed about what Notre Dame has to offer.” 
Denbrock’s recruiting accomplishments include for­mer Irish standouts David 
Bruton, Travis Thomas and Brady Quinn. 
A proven winner, Denbrock is excited to be a part of the Notre Dame community once again. More importantly, he looks forward to working with the current Irish tight ends — and especially returning starter and junior-to -be Kyle Rudolph — in maximizing their full poten­tial. 
“I’ve had an opportunity to talk with the young men in person and on the phone sev­eral times,” Denbrock said. “We’re beginning the feeling-out process of getting to know each other. I think it’s really exciting for Kyle in particular to line up in the scheme that we’re going to run, and the matchup night­mares that he creates for defenses are something that we’re really going to be able to take advantage of.” 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 
Molnar 
continued from page 24 
backs,” Kelly said. “He’s done a great job mentoring quarter­backs in his career.” 
It is not a coincidence that Kelly selected as his offensive coordinator a coach familiar with quarterbacks and wide receivers. 
“I think we all know we’re going to play exciting offense,” Kelly said. “We like to throw the ball.” 
For the past three seasons Molnar was the passing game coordinator and wide receivers coach at Cincinnati. In 2009, the Bearcats went undefeated in the regular season, largely due to an electric passing attack. The team ranked eighth in the nation in passing yards per game, and scored the fifth-most points in the country, at 38.6 points per game. Oddly enough, the Bearcats were also last in the country, 120th out of 120, in time of possession at only 25:46 per game. 
When asked if the low time of possession concerns him, Molnar has a quick response. 
“Not at all,” he said, before pausing and continuing. “If we could be first in scoring next year and last in time of posses­sion, I’d be a very, very happy man … We don’t sit on the ball. We are always looking to score points.” 
Still, Molnar is not about to abandon the running game, nor has he in the past. Last season Kelly’s playcalling. the Bearcats averaged 4.99 “I may tell him I see something yards per carry and scored on up in the press box and we’ll the ground 23 times, compared both really come to the answer to 3.84 yards per carry and 13 that is in our game plan,” Molnar touchdowns for Notre Dame last said, citing their years together season. as the reason for a common 
“We understand the value of a thought process. strong run game,” said Molnar, a Whether it in day-to-day prac­1984 graduate of Lock Haven tices under his own tutelage, or University. “I would be disap-through Kelly’s playcalling on pointed if we went through this gamedays, Molnar is insistent season without a 1,000-yard that his offense will bear one rusher at the running back posi-characteristic usually associated tion.” with a defense: aggressiveness. 
Come game day, the one mak-“We are very aggressive in our ing the decision offensive whether to run app roach,” or throw will not “This really is the Molnar said of be Molnar. Kelly greatest honor that his offensive phi-is planning on losophy. “We are 
I have had in my life, 
calling plays, looking to score while Molnar will to coach at virtually every be responsible Notre Dame.” time we have the for all other ball. Even at the offensive coordi-end of the half, 
Charley Molnar 
nator duties. we are looking to 
How will this Irish offensive coordinator score a touch-affect what down if we can.” Molnar does? This attitude is 
“Coach Kelly is a coach that is a great sales pitch in recruits’ involved in many, many aspects living rooms, and it also dictates of the program,” Molnar said. which recruits Molnar will prefer “What I do is organize the coach-to offer scholarships. es and the practice plan, imple-“Aggressive also means the ment the offense. I teach the type of kids that play for us,” he other offensive coaches what we said. “We have turned down do … My job is to do what he many good athletes that were can’t do because he’s doing so offered [scholarships] by other many other things, but he is cer-schools because we did not think tainly heavily involved in the they were aggressive enough offense.” physically on the field to play in 
From there, Molnar will sit in our system.” the press box on game days, In all of reality, the presumed alerting Kelly to any tendencies skill level of the team he is inher­or advantages he sees to aid iting is a minor factor to Molnar right now. 
“I want to see it with my own eyes,” he said. “I don’t really care to see too much of what they did in the past. I want to see what they can do once we put our hands on them, with winter workouts and spring ball.” 
Molnar continued to talk of the lessons he learned in the past two seasons at Cincinnati, les­sons he said will be valuable in the first few years here. 
“In 2008 and 2009 we were Big East Champions. The thing I learned from [those seasons] is that you don’t always have to have the very best players on the field in order to win football games,” he said. “It’s about play­ing harder than your opponent, and believing in what you do, and really that’s about it. If guys would just [play harder than their opponent], you have a chance to win each and every week.” 
This blue collar ethos should bond well with the Notre Dame traditions that Molnar already cites. He said growing up in New Jersey led to a distinct Notre Dame football knowledge and favoritism. 
“I have followed [Notre Dame football] since I was a very young kid,” he said. “I watched Notre Dame highlights on Sunday afternoons, just like so many other people where I grew up. It was such a source of pride for families who had a son or a daughter go to Notre Dame.” 
His Irish preference nearly caught up to him this past sea­son when Molnar’s 6-year-old son tried to corner his father into identifying Notre Dame as his favorite team. 
“Even the question was asked to me this season by my 6-year­old son,” Molnar said. “He said, ‘Dad, what is your favorite foot­ball team? Is it the Bearcats or the Irish?’ I said, ‘Well Dominic, the Bearcats are the one that pay Daddy and that’s the team I’m with right now so that’s my favorite football team.’” 
“Oh, I thought it was the Irish,” Molnar said his son responded. 
Now, there is no question about Molnar’s favorite team. 
“This really is the greatest honor that I have had in my life, to coach at Notre Dame,” he said. “I am fully aware of the history, the tradition and the legacy of Notre Dame football and of the University as a whole, and I will do my very, very best to uphold that tradition.” 
Molnar’s dedication to the foot­ball program is echoed by Tony Alford, now the wide receivers coach at Notre Dame. Alford is the lone holdover from Charlie Weis’s coaching staff, when he was the running backs coach. 
“I am very excited to work with [Molnar],” Alford said. “I have known Charley Molnar for years, and I coached with him at Kent State back in ’96 and have kept in contact with him for those years. He is an unselfish guy. He wants what is best for this football program.” 
Contact Douglas Farmer at dfarmer1@nd.edu 

Tuesday, January 19, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 19 
NFL 

Bush enjoys postseason success 
Associated Press 
NEW ORLEANS — Reggie Bush got bashful for a moment. 
It appeared Saints coach Sean Payton had given Bush a kiss on the cheek following his electri­fying performance against the Arizona Cardinals on Saturday, and the elusive running back was unable to escape the Louisiana Superdome without being pinned down about it. 
“Oh yeah, I don’t want to admit it, but he did give me a kiss,” Bush said with a grin. 
The outpouring of affection for the first draft choice of the Payton era was understand­able. 
Bush labored through the regular season with a lack of extraordinary outings before opening his second trip to the playoffs with his best perform­ance in more than a year. 
His last comparable showing came on a Monday night in the first half of the 2008 season, against — of all teams — the Minnesota Vikings, whom the Saints will host on Sunday evening in the NFC title game. 
Bush returned a pair of punts for touchdowns in that wild 30­27 loss to the Vikings. Two weeks later, he injured his left knee and hadn’t been the same since. 
That is, until last weekend, when he spun and danced away from defenders during a 46­yard touchdown run, and fol­lowed that with a blazing 83­yard punt return for a score. 


Bush made the long return look easy. Arizona tried to pin him near the sideline, but Bush was able to move laterally, look­ing for a hole, then burst up the middle of the field as if racing for Olympic gold. With good blocking, he had only punter Ben Graham standing in his way. Bush angled right and blew by him before trotting into the end zone with the ball held high in celebration. 
“He’s as healthy as he’s been, and he was something,” Payton said. “You saw it not only on the punt return, but you saw it on the big, long touchdown run. He’s a dynamic player. ... A big reason for our success offen­sively is what he does, not only in space but on the edges and catching the ball, running the ball.” 
Shortly before the end of the 2008 season, with his knee still bothering him, Bush had sur­gery to repair cartilage. The operation included a microfrac­ture procedure in which tiny holes drilled into bone cause a secretion that mimics the carti­lage padding the joint. 
While Bush had recovered enough to get back on the field last summer, he said he did not feel fully healed until recently. 
“It’s been a while since I felt this rested and this good,” Bush said. “I’ve kind of been nursing the injury for the first part of the season and I think coach Payton knew that. We both knew that going into the season and our plan was just kind of try to get me to the postseason and from there on allow me to make plays and do whatever else they ask me to.” 
With the prospect of elimina­tion hanging over each playoff game, Bush was determined not to hold anything back against Arizona. He led the Saints onto the field wielding a black baseball bat bearing the inscription, “Bring the wood,” and ran hard throughout the game, taking on tacklers with shoulders lowered instead of seeking the safety of the side­line as he’s often done before. 
“Feeling this good, physically, you have room for punishment and just punishing the defense,” Bush said. “These types of games are the games you live for as a football player. Big-time players make big-time plays in games like this.” 
Bush led the Saints in rushing against Arizona with 84 yards on only five carries. He caught four passes for 24 yards, including a diving 5-yard snag over the middle on third down, extending a drive that ended with Marques Colston’s touch­down. 
He returned three punts for 109 yards. 
“He understands his role on this team as a guy who will have the opportunity to make some explosive plays in the run game, in the pass game and special teams, and he took full advantage,” quarterback Drew Brees said. 
During the regular season, Bush managed a few highlight-reel plays. One of the more memorable came in Miami, where he scored by leaping about 5 yards, arms stretched out to each side so he could sneak the ball inside the pylon before crashing out of bounds. He had a 55-yard run at St. Louis in Week 10, but was uncharacteristically run down shortly before getting to the end zone. 
TRACK AND FIELD 
High school star impresses early 


By MATTHEW ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
For many freshmen athletes, the transition between high school and college can be a diffi­cult one. But freshman Nevada Sorenson has been able to make the necessary adjustments and burst onto the Big East sprinting scene in the last two months. 
The Sioux Falls, S.D., native was an outstanding athlete on the high school level, setting a state record in the 100-meter hurdles and capturing two indi­vidual state championships. 
“The transition from high school to college has not been seamless,” said John Millar, who coaches the Irish sprinters. “The demands in training and in the classroom are much higher here at Notre Dame and she has had to adjust to both.” 
Sorenson has made the adjust­ments, however, and has had early success. At the first indoor event of the season, the Blue and Gold Meet, Sorenson finished sec­ond in the 60-meter hurdles with a Big East qualifying time of 8.57 seconds. In the 60-meter dash, Sorenson claimed the top spot with a time of 7.88 seconds. 
In last weekend’s Notre Dame Indoor Opener, Sorenson jumped up to the top spot in the 60-meter hurdles with a 8.59-second mark and qualified for the Big East Championships. 
With only one semester of col­legiate training and only two meets into the indoor season, she has already solidified her spot as a contender in the Big East Conference in both the dash and the hurdles. 
Sorenson’s determination and work ethic has made her transi­tion from high school to college much smoother than it is for many freshmen. 
“Nevada has a very good work ethic,” Millar said. “She is a no-nonsense individual who comes to practice and realizes how she has to focus and concentrate on the daily task.” 
Despite Sorenson’s early suc­cess, there is stiffer competition down the road as the Irish begin to face Big East opponents in tougher meets. This weekend the Irish will face Louisville and Michigan State in the Notre Dame Invitational. The Cardinals and Spartans both have a host of solid sprinters to challenge Sorenson. 
“As we get into the competition season, the expectations increase and this will also take some time for her to adjust to,” Millar said. 
Sorenson has shown, however, that she has the talent and the drive that it takes to be successful on the conference level. Her fast start may only be the tip of her iceberg of potential. The fresh­man’s unique combination of raw talent and willingness to improve is a coach’s dream. 
“I expect Nevada to become an outstanding collegiate hurdler during her time here,” Millar said. “She has all the attributed needed to be a successful hurdler and I am excited to see what the future holds.” 
Contact Matthew Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 


NHL 
Blues fall to Columbus as Torres notches two 
Associated Press 
COLUMBUS, Ohio — Rick Nash scored for his 400th career point and Chris Clark notched his first goal as a Blue Jacket, leading Columbus to a 4-2 victo­ry over the St. Louis Blues on Monday. 
Nash’s power-play goal 4:20 into the second period gave the Blue Jackets, who ended a three-game losing skid, a 3-2 lead. Clark, acquired from Washington in a Dec. 28 trade, scored on a jam shot early in the third period. 
Raffi Torres added two goals and Mathieu Roy had two assists 
— the first multipoint game of his career. The Blue Jackets improved to 19-3-2 when Torres scores. 
Mathieu Garon had 30 saves to run his record against the Blues to 9-3-0. 
Keith Tkachuk and Paul Kariya had goals for the Blues, who had their season-best four-game winning streak end. 
Garon was injured in the morning skate when a puck hit him in the wrist; his availability for the game was in question. He had been pulled after giving up three goals on nine shots in a 4-1 loss at St. Louis six days ear­lier. 
After Columbus took a 2-1 lead into the second period on Torres’ goals, Tkachuk tied it when he crashed the net and slammed into Garon, with the puck going off the glove of slid­ing defenseman Kris Russell and into the net. 
Nash then made it 3-2 through two periods when he beat Chris Mason on a quick wrister from a hard angle near the bottom of the right circle. 
Just 1:25 into the third period, Clark was able to get his stick around a defenseman to jam in a pass from Kristian Huselius, who had skated wide of the goal after his shot was stopped by Mason. 
The Blues, starting a three-game road trip, didn’t waste time in taking the lead. 
Just 1:11 in, Kariya settled the puck near the blue line and ripped a hard slap shot that eluded Garon on the stick side for his ninth of the season. 
It was the third game in a row in which the Blue Jackets gave up the first goal within the first 2 1/2 minutes. 
Torres scored after getting a long stretch pass from Russell. Torres battled for control just inside the blue line, then was able to collect the puck and get off a shot from the high slot. 

page 20 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, January 19, 2010 


MARCH FOR LIFE 
Send-Off Mass 
Tuesday, January 19th 
9:00 p.m. 
Basilica of the Sacred Heart 
Bishop Kevin C. Rhoades, Presider 
Bishop Homilist 
Join students, faculty, and administrators, at this celebration of the Eucharist to pray for respect for the dignity of life, an end to abortion, and the success and safe travel of  participants in the March for Life in Washington, D.C., on January 22nd. 
Tuesday, January 19, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 21 
SMC BASKETBALL 

Belles ready for Adrian in conference matchup 

By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s will try to win its second straight road game to maintain its third-place confer­ence standing when the Belles travel to Adrian Tuesday night. 
Saint Mary’s (9-5, 4-2 MIAA) enters the game at Adrian (7-7, 3-3) coming off of Saturday’s 
61-58 win at Olivet. Tonight’s contest is the third of 10 straight against MIAA competi­tion, a stretch that will greatly determine whether the Belles will meet their goals in conference play. 
“This is a very 

“We need to work harder at playing better team defense and not get in foul trouble.” 
Jennifer Henley Belles coach 
big week for everyone in the league as it finishes out the first round of conference play,” Belles coach Jennifer Henley said. 
It won’t be an easy one for Saint Mary’s. The Bulldogs are coming off a tough loss to con­ference leader Calvin in which Adrian hung tough for most of the first half but were sunk by a 12-0 Calvin run in the second half. 


Adrian will look for a similar start against the Belles Tuesday. 
“Adrian is a very solid team with a lot of experienced play­ers,” Henley said. “They do a great job of getting solid looks 
off the drive.” 
For the Belles, they must come out strong right from the start of the game. Saint Mary’s will have an easier time in the game if they can stop the Bulldogs’ offense and limit their excellent guard play. 
The Bulldogs have a strong backcourt featuring seniors Anita Stamps and Jennifer Perrin. These two guards are the tops in scoring average for the Bulldogs. Perrin has led the team in scoring in six games thus far, and Stamps posted a career-high 26 points in an 80­70 overtime win over Kalamazoo on Jan. 13. Both of these guards will prove to be a handful for the Belles’ defense. 
“We need to work harder at playing better team defense and not get in foul trouble,” Henley said. 
Saint Mary’s has allowed 61.2 points per game during confer­ence play this season, as com­pared to scoring 62.8 points per game — a narrow margin between winning and losing games. 
Saint Mary’s has also commit­ted 284 personal fouls this sea­son, 29 more than its oppo­nents. The Belles will look to avoid giving away free-throw opportunities against the Bulldogs. 
Saint Mary’s will take on Adrian Tuesday evening at 7:30 p.m. 
Contact Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 
ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
ND looks to bounce back 



By JARED JEDICK 
Sports Writer 
No. 4 Notre Dame looks to redeem itself in Big East play this afternoon against the Cardinals in Louisville, Ky., after a disappointing rout at the hands of top -ranked Connecticut. The 70-46 loss to the Huskies snapped the Irish’s 15-game win streak to open the season. 
“We are looking to play anybody right now,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “We really need to have a bounce-back game. We need to play a game and then put that game in the past.” 
The Irish (15 -1, 2-1 Big East) will finally get an opportunity to see how they can deal with adversity, as they have not been put in the position to have to recover from a big loss — or any loss 
for that matter 
— this year. 
“We have great leader ­ship on this team, we had a great practice today and we are ready to leave this one behind us,” McGraw said. 
The game against Louisville (10­
Things are still positive as they come into this game, as Notre Dame’s 15-0 start is the second-best in school his­tory. Only Notre Dame’s 23-0 start during the Irish 2000­01 national leading to 
“We really need a 
title season Georgetown was better. game where we can points. 
Louisville is be aggressive “They did having a some-turn the ball 
defensively and
what disap -over quite a bit pointing sea-create some against son this year turnovers.” Georgetown,” after its dream McGraw said. run last year “We really 
Muffet McGraw 
to reach their need a game first its Final where we can 
Irish coach 
Four and national cham­pionship game before falling to Connecticut. 
The Cardinals are return­ing only two of their starters from last year’s 34-5 team, but junior point guard Deseree’ Byrd is sidelined for 
“We have great leadership on this team, we had a great practice today and we are ready to leave this one behind us.” 
Muffet McGraw Irish coach 
7, 2-2) will be the third oppo­nent for Notre Dame from last year’s Final Four. The Irish beat Oklahoma 81-71 on Nov. 28 and lost to Connecticut Saturday. 
“Louisville is a very good team, a very athletic team,” McGraw said. 
the season with injuries. 
“They defi ­nitely are a lit­tle inexperi ­enced at the point, hopeful­ly that is something we can take advantage of,” McGraw said. 
The Cardinals are a strong team 
at home, posting a 5-1 record in Freedom Hall, and will present a stiff test for the Irish, especially coming off the tough loss to Connecticut. 
“Louisville is a very tough place to play,” McGraw said. 
In their last game 
Saturday, Louisville fought a tough loss 60-56 with No. 24 Georgetown, out-rebounding the Hoyas 37-35. The Cardinals were killed by all the turnovers they gave up, 33 
be aggressive 
de fe nsively and create some turnovers.” 
The Irish will most likely look to exploit Louisville’s turnover problems, as Notre Dame is among the league leaders in turnovers pro ­duced in the Big East. Notre Dame is forcing 25.6 turnovers per game this sea­son, including a 28.7 mark at home. 
The Irish have caused at least 20 turnovers in 13 of 16 games this year. 
In their last meeting with Louisville, the Irish used 26 points from Charel Allen to lead then-No. 14 Notre Dame to an 82 -74 win over Louisville on Jan. 8, 2008, in Louisville. 
“They played us to a close game two years ago, and hopefully we can win again,” McGraw said. 
The Irish hope for a repeat of last year’s results when they tip-off at 7 p.m. tonight. 
Contact Jared Jedick at jjedick@nd.edu 




page 22 The Observer  SPORTS Tuesday, January 19, 2010 
Orange 
continued from page 24 
physicality to handle the Irish. Notre Dame had nine first-half offensive boards to Syracuse’s three, but the Orange grabbed 10 offensive rebounds in the second half to Notre Dame’s six. 
“We just need to be more phys­ical,” junior forward Carleton Scott said. “We feel like we had to hit the boards harder. We hit the boards hard in the first half.” 
The physicality took its toll on both teams. Jackson took an elbow to the chin fighting for a rebound and Orange junior for­ward Wes Johnson came down on his head under the basket. 
Rautins scored 21 points and hit five first-half 3-pointers and Johnson led the Orange with 22 points. 
Junior forward Tim Abromaitis made five 3-pointers and finished with 26 points. 
Notre Dame trailed 55-53 after Jackson made two foul shots fol­lowing the elbow with 9:47 left in the game, but turned the ball over on its next possession. The Irish stayed within as few as five with 3:21 left when Abromaitis hit two 3s in just over a minute, but Notre Dame couldn’t get any closer. 
“I think it’s something I wanted to come out ready to get those open looks against the zone and really knock them down,” Abromaitis said. “Tory did a good job of penetrating and getting gin the lane and finding open guys, whether it was me or ‘Gody.” 
Jackson sliced in and out of the Orange 2-3 zone, finding the other players on the perimeter amidst a tangle of athletic bodies in the paint. His 15 assists were the most in a Big East game this season. 
“He did a tremendous job,” Orange coach Jim Boeheim said. “He got in when there was almost no room and got the pass off.” 
Rautins’ hot start had Brey playing with his defense. He switched to man-to-man to con­test the shots, but then Syracuse’s big inside men, senior forward Arinze Onuaku and jun­ior forward Rick Jackson, started scoring. The early deficit com­bined with the Orange zone made life difficult for the Irish. 
“You kind of got to get the lead,” Brey said. “If we get the lead the karma changes a bit.” 
Abromaitis dialed it up to start the second half, scoring eight points in the first eight minutes. 
Syracuse was in the double bonus with six minutes remain­ing and hit its free throws down the stretch to keep its lead. They made 10 free throws in the final 6:11. 
“We had a chance. We missed a couple big shots,” Jackson said. “That’s what’s so good about the Big East, you can’t dwell on one loss at all. You got great teams coming at you.” 
Contact Bill Brink at wbrink@nd.edu 

Depth 
continued from page 24 
The Irish, however, are a little short on scorers. Outside of Harangody and Abromaitis, Notre Dame shot just 4-for-25 from the floor. Ben Hansbrough has provided balance to the offense at times, but the consis­tent weapons needed to beat elite teams simply aren’t on the roster. 
The lack of depth on the Irish squad is also proving deadly down the stretch of games. 
Harangody, Hansbrough, Abromaitis and Jackson all played more than 30 minutes against Syracuse, and it showed down the stretch. 
Notre Dame has heart, and enough competitiveness and toughness to hang with elite teams. They had more offensive rebounds than an extremely aggressive and long Syracuse team, and at one point kept out-hustling the Orange so much it looked like Jim Boeheim’s head might explode. 
But down the stretch the Irish are at a physical disadvantage, and it has allowed teams like the Orange and UConn to pull away late. 
Even in the team’s best win of the year, an upset of West Virginia, Notre Dame came within a last-second miss of blowing a 20-point halftime lead while fading down the stretch. 
The seven-man rotation sim­ply can’t survive the grueling Big East schedule. Maybe Brey is playing so few players out of a lack of better options, but it seems like its time to give some younger players a chance at real minutes, if anything to at least save his exhausted players. 
They can’t do much worse than the bench did Monday, scoring just two points in 33 minutes with two turnovers. 
While positives can be taken from the loss to Syracuse, at the end of the game it looked very similar to the losses to Connecticut and Cincinnati, and may have exposed a crucial problem that can only grow worse as the season goes on. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Michael Bryan at mbryan@nd.edu 



Tuesday, January 19, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 23 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 





JEFF KNUREK
WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 
DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer 
Sports 

Tuesday, January 19, 2010 page 24 
MEN’S BASKETBALL 
Out-benched 
Non-starters score two points in loss to ‘Cuse 


By BILL BRINK 
Sports Writer 
Both Luke Harangody and Tory Jackson played the whole game against Syracuse Monday night, but time was ultimately not on Notre Dame’s side. 
“[Syracuse] played like men for 40 minutes,” Irish coach Mike Brey said. “We played like men for probably 32.” 
Harangody finished with 31 points and 14 rebounds and Jackson had 15 assists, but the host Irish lost 84-71 to No. 5 Syracuse Monday. The Irish (14­5, 3-3 Big East) have lost two straight conference games. 
Notre Dame whittled away at the lead for the entire game, but were always at least one posses­sion behind. Transition turnovers and allowing the Orange to grab key second-half offensive rebounds hampered Notre Dame’s chances at catching Syracuse. 
“Sometimes we played fast when it was one possession,” Brey said. 
Syracuse (14-5, 3-3) has won five straight in conference play. The Orange used their size and 
see ORANGE/page 22 

Team fights, but can’t finish 
Mike Brey and the Irish squad were undoubtedly disappointed with their per­formance Monday, but their 84-71 loss to No. 5 Syracuse summed up the current identity of this Notre Dame team. 
The Irish played rel­atively well through­out the game. They fought hard against an elite team that had clear advantages in talent, size and ath­leticism. But Notre Dame currently is dealing with some serious issues, and in order to beat the Orange everything would have to go right. 
And it did not. 
Notre Dame has sev­eral talented players. Luke Harangody, for all the criticisms of his shot selection this season, is averaging a career-high in field-goal percentage and is a surefire All-American. Even in the loss against a deep and towering Syracuse frontcourt, Harangody tallied 31 points and 14 rebounds. 
Tim Abromaitis has also come out of nowhere to become a scoring weapon for the Irish, averaging 15.4 points per game before dropping 26 on the Orange. Tory Jackson is a fantastic senior leader, and dished out 15 spectacular assists. 

see DEPTH/page 22 
FOOTBALL 

Warriner leaves KU to lead O-line 

By MICHAEL BRYAN 
Associate Sports Editor 
After directing explosive offenses the last three years as the offensive coordinator at Kansas, veteran coach Ed Warriner joins Brian Kelly’s staff for next season coaching the offensive line. While Warriner has never previously coached with Kelly, when he saw an opportunity to come to South Bend, he went right after it. 
“It was an interesting process, because obviously the one thing that had to happen was that someone like [former Cincinnati offensive line coach] Jeff Quinn left the Cincinnati staff and became head coach at Buffalo,” Warriner said. “The day I saw that, I said ‘There’s going to be a job open at Notre Dame with Coach Kelly, and I’m interested.’ I was very interested.” 

Warriner said his personal background had much to do with his interest in eventually working at Notre Dame. 
“Being that I’m from the Midwest and my wife and I have raised our family Catholic and so forth, this place has a lot of very, very high interest,” Warriner said. “I immediately aggressively pursued contact with Coach Kelly.” 
Warriner brings 26 years of coaching experience to the Irish and has coached offensive lines in 13 of the past 18 seasons. He has coached the lines at Army, Air Force, Kansas and Illinois, and he said his experience working with the spread offense in Lawrence and many different types of offenses throughout his career gave him a strong résumé. 
“The offense I ran at Kansas had a lot of similarities to [Kelly’s]. I think that was 
see WARRINER/page 18 

Denbrock returns, will coach TEs 

By CHRISTOPHER MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Second chances can be rare in the coaching profes­sion, but tight ends coach Mike Denbrock is pleased to return for a second stint as an assistant at Notre Dame. 
Denbrock coached offen­sive tackles and tight ends under former Irish coach Tyrone Willingham from 2000-02, and now he’ll work under Brian Kelly with unfinished business on his mind. 
“I think I bring a lot to the table,” Denbrock said. 

“There are a lot of positive things that we left here, even though we obviously didn’t win enough games to remain. I think from a recruiting standpoint, I was able to recruit many quality kids here, many of whom ended up being captains at one time or another, even after we were gone.” 
Denbrock spent four sea­sons with Willingham at Washington before going to Indiana State in 2009 as an associate head coach. During his previous tenure at Notre Dame, he developed several NFL draft picks and helping running backs Ryan Grant and Julius Jones become 1,000-yard rushers. 
But Kelly’s decision to hire Denbrock extends beyond his history with Notre Dame. Before working together at Grand Valley State from 1992 -98, the two lived together as graduate assis­tants in 1987. 
“Brian has always been a tremendous leader of men,” Denbrock said. “I didn’t have any doubts about the type of success he was going to have. It’s hard to think back to 1987, when we first met each other, that we 
see DENBROCK/page 18 
Molnar: ‘We love to throw’ the ball 



By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Writer 
Next season Notre Dame will be without quarterback Jimmy Clausen and wide receiver Golden Tate, as both recently declared for the NFL Draft, but the Irish are still going to throw the ball. 
A lot, said offensive coordinator and quarterbacks coach Charley Molnar. 
“We love to throw the football,” Molnar said during his first inter­views with the media at Notre Dame on Jan. 15. “We all know that going into this thing.” 
Molnar was introduced to the media by head coach Brian Kelly on Jan. 15 at Club Naimoli at Purcell Pavilion. Molnar has 26 years of collegiate coaching expe­rience, all on the offensive side of the ball. He has been an assistant under Kelly for the past four years, three at the University of Cincinnati and one at Western Michigan University. 
“[Molnar] has a great under­standing of the offense, coached our wide receivers, has been a coordinator at the Division I level, and will now coach our quarter-
see MOLNAR/page 18 





