the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Transpo modifies weekend nighttime route 
Bus service adds Eddy Street Commons to schedule, student government says it remains popular with students 
By MELISSA FLANAGAN 
News Writer 
After receiving a positive reaction last school year, the Transpo weekend bus service continues to be popular for Notre Dame students traveling off campus this school year, according to Emily LeStrange, student government’s off-cam­pus concerns chairperson. 
The bus service, which began in December 2009, offers free rides to Notre Dame students who leave campus on Friday and Saturday nights. Last year the number of riders was approximately 150 students each weekend, LeStrange said. She expects to continue, and hopefully increase, that amount this year. 
“One great thing we noticed recently was grad students rid­ing the bus,” student body pres­ident Catherine Soler said. “We didn’t know anyone was using it besides undergrads.” 
The route runs in a 40-minute loop beginning at Library Circle at 9:57 p.m. and ending there at 3:17 a.m. LeStrange, along with Soler and vice president Andrew Bell, rode the Transpo bus on Aug. 27 and 28 to see how many people used it and to ask them what they thought about it. 
“We wanted to see who was on it and where they were going,” LeStrange said. “This was also during the time of a lot of arrests, so we wanted to make sure that underage stu­dents were aware of what was going on off campus.” 
Due to the high police activity, they said the number of riders was slightly less than usual. However, LeStrange said this past weekend was back to nor­mal, assisted by the fact that it was a game weekend. The serv­ice is always more popular the weekend of a football game, since it is much harder to get a cab. 
One change this year is the addition of Eddy Street Commons to the route, Soler said. 
“The new route with Eddy Street is really great because it not only allows students to get picked up from an off-campus party, but it gives them a place to hang out late at night,” Soler said. 
Kildare’s Irish Pub, which opened this summer on Eddy Street, and Hot Box Pizza are 
see TRANSPO/page 3 




Bald, beautiful 

By AMANDA GRAY 
News Writer 
Roughly five months after she shaved her head for the St. Baldrick’s Day fundraiser, “The Bald and the Beautiful,” junior Elise Jordan said her morning routine is considerably shorter. 
“It’s growing in a lot nicer than I thought it would,” she said, run­ning her fingers through her short hair. “I get to sleep in longer in the mornings, too, because I don’t have to mess with it.” 
Jordan was one of few girls to go bald last spring for the charity, which benefits childhood cancer research grants. She said she shaved her hair, which reached the middle of her back, for many reasons, but she has also learned things she could not have imag­ined. 
“There’s a lot of pressure placed on young girls and teenage girls. The last thing they should be worrying about if they have this terrible disease is look­ing pretty,” she said. “I hope I can just show at least one girl that you don’t need hair to be beauti­ful.” 
Jordan called her shaved head a “vanity check.” 
“The first six to eight weeks after I did it, I was concerned,” she said. “I kept asking, ‘Is it 
see JORDAN/page 3 


SMEAC Free Store offers used items 
By ALICIA SMITH 
Associate Saint Mary’s Editor 
The members of Saint Mary ’s Environmental Action Coalition (SMEAC) strive to be positive role models on campus by pro­moting the well being of the environment and enacting change, Monica Aguirre, co-president of SMEAC, said. 
“A lot of the time, we are geared toward reaching out to the campus, ” Aguirre said. 
The club hosts several programs and events at the College that are geared to draw awareness to environ­mental issues. One such pro­gram is the SMEAC Free Store, which is designed to allow students to reuse unwanted items instead of throwing them away. 
“We are helping the com­munity, but we are trying to get the campus to help the community more, ” said Katherine Kohler, the Free Store coordinator. 
The store is located in the basement of Le Mans Hall and offers a variety of items including furniture and dec­orative items such as vases and holiday décor. 
“Saint Mary ’s needs to learn about recycling and reusing items because I think that sometimes in our population that idea is lost,” Aguirre said. “If you take something from the Free Store, the owner might see it and that should be OK. Just getting that mentality 
see SMEAC/page 3 

CAMPUS LIFE COUNCIL 
Council discusses recent arrests 
By JOHN CAMERON 
News Writer 
The Campus Life Council 
(CLC) continued to discuss the prevention of alcohol-related problems both on and off cam­pus at its Monday meeting. 
Student government president Catherine Soler began the meet­ing with a recap of the University’s meeting with South Bend Police Capt. Jeff Rynearson Thursday. 
“We basically laid the founda­tion for a continuing relation­ship,” Soler said. “We spoke about how right now, we don’t have a productive relationship.” 
Soler said the meeting was helpful and plans to have ongo­ing correspondence with Rynearson. 
“It was a great conversation, we got a lot of questions answered. We plan on meeting him again,” Soler said. “We’re hoping to get a meeting with the [Indiana State] Excise Police as well.” 
Soler summarized Rynearson’s explanation of the shift in recent years from warn­ings and citations to arrests. 
“The captain told us in the past few years, they’ve gotten 
see CLC/page 5 


INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER Students begin disc golf club page 5  Music under the radar page 8  Canadian freshman makes impact page 16  Viewpoint page 6 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Tuesday, September 7, 2010 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT BRIAN KELLY'S SIGN FOR THE 1812 OVERTURE?
THE OBSERVER 





P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Patrick Sala 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Sam Werner 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITORS: Sarah Mervosh 
Laura McCrystal 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 
SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 
SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Dan Jacobs 
GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGER: Lillian Civantos 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jane Obringer 
CONTROLLER: Jeff Liptak 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Joseph Choi 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 
(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITORS 

(574) 631-4324 swerner@nd.edu, lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews.nd@gmail.com 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 obssports.nd@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 
(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 
(574) 631-8767 djacobs1@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 
observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 

024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer 
Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 
and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 

Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 
News 

Laura McCrystal Sports Kristen Durbin Mike Gotimer Emily Schrank Megan Finneran 
Graphics Scene 
Gaspar Garcia de Marissa Frobes Paredes Viewpoint Photo Ren Brauweiler Coleman Collins 
OFFBEAT 

Indonesian toddler kicks smoking habit 
JAKARTA, Indonesia – Indonesia’s smoking tod­dler has kicked the habit. Footage of 2-year-old Aldi Rizal — who smoked up to two packs a day — puffing away circulated the Internet in May and sparked an international outcry. His parents said he’d throw tantrums every time they tried to stop him from lighting up. 
Psychologist Seto Mulyadi, who took the child into his own home as part of reha­bilitation efforts, said Friday the boy has stopped asking for cigarettes. 
He said Aldi picked up the habit because virtually every man in his fishing vil-
Chris Bell 
junior 
K nott 
Grace Lee 
sophom ore Pasquerilla W est 
Henry Shine 
senior off-cam pus 
Susan Esquivel 
junior Pangborn 

“Ithurts m y “Idon’tknow “Ido not “Idon’tlike it. hands.” w hatitis,is it supportthe use Itreally hurts on YouTube?” ofgang signs.” m y hands.” 
Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

lage in South Sumatra province smokes. 
When removed from that environment, and offered a wide range of activities, including playing and drawing, he no longer had the urge, the psychologist said. 
Aldi’s father gave him his first cigarette when he was just 18-months-old, rela­tives have said. 
Montana teen accidentally texts sheriff to buy pot 
HELENA – General rule of thumb: when looking to buy marijuana, don’t text the sheriff. Authorities said a Helena teen hit a wrong number and inadvertently sent a message to Lewis and Clark County Sheriff Leo Dutton, saying “Hey Dawg, do you have a $20 I can buy right now?” 
A detective pretending to be the dealer organized a meeting at a time when the boy knew he and another teen would be at a particu­lar store. 
The detective spotted two teenage boys and one of the boy’s fathers — who was unaware of what was going on — at the store. He called the phone number three times to make sure he had the right person. Dutton said when the detective showed the teens his badge, one of the boys fainted. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
IN BRIEF 
The seminar “Turbulence Measurements in the Atmosphere” will be held today at 11 a.m. in Fitzpatrick Hall room 258. Eliezer Kit, professor of mechanical engi­neering at Tel Aviv University, will present this installment of the Environmental Fluid Dynamics Seminar Series. 
Professor David Solomon will lecture today at 8 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall room 141. The lecture will focus on the works of Ralph McInerny and is a part of the Catholic Culture Literature Series. The event is free and open to the public. 
Fr. Pete McCormick, C.S.C., rector of Keough Hall, will speak today at 8:30 p.m in the Cavanaugh Hall chapel. The lecture is sponsored by the Four:7 Catholic Fellowship group. 
The Notre Dame Kaneb Center for Teaching and Learning will host a panel dis­cussion and workshop titled “Starting Your Academic Job Search” on Wednesday at 
5:30 p.m. in DeBartolo Hall room 119. A panel of ND fac­ulty from a range of disciplines will share their experiences and suggestions for grad stu­dents. Online registration is required. 
Shakespeare’s “A Midsummer Night’s Dream” will be performed by Actors from the London Stage Wednesday at 7:30 p.m in Washington Hall. Tickets are $20 for adults, $18 for faculty, staff and seniors, and $12 for students. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 
71 66 
70 51 
HIGH LOW 

Today Tonight Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a 

mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 





Tuesday, September 7, 2010 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS page 3 
Transpo 
continued from page 1 
both open until after 3 a.m. on weekend nights. 
After beginning on Twyckenham Drive, the bus route goes to Eddy Street, fol­lowed by Notre Dame Avenue and downtown South Bend. LeStrange is currently working on getting the new route print­ed on large maps to hang not only in residence halls, but also in off-campus houses and bars. 
“I don’t think most people know that you can get on or off the bus anywhere as long as it can stop safely,” LeStrange said. “If you wanted to wave it down on Notre Dame Ave., it would be able to stop for you as long as it wouldn’t be a hazard to traffic.” 
The off-campus committee is also looking into the possibility of running the Transpo service on Thursday nights, which Soler said is dependent on costs. 
“In the fall we’re really trying to just get the word at there that Transpo is still around,” LeStrange said. “It’s a free, safe alternative to taxis and is a great service that student gov­ernment can provide for us.” 
Freshman Meaghan Ayers said she has not yet used the Transpo route, but was glad to hear that it exists. 
“I haven’t gone off campus much yet but when I do I’m def­initely going to try to use Transpo,” she said. “None of my friends at other schools have a free bus service for when they go out at night. It’s really cool that Notre Dame offers it.” 
Sophomore Teresa Goetz said she did not use Transpo many times last year, but she likes knowing that it is an option. 
“Its more convenient and def­initely more entertaining than a normal cab ride,” she said. 
Contact Melissa Flanagan at mfanag3@nd.edu 

Jordan 
continued from page 1 
growing in fast enough?’” 
She said she met new people while on campus this summer, and they were all curious about her hair and the charity. A sum­mer vacation at a family home in Vancouver, British Columbia, also proved interesting — many fami­ly friends asked her about her shortened hair. 
“People were really supportive. I’ve had a lot of positive feedback from people,” she said. “I’ve had guys say it looks better shorter.” 
Her hairstyle continues to make an impact; she still receives checks in the mail for donations for the charity. 
“People are intrigued by the entire event,” she said. “It’s a three-day event on campus, but it spans the entire year. We can still raise money.” 
She said she is unsure of how much money she raised person­ally, but she believes the event raised over $40,000 for the char­ity. 
“I don’t know how much I made,” she said. “I did online donations and have had extra money donated after. I don’t real­ly care — it was all about how much we raised in total.” 
To anyone considering shaving their hair for the charity, she said it requires some thought. 
“Take your time,” she said. “It was very different. Some days I wanted my hair back. But it’s all about confidence. You’ve got to remember you did it for a good cause. It changed how I see myself.” 
She also cited her mom, a physician, as inspiration — or, more specifically, her mom’s patients. 
“She’s had tons of women come back in who went through chemo and were in remission with can­cer again,” she said. “The first thing they say is they don’t want to do chemo again — they want to keep their hair.” 
While she’s uncertain if she’s going to grow her hair out or keep it short, Jordan said it’s a theoretical, and literal, weight off her shoulders. 
“It’s something so stupid. Why should your hair define you?” she said. “Some of my friends have long hair. I have short hair. There are a lot of things more impor­tant than a head of hair.” 
Contact Amanda Gray at agray3@nd.edu 
SMEAC 
continued from page 1 
that it doesn ’t have to be new.” 
The Free Store, which will now be open 24 hours, host­ed its grand opening Sunday from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. 
“Instead of having to go out and buy bookshelves and 
other stuff, you can come here and get it for free, which will save money and save the environment,” said Ellen Huelsmann, vice presi­dent of SMEAC. 
The Free Store accepts almost all items that are in good condition, Kohler said. 
According to Aguirre, the club is planning other activi­ties as well. A tie-dying event is currently in the works; stu­dents will be invited to bring an old shirt, tie-dye it and keep it. 
Another event SMEAC sponsors is Weigh Your Waste, an annual event that measures the amount of food students, faculty and staff dispose of during a single lunch period, will be held again this year. 
“That [Weigh Your Waste] has the potential to have the most impact because when you see that we we’ve wasted in one lunch period 150 pounds a day, which could be equivalent to over 500 pounds a day, this is fact,” Aguirre said. 
Other events include Race to Recycling, a competition in which two people sort through trashcans and deter­mine what can and cannot be recycled. 
In addition, Aguirre said SMEAC is planning on mak­ing this year’s Earth Week bigger and better. 
The club meets weekly to plan activities and discuss how to get students involved. 
“It’s only an hour commit­ment, but what the campus gets back from everybody getting involved is a lot because we’re changing the ideas on campus,” Kohler said. “If you care about it, do something.” 
Contact Alicia Smith at asmith01@saintmarys.edu 

page 4 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT Tuesday, September 7, 2010 page 5 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Tuesday, September 7, 2010 

CLC 
continued from page 1 
much more assistance from the excise police,” Soler said. “Years ago it could have been a knock on your door, ‘Please turn down the music,’ because they didn’t have the manpower.” 
Student body vice president Andrew Bell said the recent police activity was associated with this extra assistance from the excise police. 
“There was nothing said about a change in student behavior or a change in policy,” Bell said. “It focused mostly on the expanded number of those enforcing it.” 
Soler said the police consider it a risk to allow students to leave parties after they’ve been drink­ing, which results in officers becoming more inclined to arrest rather than simply issue a cita­tion. 
“There’s been lawsuits with the city so now releasing a student with a citation creates a liability. Taking them to jail can be seen as part of the process of keeping them safe,” Soler said. “I know as students we usually don’t think of that as keeping us safe.” 
To deal with some of the issues facing Notre Dame students more effectively and to improve on-campus and off-campus life, CLC will divide into task forces. Each task force will deal with one aspect of student life. 
The tentative divisions are On-Campus Programming, Discipline at Notre Dame, Residential Life at Notre Dame and Culture Shift, which will deal with the changing nature of issues such as alcohol, gender and social pressure at Notre Dame. 


Also at Monday’s meeting, Soler opened the floor to discuss student-alumni relations and possible improvements in prepa­ration for a presentation to the Alumni Association on Thursday. 
CLC members discussed a desire for greater connections between dorm residents and alumni. Denise McOsker, rector of Lyons Hall, cited a positive response when Lyons residents reached out to hall alumnae in regard to the Mara Fox Fun Run. Corry Colonna, rector of Zahm Hall, said Zahm hosted a football weekend event with a pre-game lunch and post-game Mass for alumni and residents. 
“It’s about bringing people in and letting them see what’s going on in their halls,” Colonna said. 
While CLC previously decided against altering its bylaws to include an alumni representa­tive, multiple members agreed the council could do more to improve alumni relations. 
“We need to find a way to tap into the potential of the Alumni Association,” said Fr. Pete McCormick, rector of Keough Hall. “I think there’s a lot of good will but sometimes I don’t think they know how to express it.” 
Last on the agenda was this Friday’s pep rally at Irish Green. Student government is hoping to institute a new tradition of a 5:45 
p.m. student walkover from the South Quad flagpole, which will be led by the Notre Dame Fire Department, Notre Dame Security Police and the lep­rechaun. 
There will also be a dorm spirit contest judged by members of student government. 
“Whichever dorm comes out in the most spirited fashion ... gets Brian Kelly to come speak to their dorm,” said Mike Oliver, Hall President Council Co-chair and one of the judges. 
“We’ve been looking at creat­ing a new format for student pep rallies,” Soler said. “We really want to encourage everyone to come and participate in the pep rally walkover.” 
Contact John Cameron at jcamero2@nd.edu 
Students start Notre Dame disc golf club 
By PATRICK CRUITT 
News Writer 
While Frisbees are a common sight on college campuses, Notre Dame now has a club devoted to the game of disc golf. 
According to senior Michael Sizemore, president of the recently formed club, disc golf is a hybrid between Ultimate Frisbee and golf. It follows the rules of golf, but instead of using a club to hit a ball into a hole, players throw a disc into a metal basket. The object of the game is to get the disc into the basket in the fewest possible number of throws. 
Sizemore said Northern Indiana is a popular area for disc golf. 
“I’ve played probably 20 tour­naments in the past year, and, with few exceptions, I’ve never traveled more than an hour or two to get to them,” he said. 
The disc golf world champi­onships were held in South Bend in 1996, Sizemore said. There are a few courses in the nearby area for serious and beginning players. 
Rum Village Park is one such course, where Sizemore said the disc golf team frequently prac­tices. He and the club recently helped renovate the park; they moved some of its baskets because there was damage from erosion. 
Bertrand County Park, another nearby disc golf park, is in Niles, Mich. Sizemore said it is older and shorter, and the cost of entry is $4. 
While there are several disc golf tournaments in the area, Sizemore said he hopes to sched­ule more. One event he plans to organize is called an “Ice Bowl.” This type of tournament is held during the winter months. 
“You can’t change the day no matter what,” he said. “Their motto is ‘no wimps, no whiners.’” 
He also said he also hopes to travel with a team from Notre Dame to the Collegiate Disc Golf Nationals in South Carolina. 
Sizemore said for beginning disc golf players, the rules are not difficult to learn, but the hardest aspect of the game is becoming familiar with the many types of discs. 
“There are over 500 different types of discs, and each have a different flight pattern and can be thrown in a different way,” he said. 
For beginning players, Sizemore said he suggests get­ting a basic set of discs: a putter, a midrange and a driver. A put­ter disc looks like an Ultimate Frisbee disc, he said, while a driver disc is thinner on the edges and smaller in size. 
“That’s a little more danger­ous; you can throw that a good long way,” he said. 
Contact Patrick Cruitt at pcruitt@nd.edu 


The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 6 Tuesday, September 7, 2010 
INSIDE COLUMN 

Life lessons 
This past summer, I interned at the South Bend Tribune. I did all kinds of fun things for work, including reviewing an REO Speedwagon concert (ticket list price: $70, my “press pass” price: nada) and spending sever­al evenings inter­viewing women in the South Bend Roller Derby league and desperately wishing I was awe­some enough to join. 
But after work, I was alone in a big, Jordan Gamble four-bedroom house, with only Scene Editor DVR and wireless internet and the occasional false alarm on the security system to entertain me. Here are the life lessons I received dur­ing those 11 weeks: 

1. 
“The O.C.” has not aged well at all. I started recording its reruns on SoapNET, and I would watch them on the DVR when I got home from my internship in the evening. l can still enjoy Ben McKenzie (hot) and Rachel Bilson (hilari­ous), not to mention the fabulous Cohen parents played by Peter Gallagher and Kelly Rowan. Mischa Barton is such a terrible actress, it’s almost insulting, and Adam Brody’s nerdy, proto-hipster shtick isn’t cute anymore, it’s just grating. 

2. 
Those home alarm systems really do connect to the police department. I know this because a squirrel or some other suburban woodland creature once ran into the patio door hard enough to set off the intruder sensor. This was at approxi­mately a million o’clock at night, so of course I woke up in such a confused, ter­rified state that I couldn’t make my index finger push the cancel code fast enough. St. Joseph County police rang my door­bell a few minutes later, and I had to explain to them in a rush that it was not an armed robbery but just a really dumb animal that brought them to Irish Crossings. 

3. 
“The Today Show” can get really awkward in their mid-morning program­ming. I’m not even talking about the fourth-hour, Kathie-Lee-and-Hoda shenanigans, but their stilted segments with the Duggars announcing another baby or Matt Lauer probing the “Jersey Shore” cast about their salaries. The best (or worst) was when Ann Curry “inter­viewed” the Dalai Lama, but really all she did was talk to him like he was a tod­dler. So awkward. 

4. 
“Boy Meets World” is still the best show ever. 

5. 
Never, ever read the Michigan State marching band’s message board. I was trying to find videos of Golden Tate cata­pulting into said band to show my fellow Tribune interns when I stumbled across this site. I then spent the next twenty minutes reading eight pages of incensed commentary from the drumline and lamentations from the piccolos for their “injuries” and their proclamations that Tate would never make it out of South Bend. 

Friends, that is a third of an hour in my life I will never, ever regain. 

6. 
It’s possible to miss Notre Dame even when you drive by it everyday and you run around the lakes a few times a week. 

7. 
In a severe thunderstorm or possible tornado, during which you see the neigh­bor’s tree crack in half from the wind and lightning, the best course of action is not to duck and cover in the downstairs bathroom. You should instead hop in your little white Pontiac and speed over to the only building you can think of that has a basement: the Hesburgh Library. 


The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Jordan Gamble at jgamble@nd.edu 
That’s so college 

As a child, I was shown the movie “Animal House” at way too early of an age. But beyond all of the offensive language, casual nudity and complete disregard for authority, that movie had a bigger impact on me: it Andrew created an image Ziccarelli of my mind of what college was supposed to be like. The same goes for similar types of movies that came out during my form­ative years: “American Pie 2,” “Van Wilder” and “Accepted,” among oth­ers. After all, the characters and story ideas had to come from somewhere, right? 
Well, after having been in school for three years now, I can tell you that college is not like they showed in the movies (not Notre Dame, anyway). At first, I was a little disappointed. Those guys in the movies were having the time of their lives; hanging out with their best friends, partying and not worrying about anything. That is what college was supposed to be. But now, I realize that college is (fortunately) so much more than that. 
College will expose you to people and cultures that you never would have been exposed to otherwise. As a high school student, it is hard to real­ize just how big of a world there is outside your little bubble that you live in, particularly if you’ve only lived in one town in your entire life (like me). People act a certain way, talk a cer­tain way and root for certain teams, and no one questions it. However, even at Notre Dame, a notoriously homogenous school with a relatively small international population, you come in contact with people that pos-
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
sess a huge variety of perspectives on life. I have met people that have been going out to bars since they were 18 (Deep South), people who think the Midwest moves way too slow (East Coast), people who think the Midwest moves way too fast (Great Plains), people who wear coats when it is 60 degrees (Southern California) and peo­ple who think its cool to say “hella” (Northern California). To these people, these experiences and feeling are completely normal, but to me they were all ridiculous when I first heard them. A funny thing happens, though, as you get older: you start to pick up on other’s experiences and beliefs and assimilate them into your own. I may not ever want to move out of the Midwest, but I have at least gained perspective on life and have learned a lot about myself in the process. 
College will make you realize just how unsure you are about what you want to do with your life. I am a rare case, in that I knew exactly what I wanted to major in straight out of high school. Four years ago, I applied to college with the intention of being a Civil Engineering major, and I have never wavered since then. Beyond that, I knew exactly what I wanted to do out of school: I was going to be a project engineer for a construction company after I graduated. But after being exposed to a number of differ­ent opportunities and having gone through a lot of self-evaluation, I now realize that maybe I’m not quite as sure about my life as I thought I was. I’ve been inspired by people that I have met doing a year of service or those that are going into teaching and I have been exposed to everything from business to engineering to jour­nalism. Being at college makes you realize that there is a vast, almost unfathomable, number of directions that your life can go. 
Each of the first two lessons brought me to my final realization: the people you meet are everything. This is a les­son that took me a while to learn, but made my life so much better once I finally did. It is very easy to get wrapped up in schoolwork and other responsibilities all the time and, to be sure, those things are very important. But, at the end of the day, all we really have are our friends and family. I have loved my three years of college, but not because the football team has been good (they haven’t) or because I have enjoyed all of my classes (I haven’t). I’m going to look back at Notre Dame and remember football Saturdays, staying up way too late talking in the hallway with my dorm mates, taking 10 minutes to give everyone the sign of peace at mass on Sundays and the random, spontaneous road trips I have taken. And, more importantly, I am going to remember the people I did all of those things with. Whether you believe it or not, there are over 8,000 life stories to be heard on campus, and each is unique and interesting in their own way. The more you hear, the better off you are you’ll be. And that really is so college. 
Andy Ziccarelli is a senior majoring in civil engineering. He welcomes your adu­lation and veiled threats at aziccare@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 


QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Our feelings are our most genuinepaths to knowledge.” 
Audre Lorde Carribean-American writer 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Love is a snowmobile racing acrossthe tundra and then suddenly itflips over, pinning you underneath.At night, the ice weasels come.” 
Matt Groening
U.S. cartoonist 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Tuesday, September 7, 2010 page 7 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 

A common goal 
Notre Dame has tried to improve rela­tions between the University and the South Bend community for quite some time now. As crazy as it may sound, the recent problems with the South Bend police may be an opportunity to do just that. As much as we complain amongst ourselves and in The Observer, Notre Dame can’t really do anything to change the way that South Bend police have been targeting Notre Dame students. The South Bend community can. If they knew that their tax dollars were being used to break up college parties instead of protecting them from armed robbery, they would probably have some choice words to say about it. If they knew that their law enforcers were patrolling stu­dent apartment complexes to bust 20 year olds instead of their neighborhoods to prevent burglaries, there would likely be an uproar. 
There may be people who do think that the police are perfectly justified in arresting students for underage drink­ing, but I’m almost positive that they would agree with me that since there are only a limited number of South Bend police officers and a very high crime rate (twice as many murders, rapes and robberies as the national average) that they should really focus on the more serious crimes that are harming people instead of “fundraising” by citing students or making them post bail. So maybe instead of grumbling amongst ourselves and writing angry Viewpoints we should let the South Bend community really know what’s going on. Let’s show them the videos of police being aggressive, share the sto­ries of manipulation and exploitation. Let’s write to the South Bend Tribune instead of The Observer (maybe I should take my own advice). 
For once, the University and the South Bend community can unite under a common goal: we all want the police to protect us, not exploit us. 
Shea Streeter 
senior Badin Hall Sept. 2 
UWIRE 

How to use the ‘like’ button on Facebook 
If there’s one thing on Facebook that annoys me the most, it’s the “like” button. No one knows how to use it. It seems simple at first glance, but almost every user interprets the use of the button differently. 
The “like” button can make a Facebook user seem interested in what their friends like, or seem totally insensitive. If you follow news organizations such as CNN or the 
Jon Mosby Weather Channel, you’ve probably noticed that people 
“like” some really weird things. I once looked at a 
status update from CNN breaking the news of a death 
The D aily 

of a well-known politician. There were thousands of 
M ississippian 

“likes”. What do all those mean? Do those people like 
that the politician died? Do they like his long career and really respected him? Do they like that CNN broke the news? 
I once noticed that the Weather Channel was updating its status regular­ly about tornadoes in Kansas. In a status update about a tornado forming, there were hundreds of “likes”. Do those people like tornadoes? Do they like the fact the Weather Channel keep them up-to-date? 
All those “likes” could mean hundreds of different things. 
And what about those status updates from your friends? 
If your friend says, “My professor is so boring,” do you click “like” if you also have a professor you don’t quite enjoy? Do you click “like” if you’ve dealt with similar professors? Will your friend think you like the fact they’re dealing with that boring, monotone professor? 
With all these weird “likes”, there needs to be some sort of Facebook­“like”-button etiquette. 
Here are my rules. 

Never “like” a bad status. If your friend’s status update says, “I just tripped in front of huge crowd of people,” don’t click “like,” even if you think it’s funny. Your like will be interpreted a million different ways. If your friend’s status update says, “OMG…I just bombed my first exam,” don’t click “like,” even if you just bombed an exam. 
Never like a sad status. If you see a status update that says, “Oh, I really miss my granddad, he’s been gone for two years,” please don’t click “like.” You probably want to show your Facebook friend you know the feeling or the experience, but that isn’t the way to do it. I’ve actually seen people click “like” on statuses similar to that several times. 
Call or send a message to your friend (if you actually know or are even close to the person) with that sad status update. 
Okay, here’s the big one: only “like” status updates that you actually like. 
If your friend’s status update says, “I aced my biology exam,” you can click “like” on this one. If your friend’s status update says, “Oh… the Grove looks awesome today,” you should click “like.” 
Stop clicking “like” so much and maybe write a comment on that status update. 
No one can misinterpret your comment. If you say, “Oh yeah man, my professor is killing me too! Everything he says passes right over my head,” we get it. If you say, “Dude…I just bombed the same exam, we need to get together and study or something,” then you’re understood. 
And remember, only click “like” if you like something! 
This column first appeared in the Sept. 2 edition of The Daily Mississippian, the daily publication serving the University of Mississippi. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Dearest SBPD... 
Dearest SBPD, 
I tried to remain neutral during this off campus drunkenness shenanigans. Why did I try to remain neutral? Well, I’m 22 years of age. In most states, they recognize that of being of the legal age to consume alcoholic beverages. However, I learned a new lesson this weekend. My legal buddies and I decid­ed that this off campus police situation has gotten out of hand after a series of events at The Backer. My roommate was the driver for the evening, so I decided to have a very, very good time. However, the SBPD decided that my roommate, the designated driver, should not have a good evening. 
I apologize on his behalf for being responsible. 
My roommate was sitting at the bar, ordering waters for himself, and alco­holic beverages for the likes of me. However, the SBPD decided my room­mate too far gone with the abundance of water that he had consumed at that point in time. Luckily, some other friends of mine had decided that I was too far gone and they took me home. Me, being a drunken lunatic, had made it home scott free. However, my sober roommate had nearly gotten arrested because he had far too much water to drink. This ego-trip of the local police has gotten far out of hand. I can understand when cops yell at me for hitting on random girls that I don’t know. However, when four offi­cers rip my sober roommate out of a bar, I begin to have problems. If these shenanigans continues, then I promise the SBPD that you will meet my sober side, and I don’t like my sober side. 
Michael McDonnell 
senior Siegfried Hall Sept. 4 
Student struggles to dodge ‘free stuff’ 
Upon entering my dorm room a few nights ago, I reached into my too-full pockets and pulled out the contents. 
Inside were a multitude of little pieces of paper. I had three passes to the same event taking place on a night that I didn’t even plan on being in town for, forms to fill out for offers I never intended to take advantage of (I’m in college — I can’t afford what you’re offering, trust me) and other assorted things I was handed all over cam-Virginia Alley pus. 
As I sat on my bed with my pockets much happier and 
The K entucky 
able to breathe again, I crumpled up the sadly useless 
K ernel 
offers and ended their lives with a toss to the trash. 
I love free things. I think they’re grand. But generally, I only take free things that I have use for (e.g., free t-shirts). So in these first two weeks, why do we students return from a stroll across campus heavy-laden with things that would have better served other people? 
It seems to me the blame lies partially on the hander-outers, with their cute children, strategically placed tables and distinct inability to recognize who’s already taken something from them. However, a large portion of the problem lies within our psyche as students. 
If the problem lies with the student body, the issue is that we’re much too friendly. Close your eyes. 
No, don’t, you wouldn’t be able to read the rest of this article. Pretend you’ve closed your eyes. 
You’re walking along, probably past the Student Center. You see the gaunt­let approaching. Maybe you panic a little. Will veering to the left keep him from reaching out his hand? 
Perhaps just keeping your head down will do the trick. You know you don’t need it. As you walk past him you see the smile — they’re so very good at smiling — the fingers handing you that piece of paper to attend that random event that occurs during an hour you have class. But oh, look! Your arm, suddenly becoming an alien limb, snatches willingly, your neck inclining your face to lean up with a warm smile, and voila! Your twenty-feet worth of planning has failed you, foiled by the fact that you’re a really nice person. 
Don’t panic! As atrocious of an issue as this is, there are a few things that can be done. If you are reading this, and you happen to be a hander-outer, I offer a few suggestions. 
Your adorable child is indeed adorable, but she’s handed me 16,000 flyers in the past two days — perhaps a week-long training session in facial recog­nition? 
If that’s a bit much, then maybe you should do less attacking and more passive invitation. If someone really wants that plastic animal keychain, I bet they’ll take it. 
As for the rest of us, more selective friendliness would be most helpful. Taking that little girl’s last free pass may make her smile, but the kid behind you who really wanted to attend that random event is pretty down about it. If you’re not interested, try a friendly wave or smile while speed-walking away. 
For those of us who sometimes can’t resist the urge to grab every piece of paper pointed our way, I promise the paper goods make delightful airplanes. 
This column first appeared in the Sept. 6 edition of The Kentucky Kernel, the daily publication serving the University of Kentucky. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
The Observer 

Scene
page 8 Tuesday, September 7, 2010 


Welcome to this week’s edition of “Under the Radar.” Last week I laid out the goal of letting the music hunters do great serv­ice to the gatherers by letting them know about any band, old or new, that enjoys pleasant success without having, say, “The 
Fame.” 
To recap: hunters seek, read, blog and cull music from radio, print and, most often, the interwebs. Gatherers collect mix CD’s, free digital downloads and whatever their friends happen to be listening to. As a self-aggrandizing hunter, I instinctively take the label of gatherer to be an insult. Interestingly, I’ve heard most from those with an emphatically professed gatherer status. It seems that those who let music come to them are quite content to let it be so. 
This week’s foray into the hunter’s territory features the emerging genre of mashing sounds into a dance-pop mentality. Stephanie DePrez This has been done before, in a million venues, but it seems that a recent growth out of the “indie” mentality has been an Owl City-like affinity for pops and electronic riffs. These three bands come a bit rawer, compound electronic pop and convention-
Scene W riter al instruments into an easily consumable sampling of what, a decade earlier, would have been considered trés avant-garde. 
Goldfish 

Goldfish is a two-man electronica-dance group from South Africa. Their signature seems to be setting a basic riff and lyric structure, and then overlaying as many African/jazz/computerized accents as possible. The song “Fort Knox” is a great example of this. The song “Soundtracks and Comebacks” begins with a lone bass line that will get your feet tapping. Then comes the frenetic clapping. Then comes the radio-static-covered voice, followed by an electronic bleep riff that turns into a flute line. The song is featured on an album titled “South African Pop & Rock,” which pretty aptly sums them up. 
Tracks to Tap: “Fort Knox,” “Soundtracks and Comebacks,” “Hold Tight” 



Passion Pit 
Passion Pit is an electronic band from Cambridge after MGMT’s heart, complete with high male vocals that are vaguely reminiscent of a four­teen-year-old girl (but not in the genre of Mr. Bieber). They fall into “Second Wave Synthpop.” It’s a gathering of urban and electronic aware­ness, along the lines of Hellogoodbye, La Roux, The Ting Tings and Ellie Goulding. Their song “Little Secrets” is basically a reworking of MGMT’s “Kids,” but I would argue a more danceable one. “Moth’s Wings” begins with what sounds like a harpsichord, but then opens into a Coldplay-esque anthem of lush electronics. 
Tracks to Tap: “Little Secrets,” “Moth’s Wings” 
Teddybears 

Teddybears is a Swedish outfit that formed in 1993 as hardcore punk, but has since drifted to the top of the synth-soundscape scene. Their first state-side release was the album “Soft Machine” in 2006, which, though bearing the fingerprints of punk (three chord structure, repetitive chorus), is decidedly electronica, and almost begs to be featured in an iPhone com­mercial. The most delicious track is “Punkrocker,” featuring Iggy Pop. It is a touch Bowie, a touch Metric, and a whole lot of irony. The lyrics detail­ing the iconic “punk rocker” are laid against music that is so full and com­puter-tooled that it flies in the face of the very idea of punk. But it is that kind of blatant irony that Teddybears seems to thrive on. 
Tracks to Tap: “Punkrocker,” “Different Sound,” “Yours To Keep,” “Are You Feelin’ It?” 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not nec­essarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Stephanie DePrez at sdeprez@nd.edu. 

GASPAR GARCIA DE PAREDES | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Tuesday, September 7, 2010 page 9 

The story must go something like this: sometime after being wowed by the success of “Avatar,” some brainy Hollywood executive came up with the grand idea of making a 3D movie by banking on the two keys to success for any movie — girls and piranhas. 
Yes, “Piranha 3D” can be described as overly tanned col­lege girls getting eaten by weird-looking, angry piranhas. 
A million or so prehistoric piranhas are set free from the depths of their world beneath Lake Victoria by a tremor just in time for the boozing and wet T-shirt contests of Spring Break. Only their idea of a wild week at the beach doesn’t involve party-that some might find to be “scary” (honestly, how anyone could ever confuse this movie with being scary is beyond me), “Piranha 3D” is inadvertently comical. 
It could because the movie is about piranhas, or because broshake-drinking meatheads are the victims and we don’t care enough about them to find it the least bit tragic. It might even just be that it’s flat-out dumb. Whatever the reason, it’s funny. 
What results from the equa­tion here (sex + jerks with a lot of hair gel getting eaten + actors whose 15 minutes are up + super piranhas = money at the box office) is a film that might 
not ride the 3D coattails 



ing hard with the “college bros” and “promiscuous girls,” but rather eating them alive. What ensues is a frat-like dorky-guy­gets-the-girl story drenched in blood, dismembered body parts and bad acting. 
What the film does feature besides constantly dancing col­lege kids (honestly, I’ve been to Spring Break and I don’t remember everyone at the beach dancing for every waking moment) is a slew of over-the­hill actors who for some reason agreed to be in this film. Richard Dreyfuss plays a follow­up to his role in “Jaws,” Jerry O’Connell poses as an adult film director, Ving Rhames (“Pulp Fiction”) is the sheriff who hero­ically dies and Christopher Lloyd plays the whacked out sci­entist who, for some reason, owns a statue of the extinct piranhas, and seems to be very aroused by their reemergence. 
No, in case you’re wondering, “Piranha 3D” is not an Oscar movie. It didn’t debut at Sundance or win the Palm d’Or at Cannes. What it is instead is nothing short of hilarious from start to end. It’s not a comedy, but like so many other movies to the extent that its cre­ators thought it would, but one that further proves the obvious — 3D will come to dominate the entertainment industry. 
If a B-movie like “Piranha 3D” can turn profits simply because sex sells, and sells even better when it’s in 3D even if the rest of the movie is about man-eat­ing fish, then the flood­
gates have been opened even more than they were before. 
“Piranha 3D” isn’t necessarily a “bad” film if you ignore most of what happens between the beginning and end credits from a truly critical standpoint. But when you think twice about the film, it becomes quite apparent that the filmmakers behind “Piranha 3D” meant for the film to be tongue-in-cheek. It never crosses the line and becomes offensive. Just the same, it never takes itself seriously enough to deserve the kind of shredding that films of its ilk often do when they try to make statements or pass themselves off as serious cinema. 
Instead, it’s a film chock full of metaphorical subplots, riveting character development and thought-provoking themes that ... come on, really? It’s a movie with a bunch of piranhas and even more beautiful girls. Enough said. 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Shane Steinberg at ssteinb2@nd.edu. 
By COURTNEY COX 
Scene Writer 

Names: Janelle Romano and Clare Parks 
Location: Irish Row 
Janelle is wearing a North Face jacket, jean shorts, and flip-flops. 
Clare is wearing an American flag bandana, a Notre Dame tank-top and windbreaker, a quilted patent leather bag and neon Nike high-tops. 
Nothing but Notre Dame spirit inspired their attire on game day. They bought their Notre Dame gear at the bookstore and just love to go crazy for games. 
Contact Courtney Cox at ccox3@nd.edu 
GASPAR GARCIA DE PAREDES | Observer Graphic 

page 10 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Tuesday, September 7, 2010 
CLUB SPORTS 

Penberthy scores to seal rugby win 
Special to the Observer 
The Notre Dame Rugby Football Club took down the Chicago Lions 17-5 in South Bend this Saturday. While both teams warmed up, fans crowded onto McGlinn Fields in anticipa­tion of the 11 a.m. game. 
The pace of the game was set from the opening kickoff, as sophomore Sean Peterson boot­ed the ball high and deep into Lions territory. Senior John Lalor quickly took down the Lions prop who caught the ball. 
The Lions, who boasted multi­ple United States national play­ers and very impressive size within the pack, dominated the scrums for the first half. The Irish, though, appeared to have the speed and endurance edge. There were several occasions where the Irish displayed their hard-nosed attitude and smash-mouth style, in particular when junior prop Daniel Scheper thwarted a potentially dangerous Lions attack with a devastating hit to the opposing flanker. Although the Irish found them­selves outmatched in the scrums, they were able to use their domi­nant kicking game, lead in part by sophomore David Penberthy and senior Sean Mitchell, to keep the Lions deep in their defensive zone. After a costly knock-on by the Lions, the Notre Dame side was able to send quick passes to the sidelines to allow the senior captain lock David Bray an easy try near the sidelines. The game was a very physical one, where the Irish spent a lot of time on the defensive. However, the team showed a relentless attitude and held off several attacks deep within the Irish zone. With about 15 min­utes remaining in the match, the Lions found themselves down in a very close 5-7 game. 
After some back and forth play, Penberthy was able to break through the Lions defense and leap headfirst into the opposing try-zone for what would prove to be the deciding score. The Irish defense held on to the lead, and after a late penalty conversion by sopho­more Sean Peterson, the Irish kept the lead with the help of some late substitutions. Junior prop Andrew Bonner came in to replace Lalor and was able to contribute solid minutes to the effort. 
MLB 
Rockies come back to beat Reds 
Associated Press 
DENVER — Ubaldo Jimenez won his club-record 18th game despite a wild performance and the surging Colorado Rockies rallied from a four-run deficit to beat the Cincinnati Reds 10-5 Monday. 
Even though he leads the National League in victories, Jimenez (18-6), hadn’t won since Aug. 4. He snapped a personal four-game losing streak even though he didn’t have his usual command of his fastball and struggled through a 123-pitch effort. 
He allowed seven hits and matched a season high with six walks, one of them intentional, threw a wild pitch and hit a bat­ter in six innings. 
The Reds’ lead in the NL Central was cut to six games over St. Louis, which beat Milwaukee 8-6. 
Troy Tulowitzki homered, tripled and drove in three runs for the Rockies. 
Reds rookie sensation Aroldis Chapman hit 102 mph on the stadium radar gun and struck out Tulowitzki. But the Rockies nicked Chapman for three hits during a three-run sixth that made it 8-4. 
After giving up four runs in the third inning, Jimenez stranded 11 Reds through the sixth. The Rockies finally gave him some run support in winning their fourth straight game against division leaders — they just took three from San Diego over the weekend, their first sweep on the road this season. 
Tulowitzki broke a 4-all tie in the fifth when he sent a fastball from Bill Bray (0-2) halfway up the left-field bleachers. 
In the fourth, Tulowitzki fol­lowed NL batting leader Carlos Gonzalez's bases-loaded, bro-ken-bat, two-run double down the right-field line with a two-run, standup triple to left-center as the Rockies quickly erased Cincinnati’s four-run cushion. 
Jimenez was lifted for pinch-hitter Chris Nelson in the sixth and Nelson singled, bringing on Chapman. His 99 mph heater was stroked up the middle by Eric Young Jr. for an RBI single that made it 6-4. 
Dexter Fowler’s hard shot knocked down shortstop Paul Janish, whose errant throw to second base allowed Nelson to score to make it 7-4. Ryan Hanigan’s passed ball allowed another run across before Chapman tied up Tulowitzki with an inside heater for strike three. 
The Reds batted around in the third inning, scoring four times on five hits and two walks. Drew Stubbs scored from third on Brandon Phillips’ groundout, Chris Heisey followed with an RBI single and Jonny Gomes added a two-run single to make it 4-0. 
Jimenez, who let out a big sigh of relief after striking out Stubbs with his 31st pitch of the inning to strand the bases full, drew a one-out walk in the bottom half of the inning, when the Rockies got all four runs back. 
The Reds stranded also stranded the bases loaded in the fourth and the sixth and left run­ners at the corners in the fifth. 
For a while this summer, it seemed like Jimenez would obliterate the franchise mark of 17 wins set by Kevin Ritz in 1996 and tied by Pedro Astacio in ‘99 and Jeff Francis in ‘07. But after winning 15 games before the All-Star break, Jimenez had been stuck on 17 wins for more than a month, vic­timized by poor run support and spotty defense. 
In his five previous starts, he was 0-4 despite a 3.00 ERA and he received zero or one run of support in four of those five games. 
“I think maybe if you want to get right down to it, we’ve been trying too hard to get the damn thing for him,” Colorado manag­er Jim Tracy said before the game. “We haven’t scored for the guy.” 
PGA 

Hoffman hopes Deutsche win will qualify for Ryder Cup 
he opened the back nine with a Pavin had said earlier in the Ogilvy was hitting his stride. He house to watch that,” Ogilvy said. 
Associated Press 

triple bogey, made a double week that no one should assume blasted out of the front bunker, “He hit great shots all day. He 
NORTON, Mass. — Charley bogey on the 17th and shot 76 to a good week at the Deutsche trying to nestle it close on greens putted really well and as soon as Hoffman was rolling in so many finish 15 shots behind in a tie for Bank would put him on the team. that were firm and fast, then he got himself in trouble he’d go putts he lost track of how many 25th. A month ago, Mickelson Hoffman, oozing California cool climbed out of the trap pumping and hole a bunker shot or some-birdies he made Monday. His had an equally good chance at with his blond locks flowing from his fist when it fell for an unlikely thing like that. So it was a pretty final stroke on a Labor Day mas-Firestone and shot 78. under his cap and kelly green birdie. He followed that with a 5-class act and he never looked terpiece was his 11th birdie, Even if he doesn’t make the pants to match his shoes, made a foot par save on the 14th, an 18-like doing anything but winning more than enough to win the Ryder Cup, the FedEx Cup is strong impression with his game foot birdie on the next hole and a after about three holes.” Deutsche Bank Championship. looking pretty good for Hoffman. and his words. 7-foot birdie on the 16th. The top 70 in the standings 
The question is whether it was He was No. 59 in the standings “No question I think I can con-No one could catch him. advance to the BMW enough to make him a last-and arrived at the TPC Boston tribute to that team,” Hoffman “The playoffs, that’s what you Championship, which starts minute pick for the Ryder Cup. wanting to make sure he said. “If I can shoot 62 here in try to do,” Hoffman said. “Just Thursday. 
“Hopefully, I’m on the real advanced to the third round of the playoffs, I’m pretty sure I can got it going this week.” Andres Romero, who only short list,” he said. the playoffs next week outside handle the Ryder Cup.” Day was wild off the tee early, started these playoffs at No. 115 
Hoffman ran off four straight Chicago. He wound up a winner, Hoffman tied the tournament then struggled with his putter and only got to the TPC Boston birdies early to erase a four-shot moving to No. 2 in the standings. record at 22-under 262, winning coming in. He shot an even-par with a 40-foot birdie putt on the deficit, seized control by holing a That assures him a shot at the for the second time in his PGA 71. Donald, who also had a share final hole last week, shot a 72 bunker shot on the 13th and $10 million bonus, and puts him Tour career. of the lead early, remained win-and narrowly made it at No. 68. closed with a 9-under 62 on the in all four majors next year after He looked plenty strong on a less on the PGA Tour since 2006 The surprise was Tom Gillis, who TPC Boston for a five-shot victory not playing any of them this year. gorgeous Labor Day in New when he settled for a 69. was at No. 92 until a 65-65 over Geoff Ogilvy, Jason Day and That includes his first trip to England. Starting the final round Ogilvy closed with a 66, and weekend gave him a tie for fifth Luke Donald. the Masters, one of many perks. four shots behind Day, Hoffman the runner-up finish moved him and moved him to No. 48. 
Tiger Woods had three rounds “The best perk would be the began his first big run with a from No. 52 to No. 9, assuring Steve Marino shot 76 and John in the 60s for the first time this Ryder Cup,” Hoffman said. two-putt birdie on the par-5 sec-him a spot in the Tour Rollins had a 79 to fall out of the year. He closed with a 69 to tie U.S. captain Corey Pavin will ond, and a pair of 10-foot birdies Championship. It was Ogilvy’s top 70. for 11th, and kept his No. 1 rank-make his four selections Tuesday sandwiched around a good tee first top 10 on tour since he won The heartbreak belonged to ing in the world when Phil morning in New York. The fron-shot to the front bunker on the at Kapalua in the first tourna-Kris Blanks, who closed with a Mickelson imploded again. trunners are Woods, Zach par-4 fourth green for a tap-in ment of the year. 70 and appeared to narrowly 
Mickelson needed only to finish Johnson and Stewart Cink, with birdie. He played alongside Hoffman make the field in Chicago until fourth to become No. 1 for the no one standing out as the fourth Hoffman must have known it and appreciated what he saw. Charlie Wi birdied the last hole first time in his career. Instead, choice. was his day on the 13th, as “I had the best seat in the to bump him out. 
The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 

Happiness is always a by-product. hating each other and not get Often people attempt to live their desired the unhappiness of others, It is probably a matter of tempera-along, but somehow, they only grew lives backwards; they try to have we could have a paradise in a few
PERSONAL ment, and for anything I know it closer than they had been before. more things, or more money, in years. ~Bertrand Russell UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Don't may be glandular.  But it is not They realized this was the greatest order to do more of what they want, go it alone. Notre Dame has many something that can be demanded time of their entire lives, and they so they will be happier.  The way it ——————————————— resources in place to assist you. If from life, and if you are not happy had to live up every second of it, actually works is the reverse. You you or someone you love needs you had better stop worrying about minus the few thousand seconds must first be who you really are, The art of living does not consist in 
If you or someone you care about confidential support or assistance, it and see what treasures you can that had to be spent in the library so then do what you need to do, in preserving and clinging to a particu­has been sexually assaulted, we please call Sr. Sue Dunn at 1-7819 pluck from your own brand of they did not get kciked out of order to have what you want. lar mode of happiness, but in allow-can help. For more information, visit or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For more unhappiness. ~Robertson Davies school. They had the funnest, yes ~Margaret Young ing happiness to change its form Notre Dame s website: information, visit ND's website at: funnest, times and tried to live ——————————————— without being disappointed by the http://csap.nd.edu. http://pregnancysupport@nd.edu. ——————————————— every day free of regrets. Even change; happiness, like a child, 
Once upon a time there were two when they had problems, they If there were in the world today any must be allowed to grow up. best friends who lived together. made them better. Highlight of my large number of people who desired ~Charles L. Morgan Everyone thought they would start day-coming home! their own happiness more than they 
——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Tuesday, September 7, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 11 
U.S. OPEN 

Wozniacki comes through to beat Sharapova 
Associated Press 
NEW YORK — Forehands, backhands, big serves. Caroline Wozniacki got almost everything back Monday, frustrating Maria Sharapova in a 6-3, 6-4 victory to advance to the quarterfinals of the U.S. Open. 
Top-seeded Wozniacki won the way she always does — by chas­ing down hundreds of balls and forcing the other player into making mistakes. 
The 14th-seeded Sharapova, trying to return to the quarterfi­nals at Flushing Meadows for the first time since winning it all in 2006, fought for longer than any of Wozniacki’s opponents to this point. But as the pressure of Wozniacki’s consistency built, the hard-hitting Russian went for even more, with limited results. 
Sharapova wound up making 36 unforced errors. Wozniacki finished with 10 in what was, by far, her biggest challenge of the tournament thus far. 
“I knew it wasn’t going to be easy,” said Wozniacki, who lost to Kim Clijsters in the final last year. “I got a lot of experience from last year, so it definitely helped me today.” 
Wozniacki improved to 18-1 since Wimbledon and stretched her winning streak to 12 match­es. Through her first four U.S. Open matches, she has lost a total of 10 games. Maybe most impressive, though, is this stat: She’s made 40 unforced errors, compared to 123 by her oppo­nents. 
The Dane, ranked second in the world but seeded first because of Serena Williams’ withdrawal, eliminated what is largely considered her toughest opponent remaining on her side of the draw. 
Next up, “Woz” plays 45th­ranked Dominika Cubulkova, who defeated No. 11 Svetlana Kuznetsova 7-5, 7-6 (4) earlier Monday. In the other quarterfinal on this side of the draw, No. 31 Kaia Kanepi will play the winner of a late-Monday match between No. 7 Vera Zvonareva and Andrea Petrovic. Kanepi defeated No. 15 Yanina Wickmayer 0-6, 7­6 (2), 6-1 on Monday. 


The Wozniacki-Sharapova match was the best show of three afternoon matches in Arthur Ashe Stadium, where earlier No. 3 Novak Djokovic sucked all the life out of the crowd by routing No. 19-seeded American Mardy Fish, 6-3, 6-4, 6-1. 
Fish’s loss left only one American in the draw, No. 20 Sam Querrey, who plays No. 25 Stanislas Wawrinka on Tuesday. 
Djokovic, eyeing his third straight U.S. Open semifinal, will play No. 17 Gael Monfils in the quarters. Earlier, Monfils beat fellow Frenchman Richard Gasquet 6-4, 7-5, 7-5. 
Since a five-set scare in the first round, Djokovic hasn’t dropped a set. Against Fish, who has played two five-setters in addition to doubles over the first week, the Serb was the better, fresher player. 
“I’m playing with a lot of confi­dence,” Djokovic said. “It’s defi­nitely great to raise the level of performance toward the end of the tournament. It’s been a great couple years for me in New York. Hopefully, I can go on.” 
With countrymen Andy Roddick and John Isner already gone, Fish was hoping to make Labor Day something memorable for his country — an underdog trying to get some momentum, and the crowd, on his side early, maybe channel his inner Jimmy Connors and turn the stadium into his own, personal cheering section. 


page 12 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISMENT Tuesday, September 7, 2010 Tuesday, September 7, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 13 

NFL 

Revis happy to be back home with the Jets 
Associated Press 
FLORHAM PARK, N.J. — Darrelle Revis was walking toward his teammates on the practice field when a strange feeling came over him. 
“I had butterflies,” the New York Jets’ cornerback said with a grin Monday. 
For a guy who routinely shuts down opponents’ best wide receivers, the acknowledgment of insecurity was stunning. 
“I didn’t know how my team­mates were going to accept me,” Revis said, “because I haven’t been here for a month.” 
After some loud, welcoming cheers and good-natured ribbing, Revis knew he was finally back home. He signed his four-year deal Monday afternoon, apologiz­ing to fans for not getting back sooner and officially making his return after a 36-day holdout. 
“It was a good feeling just to see the guys,” Revis said, “just wanting to be around them because I haven’t been here for a while.” 
Revis agreed to a new contract late Sunday night and took an early morning flight Monday from his home in South Florida. He arrived at the Jets’ training facility after 1 p.m., rejoined his teammates and signed the deal. 
“It was a long process,” he said. “It was rough on me. You know I’m a football player and I love to play the game and I’m happy it’s over with. I can go play football now." 
And, he’ll get started right away. Revis is expected to prac­tice Tuesday and be ready to play in the season opener next Monday night against Baltimore. 
“I do think we may play Revis, I’m not sure,” coach Rex Ryan quipped. “I think he might need to practice for several weeks before we play him, but don’t be shocked if he’s out there.” 
“In other words, he’s definitely playing.” 
Revis said he has stayed in shape by working out during his holdout, but he acknowledges that he’s not necessarily in foot­ball shape. 
“I haven’t had pads on and I haven’t had contact,” he said. “So that’s something I have to get back into and just take it slow in the process.” 
The Jets and Revis’ agents declined to announce financial terms of the deal, but it is report­edly worth at least $46 million, including $32 million guaran­teed. Revis said all along he wanted to be the highest-paid player at his position, something agent Jonathan Feinsod said the Jets cornerback would be — without releasing terms. 
“The numbers would reflect in our minds that he’s being paid as the highest-paid cornerback,” Feinsod said. 
After months of waiting and wondering about his future, the All-Pro cornerback was just so much just because I love to happy to be back on the field. play football,” Revis said. “At one 
“This experience humbled me point, it was something that was taken away, that I love to do. I’ve never had anything taken away from me that I love to do. So this was a point in my life where it was serious.” 



Perhaps the most crucial moment of the negotiations came Saturday, when both Ryan and owner Woody Johnson flew to South Florida to meet with Revis, mother Diana Gilbert and uncle and former NFL player Sean Gilbert to try to solve the contract impasse. 
“It meant a lot to me,” Revis said, “to show the passion they have for me to come down to Florida and just chat with me and see if we can come to a com­mon ground and both sides can see the right thing.” 
Both the Jets and Revis’ agents spoke all weekend until reaching what general manager Mike Tannenbaum called “a break­through” before coming to an agreement around 11 p.m. Sunday night. 
“I think the thing was, the sea­son is upon us,” Johnson said. “It was basically, let’s see if we can leave this room with something.” 
During the discussion with Revis, Johnson brought up the cornerback’s Hall of Fame poten­tial. 
“We talked about how impor­tant it is to keep on the right track,” Johnson said. “If he con­tinues his progress, I think Hall of Fame and Darrelle Revis don’t sound like they’re a strange pair." 
Revis began his holdout Aug. 1, when the team reported for training camp in Cortland with­out him. Agent Neil Schwartz said the nearly $600,000 in fines Revis accrued for sitting out would be given to an undeter­mined charity. 
Since early August, the team and Revis’ agents agreed to keep all negotiations confidential after things got testy through the media. With the silence came the fear that Revis could sit out the entire season, as his uncle once did. 
“I didn’t think it was going to get done,” linebacker Bart Scott said. “I was preparing myself to go into the game without him. Thankfully, we got it figured out and I think we’re a better team because of it.” 
Ryan said he heard Revis was at his New Jersey home a week or so ago, and drove there to try to meet with his star player. But, Revis wasn’t home. He also acknowledged storming out of a meeting room Sunday night in frustration while negotiations with Revis agents were being done over the phone. 

page 14 The Observer u SPORTS Tuesday, September 7, 2010 
Leon 
continued from page 16 
her biggest strength is her intensity. She’s physical, she’s highly competitive, and that’s what’s going to make her suc­cessful.” 
Leon logged her first minutes of the season on Friday night in Notre Dame’s 1-0 triumph against Santa Clara, making her return from a broken ankle she sustained in a physical col­lision early in the summer sea­son. Despite the long layoff, she was able to step right in to the game and play well enough to earn another 30 minutes of playing time in the Irish’s Sunday win over Texas Tech. The diminutive striker credits her experience on various Canadian national squads with providing her with the confi­dence to play at the college level. 
“Playing internationally pre­pared me for a higher level,” Leon said. “I got used to the faster pace of the game.” 
Waldrum, who has coached many players with national team experience, concurred, seeing national team experi­ence as invaluable to a player’s development, especially fresh­men who struggle with the transition to the faster-paced college game. 
“The level of the training and 
Watt 
continued from page 16 
Despite the success he experi­enced in his first two years, Watt is motivated to make some more damage on both the Big East and national levels. 
“This year we have seven seniors and four juniors, so we have extremely high expecta­tions because we are such an experienced team,” Watt said. 
Watt added that he hopes to qualify for the NCAA Singles Tournament this season. He also hopes that the Irish win the Big East and host the first two rounds of the NCAA Tournament. 
Freshmen 
continued from page 16 
“[Shulz] hasn’t been able to get in that mix just yet,” Irish coach Tim Connelly said. “But she should be back soon and hopefully will be ready to con­tribute by the time the champi­onship races come around in October.” 
One thing that Connelly said the freshmen know is that they must gain experience at the col­legiate level and not become beleaguered. Thus far, they have faired well. He said all of the new runners are comfort­able in their new roles on the team. 
“This is a talented group, but they also seem very focused and haven’t been overwhelmed by anything so far,” Connelly said. 
The freshmen are also in a tough spot because there are not a lot of open slots in races, but they have been competing extremely hard to jump into the intensity level of the [national team’s] is very hard to simulate, because every player is obviously the top of the top,” he said. “When they come back at a really high level of play, they start to understand the game a little better.” 
Despite Leon’s experience, both she and her coach agree that she has to improve on playing the ball more quickly to her teammates, an improve­ment that will come simply by playing more with her new teammates. 
“The biggest thing [for Adriana] is just getting her back and getting her used to playing with the players around her,” Waldrum said. 
Leon agreed with her coach. 
“It’s hard to play with people you’ve never really played with before, so getting used to it will take a while,” she said. 
Despite the challenges that Leon faces, she hopes to utilize her outside shot and her speed (still recovering from the ankle injury) to make an impact this season – and it comes as no surprise to hear that she will draw on her hockey experience to help her do so. 
“You definitely need a nose for the goal as a forward in both sports,” she said. “You need to work hard. It’s the same in both sports.” 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
He noted that the Irish have had a strong work ethic on the court and in the weight room as they look to attain those goals. 
“We are trying to go as long and as hard as we can this sea­son,” Watt said. “We are mak­ing it a point to do the little things right which will add up in the long run. The team atmosphere is at its best and people are constantly pushing each other to work even hard­er.” 
For Watt, the expectation is that the added work will result in a tournament berth and another selection to the All-Big East team. 
Contact Andrew Owens at aowens2@nd.edu 
those spots. 
“We are in an unusual situa­tion, in that we bring back a large part of our team from last [year], yet we also have a num­ber of newcomers who appear to be ready to step in and con­tribute,” Connelly said. “It’s creating a very competitive, yet positive situation where people are showing up every day and working hard.” 
The freshman class hopes to make an impact on the team this year at some point. After settling down into their rou­tines, Conelly said running would come natural as well. 
“To me, the biggest challenge that newer athletes face isn’t necessarily the increased com­pletion and training load that they see,” Connelly said. “It’s dealing with academics, a new environment, new roommates, etc. If they can handle all that, then the running will come around and they will get more confident the more they race.” 
Contact Tim Singler at tsingler@nd.edu 
dom afforded all in attendance his ears and his mind is best suit-was remarkable. I always tell our ed for growth. I spent the day lis-
Kubinski 
players that the guy talking all the tening. It was a day I will never continued from page 16 time probably isn’t learning forget.” 
much. Of course, if you’re not were so many learning opportu-learning, it’s difficult to improve Contact Chris Allen at nities,” Kubinski said. “The wis-yourself. The person who opens callen10@nd.edu 



Tuesday, September 7, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 15 
CROSSWORD WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 





 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to: The Observer 
and mail to: P.O. Box 779 Notre Dame, IN 46556 

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 

Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Tuesday, September 7, 2010 page 16 
ND WOMEN’S SOCCER 

O Canada! 
Freshman Leon is latest Irish player to come to South Bend from north of the border 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
For most Canadian athletes, hockey is far and away the most interesting, prominent and popular sport for males and females alike, as evidenced by Canada’s domination on both sides in the most recent Winter Olympics. 
Despite the sport’s tight grip on the Canadian national con­sciousness, Irish coach Randy Waldrum has been able to find and recruit Canadian soccer players to South Bend on a consistent basis, including for­mer All-Americans Melissa Tancredi and Candace Chapman from Ontario. Freshman forward Adriana Leon is Notre Dame’s latest tal­ent from north of the border, and it comes as no surprise that the striker is a hockey player herself. 
“I was actually looking to play hockey on a scholarship,” Leon said. “But I chose Notre Dame soccer because of the reputation it has for its aca­demics, and it’s a great soccer program. You can’t get much better than this.” 
Waldrum is glad that the Farley Hall-dwelling business intent chose to lace up cleats for the Irish instead of skates somewhere else, as his pro­gram needed another goal­scorer after losses to gradua­tion. He discovered Leon through an unconventional route and said he’s glad he did. 
“We really, really were in the need for a forward, and we kind of stumbled on to her through a connection,” he said. “The lady that brought her to my attention actually had a daughter who played at West Virginia, which is actually one of our biggest rivals. I thought that was a little odd.” 
No matter Leon’s unusual path to get here, Waldrum is effusive in his praise of his for­ward’s skills and mentality and has high hopes for her, evoking the name of Irish soccer legend Kerri Hanks in terms of Leon’s ceiling. 
“[Adriana’s] got a ton of skill and ability – I think she’s a goal scorer and really strikes the ball well,” he said. “But I think 
see LEON/page 14 
MEN’S GOLF 

Coach receives special opportunitythissummer 
Kubinski gets chance to caddy for legends 
By CHRIS ALLEN 
Sports Writer 
With an impressive list of accom­plishments spanning 20 years in golf, Irish head coach James Kubinski is considered one of the greats in teaching the game. On Aug. 10, however, through the good fortune of a former player, Kubinski found himself on the golf course in the company of legends. 
Over the summer, 2007 Notre Dame graduate and former Irish golfer Cole Isban called Kubinski and asked him to caddy in an event on Aug. 10. The request from Isban — arguably the best Notre Dame golfer in program his­tory — seemed reasonable to Kubinski. 
“I figured it would be for [Isban],” Kubinski said in a press release. “So I said sure.” 
The event turned out to be more than the average round of golf for Kubinski, as he filled a vacancy at caddy in the grand opening round of golfing great Jack Nicklaus’ new Harbor Shores Golf Club in Benton Harbor, Mich. 
The opening event, staged by Isban’s sports marketing firm, fea­tured golf legends Jack Nicklaus, Arnold Palmer, Johnny Miller and Tom Watson. Kubinski was on the bag for Watson as the foursome played the first round on the course. The opportunity placed Notre Dame’s top man side-by-side with some of his heroes. 
“As each player was announced with their accomplishments, it really sunk in that this group had combined to win 35 professional major championships,” Kubinski said. “It was surreal. I’m not sure you could put together a different foursome at any time in the history of the game any more impressive.” 
Of note in the group was the course designer Nicklaus, whose 18 major titles rank as the best all-time and undoubtedly position him as the greatest living golfer. Kubinski walked away from the round with a sense of the intensity that made the man they call the “Golden Bear” such a winner. 
“Jack took a little extra time over the ball on his approach [on the first tee],” Kubinski said. “Golf’s all-time greatest player, to date, was giving us a lesson in how he became the game’s greatest champion.” 
Kubinski, who is preparing an Irish squad that begins competitive play at the College of Charleston Invitational in Kiawah Island, S. C. next Monday, took the opportunity to learn as much as he could from the four legends in the hopes of passing it on to his team. 
“From the clinic the four greats put on before the match and then right through the 18 holes, there 
see KUBINSKI/page 14 

YUE WU/The Observer Freshman forward Adriana Leon runs for the ball during Notre Dame’s 2-0 win over Texas Tech on Sunday. 
MEN’S TENNIS 
Watt aims to boost legacy 

JAMES DOAN/The Observer 
Junior Casey Watt prepares for a backhand return during action during Notre Dame’s 5-2 
loss to Louisville on April 10. 
By ANDREW OWENS 
Sports Writer 
After two consecutive selec­tions to the All-Big East team, Casey Watt has already proved himself as one of the best play­ers in program history. His next step is to become one of the best players in conference history. 
The junior from Gibsonia, Pennsylvania made an impact from the start for the Irish as he won 28 of 33 matches his freshman year. At the end of the season he was named to both the All-Big East team and 
ND CROSS COUNTRY 
Talented freshmen join squad 
By TIM SINGLER 
Sports Writer 
The Notre Dame cross-coun­try team has added some young, talented freshmen that hope to make a big splash in the upcoming season. 
The freshmen classes for both the men’s and women’s teams boast outstanding acco­lades from their high school years. 
The Irish women’s cross-country team has eight new freshmen on the roster this year, and all hope to make a contribution to the team this year. Three freshmen that aim to make an impact this year are Meg Ryan, Kelly Curran, and Alexa Aragon while a fourth, McKinzie Shulz, will also pro­vide a spark to the team after she recovers from a foot injury. 
see FRESHMEN/page 14 
Big East All-Academic honors. 
Watt improved in his sopho­more campaign and was once again named to the All-Big East team. His role as a team leader was crucial for the Irish, as the team earned a berth in the NCAA Tournament before being eliminated by Wisconsin. 
“The biggest highlight was our match against Wisconsin,” Watt said. “They are one of our biggest rivals and we lost to them by a score of 4-3 twice my freshman year. Last year we remembered the terrible feeling we had after those loss­es and went out and beat them 4-3 at home.” 
Watt played no small role in the match, as he defeated the seventh ranked player in the nation in a comeback victory. 
“Clearly Casey is our tough­est competitor and has a repu­tation as one of the toughest players in the country,” assis­tant head coach Ryan Sachire said. “When you have someone who you know is going to give all, then the other players cer­tainly have someone to look up to and emulate.” 
see WATT/page 14 





