the
Observer 
The Independent Newspaper Serving Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s 


Survey names ND a ‘Dream College’ 
Dance Marathon raises $77,000 
Saint Mary’s event holds fundraiser for Riley Hospital for Children 

By MOLLY MADDEN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame is one of American parent’s “Dream Schools,” according to a recent survey conducted by the Princeton Review. The survey of 3,042 parents of college applicants ranked Notre Dame the No. 7 school where parents would want to send their child if acceptance and cost were not issues. 
The Princeton Review has consistently ranked Notre 

MARY CECILIA MITSCH | Observer Graphic 
Dame since the survey’s cre­ation in 2003, and Director of Admissions Dan Saracino said the University’s constant pres­ence says a lot about the Notre Dame education. 
“What it really means is that we’re consistent,” Saracino said. “We’re not a ‘hot’ school or a ‘trendy’ school. We’re a school that stands for the same values today as it did years ago.” 
Notre Dame was ranked behind institutions such as 
see SURVEY/page 6 

By MONICA MURPHY 
News Writer 

Saint Mary’s and Notre Dame students gathered to “Dance for a Chance” at the fifth annu­al Dance Marathon at the College’s Angela Athletic Facility Friday and Saturday. 
The event, which was hosted by the College with the help of Notre Dame’s Pre-Professional Society, raised $77,328 and will donate $72,000 to the Riley Hospital for Children in Indianapolis. 
“This year, we were focused on fundraising, making our presence known and trying to raise awareness,” said Dance Marathon president Kelly Deranek, a senior at Saint Mary’s. 
Approximately 350 people attended this year’s event, which ran from 8 p.m. Friday until 8 a.m. Saturday. 
The night included live per­formances by the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Irish dance team and bands such as South Jordan. In addition, raffles, crafts and card games were among the many activities of the night. 
Children from Riley attended the event, including Marty Manges, who said arm wrestling with a Notre Dame football player was one of the coolest things he had ever done. The Saint Mary’s College Morale Committee also came to teach volunteers how to dance. 
Steve Bariteau, a representa­tive of Riley Hospital for 
Photo courtesy of Meghan Casey Saint Mary’s volunteers at this weekend’s Dance Marathon hold upthe final amount of money raised for the Riley Hospital for Children. 
Children, was in attendance and shared his thoughts on the positive impact the College has made on the hospital. He said Saint Mary’s had raised over $245,000 for the hospital since the inception of the Dance Marathon. 
“Because of you, we have been able to serve over 8,000 patients from South Bend, a young girl from California was able to be treated and 66 per­cent of pediatricians are becoming more educated,” Bariteau said. 
Guest speakers made appearances throughout the night, including Sheila Fraser, a current Marian High School student, who was diagnosed with cancer two years ago. 
The doctors later determined Fraser suffered from osteosar­coma, a type of bone cancer. Fraser was named a Riley Champion from 2008-09. 
Fraser shares her story through public speaking engagements at events such as Dance Marathon throughout the state to raise awareness 
see DANCE/page 6 




Lecture discusses turmoil in Congo 
Conference speaker advocates comprehensive consumer campaign 
By KATIE PERALTA 
Assistant News Editor 
The 18th annual Student Peace Conference, sponsored by the Kroc Institute for International Peace Studies, kicked off its weekend events Friday with a talk by keynote speaker John Prendergast, founder of the Enough Project, which aims to end genocide and crimes against humanity. 
Prendergast’s organization also works to inform Americans how they might, as consumers, indirectly be per­petuating torture and genocide in developing nations like the Congo. 
Naunihal Singh, assistant 
see CONGO/page 6 






Summit connects students,community 
By MEGHAN MANNING 
News Writer 
The fourth annual Notre Dame Community Summit introduced new staff and student leaders Friday afternoon and updated the progress in relations between the community and the University before student gov­ernment turnover occurs on April 1. 
“It was a great chance for the new leaders to meet with the members of the community that we’ve established relations with, and that we’ve created really successful events and programs with,” senior Denise Baron, a member of student government’s Committee on Community Relations, said. “It’s done at this time so we can ease the transi­tion and help connect new lead­ers to the community members we have been working with.” 
One development highlighted was the creation of the Crime Safety and Prevention Task Force, started this fall in response to the growing con­cerns of crime targeted at stu­dents in the greater South Bend area. Student body president Grant Schmidt said the task force has made significant improvements in this area. 
Summit participants later broke into small groups to indi­
see SUMMIT/page 6 



INSIDE TODAY’S PAPER ROTC sponsors fundraising event page 4  Hot Tub Time Machine review page 10  Women’s basketball falls page 20  Viewpoint page 8 
page 2 The Observer  PAGE 2 Monday, March 29, 2010 

INSIDE COLUMN 

My 8 reasons to love N.J. 
I’m from New Jersey, and I’m proud of it. First of all, let me tell you that we do not live on one big slab of Turnpike, the air is safe to breathe and we actually do know how to pump gas (well, Sara Felsenstein some of us). 
The typical 

News Wire 
response to me 
Editor 

telling someone where I’m from is: “Oh, you’re from New Jersey. Do you know any guidos?” New Jersey, however, has much more to offer than gelled hair, highways and densely populated cities. New Jersey has a rich history that has contributed to the landscape of modern day America. 
New Jersey gets a bad rap, and I have 400 words to disprove it. 
1. 
Let me start off with a brief history. New Jersey was one of the original 13 colonies that fought in the Revolutionary War. In fact, it is referred to as the “Crossroads of the Revolution” because more battles were fought in New Jersey than in any other colony. (Shut up, Indiana. You didn’t even exist.) 

2. 
The Jersey Shore. No, not the Jersey Shore you’re thinking of. I’m talking about the majestic Atlantic Ocean that borders the entire eastern coast of my state. 

3. 
There are over 600 diners in New Jersey, more than in any other place in the world. There’s nothing better than eating eggs and a milkshake at 4 a.m. while your guy friends enjoy an assort­ment of buffalo chicken wings, cinnamon rolls and chili fries. 

4. 
Malls. New Jersey also has more shopping malls than any other place in the world. Within a five-mile radius of my house I have a choice of four different malls. Girls, don’t tell me you wouldn’t appreciate that. 

5. 
Sports buffs: the first baseball game ever was played in Hoboken, N.J., and the first col­lege football game was played in New Brunswick between Rutgers and Princeton. 

6. 
New Jersey is the birthplace of the drive-in movie, the board­walk, the postcard, the zipper, the cultivated blueberry, the seedless watermelon, the light bulb and the FM radio. 

7. 
Frank Sinatra, Thomas Edison, Bruce Springsteen, Meryl Streep and Jon Bon Jovi — you guessed correctly. They are all Jersey born and raised. 

8. 
The air I breathe may be less than clean and my politicians may sometimes be corrupt. However, I also live in a place of rolling farmlands and mountains, a place with New York City to the east and Philadelphia to the south. 


So if you ever get the chance, take a drive along the Garden State Parkway, stop at a diner, fill up on gas (with the luxury of stay­ing in your car) and enjoy the sce­nic beauty that is my home state. 
The views expressed in the Inside Column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Contact Sara Felsenstein at sfelsens@nd.edu 
CORRECTIONS 

The Observer regards itself as a professional publication and strives for the highest standards of journalism at all times. We do, however, recognize that we will make mistakes. If we have made a mistake, please contact us at 631-4541 so we can correct our error. 
QUESTION OF THE DAY: IF YOU COULD LIVE IN ANOTHER TIME PERIOD, WHEN WOULD YOU CHOOSE? 








Rafta Rivera  Caitlan Greubel  Nick Michalak  John Juarez  Jack Cooley  Rob Schaus  
freshman Alumni  sophomore McGlinn  freshman Fisher  sophomore O’Neill  freshman O’Neill  sophomore O’Neill  
“The Roman time because there was a lot of fighting ... it’s cool.”  “I would live in the 40s with Frank Sinatra.”  “When Jesus lived. It’d be cool to see him.”  “I’d live with the dinosaurs.”  “The medieval times because I want to be the king of the castle!”  “Being a Spartan would be kind of cool.”  

Have an idea for Question of the Day? E-mail observer.questions@gmail.com 

VANESSA GEMPIS/The Observer Sophomore Jordan Matulis gets dunked during Howard Hall’s Dunk-A-Duck event Friday. The event was held by the residence hall as a fundraiser for earthquake victims in Chile and Haiti. 
OFFBEAT 

Drunken driver reports herself to authorities 
EAST LANSING, Mich. — Police in Michigan have released a copy of a 911 call where a suspected drunken driver chats with an emergency dispatcher for about 20 minutes before she is pulled over and arrested. 
In the first moments of the March 13 call, the dis­patcher asks: “Are you intoxicated?” and the woman replies: “Absolutely.” The dis­patcher pleads with the woman to pull over and she tells him she “should­n’t be driving.” 
The dispatcher helped officers find the driver in East Lansing. 
Police say the 27-year-old Charlotte resident placed the call at 5:40 a.m. The woman was issued a cita­tion for operating while intoxicated and faces up to 90 days in jail. Her name hasn’t been released. 
Suspected robber duct tapes shoes as cover-up 
MANISTEE TOWNSHIP, Mich. — Maybe duct tape doesn’t work for every­thing. Police said an 18­year-old Cadillac man who fastened duct tape to the bottom of his shoes in an attempt to conceal the rob­bery of a northern Michigan business has been arrested. 
Manistee County sheriff officials said the man admitted robbing All Star Pay Day Loans in Manistee Township, about 210 miles northwest of Detroit. He was arrested about 3:35 
a.m. Thursday after being spotted by deputies. 
Police told the Ludington Daily News and WWMT-TV the man was wearing dark clothing and carrying about $1,200 in cash. 
Information compiled from the Associated Press. 
Today Tonight Tuesday Wednesday 

IN BRIEF 
The Creative Writing Program will host a conference titled “The Open Light: A Celebration of Notre Dame Poets,” beginning at 3 p.m. today in 100-104 McKenna Hall. 
The Institute for Latino Studies will sponsor a lecture titled “On the Sociology of Exile and Identity: The Creation and Maintenance of the Cuban Exile Ideology,” starting at 4 
“MONSEÑOR (Monseñor, the 
p.m.  today  in  210-214  
McKenna Hall.  
A  screening  of  the  film  

Last Journey of Oscar Romero)” will be held tonight at 6:45 p.m. in the Montgomery Auditorium of LaFortune. 
An exhibit titled “Yin Yu Tang: A Chinese Home” will take place Tuesday at 10 a.m. in the Scholz Family Works on Paper Gallery at the Snite Museum of Art. Admission is free. 
A campus-wide procession of the Stations of the Cross will depart from the Grotto at 7 
p.m. 
Tuesday. 

A lecture titled “The New Northern Ireland: Immigration, Identity and Belonging” will take place Thursday at 12:30 

p.m. 
in C103 of the Hesburgh Center for International Studies. Admission is free. 


The Notre Dame women’s softball team will face Rutgers at 6 p.m. Thursday in Melissa Cook Stadium. 
To submit information to be included in this section of The Observer, e-mail detailed information about an event to obsnews@nd.edu 

thursday Friday 

Atlanta 51 / 40 Boston 55 / 48 Chicago 52 / 34 Denver 64 / 46 Houston 74 / 48 Los Angeles 76 / 55 Minneapolis 60 / 44 New York 56 / 48 Philadelphia 60 / 49 Phoenix 85 / 60 Seattle 50 / 41 St. Louis 60 / 38 Tampa 67 / 53 Washington 62 / 50 
Monday, March 29. 2010 The Observer  PAID ADVERTISEMENT page 3 
page 4 The Observer  NEWS Monday, March 29, 2010 
ROTC sponsors fundraising event 
By COURTENAY DEVLIN 
News Writer 
Notre Dame’s Tri-Military Command hosted its first annual March Madness 10k Run Saturday and far surpassed its fundraising goal of $3,000 for the Wounded Warrior Project (WWP). 
The three clubs — ATLAS (army ROTC), Arnold Air Society and Trident Naval Society — will donate the more than $3,700 it raised directly to the WWP, said Matt Zak, president of the Trident Naval Society. WWP has a stated mission “to raise awareness and enlist the public’s aid for the needs of severely injured service men and women, to help severely injured service members aid and assist each other and to provide unique, direct programs and serv­ices to meet the needs of severely injured service members,” according to the organization’s Web site. 
According to the Web site, over 500,000 troops have been wound­ed in battle, and many have suf­fered traumatic brain injuries, amputations, severe burns and post-traumatic stress disorder. 

The race began at Clarke Memorial Fountain and wound around campus and the lakes on a cool, partly cloudy Saturday. 
“It was an enjoyable race despite the cold conditions, and I was happy to run for a good cause,” said senior Matthew Bartindale, who won the event by completing the 6.2-mile track in less than 36 minutes. 
More than 150 people partici­pated in the event. 
“I believe in supporting our troops and I admire what they do to protect our country,” freshman Consuela Garcia said. “I enjoyed running the race for them.” 
Zak said he thought the event was a great success. 
“We put in a lot of hard work over the last three months and I have received nothing but positive comments,” Zak said. “Our goal was $3,000 and we almost made $4,000. I hope it will continue in the future.” 
Contact Courtney Devlin at cdevlin@nd.edu 

Students share immigration stories 
La Fuerza hosts Immigration Monologues as part of Action Week 
By BRITTANY VANSNEPSON 
News Writer 

La Fuerza, the Saint Mary’s club that represents Latina cul­ture, hosted Immigration Monologues Thursday as a part of Action Week. Club president Cristina Posadas began the lec­ture by addressing six myths commonly associated with immigrants. 
She said the myths are that immigrants do not want to learn English, do not pay taxes, increase crime rates, take jobs away from Americans, drain the economy and are a burden on the health care system. 
Posadas said she hopes by promoting the Development, Relief and Education of Alien Minors (DREAM) Act, people will become more aware of the potential of undocumented immigrants. 
“This would provide a pass to legal status so they can go to college, get careers and con­tribute to society,” Posadas said. 
A group of students from Notre Dame, Saint Mary’s, Holy Cross and Indiana University South Bend (IUSB) helped make up the panel that addressed the issues of immigrations they per­sonally faced. 
Panel member Felix Marquez, an IUSB student, shared his own story of how he was forced Huerta’s family was forced to move multiple times and suffer in poverty. 
At age 5, Huerta said he remembers his teacher saying he would amount to nothing 

to leave El Salvador after he was recruit­ed by the mili­tary at age 16. 
“[The mili­tary] said they were going to make me into a man and I’d go represent my country,” Marquez said. 
Marquez said his mother had other ideas and sent him to the United States because of his parents’ social 
“This would provide standing in life. He said that 
a pass to legal 
moment would status so they can inspire him to go to college, denying his cul­tural heritage 
get careers and 
for many years. 

contribute to “It wasn’t society.” until high school that I was finally able 
Cristina Posadas 
to be proud of president my heritage,” La Fuerza Huerta said. 
Huerta is cur­rently pursuing 

where he would not be forced into a war she did not support. Upon his arrival in the United States in 1990, Marquez said he has learned English and was the first of his family members to attain a high school degree. 
Notre Dame freshman Luis Huerta was born a citizen of the United States to illegal immi­grant parents. As result, a degree from Notre Dame alongside his mother, who is hoping to earn a degree in man­agement. 
“I just want people to know that anything is possible here in the United States, it just takes time,” Huerta said. 
Contact Brittany VanSnepson at bvansn01@saintmarys.edu 

N.Y. archbishop defends pope against sex abuse furor 
vicious sin, this nauseating priests. past?” of Dolan’s remarks. 
Associated Press 

crime is reported, as it needs Dolan in his homily also did-“Yes! Yes!” he said, answer-“I thought it was very well 
NEW YORK — Archbishop to be, victims and their fami-n’t mention the scandal, but a ing his question. “He himself put,” said Inga Yungwirth, of Timothy Dolan was greeted lies are wounded again, the church spokesman alerted has asked for it, encouraging Hagerstown, Md. “It doesn’t with applause after finishing vast majority of faithful priests reporters in the crowd that he complete honesty, at the same shake my faith.” Palm Sunday Mass by defend-bow their heads in shame would make a statement at the time eloquently expressing Earlier, several protesters ing Pope Benedict XVI against anew and sincere Catholics end of the Mass, which lasted contrition and urging a thor-had gathered outside the suggestions he aided cover-like you experience another more than an hour. ough cleansing. Gothic-style cathedral, which ups of reports of child abuse. dose of shock, sorrow and Dolan credited the pope for “All we ask is that it be fair sits on Fifth Avenue opposite 
The standing -room-only even anger,” Dolan said. making possible the progress and that the Catholic Church Rockefeller Center. crowd at St. Patrick’s He added: “What deepens the Catholic Church has made not be singled out for a horror “Honk if Pope should Cathedral applauded for 20 the sadness now is the unre-in the United States against that has cursed every culture, resign,” said one sign, which seconds after Dolan read a lenting insinuations against “this sickening sin and crime,” religion, organization, institu-attracted only an occasional statement calling the pope the the Holy Father himself, as saying changes “could never tion, school, agency and family toot from drivers. “leader in purification, reform certain sources seem almost have happened without the in the world,” he said. and renewal that the church frenzied to implicate the insistence and support of the Palm Sunday, the Sunday so very much needs.” man.” very man now being daily before Easter, marks Jesus’ 
Still, Dolan said reports of In Vatican City, the pope in crowned with thorns by entry into Jerusalem and the abuse of minors by some his Palm Sunday homily made groundless innuendo.” laying of palm fronds before priests in Ireland and no direct mention of the abuse He asked whether the him. Outside the cathedral Germany and the retelling of scandal, which has drawn church and the pope “need Sunday, worshippers emerging the abuse of children by a fresh attention to the church’s intense scrutiny and just criti-from the service with palm priest in Wisconsin had handling of cases of pedophile cism for tragic horrors long fronds were largely supportive “knocked us to our knees once again” and intensified the somberness of Holy Week, the most sacred time on the Christian calendar. 
He urged the Manhattan congregation to pray for the pope, saying he was suffering some of the same unjust accu­sations once faced by Jesus. 
“Anytime this horror, this 





World & Nation 
Monday, March 29, 2010 Compiled from The Observer’s wire services page 5 
INTERNATIONAL NEWS 

Commision to investigate abuse 
VIENNA — Austrian Cardinal Christoph Schoenborn has announced the creation of a commission to investigate recent abuse claims against the country’s Catholic Church. 
Schoenborn says the body will be church-fund­ed but independent and free of clergy. He says it is not meant to replace a possible state-run investigative commission. 
Waltraud Klasnic, a former governor of the Alpine republic’s southern province of Styria, will head the commission. Schoenborn is slated to meet with her Thursday to discuss details. 
Austria is among several European countries that have been hit by a string of church abuse allegations in recent weeks. 
Iraqi Prime Minister challenges vote 
CAIRO — The challenge by Iraq’s Shiite prime minister to election results that showed him coming in a close second to his chief rival — Sunni-backed Ayad Allawi — is a risky tactic. 
If Nouri al-Maliki succeeds in his attempt to block the secular Shiite Allawi from forming a coalition government, it would leave the minority Sunni Arabs seething. That could undermine the credibility of Iraq’s nascent democracy and unleash a new bout of sectar­ian violence just as the U.S. is preparing to pull all its troops out of the country. 
Final results of the March 7 election released Friday showed Allawi’s Iraqiya coalition winning 91 parliamentary seats thanks to heavy support by Sunnis and al­Maliki’s Shiite-led bloc with 89. 
NATIONAL NEWS 

NYC to search for Sept. 11 remains 
NEW YORK — New York City officials are planning to search through material exca­vated from around the World Trade Center site for any remains of Sept. 11 victims. 
The three-month endeavor is scheduled to start Friday at the Fresh Kills landfill on Staten Island. The material being searched was taken from the area around ground zero in the last two years. 
If there are any possible remains found, the material will undergo testing at the city medical examiner’s office. 
The search is expected to cost $1.4 million. 
FBI agents conduct raids 
ADRIAN, Mich. — The FBI said Sunday that agents conducted weekend raids in Michigan, Indiana and Ohio and arrested at least three people, and a militia leader in Michigan said the target of at least one of the raids was a Christian militia group. 
Federal warrants were sealed, but FBI spokeswoman Sandra Berchtold said there had been activity in two southwest Michigan counties near the Ohio state line. She would-n’t say whether they were tied to the raids in the other states. 
FBI spokesman Scott Wilson in Cleveland said agents arrested two people Saturday after raids in two towns in Ohio. A third arrest was made in northeast Illinois on Sunday, a day after a raid took place just over the border in northwest Indiana. 
FBI agents in Ohio made arrests in Huron and Sandusky on Saturday night, Wilson said. No further information would be released until after they appeared in court Monday. 
LOCAL NEWS 

New law limits traffic court fines 
INDIANAPOLIS — Traffic scofflaws could find their violations a little easier on the wal­let under a new state law that takes effect July 1. 
The law sets maximum fines for moving violations that are Class C infractions, includ­ing speeding and failing to stop at stop signs or traffic lights. 
Under the new law, fines can range from $35.50 to $500, plus an additional $114.50 in court fees. The higher penalties will be paid by those who contest the violation and lose and have previously contested violations unsuccessfully. 
Obama slips into Afghanistan 
President hopes to voice American resolve in his first visit to Asian country 
Associated Press  
KABUL — Under elabo­ 
r at e se crec y, Presiden t  
Ba r ack Ob ama slippe d  
into Af g hanist an on  
Sunda y near t h e f r o n t  
lines of the increasingly  
bloody 8-year-old war he  
is expanding and affirmed  
America’s commitment to  
destroying al-Qaida and  
its extremist allies in the  
land where the 9-11 plot  
was hatched.  
Obama’s six-hour visit  
was conducted entirely  
under the shroud of night­ 
fall, after Air Force One’s  
unannounced flight from  
the U.S. Obama defended  
his decision to escalate  
the fight, telling troops  
whose n umbe r s h e is  
tripling that their victory  
is imperative to America’s  
safety.  
His bid to shore up faith  
in the struggle was aimed  
both a t the troops who  
ch eered him an d  
A me r ica n s back home.  
A nd , he d em ande d  
acc o unt ability from  
A fgha n authori t ie s to  
make good on repeated  
promises to improve living  
conditions, rein in corrup­ 
tion and enforce the rule AP  
of law to prevent people President Barack Obama rallies American troops at the Bagram Air Base during his visit to  
from joining the in sur-Afghanistan on Sunday.  
gency.  
“ Yo u r s erv ice s a re  the troops, recalling the  Laden, believed to be hid- to Obama’s handling of it.  
absolu tely ne cessary,  Sept. 11, 2001, attacks  ing along the ungoverned  Obama’s dark suit was  
absolu tely esse nt ial to  and warning that al-Qaida  borde r be tw een  soiled with dust when he  
America’s safety and secu­ was still using the region  Afghanistan and Pakistan.  stepped off his helicopter  
rity,” the president told a  to plan terrorist strikes  “If this re g ion sli des  at the presidential palace  
li ve ly crow d of a b o u t  against the U.S. and its  backwards,” Obama told  i n K ab ul. Whit e House  
2,500 troops and civilians  allies. “We are going to  the troops, “if the Taliban  officials said Obama, in  
at Bagram Air Field north  di srupt a nd disma n t le ,  retakes this country, al­ private talks, wanted to  
o f K abul . “ Those folks  defe at and de s t r o y al - Qaida can operate with  drive home the point that  
back home are relying on  Qaida and its extremist  i mpuni ty, the n more  Afghan President Hamid  
you. We can’t forget why  allies.”  American lives will be at  Kar zai an d his Cabi n et  
we’re here.”  Obama had gone Friday  stake, the Afghan people  must do more to battle  
It was Obama’s first trip  afternoon to the presiden­ will lose their opportunity  corruption and cronyism  
as pre s ide n t to  tial retreat at Camp David,  for progress and prosperi­ in government.  
Afghanistan, where the  Md. , from whic h un n o - ty and the world will be  Ka r zai “n ee d s to be  
n umbe r o f U.S. t r o o ps  ticed departures are easi­ significantly less secure.  seized with how important  
killed has roughly doubled  er because of its secluded  As long as I’m your com- that is,” said Jim Jones,  
in the first three months  mountain location. The  mander in chief, I’m not  Obama’s national security  
of 2010 compared with  small contingent of White  going to let that happen.”  adviser. Karzai has raised  
the same period last year  House aides and media  That resolve was meant  eyebrows in Washington  
as Washington has added  brought on the trip were  just as surely for stateside  with recent trips to Iran,  
tens of thousands of addi­ sworn to secrecy. Obama  citizens as for the people  China and Pakistan and  
tional soldiers to reverse  arrived in Kabul just two  who heard it face to face.  hi s w elc o mi n g Ira n ia n  
the Taliban’s momentum.  days after a threatening  Polls find that Americans  President Mah moud  
“We did not choose this  new audio message from  are divided on the war if,  Ahmadinejad to Kabul this  
war, ” Ob ama r em inde d  al-Qaida leader Osama bin  more recently, favorable  month.  

ISRAEL 

Prime Minister downplays U.S. tensions 
are disagreements between friends, Washington and calls to cancel the con-
Associated Press 

and that’s how they will stay.” struction plans. 
JERUSALEM — Israel’s leader tried The U.S. has criticized Israeli con-Netanyahu, who has consistently to play down tensions with the U.S. on struction in east Jerusalem — the sec-rejected calls for any halt to building in Sunday after a rocky meeting at the tion of the holy city claimed by the Jerusalem, got a chilly reception at the White House last week, saying that Palestinians. It has asked Israel for ges-White House last week. He gave no relations with Washington remain tures toward the Palestinians to help sign of giving in to the U.S. demand or solid. relaunch peace talks, which were resolving the dispute by the time he 
In his first public comments on the about to start earlier this month when left. matter, Prime Minister Benjamin the latest spat over settlements broke Ties between Israel and the U.S. are Netanyahu told his Cabinet that Israel out. more tense than they have been in and the U.S. can work out their differ-The planned negotiations were years. ences. thrown into doubt after Israel Netanyahu discussed the matter with 
“The relationship between Israel and announced plans to build 1,600 new his Cabinet ministers at their weekly the U.S. is one between allies and apartments for Jews in east Jerusalem. meeting Sunday, and told reporters friends, and it’s a relationship based on Israel made the announcement while before the meeting that he had taken years of tradition,” Netanyahu said. Vice President Joe Biden was visiting, “certain steps in order to narrow the “Even if there are disagreements, these drawing sharp condemnations from gaps.” 
page 6 The Observer  CAMPUS NEWS Monday, March 29, 2010 
Dream 
continued from page 1 
Stanford University, Princeton University and Harvard University. Saracino said Notre Dame is “confident” in its mission and is continuing to try and further the educa­tion experience for Notre Dame students by following that mission. 
“We’re not trying to be Harvard; we’re trying to be a better Notre Dame,” he said. 
Saracino said Notre Dame’s mission has helped make the University “one of the top schools in terms of dream schools,” even though Notre Dame was ranked No. 4 last year in the same survey. 
“I don’t see anything dis­turbing about a drop from fourth to seventh,” he said. “Over the years, Notre Dame is always listed in various surveys as being in the top five or top 10 by parents, stu­dents and high school coun­selors. We’re always going to be one of those schools.” 
Freshman Mario Earnest said he thinks the drop in rankings could be in part the result of the University’s pub­lic position. 
“Recent events that have happened in relation to the University were handled very publicly and there were some mixed reactions,” he said. “But that goes along with being a dream school. We’re in the spotlight so what we say matters.” 

Of the 10 schools listed in the survey, Notre Dame is the only college with a religious affiliation. 
Notre Dame is the only top­10 institution with a religious affiliation, and Saracino said he believes Notre Dame’s Catholic pres­ence on this the best business school in the country, are what really matter to students,” Sullivan said. 
Sophomore Eileen Gillespie, who agreed with Sullivan said, “students don’t really care about lists like this.” 
While Baumann said Notre Dame’s consistent ranking was a good thing, she said parents’ opin­ions of the 

survey is a University
“Notre Dame is 
very “positive” shouldn’t be of 
recognized as being
indicator. major concern 
“Notre Dame one of the schools that to students. is recognized is clearly dedicated to “Who cares if as being one of someone else 
nurturing the mind,
the schools thinks it’s a that is clearly heart and soul.” dream school,” dedicated to she said. “It nurturing the only matters 
Dan Saracino 
mind, heart what I think of 
director
and soul,” he the school.” 
Offce of Admissions
said. Whether or 
Freshman Natalie Baumann said she is happy religion is still considered an important factor when it comes to selecting an institu­tion of higher learning. 
“Being the sole Catholic school on that list shows that faith is still important for some people, which is a good thing,” she said. 
Freshman Kelly Sullivan said certain aspects of Notre Dame matter more than oth­ers to students. 
“Rankings on substantial matter, such as Mendoza [College of Business] being not students 
care about these rankings, Saracino said the University has been receiving more undergradu­ate applications each year and that “the quality of the student body is stronger than it has ever been.” 
“Notre Dame is always going to be a top school in the eyes of students, parents and the public because in their minds, Notre Dame is what an ideal college should be like,” Saracino said. 
Contact Molly Madden at mmadden3@nd.edu 

Dance 
continued from page 1 
for Riley. Fraser said she lives by one simple motto: “Never give up because there is so much hope.” 
Fraser presented a check for $12,758.49 to the Saint Mary’s College Dance Marathon from her fundrais­ing at Marian High School 
Summit 
continued from page 1 
vidually discuss specific divi­sions of community-University relations. They addressed transportation, cultural collab­oration, good-neighbor rela­tions and forms of engage­ment. 
“Each group had about five students and five community members, so it was a nice mix of viewpoints on these topics,” Baron said. 
The sub-groups later pre­sented their ideas to the entire Summit, when they were able to receive feedback on specific ideas they had to tackle any of the current challenges involved with community-University relations. 
“It was great because the University leaders who can answer the students’ questions over the past two years. 
Riley Hospital for Children is considered among the best children’s hospitals in the country because it strives for excellence in caring for young patients. 
Five-year-old Abbie Gorski, who suffers from a heart defect, said Dance Marathon is the best part of her year. 
Contact Monica Murphy mmurph01@saintmarys.edu 
and suggestions were present, so we were able to get quick responses on ideas that emerged,” Baron said. 
Among the ideas discussed was the proposition for stu­dents to have a more direct involvement in the distribution of information to local areas. The idea of sub-block captains, where students would work with permanent South Bend residents to do this, was pro­posed. 
“The idea was to help encourage student involvement and interaction on a variety of levels,” Baron said. 
Baron said the committee has put on a lot of great events over the past term, and was excited for how the develop­ments between the University and its neighbors will continue to grow. 
Contact Meghan Manning at mmannin3@nd.edu 
Congo 
continued from page 1 
professor of political science and fellow at the Institute for International Peace Studies, delivered opening remarks about Prendergast’s work. 
“[He is] empowering people in society who are not part of government,” Singh said. “He is reaching out to people who think they do not have a lot to say or do about foreign policy.” 
Prendergast, who has authored eight books about Africa and also worked as a special advisor to the Department of State under the Clinton administration, focused Friday’s talk on the illegal usurpation of minerals and tor­ture in the Congo. 
“Nothing else [is] remotely on par … with the quantity of human misery in the Congo,” he said. “Our standard of living comes at the expense of human beings.” 
Prendergast said minerals like tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold come from the Congo and are used to power electric devices like cell phones and laptops. 
“The Congo has between one-fifth and one-seventh of the world’s tin,” Prendergast said. “It’s for sale, it’s open for business and people are com­ing to take what they will.” 
Militia groups smuggle min­erals out of the Congo and sell them to international markets, Prendergast said, and hun­dreds of millions of dollars fund the groups going in to seize the minerals and force the local people to comply with their demands. 
He told the story of a 57­year-old Congolese woman and schoolteacher who wanted to supplement her salary by sell­ing salt, acquired from local mines. 
She was taken by militiamen and was raped daily before finally escaping after two years. 

“It took a long time for the physical injuries to heal, but even longer for the emotional injuries to heal,” Prendergast said. 
The woman, he said, went on to mentor other women who had experienced situations similar to hers. 
Prendergast said rape is the tool of war in the Congo, much 
like  amputation  in  Sierra  
Leone  and  land  mines  in  
Angola.  

The link between consumer demands of products that uti­lize minerals like tin and the violence that occurs in the Congo is a direct one, Prendergast said, and the job of consumers, therefore, is to demand conflict-free products. 
“People like us have to make people aware that their pur­chases … have an impact on millions and millions of peo­ple,” he said. “We have to tell the companies that are benefit-ting from these [atrocities] that we demand conflict-free prod­ucts.” 
Prendergast said big compa­nies like Apple and Hewlett Packard have the most power to implement “change on the ground.” 
“If we can influence the big dogs they will subsequently put pressure to clean up the process,” he said. “It turns out often they do want to learn about the process and change it.” 
He said the ultimate goal of consumers should be the obtainment of minerals by peaceful and legal means through a global certification scheme. 
Prendergast said a complete boycott of products is an unre­alistic demand and advocates that people instead use their power as consumers and vot­ers to voice a demand for change. 
“We have to demonstrate that there would be a market for conflict-free products,” he said. 
He also encouraged contact­ing elected officials like Sen. 
Prendergast also advocated the move toward a campus free of conflict products. 
“The individual has a certain amount of power but a campus body will have even more influ­ence,” he said. 
Contact Katie Peralta at kperalta@nd.edu 
Richard Lugar, the Republican leader of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, to voice support of legislation favoring a certification scheme of peaceful mineral obtainment. 
Prendergast encouraged audience members to educate family members and friends about the comprehensive con­sumer campaign he advocates. 

“Why do people get involved with causes? The third most popular reason is some kind of clever ad they’re responding to,” he said. “The second rea­son is because a celebrity advocated involvement and the top reason is because a family member or friend asked them.” 

The Observer 

Monday, March 29, 2010 page 7
Business 
MARKET RECAP 


IN BRIEF 

Apple delays release of new iPad 
CUPERTINO, Cali. — Apple Inc.’s iPad tablet computer hits U.S. shelves on Saturday, but fans who want the new touch-screen gadget shipped directly to them must wait a week. 
The company began taking preorders for the iPad on March 12, promising to get the device to eager buyers by its store launch date of April 3rd. Customers who placed pre­orders by March 27 will receive the device by that date, where Saturday delivery is avail­able, but Apple said Sunday that new pre­orders won’t be shipped out until April 12. 
The Cupertino, California, company declined to give a reason for the shipping delay, but said would-be customers can still pre-order the iPad for in-store pickup on April 3, or purchase the device in stores that day. 
The iPads going on sale will connect to Wi-Fi networks only and cost $499, $599 or $699, depending on the data storage capacity. 
Versions that also can connect to “3G” cellu­lar networks are expected to go on sale in late April for $629, $729 or $829. International releases also are planned for later in April. 
British Airways strike continues 
LONDON — British Airways workers took to the picket lines Saturday for a second round of strikes against the struggling airline, causing widespread disruption and frustration among passengers. 
Union officials say 12,000 members are tak­ing part in the four-day strike, which comes only a week after another walkout touched off travel chaos. 
BA has been taking a hard line against strik­ers, and has promised to fly more than three quarters of booked passengers. But its Heathrow services will be severely depleted — down to 55 percent for short haul and 70 per­cent for long haul — as the dispute over pay and changes to working conditions trudges on. 
“This is the second part of the biggest con­tingency plan we have ever launched and our aim will continue to be to fly as many cus­tomers as we can,” the airline said in a state­ment. 
Both the airline and the union say they are willing to return to negotiations, but there is little sign of reconciliation from either side. 
SWEDEN 

Geely to buy Volvo from Ford 
Independent automaker purchases company for $1.8 billion; looks to upgrade image 
Associated Press  
STOCKHOLM — Zhejiang  
Geely Holding Group signed  
a binding deal Sunday to buy  
Ford Motor Co.’s Volvo Cars  
unit for $1.8 billion, repre­ 
senting a coup for the inde­ 
pendent Chinese automaker  
which is aiming to expand in  
Europe.  
The stock purchase agree­ 
ment is subject to regulatory  
approvals and is expected to  
be completed in the third  
quarter, representatives of  
the two automakers said as  
they presented the deal at a  
news conference at Volvo  
Cars headquarters in  
Goteborg, on Sweden’s west  
coast.  
The agreement was signed  
by Geely’s chairman, Li  
Shufu and Ford Chief  
Financial Officer Lewis  
Booth, and witnessed by Li  
Yizhong, the Chinese minis­ 
ter of industry and informa­ 
tion technology, as well as  
Swedish Minister for  
Enterprise and Energy Maud  
Olofsson.  
The transaction will be  
made through a $200 million  
note, while the remainder  
will be paid out in cash,  
Booth said at the Webcast  
news conference. AP  
“We think it’s a fair price Li Shufu, chairman of Geely Holding Group, and Lewis Booth, executive vice president of  
for a good business, and yes, Ford, shake hands at the Volvo plant and headquarters in Torslanda, Sweden, on Sunday.  
we’re happy with the deal  
we’ve achieved with Geely,”  Geely said it aims to keep  they are finding keen buyers  awaited Volvo acquisition is  
he said, adding that his com­ Volvo’s existing manufactur­ in Asia.  therefor important for the  
pany believes that, under  ing facilities in Sweden and  In 2008, Ford sold its  company, which has gradu- 
Geely, “Volvo can continue to  Belgium, but that it will also  Jaguar and Land Rover  ally built its business with lit- 
build its business and return  explore manufacturing  brands to India’s Tata Motors  tle government support.  
to profitability.”  opportunities in China.  Ltd. for $1.7 billion, a third  Analyst Zhang Xin, with  
The deal also covers fur­ “China, the largest car  of what it paid for them. In  Guotai Junan Securities in  
ther agreements on intellec­ market in the world, will  addition, General Motors Co.  Beijing, said Geely has  
tual property rights, supply,  become Volvo’s second home  attempted to sell its rugged  pledged to keep Volvo’s fac­ 
and research and develop- market. Volvo will be  Hummer brand to a Chinese  tory and business teams in  
ment arrangements between  uniquely positioned as a  heavy equipment maker, but  Sweden after the takeover,  
Volvo Cars, Geely and Ford.  world-leading premium  is now winding that brand  limiting its leeway to cut  
Li, whose comments were  brand, tapping into the  down as the deal collapsed.  costs.  
translated by an interpreter,  opportunities in the fast­ China’s Beijing Automotive  Volvo, whose first car left  
described the deal as “a  growing China market,” Li  Industry Holdings has also  its Swedish factory in 1927,  
milestone” for both Geely  said.  agreed to buy some power- employs nearly 20,000 work- 
and Volvo, adding his group  Ford, which bought Volvo  train technology from GM’s  ers, most of them based in  
will make a Volvo CEO public  Cars from AB Volvo in 1999  Swedish Saab unit.  Sweden. The group, initially  
“in due course.”  for $6.45 billion, has been  Geely, an independent  a subsidiary of ballberaing  
In a statement, Geely said  trying to sell the unit since  automaker that has strug­ maker SKF, was listed on the  
it has secured all the financ­ late 2008 to focus its  gled to upgrade its image in  stock exchange in 1935.  
ing necessary to complete  resources on managing its  overseas markets, has long  In 2009, it sold 334,808  
the deal, as well as “signifi­ core Ford, Lincoln and  coveted a bigger foothold in  cars. It currently has 10  
cant working capital facilities  Mercury brands.  Europe and has earlier been  models on the global market,  
to fund Volvo Cars’ ongoing  As Western automakers  rumored to be bidding for  with its cross-over XC60  
business.”  unload unprofitable assets,  Opel and Saab. The long- being the best-seller.  

Energy company eyes Utah’s oil sands 
meltdown. researchers and regulators that it has 
Associated Press 

Earth Energy said it is “de-risking” equipment capable of producing bitu-
SALT LAKE CITY — An energy com-the project to lure investors. men from the oil sands. pany with government approvals to “Until we raise our capital, we are With oil hovering around $80 a barrel launch the first significant U.S. oil sands unable to proceed with the project in — it bottomed out around $32 a year project is trying to raise money to build any major way, but the minute we do, ago — unconventional fuels are looking a plant in eastern Utah that would turn we are fully prepared and committed to more practical. Still, political, economic out 2,000 barrels of oil a day. advance,” D. Glen Snarr, president and and environmental hurdles remain. 
Earth Energy Resources Inc. has a chief financial officer, told The The Obama administration has been state lease to work a 62-acre pit in Associated Press by e-mail. slow to lease large tracts of federal land Uintah County, where it has demon-Regulators say the company has for oil shale or tar sands development. strated technology that can extract oil obtained all permits necessary to open Utah is more willing to lease its state out of sands using a proprietary solvent the first U.S. oil sands surface mine lands, however, and Earth Energy joins it calls environmentally friendly. designed for producing bitumen, a tar-a neighbor on state lands, Salt Lake 
But first, the Calgary, Alberta-based like form of petroleum. For decades City-based Red Leaf Resources Inc., company says it needs to raise $35 mil-other Utah operators have used oil which is working on a small scale to lion, and it acknowledged that could be sands as a poor-man’s asphalt. develop the region’s oil-shale tough because private equity groups Snarr offered no timetable, but the reserves. Red Leaf also is looking for turned skittish after the 2008 economic company has demonstrated for officials, investors to ramp up production. 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
page 8 Monday, March 29, 2010 
THE OBSERVER 
P.O. Box 779, Notre Dame, IN 46556 024 South Dining Hall, Notre Dame, IN 46556 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 
Matt Gamber 

MANAGING EDITOR BUSINESS MANAGER 
Madeline Buckley Stacey Gill 
ASST. MANAGING EDITOR: Laura Myers 
NEWS EDITOR: Sarah Mervosh 
VIEWPOINT EDITOR: Michelle Maitz 

SPORTS EDITOR: Douglas Farmer 
SCENE EDITOR: Jordan Gamble 

SAINT MARY’S EDITOR: Ashley Charnley 
PHOTO EDITOR: Pat Coveney 

GRAPHICS EDITOR: Blair Chemidlin 
ADVERTISING MANAGERS: 
Theresa Bea 

Mary Clare Rodriguez 
AD DESIGN MANAGER: Jaclyn Espinoza 
CONTROLLER: Patrick Sala 
SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATOR: Steve Lagree 
OFFICE MANAGER & GENERAL INFO 
(574) 631-7471 
FAX 
(574) 631-6927 
ADVERTISING 

(574) 631-6900 observad@nd.edu 
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF 

(574) 631-4542 mgamber@nd.edu 
MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4541 mbuckley@nd.edu 
ASSISTANT MANAGING EDITOR 

(574) 631-4324 lmyers2@nd.edu 
BUSINESS OFFICE 
(574) 631-5313 
NEWS DESK 

(574) 631-5323 obsnews@nd.edu 
VIEWPOINT DESK 

(574) 631-5303 viewpoint.1@nd.edu 
SPORTS DESK 

(574) 631-4543 observersports@gmail.com 
SCENE DESK 

(574) 631-4540 jgamble@nd.edu 
SAINT MARY’S DESK 
acharn01@saintmarys.edu 
PHOTO DESK 

(574) 631-8767 pcoveney@nd.edu 
SYSTEMS & WEB ADMINISTRATORS 
(574) 631-8839 
THE 

observerOnline 
www.ndsmcobserver.com 
POLICIES 

The Observer is the independent, daily newspaper published in print and online by the students of the University of Notre Dame du Lac and Saint Mary’s College. Editorial content, including advertisements, is not governed by policies of the administration of either institution. The Observer reserves the right to refuse advertisements based on content. 
The news is reported as accurately and objectively as possible. Unsigned editorials represent the opinion of the majority of the Editor in Chief, Managing Editor, Assistant Managing Editors and department editors. Commentaries, letters and columns present the views of the authors and not necessarily those of The Observer. 
Viewpoint space is available to all readers. The free expression of all opinions through letters is encouraged. Letters to the Editor must be signed and must include contact information. 
Questions regarding Observer policies should be directed to Editor-in-Chief Matt Gamber. 
POST OFFICE INFORMATION 

The Observer (USPS 599 2-4000) is published Monday through Friday except during exam and vacation periods. A subscription to The Observer is $120 for one academic year; $65 for one semester. 
The Observer is published at: POSTMASTER 024 South Dining Hall Send address corrections to: Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 The Observer Periodical postage paid at Notre Dame P.O. Box 779 and additional mailing offices. 024 South Dining Hall 
Notre Dame, IN 46556-0779 
The Observer is a member of the Associated Press. All reproduction rights are reserved. 
TODAY’S STAFF 

News Viewpoint 
Ashley Charnley Lianna Kristen Durbin Brauweiler Emily Schrank Sports Graphics Douglas Farmer Mary Cecilia Matt Robison Mitsch Tim Singler Scene Alex Kilpatrick 
The Yellow Brick Road 
The U.S. response to Israel’s recent announcement of 1,600 new Jewish homes in east Jerusalem has been cool. Both Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and Vice President Joe Biden have criticized these plans as well 
James Napier
as the timing of the announcement. It 
Demarcating 
seems to be no 
Democracy

coincidence that the announcement came just after Palestinians agreed to indirect negotiations with Israel. Furthermore, Prime Minister Netanyahu has made it very clear he is no fan of a two-state solution. It is not enough to criticize Israel for this very clear land grab; Israel needs American support, surely America can exert more pressure to bring Israel to the negotiating table. 
Before discussing recent events any further, it may help to briefly contextu­alize the situation. East Jerusalem is not recognized as Israeli territory. In fact, almost every country but Israel recognizes it as Palestinian land. Since the Israeli announcement, Mahmoud Abbas, leader of the Palestinian Authority (PA), has refused to negoti­ate until Israel freezes settlement building, which includes building in east Jerusalem. A settlement is a Jewish community which has been established by the Israeli government — or at least with its tacit approval — on land recognized as belonging to the Palestinians. Initially, Netanyahu refused to freeze any settlement build­ing but finally agreed in November to a moratorium, exempting Jerusalem, after months of pressure from the White House. 
Exerting pressure does not mean Israel should be viewed as anything other than an ally; after all, even good 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 
friends have disagreements from time to time. Rather, one should ask why America is hesitant to lean on Israel even when Israel explicitly acts against 
U.S. interests. America literally gives $3 billion every year to Israel and has consistently defended Israel against a hostile United Nations and internation­al community. Some have suggested withholding funding would irreparably threaten U.S.-Israeli relations, howev­er history shows this concern to be unjustified. Threatening to withhold aid has worked in the past to bring Israel into line and there is no reason to suspect it will not work in the cur­rent debacle. The most famous exam­ple is when the United States con­vinced Israel to enter the Oslo Accords by withholding aid. 
While the Oslo Accords were not the heralding of a better period in Palestinian-Israeli relations, negotia­tion still remains in the best interests of Israel, America and the PA. Freezing settlements in east Jerusalem and entering negotiations will signal to Israel’s neighbors that she is willing to work cooperatively for a sustainable and peaceful future. Furthermore, since Israel is seen by many in the Arab world as America’s client state, negotiations, even if only marginally successful, may increase America’s standing in the Arab world. Lastly, Palestinians would also benefit from negotiations as they would help reduce the West’s image of the Palestinians as terrorists. 
America and Israel have had a long and mutually beneficial relationship. The two countries have worked togeth­er on political issues and even shared technologies and carried out research together. However, Palestinians cannot be blamed for the most recent failure in peace negotiations. They quite rea­sonably understand the recent settle­ment announcement as a land grab to prevent east Jerusalem from ever being incorporated into a future Palestinian state. If a peaceful two-state solution is ever to be realized then both sides must compromise. 
One can understand why Israel wants to unite all of Jerusalem under its control but the simple fact is that settlements are just as bad for Israel as they are for Palestinians. For many Palestinians, settlements are the prime symbol of Israeli dominance and lust for control. In essence they stand for all the reasons Palestinians believe they cannot trust the Israeli govern­ment. Like it or not, Palestinians will be Israel’s neighbors for a long time to come and Israel should make attempts to increase good will amongst its neighbors. Of course, Israel has a right to defend itself but it seems settle­ments make Israel less secure by increasing despair and feelings of dis­enfranchisement amongst the Palestinian people. 
Currently, Israel is headed by a hard right-wing government which makes compromise very difficult. This is where the United States comes into play. No one wants to lose out on free money. Thus, America should make its grants (still free money) contingent on freezing settlements and entering into negotiations with the PA. To stop at merely calling the building project in east Jerusalem an “insult” is the true insult both to regional stability and the Palestinian people. 
James Napier is a senior history major. He can be contacted at jnapier@nd.edu 
The views expressed in this column are those of the author and not necessarily those of The Observer. 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“Count Hermann Keyserlingonce said truly that the greatestAmerican superstition wasbelief in facts.” 
John Gunther 
U.S. journalist 

QUOTE OF THE DAY 
“We must always change, renew, rejuvenate ourselves;otherwise we harden.” 
Johann Wolfgang von GoetheGerman writer 
The Observer 

Viewpoint 
Monday, March 29, 2010 page 9 
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR 
Lenten candlelight dinner in poor taste 
I’m writing in to express my disappointment with the dining halls’ decision to have a candlelight dinner on March 26 (Friday in Passiontide and the Commemoration of the Seven Sorrows of the Blessed Virgin Mary). 
The Church imposes the discipline of forbidding meat on Fridays as a penance, not as something chic that Catholics get to do. Ideally Friday abstinence should be augmented by prayer, fasting, almsgiving and above all a spirit of sacrifice; to that end, for centuries (and up until the 1960s) fasting was required not just on Ash Wednesday and Good Friday but on every day (except Sundays) of Lent. This prepared the Christian faithful to more fully appreciate the season of Easter, when fasting ceased and feasting with the risen Bridegroom commenced. 
Given this, the idea of a “Lenten buffet” on a Friday in Lent, wherein one could indulge in such things as swordfish steak, is in terribly poor taste. Symptomatic of this poor taste was the placing of the cross and crown of thorns above the dessert table — the two sym­bols that should most exhort us to the sacrifice of self. 
The Church’s liturgical calendar operates in cycles that reflect the spiritual life; one must fast before one feasts, just as one must endure the struggles of earthly life before entering the blessed joy of Heaven. Feasting during Lent only serves to extinguish the blessed joy that comes with the Solemnity of all solemnities, Easter. 
Dale Parker 
freshman 
Morrissey Hall 
March 28 

Please MediCARE 
As an only child of senior citizen parents, I also have a unique perspective on the health care debate, like cancer survivor Aidan Fitzgerald (“A plea to a mostly competent student body: True Reform,” March 24). 
Being the daughter of “grandparents” can be fun — I’ve been the only employed family mem­ber since age 13 so they’re available to call whenever they can find the “talk” button. I’ll never need to stress about them having Facebooks. When I was six we skipped every line at Disney due to Mom’s wheelchair. I’m talented at finding hearing aids and fake teeth — and thus lucky pen­nies. 
But elderly life consists of more than where-are-my-glasses games. Like many stereotypes, sen­iors get labeled hypertensive, arthritic and grouchy. It’s not unfounded — I’m not the one in the family who swears over spilt milk. I also know their treatment is expensive and it’d be a lot to ask for ObamaCare to help us more than Medicare already does. However, I want something a bill may never bring. 
Last May, Dad had three strokes. He is diabetic (genetically). The hospital’s physicians kept test­ing him for heart disease — tests he’s had so many times, all proving his heart is as good as mine. His diabetes was outright ignored. They fed him sugar. His blood glucose shot up to near-coma levels. Many Medicare patients don’t receive the care someone with “real” insurance does, because Medicare doesn’t pay as much. It’s my hope that attempting to equalize healthcare may equalize how much attention doctors pay to their patients. 
Also, as a biology major, I’d like to ask all applying to medical school to pick your ObamaCare battles wisely. The only negative argument I’ve heard so far is “Will my salary pay for med school?” Of course it will — you’ll be a Notre Dame grad and a doctor. If money is your priority, do something else. I’m not supporting or condemning the bill, but please criticize constructively. I understand med school is your main concern — my main concern is Dad being at graduation. Please remember your future patients, too. 
Liz Devany 
junior McGlinn Hall March 26 

End of judgment, beginning of tolerance 
I was disturbed by the Inside Column of March 25 (“End of Absence,” Andrew Owens) about the return of Tiger Woods to the PGA. Owens’ sentence “Just because people thought he had a nice smile ... does not mean he is a good person” implies indeed that because of his past transgressions, like Kobe Bryant, Tiger Woods is a bad person. I would strongly disagree. As not only a Catholic, but also as a member of the population of a country based on the belief in second chances, I believe Owens confuses a bad person with a human being — that is, all of us are prone to make mistakes and deserve forgiveness and a second chance. Does he presume that his future will be mistake-free or that these inevitable mistakes will make him a bad person? Being in a Catholic community where the hallmarks of our daily living should be tolerance and forgiveness, I would hope that we would allow Tiger Woods, just as we would allow any member of our community, a second chance. His winning is simply evidence of his ability to start over. Our applause means that we are not judging, but rather giving him the abil­ity to go on with his life and prove himself again, which is what every human being deserves. 
Felicia Caponigri 
junior off campus March 25 

Why the pope should step down 
“Cases of this kind are subject to the pontifical secret,” then-Cardinal Ratzinger wrote in a letter to Catholic bishops in 2001. At that time he headed the Congregation for the Doctrine of the Faith, an institution whose role in handling cases of allegations of child rape by priests has proved to have been one of protecting the perpetrators more than the victims. 
After the scandals in the U.S. and Ireland with tens of thousands of abuse cases, the next wave of victims breaking their silence is surfacing now in Germany, Ratzinger’s country of origin. As archbishop of the dio­cese of Munich and Freising, he was directly involved in a decision to let a priest who had been relocated there after allegations of child abuse to con­tinue working with children and teenagers, even though the priest’s psy­chiatrist warned the diocese to not let him have unsupervised contact with children. 
As it turns out the priest continued to rape children and was found guilty of child abuse in 1986 by a German court. He was not suspended by the Catholic church until the beginning of March of this year. 
Given the pope’s direct involvement in the embarassing handling of abuse cases in the past and his position as the leader of an organization that claims to have moral authority, he should weigh accepting personal responsibility and showing compassion for the victims against the desire to cling to the immense power of the papacy. 
So far we have not been given any reason to doubt he favors the latter. 
Andreas Best 
grad student off campus March 25 
EDITORIAL CARTOON 



The Observer 

Scene
page 10 Monday, March 29, 2010 
By ANKUR CHAWLA 
Scene Writer 
away the punch line of the 
movie, “Hot Tub Time Machine” 
surprisingly turned out to be 
one of the funni­
est movies of 

the year. travel aspects 
Unlike 
“Snakes on a 
Plane,” this movie 
delivered much 
more than time trav­

el and a Jacuzzi. Rob Corddry When Lou attempts to commit 

(“The Daily Show”) provides a 
very “Allen from the Hangover”­
like performance, making the 
movie what it was, and John 
Cusack (“Serendipity”) and 
Craig Robinson (“The Office”) 
also star in this tastefully crude 
comedy. From the opening scene, the 
movie entertains and makes the 
audience laugh. We see Nick 
(Robinson) working at a dog-
grooming salon, walking a dog on a mini treadmill. After dis­emboweling a customer’s canine, Adam (Cusack) and Lou (Corddry) are introduced. Both 


suicide, Adam and Nick decide to take him to Kodiak Valley, the resort where they spent their teenage years partying. They arrive only to find the entire city run down, the hotel filled with cats and the bellhop left with one arm. Trying to have a good time despite all of that, they go into a hot tub. Needless to say, the hot tub ends up being a time machine and takes the four of them back to “Winterfest 1986.” 
After realiz­ing they have traveled in time, Jacob informs the group they need to try to do everything exactly as they had before to prevent the butt erfly effect. While trying to relive their 
past and makes billions by cre­
ating “Lougle” (instead of 
Google) and founding the band “Motley Lou.” Despite being a quality come­dy, “Hot Tub Time Machine” was by no means perfect. The time were without a doubt outlandish, and the repairman 
(Chevy Chase) wasn’t very well developed. A bit more in the beginning of the movie explaining the characters would have been nice, and (SPOILER ALERT!) it seemed odd that the “Cincinnati Box” from the trailers (and in the movie) was never 
explained. But still, for a comedy, “Hot Tub Time Machine” deliv­ered more than could have been asked for. 


This movie is a bet-use of $7.50 than three pounds of chocolate toffee covered pretzels from The Huddle and will make you laugh more than clever 
answers to The Observer’s question of the day. The only thing that could have really made “Hot Tub Time Machine” better would have been a hot tub in the theater to sit in while watching the movie. 
Contact Ankur Chawla at 
achawla@nd.edu 
time at Winterfest, Nick, Adam and Lou each try to change their past for the better, ignor­ing their pact. Lou discovers he 
Denver Broncos beat­ing the Cleveland Browns with “The Drive.” 
In 1980s fashion, conflict emerges between the ski patrol and the four main characters. The ski patrol suspects the four of being 

because of their gadgets from the future and because they recently watched “Red Dawn.” Like the Russian spies they were not, they go 
to his adult life, Lou stays in the 

By TATIANA SPRAGINS  salsa with contemporary Latin music (namely reggaeton), or  fits that continued the fantas­t i c a l t h e m e o f t h e n i g h t .  ened the impact of this unique event.  in the program. An interesting part of the  
Scene Writer  if it were  Another inter- Of the eight groups to  sho w,  as  for  m o s t  cu ltur al  



greeting us at the entrance, the one-night-only perform­ance Royale was packed The venue 
show. 
Latin dances and music, this year’s Latin Expressions seemed to focus less traditions from different Latin countries and more on creating a dance show. Beginning with an outstanding, goose bumps worthy Opera performance by senior Josh Diaz, the show went on with several differ­ent dance perform ances completely organized by the very students doing the dance (who had to rehearse and audition to make it to the show) and some musical acts, sung and played also by the students. For the dance performances, the groups normally danced to a mix of 

only one couple on stage, esting and characteriz­
was that they no rma lly had some sort of a plot, which added to the fun 
of the 
show. For exampl e, 
sees boy 
and boy 
used in 
of the fun, 
sexy and 
— 
at and in a variety of performanc­es, from a Folkloric dance to Opera, the act to follow less-

present, only three portrayed some aspect of the Latin cul­ture. Project Fresh and the First Class Steppers constitut­ed a significant portion of the second half, and although these groups are always jaw dropping and fun to watch, their performances weren’t pertinent enough to the pur­pose of the show for the time it was given. Other perform­ances, such as one musical performance that did not per­tain to Latin culture and a magic show may have been highly entertaining and amus­ing – but were not very rele­vant. The focus on the Latin culture seen in the first act was lost after the intermis­sion. 
There were many aspects of the event that differed from last year’s Latin Expressions and made a significant differ­ence in this year’s perform­ance. One such aspect was the division of the acts by specific cultures and countries. Although some were evidently specific to a particular culture (for example, “Al son de Mexico” [to the sound of Mexico] by MariachiND), most of the acts were not, or at least were not made specific events here at Notre Dame, was learning the differences between each different coun­try by watching people either sing or dance to a typical song or dance of that place. For example, in Asian Allure, each performance was intro­duced by its name and coun­try of origin. Although this may not be as easy to differ­entiate in Latin America as in Asia, some slight distinction or an effort to highlight tradi­tional cultural songs or dances from a specific region would have made for a more comprehensive show. 
Nonetheless, the show was evidently rehearsed many times because it all flowed smoothly. The dances were very well executed and the singers were wonderful. On top of this, the two people who walked on stage in between most acts were packed with clever jokes, which got plenty of laughs from the crowd. So if you did-n’t make it this year, don’t forget to make it next time. It’s definitely not a show to be missed. 
Contact Tatiana Spragins at tspragin@nd.edu 
MARY CECILIA MITSCH | Observer Graphic 
The Observer 

Scene
Monday, March 29, 2010 page 11 

MARY CECILIA MITSCH | Observer Graphic 

page 12 The Observer  CLASSIFIEDS Monday, March 29, 2010 
NCAA BASKETBALL 

Michigan State, Duke advance to Final Four 
“But we’re also hot right now. 
Associated Press 

We’re playing some of our best 
ST. LOUIS — The players come basketball.” and go, the years pass. About Michigan State is the only the only thing that doesn’t team from last year’s Final Four change is Tom Izzo and to make it back. Heck, North Michigan State’s mastery in Carolina, which demolished the March. Spartans in the title game, didn’t 
The fifth-seeded Spartans are even make the NCAA tourna­on their way to their second ment. Neither did Connecticut, straight Final Four and sixth in and Villanova was knocked out 12 years after Raymar Morgan’s in the second round. free throw with less than 2 sec-How’s this for some symme­onds left lifted Michigan State to try? This happens to be the 10th a 70-69 victory over Tennessee anniversary of the “Flintstones,” in the Midwest Regional final the team that gave Michigan Sunday. State its second national title. 
“There is nothing greater than Highlights from that run were going to a Final Four that I know included in the video montage of of,” Izzo said, “except winning past championships that played it.” on the Edward Jones Dome’s 
No team in the country — not massive Jumbotron during half-North Carolina, not Kansas, not time. UCLA, not Kentucky — has been The Spartans (28-8) led by as better during the Spartans’ run. many as eight in the second half, And all six of those trips have but Brian Williams pulled sixth-come under Izzo, the hard-nosed seeded Tennessee (28-9) within coach who preaches defense, 69-68 on a putback with 2:10 rebounding, defense, physical left. Korie Lucious, who took play, and have we mentioned over as point guard after 2009 defense? Big Ten player of the year Kalin what it came down to.” of-5 shooting, and Williams had absence for coach Mike 
Izzo, who took over from long-Lucas ruptured his Achilles’ ten-Prince wasn’t even close, and 11. Krzyzewski’s team — and keep-time mentor Jud Heathcote for don last weekend, missed the Michigan State and its fans — “It’s going to stick with us,” ing No. 1 seeds from being shut the 1995-96 season, is 6-1 in the front end of a 1-and-1 with 29 led by Johnson, the Spartan-in-senior Bobby Maze said. out of the title chase. regional finals. His only loss was seconds left and Scotty Hopson chief — began the celebration “Anytime we watch college Nolan Smith scored 29 points to top-seeded Texas in 2003. got the rebound. that’s practically become a rite games or during tournament and the Blue Devils returned to 
“Tom Izzo does his best in the Hopson was fouled at the other of spring. time, we’ll always come back to college basketball’s big event for NCAA tournament,” said Magic end, and made the first. But “What’s unique is it’s been a that very moment where we the first time in six years by Johnson, who sat in the after a Michigan State timeout, little bit more bumpy road,” Izzo were just too short.” beating Baylor 78-71 on Sunday Michigan State cheering section he missed the second and said. Tennessee has long been a in the South Regional final, halt-and embraced Izzo after the Lucious — generously listed at Bumpy? More like missing big basketball powerhouse — in ing the Bears’ charming run to game. “He loves the big moment. 5-foot-11 — ended up with the chunks of asphalt. women’s hoops. But coach Bruce college basketball redemption. He understands what he needs rebound. Morgan was fouled by While Izzo is a master at Pearl has energized the men’s Jon Scheyer added 20 points to do against every team. He J.P. Prince with 1.8 seconds left reloading on the fly, this might program, as evidenced by the for Duke (33-5), which became comes up with a great game and made the first. After time-have been his toughest test. In orange-hued dome and the Vols’ the only No. 1 seed to advance to plan every single time. He outs by both teams, Morgan addition to Lucas’ injury, Delvon first appearance in the regional Indianapolis and earned its 11th deserves all the credit in the bricked the second shot on pur-Roe is playing on a torn menis-final. Few would have thought Final Four trip under world.” pose. cus and Chris Allen is nursing an the Tennessee men would last Krzyzewski. 
The Spartans, last year’s Williams came up with the aching foot. longer than the top-seeded In the national semifinals for national runner-up, will be look-rebound and Tennessee called a The Spartans have been forced women, who were beaten by No. the first time since 2004, the ing for championship No. 3 next quick timeout. But Prince fum-to go with an offense-by-commit-4 Baylor on Saturday in the Blue Devils will play East weekend in Indianapolis. They bled the inbounds pass and had tee but, somehow, it works. regional semifinals. Regional champion West play Butler, also a No. 5 seed to heave up a prayer from mid-Durrell Summers, who’s taken “We came to St. Louis expect-Virginia on Saturday night. They and sure to be the hometown court just before the buzzer. over the bulk of the scoring, fin-ing to win two games and we have won 11 of their last 12 favorite, in the semifinals “It’s just tough, 1 second,” ished with 21 points on 8-of-10 played pretty well both nights,” regional finals under Saturday night. Prince said. “You want to shoot shooting despite playing just 9 Pearl said. “We saw all that Krzyzewski, but haven’t won a 
“They’re hot right now. it perfect but you’ve got to rush. minutes in the first half because orange out there. This isn’t close national title since 2001. They’re playing some of their You don’t want it to come down of foul trouble. Morgan and to home, either. They got in their Coach K made his first Final best basketball,” Morgan said. to a half-court shot, but that’s Draymond Green added 13 each, car and they drove here. I think Four with Duke in 1986 and 
and Morgan also had 10 they enjoyed this group tremen-hadn’t had this long of a gap rebounds. dously.” between trips. 
“Things happen throughout Though they were going “We played against a great the season,” Summers said. against a team that oozes expe-team,” Krzyzewski said. “It was “Once we got to tournament rience — “Final Fours are a big such a well-played game, and time, we said we’ll have a fresh thing in this program,” Green we were fortunate to win.” start.” said Saturday — the Vols came Smith and Scheyer helped the 
Tennessee, meanwhile, will in with swagger and strut. Blue Devils offset a poor game have to take comfort in knowing But confidence is no match for from junior forward Kyle Singler, it got further than any other toughness, and few can match who was 0 for 10 from the field Volunteers team. This was their that of Michigan State. and made only five free throws. first appearance in the regional “I said (before the game), ‘You It was the first time in his college finals, and there is no question put yourself in a position where career he failed to hit a field they belonged. They made their you have a chance to do some-goal. first six shots of the game — thing you talked about,’” Izzo LaceDarius Dunn had 22 going 4 for 4 from 3-point range, said. “Not many people get a points and Ekpe Udoh scored 18 shot 51 percent overall and had chance to do that.” for the Bears (28-8), whose pro-four players in double figures, gram was in shambles when led by senior Wayne Chism’s 13 Duke 78, Baylor 71 coach Scott Drew took over in points. Duke is back in the Final the wake of murder and scandal 
Prince finished with 12 on 5-Four, ending an unusually long less than seven years ago. 


The Observer accepts classifieds every business day from 8 a.m. to 3 p.m. at the Notre Dame office, 024 South Dining Hall.  Deadline for next-day classifieds is 3 p.m.  All classifieds must be prepaid. 
The charge is 5 cents per character per day, including all spaces. The Observer reserves the right to edit all classifieds for content without issuing refunds. 
CLASSIFIEDS 
Design experience is not necessary you can see campus from the yard! Cleaning By Maria but a plus.
WANTED FOR RENT Email alexrock@rock.com! PERSONAL 954-657-1898 
——————————————— SUMMER SALES INTERNSHIP Send resume to ATTN: Grad Student-faculty. Homes, Apartments, Offices with an energetic start up company. mmurtaghm@aol.com 2 bdrm, 1 ba home close to ND. UNPLANNED PREGNANCY? Do Affordable and Reliable 
——————————————— Spacious 2-bdrm, 2.5 bath home, not go it alone. Notre Dame has ——————————————— Must have strong communications, $675/mo. LR, DR, FR, Florida Room. many resources in place to assist If you or someone you care about computer, and time management WANTED, Apple iPhone SDK devel-you. If you or someone you love has been sexually assaulted, we skills. opers. Utilities not included. 313-382-0536. needs confidential support or assis-can help. 
——————————————— Fenced yard, 2-car garage.Security. tance, please call Sr. Sue Dunn at Benefits include flexible location gradrentals.viewwork.com 1-7819 or Ann Firth at 1-2685. For For more information, visit Notre and work schedule for 20 self-moti-——————————————— Near ND. more information, visit ND's web Dame's website: vated ND students who enjoy team House 3 bed, 3 bath, site: http://pregnancysupport.nd.edu competition. Contact daniel@miSoft.com. new rehab/clean, so close to ND 262-332-0015. http.csap.nd.edu ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— ——————————————— 
Around theNation 
Compiled from The Observer’s wire services 
Monday, March 29, 2010 page 13 
Division I Men’s Baseball Baseball America 
team previous 
1 Virginia 1 2 LSU 2 3 Texas 3 4 Georgia Tech 4 5 Florida St. 6 6 Florida 5 7 TCU 7 8 Coastal Caro. 8 9 Rice 9 10 Louisville 10 11 Arizona St. 12 12 Clemson 13 13 East Carolina 14 14 Arkansas 17 15 UCLA 19 16 UC Irvine 11 17 North Carolina 20 18 Mississippi 21 19 South Carolina 15 20 Miami (Fla.) 16 21 Oregon St. 22 22 Kentucky 23 23 Stanford 24 24 Vanderbilt NR 25 Oklahoma NR 
Women’s Division I Softball ESPN.com / USA Softball 
team  previous  
1  Washington  1  
2  Arizona  2  
3  Michigan  4  
4  Missouri  3  
5  Alabama  5  
6  UCLA  6T  
7  Georgia  6T  
8  Georgia Tech  9  
9  Oklahoma  8  
10  Stanford  11  
11  Arizona St.  10  
12  LSU  14  
13  Florida  13  
14  California  12  
15  Texas  15  
16  Oklahoma St.  17  
17  Texas A&M  20  
18  Florida St.  19  
19  North Carolina  16  
20  Illinois  22  
21  Tennessee  21  
22  Ohio St.  17  
23  Baylor  24  
24  Louisville  23  
25  Oregon  25  

NHL 


Pittsburgh hopes to host Winter Classic 
Associated Press 

PITTSBURGH — Pittsburgh is making a strong push to play host to the NHL’s next Winter Classic on Jan. 1, matching the league’s two signature stars in the Penguins’ Sidney Crosby and the Capitals’ Alex Ovechkin at Heinz Field. 
The Penguins played in the first Winter Classic played on 
U.S. ice in Buffalo in 2008, but the Crosby-Ovechkin rivalry has become so big that the NHL is believed to be favoring a second Penguins appearance in four years. 
A person with knowledge of the discussions told The Associated Press on Sunday that Pittsburgh is in a strong position to be chosen as the host. 
The league commonly does not reveal the Winter Classic site until after the Stanley Cup playoffs, but league offi­cials and the Penguins have not denied speculation the game will be played in the Steelers’ stadium. Penguins president David Morehouse began lobbying for the game in discussions with NHL com­missioner Gary Bettman months ago. 
Penguins officials declined Sunday to discuss a possible Winter Classic in Pittsburgh. 
However, Pittsburgh city officials are pushing hard for the city to be chosen, and the Steelers are amenable to playing the game at Heinz Field. 
Previously, the Pittsburgh Pirates lobbied for a Winter Classic at PNC Park, but its capacity of 38,496 is far below Heinz Field’s 65,050 and thus would generate far less revenue, and it is not being considered. 
Yankee Stadium was dis­cussed as a possible Winter Classic site next season, until the stadium landed a college bowl game that will be played the week after Christmas. 
A Ovechkin-Crosby out­doors game would offer the NHL’s much attractive matchup. 
Crosby and Ovechkin have combined to win the last three MVP awards — Crosby in 2007, Ovechkin in 2008 and 2009-and the two Eastern Conference players have formed the NHL’s equiv­alent of the NBA’s Kobe Bryant-LeBron James rivalry. 
The Penguins and Capitals met in the playoffs last sea­son, with the Penguins rally­ing to win one of the league’s most competitive early round series in years by taking Game 7 in Washington. 
Ovechkin and Crosby also were rivals during the recent Winter Olympics, with Crosby-led Canada beating Ovechkin-led Russia 7-3 in the quarterfinals en route to winning the gold medal. 
Capitals coach Bruce Boudreau said he has no problems with his team being selected for the game, although he’d liked to see Washington considered as the host city. 
IN BRIEF 

Gardenhire will try 
options to fill closer role 
FORT MYERS, Fla. — It’s looking more and more like just one Minnesota Twin will not be enough to take Joe Nathan’s place. 
Manager Ron Gardenhire said on Sunday that, barring a trade this week, the Twins will start the regu­lar season with a closer-by-commit­tee approach. 
“If we decide to go with one guy as we go along, we’ll go with one guy,’ Gardenhire said before the Twins played the Boston Red Sox on Sunday. “But we’re going to start out and we’re going to look at a lot of different people and we’ll see what happens. We’ve got about three or four different guys we can go to.” 
The plan right now is for relievers Matt Guerrier, Jon Rauch, Jesse Crain and Jose Mijares to all get time in the ninth inning early in the season depending on matchups and performance. 
Florida’s Meyer apologizes 
for remark to beat writer 
GAINESVILLE, Fla. — Florida coach Urban Meyer apologized Saturday to the reporter he berated earlier this week for publishing a quote by one of his players. 
Meyer spent more than 20 min­utes with the Orlando Sentinel’s Jeremy Fowler following spring practice. 
Fowler declined to divulge details of the discussion, but called it a “constructive” conversation and said he accepted Meyer’s apology. Meyer did not speak with reporters. 
Meyer lashed out at Fowler on Wednesday, calling him a “bad guy” and threatening to ban the newspa­per for publishing a quote in which receiver Deonte Thompson called John Brantley a “real quarterback.” 
Thompson meant to say that Brantley was a more conventional or prototypical passer than Tim Tebow. 
New Pinstripe Bowl to be 
played in Yankee Stadium 
TORONTO — The International Bowl is folding after failing to renew its contract with the Big East. 
The only bowl game played out­side the U.S. matched a Big East school against a Mid-American Conference opponent for four years. The Big East is now sending a team to the new Pinstripe Bowl at Yankee Stadium. 
Big East members won all four games, outscoring their MAC foes 117-53 the last three years. South Florida's 27-3 win over Northern Illinois on Jan. 2 drew the bowl's lowest attendance with just over 22,000 fans at Toronto’s Rogers Centre. But a year earlier, 40,184 people watched Connecticut beat Buffalo. 
Bowl president Don Loding said Thursday the game could possibly be resurrected in the future. 


around the dial 
NCAA Women’s Basketball 
No. 4 Baylor vs. No. 2 Duke 
7:04 p.m., ESPN 

No. 3 Xavier vs. No. 1 Stanford 
9:07 p.m., ESPN 

page 14 The Observer  SPORTS Monday. March 29, 2010 
NBA 

Hawks fly past Pacers; Bucks beat Grizzlies 
Associated Press 
ATLANTA — It’s not every day that Zaza Pachulia passes behind his back while dribbling on a fast break. 
Josh Smith, who took Pachulia’s fourth-quarter assist for an uncontested dunk, was delighted by the reserve cen­ter’s unexpected athleticism. 
“Zaza likes to do his thing a little bit in the open court, so I’m not going to hate on his shine,” Smith said with a smile. “It was a better pass than a dunk.” 
Smith had 21 points and 13 rebounds, Al Horford added 18 points and 12 boards, and the Atlanta Hawks snapped the Indiana Pacers’ five-game win­ning streak with a 94-84 victory on Sunday. 
The Hawks, who had dropped two of three overall, increased their home winning streak to a season-high eight games. 
Troy Murphy scored 21 for Indiana, which was trying to win six straight games for the first time since 2005. Danny Granger, who was coming off a career-high 44 points in a home win Friday over Utah, finished with 18. He had averaged 31.9 over the previous seven games. 

Particularly troublesome for Indiana was its poor perimeter shooting. After hitting six of nine 3-point attempts in the first quarter, the Pacers were 2 for 17 the rest of the game. 
“Atlanta always gives you a problem because they switch every ball screen,” Granger said. “We really didn’t take advantage of it the way we should have tonight. We just gave them too many points in the paint, too. Too many easy points. We got the same (3­point) shots but we missed them.” 
Atlanta has won six straight over the Pacers overall and six in a row at Philips Arena. 
“Their athleticism up front always gives us problems,” Indiana coach Jim O’Brien said. “They were quicker to the offensive rebounds, quicker driving by us with Josh Smith and Al Horford. We’ve strug­gled with them all year.” 
After Jamal Crawford missed a straightaway 3-point attempt midway through the third, Horford had three rebounds on the same possession before his putback forced a 59-all tie. 
“He’s been consistent since the first day he stepped foot in Atlanta,” Hawks coach Mike Woodson said of Horford. “He’s been fantastic. He’s been on a nice roll lately, getting (eight consecutive) double-doubles, and we’re going to need him to continue to do that.” 
Playoff-bound Atlanta took control shortly afterward and built a 17-point lead on consec­utive dunks by Smith, the sec­ond of which made it 84-67 with 6:57 remaining. 
The previous dunk, however, was a season highlight for Pachulia’s fan club. 
Pachulia, a native of Tbilisi, Georgia, first beat Roy Hibbert to a loose ball created by Granger’s turnover and then began dribbling up the open court. Since Smith was trailing behind him, Pachulia froze Hibbert by making a behind­the-back pass with his right hand. 
“That was a great pass,” guard Joe Johnson said. “I think he should have been a guard, anyway.” 
Pachulia, who averages 4.0 points and 3.6 rebounds in 13.5 
minutes per game, wasn’t sure if he would watch the replay after he returned home Sunday night. 
“I hope so,” he said with a grin. 
The Hawks believe the next two games should help them gauge what to expect of their third straight trip to the play­offs. After the defending NBA champion Los Angeles Lakers play at Philips Arena on Wednesday, Atlanta will visit Cleveland, which has the league’s best record, on Friday. 
“It’s not going to be easy,” Crawford said. “They’re two tough teams, two of the best in the league.” 
Bucks 108, Grizzlies 103 
John Salmons scored 10 of his 25 points in the fourth quarter and overtime, and the Milwaukee Bucks rallied to beat the Memphis Grizzlies Sunday. 
Salmons twice put the Bucks ahead in the extra period with baskets, including the lead for good when he drained a fading 14-foot jumper with 1:35 left. 
Rookie Brandon Jennings added 29 points, eight assists and seven rebounds, and Andrew Bogut had 18 points and 11 rebounds in his return after missing a game with a sore back to help the Bucks avoid a three-game losing streak. 
Milwaukee is 16-4 since acquiring Salmons at the trade deadline from Chicago. 
Zach Randolph led Memphis with 31 points and 15 rebounds, but was clearly frus­trated down the stretch, chuck­ing his headband toward the crowd after being called for a foul with 45 seconds to play in overtime. 
Milwaukee rallied from a seven-point deficit midway through the fourth quarter when Jennings took control. Jennings, who had 11 points in the fourth quarter and over­time, had been struggling from the field in his past four games, but hit several contested layups. 
He also made one costly mis­take. 
After putting the Bucks ahead 93-89 with a floater and again 94-92 with a free throw, he fouled Mike Conley in the cor­ner with 2.1 seconds left in reg­ulation. 
NHL 

Crosby scores two in shootout win 

Associated Press 
PITTSBURGH — Sidney Crosby ended a seven-game stretch without a goal by scor­ing twice, then joined Pascal Dupuis with shootout tallies as the Pittsburgh Penguins rallied to beat the Toronto Maple Leafs 5-4 on Sunday. 
The Penguins trailed 4-3 until Matt Cooke deflected defenseman Brooks Orpik’s slap shot from the right point with 3:48 remaining in regula­tion. Orpik had his first three-point game by also assisting on Crosby’s NHL-leading 46th and 47th goals. 
After Phil Kessel was turned aside by Penguins goalie Marc-Andre Fleury in the shootout, Crosby converted for the eighth time in 10 attempts by putting a wrist shot under the cross­bar. Fleury stopped Nikolai Kulemin’s backhander before Dupuis — on his first shootout attempt all season — also put a wrister by Jean-Sebastien Giguere. 
Tyler Kennedy also scored as the Penguins moved ahead of New Jersey 95-93 for the Atlantic Division lead and the likely No. 2 seeding in the Eastern Conference playoffs. Both teams went into Sunday’s games with 93 points, but the Devils hold the tiebreaker. 
Pittsburgh won its second in two days after dropping three in a row and six of eight. 
Toronto, last in the confer­ence but the winner of nine of its previous 12, went ahead 4-3 when Tyler Bozak scored on a power play created by Fleury’s interference penalty 5:38 into the third. Fleury gave a hip check to Colton Orr as he skat­ed out from behind the net after previously tangling with Orpik and Kris Letang. 
Crosby scored twice in a span of 3:14 in the second period after failing for the second time this season to score in seven consecutive games. 

Crosby, who leads Washington’s Alex Ovechkin 47-46 in the NHL goal-scoring race, tied it at 2 by scoring off a rebound of Orpik’s slap shot at 7:29 of the second. He gave Pittsburgh the lead at 10:43 after winning a faceoff in the Maple Leafs zone. The puck deflected off the side boards to Orpik, who fed it to back to Crosby for a wrist shot from the lower right circle. 
Crosby also scored for the first time in the 12 games Evgeni Malkin has missed due to injury. Malkin (bruised right foot) sat out for the sixth time in seven games. 
Giguere made 41 saves while starting instead of Jonas Gustavsson, who won his sev­enth in a row Saturday as the Maple Leafs rallied to beat the New York Rangers 3-2. Pittsburgh outshot Toronto 45­29. 
Orr, Kessel and Carl Gunnarsson also scored for Toronto. Kessel scored his 30th on a seemingly harmless wrist shot from the high slot nearly five minutes into the second. Fleury gave up a similarly soft goal to Philadelphia’s Arron Asham on Saturday, the only score he gave up in Pittsburgh’s 4-1 victory. 


Monday, March 29, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 15 
SMC GOLF 

Belles to face Southwestern in Invitational 
By ALLAN JOSEPH 
Sports Writer 
No. 2 Saint Mary’s will meet top-15 competition in the warmth of Texas today, when the Belles compete against host No. 12 Southwestern University in the Southwestern Invitational at Berry Creek Country Club in Georgetown, Texas. 
Last year, Saint Mary’s fin­ished second out of nine teams in the Southwestern Invitational, outpaced only by the host Pirates. Junior Mary Kate Boyce finished second overall among individuals, card­ing the low round of the tourna­ment with a 77 on the second day, while sophomore Natalie Matuszak had the low score of the opening day with a 79. Three other Belles golfers fin­ished in the top half of the field to round out a strong perform­ance from Saint Mary’s. Boyce and Matuszak’s scores will be key to the team’s score during this tournament, while junior Rosie O’Connor, sophomore Christine Brown and senior cap­tain Perri Hamma will round out the team’s top five scorers in an attempt to continue the team’s success so far this sea­son. 


“I see a great chance to add to our nation leading total of six tournament wins,” Belles coach Mark Hamilton said. “We expect to play to our potential for this tournament.” 
Southwestern University is led by seniors Kristen Davenport and Cody Wallace. The Pirates are bolstered by two freshmen in Erin Perry and Kelsey Coburn, all of whom have card­ed impressive rounds consis­tently this year. The Belles will also be contending with peren­nial power Mary Hardin-Baylor in their efforts to pick up a vic­tory. 

“Southwestern and Mary Hardin-Baylor have a strong tradition of winning and we look forward to competing against them in their backyard,” Hamilton said. 
The central Texas climate may provide winds gusting near 20 miles an hour, posing a potential problem for the golfers on a course noted for its narrow fairways. The Belles will have to contend with a large number of trees if they do miss the fair­ways. Although, if they can land on the greens without trouble, low scores are possible, as the greens are not particularly tough, Hamilton said. 
The MIAA fall champion Belles look to succeed in the sun this Monday and Tuesday in Georgetown, Texas. 
Contact Allan Joseph at ajoseph2@nd.edu 
ND TRACK & FIELD 

Three take first in outdoor opener 
By MEGAN FINNERAN 
Sports Writer 

Three Irish athletes took first place at the Arizona State Invitational, and four athletes finished in the top five at the Stanford Invitational to open the outdoor season over the week­end. 
In Tempe, Ariz., senior Joanna Schultz took first place in the women’s 400 meter hur­dles with a school-record time of 58.13. Senior Jack Howard took first in the men’s 800 at 
1:49.52 and sophomore Kevin Schipper took first in the men’s pole vault with a jump of 5.10 meters. 
“It felt wonderful to start off the season with such a good race, especially since the hur­dles are a new event for me,” Schultz said. “Hopefully with some more technical work we can bring my time down even more.” 
Junior Kelly Langhans and senior Jacyln Espinoza both fin­ished in the top five of their events. Langhans finished third in the 800 (2:09.06) and Espinoza claimed fourth in the shot put. 
For the men’s team, senior Blake Choplin finished fourth in the 800 while senior Eric Quick took third in the long jump. 
The first day of the Arizona State Invitational brought an advancement to the finals for junior John Belcher in the men’s hammer throw. Belcher finished 10th with a throw of 56.88 meters. Junior Denes Veres fin­ished fifth in the men’s shot put with a toss of 17.26 meters. 
Next weekend Notre Dame will send athletes to the Arizona Multi-Event, Florida Relays, Purdue Invitational and Tiger Track Classic in Auburn, Ala. 
Contact Megan Finneran at mfnnera@nd.edu 
NHL 

Iginla, Flames down Caps 
Associated Press 

WASHINGTON — Well, that was quite a 24-hour swing. One day after the Calgary Flames looked done for the season, they went out and dominated the league’s top team. 
Having reached the despera­tion point in their bid to make the playoffs, the Flames scored four goals in the first period Sunday and beat the Washington Capitals 5-3. 
Captain Jarome Iginla had said the Flames needed to “run the table” to get into the post­season after a 5-0 loss at Boston on Saturday. He and his team­mates responded by salvaging a three-game road trip that began with two losses. 
“We played with the effort that we’re supposed to,” defenseman Robyn Regehr said, “and we have to do that for the rest of the year.” 
The win moved Calgary within four points of eighth-place Colorado and within five of sev­enth-place Los Angeles in the Western Conference, pending the result of Colorado’s game later Sunday. 
Ales Kotalik, Ian White, Jay Bouwmeester, Niklas Hagman and Rene Bourque scored for the Flames. Miikka Kiprusoff, who was pulled in the third period of the loss to the Bruins, made 31 saves against the Capitals as Calgary won in Washington for the first time in 11 years. 
“We’re all talking about that we want to be in the playoffs,” Iginla said. “But we’ve got to go earn it and earn a chance. Now we’re in position where we’re just trying to earn a chance and see what other teams do.” 
Alex Ovechkin got his 46th goal for Washington and also had an assist to reach the 100­point mark for the fourth time in his five-year career. David Steckel and Mathieu Perreault also scored for the Capitals, who lost at home in regulation for only the fifth time in 36 games this season. 
“We didn’t have any energy,” Washington coach Bruce Boudreau said. “It looked like we were skating in quicksand. Their sense of urgency was so tremendous. They’d been embarrassed in Boston. We did-n’t meet their push.” 
Washington’s Jose Theodore was pulled at 10:34 of the first period after allowing three goals on nine shots, but his franchise-record 19-game streak without a regulation loss (17-0-2) remains intact because the Capitals later scored three goals. That made Semyon Varlamov, who gave up the fourth goal, the goalie of record. 
“For the first time in a long time,” Boudreau said, “it looked like Theo was struggling a little bit.” 
The Flames also spoiled a chance for the Capitals to clinch the top seed in the Eastern Conference for the first time in franchise history, but Washington claimed the No. 1 spot when New Jersey lost 5-1 at Philadelphia on Sunday night. 
Three of the Flames’ goals were carom shots off Capitals goaltenders, including the first two. Kotalik stuffed in a rebound off Theodore’s left leg just 2:35 into the game, and White put a rebound off Theodore’s side as the goalie was falling on his back during the power play at the 8:28 mark. 


page 16 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, March 29, 2010 
FENCING 

No. 1 Irish upset in NCAA Championships 
By LUKE MANSOUR 
Sports Writer 
Top-ranked Notre Dame fin­ished a disappointing third in the NCAA Championships Sunday, after heading into the weekend with a 68-0 combined regular season record. 
Penn State claimed the National Championship with 191 total victories, and St. John’s edged out Notre Dame for sec­ond with 182. 

One of the bright spots for Notre Dame in the tournament was sophomore Gerek Meinhardt, winning his first national championship in foil. Meinhardt defeated David Willette of Penn State 15-9 for the title, Notre Dame’s first indidivudal men’s foil title since 1984. 
Meinhardt was a finalist in the foil competition at last year’s NCAA tournament only to lose a15-14 contest. This year, Meinhardt’s successful season included wins at the Midwest Fencing Championships and the Midwest Regional Tournament. 
Meinhardt’s journey to the title included a close semifinal match with Miles Chamley-Watson. With the score tied at 9-9 in a contest to 15, Meinhardt reeled off four consecutive touches to take control of the match at 13­
9. In the final, Meinhardt found himself down 5-3 before battling back to a lead of 10-9. He then landed the next 5 touches to win the match in stunning fashion. 

Notre Dame entered the final day of competition only four points back of then-leader St. John’s. But on the final day, they faltered. Junior Kelley Hurley, 2008 women’s epee champion, finished a disappointing sixth, while sophomore sister Courtney tied for third after losing in the quarterfinals to eventual cham­pion Margherita Vincenti of Penn State. Juniors Sarah Borrman and Hayley Reese each finished fifth in the women’s saber and foil competitions, respectively 
Junior Avery Zuck and sopho­more Enzo Castellani won bronze medals for their efforts on Sunday. Castellani took third behind Meinhardt in men’s foil while Castellani finished third in men’s sabre. Castellani and Zuck both took home all-American honors. In total, the Irish had 11 all-Americans on the 2010 squad. 
Contact Luke Mansour at lmansour@nd.edu 
SMC TENNIS 

Belles dominate Alma in MIAA conference opener 
By MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writer 
The Belles captured an 8-1 victory over Alma in their first MIAA conference match of the season Saturday behind the ever-steady performance of junior Jillian Hurley. 
Doubles have been an area of focus all season long, and Saturday the Belles (8-3, 1-0) showed the results of that focus. 
“We got off to a great start 
SMC SOFTBALL 

Belles take both in double header 
By KEVIN BALDWIN 
Sports Writer 
Saint Mary’s used a strong start to top North Park (Ill.) for two wins, 9-6 and 14-1, Sunday in a double-header on the road. 
The Belles (11-5) wasted no time in getting on the board, scoring four runs in the first inning, including a three-run home run by freshman Morgan Bedan. Senior Maureen Healy capitalized on a walk advanc­ing to home as part of the team’s four-run rally to start the day. 
Healy came up big again in the fourth inning, with the score tied at four a piece, knocking in two with the first home run of her career to take the 6-4 lead. 
“I am extremely proud of how Maureen Healy played today,” Belles coach Erin Sullivan said. “She had a great day at the plate, and made some stellar defensive plays to keep us in the first game.” 
North Park was quick to fol­low up with a couple runs, and by the seventh inning the score was tied at six. The Saint Mary’s bats came alive again as they used a series of base hits to score three runs and hold off the Vikings for the vic­tory. 
“I was also impressed with the way our team came out in the seventh inning of the first game and a tie score knowing we would win this game. We in doubles winning all three, 6-3, 6-1 decision in her sin-one of the few times we have gles match. done that in a conference “Jillian has had a great start match,” Belles coach Dale to the season,” Campbell said. Campbell said. “I can’t say that I am sur-

As the No. 1 individual per-prised with her wins because former, Hurley has yet to drop she has an excellent offensive a match on the individual game, but I am more side. On the doubles side, she impressed with her effort to and partner, and fellow junior, keep finding more ways to get Mary Therese Lee have only even stronger. She has the lost once this season. On ability to control the points Saturday, Lee and Hurley won with anyone.” their match 8-5, which got The significance of doubles things going for the Belles as play cannot be overstated in a team. Then Hurley won in a its importance to the Belles’ success this year. 
“The main factor [in the vic­tory] was our moving forward better in doubles.” Campbell said. “We are volleying better and creating more set-ups for our net players. We are also finishing better at the net.” 
Although doubles was the strong point for the Belles in Saturday’s decisive win, Campbell said he believes fur­ther improvement in that area will lead Saint Mary’s to even more success. 
“We still need to get even more net opportunities in doubles, and get our oppo­nents reacting to our move­ment,” Campbell said. “However, it has been improv­ing every match.” 
The Belles’ next match is against Trine Tuesday, and then they play several nation­ally ranked opponents in what Campbell calls the “toughest stretch of the season” for the Belles. 
Contact Matt Robison at mrobison@nd.edu 

talked about making the 7th inning a team effort and every­one contributing,” Sullivan said. “That was definitely the case as eight of our nine hit­ters came up to bat that inning and we turned a key double play in the bottom of the sev­enth when North Park threat­ened to come back.” 
The Belles continued to build off their momentum into the second game, loading the bases with two hits and a walk followed by a grand slam by junior Hayley Bojorquez to take the early lead. They added six more runs in the third on a rally that included a total of eight hits. The thrash­ing continued into the fifth inning before the game was called on account of the 10-run rule, the final score stood at 14-1 in the Belle’s favor. “The second game we really showed how strong our offense can be with 17 hits in 5 innings,” Sullivan said. “North Park is a good team, but we had a lot of momentum coming off such a close win.” 
The Belle’s will be back in action at 5 p.m. today when they take on Bethel College in a doubleheader at Notre Dame’s Melissa Cook Stadium.The Belle’s will be back in action at 5 p.m. today 
when they take on Bethel College in a doubleheader at Notre Dame’s Melissa Cook Stadium. 
Contact Kevin Baldwin at kbaldwi2@nd.edu 


Monday, March 29, 2010 The Observer  SPORTS page 17 
MEN’S TENNIS
ND SOFTBALL 

Tough doubles point 
Irish take three from Pirates 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame extended its winning streak to 11 games with three wins against Seton Hall this weekend to open the Big East competition. 
“Going out there and scor­ing so many runs really pumped up our attitude,” sophomore catcher Kristina Wright said. 
In their first day of play, the Irish defeated the Pirates twice, 12-0 and 11-1. 
The first two games includ­ed two records broken by Irish players. Junior pitcher Jody Valdivia threw the first Irish no-hitter in three sea­sons and became the 16th player in program history to reach this feat on the mound. Also, junior infielder Sadie Pitzenberger lengthened her hitting streak to the 23rd game in a row, breaking another record before the sec­ond game ended. 
“[Valdivia] threw really well, and you could just tell that they weren’t going to hit her,” Wright said. “When she’s on fire, our whole team is on fire.” 
Sophomore infielder Kasey O’Connor was the first Irish hitter to score in the series as her triple and steal of home started the Irish scoring. Big hits from senior infielders Christine Lux and Heather Johnson started the Irish’s early lead in their five-inning victory. 
“We were able to string a lot of hits together to score,” Wright said. “Everyone con­tributed in our wins this weekend.” 
In Saturday’s second game, freshman pitcher Brittany O’Donnell suppressed the Pirate offense to two hits, notching two strike-outs. 
“Our pitchers did a good job keeping them off-balance,” Wright said. “They didn’t have a chance against our pitch­ers.” 
In the third of the weekend’s three-game series at Seton Hall’s Ivy Hill Park, the Irish were evenly matched with the Pirates into the fourth inning where the score was tied, 2-2, but were able to break away 


sets tone in ND victory 
By MEAGHAN VESELIK 
Sports Writer 
Notre Dame topped Northwestern 5-2 Saturday on the strength of a tiebreaker victory in the No. 1 doubles match, earning the doubles point and a lead the Irish did not relinquish. 
Juniors Daniel Stahl and David Anderson fell first at No. 3 doubles to the Wildcats’ Alex Sanborn and Spencer Wolf 8-6 before the No. 2 dou­bles duo of sophomore Niall Fitzgerald and junior Tyler Davis evened the score with an 8-6 victory of their own. 
Sophomore Casey Watt and junior Stephen Havens earned the doubles point with a 9-8 (8-6) victory in the No. 1 dou­bles slot. 
“The doubles could not have been closer,” Irish coach Bobby Bayliss said. “All three of their doubles were pretty equal. They contributed their strength across each of the three teams.” 
Havens’ strong play contin­ued as he had one of his cleanest singles matches of the year, Bayliss said. 
No. 2 Havens defeated McCarthy 6-1, 6-4 to win the first completed singles match of the day. Stahl made up for his doubles loss with a 7-5, 6­2 victory. 
“[Stahl] really held his ground well and handled Wolf’s pace very well,” Bayliss said. “He took advantage of his position in a hard fought match. He deserves a lot of credit.” 
The other Irish victories came from Anderson and freshman Blas Moros. 
“[The match] went as well as can be expected, “Bayliss said of his team playing out­doors in 40-degree weather. “It’s a tribute to both teams that the level of play was as high as it was.” 
The Irish (10-8) knew facing the Wildcats would be a tough match since their team is almost as good as they are, although there may be some difference in the rankings, Bayliss said. 
“It really comes down to one, our ability to hold our own in a match like this, and two, the grit and determina­tion our guys showed when the going got tough, and it got tough,” he said. “We expected a hard match and we got a hard match.” 
Hoping to come out with some confidence from their recent win, the Irish will trav­el to Texas to take on SMU and Texas A&M next week­end. 
Contact Meaghan Veselik at mvesel01@saintmarys.edu 

with an offensive rally that led them to win by 10 runs. 
Valdivia won her 17th game in a row from the mound. 
Pitzenberger and Fleury each put three hits on the board for the Irish. 
“Now we know that any team in the Big East is going to have to try really hard to beat us,” Wright said. 
The Irish will next travel to Loyola-Chicago Tuesday in 
search of their 12th straight win. 
WOMEN’S LACROSSE 
Contact Molly Sammon at msammon@nd.edu 
Notre Dame wins frst Big East game 

By LUKE MANSOUR 
Sports Writer 
No. 11 Notre Dame rebounded from a disappointing loss to Vanderbilt by defeating confer­ence opponent Louisville 11-9 in its opening game of Big East play. 
Freshman goalkeeper Ellie Hilling led the Irish (5-2, 1-0) continue to clean up some stuff that’s causing our opponents to come back in games, we’ll be very good.” 
Coyne said despite the win, Notre Dame continues to com­mit too many unforced errors, something that has plagued the team to this point. 
“We still turn the ball over too much, and its more us than our 
opponent,” Coyne 
said. “We just 

by notching 12 had too many 
“I think we’re fnding
saves, and soph-unforced errors.” 
a way to win and
omore midfield-Junior Bergan er Megan that’s the most Foley led Sullivan scored Louisville with a
important thing right
a career-best four-goal per-
now.” 
four goals. formance. 
“[Sullivan] Coyne said the clearly put us in Tracy Coyne win was a big a position to win confidence boost 
Irish coach 
the game,” Irish coach Tracy Coyne said. “She was really get­ting open, staying composed and finishing her shots.” 
After leading by two goals at halftime, the Irish dominated the second half from the outset by scoring three goals less than two minutes into the period. Sophomore attack Maggie Tamasitis scored a goal and notched two assists to Sullivan in the quick three-goal outburst. 
Louisville (4-3, 0-1) responded by cutting the deficit to 10-9, but the Irish defense shut the door en route to the 11-9 victory. 
“We’re a good defensive team,” Coyne said. “If we can for the Irish, who 
will now enter the toughest portion of the schedule beginning with a huge matchup against Northwestern, the nation’s top-ranked team. 
“I was happy but we have a lot of things to work on,” Coyne said. “I think we’re getting bet­ter every game so I was happy to get our first Big East [win]. I think we’re finding a way to win and that’s the most important thing right now.” 
Notre Dame will take on the Wildcats at 7 p.m. Tuesday in Evanston, Ill. 
Contact Luke Mansour at lmansour@nd.edu 

page 18 The Observer  SPORTS Monday, March 29, 2010 
Frilling and Krisik were able to pull off their 13th consecu-
Doubles 
Kelly

tive win, boasting a perfect sea-continued from page 20 son for the pair. 
continued from page 20 

Ciobanu and Mathews sealed duo of senior Kali Krisik and the doubles point, and fresh-
begin the year as an inside line-sophomore Kristy Frilling won man Chrissie McGaffigan and 
backer, having the size to take 7-4, and in their first time play-junior Kristen Rafael earned a 
on offensive lineman, and as a ing together, sophomore third doubles victory for the 
leader, but that in order to have Shannon Mathews and senior Irish. 
his desired impact, he’ll need to Cosmina Ciobanu clinched the In singles play, Frilling, 
improve. point for the Irish. TCU forfeit-McGaffigan, Ciobanu, Rafael 
“[Manti’s] got to get much bet-ed in both the third doubles and and Krisik each beat their 
ter as a football player. He was-sixth singles positions, as each opponents for the six total 
n’t very good [last year],”Kelly of the Irish singles players won points that Notre Dame won. 
said. “And he understands that. their matches as well. The Shockers received one 
He’s been committed to learn-The Irish then defeated the point as No. 34 Lutfiana 
ing.” Shockers, 6-1, on Sunday. Budiharto defeated No. 108 
Te’o readily agreed with Notre Dame made its return Mathews in a three-set contest. 
Kelly’s criticisms. to outside play, but the harsh The Irish will spend the week 
“I totally agree,” he said. conditions yielded to a tough preparing for their last road 
“Everybody makes mistakes. I environment on the outdoor matches of the season against 
just have to learn from those courts. Baylor and Texas A&M on April 
mistakes, and come out ready “It as a little cool and windy,” 3 and April 5, respectively. 
to improve and get better.” Louderback said. “However, it was great to play outside Contact Molly Sammon at 
Contact Douglas Farmer at against the elements.” msammon@nd.edu 
dfarmer1@nd.edu 

difference between the teams’ in hindsight should have just the Irish with two goals and an 
first matchup was the emergence given it to Skylar at half court 
NCAA 

assist, while senior midfielder of Oklahoma center Abi and let her dribble it down. She 
Corrigan 

Grant Krebs and junior midfield-
continued from page 20 Olajuwon, daughter of NBA Hall-probably would have made it continued from page 20 er David Earl each notched two 
of-Famer Hakeem Olajuwon, on because she’s that kind of play-goals as well. Senior attack Neal 
Lechlitner and Lindsay Schrader both ends of the court. The 6-4 er.” time of possession was off the Hicks also contributed a goal as 
refused to go down quietly. Olajuwon dominated the Irish Diggins finished with 10 points, charts in their favor, which is our well as two assists, and sopho-
Lechlitner finished with a game-under the glass with her 20 four assists and six steals, and fault.” more attack Nicholas Beattie fin-
high 22 points and Schrader points and 14 rebounds. ended an outstanding freshman Although Corrigan noted that ished off Notre Dame’s scoring 
added 19, as the two carried “We were trying to double-campaign as Notre Dame’s lead-there was not “a whole lot” the with a goal and an assist. 
Notre Dame down the stretch. team her, and she got some ing scorer. Irish did well Saturday, he has In order for the Irish to make a 
“The screens that Lindsay and offensive rebound put-backs,” Sunday’s loss cannot help but always been happy with their run in the Big East, the offense 
our post players were setting McGraw said. “We didn’t do a feel bittersweet for a group of effort. will need to improve on its effec­
were really opening up a lot for good job on the boards, and our seniors that has now fallen in the “We compete hard,” Corrigan tiveness and efficiency, Corrigan 
me,” Lechlitner said. “My first bench, which has been our Sweet 16 for a second time in said. “There’s no quit in our said. 
one fell, and so I just kept attack-strength all year long, just gave three years. But as they hang up team.” “Offensively we’ve been very 
ing and using their really good us nothing tonight.” their jerseys a little earlier than But that won’t be enough in a poor,” he said. “We’re not playing 
screens after that. Such a great Despite only four points off the wanted, they leave the court for tough Big East conference, well as a team and we’re relying 
four years we had here … I wish bench, Notre Dame had a final the final time on their own terms. Corrigan said. on individual efforts.” 
we could have went a little fur-chance to send the game into “I didn’t want to lose, and it “It takes a lot more to win than Corrigan described Notre 
ther.” double overtime with 4.4 seconds just kind of took over me,” just playing hard,” he said. Dame’s play thus far this season 
While the Irish never found a remaining. Senior forward Erica Schrader said. “But I left it all out “That’s just the price of admis-as “erratic and inconsistent.” 
rhythm as a team offensively, the Williamson launched a three-there. People look around and sion.” Although the home loss to 
Sooner guards showed athleti-quarter-court pass on the see I’m not upset, but there’s The Irish played good defense, Rutgers could have dramatic 
cism throughout the 45 minutes. inbound, but Oklahoma inter-nothing else I could have done. but because Rutgers was able to implications for the Irish in terms 
That athleticism was the missing cepted it. That’s just the way you’ve got to control the ball for most of the of Big East standings and NCAA 
factor in Notre Dame’s 81-71 vic-“It was a play we’ve worked on do it.” game, the defense had to work tournament selection at the end 
tory over Oklahoma in quite a bit,” McGraw said. that much harder to keep the ball of the season, Corrigan is not 
November. “Schrader was going to throw it Contact Chris Masoud at out of the back of the net. looking that far down the road. 
Yet McGraw said the biggest to Skylar for three, but probably cmasoud@nd.edu 
Notre Dame used three goal-“I’m not worried about the rest tenders in the loss. Senior Scott of the season,” Corrigan said. Rodgers started and made six “We’ve got to get better today saves before leaving with an and see what we can do to get injury. Senior Brendan Moore fin-better tomorrow.” ished the first half and made two Notre Dame next gets a chance saves, and freshman John Kemp to prove its own improvement on made his debut in the second April 3 at Villanova. half, making eight saves. 
On the offensive side, junior Contact Matt Robison at midfielder Zach Brenneman led mrobison@nd.edu 
Irish, giving up six runs on eight hits in six innings.
No-hitter 

Left-hander Andrew Barbosa continued from page 20 (2-1) got the win for South 
Florida, tossing 6 2/3 innings two-run homer in the eighth with eight hits and two earned inning to round out the scoring runs. in the game. In the third and final game of 
The Irish tried to ruin the weekend series, the wheels Fontanez’s big night in the came unglued for the Irish, see-ninth inning, forcing him to toss ing them give up seven runs in 21 pitches in the inning. Senior the second inning, a difference outfielder David Mills reached that they could never overcome. base via a walk and senior Senior right-hander Eric Maust infielder Ryan Connolly reached got the start for the Irish, but base on catcher’s interference, he lost for his second consecu­but it would not be enough as tive outing, lasting only 1 2/3 senior first-baseman Casey innings. He gave up seven runs Martin struck out to end the on six hits. inning and the game. Sophomore left-hander Ryan 
The Irish then played a dou-Richter came in to relieve bleheader against the Bulls Maust and tossed 3 1/3 shutout Saturday, losing both games. innings with one walk and four 
In Game 1, the Irish built a 3-strikeouts. Richter is 1-0 2 lead on the back of a career-against Big East opponents, high four hits from Mills, who holding a 0.93 ERA and holding also threw two scoreless opposing batters to a .103 bat-innings to close out the game ting average. for the Irish, but South Florida The Irish next return to the scored four runs after the top of field Thursday when they travel the fifth inning to take the lead to Bethesda, Md. to take on and the win, 6-3, from the Irish. Georgetown. The games are at Senior outfielder Bill 1 p.m. Thursday, 3:30 p.m. Warrender went 3 for 4 in his Friday and noon Saturday. first career start. 
Sophomore left-hander Steve Contact Jared Jedick at Sabatino got the start for the jjedick@nd.edu 


1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  10  11  12  13  
14  15  16  
17  18  19  
20  21  
22  23  24  25  26  
27  28  29  30  31  
32  33  34  35  
36  37  38  
39  40  41  42  43  44  45  46  
47  48  49  50  
51  52  
53  54  55  56  57  
58  59  60  61  
62  63  64  
65  66  67  

Monday, March 29, 2010 The Observer  TODAY page 19 
CROSSWORD 
64Zippo 65Aid and ___ 66Make ___ (do 
some business) 67Carrier to Tel Aviv 
Down 
1 Surrounded by 2 Shirley's friend in 1970s-'80s TV 3 Goggles and
glasses4 People's worries 5 Jesters 6 It means 
everyone toHans 7 Comedian Foxx 8 TriBeCa neighbor 9 “Beauty ___ the eye …” 10Turkey's capital 11 Neigh : horse :: 
___ : cow 12Number on a golf course 
13Wallflower-ish 19Lemonlike fruit 21Dined 24Like 1, 3, 5, 7, etc. 25By way of 26Long stretch oftime 
28Parts of a bride's attire, for thispuzzle 
29___ Hall Pirates (1953 N.I.T.champs) 
30Prefix with ­centric 33“Today” rival, forshort 

WILL SHORTZ 
HOROSCOPE EUGENIA LAST 
Puzzle by Steve Dobis 
341-1 or 2-2, e.g. 45Oakland's 55Sluggers'figs. county
37Daniel Webster, 56Syllables before for one 46Law-breaking “di” or “da” in a Beatles song 
38Opal or topaz 48Optimistic 57Winter coat 
50Caesar whose 
39Gorilla material
forum was TV 

40What mattresses 58Push-up 
52Al ___ (cooked,

do over time provider
yet firm) 41007, for one 59High tennis shot 
54Kelly of morning 44Original TV 60Have no ___ for 
For answers, call 1-900-285-5656, $1.49 a minute; or, with a credit card, 1-800-814-5554.Annual subscriptions are available for the best of Sundaycrosswords from the last 50 years: 1-888-7-ACROSS.AT&T users: Text NYTX to 386 to download puzzles, or visit nytimes.com/mobilexword for more information. Online subscriptions: Today's puzzle and more than 2,000 past puzzles, nytimes.com/crosswords ($39.95 a year).Share tips: nytimes.com/wordplay. Crosswords for young solvers: nytimes.com/learning/xwords. 

Across 
1 Smart ___ (wiseguy) 5 Persian tongue 10Roadies carrythem 14Sandwich spread 15Sandwich spreads 16Ark builder 17Bakery fixture 18Nickname for Andrew Jackson 20Island east of Australia 22Says hello to 23Treasure chest 27Trap 28Mao ___-tung 31The “R” in RCA 32Shorebird 33Depressedurban area 35Former vice president Quayle 

36Word that can precede thestarts of 18-, 20­, 53- and 58­Across 
39Smart ___ (wiseguy)
42Any member of a classic punkrock band 
43Morales of “La Bamba” 

47___ New Guinea 
49Brian of RoxyMusic 
50What the nose picks up

51Pharaoh's realm 
52Dreary

53Dangerous thingto be living on 
58First prize at a fair 

61Force felt on the earth, informally
62Civil rightspioneer Parks
63Cockpitoccupant 
ANSWER TO PREVIOUS PUZZLE 



JEFF KNUREK

WILL GUAPPONE & BRI KRAFCIK 
JUMBLE
SCHAD & FREUDE 
MIKE ARGIRION 

DAN POHLMAN
T.I.N.D. 



 HE OBSERVER 
Published Monday through Friday, The Observer is a vital source of information on people and events in the Notre Dame and Saint Mary’s Community. 
Join the more than 13,000 readers who have found The Observer an indispensible link to the two campuses. Please complete the accompa­nying form and mail it today to receive The Observer in your home. 
Make checks payable to:  The Observer  
and mail to:  P.O. Box 779  
Notre Dame, IN 46556  

Enclosed is $120 for one academic year 
Enclosed is $65 for one semester 
Name ________________________________________________ Address ______________________________________________ City __________________ State _________ Zip______________ 
The Observer

Sports
Monday, March 29, 2010 page 20 
FOOTBALL 

Crist, Floyd take part in first spring practice under Kelly 
By DOUGLAS FARMER 
Sports Editor 
Nearly four months after first arriving at Notre Dame, Brian Kelly saw sophomore quarter­back Dayne Crist throw a football for the first time Friday. Not that Kelly was as much concerned with how Crist’s throw looked, or how his injured knee fared, as much as he was concerned with how quickly Crist readied for the throw. 

“To really understand what needs to be done, they have to understand pace,” Kelly said in a news conference before practice Friday. “They have to understand how we practice first before we can get into schemes and how we’re going to do things.” 
That attitude rubbed off on Crist, who could be seen hustling up to the line of scrimmage in the second drill of the year, knee brace, surgically-repaired ACL and all. 
“The whole emphasis in prac­tice is tempo,” he said. “Guys have got to learn that. Learning on the run is a big deal here.” 
Crist and the rest of the offense had their chance to show what they’ve already learned from Kelly’s complex playbook in that second drill, running a no-huddle offense up the field with no defense opposing them. Without a defense looking to stop them, the biggest challenge for the Irish was knowing each play call and what it meant, as three different coaches and players signaled in the plays. 

“We’ll just have to practice [picking up the calls],” Crist said. “That’s just part of our offense, as necessary as everything else and knowing the actual plays.” 
The fourth play featured an audible, which resulted in an option reverse hand-off to sopho­more receiver Michael Floyd. 
But of the changes noticed in the first day of spring practice, the biggest changes might be the ones not seen, such as the lack of a depth chart and Kelly’s prais­ing of freshman linebacker Manti Te’o as a leader on the defense, albeit also describing Te’o as needing improvement. 
“We’re going to compete with all of our players,” Kelly said of not utilizing a depth chart. “You will see an immersion virtually of every player in our spring prac­tice format because it’s that important that they’re involved in the skill development.” 
Kelly did allow that Te’o would 
see KELLY/page 18 


ND WOMEN’S BASKETBALL 
Life, death by 3 
Oklahoma tops Irish with 3-pointer in OT 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
The three-point line can be a beautiful thing — depending on which side of the court you’re standing on. 
Down 66-63 with 48 seconds to play, freshman guard Skylar Diggins knocked down a clutch three to send the game into over­time. But on a night when Oklahoma shot 50 percent from behind the arc, Nyeshia Stevenson hit a dagger with less than five seconds left in overtime to seal Oklahoma’s 77-72 victory and advance to the Elite Eight. 
“They beat us from the three-point line,” Irish coach Muffet McGraw said. “[Stevenson] was someone we were really, really trying to guard and just lost her for a second on a number of occa­sions, and that was the difference in the game.” 

Senior  guards  Melissa  PAT COVENEY/The Observer  
Irish coach Muffet McGraw walks off the court after Notre Dame’s 77-72 overtime defeat to  
see NCAA/page 18  Oklahoma in the Sweet Sixteen of the NCAA Tournament Sunday. The Irish ended the season at 29-6.  


ND WOMEN’S TENNIS 
Duos carry ND to two victories 
By MOLLY SAMMON 
Sports Writer 
An undefeated doubles record carried No. 3 Notre Dame to victories over both TCU and Wichita State this weekend in Wichita, Kan. 
“This was the most enthusi­asm I have seen in our girls in a while,” Irish coach Jay Louderback said. “We had been working on getting the girls to play with a little more passion, and that’s exactly what we got from them.” 
Saturday, Notre Dame (15-2) shut out the Horned Frogs 7-0 as bad weather forced the two teams to play inside. 
The Irish took an early lead by winning the doubles point. The new arrangement of teams Louderback decided to play this weekend proved to be a benefi­cial set-up. The fourth-ranked 
see DOUBLES/page 18 
BASEBALL 

Wrong end of no-hitter hampers Notre Dame 
By JARED JEDICK 
Sports Writer 
The Irish got swept on their weekend road trip to South Florida, losing three games 4­0, 6-3 and 10-2. 
South Florida junior Randy Fontanez no-hit the Irish in the series-opener Friday, and Notre Dame never recovered in suffering a three-game weekend sweep to open Big East play. 
Notre Dame (8-15, 0-3) could not find any answers to Fontanez (1-4), who struck out a career-high 12 batters in only the third no-hitter in South Florida history. The 4-0 win was Fontanez’s first com­plete game shutout and his only win this season. Prior to this game, the Bulls (11-13, 3­
0) had lost all five games Fontanez started. 
Junior right-hander Brian Dupra started Friday’s game and posted another strong outing but did not get any run support from the Irish offense. Dupra pitched six innings and allowed only two earned runs on nine hits. He struck out four and walked only one bat­ter, but by the end of his night he had thrown 122 pitches. 
Sophomore left-hander Joe Spano pitched one inning of scoreless relief before sopho­more Will Hudgins gave up a 
see NO-HITTER/page 18 
MEN’S LACROSSE 

Big East play opens with loss 
By MATT ROBISON 
Sports Writer 

No. 13 Notre Dame lost its first-ever Big East game Saturday, falling at home to Rutgers 10-8. 
The Irish (5-3, 0-1 Big East) gained an early on the Scarlet Knights (5-2, 1-0), but after four unanswered goals by Rutgers, Notre Dame could not make a run to recapture the lead. 
“Rutgers played very well, and we played very poorly,” Irish coach Kevin Corrigan said. 
The Scarlet Knights were able to control to ball for most of the game and out shot the Irish 36­25. 
“We were very inefficient offensively,” Corrigan said. “The 
see CORRIGAN/page 18 


JULIE HERDER /The Observer Irish senior midfielder Grant Krebs defends during Notre Dame’s 10-8 defeat against Rutgers on March 27. 





