PhotoIllustrationby Ian Gavlick and Blair Chemidlin 
Thursday, March 18, 2010 The Observer IRISH INSIDER page 2 
‘Floor general’ Jackson heart of Irish team 
By CHRIS MASOUD 
Sports Writer 
Taking the game-winning shot as time expires can be the most excitingplayin all of sports. Make it, and you’re featured on SportsCenter’s Top 10 plays and vaulted into legendary status in school history. Miss, and your entire career may be defined by what could have been. 
So when senior guard Tory Jackson missedthe game-winning 3 in a 69-68 loss to St. John’s, it could have marked the end of a brilliantfour-yearcareer. 
“It looked good when I let it go, it felt good, but it didn’t end up going down,” Jackson said. “I think about it all the time, even when I hit the buzzer beater against Pittsburgh at halftime.” 
Trailing No. 7 West Virginia by two points in the final seconds of the Big East tournament semifi­nals, Jackson had another good lookatagame-winning3,butwas unrewarded as the Irishfellto the Mountaineers. Jackson said if the situation ever arises again, he won’thesitatetoletitfly. 
“When Kobe andJordan and all those guys take those shots, they missalot ofgame-winning shots,” Jackson said. “And when I look at it, I’ve missed some important shots, but I’m not going to lose confidence and not take that shot. I’m going to keep having confi­dence and taking that shot, and that’swhatmakesmeme.” 


Coupled with a passion for the game andthe willingness to sacri­ficeindividualsuccessforthesake of the team, it was an easy deci­sion for Irish coach Mike Brey to name Jackson one of the team’s captains. 
“Unselfishness,” Jackson said. “Growing up, I always loved to get myteaminvolved.Idowhateverit takes to win. At the same time, especially when a guy’s hot, why not? If that’s going to help us win, I’d rather take the win than score 50 points and lose. That’s not good.” 
A prolific scorer in high school, Jackson ranks third all time on the Michigan scoring list as the state’stwo-time playeroftheyear. Upon coming to Notre Dame, Jackson said he knew he would have to rely on his ball handling skills and court vision to break into a Big East starting lineup. 
Leadingthe conference with 5.6 assists per game to go along with a top-10 assist-to-turnover ratio, it’s safe to say the senior guard has made the transition success­fully. 
“To do that and take care ofthe ball at the same time, it’s a great thing if it can get us more posses­sions,” Jackson said. “Being ranked up there in the assist-turnover ratio, that’s realgood for me, that’s real good for any point guard.” 
Playing in every contest since his first day at Notre Dame, Jackson had an immediate impact as a freshman. Named to the All-Big East rookie team, Jackson relied on his strengths as a defender before expanding his overall game. 
“Just figuring out ways to stay onthefloor,”Jacksonsaid.“Iwas­n’t a big time, 30-point scorer, but I played well defensively when I was younger, especially sopho­more year. As the years went on, I hadtobecomealittlebitofascor­er, getting more assists, and also defending the best player on the other team.” 
Guarding the likes of Villanova point guard Scottie Reynolds can beadauntingtaskforanydefend­er, let alone one who is 5-11. But whathelacksinsize,Jacksonsaid he makes up for in toughness 
“I hate when anybody scores,” Jacksonsaid.“It’sapassion.Itake pride in my defense.” 
When an injury to senior for­ward Luke Harangody was fol­lowed by losses to Seton Hall, St. John’s and Louisville, many con­sidered the season over. But a string of six consecutive victories, including blowouts against No. 16 Pittsburgh and No. 22 Georgetown, has propelled Notre Dametoa No.6seedinthe NCAA Tournament. 
Jackson, who calls himself the floor general, says he embraces the task of stepping up and lead­ing the team with a limited Harangody in the lineup. 
“I love the challenge,” Jackson said. “We’ve got to pick up the slack for what Gody had.” 
Jackson has answered the call, scoring 22 points against Connecticut in a victory many believed secured a tournament bidfor the Irish. The senior guard was recently named to the Big East All-Tournament team, aver­aging 10.7 points, five assists and playing all 120 minutes in Madison Square Garden. 
“It’s basketball,” Jackson said. “I’ve been playing this for awhile, so you kind of get that feeling, get into that zone where, especially whenyou get amismatch,yougot to have confidence, you got to have swag.” 
Contact Chris Masoud at cmasoud@nd.edu 



Peoples a constant contributor in historic senior class 
freshman year though.”


By MICHAEL BRYAN 
In the basketball program, 
Senior Sports Writer 
Peoples had to make adjust­
ments to 6 a.m. practices. 
While he may not have the “The workouts in the morn-accolades or numbers of class-ing had me, I just couldn’t get mates Luke Harangody and through it for the first two Tory Jackson, senior guard months, and I was getting a lit-Jonathan Peoples has been a tle home sick,” Peoples said. constant contributor to the win-“Being around the older guys ningest class in Notre Dame like Colin Falls, Rob Kurz, history in Big East play. Russell Carter, they helped me 
Peoples has played in every adjust quickly.” conference game for the Irish While Peoples was learning during his four years with the from the experienced upper-team and is very aware of the classmen around him, he was achievement. still seeing time on the court as 
“It means a lot to say that we a reserve, appearing in all 16 did something like that,” Big East contests. Peoples Peoples said. “We’re always played six minutes of time in going to be remembered as the Notre Dame’s appearance in winningest senior class.” the NCAA Tournament, where 
The senior captain is averag-the Irish were upset by ing a career-high 18.3 minutes Winthrop. per game this season but has Peoples minutes and impact played a key role for Irish continued to grow through his coach Mike Brey and Notre sophomore and junior seasons Dame from his freshman year. when he became one of the 

A Bellwood, Ill., native from first players off Brey’s bench. St. Joseph High School, Peoples The guard played in all 33 con-he can shoot the ball lights lot better. I’m more of a defend-return to the Big Dance for the was recruited by Brey after tests sophomore year and out,” Jackson said. “He’s a er now,” Peoples said. third time in four years. averaging 15.2 points per game earned his first career starts great guy and he knows how to Peoples had the best per-“It’s been a battle. I think we his senior year. After the Irish his junior season against play basketball.” formance of his career off the stayed together as a team but extended a scholarship offer, Marquette and Pittsburgh. Peoples was slotted as a bench this season, scoring 23 we lost games by not doing a Peoples quickly accepted. “I finally got the opportunity guard in the starting lineup at points and grabbing six couple little things,” Peoples 
The transition to Notre Dame to start my first college game, the beginning of his senior rebounds in a win over said. “We still have to prove was both exciting and challeng-and I was happy,” Peoples said. campaign but has entered into Providence. something.” ing for Peoples. “I was kind of nervous, but a sixth-man role since the While it looked like Peoples Peoples and the Irish will look 
“It was everything I expected, happy at the same time.” emergence of junior forward and Notre Dame had little shot to prove they can advance to everything I heard about. Evolving into a veteran leader Tim Abromaitis. Still, Peoples of reaching the NCAA their first Sweet 16 of their Beautiful campus, the people by his senior year, Peoples was has played a career-high num-Tournament after a losing skid careers starting against Old here are great,” Peoples said. named a captain by Brey along ber of minutes for his career and the loss of Harangody to Dominion at 12:25 p.m. today. “I didn’t know about parietals, I with classmates Jackson and and is hitting 3-pointers at a injury, the team put together a was kind of heated about that. Harangody. 40.8-percent clip. remarkable six-game winning Contact Michael Bryan at It was a great experience my “He’s smooth, he can score, “My jump shot has gotten a streak to close out the year and mbryan@nd.edu 

Thursday, March 18, 2010 The Observer IRISH INSIDER page 3 


Leaving a legacy 
Luke Harangody returned to lead Notre Dame his senior season and will leave an all-time great 
and physical toughness, both and beat George Mason easily 
By BILL BRINK 

of them, that I think has per-in the first round. Despite 
Senior Staff Writer 

meated through our group. It’s Harangody’s 22 rebounds, No. helped some other guys who 4 seed Washington State took 
On March 3, Luke aren’t at their level of mental down the Irish in the second Harangody became the first-and physical toughness-wise round. ever Irish player to be induct-pick it up at times.” During Harangody’s junior ed into the Purcell Pavilion’s Harangody said he and season, Notre Dame started Ring of Honor. His No. 44 jer-Jackson entered their rookie 12-3 but lost seven straight sey climbed to the rafters, cel-seasons with a “business-like” games and dropped out of con­ebrating four years of awards, attitude, which helped Notre tention for the Tournament. It accolades and success. Dame earn a No. 6 seed in the wasn’t for a lack of production 
“Seeing some of the players 2007 NCAA Tournament. The from Harangody: He led the involved in this University, for Irish lost to No. 11 seed team in scoring for 14 consec­me to be the first one, it was a Winthrop in the first round. utive games and averaged a tremendous Harangody career-best 23.3 points and honor,” the sen-averaged 11.2 11.8 boards per game. ior forward “I realize it’s a once-points per game Harangody scored 30 points said. “That was in-a-lifetime that season in against Kentucky in the NIT a very proud more than 20 quarterfinals and had a dou­
opportunity to be

night for minutes per ble-double in the semifinal loss myself.” with a group like game and to Penn State. One of many. this.” became the first Then came decision time. In Harangody freshman since April 2009, Harangody, then a will graduate as Troy Murphy to junior, declared his eligibility 
Luke Harangody 

Notre Dame’s score in double for the NBA Draft. He didn’t second-leading Irish forward figures in his hire an agent, however, which scorer and first five games. allowed him the opportunity to rebounder. His “[The NCAA change his mind and return to class made the NCAA Tournament freshman year] school. Tournament three out of four was a pretty memorable sea-“I think when you are a kid years and has won more son because it was my first go-shooting around at the park, games than any other class in around with things,” he said. every kid dreams of playing in school history. He was named “It was something I’ll always the NBA and obviously I did the 2008 Big East Player of the remember.” and this has always been a Year, was a second-team All-Harangody, like any athlete, dream of mine,” he said on American in 2008 and 2009 said he believes in off-season April 16, 2009. “So I mean for fortable coming back to school He’s a leader and kind of a and became the first Notre improvement, me, it’s neat to here.” coach for us.” Dame player to be named to so he used the be standing up That senior season didn’t “I think you just try to keep the Big East first-team three summer to hone here and pan out quite like he planned. their confidence up,” times. his game as “This run we made at announcing this At first the Irish played well, Harangody said of his 
As a freshman, Harangody well as his fit-decision today. but once they got into confer-approach with Scott and 
the end of the
said he didn’t anticipate it. ness. The next “This is a new ence play they had two rough Cooley. “At first, the first game 
season, it was pretty 
“No, there’s no way I ever season, he territory for me. stretches, losing three out of against St. John’s after I left, a saw that,” he said. averaged 20.4 special.These guys But, you know, five and four out of seven at couple guys didn’t really know Harangody received four points and 10.6 one of the best various points. Worse still, how to approach it. But it as it 
have played great
varsity letters at Andrean High rebounds per things is that Harangody suf-went on and 
without me.” 
School in Schererville, Ind., game. with the team I fered a bone they got more where he won two conference “It all has to have, the team-bruise in his practice time it and three sectional champi-do with work Luke Harangody mates I have, I knee on Feb. 11 was like night onships. When he got to Notre ethic,” he said. told them this against Seton “He’s been one of the and day.” 
Irish forward 
Dame, he and then-freshman “Every summer, week what I was Hall and missed best greatest to ever Harangody guard Tory Jackson played whether it’s going to do and five games recovered
wear a uniform here. 

early in the season. been working they have been because of the enough to play “We threw them in there, on my body or working on so supportive, not only the injury. At one Flat out.” in Notre Dame’s both of them were key guys as another part of my game, just team’s leader but the guys that point the Irish last regular-sea­freshman,” Irish coach Mike get better every year.” are going to be on the team were 6-8 in the son game, an 
Mike Brey 

Brey said. “We went to the It was that season that next year and, you know, I conference and overtime win on 
Irish coach

NCAA Tournament because earned him conference Player wasn’t very surprised at that the season’s the road against they were ready as freshman of the Year honors. because I know we have some funeral march Marquette. He to be men in this league. They The Irish earned a No. 5 of the best guys in the world was beginning. came off the have an unbelievable mental seed in the Dance that year here, in the country.” Even with a bench for 11 Those supportive teammates serious injury, Harangody minutes and scored five points. played a role in Harangody’s wouldn’t be slowed. He missed He also played in all three of decision to forgo the draft and the next game, against St. Notre Dame’s Big East tourna­return to school to finish his John’s, but convinced everyone ment games, averaging 14 senior year. he would play against points and 24 minutes per 
“It was obvious to see that Louisville on Feb. 17. game. the NBA is a business,” he said “He kind of talked us into he Harangody said after Notre on July 15, 2009. “It’s not like was going to try and play,” Dame’s 50-45 win over being at Notre Dame around Brey said. “He had everybody, Pittsburgh in the quarterfinals the group of guys that we the doctors the trainers, me. that his knee was getting bet-have. I realize it’s a once-in-a-‘I’m going.’ He didn’t bring any ter but not yet 100 percent lifetime opportunity to be with street clothes. ‘I’m playing.’” and that he was proud of what a group like this.” It took Brey to stop him. the team had done in his 
Harangody said he wasn’t “He wasn’t feeling good absence. ready to give up one last go-[after the shoot-around],” Brey “I was curious to see how around with his teammates. said. “I told him after shoot-two games in a row would go 
“It was one more year to be around, ‘Well I’m not playing with my conditioning,” he said. around the guys and get a sen-you so how’s that? Does that “I’m still not there yet. But I ior year,” Harangody said make the decision easier? think every day it’s getting a recently. “It’s something I truly You’re not ready.’” little better. hold special. Now I get a But then a funny thing hap-“This run we made at the chance to watch these guys pened: Notre Dame slowed end of the season, it was pretty succeed in the postseason and down its offense and had suc-special. These guys have also get my degree.” cess. The Irish lost in double played great without me.” 
Harangody said his parents overtime to Louisville, but won He’s back now, ready to add and Brey helped him with the their next three games, includ-NCAA Tournament success to decision. ing two over top-15 opponents, his extraordinary career. 
“[Brey] was very helpful to finish the season. All with-“When he got here he made throughout the whole process. out Harangody. us believe again,” Brey said. He wasn’t like, ‘Come back to “What I’ve been really happy “He was an impact guy. Look school,’” Harangody said. “He with, since he’s been down, at what he’s done throughout gave me options to go out how he’s been helping [fresh-his career. there. He was always open to man forward Jack] Cooley and “He’s been one of the great-me, which I really appreciated. [junior forward Carleton] est to ever wear a uniform In the end, my parents and I Scott,” Brey said. “His voice here. Flat out.” and coach Brey sat down and with those guys during the talked about the whole situa-game, halftime, I could hear Contact Bill Brink at tion and I just felt more com-his voice in the locker room. wbrink@nd.edu 



Thursday, March 18, 2010 The Observer IRISH INSIDER page 4 


Walk-on Andree makes impact leading underclassmen 
By MATT GAMBER 
Sports Writer 
Luke Harangody and Tory Jackson will undoubtedly leave major legacies as four-year starters and the leaders of Notre Dame’s winningest sen­ior class. 
While walk-on senior for­ward Tim Andree won’t leave the same mark on the face of the Irish program, his impact on the Notre Dame program could have long-term effects because of his work this sea­son with freshmen Mike Broghammer, Jack Cooley and Tom 
Andree’s father, Tim, played at Notre Dame under leg­endary coach Digger Phelps from 1979-83. While Andree’s career obviously didn’t follow that of his father, he said he has enjoyed his Notre Dame experiences, especially those with the Irish team. 
“My dad came in here in a totally different situation than I did. He was a McDonald’s high school All-American, I clearly wasn’t,” Andree said. “I’ve just tried to come out and play hard and be my own per­son. It’s sometimes tough living in the shadow of it, but it has­
n’t been too 
hard.” 
Andree’s 

Knight. “I’ve done a lot of stuff in  “I’ve just tried to come out and play hard and  mother also attended Notre Dame, and so  
this offseason with the fresh- be my own person.”  accepting a role with the Irish  
men,” Andree said. “Just a  Tim Andree  program almost a  was no- 
lot of getting  Irish forward  brainer, Andree  
extra  work- said.  
outs with them  “I  grew  up  
and  helping  always wanting  

them get in shape. We haven’t to come to Notre Dame, so really had a true group of when [Irish coach Mike Brey] freshmen in a while like this, told me I had the opportunity and it’s been fun having these to play here, it was tough to guys in. They’re all really good turn down,” he said. players and fun to be around.” Andree said the bonds he 
As a walk-on, Andree knew has formed with his team-his biggest role wouldn’t nec-mates has reaffirmed that essarily be on the court during decision and made his Notre games. His primary role as a Dame experience. Andree lives practice player has taught him off campus with Harangody “to let the little things go,” he and senior guard Ben said. Hansbrough. 
“I know going into every year “When we’re not here [on what the deal is,” Andree said. the court], we’re just friends,” “Basketball’s a fun game, Andree said. “We’re not really we’re all playing the game of thinking about basketball, but basketball because we enjoy it living a normal life.” and have fun with it.” A management consulting major and theology minor, Andree said he is waiting to hear from law schools. While his future almost certainly won’t be in basketball, he said he will miss his experiences with the Irish basketball team, and especially with Brey. 
“Coach Brey treats us all like men. There’s a lot of mutual respect between us,” Andree said. “He’s very funny, he’s got a great personality, and he’s a lot of fun to be around. He’s given me a lot more confi­dence. 
“My high school coaches, they relied more on a negative style of coaching. Here, it’s all about the positives, and he makes you believe in yourself.” 
Contact Matt Gamber at mgamber@nd.edu 


SOFIA.ITURBE | Observer Graphic 




